

McE WAN’S ALE.
RUM.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
R. G. WATKINS & CO,,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
' —FOB— ...
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS 1 and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Over 2710 i.ydro-'Ujstract rs Sold and at wovJf
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried in vest
pocket and blown out to life-size (causes roars, of
laughter), Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket, Book of
Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin and Card
Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard Pish (gives
the definition of your character), The Mafebing Grub (or
nerve-strengthener), and, last of all, that side-splitting
Look and Laugh Glass, Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
Box 3, G.P.0., Haymarket.
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
XNEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-street, SYDNEY.
” c.
Those
suffering
from weak
and sore eyes,
and blight, should \
SINGLETON’S OINTMENT
Never Fails. Restores Eyelashes.
- ALlTfciiil!
~ *
85 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
IE
BROADBENT’S
DIRECT
[AM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS
. ttt i t 1 * 1 m J ~
and full particulars.
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
ELiqw
BULK STORES:
Bulletin Lane,
PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Fresh Supplies Weekly .
dfgd
WMM
fg
HOBART.
[jadley’s Orient Sotei.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Grade).
J, A. TURNER - - Proprietor.
7€
Dr. J. W. GIBBS’
. . Electric Massage Rollers . .
For use on Face and Body.
For NERVOUS HEADACHES,
NEURALGIA and RHEUMATISM
—a specific. Removes Wrinkles.
Gold, 21/- Silver, 16/-
Post Free. Pamphlets Free.
AMERICAN AGENCY COMPANY,
Box 440, G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
PENFOLD’S S.A. WINES
Awarded Gold Medal, Paris, against the Wines of the World.
PIONEER
Ear
LEATHER
B E LTIN G
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2£ S 4 6 6 8 10 12 inch.
-/7 -/9 -/10i 1/- 1/2 1/6 1/11 2/8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 2/11 3/5 4/6 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
IN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever sect) in the
jewellery trade— viz., the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
9ct. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant ; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0. or
M.O. for.ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, loot
gold, filled, Ss. fid. Illustrated catalogues sent free'
SIMS and ELRICK, ;Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only addresg —
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, SviELEQURNE, AUSTRALIA.
FACILE P RIN CEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
.V
KSt
mM
m
PROOF
USE
Head Office
10 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY
S. FREEMAN * SONS L!^
Millers* Maim acturers, and Importers.
BPEOIAT,TIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE' PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. CFLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNYAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
df
A NICE PRESENT.
The New Combination PIN-
CUSHION, THIMBLE & REEL
HOLDER, nickel plated, plush
top, Clamps on to any table
by means of a spring-. Price,
only 2s. ; post free.
Star Novelty Company,
229-231 Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Para(
ST. KILDA.
rrHE Largest.and Best-Appointed Boarding-house
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. Oitv.
i-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
.WHEN buying a KEROSENE GAS STOVE insist
on getting a noiseless
-T»
JUPITER
——— i
The Very Latest
Invention.
Burns Noiselessly,
Without Smell
or Smoke,
Perfectly Safe.
Obtained Ft,rat Prize
wherever exhibited.
Stocked by all Leading Hardware Merchants and
Storekeepers.
Sole Agents' for Australasia, —
Nelson and Robertson,
17 LOFTUS ST., SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vol 23. —No. 1169
[Saturday, July 12, 1902.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE LATEST BOOKS AT
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Allen, A Graduate in Love, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, postage 6d-
Becke, Breachley Blacksheep, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d
Carpenter, Popular Elocutionist, 3s 6d, p. Is.
Gould (Nat), rn Royal Colours, 2s & 2s 6d, p. 6d.
Goldwin Smith, Commonwealth or Empire, Bs, p. 4d.
Kassner, Gold Seeking in South Africa, 4s 6d, postage 6d.
Rose, Napoleon 1., 2 vols., 12s, p. Is 3d.
Williams, The Late Returning, Bs., p. 4d.
White, The Blazed Trail, 2s & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Dowie, Love and His Mask, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Write to us for any Book or Magazine you want.
We are always pleased to answer Enquiries.
CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) &at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
The Bulletin Story Book :
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages; price, 4s. 6d.; postage, 6d.
The Bulletin Reciter :
By Eighty Bulletin Bards. With illus-
trations by “Hop,” N. Lindsay, A. J.
Fischer, F. Leist, D. H. Souter, and H.
McCrae. In handsome cloth, decorated ;
price, ss. ; postage, 4d,
“Che Breaker’s” Uems.
A Complete Collection, with his Correspondence
and a Memoir of his Life
By Frank Rknar.
Every Australian should have this Book.
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
Wholesale from EDWAROS, DUNLOP & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE.
Retail from all Booksellers, and Post-Free from
“ The Bulletin ” Office Is. Id.
For the LUHTOS, tire THROAT, the VOICE.
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
a
A . The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
I>. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
. . Contain NO cocaine or other pomonontt dray
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, in Tins, 1s 6d ; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland—post
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney j)epot i 5 and * QUEEN S PEACE, and PELTON, GEIMWADE & CO.,
Melbourne, Agents.
THE RED PAGE.
Last Day -a Sub-editor’s
Dream.
f p I TE siab-editor sat back in his chair in the
1 omee of the great daily, in Collins-street,
and yawned. It was nearly two o’clock.
There was no war, no Australian Eleven ;
and at two the paper would go to press, and he
would be free unless some great tragedy necessi-
tated a second edition. There was a ring of the
telephone bell.
Eli ? A 1 iat’s that?” he asked, reaching for
some copy-paper with his disengaged hand. ‘ ‘ Mr.
Wragge reports the appearance of a strange aerial
disturbance, called ‘ Wigga,’ from the north-east—
Curse Mr. Wragge and ‘Wigga.’” The sub-editor
started to write “ Add weather” on another slip,
of paper. He was not half-through before the
bell rang again.
He grabbed the receiver savagely. “What is
it now ?—Wragge states that ‘ Wigga ’ is unique
in the history of meteorology. It has assumed the
appearance of a ball of fire, and is surrounded
with rainbow lights, while there is a cloud of the
shape of a halo floating over the top. He con-
siders that the accumulations of electricity in the
polar regions—Oh, never mind that technical
stuff. Is there any prospect of it breaking up the
drought? What? Nothing about the drought.
Then, that’ll do. Wove got enough blue and
pink lights for two o’clock in the morning.”
The sub-editor returned to the slip he had com-
menced to write, when the man in charge of the
private wire to Sydney burst into the room:
“ We’ve just got a wire through that Sydney is
scared out of its wits. They say the sky’s caught
fire and the whole city’s alarmed.”
“ Ask them what brand they’re drinking over
there,” said the sub-editor, testily.
The telephone - bell rang. The cable-man,
anxious to give the sub. a chance of finishing the
weather-paragraph, crossed to the instrument.
“Who’s speaking? Fire brigade. Yes, what’s
the matter ?—Big fire showing up from the direc-
tion of Brunswick. Stein has turned out four
steamers, seven hose-carts, one ladder-carriage,
and 40 men. Thanks.”
He sat down to write a few lines when young
Baxter, the roundsman, sauntered in with a care-
ful effort to simulate nonchalance. “ Big fire
on,” said Baxter, carelessly. “All Brunswick
must be burning. Have to‘get a second edition
"Jut.” He drifted away for a cab.
The sub-editor yawned again, and walked to the
front of the building and gazed northward. “ Good
Lord ! ” the cable-editor heard him cry, and rushed
towards him. The sub-editor was standing in a
flood of scarlet light—just like Walter Baker in
the last tableau of the last act but one, thought
the cable-editor. “ Why, half Melbourne’s on
fire ! ” they cried together.
“ Hello !” yelled the sub-editor to the printing-
room, “send up three or four messengers.” The
boys were soon rushing out, to rouse-up the staff.
The telephone-bell rang. “Who’s speaking?
Eh ! Baxter. Well ? Can’t find the fire ! What on
earth do you mean ? The whole place is ablaze !
What ? You’re speaking from the fire-alarm, and
the brigade can’t locate it. Eh ! what’s that ? Up
in the air. Come back to the office at once. ”
He hung-up the receiver, and commented
sternly : “That’s too bad. And Baxter, too. The
last man I’d have thought it of. He must have
got drunk mighty quick.”
Mr. Thomson, the literary genius of the office,
who was ready to write, impassioned poetry or
pathetic prose on any subject he was turned-on
to, came in, looking very sleepy and bad-tem-
pered. “Don’t you think an Aurora Borealis
would keep till to-morrow ?” he demanded.
Somebody just then blew a cornet.
“What’s that?” cried the cable-man. “The
war’s over. Isn’t it enough to be kept here out
of bed without some damn-foolish German Band
coming round serenading us?”
The cornet blared again loudly. ' Baxter came
into the office, wearing a grin—the grin he always
used when he had exclusive information.
“I’m on to a big scoop,” he said, with a pain-
fully perceptible effort to appear unconcerned.
“ It’s the Last Day. That’s Gabriel’s Trump ! ”
Mr. Smith jumped to his-feet. “What the
devil ”
“ Straight wire ! ” nodded Baxter. “ I got on
to the game through Stein. They were puzzled
up at the central fire-station about this blaze, and
I went up to the top of the tower with him. He
had a look through, their telescope, but he couldn’t
make anything out of it. Then I got hold of the
glass, and, as luck would have it, I was just
' going to give it up when a bit of the cloud cleared
away, and there I saw Gabriel and Michael—'the
chap with the flaming sword—and all the rest of
that crowd, in a chariot.”
Mr. Smith looked at the cable-man meaningly.
“ Look here, Baxter, I did you a wrong early in
the night, and I’ll apologise for it, but I think
you’ve been working a trifle hard lately. You
just go home and have a rest. We’ll look after
this phenomenon all right. I’ll get. Thomson
here to go to Barrachi and find out all about it.”
Baxter lost all his nonchalance. “Go home ! ”
he yelled indignantly, “and miss the best scoop
since the Collingwood mui'der ! I reckon Gabriel
ought to land somewhere about the Domain in ten
minutes’ time. Let Billy here ” —nodding towards
Thomson — “turn off a column of his poetic slush
about incense-breathing morn, with a dash of fer-
vent pietv in it. You know how to pitch it,
Biljsy.”
; /y’AMy oath !” assented Thomson, whose pathetic
. midroyerent copy about the Simultaneous Mis-
sibu was understood to have almost converted the
preanlibbi themselves.
continued the roundsman, “let me
"get out to the Domain. I’ll get hold of Gabriel,
and if I don’t get a red-hot column-and-a-half
interview out of him you can put me on to the
State Parliamentary staff. ”
All Smith’s sleepiness had gone. He was con-
sidering how to get the best work out of Baxter
without letting him see that he regarded him as
suffering from sudden religious mania. “Very
well, Baxter,” he said at last, “you go down
there, and if you can’t see anything of the arch-
angel go on to the Observatory and get some-
thing out of Baracchi. Take Wilson with you.
He ought to be able to help you.” Wilson was
the accredited humorist of the office, and could
make a funny paragraph out of anything or
nothing.
Thomson retired to his room, and smarted to
turn out three-quarters of a column of introduc-'
tjon, glistening with purple and gold, with blanks
here and there to be subsequently filled-in, accord-
ing as the strange visitation should prove a mere
storm, an earthquake, an Aurora, or a heavenly
visit.
The telephone-bell rang. Mr. Smith grabbed
the receiver spasmodically. ‘‘Who,-A speaking?
Wilson! Yes. What?—lt is the Angel Gabriel.
Well I’m damned ! ”
The cable-editor looked-up almost pale. He
was thinking of those war-messages he had fixed
up. “So are we all, I’m afraid,” he said, rue-
fully.
The sub-editor’s surprise was only momentary.
Sub-editors have no leisure to be surprised for long.
“ Right! ”he cried along the wire. “ Get all the
stuff you can ; I’ll round-up the rest of the staff
at once.” “ Thomson,” he yelled, “ make that
stuff of yours fit the angel-racket, and then run
out to Archbishop Carr and get all you can out of
him.”
He started to write out another “ bill. ”
RESURRECTION.
SENSATION IN THE CITY.
ARRIVAL OF THE ARCHANGEL
GABRIEL.
In five minutes a messenger was sent to the
house of every reporter on the staff—the Chief of
Staff alone excepted. There was a standing-rale
in the office that he should not be awakened
though the Heavens fell. A Resurrection didn’t
quite justify such an extreme step,
The sub-editor seized the duty-book to make it
up for the special editions to be brought out at
intervals during the day :
General arrangements for Day of Judgment,
SCOI. ; Mr. Whaife.
Movements of, Archangel and staff, leol.; Mr.
Quigley.
Receptions, social, etc., Icol. ; Miss Gillings.
Description of costumes of visitors, also inter-
views with ladies (if any), lcol. : Miss
Gillings.
Scene in tne city, lcol, ; Mr. Webster.
Interview Arch. Michael re latest military tactics,
; Mr. Whelan.
Police arrangements ; Mr. Baxter,
Wilson entered with a column of copy. “There’s
the first half of Baxter’s interview to go on with,
and a bit of what I picked up from the others.”
“How did you find them?” asked the cable-
man as Mr. Smith rushed his eyes over the
copy.
“ Tip-top. They’re just splendid fellows, all
of them. Of course Michael and Gabriel have got
to be a bit offish through their positions, but I’ll
guarantee if you were to get them after hours
they’d be all-right company. As to Azrael, I
don’t think I ever met a decenter chap. Big,
muscular, brown-skinned fellow, with black wings.
He’s awfully interested in magazine-rifles and the
bubonic-plague. The trouble about them all is
that they’re too approachable. If the other
people get on to them they’ll tell everything
we’ve got. But I think Baxter’ll look after them
all-nght. I left him with them in the Commercial-
f’ravellers Club. He was filling in their nomina-
tions when I left.”
- Wi.son was running to the reporters’ room, when
the subeditor called: “Wilson! mind you treat
the sub ect,respectfully. None of your sarcastic
comic stuff.”
Wilson's face fell a trifle. “All right, but
there were one or two jolly funny things ”
“Leave those funny things out,” ordered the
sub. ; “we’ll have all the churches in Melb. on
our track if we start chucking-off at the Heavenly-
Host.”
Wi Ison retired as Thomson came i n with a History
of the Christian Religion condensed into a column,
and a forecast of the probable proceedings of the
■visitor's, faked from Revelation,
The sub-editor had passed the last slip, when
Baxter appeared. “ Got’em done,” he drawled,
“ Took two cab-loads out to The Den. They’ll be
safe for a few hours at anyrate. Here you are,
the rest of Gabriel’s interview. I put it in the
first person, with Michael chipping in here and
there. I’ve got the strength of his visit. It’s the
Resurrection, all-right, and he reached to make
an entry in the duty-book— “ the Sea gives up its
Dead at lialf-past-ten to-morrow morning.”
“ The shipping-man can attend to that, ” re-
marked the sub-editor. “So the whole thing’ll
be to-morrow?”
“It starts to-morrow,” corrected Baxter—
“ they don’t expect to get it through for a good
time. There’ll be a heap of work about it.”
The last copy went to the linotypes; the formes
were locked, and the second edition went to press
at 8 a.m. Room had to be found for the new
matter, and news was sacrificed mercilessly.
Even a meeting at Kyabram and a letter from a
Flinders-lane merchant were thrust among the
over-matter.
* » * *
Every hour during the day editions were
brought-out. as the .reporters came in with the
latest developments. Business was suspended in
the city. The Stock Exchange held a public
meeting, at which the members waved TTnion-
Jacks, while G. D. Meudell and Sam Gillott and
Purves, K.C.. made loyal speeches. Somebody
tried to start “Mafficking,” but the attempt was
a failure. There were plenty of people about,
but few were in high spirits. The bars were
filled, but the drunks were lachrymose, and con-
fessed past misdeeds to members of the Rats’
Push' who stole their watches as they wept.
It was a great but a sad day, and it provided
splendid copy. The tired Smith shut-down on
the first edition at 2 o’clock next morning with
another final scoop, for Baxter brought in a piece
of copy. “ I got Azrael down at the Friendly
Gardens this afternoon, and he had a go against
Bill Martin, and won, wings-down. Turned-off a
mile in 1.14 dead.”
Next day was the most important of all, and
the duty-book provided for a column introduc-
tion by the poetic Thomson, the Scene at the
Cemetery, the Drafting of the Sheep and the Goats
at the Flemington cattle-yards, with a special
service of messengers to bring news of any sensa-
tional developments. There was an interview
with J. C. Williamson on the Affair from a
Spectacular point of view, and the views of a
leading drapery-man on the Angelic Costumes: he
considered that some valuable hints had been
given for the new season’s modes.
Senator M‘Gregor also had tabled a question as
to whether the Heavenly visitors had parsed the
education-test of the Immigration lie d.rmiio«
Act.
At 10 a.m. a messenger came post-haste from
Fle.uington stock-yards with ,-i slip from Baxter,
headed: “ Add S' u*ep and Goats. Immense Sen-
sation. Rev. Dr, B among the Goats ! ”
■fi *; * *
The issue was on the streets, and Collins-strejet
was in a ferment as the crowds scanned the official
lists. So far, there were only about two inches of
sheep all told, while the' three columns of goats
included a score of the best-respected and most
prosperous business-men in the city. The com-
mercial editor started a paragraph which de-
scribed the feeling as one of “vague unrest.” The
religious-reporter rushed.in with the news that a
special Sederunt of the Presbyterian Assem-
bly had been called, and before four o’clock
Thomson entered with a column of fine descriptive
matter, introducing a series of vituperative speeches
in the best style of that body, and ending with the
unanimous acceptance of a resolution viewing with
grave alarm and expressing strong condemnation
of the action of the Heavenly Host in their palp-
able mistakes as to the character of God-fearing
men and good subscribers to the church.
* * * *
Wilson’s comic paragraphs about the Behaviour
of the Condemned Souls failed to arrive. The sub-
editor was swearing when B ixter came mournfully
in. “ They’ve potted Joe Wilson !” he cried.
“ What! ” yelled the sub-editor.
“They’ve potted Joe,” repeated Baxter. “He
was sitting on the rails of the yai'd watching the
convicted come through, and writing-up at top-
speed, when Azrael came along. ‘You’re next! ’
he said.”
‘ ‘ Hid he show them his press-pass ? ” asked
Mr. Smith.
“Of course ! ” said Baxter; “but Azrael
wouldn’t stand it. He was very decent about it,
though. ‘ Very sorry, Mr. Wilson,’ he said, ‘ but
duty’s duty.’ Then they yanked him off and
passed him among the Goats inside of five
minutes.”
“ Did you get bis copy?” asked the sub-editor,
his professional instincts rising to the top.
“Rather,” replied Baxter. “He chucked it to
me as he went. Good stuff it is, too.”
As the sub-editor ran his eye over the last
authentic humor of Joseph Wilson, there was a
clatter on the landing. A flush of light swelled-in
through the doorway, and the janitor was heard
in violent altercation with someone, who was deter-
mined upon defying the rule forbidding the ad-
mittance of all strangers. Then the janitor’s body
was heard bumping down the stairs, and the sub-
editor, glancing up from his copy, saw the Angel
of Death standing before him.
“ Well,” he said, “ Have you come to apologise?
I think it’s up-to you. You’ve collared one of my
best reporters, and it was no thanks to you that
we weren’t ‘left ’ over his stuff.”
“Mr. Smith,” announced Azrael, gravely; “it
is time for you to go.”
» * * *
At this point the sub-editor stirred, rubbed his
eyes, and saw his breakfast-tray. It was 10.30
Sunday morning, and the church-bells were
ringing.
“That was funny. I suppose now I ought to
start to go to church. But one must get some
sleep.”
And he turned-over, and let the breakfast wait
for another hour, and going to church for the
millennium, when newspaper-men won’t have to
work 70 hours a week.
D.W.
home correspondents
G.P. (Fiji) : Read Mark Twain, Max Adeler, Bill Nye,
Bret Harte ; they ought to give you "enough material.
“ Kiwi,” from Maoriland : Some weeks ago I noticed a
contribution from “ Quilp N.” to the effect that there was
no law in this country extending the benefits of copyright
to books or to any literary work produced here. This is
not an uncommon impression, probably because our Fine
Arts Copyright Acts of 1877 and 1879 contain no reference
to books or to literary productions of any kind, save
dramatic works. But the impression is quite wrong, all
the same. The International Copyright (Imperial) Act of
1886 is in force throughout all Bri'tish possessions, unless
expressly negatived by local, legislatures. That statute
was passed by the Imperial Parliament as the result of
the great International Copyright Conference held at
Berne in 1885, the result of which Was that the following
countries entered the “ Copyright Union ” : Britain (in-
cluding the British Empire), Belgium, France,
Germany, Italy, Spain, Switzerland, Luxemburg,.
Monaco, Tunis, and Hayti. Austria and Hungary
have a separate Convention on similar lines, and
it applies to the United Kingdom, and all the
British possessions except India, Canada, Cape Colony,
New South Wales and Tasmatiia. The practical effect of
the Imperial Statute of 1886 is that any literary or artistic
work first produced in a British possession has the full
benefit of the English law of copyright in all respects, as
if it were first produced in the United Kingdom. It
follows, therefore, that a book produced in any Of the
Australian States has the same protection throughout
British territory as if produced in England, and likewise
the full benefit of the copyright law of all countries in the
union ; and the privileges are, of course, reciprocal But
it is expressly provided that the extent of the protection
is determined by the law of each country. Thus, an
author producing a book in Australia, desiring to ascertain
the extent of his rights in Switzerland, would require to
learn the Swiss Copyright Law, and he would then know
the extent of the benefit he enjoyed there by virtue of
the Act of 1886,. The United States are not included in the
Copyright Union. Copyright is in U.S.A. regulated by
the Chase Act, which is very illiberal -to authors other
than Americans.
Christopher Crisp (Vic,): Your “Red Page” man, in
issue of 14/6/’O2, makes the mistake which The Bulletin
makes—namely, of Supposing that Democracy, or demo-
cratic ideas and government, must necessarily be “inde-
pendent” of priest and king. They should no more be
“ independent ” of priest and king in the sense of anti-
thesis (which is what your writers always mean) than a
man should be independent of his boots. Priests and
kings should be made to work for Democracy. Priests
are not essential, kings are, to that end. Priests are
valuable as moral police.and as emotional workers, after
the manner (in the latter capacity) of court jesters, or
bards of the old pre-printing days. Kings are more than
ever requisite as the mundane (not Divine right) aegis
under which Democracy has permanency and com-
prehensiveness of action, with complete fluidity of
method. It is no use citing past Democracies as
guides to the present one. You’ cannot reproduce
their environment. The environment of humanity now
is planetary ; it used to be continental at most, and
mostly regional, Limited to a day’s march “ Circum-
stance ” was an unspiritual god in those days in a topo-
graphical sense Chiefly. Now, it is not. Imperialism is
liecess i lily the sociological atmosphere of our civilisa-
tion. Democracy must use Imperialism as its mode of
motion, otherwise it dissipates into Anarchy or becomes
crushed under a Despotism. The Bulletin' did splendid
work for Imperialism by helping to create the Common-
wealth of Australia. But for The Bulletin, N.S.W. and
Queensland would have stood out of the Federation' The
Bulletin should now enlarge its horizon, as it did then
and follow the ideal of Imperial State Socialism' No
other system of government can possibly enshrine Demo-
cracy. There is not a king, nor a noble', nor a bit of qold
lace too much in this world. They are all wanted as the
arteries and muscles of Democracy.
[ln answer to which—it depends on one’s ideal of “ de-
mocracy.” A socialistic government, having all possible
tenderness for the welfare of its people, can .exist with
priest rule and king rale (e.g., Peru, under the
Incas). But that’s not democracy in the most gene-
ral acceptation of the term. True democracy, we
take id, repudiates all presumptions of kings, nobles
sacerdotal rulers, to overlordship, and must repudiate
them from the alpha, of a C.M.U. to the omega of a
divinely consecrated king. That a king is necessary to
national safety, or to modern "development, is a claim
which blinks at many estab'isbe l facts—the big American
republic, the little Swiss republic, the great French
republic, now justemerging triumphant from the military-
clerical conspiracy to force it back into the slough of
monarchism.]
“Marcus Ward,” by J. H. Maiden and the
Sydney Morning Herald is made the Author of'
the introduction to Gordon’s poems—as good a bit
of Australian prose as ever was written,
&
The struggle for a crust in English magazine*
dom ! Pearson’s bundle of inartistic shoddy. The
Royal , in a competition, offers as first prize five
shillings a day for life with an added. £lOO for
consolation prizes. The competition consists of
the usual silly agony of forming names of towns
from pictorial representations. The competition
will run through three or four numbers, and each
“ try ” necessitates having a copy of each.
J*
“Rusticus,” in London Daily Chbonicle, sug-
Sests that Governors for Australia, and other
ependencies of Britain, should be , chosen from
the ranks of men of letters instead of men of titles
—an 'idea the merit of which is obscured by the
fact that the Governors would be almost certainly
chosen from the Conan Doyles and Hall Caijnes,
rather than the Spencers and Merediths.
J* .
“Jef”: Be “Henry V.” (B. 28/6/’O2). When I
was attending a R. C. college, this play was pre-
scribed for the Junior Exam., but the books were
given out with all the “ obnoxious ” passages care-
fully obliterated with ink. The remnant of the
play was drilled for 12 long months into the pupils;
but, at the exam., three out of the five questions
came from the “ expurgated part,’’ and there were
no “ passes ”in English from that college ! Fact.
Zangwill, in a recent review article, claims that
Jews, while they “succeed as individuals,_ fail
miserably as a people.” Only a “minpte
minority ” obtain that affluence which is asso-
ciated in the popular mind with all Jews. “No
people in the world possess so many fantastic
ne’er-do-wells as. this nation mythically synonym-
ous with success.”
PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If bl.vthe ballade you fain would write,
To four good lines add twenty-four,
Three eight-lined stanzas, burnished bright,
And add for envoi four lines more.
Eight feet are best; use half-a-score
If Pegasus is slow of wing—
But forty- feet won’t make,him soar
Unless a song you have to Sing.
The stock of rhymes will n -t affright:
You need but three, O Troubadour !
Throughout each stanza you indite
The same rhyme-sounds fall p’e’r and o’er.
But do not close the Muse’s door,
And on your head disaster bring,
By using rhyme-words used before—
Unless a song you have to sing.
.Rhyme-order? True, we cannot quite
The lettered formula lgisoie :
“ A. 8., A. B. throughout the flight
Precedes B. C., B. C., encore,”
(Encore for envoi) but deplore
The absence of poetic ring
In sawn-off symbols ; they but bore—
Unless a song you have to sing !
Envoi.
Friend, in your warm Art’s inmost core
Ensconce the lesson this may bring,
Swear you no fealty to its lore—
Unless a song you have to sing.
JOHN DRAYMAN.


WOOL
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
•WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN,
SYDNEY.
ITDOUCALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUSDIP.
M‘DOTJGA.LL BROS., 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
AGENTS:
N.Z. L. & M.A. Co., Ltd., Australia and New Zealand : Strachan, Cheedle & Co., Adelaide; J. B. Curran, Hobart.
sms
Kangaroo,
Wallaby,
Rabbit,
Opossum.
Send to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY,
and so obtain utmost possible prices.
SPECIAL WOTICB.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & COMPANY Ltd.
SYOKTEY.
Compare our Reduced Produce Charges
with those of
other Brokers.
Our Reduced Charges.
Old Charges.
4 per cent.
4 per cent.
2J per cent.
4 per cent.
5 per cent.
5 per cent.
5 per cent. (Minimum 5s per ton)
HIDES
SHEEPSKINS
TALLOW (£lOO and over)
TALLOW (under £100)
HAIR, HORNS, BONES, &C.
FURRED SKINS
BARK
3 per cent.
3 per cent.
2 per cent.
3 per cent.
4 per cent.
3J per cent.
4 per cent. (Minimum 4s per ton)
While thus selling' Produce at these unprecedently Low Rates, we desire to emphasise the fact that we are
fully maintaining' the high efficiency of our Produce Department, and Consignors can therefore, when entrust-
ing their produce to us, rely on securing results that will favorably compare with those obtained by sending
elsewhere. Special Terms offered to Agents influencing business. Correspondence invited. All Proceeds
absolutely safeguarded by our Trust Account system. GEORGE MAIDEN, Manager.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Officess tt PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY, Stores; PYRMONT.
Sole Charge s 3 Per Cent, to the Growers,
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
The Bulletin Story Book.
A Handsome Cloth-bound Volume of over 300 pages. The best
collection of Short Stories and Literary Sketches yet produced in
Australia. Price, 4s. 6d. Wholesale : Edwards, Dunlop and Co.
WONDERFUL VALUE IN CIGARS
SINGLE BOX AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
GUARANTEE: EVERY CIGAR SOUND AND IN PERFECT CONDITION.
Goods Exchanged or Money Returned.
CIGARS
ROMA QUEENS
LA PAROLA, Reliable Smoke
HIGH LIFE MENDOZAS
NIMROD REIN A VICTORIA
LA SPECIAL, from Choicest Leaf
SANTIAGO LA FLOR, Fine Quality
“LEOLA,” Borneo, Mild Smoking’
“ EL RIVAL,” Borneo, Full Flavor
HEAVY WEIGHTS (P. De Mendoza) ..
“PERLA” BOUQUET ..
“EL MUNDO ” (Rothschilds) ..
“ MENDOZA ” (Rothschilds) ..
“ PERLA ” (Rothschilds)
“MINERVA” No. 1 MANILA ..
“WINDSOR LADY” (Manila Regalia) ..
“PERLA MINERVA,” MANILA, Fine Quality
FLOR DE NAVES (Havana Reina)
HENRY CLAY (Havana Couchas, Extra)
DELIVERED FREE OF DUTY AND CHARGES;
SEND FOB
OUR
LIST
OF
C.E.B.
BRIAR
PIPES
I
MICK SIMMONS,
TOBACCO MERCHANT and IMPORTER,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
Tobacconists and Storekeepers may obtain Wholesale List on application.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
“X'O DEFY COMPJEJTITIOKT.
WINES
The Bex I Brands Only of
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTUKKKS OF MJ MORAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY
MAGIC
A Wave
from the
of the Magician’s Wand! The Enchanted Prince is released
spell cast upon him by the malignant witch. He resumes his
glorious birthright. A Man again, and a Prince.
It is a pretty allegory. We, however, enter the Twentieth Century with minds free from old superstitions.
MAGIC is Dead! SCIENCE Reigns Supreme I
Science, with cleanly-chiselled features, penetrating vision, emotionless, scrutinises each of life’s problems, and proudly
and firmly demands to know the cause of every effect.
In ancient days the Wonderful Curative Properties of .
WARNER’S SAFE CURE
would have been looked upon as magical. Unerring science now insists upon the effect being traced to its primary
cause, and asks, “Why does Warner’S Safe Cure cure so many diseases of seemingly diverse origin?” It is
demonstrated that Warner’s Safe Cure does ACTUALLY CURE such diseases as . .
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Backache
Sciatica
Blood Disorders
Anaemia
Indigestion
Biliousness
Sick Headache
General Debility
Gravel r
Bladder Troubles
Bright’s Disease.
But WHY does this medicine act in this manner ? SCIENCE HERSELE SUPPLIES THE ANSWER, as, after searching
examination, she only can :
“ WARMER’S SAFE CURE Cures all these Diseases
BECAUSE they one and all arise from an impaired action of the KIDNEYS and LIVER. The cause of each is the same.
Urinary and Biliary Poisons, which healthy Kidneys and Liver normally extract from the blood and expel from the body, are
suffered to remain in the system.”
WARN CIVS SAFC CURC, by restoring the Kidney’s and Liver to health, renews the power of those vital organs and
enables them to properly perform their natural functions. All Urinary and Biliary Poisons are then duly removed from the
blood, and diseases caused by the presence of such poisons, as a matter of course, cease to exist.


RATS AND MICE.
If a tablet of Vinolia Soap be
put in a cage of hungry rats
and mice they will eat it, be-
cause it is made from edible
fats and is harmless, while
they will shun other soaps.
On ships they eat it whenever
they can get at it.
KING
MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
gd
Noiseless Uuderwater . .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
'H'IOH.M STHT- STOTTT.MOO Wtf A 'T'T t\to—sNl n M=l r*MiM ng , mum
C O JE3 R. UVE O T T
J. F.
&
C O 3VE F A.KTY,
Telephone 2371.
37 MARKET STREET, SYXDKTEY.
GENERAL
ELECTRIC
COMPANY.
Capital - - - £5,250,000.
Manufactures the Highest Grade of
Electrical Machinery.
THEIR NAME IS A GUARANTEE.
Dynamos, Engines and Motors up to 250 H.P. in Stock.
Lighting and Power Plants for Immediate Delivery.
Arc and Incandescent Lamps and Supplies of ail kinds.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELEGTRIG GO.,
Electrical Engineers and Contractors,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, Melbourne and Sydney.
PAINTERS’ COLIC:
VALUABLE TO THE TRADE
The Case of
Mr. F. DAVISON.
(by our reporter.)
The annual exhibitions of pictures painted
by local artists receive more appr ciaiion
from the public every year. The gene-
rous support accorded to such ex-
hibits serves as a graceful acknow-
ledgement of the advancement made by
students. The persistent and painstak-
ing efforts of our painters have an educa-
tional effect up m their numerous admirers,
who are agreeably made familiar with de-
pictions of typical Australian life and
scenery. Another division of painters to
whom appreciative recognition is due are
those who embellish and decorate our
private residences and business establish-
ments. Mr. Francis Davison, of No. 27
NVyndham-street, Alexandria, belongs to
this class, in connection with which he bad
something to say of an interesting charac-
ter :
“ I think,” said Mr. Davison, “ that the
unhealthy materials used in my trade had
something to do with giving me years of
suffering. Painters are especially liable to
colic, which inflicts the most indescribable
pains in the bowels. My cause of trouble
was principally in the side ; at least, it was
there I was attacked first. The agony was
so great that I used to break out in a state
of perspiration through sheer excess of pain.
0. ten when walking down the street I was
suddenly seized with such dreadful parox-
ysms, which completely doubled me up,
making it impossible for me to walk for
several minutes.”
“ How long were you thus afflicted?”
“ For fully five years I did not know
what it was to be free from pain, which
afterwards appeared in the stomach with
increased violence. Indeed, the piercing
shafts of torture which a sailed that region
made me moan with pain, from which I
hardly ever experienced a respite. I
rapidly became so exhausted and worn out
that my friends were anxious about my
condition, and my family were in great dis-
tress whenever they beard me groaning. A
little relief was obtained through the ap-
plication ■ f hot fomentations and various
kinds of poultices ; but the ease only lasted
about a minute, and then I could feel the
pains gradual y coming back, until its full
force burst upon me again with increased
severity, and prostrated me with its
violence. I "was often incapable of going
to work, and even when 1 did go 1 was
afraid to undertake the perilous positions
which painters have sometimes to occupy.
I avoided as much as possible ascending
ladders, in case of a sudden seizure of my
trouble rendering me powerless to hang
on.”
“ You appear to have had a bad time ? ”
“ Yes, I had There was a feeling of un-
certainty and anxiety in my mind every
morning as to what the day would bring
forth. Quite unaccountably, I could not
discard from my'thoughts the notion that a
dreadful accident, or some impending evil,
was in store for me.”
“ Perhaps you are naturally nervous ? ”
“No ; quite the reverse. Before my
sickness came on I did not know whrt fear
or nervousness were. I could go out in the
dead of night and confront any danger with-
out the least hesitation. But now my
nerves were completely shattered. I was
afraid of my own shadow. Naturally
enough 1 sought medical advice, a doctor
visiting' and prescribing f .r me regularly.
This occurred when I was living in Qu ens-
land, and I don’t mind telling you that by
this time I was reduced t • a skelo on
through my inability to eat, which I very
seldom did. I had no appetite whatever •
but, knowing that if I did not eat a little
to keep body and soul together I would
soon die of starvation, I used to try and
brace myself up when meal times came
round, and take my seat at the table.
Directlv the food was placed I was
overcome with a v-smbk ' : -kncsB ui the
stomach. Hurriedly vacating my chair, I
used to go outside, where continual retch-
ing brought on insuffaable headaches and
giddiness By way of variety my stomach
occasionally wanted food. I felt as though
I could really enjoy a little, but a few
minutes after swallowing anything I had
severe pains in the chest, and swelling, be-
sides acute sensations under my shoulders,
tb was a very rate thing to have a night’s
sleep, although I went bo bed every evening
feeling quite exhausted and done up. I
was accustomed to rise in the morning with
a nasty taste in the mouth, after turning
restlessly about nearly all night, with my
limbs aching with intense weariness, anil
the pains in my side still gnawing away,
As though to a‘dd their quota to the evils I
have already mentioned, my throat was
parched and dry, and constipation was
another trouble. A feeling o’ drowsiness
never left me, and, combined with my
general weakness, I appeared like a man
half dead. The prospect of getting througli
a day’s work in this condition was not a
very bright one, and many a time I had to
come home unable to continue my work. I
really thought I was done for.”
“ What gave you that impression ? ”
“ Because my doctor could not cure me.
I then came to New South Wales, and en-
gaged another doctor, under whose care I
remained with the same unsatisfactory Je-
suits till my hopes were exhausted. The
med cines prescribed by both doctois were
utterly useless in every respect.”
“ Did you consult a third doctor ? ”
“No; I managed without. One of my
mates, who had suffered as I was suffering,
told me he was cured by Clements Tonic,
even when his medical adviser had failed.
That hint was good enough for me. I
bought some Clements Tonic, and when I
had taken three bottles I felt quite a
different man. My pa ; ns in the side were
much easier, and all the other ailments had
been quite cured. Appetite, sleep, an 1
strength returned in a short time, and de-
spondency gave way to cheerfulness. Three
more bottles of Clements Tonic cured me in
every detail, and I have not been troubled
with my old sickness since, and I give you
my authority to publish these remarks
simply out of gratitude, for I trust a relation
of my sufferings and cure may help other
poor sufferers on the way to recovery.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, I'rakcis Davison, of 27 Wyndham-street, Alex-
andria, in the State of New South Wales, Common-
wealth of Australia, do solemnly a->d sincerely de-
clare that I have carefully read the annexed
document, consisting of three folios, and con-
secutively numbered from one to three, and that it
contains and is a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains
my full permission to publish in any way my state-
ments—which I give voluntarily, without receiv-
ino- any payment; and 1 mike this solemn declara-
tion conscientiously believing the same to be true,
and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act,
1900.
Subscribed and declared at Alexandria, this fourth
day of April, one thousand nine hundred and two,
before me,
W. B. CARTER, J.P.
PRIZE MEDAL DRESSING.
HAUTHAWAY’S
PEERLESS GLOSS
cakes first prize medals at Boston, Vienna, London, Phila-
delphia, Melbourne, and all other leading cities, for pro-
ducing the finest possible polish, and absolute freedom
from all substances injurious to the leather.
It is the favorite dressing of the world for
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
shoes, as it is easily applied, retains its brilliancy, and will
not rub off and soil garments. Try it once and you will
use it always. Sold nearly everywhere. Made only by
C. L. nAUTMAWAY £. S©N&,
BOSTON, MASS.
U. S. A.
mmmmhmmmmmm
Just
Published.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Harry Morant,.
His Ventures
and Verses.
Price 11
Post
Free.
Y
By FRANK RENAR.
V
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney..


puildlng up after
Hemorrhage
rpjje happiest results attended the
use of Scott’s Emulsion
jjtirses naturally have more extended
pportunities of watching cases than
logicians. When a nurse has a story to
Ly, therefore, it is based on observations
a de hour by hour. And with nurses the
p o te of triumph is very pleasant when the
cgh t is won : as for example :
“ John Street, Kilmallock,
“ Co. Limerick, Ireland.
“January 17th, 1901.
« Pear Sirs, —I had a little patient, aged
g ve years, who suffered from a very delicate
c hest and lung disease, and was subject to
kem orr h a g e °f the lungs, accompanied by a
bad cough. I recommended your valuable
gcott’s Emulsion for her, and I am pleased
to say the happiest results have attended its
use- My little patient has now become a
otrong 0 trong and healthy child, and her lungs are
quite healed. The little one took the
gmulsion well from the first, her appetite
SJ
&
NURSE KATHLEEN GIBSON.
iFrom a photograph.)
quickly improved, and the ultimate results
have given the greatest satisfaction. I con-i
sider Scott's Emulsion invaluable for delicate
children, and always feel pleasure in recom-
mending it, knowing that good results are
certain to follow its use. Very many of my
patients have taken Scott’s Emulsion upon
my recommendation, and the results are
invariably satisfactory.
“ Yours sincerely,
“ (Signed) Nurse Kathleen Gibson.”
There are a number of points in Nurse
Gibson’s letter that apply in every home
where there is a delioate child, in every
home even where the children are “ not
quite right.”
To begin with, “ the little one took the
Emulsion well ” —this proves Scott’s Emul-
sion has none of the nasty taste or smell of
common cod-liver oil. Then: “ good results
are certain to follow its use ” —mothers
therefore need never hesitate to give it.
Finally: “ My little ■patient has now become
a strong and healthy child ” —this is the
result which Scott’s Emulsion always
secures—each mother of a delicate child
most earnestly desires.
You may perhaps wonder at this; you will
not if you consider a moment what Scott’s
E nulsion is. It contains pure cod-liver oil.
the standard medicinal food known to
physicians, blended.with hypophosphites of
lime and scda, the two leading elements in
bone and tissue building. The process of
its manufacture is the result of the ex-
perience of thirty years. Many things have
been offered in its place from time to time,
but Scott’s Emulsion remains the standard
remedy of the British people.
Therefore there was nothing to wonder at
in the cure of Nurse Gibson’s iittle patient
Hemorrhage of the lungs, bad cough, re-
tarded development, and all the painful
weakness after hemorrhage disappear in
taking Scott’s Emulsion; it calls back
appetite, health and strength, and these
bring happiness.
Look for the man carrying a big codfish
over his shoulder—unless he and his fish
are on the wrapper you are not buying
Scott’s Emulsion.
You can obtain a sample of Scott’s Emulsion
by sending fourpence'to Scott & Bowne, Ltd.,
483 Kent-street, Sydney, and mentioning this
paper. All chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
NOTICE OF REMOVAL
JOHN WALKER # SONS, LTD.,
Distillers and Spirit Merchants
of Kilmarnock, Scotland . . .
Beg to announce that they have REMOVED their
Sydney Branch Office
to
No. 9 PHILLIP STREET
(near the Circular Quay),
where they have also OPENED an extensive
BOTTLING WAREHOUSE
for Bottling their Whisky in Bond , under the
supervision of H.M. Customs.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Seourity of Freehold of
Leasehold City or Suburbad
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand,
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per cent,
of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
‘ RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
mm
&
M
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 109 r
H. Hillier,
130 Susaex-sb.',
SYDNEY.
OSS’ Send for a
Catalogue.
f
Bent- Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15k
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Beat and Cheapest.
H. HTLIjIETt, ISO Sussex-street.
W ;MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class vVorkmen. Send for Catalogue. Agents wanted.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
gdf
g
WHOLESALE
Distri buti ng Agent*
Hew South Wales —■
M. RUTTY & GO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence % Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland—
Thos. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Phllp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie A Co.,
Launceston
Hew Zealand—
D. Benjamin & 00.
Dunedin, ttenington
and Ohrlstohuroh.
*L., '
The GANZ
Electric Apparatus
are built right.
Let us give you some
evidence of their
superiority.
Canz Direct Current Alr-Propeller<
SOLE AGENTSI
The Austral Qtis Engineering Co., [td., South H)elb.
MARTELLS
“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
“Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
T*i 3 Lancet.
BRANDY.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
When In town, pay ns a visit. Do you wanb a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description o t
SADDLERY? If so, send for onr Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, t's; 2-Spring Sulkies, 67;
8-Sp‘ring Sulkies, i 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, till.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £0
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Gaels,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
toOrder. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not bj
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for ieil
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15
cent more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, RedCern,
OUlt Si'KCiAL No. 8
£8 18/6
ss=
Melireced at any Whnrt <*r
Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
BY
“ Steele Rudd.’*
Domestic Verse.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.
When Dad Conies Home.
It’s half-past five, he’ll soon be home;
The tea is well in hand ;
And here’s the towel, brush and comb,
And water on the stand ;
Now this is wrong and that is wrong,
But he’ll soon put ’em right ;
We’ll find our daddy lots to do,
When he comes home to-night.
‘O, Daddy dear, we’re glad you’re home ! ”
“Dad, how d’yer do this sum? ”
‘ ‘ Please, dada, tie dis up fer me—
I’ve been an’ hurt my thumb.”
“And Dad, please make my stilts to-night—
No, make my bat instead ” ;
“ And, Daddy, put my lessons right
Before I go to bed.”
“Stop, children, stop ; your father’s tired !
Put-by that football, Jack.
Here, Lucy ! Jem ! you little imps—
Come down off Daddy’s back.
Now, Jack ! don’t tease your father, child,
You’d vex a saint outright;
You’re like a lot of imps gone wild
When Dad comes home at night.”
“ O, Daddy dear, we’re glad you’re home ! ”
“ Now you can mend my bat 1 ”
“And, Daddy, make a trap forme,
So’s I can ketch a rat! ”
“ And, I addy, stitch my football too 1 ”
And make the kite you said ! ”
“ ’Ere, Daddy, mend May’s Sunday shoe
Afore y’ go to bed ! ”
Ay ! Daddy may be very tired ;
His work be very hard ;
But Daddy’s eyes will brighten when
He steps into the yard.
And his great love, like sweet incense,
Descend in glad delight,
To wreathe the lips of innocence
When Dad comes home at night.
vie.
ALONE.
The Landlord at the Door.
When you sit beside the table,
With your hand upon your pen,
And you feel serenely able
To “ write rings round ” other men;
When fair shapes in crowds come flocking
From the distant Dreamland Shore—
You are startled by a knocking,
By a knocking at the door.
You are writing a sweet ditty.
Innocent, and light, and pretty,
For the children —nothing more—
Telling how their small feet pattered
Up and down upon the floor—
When —bang ! —the rhyme is shattered
By the knocking at the Door:
By the sudden, vulgar knocking
Of the Landlord at the Door.
If you offer him a lyric,
In full payment of his score,
He will say in tone satiric
Something adjectived with gore,
This Landlord who keeps knocking,
Knocking, knocking at the Door.
There is neither Grace nor Beauty,
Sensibility nor Wit,
In a man who prates of Duty—
When you have no use for it.
He has not the higher Vision
Which the sages had, of yore,
Who dispels your dreams Elysian
With his knocking at the door.
I have this to hope, this only,
That when I am here no more,
So to speak, but in a lonely
Tomb beside some silent shore,
When above me grows the clover —
When the Race of Men is over
And the world is dead and grey—
There shall come no knocking, knocking
At my door on Judgment Day.
N.S.W.
C. R.
The Song the Kettle Sings.
It’s nice to have a fountain,
With a polished nickel knob,
And a burnished tap and mountin’,
All a-simmeron the hob ;
But its song is not as soothing
When you’re mad at many things,
And your temper wants a-smoothing,
As the song the kettle sings.
It doesn’t vary brightly
On a high and holy key ;
It doesn’t linger lightly
On the frivolous and free ;
But it strikes a chord so true, man,
As it bubbles and it rings—
Oh, there’s something nearly human
In the song the kettle sings.
Now, droning softly, mildly,
Like a joy that’s partly spent;
Anon, a-rushing wildly,
With the force of passion rent;
Now lusty and defiant
Is the challenge that it flings ;
Then pleading, low and pliant
Is the song the kettle sings.
Ay ! it’s nice to have a fountain,
With a polished nickel knob,
And a burnished tap and mountin’,
All a-simmer on the hob ;
But give me the note of trouble,
And the subtle varyings,
And the life that seems to bubble
In the song the kettle sings.
V,
BEN SUN.


ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Bair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
■write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
J3F~ Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
CRAIG & AITKEK",
N.S.T/. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 Georfge street) Byd ney.
WANTED
JF YOU ABE SUFFERING from any of the following
ailments, viz., Rheumatism, Sciatica, Vital Weak-
ness, Liver Complaint, Dyspepsia, Lamb Back or
Debility, Kidney Disease or any Organic Derange-
ments, we want you to wear one of our ELECTRIC
BELTS, and when CURED to let other sufferers know
that our ELECTRIC BELTS will permanently CURE
when all other Remedies have FAILED. We prefer those
cases who have failed to obtain relief elsewhere. Send
us a description of your case, and size around the waist
next to skin. Address—
ARTHUR HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists*
44 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
London Address: 105 Regent Street, W.
Too Stout
I was for years; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored In
Four Weeks by the use of
O& R I CORO’S
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions , regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia—PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
F. H. Faulding- & Co., 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
■and Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. £
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rNLORODYNE.
safe*
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodynei
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, & g -j bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr.J.COLLIS DROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
** If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to ba
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
df
COUCHS
gd
Powell’s Balsam
of Aniseed.
SAFE AND RELIABLE,
Gives Immediate Relief.
ma^-
FOR 78 YEARS
THE POPULAR REMEDY FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis,
fnflnenza, and all Lung Troubles*
It loosens the Phlegm immediately, and remove*
cne tickling sensation in the Thrrf.it, which de-
prives so many of rest during the lt also
Strengthens the Voice and Cures Hoarseness-
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers,
But see the well-known Trade Mark—Lion, Net
and Mouse—is on wrapper.
Prepared only by Thomas Powell, Ltd.,
■ Blackfriars, London, S.E. A
WOOL PRODUCE. GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
act A.& SELLING- BROKERS OKTLY.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING
... THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
'(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
will be
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb. |
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
under
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing.
Way Bills sent on Application.
FRODTJCE
BALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, eto., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
AGENTS FOR. McDOUG ALL’S SHEEP DIP.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
YOU ENJOY YOUR LUNCH
George and Market Sts.»
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAT.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAT.
Single Room, with. Full Board, Bs. per
day, or £2 2s. per week.
TERMS,—The convenient
system of paying for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms ; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from.ls.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.3 o—from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
LOVELY COLORS.
BRILLIANT
GLOSS.
REJECT
IMITATIONS.
LLS
EL.
■ -
READV FOR USE
s
FECT
: : :
S FOR USE
I=lll=
LONDON. S.E
?ee that A spin a it’s nam
and Medals are stamper
on eve y Tin.
MANUFACTURED BY
ASPINALL'S ENAMEL, Ltd.. NEW CROSS,
LOUDON, ENG.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney
(Corner of
Clarence Street)
19, SI, 23 King Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES . . .
The ENGLISH DB LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pumps, Turbine Fans.
(Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
Messrs. GREENWOOD & BATLEY LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors, Pumps, etc.
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
,i Cables, Wires, Tapes, etc.
GOOD
HAIR FOR ALL!
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and ariving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. ’ Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
RW For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effective^ 7 ,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & Co
Pitt-street., Sydney.
CONSULT
HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURhI.
fe
BLAIR’S
GOUT $ RHEUMATIC
PILLS.
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and a-e certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vita] nart.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. lAd. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
Don’t shout”
I hear you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
" ‘ HowOh some
thing new —The Wilson.'
Common-sense Ear-
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can'i see them
they’re invisible. 1 wouldn't]
know I had them in myself.]
only that 1 hear all right.”
.The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
‘ forking parts of the
natural ear Has no
wire Invisible easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other de-
fg
d
vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request I
J. CM At HUES, 229-231 Collins St., MelP.j
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
r
With Patent RUBBER KE.-.i
and HANDS.
Sole Agents tor Australasia
TRUSSES. Englm
American and made to order
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belli
and all Instruments for there
lief and cure of deformities, Sc
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, the.
DENYER BROS.. Surgical Instrument Makeri
281 CEOBCE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
■;
m
Vapor Bath Cabinets
Price, 25/-
Ilead and Face Steamer, 3/6
Carriage paid to any railway station
on direct route in Victoria, N.S.YY
and S.A., or an3* seaport town.
We also have a better qualiti
Cabinet at 45/- (Head and Fare
Steamer free to advertise this line).
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Reader, why not he able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
o t leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain; win reluctant affection,
I gratify your ambitions, and produce
'amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is ihe most elaborate
and expensive thing of the <ci net
ever i übl shed. For a short
time I wi 1 send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of fid. ('tamps l to cover
postage. Order to-day and 1. arn
to Hypnotize. It is ;v c ance of
a life-time. Address—
'Sft
Mgvm
WlPl
as
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ASTHMACURE
GHIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
G2IMAUIiT & Co., Paris. Sold by a!' Cliomi t
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy •
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstke & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman's NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
SOI.D IN TWO SIZKS, 9d. & Is. 6d. J
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdhstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.


€►6
’ T?
oo o o
/3353 X rrra "i
Four Crown
Whisky
Wm
CORSETS
P.D.
CORSETS
♦
The Recognised Standard ot
HIGH-CLASS CORSETS
«
LATEST SPECIALTY
Straight Front
Erect Form.
Obtainable from Leading Drape.
Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that each
pair bears the Manufacturer’s “ Trade Mark ” on
band inside, as above.
£T U
tiVs
the
THE GREAT EVENT.
HATTE’S CORONATION FAIR
rpHE King: rules by right of descent over Millions of Free-born Britishers, and Hatte, by virtue of
Good Value, exercises a gentle sway over the Ladies of New South Wales. Just now—
The Great Coronation Fair is on
And the People of both High and Low Degree are Rejoicing.
There are £250,000 of Absolute FAIRING BARGAINS and 400 Highly Efficient
Assistants waiting to give a ROYAL WELCOME to the LOYAL LEIGES
of THE KING OF THE DRAPERY TRADE.
Ladies ! come early to the Fair (it will console you for being absent from Westminster), and
send for a Fair Book—t.He Greatest Bargain List ever published.
—C. G. HATTE, Newtown.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
plays tsrr.
French’s Acting Edition.
gdr
Bare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Hooks Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
TTTTT T A TJ"nD A TMP
VV -L-Lii-i xxJM UlliilJ'ili,
BOOK and magic arcade .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
b
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
The Yankee is just being converted to
Tom Paine’s teaching: “The world is my
country.”
That well-known Bulletin contributor,
Von Kotze, has published at Berlin, in German,
a book of Australian sketches, winch gets enviable
press-notices.
Only three times since Speaker George
Kingston (C. C. K.’s father, who was one of the
original officials of S. A.) first started a gauge has
Adelaide had less rain (3.05 in.) in the first five
months of a year than was recorded in 1902. Ihe
dates are 1839, 2.39 in.; 1888, 2.85 in. ; and 1891,
2.24 in.
A Melb. advertisement:
ANTED, by young: man, situation within 40 miles
w of Melbourne ; handy at gardening:, grooming,
milking, bootmaking, aerated water making, type-
writing, etc., quiok and good writer.
How many things does a young man need to know
before he is sure of a living nowadays ?
An English paper mentions that there is,
in Salisbury workhouse, an old man who once
had the “ peculiar honor ”of being apologised to
by the King. Twenty long years ago, it seems,
at some volunteer manoeuvres, the then Prince of
Wales accidentally stood on the ancient’s toe —he
has preserved the toe ever since as a memento —
and apologised. And in this glad. Coronation year
the man whom the King apologised to is in the
workhouse.
“Lindo ” : Re the purloining of Bulletin
in transit through the post (B. I am an
old subscriber, and regularly mail my copy, when
read, to a relative. Any other paper or letter so
sent reaches him next day, but The Bulletin
always takes two or three days to arrive—when it
does turn up at all. Have taken, however, to
wrapping up the red cover in the outer skin of the
Messenger or of the Southern Gross, and, thus
disguised, The B. is transmitted with speed and
safety.
The ways of N.S.W. Public Service. A
young clerk, at the beginning of the winter,
wanted to (or had to) work late occasionally.
Finding that the gas-jet over his desk had gone
bung, he memorialised his senior-officer to that
effect. Nothing happened to him until just now,
when his application was returned to him “for
his information.” The decision was (said deci-
sion being enthusiastically endorsed, by a succes-
sion of officers, with a total salary list of £4000)
that “no funds were available for the work.” The
job could have been done for, say, 3s. 9d. The
clerk had finished his night-work weeks before
getting the decision, with the aid of candles bor-
rowed from the caretaker.
WSLLONdJUi
Reader, do you wish to know how to
make more money, obtain greater
happiness, have better health, and
achieve greater success in life? It is
our business to help others —we are
specialists in this line. Will you permit
us to help you f It costs you nothing
until we prove what we can do. We
will send you our elegantly illustrated
ONE HUNDRED PAGE BOOK FREE.
This remarkable work thoroughly in-
structs you in the underlying principles
of success in every business and calling;
it tells you how to cure every known
disease and bad habit without the aid of
drugs, medicine, or the surgeon’s knife.
It fully reveals the hidden mysteries of
LEARN
AT
HOME
FREE
HYPNOTISM, PER-
SONAL MAGNETISM
MAGNETIC HEAL-
ING, etc. It tells you
how you can quickly
master these sciences
in a few days at your
own home and use this
mighty power on your
friends and associates
entirely without their
knowledge—new and instantaneous
methods which enable anyone to hypno-
tise quick as a flash. We guarantee
success or forfeit One Thousand Dollars
ingold. This wonderful book has proved
the turning point in the lives of hundreds
of persons who were ready to give up in
despair. Thousands owe their health,
happiness, and financial success to its
teachings. It is full of wonderful secrets
and startling surprises. It will be sent
to any address absolutely free. A i£d.
postal card will bring it. Address,
NEW YORK INSTITUTE of SCIENCE,
Dept. 822, Rochester, N.Y., U.S. A.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Orerlne Ota oease. It has cured
permanently the -very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. Price 4/6 and lh"
Thousands of testimonials.
OF gt-t. CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. NICHOLL, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
26 HIGH STREET, BELFAST, IRELAND.
Model 1900 Winchester Rifles
Model 1900 Rifle Ammunition
Creaseless Bullet Cartridges
Mushroom Buliet Cartridges
BB Caps OB Caps
1/- 1/3
22 Short 2 Long
2/- 2/6 per 100
22 Short 22 Long:
1/9 2/3 per 100
Price - - 22/6 each.
Post Free- 23/6 M
22 Short 22 Lon?
1/6 2/- per 100
Cartridges cannot be
sent per Post.
McLEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd.,
107 to 113 Elizabeth Bt.,
MELBOURNE.
ft
OCKET
.L w l
Kodak
Photography is readily mastered by
anyone in a few minutes.
No Dark Room is needed for changing ths
Films of a KODAK, they are
LOADED & UNLOADED IN DAYLIGHT.
Kodaks all prices from 6s. to £8 188.
jo be obtained of all photographic Dealer*,
Send for Price List, and mention this
paper.
KODAK Ltd. & Reduced,
THE JfcJ JL.O CK,
284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Free Lessons Daily at 3 p.m., at the above addresa.
ENO’S
HEALTH GIVING
COOLING,
‘FRUIT
REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING.
SALT.’
1
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of tne
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’*
Cure for Gout,'
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
VIS3NOVIN


the A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
I OUis* Velveteen.
NOTE WELL! Each Yard of Genuine “ LOUIS ” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L-OU-I-S and in no other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
THE
‘PLUM’
g
THE
PLUM'
rnsi
v* 1
SNTLEMEN.— This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground rin»
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kinds
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify t
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS. n
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
PaicE
/ Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful.Morooco Leather Case, 21a
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory in beautiful oase, 30s’.
Registered and sent Post Free to ant part op the World.
|SF“ Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Bole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney,
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
Hold the
Largest
Stock
on
Earth
of
Genuine Bottled
Cognac
Brandy.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
£3=
"S
ft*
rsj
soft*
I)***
c
m
JF
ATISFY
1®
Iti every section of the civilised world may be found agents
for Ruberoid, which is unequalled as an economical roofing.
mm
m
, AK
m
■
■
1 ■
"‘r . -
Great Western Railway Engine Sheds at Eversham, Eng.
E. RICH & 00.
LIMITED.
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
y*_s?
V*.
wy
>*!•*»
»•%
rv.
AGENTS-
Brooks, Robinson & Co, Lid.,
Melbourne, Vic,
A. W. Sandford & Co.,
Adelaide, B.A.
J. M. Fkrguson Ltd.,
Fremantle, W.A.
Jambs W. Jack,
Wellington, N.Z,
Hkdlbt Button,
Launceston, Tas.
KFBEROID


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Voi* 23.—N0. 1169.
SATURDAY, JULY 12, 1902.
Price "d.
THE WEST—WAITING!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
** Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TEEMS TO SUBSCRIBER 9
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria , S. Australia,
lVestralia and Maoriland.
Jn conseqiience of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of\\d. postage, the subscription
to The'Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum,payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —l \d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/Tiie Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which 'you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The rigid to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the "Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3 000 words, are speci-
ally accent able), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. rohen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desirethose sending MS. to distinctly 'understand that we
arc not responsible for its preservation or transmission-
To Amateurs in JtlacJc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adaptedfor direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
San Francisco. — L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. E. 11. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Tj^T&xxlZeiztfi.
SATURDAY, JULY 12, 1902.
The Occasional Russian War Scare.
Whenever it is considered desirable, for any
reason, to work up the military fervor of
this country the good old Russian bogey is
trotted out afresh. It has been a useful
bogey in a way, and Heaven only knows how
many scares—large, small, and middle-sized
—it has served to create. The popular im-
pression of Russia is of a huge malicious
caterpillar, crawling, with an intense purpose
and a baleful eye, over the map of Europe
and Asia. Its untiring patience, its malevol-
ence, its fixity of intention, its deadly
resolve to swallow everything and every-
body, its unreasoning hatred of Britain, its
designs on India, its designs on Persia, its
designs on Turkey, its designs on every
place—all of them are good old stock reasons
why Australia should maintain a large army,
and keep its sword bright, and its powder
dry, and the feather in Colonel Neild’s
cocked hat sticking up straight. These are
old stories, but they are re-awakened by a
wild and whirling yarn recently published in
an Indian military paper, which estimates that
Australia has a latent military strength of
924,000 men, and that it will gladly pour
these, or a large part of them, forth to
defend India when the ever-crawling Musco-
vite comes down on Herat. The writer
quotes six reasons why Australia should be
ready to plug the alleged enemy at any
moment. They are : Russia’s continued
advance towards Herat; its influence in Per-
sia ; its spread on to the Pamirs; its
alleged ominous attitude towards Tibet;
its occupation of Port Arthur; and its
“ powerful fleet ” in the Chinese seas. There
is no mention of any proposed attack on
British territory, but these statements have
moved more than one Australian paper to
an attempt to prod the old defunct Russian
scare into fresh activity.
It would be a good thing for Australia to
seriously consider and analyse this recurrent
bogey. In the first place, everybody, by
dint of constant repetition, takes Russia’s all-
swallowing principles for granted. Yet
Russia nowadays is much over-rated as an
aggressive Power. It swallowed a vast amount
of territory in the sixteenth and seventeenth
centuries, and a good deal in the eighteenth
century, and then it, to a great extent, went
out of the business. It is a hundred years
now since Russia annexed anything very
large or very remarkable. Since the days of
the great Russian aggressions Britain has
taken hold of nearly one-fifth of the earth.
It devours 10 acres where Russia swallows
one, and whereas the Russian empire was
inconceivably the larger two centuries ago,
it is now about three million square miles
behind that of Britain. The Muscovite state
has eaten up nothing in Europe for 77 years.
Its recent expansion in Asia isn’t nearly so
large as is commonly supposed ; it spread
over empty Siberia when Elizabeth was
still queen in England, and Irkutsk, which
is still almost its farthest-out city on the
Chinese border, was founded by its Cossack
armies 250 years ago. Russia was on the road
to Herat, down the eastern shore of the
Caspian, in 1730, and it is loafing on the
same old road still. In fact, through the
sale of its huge American province, Russia
has, during the last century, been
almost stationary so far as territorial
expansion is concerned, though it has
devoted itself vigorously to internal develop-
ment. Meanwhile Britain has been seizing
the earth in a fashion that is almost
unparalleled. Yet nine Britons out of ten,
through sheer force of habit, regard Russia as
a chronic devourer of everything that comes
in its road, and their own country as a non-
aggressive and long-suffering State which
wouldn’t take anything save under com-
pulsion.
* * • *
The useless, half-ruined, half-dead town
of Herat has been regarded as the “Key of
India,” mainly because the old-time con-
querors of India came that way. It is the
key just in the sense that Gibraltar is the key
of France—it admits into the country next
door, and any invader who gets through that
country alive may start a career of conquest
afterwards if he can. But within the last
150 years Britain has been making much
faster progress towards Herat than Russia
has done, and Russia has as much reason to
reach out for Herat in self-defence on the
ground that it is the key of Turkestan,
as Britain has to guard it as the key of
India. A key works on both sides of the
door. Russia certainly has a grievance
against Britain—a much worse one than is
generally recognised, and the British policy
towards Russia has been calculated to bring
about that great Armageddon which is so
confidently predicted. Russia is a great
Power in an unfortunate situation. It has
had- for many years coastal outlets on
the Baltic, the White Sea, the Arctic Ocean
and the Northern Pacific—all blocked by ice
for a good part of the year. It has an outlet
in the Black Sea, which Turkey can stop any
time at the narrow Bosphorus and Darda-
nelles. It longs to become a great commer-
cial country, which is a very reasonable
ambition. And it is openly desirous, with
that end in view, to steal some port that is
open all the year round and isn’t dominated
by any foreign state—just as Britain has
stolen ports all the world over. Most of its
restlessness, which isarather mildkindof rest-
lessness after all, arises from the struggle to
find that sea-exit, but Britain has laid it down
as a fixed law that Russia must not expand
commercially, but must petrify in its com-
parative isolation. The mere suspicion that
Russia meant to find its much-desired port
at the expense of the disgraceful Turkish
empire brought on a ruinous war 50 years
ago —and yet Britain has itself plundered
Turkey remorselessly. Russia has been
plainly informed that any effort to reach the
open sea by the annexation of barbarous
Persia will mean war. The attempt to
secure an ice-free port at the cost of China
brought about a solemn ivarning in the
shape of the Anglo-Jap alliance—this despite
the fact that Britain hasn’t scrupled to pare
away outlying sections of the Chinese empire
to enlarge its Asiatic possessions. Russian
rule is none of the best ; but Britain, the
great annexer, land-stealer, and philan-
thropist of the world, props up far worse
tyrannies in order to destroy Russia’s pros-
perity. This policy is certainly calculated to
bring about trouble.
* * • •
Australia’s end of the periodical Russian
war-scare rests on no visible founda-
tion. Russia has had over-sea possessions,
and abandoned them in obedience to its
policy of keeping the empire in one mass.
It had outlying settlements once even in
California, but it dropped them, together
with Alaska, and it has never shown the
slightest- sign of any desire to acquire new
ones. It was almost the only Power which
didn t join in the division of Africa, and
which let the scramble for the Indies and
for Polynesia go by unheeded. In. its con-
sistent policy of keeping its dominions solid,
it dropped chances that no other empire of
any strength would have neglected. Of all the
European States, Russia, on its past record,
is the least likely to attempt the annexation
of Australia. Its “strong fleet” is really
weaker than that of either France or
Germany, and incomparably weaker than
that of Great Britain, and it makes no
serious attempt to catch up on its rivals.
Even its army, with an alleged peace
strength of 1,100,000 men, isn’t so amazing
as it seems when set against the British
empire’s 700,000. Britain regards itself as
a simple innocent Power in a military sense,
because the average Briton counts only the
forces in the United Kingdom. But in
reality it keeps under arms the biggest force
in the world, Russia’s only excepted, and
incomparably the biggest navy, and it spends
on warlike preparations more than any other
State on this earth.
* * * »
In addition to all this constant and tre-
mendous preparation for war on Britain’s
part, it must be remembered that there is an
almost entire absence of any visible inten-
tion on the part of any State to attack
Britain. The war-scare is hardly ever based
on the fact that any great Power has made
a move towards violating British territory ;
it almost invariably arises from the fact that
some Power has threatened to occupy a
dirty little town from 300 to 1000 miles
away from the Empire’s border, and that
Britain, the great annexer, will see that
Power darned first. One scare was based on
the Russian threat to occupy the Afghan
town of Penjdeh ; Britain, which itself holds
half of the old Afghan empire, promptly
got in the road. Britain has taken
Hongkong and other places from Chipa,
yet the rumor of Russia’s intention to occupy
a Chinese port looked as if it might bring on
Armageddon before its time. Britain once
went to war with Russia, and once nearly
went to war, on the mere suspicion that the
seizure of part of the Turkish coast was im-
minent, and then it dismembered Turkey
itself. It took all Egypt and Nubia, and
came near to war with France over the
French occupation of one town which no one
was quite certain belonged to the Egyptian
territories. As to actual war, since the days
of Elizabeth there has hardly been a case in
which Britain didn’t issue the first declara-
tion of hostilities and take the initiative.
Even in the great struggle with Napoleon it
was Britain which declared war, and in its
few disagreements with Russia it was the
aggressor. The legend about Muscovite
designs on English territory is amazingly
persistent, but the evidence is prac-
tically nil. Certainly no Power which
has got into the habit of grabbing
territory can do it without approaching
British soil, for Britain has seized on so much
soil ; and it is equally true that even the most
non-aggressive of Powers can’t go on exist-
ing just as usual without existing danger-
ously near to British territory somewhere, for
the same reason. But the theory that Aus-
tralia should always boil with military ardor
because some other Power is near to British
territory, in a world where hardly any Power-
can'be otherwise, is too exciting. Australia
should be ready for defence on general
principles, but that is another thing. If
Russia ever attacked Herat, and Australians
helped the Afghans under British direction
to defend their own country, its probable
reward would be a demand that it should
freely admit the Afghans to Australia because
it helped them. It has had that kind of re-
ward before. A few Australians and some
Indians helped Britain in China, and this
country has since been denounced by its
Dobsons and Braddons because it didn’t
show its gratitude to these Indians for help-
ing Britain by admitting them here. This
country may have too much of that sort of
reward.
The “Teeming Millions” Delusion.
India is over-crowded. Famine sweeps off its victims
by the million, and we, in a Pharisaic spirit, consider we
do our duty if we send a few thousands to buy them food.
But we will not let them come and cultivate our waste
lands. We claim to be liberal and enlightened, yet fear
we shall be contaminated by contact with a man whose
skin is a little darker. The policy of the advanced Aus-
tralian of to-day dates back some centuries before the
Christian era. It was that of China, and if persisted in
we shall in the future fill a similar position to that which
she occupies—stagnant and inert—the prey of every
country with more energy and more real strength.
— Launceston'(Tas.) Examiner.
There is a streak of fat and a streak of lean in the
doctrine of the Australian cheap-nigger-labor
party. The streak of fat is business; the streak
of lean is sentiment, piety and moral snuffle. The
business idea is that we should freely admit black
labor in order to build up Australia, that it may
become a great, powerful, virile, progressive com-
munity like Hayti, Brazil, Paraguay, Peru,
Honduras, Nicaragua, Guatemala, Cuba, the
Southern United States (the old slave territory
Portugal (the turning point of Portuguese history
was the introduction of black labor), and
all the other mixed communities —not sink to the
degraded level of Great Britain, France, Ger-
many, Italy, the Northern United States, and
other dismal communities where the white race
has been kept practically pure and has failed in
consequence. The sentimental idea, or streak of
lean, is that Asia in general is crowded to suffoca-
tion, that India is perishing for want of an outlet
for its surplus millions, that Africa is standings on
its brother’s head because the population is already
two deep and will soon be three deep, and that it
is cruel and unchristian for us, who have an empty
country to give away, to deny admittance to these
teeming millions, and the matter will be men
tioned in our ear on the Day of Judgment.
* * * *
People, as a rule, take these teeming millions
for granted, they having become an article of faith
and a matter too self-evident to be worth investi-
gating. The average man doesn’t look up any
simple handy work of reference like the “ States-
man’s Year Book ” to see whether the millions teem
or not. As a matter of fact the population of India
and Ceylon averages about 180 persons to the
square mile —it is an immense population of
nearly 300,000,000, but it is also in an immen e
country. If the Indian dependencies are
included the rate is less. Roughly speaking,
Saxony is four times, Belgium and England are
three times as densely peopled as India ; Great
Britain and Ireland taken as one is about twice as
densely peopled and so is Holland; and Austria-
Hungary, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and
Switzerland are all far more thickly crowded.
India about ranks with Denmark and Portugal.
It is far more empty than Russian Poland, and it
is exceeded in average density of population by a
very considerable area of Southern Russia. One
of the Central American republics (Salvador) comes
pretty close up to it, though Central America is
commonly regarded as an empty place, chiefly re-
volutions, snakes and mahogany trees, tinder these
circumstances the “teeming millions” of India,
when brought down to exact figures, don’t teem
nearly so much as is commonly supposed, and a
great deal of vituperation is wasted on Australia
for not affording an outlet for a crowded race
which, granted good and intelligent Government,
has no reason to be seriously crowded for at least
another century.
•I * * *
Certainly India suffers from famines, and there
are various good reasons why it does so. It is a
country of rich soil and poor people. It was
plundered in the time of the East India Company
to an extent commonly estimated at £500,000,000.
In those days even petty clerks brought home
large fortunes, and India became poor and
England rich in one and the same act. India had
been plundered often enough before, but the
plunder on most previous occasions remained in
the country and gradually went into circulation
again ; this time it left the. country for good.
Local manufactures under British rule were largely
crushed out by importations, and in the interests
of the English manufacturers no effort was made
for many years to foster Indian industries. In de-
ference to the British Freetrade superstition, which
was applied to India long before it was to England,
customs duties were reduced to almost nil. This
depressed native manufactures (for the cheapness
of the native as a laborer was counterbalanced by
his ignorance of up-to-date machinery and on the
Freetrade principle he was undersold in his own
market), and forced a much larger proportion of
the people to depend on the land ; and, though
things are improving, India is still lamentably
behind in a manufacturing sense. The want of
any customs revenue worth mentioning also led
the Government to tax the land very heavily in
order to get revenue ; the tax in very many cases
swallows up half the produce. Also there is a
drain, estimated at £16,400,000 a year, for pen-
sions to officials living in England, interest on
money borrowed in England, and the like ; and a
huge army is maintained at India’s expense and
used for many purposes that don’t wholly concern
India. That country is, to a great extent, a proof
that While the land that plunders others may get
along under Freetrade the situation for the land
that is plundered is very different. It is also a
proof of many other things.
* * * •
India doesn’t suffer from scarcity in a bad year
to half the extent that some European countries do
in an ordinary year. But these countries buy food
from abroad when their crops fail; poor, beggared,
plundered India, with its constantly increasing
' English debt, has not the money to buy food with,
and starves. That is the whole story of Indian
famines. The “teeming millions” are to a great
extent bosh. Even the most congested parts of
India are far less crowded than Saxony or Eng-
land in density of population. Some figures are
as follows :
Population
per square
mile.
Middlesex (English county), not including London 3129
Lanarkshire (Scotch county) .. .. .. 1523
Renfrew ( ~ ~’).. .. IPO
Lancashire (English county), not in eluding cities 1/ 69
Saxonv (German kingdom) .. .. .. 743
Belgium .. .. .. .. .. 589
England and Wales .. .. .. .. 558
Oudh (Indian province) .. .. .. 532
Bengal „ .. .. ..493
Holland .. .. .. .. .. 409
Rhode Island (United States) .. .. .. 407
Massachusetts „ .. .. .. 34S
Italy .. .. .. .. .. .. 293
Germany .. „ .. .. .. 270
Switzerland .. .. .. .. .. 208
France .. .. .. .. .. 191
Austria-Hungary .. .. .. .. 188
India as a whole .. .. .. .. 188
India, its dependencies and Ceylon (about) .. 160
Denmark .. .. .. ; .. 160
* * * •
Taking these circumstances into account, it
doesn’t seem that Providence has doneanytl ing to
India that cads for this country’s interference. India
has everything required to keep twice its present
population in comfort. If it fails to do so because
the Hindu isn’t a Yankee, or an Englishman, or
a Belgian, Saxon, Frenchman, or Dane, we can’t
make him any of these. If he can’t live on the
resources of his own rich country, which is far
emptier as a whole than the barren mountains of
Switzerland, it can only be because he is a failure,
unable to hold his own in war, polities, or indus-
try, and no country is wise to import failures.
Anyhow, there is no call to waste great sympathy
on the Indian person merely on the ground that
he is a crowded mortal. By comparison with
many others he has a wildly extravagant amount
of breathing space.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Philp’s Trap.
The Philp Government in Queensland laid a
curious and rather clumsy trap for the Federal
Government in the matter of the Kanaka trade,
and after baiting it with the red herring of bogus
sympathy, and oiling it carefully with the oil of
hypocrisy, awaited results. The results, so far,
have not been very good. The Australian Parlia-
ment, in obedience to the decisive mandate ex-
pressed at the polls by Queensland, the State
most interested, decided to abolish the importa-
tion of Kanakas. Those already in the country
would therefore drift back to their islands by
degrees, being returned, as provided by the State
laws, at the expiry of their engagements. But,
in order to give the planters time to accommodate
themselves to the new conditions, the influx of
Kanakas was not immediately prohibited. A
certain number of new islanders, bearing a certain
fixed proportion to the number of islanders re-
turned, may be introduced. It is a diminishing
number, and the traffic ceases altogether at a
fixed date. The Philp Government, of course,
knew the intricacies of its trade in human flesh
much better than the Federal Ministry did, and
this was where its trap came in. One of the
peculiarities of the trade is said to be that a
small proportion of the returning islanders, find
ing, when they get back to their own archipelago,
that they are unpopular, and that their territory is
occupied by hostile individuals waiting for them
on the shore with an axe, simply re-enlist and
come back. At least that is the explanation
given when they return to Queensland. These
individuals could be brought back, under the
Federal regulations, as new laborers, and so, for
so no years at least, no difficulty would arise. But
the Philp Government, well-knowing this feature
of the trade, carefully issued licenses to recruit
new Kanaka laborers up to the full number
allowed under the Act, and thus blocked the re-
turn of those casual re-enlisters. Then Philp


wrote to Acting-Premier Deakin that he
(Philp) had fixed things in this way, and that
he wanted to know what Deakin was going to do
about it. To quote Philp’s own words as he set
the trap
There is every reason to believe that a number or
return islanders about to leave Queensland will, when
they arrive at their islands, decline to land on account of
the changes of circumstances making this course dan-
gerous. This often happens to return islanders, and
under the old regime it was possible to solve the difficulty
bv allowing them to recruit anew, and return to the
Queensland sugar plantations. Under the Federal legis-
lation this cannot be done. The vessels already gone out
are licensed to bring the full number of recruits allowed
for the year by the Commonwealth Act. ... I need
hardly point out that to compel any of these islanders to
land, should the circumstances in any case turn out as
indicated, would, even if legal, be an act of gross in-
humanity.
Deakin’s answer was tolerably strong, but it
wasn’t half so strong as the Philp Govern-
ment’s deliberate statement of its own brutality
called for. The Philp Government’s care
to leave no margin in its indent of human
flesh for this year, so that any returning
islander who found himself endangered could
be brought back and included in the legal
number of new immigrants, was ingenious ; and
its grief over the woes of the Kanaka whose
retreat it had so carefully cut off, is a
pathetic thing which is being worked for all it
is worth to bring discredit on the anti-Kanaka
law. But if it doesn’t instead bring down un-
speakable disgrace on the Philp Government it is
only because the public fails to understand the
situation. Even now Philp doesn’t seem to be
sufficiently heart-broken to suggest that the
Kanakas he grieves about should be brought back
and counted as part of next year’s importation.
He seems to want his full tale of new Kanakas
this year and next year, and these special islanders
as an extra. Apparently, for any sacrifices the
Philp Government will make on their account,
they may be thrown ashore on hostile islands and
butchered six times over.
4
Reactionary, With a Vengeance I
In its special Coronation number Hobart Mercury
recklessly cast aside its last remnant of decent
modernity and perpetrated the following 13th
century absurdity :
A date to be remembered. A day of record, which the
roll and dust of ages will not obscure. It marks a new
era in the history of the British Empire. A departure
from old traditions, the elevation of King Edward VII. to
a foremost place among the Rulers of the Earth. Hereto-
fore, the destinies of the British Empire have been ruled
by the Parliament of the People. Constitutionally, this
has been correct. Practically, the Monarch has been a
puppet. To such position, if present presages indicate
coming change, the King will not consent to be relegated.
Britons throughout the world are hopeful that he will
take his rightful place in guiding the destinies of the
Empire, and will protest, when needful, at formal
acquiescence in the bidding of any political party
holding the reins of power. Reformers who cry
aloud in high places and in low, and wail because
of the nation’s fancied decadence, are fain to admit that
in autocratic government there is some virtue. Wisely,
the British Constitution unpermits extremes, but in the
light of passing events, and in culminating world-wide
changes, reasoning peoples of the world know that their
true liberties are being endangered, and the best interests
of the present and coming generations imperilled by an
excess of latitude which is fast degenerating into
license. In this respect the British Empire suffers.
King Edward, in the terms of his Royal Oath, will seek
to reform this altogether. It is a solemn and weighty
duty, heavy as any kingly shoulders have ever borne, but
the faith of the British people in their new Monarch is
unbounded, their hope never more serene than on the
day now dawning.
Apart from the blatant foolishness of this, here we
have the Mercury openly inciting the reigning
monarch to fracture the thrice-blessed British
Constitution. Somebody evidently wants a title
vwv badly.
4
The Federal Anti-Labor Party.
The Federal Labor Party which, with the full
knowledge of the fact that the N.S.W. State
Government did not intend to start iron-works,
killed all reasonable chance of an Australian iron
industry by confining the benefits of the Federal
bonus for iron production to State socialistic
works, is now being very kindly reminded by
Sydney D.T. of the mischief that it has done.
The D.T. prompted the party to the malicious
act, and it is quite in accordance with that
journal’s character to now gibe the labor members
for their folly. It does this by pointing out in an
innocent and irrelevant sort of way, what a bonus-
ereated iron industry has done for Canada in ten
years:—
There are now four great iron companies at work in
Canada. They have amongst them 14 completed fur-
naces, and eight in course of building or projection. Her
annual capacity in built or building furnaces for turning
out pig iron is 1,090,000 tons. The Canadian product
last year was three times as large as that of the year
before. Canada consumes 800,000 tons of iron every year.
She produces as yet only a third of it; but she will soon
overtake her own requirements, even though they largely
expand. She is now in a position to mine and manufac-
ture iron at a cheaper rate than can be done even at
Pittsburg. She paid last year in bounties a sum of
£70,000 for the production of 245,000 tons of pig iron.
The object of the Dominion Parliament in offering the
bounties was that they should be to furnace-builders
what subsidies are to railway companies or subventions
to steamship companies. The bounties are designed to
gradually taper off, and expire in 1907.
The Dominion Iron and Steel Co. can mine 6000 tons of
ore per day iu Newfoundland, carry it 425 miles to fur-
naces at a little town named Sydney, and land it there at
a cost of ss. per ton. The ore runs 54 per cent, in iron ;
therefore the cost for the materials of a ton of pig iron
will be only about Us. in Canada, as against 16s. 3d. at
Pittsburg. The little Canadian town of Sydney had, 10
years ago, a population of only 2500. Now it has 15,000.
The reason is that about 4000 men are employed in the
Dominion Steel Co.’s works, and the trades necessary for
their supply make up the population.
There are now 18 rolling mills in Canada, and two more
in course of construction. The Dominion imports at pre-
sent about £5,400,000 worth of iron and steel goods. Most
of that, it is expected, will soon be made in Canada.
The-Algoma Steel Company, like the Dominion Com-
pany, employs about 4000 men. Its steel rail mill has a
capacity for making 600 tons a day. The company has a
contract for supplying 35,000 tons of rails per year to the
Canadian Government.
The Nova Scotia Steel Company began under another
name 30 years ago. But foreign competition kept it from
success, and it was not till 1892 that the company under
the present name got to work. Its ores are rich and
it is able to quarry 3500 tons a day at 37 cents per ton,
and this can be put on board vessels lying at a special
shipping pier at the speed of over 2000 tons per hour.
The-' Canada Iron Furnace Company is in close touch
with the iron mines of Lake Superior. Its works at
Radnor Forges are said to turn out a quality of iron and
chilled castings unequalled in Sweden or the United
States.
The Cramp Steel Company, the Hamilton Steel and
Iron Company, and the Deseronto Iron Company, the
Grantham Iron Works, and the Canada Foundry Com-
pany are other industries, all contributing to the sum
total of the great Canadian development of iron.
That is what the Labor party assisted the Shoddy
party to make impossible in Australia. For it
has been made practically impossible. N.S.
Wales has not the inclination, and Tasmania not
the courage, to start State ironworks, and the
only effect of the offered bonus to State works
will be to further discourage any private co. from
undertaking the enterprise. At a conservative
estimate, there are 80,000 people making a living
out of the Canadian iron and steelworks-20,000
miners, mechanics and laborers, with their fami-
lies. They supply the Dominion and provincial
Governments with about £240,000 a year revenue,
which pays the bonus and leaves £170,000 over.
They save the country £2,000,000 or £3,000,000 a
year, formerly paid away for imported iron goods.
What a difference to the industrial position
in Australia if there were created a demand here
for 20,000 men, guaranteed under the terms of the
Government bonus (and under the N.S.W. Arbi-
tration Act) fair wages and fair conditions of
labor ! But that has been made impossible by the
members, whose eager care that the miner shan’t
have a farthing added to his living expenses by
any Protection to farmer or manufacturer, must
be now put down, not to thought for the worker,
but care for the shoddy importer. And, having
destroyed this opportunity, the Labor Party and
the Shoddy Party have nothing to suggest jn its
place, except more public works (practically
pauper relief works) built out of loans.
4
No Hope.
‘ ‘ Banjo ” Paterson, who went with the pilgrims
bound for the New Hebrides, to study this new
exodus, writes a report to S.M. Herald which
can’t be called encouraging to Australians
They (the people on board) are bona-fide settlers, hard-
handed, anxious-faced men ; they all have a little capital
to lose, and feel the responsibility of their under-
taking very keenly. . . Two are Maorilanders, two are
Victorians, a few Queenslanders, the rest N.S.W. men,
except one, who is English. . . Nearly' every one of
them, on being asked why he left Australia, told the
same tale. They have been driven out by failure of
seasons. Year after year they have worked, and the
harder they worked the less progress they seemed to
make. One man said that on his farm in the Camden
district of New South Wales they had only three inches
of rain in nine months. He said, “ Even if seasons are
good you can’t make much, and if they are bad you lose
all you have.”
That last sentence embodies a whole essay on
Australia’s great failure. It has as good a chance
as any other land to be a manufacturing country—
with coal and iron on the spot, manufactures are a
natural pursuit. With its droughts and its great
stretches of barrenness it has less chance than
most countries to be a prosperous agricultural
land But the legend has been reared and
fostered by the interested calico importers that
rearing the exotic bullock and sheep and the
artificially-introduced potato and wheat are
our natural industries, while making rails
out of the ores that are here naturally is
quite artificial. N.S.W. has spent millions in
indirect bonuses to its unnatural wheat and
“spud ” industry. And when it got the industry
pretty well forward it struck the fact that there
were practically no iron-workers or such like to
consume the surplus, and when 16,000 miles of sea-
freight had to be paid on it to land it in England
there wasn’t a sufficient profit left to keep skin
and bone together. So the agriculturist makes
for the New Hebrides, and the M‘Millan gang of
importers, in their anxiety to keep down the
manufactures which would interfere with their
importing business, still tell people to go on the
land.
-4
The N.S.W. Audit Bill.
Concerning a N.S.W. Ministerial move:—
It may be almost accepted as a principle of N.S.W
State politics that whenever a Government brings down
a measure with the avowed object of securing reform in
the public account-keeping system, the real aim of that
Bill will be ultimate y found to be the giving of some
extra facility for financial manipulation. The Reid
Cabinet’s famous cash basis legislation was announced as
intended to stop for all future time the “ cooking” of
accounts. It was finally recognised (even by the Free-
trade papers) as the most impudent of schemes to conceal
the true position of the finances. The Audit Bill
of the See Government, if it becomes an Act, will,
without a doubt, be found to have very much the
same purpose. What is exactly intended cannot be said
now, no more than it can be said what John Jones is going
to do with the revolver he is so anxious to buy. But if
John Jones is a known unreliable character, it is foolish
to let him have the revolver. Equally foolish will it be
to let the See-Owe’Sullivan Government have this Audit
Act. The tendency in it which must give advocates of
honest finance pause, is that of curtailing the power and
responsibility of the Auditor-General. For many
years now Auditor-General Rennie has been a grey
wraith in the dreams of crooked financiers, fol-
lowing all their manipulations (always about a
year behind it, is true, unfortunately) and pointing
mercilessly to cash-account fakes, suspense-account
fakes, loan manipulations, and trust-account twistings.
He pursued Reid with his figures until even the Freetrade
papers had to call the “cash account” a fake, and each
Colonial Treasurer since has prayed that the octogenarian
Mr. Rennie would think of his great age and retire on a
liberal pension. But the resolute, clear-headed old man
has kept on when, according to all the calculations of life
assurance societies, he should be in his grave or dodder-
ing over his gruel. So one clear purpose of the Audit
Bill, now uefore N.S.W. Parliament, is to put a curb on
Mr. Rennie’s honesty, to prevent him making his usual
unkind remarks about figure-faking ; and that should be
enough to damn the measure in honest eyes. For we know
Mr. Rennie, anfl we know his opponents and their strong
interest in manipulating the State accounts. When a
really earnest effort by a really honest Government is
made to ensure financial honesty in the Treasury it will
probably take the form of separating the finances abso-
lutely from the system of party government. At present
the Treasury is the hub of the party system, and
Governments go in and out mostly on financial issues,
though that fact does not always appear on the surface.
It was in the past a trick of the Freetrade party in
N.S.W. to spend vast sums in keeping men at work on
State jobs, the while reducing taxation and reducing
private employment, and then, when affairs were
almost hopeless, to go out of “ hoffis ” with
an air of great dignity, and leave it to the
Protectionist party to square things up. That was
the task thrown upon George Dibbs more than
once. At the present time, an administration is only
able to hold office by concessions out of the Treasury to
Labor parties, and Country parties, and coalition parties,
and independent parties, and lone-hand parties. The
Treasury is therefore administered, not with a view to
the necessities and the potentialities of the country, but
with a view to keeping the Treasurer’s party in office by
having no unemployed, by proposing no new taxation,
and by always having a bridge or a road ready in a
pigeon-hole for a clamorous applicant. And, as it would
not be good (for the politicians) that the people should
know how things are going, the constant effort of every
administration is to cover up its financial tracks. A
bald statement to the effect: “Last year was spent
£19,000,000, of which £12,000,000 was from the taxes, and
the rest was borrowed or “appropriated” from trust
funds, and now we are being severely dunned for about
£5,000,000 more, and don’t really know what to do about
it,” might have a somewhat awakening effect on the voters.
So the great financial juggle is called into play, and
between State revenue and expenditure, Commonwealth
revenue and expenditure, trust funds, loan funds,
Savings Bank balances, suspense accounts, bills due but
held over, and so on, the statement of affairs is so con-
fused that only an expert, having full access to all the docu-
ments, learn the whole truth ; and he takes nearly a
year to arrive at his conclusions ; and even year-old ex-
posures being awkward, it is proposed to muzzle him.
That seems to be the real purpose of the Audit Bill. And
it is hereby proposed as an amendment that Mr. Rennie
be put in charge of the Treasury for a year to put things
straight—absolutely straight—for the inauguration of’a
non-political system of financial administration.
Tasmania’s Ha’penny Land-Tax. <y
Tasmania’s wretchedly inadequate |d. land-tax
has for years been rendered still more ineffective
by the absurd valuations accepted by the Govern-
ment in the interests of its friends, the big land-
owners and syndicates. These valuations have
been gathering in odorousness for some time, and
at last the Tas. Govt, has been forced to take
some steps to rid the island of the bad smell.
Four blocks of land held by the Y.D.L. Co.,
287,250 acres, paid £65 on a valuation of £31,755,
The Govt, valuation raised the assessment to
£153,000, making the cj.’s contribution to the
revenue £3lB 15s. per annum. As was to be ex-
pected, the co. raised a deafening row about it, and
appealed against the “injustice.” Judge Clark
heard the appeal, and fixed the value of the blocks
at £86,500, which means a tax of £lB2 4s. 2d. a
year. Although this is an advance of 170 per
cent, on the original rate, the valuation is still
miles too low, being only about 6s. per acre for
some of the finest land in Tasmania ! If Treasurer
Bird has any backbone he will insist on a
revaluation of many other big holdings in the
State. Well-informed persons calculate that the
land monopolists of Tasmania are dodging
at least £15,000 worth of taxation annually, even
on the ridiculously inadequate ha’penny rate.
The Lewis Government unluckily is wholly
enslaved by the hoary traditions and individual
interests of Tasmania’s dreadful House of Land-
lords ; otherwise the miserable little ha’penny
impost would be at once doubled, as in N.S.W.,
and, in the case of absentees, like the Y.D.L. Co.,
the tax should be at least quadrupled. But as
Lewis in the past has been busily engaged in
vamping up the Jingo enthusiasm, thereby secur-
ing his decoration, and as the weight of his
decoration will probably handicap him out of any
future useful effort, there does not appear to be
much ground for hope in that direction. The
country’s only chance of a fair deal lies in the
possibility of Treasurer Bird’s need for revenue
drawing him on to the close preserves of the
landed gentry ; but, as in honor bound, he will
scratch most assiduously in every other corner
first. He is not a particularly brave fowl, even
when hungry.
»
The White Race Instinct.
A Correspondent, “L. 5.8.”
I understand that the exigencies of a labor policy and
of a “ White Australia ” do not permit of justice being
done to the Japanese nation, and do not tend to hasten
Whitman’s “ Solidarity of Races.” As Wells observes :
“ The altar of the modern God, Democracy, will call aloud
for the stronger men.” Certainly, I would rather have a
cultured Japanese for a son-in-law than, say, an English
butcher. The latter is centuries behind the former,
mentally and physically, although the butcher may be a
fine, white animal.
Which is a fairly strong statement of the case
against a “White Australia.” It was some Con-
servative, eager for cheap, reliable, household
slaves, or some capitalist, anxious to make profits
out of servile labor, who, knowing his own selfish
motive, invented the lie that the White Australia
aspiration represents “ the selfishness of the work-
ing classes.” The misstatement has become a
popular one; it is even believed to some extent
now by the workers, who, not comprehending
their real motive (which is an instinctive one, or a
transcendental one, whichever phrase the reader
pleases) are prepared to agree that it is the
fear of the competition of colored labor which
is the sole cause of their antagonism to an
immigration of colored races. As a matter of
truth it is something far different—the instinct
against race-mixture which Nature has implanted
to promote her work of evolution. The white
race, having developed on certain lines to a posi-
tion which promises, if it does not fulfil, the
evolution of a higher human type, has an in-
stinctive repugnance to mixing its blood with
peoples in other stages of evolution. It was
this instinct which evolved the horse from the
eohippus, and every high type of animal life from
a lower. Once a type has got a step up it must
be jealous and “selfish” in its scorn of lower
types, or climb down again. This may not be
good ethics. But it is Nature. The question
doesn’t necessarily involve any issue of individual
superiority, or even of race superiority in any
but the ethnologioal sense. The Jap may be
kinder, better, purer than the white Austra-
lian. The Kanaka, living his natural life
under the palms, is emphatically a wiser, more
reasonable, more philosophical being than the
white man, working feverishly to-day to get food
so that he may work feverishly to-morrow, and
having little real pleasure, only certain opiates and
delusions of pleasure, tobacco, alcohol, music, and
so on. But the Caucasian race, as a race, has
taken up the white man’s burden of struggling on
towards “the upward path,” of striving at a
higher stage of evolution. It would certainly be
more pleasant for its members if they took to the
lotus-eating life of the Kanaka, or the submissive
Eassive life of the Asiatic. But the choice has
een made by Nature rather than by man. The
Caucasian, with his passion for Liberty, for in-
dividuality, bears the banner in the van of
humanity. If he were to stop to dally with races
which would enervate him, or infect him with
servile submissiveness, the scheme of human
evolution would be frustrated. And that’s why
the sane, right-thinking white man instinctively
objects to all mixture with the colored races.
♦
The South Australian land-grant railway jobbers
are rushing things, sure enough. It is only a few
weeks since the present movement for handing
over the building of the transcontinental line to a
syndicate on the land grant plan appeared above
the surface, and already Jenkins Iscariot has
put the measure in this session’s programme.
Probably, too, it will be one of the earliest mea-
sures of the session, for the jobbers are in real
earnest over their job. Whether they have any
genuine idea of building the line is hard to say,
but an agreement for its construction will pro-
bably be signed, and then if the Federal Parlia-
ment takes the Territory over, it must take the
agreement along with it. It will find most of the
land locked up on account of the syndicate’s
grant, and it will be able to do nothing itself till
the period allowed the syndicate for construction
expires, and the bankruptcy happens, and the
row begins ; in fact, the syndicate will probably
be there for the especial purpose of , blocking
all progress until it is bought out. This is
a time when the Federal Government should be
making an extra effort to take over the Territory,
and suppress the great job; but Barton is
hanging round London on Coronation business,
and taking his nourishment well, and the Parlia-
ment spends all its time over the tariff trying to
discourage local industries, and the people who
rushed to take over British New Guinea and
Burns, Philp, and Co.’s New Hebrides land
seem to have lost all the rush that used to be in
them.
IN 1900 the average number of prisoners in Vic-
- torian gaols on any given day was 1173 against
1197 in 1899—a decrease of 24. As a consequence,
there was much joy and exaltation about the
“ decrease of crime.’* But in 1900 there were 417
more crimes whose authors escaped arrest than
in 1899 (6449 in 1900 against 6032 in 1899),
and supposing these crimes involved on an
average two persons each — they often impli-
cated six or eight or 10, and supposing the 834
extra criminals had all been caught, and gaoled
on an average for only 14 days apiece,
the average gaol population would have in-
creased instead of diminishing. A decrease in
the number of criminals captured is not a de-
crease in crime. Any country, by neglecting
to keep its police and detective force
up to the mark, and failing to provide a
magistracy that will neither be bribed nor
intimidated by the push, and to establish laws
which will prevent a scared or venal “beak” letting
off the murderous-outrage person with a 20s. fine
when he is caught—any country under these con-
ditions can show a decrease in the number of
criminals in its gaols. A decrease of that kind is
generally the worst possible sign. Over a great
part of Australia crime is increasing in a shocking
fashion, while the gaol population grows smaller
every year. Even out of the small number of
offenders that the Victorian law manages to over-
take, about half are not criminals--only poor
wrecks doing six or twelve months for poverty
and old age. Of real criminals it captures, per-
haps, one in four, or one in six, and it captures a
smaller proportion every year. The decrease of
the gaol population has brought things to such a
pass that Bourke-street, Melbourne, is hardly safe
in broad day—much less by night.
“ J.F.K.,” concerning one aspect of the colored-
labor trouble :
During the last few months, I have seen great numbers
of Hindus landing at all the Queensland ports from South-
port to Oooktown, and, speaking Urdu fluently, I have
conversed with and won the confidence of many of them.
They are old soldiers to a man, who have speculated the
little capital coming to them on the expiration of their
terms of service, emigrating to Australia. They all ex-
press themselves bitterly disappointed with their recep-
tion and prospects. Belonging to the warrior class, they
despise and are utterly unfitted for continuous manual
labor. If driven to fieldwork by necessity, they will only
take piecework under a leader elected from among them-
selves. They regard the housing of the whites, other
than the trading class, for whom they have always been
taught to feel utter contempt, in this country as “ tem-
porary,” their living as one of poverty and uncleanness,
and their labor as degrading. Consequently they ask,
“ Have we been led to throw away our life’s earnings in
order that we might become coolies and live as junglis in
a strange land in our old age ? ” Only last night, I fell in
with a platoon party bivouacked on the line of march from
Cairns to Port Douglas. I spent an hour or two in their
company—a havildar, a lance-naik, two naiks, and 11 pri-
vates. Only two spoke a little English other than military
words of command. They all had hats, and most of
them still wore portions of old uniforms, all being just
past the prime of life. They told me that there are
hundreds more of their fellows to follow them. Other
travellers have told me that the same stamp of tall,
elderly Indian is everywhere wandering about the back
country in mobs.
♦
The Kyabram people, wbo started the present
demand —such as it is—for a cutting down of Vic.
Parliament, leaving the nefarious Leg. Council
with all its old power and arrogance, seem to take
themselves very seriously. Witness this extract
from a widely-published article :
Many of the mightiest events of history have arisen
from obscure parts of the earth amongst the humblest of
people. Thus the opponents of Kyabram would do well
to remember that the mightiest and most illuminating-
force the world has ever known in the shape of Christi-
anity came from a manger. When Mahomet started on
his career he was scoffed at and derided even by his
friends. He was a man of lowly life, without riches or
influence, but we might all now have been followers of
Islam had not Charles Martel rolled back the Saracen
invasion when it threatened to overwhelm Europe.
Yet while there are many statues of great men
in the world, it would probably be difficult to
find one of Charles Martel, who saved Christi-
anity. Again, though Buddha was born a prince,
he lived his life virtuously as a mendicant, and did all his
tremendous work in that humble capacity, though a
throne and riches were his for the asking. Another great
man whose name comes to memoiV was Zabbatae Zevi,
the so-called Jewish Messiah. Perhaps some would deny
his title to greatness, and hold him little better than a
charlatan, but at least he was a great charlatan, and
might, had he not foolishly given himself into the hands
of the Turkish Sultan, have done great things for the
Hebrew race.
And if anyone could show that Mahomet or
Buddha started his great career by meanly crawl-
ing out of his liabilities to the Government for
water conservation, when he was well able to pay,
the parallel would be complete.
»
Even the inefficient measure of Protection granted
under the Federal tai iff is shaking up the dry
bones of N.S.W. manufacturing industry. Al-
most every week there is news of the beginning or
enlargement of some business —the latest being
Portland cement works, near Wallerawang, which
cost nearly £250,000 and already employs 150 men,
and a new brick work at Botany, Sydney. Under
the old semi-Freetrade regime N.S.W. was shame-
fully behind in an industrial sense. Even what
little progress it made was largely in protected
industries industries protected by Freetrade
Governments which lied about the matter and
denied that they protected anything. It produced
less value of manufactured goods per inhabitant
than Queensland, Victoria, South Australia,
Westralia, Britain, France, Germany, Austria,
the United States, Canada, Sweden, Norway,
Denmark, Holland, Belgium, Switzerland, Spain
—-in fact, it tottered miserably with its big loan in
its hand at the back end of everything. And
the M'Millan push of importers taught it to be
insanely proud of the fact that, through its
failure to supply its own needs, it was more help-
lessly dependent on foreign countries, and had to
buy more per inhabitant from abroad, than almost
any other State. This helplessness was called by
the importing gang which lived on it, “splendid
commercial activity,” and the great loans which
were issued to keep the policy of helplessness
afloat were described as a “spirited development
of the great natural resources of the country.”
It is a glad thing to reflect that at least a little is
being done to give the splendid commercial
activity of N.S.W. a well-merited biff in the eye.
4 _
“ Galleryite,” on the new Vic. Ministry
The Irvine Ministry has been hailed all over Victoria as
“ a strong- administration/”* In truthdtis unquestionably
the weakest the State has seen for many a year. There
is an idea that the Ministry is strong because it was weak
enough to be frightened by the Kyabram bogus reform
movement. It is a known fact that when Irvine first got
the members of his Cabinet together they unanimously
favored a Leg. Assembly of 70 members. After a few
days’ squeezing by Aqe and Argus, the Cabinet came
down to 66 members. Some more pressure was brought
to bear on this wonderfully strong team, and the Cabinet
was known to be in favor of 60 members. Then came the
Footscray election, which the Kyabram league audaciously
claimed as a victory (the league never said “boo”
one way or the other before the numbers
were up), and finally the strong Ministry came
down to 561 Apart altogether from the sinuous
track it has so far made in history the Irvinb
Cabinet has not the elements of strength within itself.
It is composed of the odds and ends of the House. Irvine
himself is a sound Equity lawyer, who has always cut a
ridiculous figure in politics. He is as cold as a tomb-
stone, and couldn’t lead a flock of geese. Shiels, his
Treasurer, is a florid word-spout, who once borrowed a
large sum of money for his State at 3£ per cent.,
and placed it in the banks in Melbourne at 2 per
cent.; ever since then he has been looked up to in
Victoria as an accomplished financier. Taverner be-
longed to the Turner Ministry which Irvine and his
party turned out of office, so they alleged, for gross incom-
petence. And now, without having given any evidence
of having reformed his evil ways, Taverner is taken into
the bosom of the Irvine Cabinet as one of a strong team 1
Of course the reason Irvine selected Taverner was that


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
of the United States.
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBER, 1901.
ASSETS ..
INCREASE IN ASSETS
SURPLUS ..
INCREASE IN SURPLUS .. .. „
assurance in force
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE .. ..
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1900 BY ...
LOCAL DIRECTORS:
Blr VYM. M'MILLAN, K.CLM.G., Chairman; Hon. O. K. MAOKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.0.;
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S.,
F. 0. OOWLEY, Secretary. Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
£.68,966,608
£5,508,678
£14,797,717
£1,039,973
£245,682,651
£13,000,360
£8,088,718
he actually controls the seat held bv the Premier
Taverner, as a fact does all the p Lov^ an elec t« r ate.
that particular district, because Irvine™*too haughtv
X o g the
dt}. Inat is the way Irvine and men like him de
monstrate their superiority. Bent is the trickiest Van
NhhHhU he P cou.d 'CtVrTT practically admitted at
i>niii max ne coula not hope to carry any reform r>ro-
posals with Bent working: against him M‘Kenz°e Luch
a Strong man that he would have sacrificed even his
Scotchbyterian prejudices for a portfolio. He is one of
the worst panderers in Parliament. depends
hto n’the Houle rS ? es P ect that accordel to
he " ouse - Murray is a source of weakness to
the Cabinet because of his known democratic tendencies
Of the honorary Ministers some are unspeakablv Torv
and others unspeakably weak. P ly iory
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR OOMINO WEEK.
® OTAL - • • “ Sweet Nell of Old Drury *
Lyceum “The Great Ruby."
Tivoli Rickards’ 00.
£ AI ’ ACB “ Facing the Music."
Criterion “ Barabbas."
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “A Chinese Honeymoon."
Her Majesty’s “ lolanthe ” and “ Trial bv Jurv "
Theatre Royal “ The 10.30 Down ExpreJ." *
Town Hall Gerardy Concerts.
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville 00.
-♦
“ Nell , of Old Drury ” has entered on the
last fortnight of her career at Sydney Royal.
When she leaves she will be much missed, and so
wilL the King. Half the womanhood of Sydney
are badly mashed on Charles, the dog-bearer—in
fact, stage monarchs of his kind do much more to
keep the Royal legend alive than the real kings
Most people live and die without ever seeing a
king, but when they hear that his Majesty has been
graciously pleased to confer the title of C.M.G.
on John Jones they know exactly how it was done"
for they saw Charles 11., or Henry IV., or
Louis XIII bestowing titles and estates," and
remembered how beautiful he looked when he
took the estate down off a shelf and handed it
over. bweet Nell started as a very respectable
performance, and improved as it went on. Whether
Nell was needlessly untidy in her orange-girl
days may be a matter of opinion, and time hasn’t
lightened the sin of the dramatist in making the
handsome young Jeffreys a pale and pock-marked
villain m the decline of life, but the general effect
* s £ an d the beautiful women who
adorn Charles s court have been laid on with a
lavish hand. Charles himself, sitting in his
palace with his tools and reigning implements
around him, or going round town uplifting
his humble subjects, is a picturesque centre-
piece for these ladies to revolve round. Of
course, the scene where the beautiful ' Kino-
returns Nell .Gwynne, with interest, the money
she lent him is absurdly unreal. Charles, in real
life, wouldn’t have returned 2d. to a blind
cripple. But the drama, as a rule, disguises the
small meannesses of kings—especially the lurky
variety of king who is alwavs round a corner
Stealing something. And Charles couldn’t be put
oil tlio stage realistically. A king whose newest
lady-love celebrated her promotion by not getting
dressed most of next day, but going around among
the glittering Court in her night-dress, requires a
good deal of editing.
** * *
Bland Holt’s “Great Ruby” is in its
second week at Sydney Lyceum, and is doing so
well that it should bring the detective drama into
fashion again in Australia. With Sherlock Holmes
for a hero, and a valuable of some description
performing the vagaries of appearance and dis-
appearance which are usually left to the heroine,
dramatic excitement is quite as intense as in the
ordinary shriek - and - clamor, and much less
noisy. The Ruby does not call for help when
wafted up in a balloon, nor does it let
down its back hair and weary the audience
with shouts about its blameless character. Hence
a certain superiority of this play over others.
The various festival scenes at the Lyceum remain
as bright as ever, and the clouds that roll in from
the sides to make the sky round the balloon sug-
gest pasteboard only when they approach too
near the footlights. Miss Frances Ross continues
to look charming, and when she waves her arms
and beseeches Hindu Prince Baker Khan to take
herself and the Ruby (and the long yellow train),
it doesn’t look such a bad speculation for that
brown foreigner. It is a Ruby worth £50,000, or
some such trifle, but Miss Frances Ross manages
to live up to it.
** * *
Max Schliiter and his magic violin will
come before the public of Sydney at the Centenary
Hall, York-street, on the 14th and 16th. In his
grogramme will be the famous “Ciaconna,” by
aon—the greatest piece of music ever written for
the violin, and one of the world’s masterpieces—
gypsy airs of Sarasate, and others. Mrs. Gilbert
Wilson (a Carandini granddaughter) will support
“Joachim’s favorite pupil.”
** * *
On Saturday, 19th inst., “Facing the
Music” will be replaced at Sydney Palace by “A
Little Ray of Sunshine ” —said to be a graceful
comedy with an atmosphere of quiet Dickensian
humor, much after the fashion of “A Professor’s
Love Story.” Frank Thornton has a specially
good part in the new production.
** * *
“ Barabbas ” goes off the Sydney Criterion
boards this week, to give place to “ Hands Across
the Sea.” After Friday, therefore, Alfred Woods
will cease to emerge from a lengthy residence in a
Judean dungeon, looking as well fed and almost
as fresh as when he entered. The only concessions
Woods makes towards the dungeon are a growth
of beard and a goatskin. It is a very small amount
of beard, however, for a year’s growth ; also, the
goatskin is a clean and reputable garment, ap-
parently fresh from the goat. Some of the Pagans
i ea „ Y. ,hnstians, it was observed, spent their
y off-night, last Sunday, in listening to Rev.
George Walters lecturing on Barabbas the Robber,
and speaking kindly of their show. When the rev.
gentleman gave out the hymn, “Come unto
the Cord and do not stumble,” someone in
congregation fell on the floor with violence :
wi* • lenfc ? n unex pected illustration. Rev.
Walter is a mildly theatrical parson who wrote
Joseph of Canaan,” and who helps on the
alliance of Church and Stage manfully. “ Joseph ”
wasn t a bad drama, though the writer’s chief re-
collection of it is that Pharaoh sat on his golden
throne and sent for Joseph, and Joseph, when he
was quite rested came with a peaceful saunter,
just as lf dldn t matter whether a Pharaoh was
kept waiting or not. In real life the executioner
would have gone to hurry Joseph up, and his
neaa, at all events, would have arrived in haste.
** * *
The Smith Empire Company has been
putting m time at Sydney Protestant Hall these
last few weeks. The entertainment, with tram-
car effects, is mostly vaudeville. Various “queens
ol song and ‘ leading baritones ” have consented
t . ie low prices of 6d. and Is.,
but Wal. Cottier, who bills himself as “ just
a comedian,” is about as good as any of
them. Except for occasional difficulties with
the piamste, most of the performers get through
with as much credit as could be expected. Stain-
ton and Wallace are names reminiscent of larger
boards. Baby Williamson, another name that
recalls greater persons, goes through some four or
five turns very well. She is a well-developed
infant, and every time she appeared, the night this
writer was there she looked older, than the time
before. Writer left when Baby W. was about 13.
* * *
There have been no notable changes in
Sydney Tivoli programme this week, and the
filorenz Family—including the feminine Florenz,
whose shoulders catch with grace and accuracy a
couple of lOst. men—still provides the chief attrac-
tion.
** * *
Two or three thousand citizens gathered at
Her Majesty s (Melb.), on Saturday, to inspect a
revival of “lolanthe,” and appreciate the excel-
lence of that lovely joke as far as they were able
to understand it. “ lolanthe,” most fanciful and
least cynical of all Gilbert’s operas, is likely to
obtain more laughter in the wrong place and
fewer smiles m the right place than any other
humorous masterpiece of the same character.
Ihis can be affirmed with emphasis, because
there never was another London fairy tale
f afc Q resem hled it. Probably 10 per cent,
of Saturday’s audience understood the orna-
mental significance of Phyllis and Strephon,
f, „ re g ar ded the pictorial attitude of
the House of Peers with a Gilbertian eye. For
the benefit of the large majority the management
ought now to publish a key to “ lolanthe,” rather
than the statement that the present revival is “a
memorable production ” of the opera “ for the first
time m many years, with a caste that is, with one
exception, entirely new to Melbourne.” As a
matter of fact, this revival is not more memorable
tha n th e prev j ous production of “lolanthe,”
winch happened less than three years ago at the
Princess’s, when four members of the co. were
cast for the parts they are playing now.
* * • *
Howard Vernon, Kenningham, Bathurst, and
Stannis Leslie have all been there before, and
whereas Vernon is a rather better Lord Chancellor
than of yore, being older and more subdued, his
two rival candidates for the hand of the Arcadian
shepherdess are less satisfactory than they were
Their singing has deteriorated in volume and
quality, and their talking is not what it ought to
be. But the chief offender in respect to dialogue
is Bathurst, as the Earl of Mount Ararat, a char-
acter which has always had bad luck in Australia
since W. H. Woodfield’s glorious days. Among
the artists who are new to their parts, Miss
Ghuoni is a capital lolanthe, musically and other-
wise ; Miss Carrie Moore is a neat little Phyllis,
and an only moderately capable singer ; Harold
Thorley, as Strephon, is the mildest of principal
baritones, and not much more easy on his legs
than William Pauli was ; Miss Chetwynd shines
with the brightness of intelligence in a minor
fairy capacity, and a lady who bore the name of
Leitch on the programme, and Opie in the news-
paper advt., and who doubtless was Miss “Jennie
Opie from the Opera House,” filled the part of
the Fairy Queen in handsome style. Also, con-
ductor Caron and the orchestra rose to the occa-
sion, and the fairies and the House of Lords sang
delightful choruses with great success, and the
staging was calculated to keep even a dead person
amused for two hours and twenty minutes.
*
A bright performance of “ Trial by Jury,”
with Lauri as the Judge and Hugh Ward as chief
juryman, and Carrie Moore, Kenningham and co
in court, is given after the opera. This early pro-
duct of the Gilbert and Sullivan partnership
appeals forcibly to people who are not “dead
struck on “lolanthe.” It is like showing the
works of a clock to a child after he has looked at
the face and heard the ticking of the timepiece.
** * *
The rich and gaudy show at the Princess’s,
which threatened to improve greatly during its
first week, had only improved a little when Satur-
day night came round. “A Chinese Honey-
moon ” is every way stronger than “ The Thirty
Thieves. ” The story, begotten of “ The Mikado ”
and “The Geisha,” is brisk and rather ambitiously
musical. A thoroughly effective company would
elevate this entertainment to the level of its
clothes, and make the incidental magnificence
look less conspicuous. Barring Miss Beatty, none
of the ladies of Musgrove’s co. are well-placed in
“A Chinese Honeymoon.” Miss Stanton, as a
fair princess, starts with the disadvantage of a
hideous Chow-hat and other trappings, which
kill her pretensions to youth and loveliness ;
furthermore, the music doesn’t make the
best of her voice. Another lady in a modern
British hat, who plays the doting bride of a
ginger - whiskered Pineapple and gets awk-
wardly involved with the Emperor of China,
is not an actress of superior merit. And
a third lady, appointed to the arduous billet of
official mother-in-law to the court at Pekin,
merely walks through her part with a limited
sense of humor and an appalling make - up.
The Emperor and other Chinese potentates also
leave a lot of innocent merriment to be desired.
In funny situations they fail to set the house in a
violent roar, although houses are very apt to roar at
slight provocation. Edward Lauri wears the ginger
whiskers of a blameless life with much distinc-
tion, for Lauri is an active and intelligent come-
dian, toiling in a vineyard where humorists are
scarce. He and Maud Beatty are the main sup-
ports of the show up to time of writing, but there
is no visible reason why some of the other supports
should not be braced up or replaced. The laws,
regulations, and restrictions of theatrical manage-
ment are unaccountably unbusinesslike in some
respects.
** * *
“The 10.30 Down Express” will come
puffing on at the Royal next Saturday. Mean-
while ‘‘My Jack” continues to waft a few faint
suggestions of seaweed and shrimps across the
footlights, and the small lighthouse on the Skull-
bone Rock is still getting blown to pieces like a
chimney-pot in bad weather.
** * *
At the Opera House there is a new appear-
ance of Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Drew, who didn’t
go away last week. It was their first comedy
“ turn ” that went away, whilst the comedians
themselves stayed on to show themselves in a
new sketch—“ Diana on the Chase.” “Diana”
is practically the humanized “Galatea” of
Gilbert’s fairy fable, presented in the farcical
manner of the “Niobe,” who made things
unpleasant for Petramos Dunn. Diana, turned
to life and blowing a trumpet as a signal for
Pygmalion Petramos to slay his lawful missus,
is a droll variation on an old theme, and the Drews
play it cleverly. Tom Nawn’s sketch of “Pat
and the Genie ” happens to be something of
another variation on the same old theme, but
Nawn will dispose of that drawback by changing
his little bill next Saturday.
** * *
Gerardy, who has been partly round the
world and back again since last year, will re-ap-
pear at Melbourne Town Hall on Thursday night
(10th) and five subsequent occasions, accompanied
by his wizardrous ’cello in every instance. Miss
Electa Gifford, a soprano, from Amsterdam and
other cities, and Gootfried Galston, pianist, will
support the impressive young master of the
mighty fiddle, and all musical Melbourne will be
there to see that Miss Electa and Gootfried . fore-
said are equal to their distinguished responsi-
bility.
** * m
At Adelaide Royal the No. 2 Comic Opera
Co. has been reviving “ The Runaway Girl ” and
other things. Brownlow has left; he had a big
benefit concert in the Town Hall the other even-
ing, and took cold so badly that he could not
appear at it himself. Despite of losing him, the
co. is going very strong ; in fact, there are many
who back Fred Graham and Rose Musgrove
against all rivals as a pair of fun-makers. Haw-
trey’s co. with the “ Messenger from Mars ” is
promised shortly. At the Tivoli, Willoughbv
and Geach have wound up their season with Smith
and Jones. In these there was more room for
Arnold’s being missed than in Wright, which
knew him not at all; also Adelaide, not having
much money, and wanting to see all the new
things, has to economise on revivals. Still, Wil-
loughby has had a successful month. The
Marionettes of one D’Arc are now having a brief
season.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
It will be some weeks, or months, before the
gloomy list of deficits is published in full, but a few pre-
liminary calculations begin to drop in. New South
Wales is first with an estimated deficit for the year to
30th June of £84,594, which, added to the deficit brought
forward from last year, makes a shortage of about £236,000.
But the real shortage for the year should be close on
£358,000, for the £274,000 received as rents from the un-
paid-for properties in the resumed area is not revenue till
these properties are paid for, and should have been set
aside to cover the interest which was accumulating all the
the purchase money. The N.S.W. revenue was
theonlyone,bar Westralia’s,which showed alarge increase
under the new tariff. The See-Owe’Sullivan Govern-
ment received £ll,l7B,lBl—by far the biggest revenue
any N.S.W. Government ever had. It had to pay
£500,000 or so for old age pensions, which was a
new outlay, but on the other hand, it was relieved
by the Commonwealth of nearly £BOO,OOO of post and tele-
graph expenditure, and some defence expenditure, which
more than made up for them. Roughly speaking, when
the postal and other outlay saved is set against the
extra old age pension expenditure, the See-Owe’Sullivan
Ministry had about £300,000 or £400,000 more clear
revenue to spend than any N.S.W. Government ever had
in one year before. In addition to this, it misappro-
priated nearly £300,000 of resumed area-rents, making
£600,000 or £700,000 more than any previous Government
had. It spent more loan money than was ever spent
before —Parkes and M‘Millan’s awful record of 1891
is eclipsed now. Even if the expenditure in payment for
resumed properties is not included, it spent more loan
money than in any previous vearexcept the hideous Parkes-
M'Millan year, 1891. And there is a deficit after all.
The figures are roughly these: Revenue (in-
cluding £274,776 rents of unpaid-for resumed properties
wrongly applied)* £11,178,181. Expenditure, £11,262,775.
Deficit, £84,594. Doan expenditure oh Sydney pro-
perty resumptions, £1,331,540; other loan expenditure,
£3,900,072 ; total loan expenditure, £5,231,612. And
Treasurer Waddell, having received back from the
Commonwealth about £185,000 more customs and excise
than he reckoned on, and having a larger revenue all
round than he anticipated, says that his deficit is quite
satisfactory by reason of the general stress of the times.
If getting the biggest revenue on record is stress, what
kind of thing which is not stress would keep the See-
Owe’Sullivan Government off the rocks?
This year (1902-3) there will be about .£130,000
more to pay in interest on the increased public debt. Cer-
tain concessions in the shape of increased pay to railway
servants take effect from Ist July, which will probably cost
another £90,000. There will almost certainly be less
tariff revenue, for the tariff is being- grievously cut down.
This y 7 ear’s deficit, on present appearances, should be
something memorable. And next year (1903-4) the Civil
Service Superannuation Fund will have pegged out, and
£BO,OOO a year for pensions will become payable out of
the general revenue.
* * • •
During the last 12 months the balance at credit
of N.S.W. Civil Service Superannuation Fund declined
from £180,128 to £101,656, so it will last about another
year and a-quarter. Then the pensions will become a
charge on the public revenue. A Government wi li a
capacity for looking ahead would long ago have begun to
make an annual pay men t to the fund so as to break the
shock, but the N.S.W. Government never looks ahead.
* * * *
Queensland’s figures are also available, subject
to later correction :
Revenue .. £3,535,061
Expenditure .. 3,967,001
Deficit .. .. £431,940
Last year’s deficit was £528,188, so Queensland has
accumulated nearly a million shortage in two years. It
can’t set the present trouble down to Federation, for il
had a worse shortage the last year, before the Federal
Government started business, than it has now. And when
allowance is made for the fact that post and telegraph
revenue, and post, telegraph and defence expenditure
and cost of collecting customs and excise no longer
appear in the State balance-sheet, the revenue is much
larger now than in any .year before 1899. Yet the Philp
Government seems utterly unable to bring income and
outgoings within gunshot of each other. After two years
of huge deficits, it is still only talking about imposing a
small income tax, and a land tax isn’t even talked about.
* * * *
South Australia proposes to face some of its
troubles by making income-tax payable on all incomes
over £lOO a year, instead of over £2OO as previously, and by-
raising the minimum land-tax from Jd. in the £ on unim-
proved value to |d. And there is no visible reason to
doubt that a time will come when everybody 7 will have to
pay income-tax even if he only 7 gets 10s. a week, and
when the land-tax will be just as much as the great dusty
State can stand without the soil going out of culti-
vation altogether. While each inhabitant’s share of the
wholly unproductive debt—the debt, interest on which
has to be paid solely out of taxation—becomes regularly
heavier, of course each inhabitant will have to pay more.
And there is no visible end to the process till each in-
habitant bursts. Here is Coghlan’s estimate of the pro-
gress in recent years :
South Australian Debt.
Unproductive
Productive Debt Debt per Total Debt
per Inhabitant. Inhabitant. per Inhabitant.
1896 £49 6 9 £lB 12 4 £67 19 1
1897 49 13 11 18 14 5 68 8 4
1898 48 19 0 18 6 0 67 5 0
1899 49 15 9 17 13 11 67 9 8
1900 51 2 3 19 14 2 70 16 5
1901 53 0 0 20 2 6 73 2 6
There is a slight uncertainty about the figures for, except
in the census year, they are arrived at by dividing the
debt, which is known, by the population, which is only-
estimated. lint about their general tendency there is no
doubt whatever. And the same tendency is manifest in
all the States. Under these conditions taxation must
increase—it is only a matter of time and the continuance
of the present policy till the income tax is 2s. 6d. in the .
* * * •
One serious attempt was made to do some good
with the N.S.W. Audit Bill, and it fell through as a
matter of course. Opposition-leader L\e proposed that
the Bill should define the revenue account as “an account
of the cash income and current expenditure for and on
behalf of the consolidated revenue within the Jinanc a'
year"— the italics were Lee’s addition. At present the
payments made in London during May and June are not
included (that was Reid’s famous Cash Basis dodge), so a
very large amount paid in interest during the financial
year isn’t reckoned till next year, and the real deficit is
always several hundred thousand more than it profes < s
to be. Lee joined the Reid Government and defend- d
the Reid Government which invented this political fraud
so it is possible that he only thinks it wrong now, and
Wants the See Government to put it right, in order’ that
the See Government may have a fine large deficit. And
the See Government, which always objected to it, won’t
put it right on afty account. So'the political fraud goes
on.
• * »
The customs and excise revenue continues to
tend downwards. It was £830,000 in April and £669,000
in June. This is at the rate of just about £8,000,000 a
year, and, as the Parliament hasn’t even now finished
paring away the tariff, the end of the trouble is not yet.
The Westralian vote is largely responsible. The Westra-
han members go on the simple but brutally-selfish prin-
ciple that their State, being still allowed to collect border
duties, can do with a low tariff, and what may happen to
the other States which are not allowed to collect bordei
duties doesn’t signify.
• » * *
The Royal Bank of Queensland :
Dividends Total
Profits. and Divi- Written
dend Tax* * serves
Dec., 1895.. £6033 2J per cent. =£4430 £37155
June, 1896.. 6445 2£ „ „ 4922 £4OOO 34,678
Dec., 1896.. 6515 2£ „ „ 4922 36 271
June, 1897.. 7463 2£ ~ ~ 5414 _ 35’320
(£19,483 capital forfeited and written off) ’
Dec., 1897.. 7140 2J- per cent. =£5075 40 05
June, 1898 7460 2£ „ „ 6075 3000 40,*0K
Dec., 1898.. 7579 2£ „ „ 6075 425,-4
June, 1899.. 7830 2J „ „ 5075 _ 45’329
(£1463 capital forfeited and written off)
Dec., 1899.. 8322 ,2J per cent. =£5056 48,595
June, 1900.. 8384 2£ „ oX'.G 3000 48423
Dec., 1900.. 8434 2£ ~ ’5 >■ _ 51 801
June, 1901.. 8657 21 ~ ( , 5.166 55’402
Dec., 1901.. 8758„ 0080 3000 6sioBo
June, 1902.. 9024(3, P-C-Ord. | 6?00 _
The profits are at the rate of £3 17s. per cent, per annum
on the total shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves) as
at the commencement of the half-year. This is a falling
away from the earnings of the half-year ended December
1901, which were at the rate of > 3 i9s. 6d. per cent. ; the
profits have increased handsomely, but not in proportion
to the increase of paid-up capital, and the sum added to
reserves is less than usual. The additions to reserves
have been as follows :
Added to Reserves.
Dec., 1895 .. £1603 June, 1899 .. £2755
June, 1896 Written off Dec., 1899 .. 3266
Dee., 1896 .. 1593 June, 1900 Written off
June, 1897 .. 2049 Dec., 1900 .. 337 s
Dec., 1997 .. 2365 June, 1901 .. 3601
June, 1898 Written off Dec., 1901 Written off
Dec., 1898 .. 2504 June, 1902 .. 2324
The gross earnings, however, are the best since 1892 and
the reserve is now at the highest point it has’ yet
attained. Through prudent management and moderate
dividends it is growing steadily, and it is separately in-
vested in State securities—a system which can’t be too
much commended. At the same time, it is to be hoped it
isn’t all in Queensland securities. A continuation of the
present method of government may yet make Queensland
securities waste paper.
One complicated feature of the situation is this •
Some time ago it was announced that the Royal Bank of
Queensland proposed increasing its capital by the issue of
£300,000 worth of ?>!> per cent, preference shares The
balance-sheet for December 1901, which first reached
this office, made no mention of any preference capital
having been issued, and described the dividend as simply
3 per cent. A later balance-sheet of same date said that
the dividend was 3 per cent, on ordinary and 31 per cent
on preference capital, and it was intimated that a smali
number of preferential shares had been taken up but
still the amount wasn’t stated, capital being all lumped
together in one line. The present balance-sheet again
fails to distinguish ordinary from preference capital and
simply 7 speaks of the dividend as 3 per cent., though the
preference shares, whatever they amount to, must
receive 3J per cent. This is rather a tangled wav of
doing things and calls for amendment. The capital has
increased by rather over £31,030 during the half-year
but how far this is owing to the issue of preference shares’
or bow far to the calls recently made on ordinary capital’
doesn’t appear. ■ ’
During the past half-year deposits have in-
creased by about £2OOO, and now stand at £879,322 Cash
and liquid securities (including £59,918 of State securities)


drg
TRAMWAYS. tramways.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Evpry Description o£ Tramway Material.
D*“ Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p. "**S
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel Sleepers,
Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical advice gratuitously
rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Catalogues and Photo-
graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different parts of the World, upon
application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
Norman Godkih, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develops, with option of
purchase, “ bis; prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,"
Melbourne.*
* » * »
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footsoray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for,all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work. *
» * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.B.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
« * * a
Although the severe drought has detrimentally
affected mining, there are still many mines requiring
pumps of all descriptions, and to those we would recom-
mend the A.S. Cameron Steam Pumps. Besides these, a
much-improved Gyratory Crusher is now on the market—
viz., the “Austin”- in style on the Gates’ system, but
greatly improved throughout, and having special features
which make them superior to all others. The agents for
the above are Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, 506 Little
Collins St., Melbourne. This enterprising firm is always
to the front with the best of every mining appliance,
which includes the unparalleled Luhrig Concentrating
Vanner.*
■ * • •
The Austral Otis Engineering Co.’a tender for
the supply of nearly a million arc lamps of Conradty’s
manufacture has been accepted by the City Council of
Melbourne. The same co. has also been entrusted with
the supply of the Launceston City Council’s requirements
of arc lamp carbons.*
* # • •
,£25,000 has just been expended on machinery
alone by the Dunlop Tyre Co., at their big Rubber Mills,
Melbourne. The company is now prepared to supply
Suction, Drill of Air Hose, Packing, Valves, etc. Quality
and prices the best in Australasia. Samples and prices
upon application."
**»_ • ” -
Do not hesitate. Write first post for description
of new Gasoline furnaces—will melt anything, and so must
be invaluable to all assayers. Mr. de Beer, Bourke-street,
Melbourne, will afford particulars.*
* » * *
Assube, August, 1901: “At the end of last
year* the Colonial Mutual had attained the age of 26|
years, and it can point to a wouderful career of develop-,
merit and expansion, During that period the company
has issued no less than 85,372 policies, assuring
£26,085,346.”*
* • • *
Victoria has been paying a Govt. geologist
£lOOO, and a Govt.' metallurgist £BOO a year for a long
time, Geological and metallurgical affairs have been iq
such an unspeakable muddle that these officers had
practically nothing to do. A' few years ago the geologist
was sent to London to represent the State, or something,
In desperation Government sets its metallurgist “ in-
specting ” something or other. The whole hash is laugh,
able. Irvine has given both notice to quit.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Under license from the A.G.O. of A. Ld.
SPOT or FORWARD. LOWEST PRICES.
Storage can be arranged.
HY MARK WALD,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Dunedin and Wellington.
hare Increased by nearly £35,000, and represent £344,021,
equal to no less than 37 per cent, on all liabilities to the
public. This is a remarkably safe and substantial re-
serve, and the Royal Bank of Queensland is a very solid
institution in every way. The shareholders’ funds are
equal to more than half the liabilities to the public, so
that it trades to a much greater extent on its own funds
than most institutions do. The advances are £lOOO less
than they were six months ago, and the increase in cash
in hand probably amounts to some extent for the slightly
diminished rate of earnings.
* m • •
Attorney-General Wise has circularised, through
the N.S.W. Public Service Association, all present con-
tributors to the State Superannuation ,Fund to ascertain
how many would take advantage of the Bill dealing with
the fund, as drafted by the Association, if passed. The Bill
suggests that all contributors to the fund should sur-
render their claims in return for Treasury Bills bearing
3 per cent, interest with a 10-years currency. This would
mean, in effect, that the Government would wipe out the
scandal of this insolvent fund by a 10-years’ loan, which
another Government would have to pay. It is a charac-
teristic N.S. Waley proposition.
• • * •
The Haymarket Permanent Land, Building,
and Investment 00. (Sydney) :
Profits. Dividends. serve's.
Nov., 1896 .. £39,682
„ 1897 .. £452 Nil £452 40,134
„ 1898 .. 477 Nil 477 40,611
„ 1899.. 1401 1J per cent. =£lo9o 311 40,922
„ 1900 .. 2344 3 „ „ 2201 143 41,065
„ 1901 .. 2369 3 „ „ 2271 98 41,163
May, 1902 .. 1197 3p.c. (about),, 1170 27 41,190
The exact amount absorbed by the dividend, and conse-
quently the exact state of the reserves, is never shown
till six months after date, but the above is a close
approximation. The Haymarket Land, Building, and
Investment 00. never seems to earn anything worth men-
tioning over and above its 3 per cent, dividend. The
earnings for the half-year just ended are at the
rate of £2 os. sd. per cent, on the shareholders’ capital
and reserve funds as at commencement of half-year,
which isn’t at all promising.
A curious circumstance, already remarked on
in this column, is that the Haymarket 00. is steadily
calling up its unpaid capital, and yet its liabilities are
increasing at the same time. Its overdraft appears to be
chronic, and it has hardly any liquid securities, unless the
rapidly-diminishing uncalled capital may be regarded as
such. When the capital is all called up, it seems quite
possible that the co. will have practically no liquid assets
of any kind, its own funds, its deposits and bank
advances being all locked up in loans and properties.
This is the recent record, cash on hand and any credit
bank balances being deducted from the liabilities :
Net Liabilities. Uncalled Capital.
Nov., 1897 .. £104,206 .. £23,916
„ 1898 .. 100,580 .. 22,043
„ 1899 .. 90,375 .. 20,341
„ 1900 .. 87,904 .. 17,917
„ 1901 .. 92,469 .. 15,629
May, 1902 .. 94,279 .. 14,521
For the year ended November, 1900, the earnings repre
sented £2 Is. 3d. per cent, on the shareholders’ funds as
at the commencement of the year. For the half-year just
closed they represent only £2 os. sd. per cent, per annum
on the shareholders’ funds as at commencement of half
year. Between these two dates some thousands of fresh
capital was put into the concern, and even if some of the
old capital was unprofitably invested, and the whole of
the old funds were only bringing in £2 Is. 3d. per Cent,
the new funds should have earned full current rates and
raised the average a little. The fact that the average
interest has dropped a little instead, leaves the share-
holders in the cheerless position of investing fresh capital
in the business at about 2 per cent. The whole affair
gives the shareholders a much worse return than State
securities would do. Under all the circumstances it looks
as if a considerable writing down of values would not be
amiss.
“Subscriber” (Malmsbury, Vic.) asks “ What
shares, not exceeding 3s. in value, would you recommend
as an investment ? ” He mentions two mines for advice.
Thb Bulletin cannot undertake the responsibility of
answering such questions. It is not omnipresent or
omniscient; neither has it anv wild-cat shares to palm off.
* * • «
A startling opinion was expressed in N.S.W.
Parliament last week by Broken Hill Labor members, viz. :
that the mortgagees of a mining property are not legally
entitled to get suspension of labor conditions. The con-
tention is contrary to the spirit and letter of the regula-
tions, which distinctly provide that, on certain formalities
being complied with, a mortgagee shall have the same
privileges and be under the same obligations as the
original lessee. Were it otherwise, there would be, if not
an end to all mining enterprise, a severe check upon it,
as it would be quite impossible for a company to borrow
money. A mining security is such a doubtful thing that
no bank will look at it, and it would be worse than doubt-
ful were the contention referred to a sound one. It is
astonishing that the suggestion of illegality should be
made in Parliament by Labor members, but when
they go further, and argue that it is unjust for mort-
gagees to be allowed suspensions, they become simply
asinine.
• * •
Block 14 (8.H.), wbi«h has not paid a div. for
nearly 18 months, and meantime has converted a surplus
of £20,000 into a deficiency of £7OOO (the surplus, it is
true, was a paper one to some extent) has been forced to
reconstruct. Three plans were discussed : the decision
eventually lay between debentures and preferential
shares. The directors chose the latter. The co. consists
of 100,000 shares, nominally of 255. each, written down by
order of the court to that figure from the original £5.
The proposal is to issue share for share, the new issue to
be worth 6s. when fully paid, carrying a right to a 10 per
cent. div. out of profits, and as to any balance ranking
equally with the old shares. Holders of the latter are not
bound to take up the new shares, any more than recently
the co.’s manager was bound to lose hold of the fortnight’s
wages when the highwaymen shot his horse and put a
revolver to his head ; only if he had hung on he would
probably have been snuffed out, and if the holders of old
shares don’t “ part ” they will be practically snuffed out,
too. If the co. had not been so extravagantly managed
it might have pulled through ; as matters stand it can’t,
and that is the end of it. The only question is whether
the co. will pay its debts by rooting out what are left of
the better carbonates and so spoiling the mine, or
provide the money in the way proposed. Writer
has no doubt the latter idea' is the wiser; and
fortunately the payments are to be made easy
if the scheme goes through ; but shareholders, who have
been deaf and dumb ahd blind too long, ought first of all
to have a clear understanding with the board as to future
management. For one thing they permitted the financial
statements to be unintelligible in some particulars, and
as it proves, misleading in others, with the result that
the co. was really brought into this mess before the
majority of shareholders had any idea of it.
« * * *
Some Broken Hill items: Another “small
movement underground ”at the South. Almost as much
importance seems to attach at this mine to plugging up
the worked-out places with mullock as to the getting up
■of the ore ; in fact, with the hitherto unequalled faces
available, the?,latter is the easier job. And still big
bodies of friable ore crush in. And still, too, the sinking
of that most necessary main shaft away from the ore-
body is deferred. -The British, having come pretty close
to the bottom of its stocking, and having now just a fair
amount of exploratory work done, cuts down hands to a
few pending the recovery of the metal markets. South
Blocks keep pegging away, but the ore-body passed
through is still of wretchedly low grade for silver, and
hardly more than fair for lead—unpayable at present
prices, or anything like them.—-—Later experi-
ences in magnetic separation of the zinc particles from the
silver-Tead ore are not'cheerful; even very small adverse
conditions prove sufficient to upset all calculations.
Nevertheless, Block 10 directors report that they are
satisfied with their experiments. Block 10 will pro-
bably drop its much-talked-of electric installation in
favor of a new mill, which is very badly wanted. The
manager, who was one of the pioneers of concentrating,
had to grope his way ; and the present plant represents
his successive experiments—a thing of shreds and patches.
The mine is so shaky that no more plant will be put on
top; the new mill will be about a third-of-a-mile from
the lease.
• * * *
Girilambone (N.S.W.) reconstruction scheme
completed. Work to be resumed shortly. This would be
an ideal mine for the leaching-process miracle-workers to
tackle. Thousands of tons of oxidised tailings, containing
about 30 per cent, copper, and unlimited quantities of
suitable material in the mine. Funds permitting, co.
should sink to 1000 ft. and thoroughly explore the country
in quest of sulphide to blend with the oxidised ore — i.e.,
assuming that the leaching men are not game to show
their faith in their schemes and demonstrate their efficacy
at their own expense.
• * • •
North Lyell being steadily drawn towards the
tentacles of Mt. Lyell. _ North directors have issued a
report re smelting. It is so indefinite as to lead to the
suspicion that there is something more serious than is
disclosed. Reverb, furnaces said to be doing effective
work but are too big and too cumbrous to be economical.
This is the verdict which one would naturally expect. It
is a revival of the opposite views of Welsh and American
smelters as to the capacity of reverb, furnaces. Modern
practice in America favors very large furnaces, but Welsh-
men still swear by little ones. Macarthur, London director,
talks largely about a blast-furnace plant and other ex-
tensive equipment. But tall talk of this kind means a
long bill and co. has not the wherewithal. Amalgamation
with Mt. Lyell seems unavoidable.
* * • *
Some brass-fronted syndicate-promoter or other
is always knocking at the door of Tas. Minister of Mines.
Following on the months-long advocacy by the local
Mercury of freehold tenure for mining sections, a syndi-
cator, who claims to represent certain Briti h investors,
has just extracted a promise from Minister Mulcahy to
suggest to Parliament the sale, for a lump sum, of cer-
tain leases of mining sections for 21 years. In view of
the power of suspending labor conditions which Tas.
Minister of Mines already possesses, it is admitted that
no such legislation is called for. This admission has set
Zeehan Miners’ Assn, hunting for the syndicator’s little
axe. If they find it before Parliament meets, the shifty
Mines Minister will probably need to say his prayers.
That is, if the Z.M.A. isn’t too tired.
« * • *
Wallaroo and Moonta Co. had such a dazzling
time in 1899 and 1900, when copper averaged just over
£73.}, that it carried to 1901 a credit balance of £91,266.
Early in 1901 the shareholders got £32,000 of that; but
the slump and a mistake or two of the directors wiped
out all except £l5OO of the balance. The co. had the
awful luck to start lead-smelting at the tail end of 1900,
when it also got in a stock of ore to keep the furnaces
running. That experiment panned out like this : Cost of
plant (parts of it, they say, can be used for other things),
£41,334 ; loss in smelting operations (they reckoned on a
5 per cent, dead loss, and found that it was actually 13
percent), £ll,OOO ; loss through slump in silver and lead,
£22,000 ; total, £74,334. It isn’t usually a fair thing to
join in the howl at directors when the market goes back
on them, but in this case they do seem to have gone into
the risky gamble of silver-lead smelting without knowing
enough about the game. They argue that they consulted
H. H. Schlapp and others ; but that was not about the
business prospects of lead-smelting—only about the p ant
to put down. Added to the loss through this experiment,
now, of course, abandoned, is another of £47,777 through
the fall in the value of the copper stocks ; but that is not
an out-of-pocket loss—the co. is simply that much poorer
than it was once fool enough to think it was. The direc-
tors have had loads of bricks thrown at them for keeping
so big a stock of copper on hand ; but, as a matter of
fact, very little of it is metal —most of it is in some stage
or other of extraction. More bricks are thrown on
account of an agreement made with the Phosphate Co.,
formed to work up the parent co.’s waste products. The
board’s reply is that, after its lead experiment, it was nob
willing to put £25,000 more into further experimental
plant. What ruffles the shareholders, though, is that
this experiment is turning out all right, while the one of
which they had to stand the racket turned out all wrong.
The directors sweeten shareholders with the promise that
they will probably make ' 65,000 a year for the next seven
years out of the waste dumps, which are now being
treated by leaching with sea-water.
* * * *
Apropos the leaching of waste dumps, a curious
difficulty has come to Broken Hill. The main street there
is parallel to the lode, and the buildings, in some parts, go
back to the mine-leases. On the rising ground between
the streets and the mines the slimes and other sloppy
waste from the mills are dumped ; and thus artificial
springs are formed, which every cellar in the neighbour-
hood taps.
* • * *
Adelaide brokers are having a merry time with
Smith’s Creek tin shares. Bears were caught napping
and were subjected to a vigorous hug, shares being run
up to over 40s. against them. Market value as variable
as the winds. Mine may be all that it is reported as, but,
excepting as a gamble pure and simple, there is no justi-
fication for present prices. Co. registered only two or
three months ; calls are being made ; there is no plant,
and before actual production stage is reached reconstruc-
tion or extensive borrowing is inevitable.
• • • *
“ Chasselas ” writes : Bulletin’s verdict re the
Mt. William (Vic.) goldfield has panned out correctly.
More gold was spent, on' the field in various ways than will
ever be taken out of it. West riding of the shire of Ararat
is ruinously in debt through making roads to the field, and
Govt, has sunk a few thousands with no result. Field
has buffered badly all round, no payable claims have been
worked for months, and the few dykes on the Sugarloaf
are hopeless concerns kept before the public by means
known only to the initiated. What little gold was taken
from the field has been swamped in legal expenses.
There’s more law amongst Mt. William miners per head
of population than in any other place on earth. Pubs,
law, tumble-down bark kipsies, of such is the field of Mt.
William.
• * • »
The two latest developments on Ch. Towers
(Brilliant Blocks and Papuans) will be welcomed from
Adelaide up. Both have been in the doldrums for years,
and the Blocks made calls with painful regularity. Each
has jumped over 100 per cent, within the past week or
two.
• • • •
During 1901 Gt. Boulder Prop, produced gold
to the value of £40,200 monthly, of which £17,800 was
expended on the mine and £1250 in London. Chairman
Doolette informed shareholders that “ the gold did not
reach the bank in'London, and was therefore not available
for divs. until about three months after it was advised to
them.” Were the gold sent to Perth mint and proceeds
cabled, or mailed, to London, the money would be avail-
able in less than half the time, and at an immense saving
in cost. The charges on consigning gold in large parcels
to' London pan out at 295. 4d. per cent, against Perth
charges of 16s. 4d. per cent.—a saving of 13s. per cent.
To remit the profits to London would cost 2s. 6d. per
cent-., which would increase Perth charges to 17s. Bd. per
cent.’ and proportionately reduce the saving. On last
year’s production this saving would have realised £2BOO
in addition to the amount expended in re-remitting
necessary hinds to mine.
• • * •
After long delay the actual results from
Hampton Plains (W.A.) have been published. From the
Merry Hampton 922 tons yielded 2610 z., or 5 - 66dwts. per
ton, and from the Queen 615 tons returned 410 z., or only
l-33dwts. per ton. The stone before treatment was
alleged to assay 7T5 and 4 - 25dwts., so that the actual
saving was 79 and 31 per cent, respectively} ■■ Treatment
is to be resumed after erection of a cyanide plaiß, but
writer isn’t at all sanguine of results, and is afraid-that
management has overrated the potentialities of the
mines.
• * * •
Queen Margaret, Bulong (W.A,), has struck- a
new lode carrying good gold in the north, or Whitehorse,
block, in cross-cutting east. This same lode was met
with in the long east cross-cut at 600 ft. in south block,
but was of so little value that it was neglected. The
stopes are looking better than they have done for long
past, but the mine has proved so patchy that its shares
can’t be recommended. Chairman Harvey Patterson has
returned to Melb. after an extended outback trip. He
has located one or two fresh finds per divining-rod, in
which he is an ardent believer. These finds are _ now
being practically tested, and, if successful, will give a
great fillip to the Black Art. As a saver Mr. Patterson is
also testing a 6ft. reef strongly outcropping on the sur-
face, and estimated to be worth an oz. to the ton.
* * * *
A serious scandal has occurred in connection
with the metallurgical and assay departments of the L.V.
Consols, W.A., certain members of which have been sum-
marily dismissed by the manager. All sorts of stories
are being bandied about, but the usual “ hush” policy is
being pursued. As one of the victims has suicided, it
will be difficult to entirely squelch the affair.
* * * *
At last some specific details are to hand re costs
in W.A. of the Sulman-Teed process, erroneously called
Dr. Diehl’s. Total cost on 41,000 tons, yielding 61,3770 z.
(or, say, 30dwt. ore) at L.V. Consols, were 30s. per ton.
Chief items of expense—chemicals, Bs. Id. ; labor, 4s. 9d. ;
water, 4s. 2d. ; fuel, 3s. 9d ; upkee >, Is. lOd. ; com-
pressed air, Is. lOd. ; sundries, 3s. lOd. ; and royalty,
Is. 9d. For a wet process, the cost of fuel seems exces-
sive, but is quite eclipsed by the extravagant cost of
chemicals. The royalty of Is. 9d. per ton, equivalent to
Is. 2d. per oz., is a mere bagatelle in comparison.
* m * an
Great Fingall Consols (W.A.) is opening out
richer than ever at No. 8 level. In the south drive the
reef is 40ft. wide, and worth 30z., while in the north drive
12ft. of stone is exposed of the same value. Winzes have
been started in both drives, as well as rises to connect
with No. 7 level. The 60-head mill is in full swing,
though the new Day Dawn shaft is not quite ready for
hauling. The plant now in operation is one of the best in
the State, and is very compact. In same locality the
West Fingall can show good gold, but only to a limited
extent so far, while the Cue Exploration—under new
manager, Hoskins—is prospecting by diamond drill, and
should come to the front shortly. Hoskins has a good
reputation in S.A., where he cleared expenses on a 4£dwt.
show with a rattletrap 10-head mill.
* * * *
The diamond drill in the Associated Northern
(W.A.) has passed a lode at a vertical depth of 912 ft.
This ore body is 12)ft. thick, and the average assays of
the core pan'out 20'56dwts. per ton. The main shaft, the
sinking of which has been suspended at 580 ft. for months
past, will probably be put down to thoroughly test this
new find. The 550 ft. or 7 level, is still providing sen-
sationally rich ore. Stated that French expert Weill, who
was inspecting this mine for Lord Rothschild, on seeing
this level, cabled a glowing report to his principal.
• * * *
Bewick Moreing & co. have tentatively made
an offer to the Govt, to construct the Goldfields-Esperance
railwav, but it is unlikely that the idea will be enter-
tained) The competition of such a railway would be
bound to have a more or less serious effect on existing
line, and the Govt, dare not risk this competition being
in hostile hands. The proposal may, however, lead to
Govt, taking on the job itself.
m ■ * * *
The Eastern lode at the 600 ft. level of Brown
Hill Extended (W.A.) is proving very patchy, and a mere
repetition of the same body in upper levels. A winze has
followed the lode for 60ft. below this level with no better
results. Speculators, Who were induced to purchase
scrip on the strength of the glowing reports published a
short time back, have a genuine grievance against the
wire-pullers. But that won’t give them back their
money.
■ • * »
The calls made on shareholders of Brown Hill
Central (W.A.) are not being responded to, and it is
highly probable that operations will soon permanently
cease. The mine never justified its existence, and the
many promises of test crushings have not been ful-
filled. How experienced mining men could be induced
to quite recently try to stimulate wavering shareholders
with specious predictions is not easily fathomed.
London cables state that Hannan’s Brown Hill
and Oroya are to be amalgamated with capital of £450,000
in £t shares, of which Brown Hill is to be allotted 155,000
and Oroya 295,00 k Brown Hill co. to advance £40,000,
to be repaid from profits. Proposal is perfectly absurd
and wholly one-sided so far as Oroya is concerned.
Brown Hill mine is practically depleted, while Oroya is
virgin ground with immense possibilities. Oroya,
moreover, has 14,000 reserve shares, whose sale would,
provide a complete 50-head plant similar to Horseshoe’s,
and capable of treating 6000 tons monthly. Moreover,
the possibilities of the rich chute are huge. In adjoining
Iron Duke 7000 tons have already been treated for
50,0000 z., worth £200,000, and there is no reason why
Oroya, which has the possibility, if not the certainty of a
longer run of this rich chute, should not do equally well.
Moreover, no one has any confidence whatever in the
Brown Hill management since the interests of the share-
holders have been continuously and ruthlessly sacrificed
for the benefit of the London and Hamburg octopus. If
shareholders have any sense they will keep out of the
clutches of the people who foisted those German coffee-
mills on the Brown Hill at a cost of over £270,000.
* •* * *
Reproached for their greed and scared by the
threats of boycott made by Kaufmann and others, the
monopolist dynamite co’s have tardily consented to an
all-round reduction in the price of explosives. Gelignite
has been lowered 9s. 9d. per case by the Nobel Trust,
while blasting gelatine has been marked down 17s. per
case. A further reduction of ss. per case in the price of
gelignite is on the tapis ; meanwhile, the use of blasting
gelatine at 755. per case will, if economically handled, be
found most profitable. As the monthly explosives bills of
the Golden Horseshoe, Ivanhoe, Boulder, and Lake View
Consols range from £BOO to £l5OO, the saving effected by
the recent reductions will be no mean item.
* • * *
Developments on the L.V. Consols are being
pushed ahead at the rate of nearly 1250 ft. monthly, but
so far results have not justified expenditure. The main
shaft is down 1200 ft. odd, and exploitation is going on in
ever}’ level down to 1000 ft. Manager Prichard is proving
himself a real hustling Yank.
* ■* * *
Gt. Boulder Perseverance has declared its
usual quarterly dividend of 10s., equivalent to £87,500,
payable July 15. The work of development goes on
uninterruptedly, and both Perseverance and L.V. Con-
sols lodes are now being opened up at the 900 ft. level.
So far aspne can possibly learn, prospects continue satis-
factory.
* • * »
E. Murchison United (W.A.) is jiow drawing
part of its battery supplies from Wahroonga South mine,
now connected by seven miles of tram. During May
co. treated 4182 tons for 19930 z., of which 5510 z. came
from the Wahroonga. The stone treated averages only
9£dwts. per ton —which proves either that eosts in W.A.
are being materially reduced, or that the mine isn’t
paying its way. In any case, the outlook for shareholders
seems gloomy.
• * * *
Lake Way district (W.A.) is looking well and
is employing 60 heads of stamps. Unfortunately the ore
is refractory and contains antimony which is causing
trouble. Bewick, Moreing and co. have large interests in
this quarter.
* * * *
Encouraged by the success of the Gympie mine
owned by them (acquired for them by the late James
Dick) Glasgow speculators are negotiating for a deep-
sinking project. Said that £lOO,OOO is available for the
scheme, and it will take all this to do the work out-
lined. Govt., on being satisfied as to genuineness of co.,
will grant a special lease of 250 acres.
* * *
That splendid S.W. Maitland coal, seam is
rapidly being" developed at the Pelaw Main, Heddon
Greta , and “ Stand Up Murphy ” (Stanford Merthyr)
collieries. The dip being favorable all three are worked
by tunnels driven into the outcrop. A bore on N.
boundary of Richmond Vale estate struck the top seam
at 700 ft. and the second (which outcrops at Pelaw Main)
at 800 ft. Likewise a 17ft. seam on the Aberdare estate.
The A. A. 00. luis also, struck coal of good quality. The
Pelaw Main seam is 18ft. thick. Heddon Greta runs to
32ft. in places. “Stand Up Murphy ” stands at 19ft. odd
of which Bft. bottoms are being worked. The miners at
these collieries are paid 11s. per day for hewing 13 skips
of coal and the fillers are paid 7s. per day. It is quite
possible to pack a ton or more coal on a skip, but taking
the average weight to be 12cwt. per skip, this equals
2s. 3d. per ton for “ shandy ” (big and small coal mixed) or
9d. per ton less than the union rate of Newcastle district.
Despite the incfeased traction, the total absence of band
or dirt enables the coal to be conveyed to the dyke far
more cheaply than the Newcastle collieries coal.
*■* * •
Lamentable to think of the thousandsof tons of
slack (small) coal wasted annually. In those mines where
the miner is paid a consolidated rate for “ shandy ” coaj,
of course, all the slack is filled. But where a separate
hewing rate is paid for big and slack coal—viz., 4s. 2d.
per ton for big (selling price is 11s.), and Jd. per tori for
slack (selling price is 6s.— remarkable disparity in’the
two hewing rates), very little slack is filled as slack. The
slack in a skip simply represents the breakage in travel-
ling from miners’ bord to pit top, and all the slack gotten
is thrown back }n the “ gob.’’ Occasionally, when trade
exigencies demand it, the miner is paid Is. Id. per ton
for filling some of this. Draymen: fill a little more, but
huge masses are left lying in the gob. You may have
seen fires on rail way lines with a foundation of “ chitter ”
(jerry, morgan, myrtle, shale, and waste extracted from
coal generally) apparently die out, and then, after a
shower of rain, blaze with renewed vigor, like the genera-
tion of heat by decomposition in a damp haystack. The
same principle applies in this case. Water may trickle
through and drip, drip, drip to the centre of a mass of
slack. Result—ignition by spontaneous combustion.
It’s only a “gob” fire, but, lacking instant detection,
how much of our best manhood have these “ gob ” fires
cost us ?
• • * »
Cattle prices in Sydney: sheep up to 495.,
lambs to 205., bullocks to £l4 i.ss. Owing to ruling meat
and vegetable prices, the leading restaurants have raised
prices 25 per cent. The “ shilling grill ”is now Is. 3d.
• • * »
Authoritatively stated that Frank Hartmann,
who lately retired from the management of Lake View
Consols, is returning : to resume charge of Ivan hoe South
Extended, and the Southern Development mines, which
he formerly leased. These properties are controlled by
Kanffmann, who accompanied chairman Govett at time
of the Hartmann exodus Any wonder that public con-
fidence in W.A. mines is a minus quantity ?
* * * *
The near approach of the Great Water Scheme
may he gauged from the fact that the dam on Mt. Char-
lotte, Kalgoorlie, to be used for the reticulatipn of water
to the town and mines,'is now being excavated. Pro-
bably another six months will lapse before the fruition
of the project, but the prospect of buying water at ss. per
1000 instead of Bs. per lOOgals. is very cheering to
residents, not to mention mine-managers.
* * * »
Perth (Westralia) Morning Herald, the paper
which bade all good citizens to vote against the late
Premier Leake, because he proposed to build two railways
out of revenue instead of borrowing the money, Fas
another outbreak (June 20): - l i, , V. ;
“It is doubtful if there is - another- goldfield in
the world that can show so rich a result. It seems
that each gold miner employed in Westralia pro-
duces wealth to the extent of about £lOO per annum, aud
whilst such a record as this is maintained there need be
no fear as to the future of. the industry. ... • It is
necessary that something more should be attempted to
encourage the development of the mineral resources of
the State. Further facilities, in the shape Of railway
communication, mi' 1 be given to the outlyinggoldfields,
and the taxation ii. posed upon, the industry must be
lightened as far as possible.”
In other words :
The gold industry, which is a transient one at best, is
just now more profitable in Westralia than in any other
land on earth. ,
Therefore, taxation should be reduced while the
country is able to pay it. It can be increased, if
necessary, later on, when bad times come and the
country can’t afford it.
Goldfields railways should be paid for out of loans ex-
clusively. When these goldfields diminish’and die, and
the unpaid-for railways cease to return a revenue, and
the interest is a dead load to be paid for out of taxation,
then the agricultural population which remains can hump
the load.
When times are good, all public works should be
built out of loans, because the country can afford to
pay the interest. When times are bad, thej' should also
be built out of loans, because the country can’t afford to
build them any other way.
While the gold business remains rich in the pre-
sent, “ there need be no fear as to the future of the
industry.” In other words, while summer lasts, nobody
need have any fear of winter coming.


DAVID JONES*
MIDWINTER
SALE -
SEND
FOR
SALE CIRCULAR
ORIENT Clothing
at Reduced Prices.
Overcoats, Suits,
Trousers and Vests.
MEN’S Mercery
at Reduced Prices.
White And Colored Shirts,
Ties, Hosiery.
MEN’S HATS
at Reduced Prices.
6 CORSE apd BARRACK STS., SYDNCY
HARRINGTON’S
LINE
arareawy-*
ft
Cameras from £5 to £5O
and every conceivable Photo
Requisite and Novelty.
HARRINGTON’S
TRADE MARK
cm
An Assurance of
Good Value.
HARRINGTON’S CARD
H ARRINGTON & CO., Ltd
Photograph Merchants,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY
AND
93 QUEEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Agents:
Craven A Co., Melbourne.
A. L. Tilly, Perth.
P. Ash, Hobart, Ac., Ac.
SOCIETY
In Clinton, Maoriland, where the inhabi-
tant never blows the froth from his pewter, and
has no relaxation beyond watching passing trains
and going to bed at 8 p.m., a meeting was called
shouM l ike Wha Af/° rrn th l f,9 or °n?tion celebration
snould take. After much discussion, a local hav-
townabnl? and solemnly proposed that, as the
‘‘Zmi l- » defunct, the most fitting way of
and a K- ng <‘ T^° ll C^i Je to P rocure another 'bull
and call him “King Edward.”
* * *
Sydney University Calendar for 1902 pub-
lishes the name of the Prince of Wales as a
ELECTRIC EFFECTS.
HE: “So your dress electrified ’em?”
SHE: Rather. ‘ Shocked’ the women
and ‘disconnected’ all the men.”
member of convocation and also as the holder of
the degree LL.D ari eundum. Considering that
-H. K.H. holds no degree whatsoever through mere
vulgar scholarship the solemn recording of the
fact that he had been admitted to the ’Varsity
was carefully omitted from last year’s Calendar.
Ihe authorities were chivvied at the time and
seek now to amend matters by inserting the’royal
name ! As a matter of fact, the rectifying of the
error hardly improves matters.
* »
* *
The attitude assumed by the Melbourne
daiiy papers towards the crowd that demonstrated
in the city on Coronation night (that was to have
been) should be compared with the effusive
ln the ? greeted fcl >e crowd that
pushed and bellowed m Swanston-street on
Peace night. Ihe crowds were composed of
exactiy the same young people, so far as a compara-
tively collected observer could make out, and they
behaved in precisely the same way on each
occasion but on Peace night (vide the press) they
were well-disposed, happy, and eminently lovable
creatures, whereas on Coronation night (as was to
have been) they were rowdy hoodlums, shrieking
roughs, and shameless slatterns, making night
hideous. The reason is plain. Right-thinking
editors were disgusted to see that King Edward’s
condition made not a ha’porth of difference in the
condition of the crowd, which wasn’t to be robbed
or its anticipated booroo by any happenings.
Edward s illness must have spared at
least one Victorian State-school teacher a bitter
! ,a "£ of disappointment. This loyal subject wrote
to the Melbourne press, bemoaning that only two
days Thursday and Friday—were set apart for
Coronation holidays, consequently he (or she) as
a way-back country teacher, would have to wait
tor a train on Thursday morning to take him or
her to Melbourne, and would need to leave the
again on Saturday in order to be back at
school on the Monday morning. Whereas, if the
public hohday had extended from Wednesday
until the following Tuesday the visitor would have
been able to “take part in special services of
or^ r Thn? r H ISef °^ t Q eir i iewly - cProwned majesties
cornnw " ! l nd ® unday ‘ ” The loyal teacher’s
Corotiil l be b ° rne L lr ! mind now that the
s hivoo is being rearranged on
NothiW l d J .u’° re reh ,g lous lines ” than before.
rmWll g ■ eSS than a whole week’s holiday will
Emilia Iu° US P ub ] lc servants with all the oppor-
pf they COU d W , lsh fo . r attending special ser-
ftyj-va fp Player and praise. Why not a week
wilh PT i r ’ Pma,tC i- * i a nk s gi v,n gs and communings
mav hpv°l n httle T' 66 ! 1 ’ or kin S- « the cale
Si Every ardently loyal soul has an
individual monarch. Red-hot loyalty to the
«p m^K S^ on ? P ossl hle to one who positively adores
grovel y 6 S6 ’ and WantS a " outlet f °r superfluous
* * * .
Melbourne took the departure of Lord
U-opetoun in a spirit of cheerful resignation.
J-titJi-e wa,s a g-ooci crowd in the streets, and the
new Marlas ’ passed through two lines of people
tairly well disposed towards him on the whole, but
not prepared to mark by tears their sense of the
importance of the loss about to be inflicted on the
Commonwealth. The dailies, in their familiar,
nighly-emotional condition, talked of the “ex-
pressions of regret,” and “demonstration of
sorrow, and displays of “ profound feeling,” and
what not and What rot, but really it was one of
the most cheerful assemblages that has gathered
in Melbourne. The crowd that meets to welcome
a Governor is generally exactly like the crowd that
meets to see him off, in point of feeling. The
Australian is a gregarious animal, and is never so
. m a cr l wd J otherwise incoming
show tg g Vlce ' re^alltles would have a poor
“So long, Hopey! ” was the familiar
h« wf o ha i sreeted5 reeted His Ex. along the route, and
he was asked every hundred yards or so “ Have
old mau ’” Pa nK ott i 6 ?/ ch . am Pagne about you,
old man ? Obviously he missed an opportunity
of making a really sensational exit. Had he taken
a carriage-load along with him, and flung bottles
right and left among the crowd, he would have
made the hit of his life. The dailies record thlt
Lord Hopetoun broke down” on the station
tirsnt Ul t?f 0 f h 1 be h 6 of P'i ial de P ar tures is the accurate
timing of the breakdown. A noble lord never
breaks down until the pen-ultimate moment.
* * • *
Lord Hopetoun shed no tears over the few
people who got drunk on his gift of champagne in
He caused a letter to be written to
Jtleming, the distributor (in reply to an exnlsinn
tion from the latter in re the disagreeable remarks
in Agjs and Argus) which read •
asted voir/o e h C p y fh ad - eV f ry 00nfidence 'n you when he
be the instrument acting for him in this
matter, and he has no reason to alter his opinion now
i! eS r t 0 take this opportunity of conveyino- his
thanks to you for all the trouble and care voif have
taken in carrying out so difficult a job. -
In view of which remarks it is harder than ever to
understand why H. Ex. gave champagne to a
seeing fh r , < f S fi mab y i-n eeeS t 1 M?" S P eo l jle instead of
seeing that they got five shillings’ worth of good
useful beef and bread and a bottle of beer apiece.
.An aggressive Melbourne Tory to The
Bulletin
Governor-General Hopetoun is certainly of a very mild
and forgo ing, not to say crawling, disposition. Look at
the way he has abased himself to Mr. Fleming, the red-
haired mob-orator, who is always advertising the rbdif
Mr an F, nd - t0 °l rry re , d fla^s a "d flout the police ”
■ Mr - Fleming has always set himself to insulf tho
Governor-General since his arrival. At the Duke of
York’s reception to inaugurate the Commonwealth, Mr.
Fleming, with a red flag and a picked body of men,
burst in upon the Royal Procession, and disorganised
Mayor Gillott, and the D. of Y. so much that half the
ceremony had to be abandoned, and the Duke needed all
his kingly courage to face the rest of the trip. Again, at
the opening of the Salvation Army Barracks, when Lady
Hopetoun officiated, Mr. Fleming organised a meeting
right alongside, which, with the help of Jos. Byrnes’ band,
completely drowned the speechifying, so that Lady Hope-
toun looked less smiling than usual, and cut the proceed-
ings short by precipitate retreat to her carriage at the
first opportunity.
Yet, now, Lord Hopetoun takes Mr. Fleming to his
bosom, exchanges portraits, and employs him as drink-
distributor—presumably to square the rowdy section of
society, and prevent them from making a hostile demon-
stration on his departure.
* * * •
There is much friction in Sydney medical
circles respecting interviews recently had by the
Sydney Sunday and daily press with their pet
specialists on the subject of the King’s illness.
When a poor but grateful patient expresses in a
suburban or country paper his appreciation of his
doctor’s attention, the British Medical Associa-
tion, through its local branch, informs the doctor
concerned that such testimonials come perilously
near self-advt., and hopes he will see that it
doesn’t occur again ; but to rap over the knuckles
doctors in high places is apparently quite another
matter. Considering the way in which doctors
differ in their opinions, the “information” derived
by the public through these interviews is a very
uncertain quantity, and dangerously patchy.
N.S.W. Board of Health reporting on 186
samples of wines and spirits collected in Sydney
during 1902 has this as the best to say :
The spirits yielded no instances of gross adulteration,
many of them being made from good white spirit,
flavored with an appropriate essence, and blended with a
proportion of genuine mature spirit. (Bulletin italics.)
These materials are not in themselves objectionable, and
such spirits cannot be condemned as unfit for human
consumption. The wines, however, were of very poor
quality, and in most cases betrayed their inferiority by
the presence of saccharin and antiseptics of various kinds.
It would disquiet many people if they knew
exactly how much (or how little) real whisky and
brandy is consumed in Australia.
* • » *
N.S.W. public has to suffer much for
want of effective health regulation (there is a
Public Health Act giving fairly wide powers but
it is so ineptly administered as to be almost use-
less). Latest disgusting revelations come from
Glen Lines. The Mayor of that town complains
of agents of canning companies buying dropsical
and emaciated sheep and ancient rams —pre-
umably for use as human food. He instances
the purchase of one lot of several thousands of
animals at Is. 9d. each, at a time when a reason-
ably fat sheep is worth from 255. to 40s. ! Car-
cases of these sheep, he avers, weighed only from
10 to 151bs. ; the flesh was stripped off, salted and
consigned to a meat-preserving co. Ugh, canned
cancer and potted dropsy 1 Just at the time of this
exposure came the report of a public declaration by
a member of the N.S.W. Government (Mr. F. B.
Sutter) that diseased animals should not be
‘‘altogether condemned ” at the slaughter yards,
1 but only the affected parts.” There doesn’t
seem to be even a rudimentary idea of food-clean-
liness in some people—rich, sleek, well-groomed
nice-looking people too. If Mr. Frank Suttor
into private practice what he professes in
public that bluff old dolphin Admiral Rawson had
better see that the gentleman with broad views as
to diseased cattle is not on the house-committee
of the Australian Club before he drops in there
for a chop.
WHAT MIGHT BE EXPECTED.
REGISTRAR: “ What’s their names?”
THE MOTHER: “ Lady Smith Victoria, and
Robert Puller Mafeking.”
REGISTRAR: "What’s their surnames? ”
THE MOTHER: “ Oh! well, it’s just this way,
please, sir, I went to see one of the con-
tingents off, and”
Rev. Matthew Walker, of Lucknow,
N.S.W., has gone to gaol for six months for
perjury. This gentleman, since he started
as a clergyman (he had been a Wesleyan lay-
reader) of the “Independent Church,” has
had a stormy career. After some minor troubles,
he was cast in damages for slandering a young
man who wanted to marry one of his churchy-
members. Then his house was burnt down, and
he drew some insurance money, but refused to pay
the damages due to Arthur Harris, whom he had
slandered, and swore in a oa. sa. case that lie hadn’t
drawn the money. Next step was a charge
against Harris (by Walker) of breaking p.nd
entering and stealing. That has yet to be heard.
Meanwhile Walker has been found guilty of per-
jury and sentenced. He deserves a certain
amount of sympathy for his bad luck. If all the
perjurers in N.S.W. law courts were sentenced
the gaol population would double in a day. The
game that Walker was evidently placing is fairly
familiar in the State, and has succeeded in some
notable cases.
* * * *
A youthful Melbourne letter-sorter, who
was in trouble recently, brought a parson and a
Sunday-school teacher to the court to testify to his
previous good character. He had regularly
attended the ministrations of both these persons ;
nevertheless his downfall will doubtless be ascribed
to “our godless system of education.” But the
time will surely soon come when churches and
Sunday-schools will have to call evidence as to their
own character. They are beginning to be known
to a great extent as the places that the dishonest
youth haunted before he was found out, and the
Sunday-school teacher especially seems to be a
habitual companion of thieves, judging by the
frequency with which he turns up to testify that
nothing bad was known against the bad character
m the dock till his misdeeds could no longer be
concealed.
THE OFFICE BOY.
[Fqr The Bulletin.]
Our editor’s the meekest man
That ever wielded pen,
Or told a grieved contributor
What day to call again ;
His sub. is gentleness itself,
Like all whom they employ—
Save one, the counter’s haughty king,
The cold-eyed office boy.
The editor’s front name is Jim,
The sub. is simple Bill ;
The office boy is Maurice Vere
Fitzclarence Fothergill.
He wonders why the editor
Should writing-men employ,
When he could run the rag himself
With but his office boy.
He talks with other office boys
Of such and such a name :
“ That chap is Jones ; he’s pretty fair”
(Jones is a bard of fame).
He says, “ I don’t quite take to Smith ”
(“At Home ” Smith made some noise),
But such may pass with editors,
Yet not with office boys.
Oil ! office boy, whene’er each morn
I mount your office stairs,
To lay before the great man’s feet
Some sample of my wares,
I’m glad that he who judges them,
To publish or destroy,
Is but a gentle editor
And not his office boy.
Constance Clyde.
The fatuity of the ordinary thief is well
exemplified by the recent case of the Melbourne
jeweller’s assistant, who, having from time to
time helped himself to valuables worth about £5OO
in all, pawned the articles as he stole them, and
left the pawn-tickets (nearly 200) lying about at
his lodgings. At last he pawned a ring with a
well-known customer of his employers, when, of
course—suspicion, ’tecs., pawn-tickets, gaol.
GIVE US, WE PRAY!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Q.
Give us, we pray, our daily bread,
Or what the baker brings instead—
His alum, chalk and plaster ;
See, too, O Lord, that all our tea
With copperas duly blended be—
O Sovereign Lord and Master 1
Se nd down, to bless the sons of toil,
His whisky fraught with fusel oil—
No matter how ’tis branded ;
Let pumpkin fortify the jam,
Let fiery drugs inspire the dram,
And send the sugar sanded 1
We dare not ask that Thou would’st see
Our daily meat from poisons free,
That throng the House of Slaughter ;
But dull, we pray, each nose acute,
And see Thy milkmen do dilute
Our milk with decent water 1
And give, we pray, to margarine
A buttery mem’ry in-between—
A sweet, idyllic savour:
We do not plead that food be pure—
(Our mixing craze is past a cure) —
But leave us—just a flavour 1
P.L.


■
WEAK-SKSNT6P REAPERS.^
Who are unable to read small printed rnitber, or to see fine
stitching or writing with comfort, whose distant vision is dull
and who suffer from persistent headaches or pains after cloie
application—you may rest assured that you are suffering from
Ageing or Impaired Vision, and Heed Glasses. You
# should visit us, and have your sight scientifically tested, and
be supplied with Glasses adapted to your individual case.
TO COUNTRY READERS who cannot visit us personally, we send, Post Free to any address, with
tions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate and popular SELF SICHT-MEASU.iiINQ PATENT,
you can Test your own sight and determine for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you in
Write for it to —
full instr
By its .
ay need.
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Consulting: Optician,
371 George St., Sydney,
next door to the A.J.S. Bank.
King- and George Streets.
Andat232 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, opposite Agk Office.
In 1841 Ireland’s population was 251 to the
sq. mile, now it is but 137. “ This,” writes an
enthusiastic Hibernian to The Bulletin, “is the
undiscoverable secret of America’s greatness.”
Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Adress.—
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-street
or King street, Sydney.*
m Dis is wot
Igrov/d on
In
MARK
TRAufc
Hi
d
.i** u° uSNES ?a t,VER
C l * v *hp Troubles:
There is trouble at the Homoeopathic Hos-
pital, Melb. Owing to the rapidity wherewith
the nurses are succumbing to a virulent and
apparently contagious outbreak of matrimony, the
authorities almost fear they will be unable to keep
the institution going unless a clause is inserted
into future agreements compelling nurses to
abstain from marrying for a given period. Ihe
only girls who can catch husbands in Melbourne
nowadays seem to be nurses and chorus girls, and
of the two the hospital nurses have the truer pull.
They always tackle a man when he is down.
• • * *
Melb. Women’s Hospital Committee never
seems to be out of hot water now. The trouble
created by the cat element among its mem-
bers has caused the subscriptions to fall off by 30
per cent. The medical profession in general isn’t
speaking to the Catmittee. The woman doctor
that it contrived to get by offering a large and
wasteful salary out of its diminished funds is
leaving. A while ago the Catmittee had resolved
to leave also, but altered that decision at the
earnest, personal request of Janet, Lady Clarke,
the president. Then she went to England and left
the weaker members to struggle on without her.
They are very tired now, and the general impres-
sion is that they will resign in a body ere long.
A perfunctory, grey-haired feeling is coming over
things, and the fallen sister is hardly interrogated
at all.
• • * *
Melbourne’s latest “ serious charge” was
preferred against a suburban husband and father
by a distracted young thing who positively
identified him as the man—time, 9 a.m., June 3,
twelve months earlier; scene a railway carriage on
the St. Kilda line. Accused, a railway booking-
clerk, proved to the satisfaction of the police that
he had signed-on for duty in his booking-office at
6 a.m. and off at 1 o’clock on the date in question.
The girl was allowed to withdraw her positive
identification and her accusation, and say no more
about it. This man was particularly lucky in
having official documents to prove his whereabouts
at a given hour a year ago. The inability of the
average citizen to prove where he was at half-
past nine a.m. a year, or ten years, ago is a stand-
ing menace to our manhood. No really careful
man should do anything or go anywhere nowa-
days without two reliable witnesses.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Legitimation Bill may now be
regarded as substantially safe, and, so far, a step
has been made forward. In England subsequent
marriage does not legitimise; in Scotland it does.
* * • *
N.S.W. minor Judges (e.g., Backhouse in
the Rofe case and Docker in the parson Walker
case) are given to indulging in faddy addresses to
convicted prisoners of the well-to-do or “respect-
able ” class, which stand in glaring contradiction
to the sentence with which the address ends up.
The Judges picture the advantages of education
and position, and so on, which the prisoners have
enjoyed, and instead of, on these accounts, mak-
ing the sentence the maximum, they illogically
wind up by making it the minimum.
GOING ROUND IN A CIRCLE.
EFFIE (the visitor): “ And whenever I take medicine mama gives me threepence.”
KITTY (enviously): “ What do you do with the threepence?”
J EFFIE: “ Oh, I put it in my money-box, and mama buys more medicine with it.”
Major-General Hutton’s general order,
issued the other day:
The sword will not be worn except for ceremonial pur-
poses. The sword belt will continue to be worn as before.
Militarism sloughs its skin and scales slowly and
with anguish. To the military mind beauty is not
skin deep —it is of uniform depth.
Writes an operator at
a big Sydney telegraph-
office :
Apropos the ignorance of a
portion of the public re the
method of telegraphy. Two
young ladies were concocting a
telegram to a particular male
friend. First young lady made
a blot in writing it out, and con-
sulted second young lady, who
said : “ Don’t send it that way ;
George will think it looks so
bad.” First young lady : “ You
write it, Gladys.” Gladys:
“ But I write so badly ; and,
besides, George will know it’s
my writing.” Eventually they
agreed to send it as it was if I
would erase the blot.” I pro-
mised not to telegraph the blot
to George.
* *
“Brumby” tells of a
champion :
Humored some years ago that
a certain music-hall proprietor
intended offering a champion-
ship prize for the “ loudest ”-
dressed pushite in Sydney. In
town one night met a star-
aspirant for the coveted honor,
and marvelled at his splendour.
The vivid ch ck of skin-tight coat
and pants, ornamented with
rows of pearl buttons, is a re-
membrance in itself; but the
centre of attraction was a blaz-
ing-red waistcoat with a double
row of half - sovs. for buttons
and several gold chains and
trinkets drawn across it. His
boots were ingenious contriv-
ances with high heels, blue-
velvet tops, gold-embroidered,
with the inscription “ I love
Liz.” around miniature photos of
that favored damsel, and had
musical - box mechanism and
clappers attached; while his
green-silk necktie was set off
with a huge scarf-pin represent-
ing a silver gallows with a little golden criminal dangling
therefrom. “ Looks like a piece er weddin’ cike, don’t
e,” said the admiring bloke who d mterdooced me.
0n nlv re f errin g to the curious scarf-pin the wearer spat
R]oom ’ ily over h is elbow and remarked : “ Yairse-that’
m y blanky doom.” He certainly deserved that dis-
tinguished end, poor fellow.
* .. _ *
The florid Owe bullivan re the Pyrmont
(Sydney) bridge :
* s starting-place of the high-road to the Gulf of
Carpentaria, and serves many flourishing suburbs and
centres of population en route.
And the writer has stood on a little wooden bridge
(worth about £5O), near Calais, which was on the
high-road to Pekin, Bagdad, Moscow, Calcutta,
Stockholm, and Samarcand. Yet the man close
alongside, who sold a very large drink of wine for
lid., was quite calm, and had been so for 40
years. It is only the Owe’Sullivan who becomes
wildly excited on finding out that one place is
naturally on the road to another place, and that
if you walk through one spot and keep on walking
you comj to some other spot.
After all the years of blither about the
industrious, self-reliant character of the Chow, it
is disquieting to learn that, whereas TV per cent,
of the white male population of N.S.W. ends by
becoming a charge on the State, over 7 per cent,
of the yellow males get to the same bad end. The
Chinaman, as a matter of fact, appears to be the
boss pauper of the community.
THE ENGLISH DOMESTIC SITUATION.
“London, June 11. —In connection with the Coronation celebrations, it
is announced that Queen Alexandra will entertain 10,000 maidservants in
London at tea, and present each with a Coronation medal.”
Re current meat-bill. Many
big Sydney shops, including some
in George-st., now display rabbits
among the mutton and beef. At
Broken Hill, the butchering busi-
ness has advanced still further;
there prime kangaroo steak is re-
tailed at per lb ; while parts of
Queensland have to be satisfied with
goat and galah.
A Melbourne constable, ambl-
ing along his beat, the other even-
ing, happened across a light-hearted
citizen, who had spread a hoarding
across the gutter before his house
and was joyously dancing thereon.
The policeman diagnosed it as merely
Coronation excitement, and was
passing on, when the interest shown
by the large audience suggested fur-
ther investigation. Just then a
plaintive voice underneath the plat-
form besought the dancer to “let her
up.” Then the situation explained
itself. The gentleman reckoned
that his wife had done something
which made it necessary that she
should be jumped on, but having
some scruples about jumping on her
personally, he laid her in the dry
gutter, put the board across, and
jumped on the board. The woman
underneath wasn’t damaged, but she
was subdued and humiliated, and it
was supposed to be a solemn warning
to her not to do it again, whatever
it was. Possibly she was jumped on
personally at ordinary times, but her
sentence had been commuted this
time on account of the Coronation.
Sydney magistrate Wilshire expressed
wonder in court recently as to how prisoners got
free long before the expiry of their sentences. He
had before him a man who, four years ago, was
sentenced to three concurrent sentences of five
years. Worse cases than that ■ are common.
Premier Parkes used to bind his Justice Minister
to make no release without submitting the matter
to the Cabinet. He was sore on the point, for it
10-it him office on one occasion. Something should
be done to stop gross scandals, and, in some cases,
crimes, against the public. Nearly all premature
releases (of course, a reduction of time earned
under gaol regulations does not count as a “ pre-
mature release”) are engineered by relatives or
friends with a political or social pull.
* * * *
The Bill introduced intoN.S. W. Assembly
by E. M. Clark, M.L.A., to abolish the night-
mare pill advertisements, and such like horrors
that have spread their sordidness all over the shores
of Sydney harbor, is a move in the right direction.
But it might go much further than it does without
doing any undeserved injury to the gorilla-soap
man and his kind. It allows the advertising
fiend to rage at will all over N.S.W., the County
of Cumberland alone excepted, and in the County
of Cumberland it allows him to pervade every
place except the shores of Sydney harbor, pro-
vided he can get the permission of the local
council. This proviso shows a shockingly mis-
placed faith in the local council. As a rule, that
bo ly would plaster a boot-advertisement on St.
Andrew’s Cathedral for 2d.
I he tangled bigamy charge brought against
a man and wife in Sydney last week read some-
thing as follows: The lady, front names Ida
Pauline Juliana, first married Bob, who died —at
least he is said; to be dead. Then she married
George, who is said to have had a wife living at
the time, in which ease the marriage with Ida
Pauline Juliana was null and void. (The fact of
George’s bigamy is only a vague assertion, of
course ; even if George had a previous wife living
when he married Ida it may transpire that that
previous wife had a previous husband living, in
which case chaos would again supervene.) Then
it is alleged that Ida left George and married
Thomas, who seems to have also had a previous
wife from whom he was said to be divorced.
Next Thomas appears to have left Ida and
married Lettie. Thomas’s view, judging by the
police court _ evidence, was that he wasn’t
legally married to Ida because her previous
husband was still alive. Her view was that
the previous husband didn’t count because
his previous wife was still alive. The
three marriages of Thomas, and the three
marriages of Ida, and the al eged two marriages
of George reduce the story to such chaos that
nothing is certain or reliable.
Yet this sort of thing is not at all unusual
in Australia. If the first and second and
third husbands weren’t sometimes too tired
to prosecute their joint wife when she
marries for the fourth time, it might be much
more common. A simple and effective remedy
would be for the law to enact that whenever a
marriage takes place a brief statement of the
facts and dates shall be tattooed on both parties,
Divorce, of course, would have to be also
tattooed on both parties, and the death of
husband or wife would be registered on the
survivor. A great deal of the confusion that
attends marriage in the casual land of Australia
would be obviated if it were possible to undress
the register and inspect it on the spot. Of course
there is the risk that a very small woman who
married four times might, get prematurely filled
up, so to speak, especially if she was in the habit
of marrying Greeks with names like Demetrius
Ipsilanti Kolokotrones Popomiehaelopoulos, but
then no scheme can be made quite perfect.
* * •
“Fors”: Fe the apprehended Sydney
water famine. Has it ever been suggested that
the great roof-catching area of the city and
suburbs should be utilised? Could not the water
which at present runs to waste be conveyed by a
special system of pipes to some reservoir low
enough to receive it by gravitation, whence, if
needed, it could be pumped to higher levels ?
[(1) The water doesn’t at present run to waste;
it doesn’t run at all, and you couldn’t get enough
water for a tear off all Sydney’s roofs ; (2) a tank
storing water off filthy city roofs would be the
finest breeding ground for typhoid possible.!
HA! HA!
AUSTRALIAN ARTICLE: “Say, old chap, that's a
nice littte tart just gone past."
ENGLISH SWELL : “ Too much jam for me,
deah boy.”
Sydney newspaper heading, Monday, 7fch
July
A RETRENCHED SOLDIER.
ENTERTAINED AT A SOCIAL AND DANCE.
It was a “ departing soldier,” then a “returned
soldier ” —now a “retrenched soldier.” Things are
looking up.
IN THE DUSK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the sun behind the sandhills sinks to westward,
When the parrots clamor loudest ’mid the gums,
When the silent magpies straggle slowly homeward,
And his lullaby the wearied wild bee hums,
O’er the paddocks matted deep in trefoil clover,
Through the cool air, scented rich with wattle musk,
Down the paths, o’er carpets soft of rushes,
We are stealing to the gully in the dusk.
There’s a little nook by tea-trees girded over,
There’s a log--a seat by Nature framed—beneath,
There is room enough—just room—for loved and lover,
And a cushion deep and soft of native heath.
Love chimes, deep-toned bullock-bells are ringing,
’Possums peep from out the gum-tree’s husk,
Down the bend we hear the splitters singing,
And we softly laugh the chorus in the dusk. ■
via
L. M. D.


rgd
Dress faßßies
Are Stocked bv the
Leading Drapers.
TRADEMARK
“THE VARNISHED BOARD”
A graceful form and well moulded bust
are essential to perfect beauty. Lacti, the
wonderful “Skin Food” is nature’s remedy for
giving back those essentials when lost through
sickness or action of time, and for supplying them
when constitutionally deficient. It fills all hollows,
develops and gives a charming roundness to neck
and arms. Price 7s. 6d. per jar, post Bs. 3d,
Westall Guest, Toilet Specialist to the Gov.-
General, 229 Bourke-street, Melbourne.
“ The Breaker’s ” verses (including a
photographic reproduction of the last, written by
him in Petersburg gaol) are included in “ Bush-
man and Buccaneer ” with a memoir of the life of
Harry Morant. Every bushman should have a
copy of these racy and characteristically Australian
verses. Wholesale of Edwards Dunlop and Co.,
Sydney. Retail of all booksellers; post-free from
Bulletin office, Is. Id.*
Dean Foley,'of M.L., has been rounding
up the young men of his flock. Because they are
single, says the Dean, they plead no liability in.
church support and extension. He was firmly of
opinion that when men reached the age of 25
years it was time they thought of getting married.
Marriage tended to make them better physically,
morally and financially. The marriageable ladies-
of the congregation almost applauded the sermon,
but the young men of 25 (and 255. a week) passed
the plate as usual.
The restoration to health of King Edward—at
which everyone rejoices—was the result of the best
possible treatment plus a plucky spirit and a good con-
stitution. In all cases where a wholesome stimulant is
required medical men cheerfully recommend D.C.L., the
purity of that whisky being above suspicion, as its sus-
taining qualities are above—very much above—par. Bv
royalty and all who know a good, honest spirit when they
taste one D.C.L. is famed as The Whisky of The Wise.
And now add this line to its history: “It Saved the
King.”*
S.A. Govt, has bought, for closer settle-
ment, Mr. T. L. Browne’s Koppio Estate, Port
Lincoln, for £6225. Area, 20,000 acres. A con-
siderable slice of it is under cultivation, and most
of the remainder is classed as “good grazing
land ”; the whole is fenced with vermin-proof
fencing, and is well-watered. Sounds like the de-
scription of some of the properties the other States
are buying at £3 to £6 an acre. Port Lincoln
must be a poor place to have land for sale in when
Koppio goes for 6s. 3d. an acre.
Do you like Coffee?
Perfect, Pure,
Fragrant, Exhilarating Coffee
Then Try
T^H.SmiTH’S
Gold
Medal
Coffee Essence
THE VERY BEST
Australian Representatives:
SWIFT & COMPANY,
7 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY.
P.D, Corsets}
Latest Specialty, Straight Front, Erect Form
{ P.D. Corsets
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
My Deak Arini.— Wy 8,1902.
'“'l, Arrival o( ths Gov.-General ;
return of the Dam; certain big dances: an
ar )d most important
ot all—the fall of ram. In private life ping-pong
seems to fill most persons’ piteous time. P The
triumph of Woman’s Suffrage appears to have ex
comment or enthusiasm. Lovely women
in N.S.W can now vote for an alderman and for
a federal Senator; and if Sir See keeps his
promise she 11 soon also have the right of assisting
to elect the elected person in between—the State
Member. There is already some talk of a woman
candidate at next elections.
His Ex. Lord Hopetoun, looking none the
better for being Marquised, attended the Univer-
sity Sports’ Union Ball, and stayed nearly an
hour. If the press hadn’t told us of his Countess’s
departure we should have known it by the
reappearance of his Ex.’s moustache. The
Marchioness of Linlithgow sets her face against
any Esau nonsense on hubby’s face as decidedly as
she sets it against his remaining here. He has
dined at the Union Club, and with Admiral Beau-
mont, and has had the Rawsons to dinner—in
fact he has either been depasturing at other tables
or having invited stock to graze at his, every
evening. _ Wonder if the Union Club talked shop
—which is mostly sheep—to his Ex. ?
Concerning the talking of shop, this ’dote was
told me by a friend as perfectly new. A local
gentleman was committed to Callan Park (first
floor, finest suite of padded apartments) suffering
from the insanity of grandeur. He believed
himself to be the Messiah, but on all other pdints
was perfectly normal. At one of the Asylum
balls a sane outsider, a woman, was introduced to
the Magnificent Lunatic, after being warned not
to touch upon the subject of his delusion,
and told that upon all other points she would
fand him charming. She danced and talked and
coffee d with him, and, finally, wild with curiosity
to learn if he were not sane all round, she forgot
the warning, and asked, “ And am I really to
understand that X am in the Divine Presence ? }}
“You are, madame,” freezingly replied her part-
n®r> “but please understand, also, that I don’t
talk shop in a ballroom. ”
the King’s illness was announced all the
big Sydney drapery establishments, and most of
the smaller ones, declared war on their stocks-in-
trade. There never was such a unanimous and
general “slaughter.” However, the fears of the
drapers have happily proved bogies—the red will
not give way to black. But, no matter how
“alarming the sacrifice,” how great the “holo-
caust,” I notice I cannot get ah ermine fur for the
price of catskin, or a carracul jacket at the cost of
a terrier-skin.
Melba’s tour has now been arranged. She will
give five concerts in Melbourne, starting on Sept.
24; and five in Sydney Town Hall. The other
capitals and M.L. will be visited. And besides
pouring into the porches of our ears her melodious
distilment, she will entertain at Toorak; and,
when here, at the Australia. Hen prices are to
be 20s. 10s. and ss.
The taciturnity of the Australian who leans
up against la,mp-posts and infests street kerb-
stones is sublime. On Saturday a young woman
stepped _ off an after-dark George-street tram
while it was in almost full motion, and
fell, face downwards, with a significant thud,
Of . the footpath- oungers, not one came to her
assistance or took a hand out of a pocket. They
just gazed at her with the stupid, incurious eyes
of the native bear. A musician-woman of my
acquaintance, who has a reputation for strong-
mindedness, tells me she went for a dummy-ride
before 7 a.m. one day. The dummy was crowded
with women returning from marketing, and
carrying baskets of vegetables. Whilst the
musician was pondering on the Tannhauserishness
of Wagner, or some such thing, a cyclist tried to
cross in front of the dummy and fell almost at the
wheels. His machine was broken to scrap-iron,
and until he arose, merely angry, all thought he
must be merely scrap-human remains. Yet not
one of the lydies who carried cabbages stirred or
screamed. Only the music-woman did both, and,
as she got back to her place, an animated pumpkin
said, soothingly, “You’re from the country,
p’raps—not used ter town life.”
The idea of a memorial to the late Queen came
from Adelaide, and was at first rather silly. A
marble room was to be built and to contain a por-
trait of the Queen. All the States were to con-
tribute, but, as so often happens, somebody’s dig-
nity was hurt and the States disagreed. N.S.W.
took up tlie idea and developed it to its present
form—a scholarship for girls only. It will be the
first scholarship for girls exclusively, except the
entrance scholarships at the Women’s College.
Hoped that the money will be found by the
women of N.S.W. and the school girls. Failing
that, the men of N.S.W. will be allowed to con-
tribute.
Recent number of an English snip-sheet dis-
courses on late Millionaire Tyson:
On one occasion he offered a prize of £lOO to the girl
who would prove herself the best cook and household
manager in the district around his home on Darling
Downs (Q.). A competition duly came off, and the prize
awarded, but the result to the pretty young winner was
almost disastrous. From every quarter of the Island
Continent came letters from w r ould-be benedicts request-
ing her photograph or the privilege of writing or being
introduced to her. Many sent proposals of marriage.
It is a fact that the late J.T. offered a prize to
the best household manager, and the tasks set
included cooking, laundrying, dairying, wood-
chopping, breaking horses,' anrl riding with a bit
of stringy-bark for a bridle ; the prize was £5O and
not £lOO. And it was awarded, but all the rest is
“foxes.”
Gov. Rawson, I learn from the S.M.H., has
been dined at Sydney Athenaeum Club by “a
large and distinguished company” ; so says the
paragraph, which places Mr. Sam Cook’s name
third on the list of distinguished ones. Mr. Cook,
be it understood, has something to do with the
printing of the S. M. H. Talking of Gov. Rawson,
report says that the revival of homoeopathy in
Sydney is due to His Ex.’s belief in that
cult, and that a homoeopathic practitioner
was called into the vice-regal household lately.
If the Rawsons, when sick, medicine themselves
with a winßglfissful of water, taken from a 400 gal.
tankful (into which 3* drops of triturated or
anuted something has been poured), sipped at
iongmtervals, they are good ads. for that kind of
treatment. A circular is out and about inviting
nis estate to establish a h’path dispensary and
Hospital. A site has been selected in Cleveland-
st., facing Alfred Park.
Freemasons’ Annual Ball in aid of the aged
and infirm happens to-night (Thursday). The
bov.-ben. and the State Ex. will be present, and
the grand procession starts at 8.30 p.m. Hon.
secs., A. J. Scott and H. Bray. On the 16th
another worthy charity, Balmain Hospital, will
have a ball in its aid. Vice-royalties will be pre-
sent. On the following night, in aid of the same
institution, a children’s historical and costume-
ball will be held. Hon. sec., H. A. Scott.
A reminiscence of a big Australian charity-ball
last year. A society lady had forgotten her ticket
(which she had really purchased) but the door-
keeper declined the responsibility of passing her
in, and sent for the hon. secretary. Explanations
were reiterated, the lady promising to send the
ticket in the morning but the hon. secretary only
barred the door with her arms and smiled super-
ciliously. Thereupon the lady excitedly cried
out: “ Out of my way, you daughter of a washer-
woman ! ” This had the desired effect, the hon.
sec. abandoning the position at once—out-flanked.
Tears and music last Saturday as the Omrah
wore to sea in a parting storm of cheers. The
i eldwick Quartette and others of the Liedertafel
serenaded. George Grimm (who goes hence to
develop his voice) at the vessel’s rail. They sang
something about as cheerful as a Miserere, and
he, leaning over the vessel’s side, sang with them.
Musical men and women, Miss Mylott’s golden
head showing above them all, stood around and
looked unhappy. Mr. and Mrs. B. 8,. Wise went
as far as Melbourne for a fortnight. Bishop and
Mrs. Pain’s departure attracted some saintly*
looking farewellers. Mr. Ernest Tyson (and a
valet to look after him) departed for Colombo.
At the Queen Alexandra Portrait-Fund meeting,
last week, the Mayoress of Sydney was in the
chair. £3OO will be Longstaff’s price for the por-
trait, and Mrs. Suttor, one of the hon. secs., an-
nounced that £3O had already been subscribed.
.Tempo ball was a fair financial success; other-
wise, it was wholly successful. Many debutantes,
amongst them the Minister for Works’ second
daughter.
Miss Ethel Miller, a singer who has spent cer-
tain student-years in Italy and later in London
under Stanley, gave a recital at Paling’s last
week. In her excerpts from “Aida” and “La
Boheme ” the slender blonde soprano showed a cer-
tain dramatic force. Miss Miller intends to
remain in Sydney, where she will take pupils and
accept concert engagements.
A correspondent tells me of a curious incident
he witnessed in the twilight on the deck of a
Queensland coaster. An amorous youth was
hugging a foolish virgin, and he hugged so hard
that a box of matches in his coat pocket ignited
and set fire to his linen coat and part of her dress.
If he wished to press his suit in words what an
opening he had : “My heart set them on fire,
etc. !”
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“At the railway-station send-off last Wednes-
day, Gov.-Gen. Hopetoun shocked all by his hag-
gard, agonized face. When some warblers broke
out with ‘Will ye no come back again’ His Ex.
actually shed tears as he moved round grasping
the hands of friends and old acquaintances. But
State Gov. Clarke, with his stiff little airs of self-
importance, soon recalled the Governor-General
quite to himself.
“ There were some funny incidents. One fussy,
happy-go-lucky Federal dame poked members in
the ribs, twitted ‘Sir’Alick unmercifully, teased
the White Knight, collared Gov. Clarke, elbowed
his grey lady, and kept the official section in roars
of laughter. Her high spirits were irrepressible.
Better-not-Wally was the extinguisher of the
matron in the end. The artists engaged for the
touching parting songs wanted to serenade the
G.G. at his car window as a sobful finale. They
gathered at the window, music in hand, but found
the Governor still on the platform. They appealed
to the Federal dame. She promptly promised
them the chance to indulge their stipendiary grief.
Plucking Better-not-Wally’s sleeve, she cried :
‘ ’Ere, Captain ; these singers want to have
their song. Do tell his Ex! ’ Wally listened
gravely, and said: ‘I shall.’ ‘Now you
won’t. I know you won’t,’ said the matron
playfully. Wally looked at her and murmured
softly: ‘Do I tell lies, madam?’ ‘Oh, oh,’ she
exclaimed, laughing awkwardly at the stiff, re-
treating form of the reproachful George Washing-
ton. All round giggled, and the lady was heard
no more.
“The State Premier’s wife (Mrs. Irvine) was
the dressiest dame at the station send-off. She
wore a smart black voile, and with it a large,
French hat, contrasting blue with violet. Lady
Hutton, in sables, was the sunniest figure. Lady
Madden, Mrs. Robert Harper, Mrs. A. Deakin
and several other matrons wore black and a sad
air. The Waxellency outdid Gov. Clarke in
sorrow with his soft Hibernian sighfulness. The
Waxie is very subtle in his flattery.
“Wally’s attitude that day of the parting sur-
prised all. He seemed to know that there was no
further need for diplomacy. He had been much
badgered about. All the arrangements of the
Guv’nor’s going had devolved upon him; the
demonstration of the public had to be considered,
the viceregal cavalcade, and the municipal and
other farewells to be arranged. So by the time the
station had been reached Wally was short-
tempered and testy. He was terse to the red-
tape world, brief to social lights, short with under-
lings. Officials sn itched his sleeve, pointed to the
sobbing Governor, and exclaiming, ‘ A sad
parting this ! ’ ‘ Very ’ was Wally’s invariably
short response as he moved on. Everybody
wanted to tell Wally how affected they felt, and
nobody was encouraged in the desire.
“ It is said that Gov.-General Hopetoun had a
specific object in giving his wine to the un-
employed. When he first landed as Governor of
Victoria he found the cellars at Government
House half-full of wine. At the end of his term
he left the cellars full. On returning as Gov.-
General he found them empty, and he determined
to leave them empty , though he had to go into the
highways and by-ways to find people to drink the
stuff.
“ One was thinking (before the contradiction of
the awful rumor was published) than unless John
Bull wants to estrange these ‘beastly colonies,’ he
could hardly meditate pitchforking Pa Brassey
into the Governor-Generalship. . The old man of
the sea, too tuppenny-ha’penny in his ideas for a
State Governor even, would be hopelessly out of
place as Viceroy. It was not only his passion for
thrift that made penny-wise ‘ Uncle Tom ’ un-
popular in this State, where, at his coming, he
was hailed with delight as a hardy son of the sea.
Though at heart not such a bad sort, the Brassey
had no manners to speak of, and manners are
scarce enough hereabouts without Governors giv-
ing a bad example.
“ The vice-regal house-party in those days came
in for much criticism. No one had a bad word to
say for Lady Brassey, and her Old Man was just
an ordinary crude old fogey, but his junior
relatives and proteges were the sort of smart,
shoddy, cheeky set to openly ridicule guests, mix
themselves up in silly if harmless affairs of one
kind or another, and altogether drag Dad into
gratuitous disfavor.
“ A fashionable St. Kilda widow gave evidence
in Vic. Insolvency Court, t’other day, that though
her income was £5 a week, she could not live on
it. Her liabilities were £1043, and her assets
£2O. Her baker was a sufferer to the extent of £22
Os. 3d., and her milkman stood to lose £l3 3s. lid.,
while a leading draper was claiming £l5B 12s. 4d.
Some of the draper’s charges were £3 3s. each for
hats, and £lO 15s. each for dresses. One of the
most extraordinary things about this insolvency
was the beautiful credulity with which everyone
approached granted credit. How could the fair
widow refuse to take things under such circum-
stances, and to live on the pressing charity of her
tradespeople ?
“ The dressing of the Marshall Hall Conserva-
torium students at that annual Town Hall concert,
on Thursday night, was very toney. The audi-
ence (not an oversmart one) marvelled much at
the Solomon glory of all these budding Melbas.
Madame Wiedermann and her clan sat with
Argus critic Morrison and his smart wife, and
chatted volubly with the pair at the intervals.
The singing of quite half-a-dozen students was
up to the standard of the old days when Mar-
guerite Henderson, Kate Samuels, and others
were struggling for a star career. Special efforts
had been made by Marshall Hall for this end,
and the students had been working diligently at
their operatic studies for months to do themselves
and their dusky Apollo honor. Harold Elvins
was the star pianist. The State Governor and
his consort were an oasis in a social desert.
“ One Toorakite said a good thing, the other
day, when begged by the promoter of the ‘ Run-
away ’ amateur show to join the chorus : 4 What
do you want me for—my lungs or my legs ?
Neither are good.’
“ ‘ A Chinese Honeymoon,’ at Princess’ Theatre,
was bound to be gorgeous and dressy, but it proves
to be bright and funny as well. May Beatty, a
Cockney 4 bit of orlright ’ transplanted to China
as hotel waitress, raises some of the heartiest dia-
pasons of laughter when she says she’s so disgusted
with the faithlessness of man that she’ll give him
best and take to 4 breeding rabbits.’ The Beatty’s
cheerful vulgarism of attitude helps her along
even during her flashes of silence. When she
kow-tows to the Emperor, she’s got a rollicking
way of heaving her heels up behind, and, when
the time comes to rise from her abasement, she
rears up wrong end first, like a camel.
“ Although the newly-formed feminine Writers’
Club in Melbourne will rigidly exclude mere man
from its comforts and privileges, except on
periodical occasions, its members were by no
means loth to avail themselves of their male press
colleagues when it came to organisation and fork-
ing out the necessary. The ladies who do columns
for the papers were deputed to get assistance, and
to that end artfully invited the pressmen round to
act as a committee for Donald Macdonald’s
lecture. About two real scribes turned up, just to
see what the concern was like, and when they
found the floor in possession of many women and
two or three hairy poetasters they 4 cleared ’ in-
continently without putting anything in the hat.
44 The crowded, fashionable farewell —I was
going to say chiffon-competition —to Grace
Palotta, in the Athenaeum Hall, panned out well
(what with admission charges, tea-money and sale
of photos) for Canon Tucker’s coal and blanket
fund. None of the smart frockers present out-
shone the guest of the day, who, unlike most
actresses, looks quite as well off the boards as on,
and minus stage-make-up and surroundings, fear-
lessly challenges comparison in good style and
tasteful dressing. The _ Palotta 4 received ’
in trained, black-embroidered chiffon, per-
fect as to cut and fit; its trimming,
typical of present modes, was too dainty
to flaunt its costliness, which only revealed itself
to close scrutineers. Horseshoes of the black
chiffon, cut out, had been replaced by patches of
gold tissue, and on these bases small garlands of
pink-and-blue flowery brocade were applied with
much delicacy of needlework. It’s the work by
hand that raises a gown from the category of
manufactures to that of ‘creations.’ The
Palotta hat, too (it would have extinguished most
wearers) was typical of the headpieces designed
for English wear in Coronation June—a broad-
brimmed white straw with pink straw edge,
plaited on to its rim, and black velvet bow, flat on
its crown. Its salient point was deep, all-round
lace flounce, curtaining wearer’s upper face, and
shading the neck at the back, in imitation of the
old-fashioned lace veil flung carelessly over the
hat.
44 Society supporters of Grace Palotta rolled up
to see her farewell in the Lady Holyrood role.
The most considerable circle-party was a certain
much-gilded contingent, all the members of which
looked like mines salted with rich specimens for
flotation purposes. The principal lady wore an
immense oyster-satin duchesse cloak with Chinese
sleeves. Mrs. Wesley-Hall, who, since shedding
her weeds, has blossomed into, blithesome cheen-
ness, was a dainty little form in black and white.
The Wesley-Hall diamonds are not much dis-
played these days. Another interesting circle
group was made up of Senator Best, Miss Crocker-
Smith, and the Senator’s two golden-haired
daughters.
‘•The Flemington outing on Saturday shone with
sudden-rainbow radiance. The Guv’nor Clarke
party filled No. 2 enclosure, but smiling Lady
Silverlocks and her gazelle-eyed girleen didn’t
attempt much dressing. To familiar sporting
dames was left the bright particular shining of
the day. Mrs. Willie Manifold, Mrs. Bertram
Armytage, and Miss Eva Robertson led easily in
the ranks of garbers. A bold, daring style of
dress was adopted by Mrs. Norman Armytage—a
grey garb with four deep flounces graduating
down the back panel. Touches of custard-yellow
and whipped cream heightened the effect of the
lace-corsaged bodice. A white ‘ Henley ’ hat and
ostrich boa counted to the credit side of her
smartness.
Mrs. H. M. Cox (the Stanbridge heiress of
fame) was as melancholy as a cypress tree, in all
black. Mrs. Percy Chirnside (who grows thin)
combined a light summery lilac voile skirt with a
Polar coat of fur. A black hat, over which tender
ivy tendrils sprawled, was an idea. The autho-
rised black and Paddy-green effect was adopted
by Miss Beatrice Smith—one of the best-dressed
girls in society these economic days. A spinster
got a strange effect out of a high-grade but passing
strange cinnamon-stick toilette, with streaky-white
sugary lines on a coon-brown ground. A Collins st.
dress-builder strutted her hour in a much-flounced
creation of soft cream cloth, having in its French
lace collar a threading of heavenly-blue surah, and
the Terrace craned its pearled and sabled neck
after her. Standing out in the lawn setting were
Miss Blanche Wallace and Miss Elsie Moore.
The former presented the perfect American
straight-corseted figure, in grey and pale violet,
the long-pouched front having a central strapping
of violet silk. A soup-plate hat sat well down on
the head and well back from the serene face. The
‘Dresden ’ Moore was in delicate cream, with a
strawberry flavor about the skirt-edge and the
wide softly-flowing lace-collar. A black and
white chenille hat framed her piquant face.
“Roley Poley Reid was the only Federal light
at Flemington. He sported among the nymphs of
the Terrace, and shed his evanescent humor on
various flutterers. The girls on this side think
the Dry Dog man vastly entertaining.
“It is very softly whispered in Society circles
that a little misunderstanding cropped up be-
tween an eminent (Protestant) couple, and
the advice of an exalted R.G. prelate, who
is soft - spoken and polite in the extreme,
was sought to patch the trouble. The male
partner it was who solicited the holy man’s
help, and the breach was healed. But the lady,
having forgiven, sought in temporary absence a
means of more quickly forgetting.
“Women would skin their pet Persians these
days to sport furs. There is a perfect epidemic
in catty materials and every form of fur—from
bunnycoats to sealskin. The up-to-date woman
relinquishes white ermine for carracul and sables.
Otter edgings for lace collars are approved, and
squirrel tails for toques form the only exception
to the rule of light, lacey head-gear. The ermine
hat is relegated to grey hairs.
“Mrs. Chas. Fairbairn —one of the Osborne
clan—has got up marvellous muscle-strength since
her tour abroad. She is now the Ajax of the
golfing world. No one in all this link-ed state
can drive a ball or swing a ‘ cleek ’ in the same
style. _ Sylvester Browne —now pasturing in the
Riverina —was the only strong man whose
‘ driving ’ feats on the golf-links sent caddies into
ambush, and terrified onlookers up the trees or
into gullies. A tree-clump was no shelter when
Sylvester, the strong man, gota swingon foradrive.
Now Mrs. Fairbairn takes the doughty golfer’s
place as record-maker on the links, and is scooping
m trophies galore from all the cluhs. On Friday
last, the sunburnt sportswoman carried off one
from the Royal Melb. Club, when she started ‘ on
scratch,’and came out ‘ square on bogey ’ —which
is to say, she had no start on some proved experts
and yet scored with honors. All the Osbornes are
mighty in the field.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


WATSON’S WHISKY.
Ho to I Cecil
& Restaurant
Largest and most magnificent Hotel in Europe.
Overlooking the picturesque Embankment Gardens and river.
LONDON.
Moderate Charges:
Bedrooms, light and attendance included, from 6s. per day. Breakfast, from 25.;
lunch, 3s. 6d.; dinner, 6s. Suites, ensuring absolute privacy, from 245. per day.
Telegraphic Address: CECELIA, LONDON.
A. JUDAH, Manager.
Next to the Insurance fiend ranks the
Typewriter man for cast iron nerve and per-
severance. A man has only to breathe that he is
going in for a machine when the salesmen swarm
round him like flies over beef. Brown will tell
him that a machine printing with a shift for
capital letters is only used by persons with weak
intellects, and that if he buys a double keyboard
instrument his troubles are for ever at rest.
Smith, however, scoffs at the'double keyboard
notion and prophesies disaster of the most awful
description to the unlucky possessor. Then up
comes Green with a pad machine and anathema-
tizes all machines printing from a ribbon. The
bewildered buyer, driven to distraction, curses each
and all. The safe and comfortable course is to deal
with a house offering a variety of each principle ;
and anxious to give the buyer the type of machine
best suited to his special wants. The United
Typewriter and Supplies Co. of Sydney,
Melbourne and Perth sells the Yost, New Century
and Densmore, shift key, double keyboard and
pad machine, and they give their advice free- and
also a free trial of each kind of machine.*
Australia.
‘Lightest Wines
in
. th e Duke of York.
Supplied to H.R.H
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Toby Barton, P.C., G.C.M.G., K.C.,
LL.D., D.C.L., M.H.R.
N.S.W. Assembly, for some time without
a knight, again has one in Premier See.
Graham Berry is the sole survivor of the
Vic. .Ministry which Black Wednesday’d the
civil servants.
R. W. Herbert, still alive, gives Walter
James a long lead as youthful Australian Premier.
He bossed Queensland at the age of 28J, Even
fat George Thorne got there at 37.
According to a R.C. paper Cardinal Moran
was expected to leave Rome for Ireland about the
middle of June, and, says Dr. O’Haran, “he has
made up his mind to be back in his own home m
Sydney some time before the end of the year.
There are but three University men
in S.A. Assembly, and two of them (S. J.
Mitchell and F. W. Young) hold Adelaide degrees
inlaw. The other, Squatter W. H. Duncan, is a
Cambridge man, but he did not finish his course.
It’s quite a pity Lord Tom Brassey is not
to be the next Australian Governor-General. If
we must have imported Governors they should be
as comic as possible for the convenience of carica-
turists and the amusement of the people generally.
Monsignor Rigney, reported very ill at
Parramatta, was one of eight priests who left
Ireland for Australia in 1838, and is now the only
one of the batch alive. Four of them attained
episcopal rank, arid three the rank of Dean.
Federal Attorney-General Deakin’s crank
adviser has been at it again :
Am Chamberlain’s muster Joseph and brethren over
again double sense King himself will laugh should not
Lord B. lose rank future thought wise promise magpies
food.
In Victoria a man may be Chief Justice at
29, as there is no age limit and only eight years’
experience at the Bar is necessary ; but to become
a mere P.M., a barrister must have had seven
years’ actual practice, and must also be at least 35
years of age.
Nine Speakers have presided over N.S.W.
Assembly since 1856, of whom three—Barton,
Young, and M‘Court—survive. Six of them
attained knighthood. Arnold died untitled, but
Young stands wistfully looking on, and M'Court
cherishes expectations.
The scandal of “ journeymen” Judges on
the major and minor benches is talked of among
N.S.W. M’s.P. in a way which augurs early
trouble on the floor of tiie House. Perhaps a
score of men have been on and off the bench and
wait to be put on again.
Little Douglas, Q. Inspector of Police,
whose “plan of campaign” is credited with the
capture of the Kenniffs, is an old-country chum
and fellow-sailor of N.S.W. Gov. Rawson.
Douglas is one of the policemen who wouldn’t get
bushed if he 'eft the main road or the telegraph
line.
“Billy” Browne, leader of Queensaland
Opposition, who at time of writing was ill at
Brisbane of chest-trouble, picked up his malady
whilst roughing it twixt Hill End, N.S.W. and
Croydon, N.Q., years back. A hard grafter and
delicately-built, the sword appears to be wearing
out the scabbard.
“There were,” we read, “a stream of
callers at the N.S.W. Chief Secretary’s office to
congratulate John See upon the honor con-
ferred upon him by the King.” “ Callers,” not
“ crawlers ! ” Alas for the good old days when
the festive comp, left the finger-mark of his
originality upon many a dull page.
How effeminate grows the land of beer
and broiled bones ! Sir Tea Lipton gets a
baronetcy, while Barton finds a mere knighthood
on his plate. If they had only made him a Royal
Beefeater, Australians would have cheered for
Bull until the crows came home. Such a chance
of strengthening the silken bonds will never recur.
In Rochester (Vic.) cemetery there stands
an imposing tombstone, with inscription com-
plete, less the date, erected to the memory of a
man still living. The owner of the tombstone,
wishing to make sure that his memory will be
perpetuated in orthodox fashion, erected this
memorial over 10 years ago, and is still hale and
hearty.
Said in Melbourne that an interesting law-
suit is likely to develop out of remarks recently
made by politician Trenwith anent some prominent
members of David Syme’s Age staff. If not
blocked on its way to the Judges, the affair should
lead to portion of the truth coming out with
regard to various questions of much public im-
portance.
Melb. pressmen complain that Premier
Irvine has adopted the Shiels idea of dodging
them by surreptitious exits from Cabinet and else-
where. Meanwhile, Shiels himself has dropped
some of his mystery, and no longer has any need
of secret panels and subterranean passages, or
whatever means he used to possess of outwitting
reporters.
Says London World :
The second daughter of the King, the Princess Victoria,
is the one who possesses the most character—as it is
generally called—and will. She it was in former days,
when the Queen and her daughters used to go out on
excursions together, who kept the time, knew the route,
and on occasion had full information with regard to the
departure and arrival of trains.
What a mercy that there is one genius in the
family !
Rev. Hugh Jones, of Brisbane, on Brunton
Stephens’ religious views : *
I found that he alternated between a most reverent
Agnosticism and the Christian position, dwelling generally
in the former, but looking wistfully towards the latter.
He had “dissolving views” of the higher Christian
position ; he never seemed to get the focus for long.
“Dissolving views of the Christian position”
sums up a good many people’s faith nowadays.
Abel Jones, who died at Fitzr'oy (Vic.),
the other day, landed in Port Phillip in January,
’46, and was one of the first party that took stock
to Cape Otway. In ’49 he joined the mounted
police at Geelong, and became sergeant-major.
Among. his most important captures were the
notorious *6&Gapt. Melville ” (who fired at him
several times), and some of the Nelson gold-
robbers.
The good old dead hand of Edward Wilson
still works in Melbourne. Upwards of £2OOO of
Argus profits last year had to go to charities
under the terms of his will. The Wilson interest
is nine-sixteenths, and a liberal percentage of the
net profits must be paid over to the Melbourne
charities in perpetuity. The amounts get bigger
every year as annuitants die. A sum of £52 a
year each was bequeathed to 13 ladies of Mel-
bourne who had helped to make the old bachelor’s
life cheery.
Pascal Grousset is the fifth to die of the
Henri Rochefort group of six Communists who
escaped to Australia from the French prison of
Noumea in 1874. Rochefort, of the Dreyfus case,
the Cronje sword, and general stormy-petrel
adventures, is the sole survivor. They landed in
Newcastle (N.S.W.), came on to Sydney, and
thence sailed for the U.S. Rochefort himself was
presented with a sword in Sydney, though many
were in terror lest the affair should provoke war
with France.
The death of A. P. Akehurst, retired
public servant (Vic.), aged 67, recalls the charge
of murder made against him in connection with
the Ballarat insurrection of Dec., ’54. It was
alleged that, in his zealous support of the police,
he several times rode over a defenceless miner,
also slashing him with his sword. The evidence
was very contradictory. The coroner’s jury
returned a verdict against accused, but the Crown
declined to put him on his trial. He had merely
killed “one of the enemy.”
Story of Irish Governor Ranfurly, of M.L.
A couple of disreputable-looking Chows lately
hied them to Government ’Ouse, and asked for
speech with the boss mandarin. As an offering,
they brought a quantity of peachee and applee,
allee same, welli ni. Aide-de camp Alexander had
the heathens and their vegetables taken to the
Presence, where they were given a 15min. audi-
ence. At its conclusion, the aide accompanied
them to the sentry-box. “Well, John,” he said,
“how you like him?” “By Cli’,” said John,
with yellow enthusiasm, “ him welly good, filer ;
allee same Chinaman ! ”
A GLIMPSE AT A N.S.W. PAGE OF
THE DOOK’S-TOUR NOTEBOOK.
“Jake ” : The omission of King Seddon
and the inclusion (high-up) of John Morley’s
name in the Coronation honors-list has filled me
with a dread suspicion that Edward VII. (who
“used his personal influence to bring the war to a
conclusion ”) is himself a bit of a pro-Boer.
What a shock for the “ loyalists ! ”
KNOX, M.H.R.
Edmund Barton, who is so un-Australian
in Australia, in England becomes, it would appear
from current cables, almost an Australian
Nationalist. At the Colonial Conference he is, it
would seem, taking up a fairly pronounced atti-
tude of independence and anti-imperialism.
When Toby comes to be judged fairly, probably
most of his mistakes and lapses will be attributed
to bad company. It’s a dangerous thing for a
politician to be a jolly good Toby. George Reid’s
cold selfishness saves him from many an error.
The rumor comes from a rather well-
informed quarter that the new Earl Fitzwilliam is
a likely successor to Lord Hopetoun. Fitzwilliam
dropped into three millions with his title, and
was, until the death of the late peer, a member of
the House of Commons. In the Commons he was
regarded as a clever man quite without ‘‘drawl ” or
“frills.” As a landlord he bids fair to be as
popular as his predecessor —of whom Parnell once
said : “ Were all landlords in Ireland like Earl
Fitzwilliam, there would be no need of land-bills
for Ireland.”
With a misguided desire to be agreeable
Kitchener sent Seddon a “confidential” telegram
about something or other while the latter was in
S’Africa. The great, man’s fatal craving to make
speeches immediately came upon him, and he read
the confidential message to a public audience and
orated about it at great lengeth. The indignant
British officials seized the paper which contained
the report, and it became necessary to print
another edition with the oration left out and the
space filled with anecdotes about the sagacity of
dogs or something.
Adye Douglas, the Tasmanian veteran,
would probably have got a title years ago but for
a vague, elusive rumor, starting, no one knows how
or why, away back in the dawn of the anti-trans-
portation movement, to the effect that he held
Republican opinions. As Adye is the stuff of
which fossils are made, it is probable that he holds
the same opinions still—whatever they were.
But the British authorities have evidently
decided to overlook early delinquencies on account
of the culprit’s extreme youth. At 87 even the
reddest republicanism is apt to fade to a harmless
pink.
Mr. E. A. Rennie, N.S.W.’s aged Auditor-
General, makes no better friends with Treasurer
Waddell than with the Treasurers who preceded
him. The one thing Treasurer G. H. Reid set his
mind upon doing, and signally failed to do, was
the shifting of Nestor from the Audit Office. Mr.
Rennie has been 56 years on the premises, has
seen Treasurers come and go like the seasons, and
has put salutary hobbles round the ankles of most.
He came of scientific and literary stock, and the
traits are perpetuated in the family he leaves to
carry his name. Dr. George Rennie, one of the
sons, was the first Australian to take the D.Sc. at
London University.
Once on a voyage from England-to Aus-
tralia Robert Brough had a sensational experience.
A storm had raged for days and the battened-
down passengers were nearly smothering in their
cabins. Mrs. Brough was faint for want of air.
Though a prodigious sea was rolling, Brough, in
desperation, determined to open the port —to open
and shut it, timing the seas. He wrenched the
port open. Instantly a draught of fresh air rushed
in, and with it the cries of a man “ Help ! Help ! ”
The man himse f, struggling in the water, was
scarcely an arm’s length off. The ship lurched
and he was gone. The vessel stopped, but the
man, a sailor, was never recovered.
The newly-knighted Premier Lewis, of
Tasmania, is now appearing as counsel for the
defendant Marine Board in the V.D.L. Co’s Full
Court appeal against Mr. Justice Clark’s decision
in a foreshore case. As Lewis was for years the
solicitor and confidential adviser of the appellant
co., his appearance against it (even though
Attorney-General) is looked upon in legal circles
as “ a breach of etiquette.” Legal circles don’t,
as a rule, see any breach of etiquette in Cabinet
Ministers appearing against the Crown : it is only
when a private interest is threatened that trouble
is made. Mr. Lewis is surely right in looking
now after his present employers —the People.
“ Tui ” writes re a coronation :
Witnessed the coronation of Cakobau Rex in Fiji 30 years
ago, when the shaggy brows of the sable monarch were
encircled by his white friends with a monstrous diadem
of painted wood and red velvet. He was to be a consti-
tutional monarch, and he took all the necessary oaths of
fealty to his realm with the dignity of a Christy Minstrel
nigger king. The orgie which followed was on a smaller
scale than that practised in Europe, because of the com-
paratively limited attendance, a considerable proportion
of the planters objecting that the production of the
“ round and top of sovereignty ” was a coup d’etat on the
part of a few designing white advisers of His Maj., the
old savage never having previously enjoyed a higher
status than that of a tribal chief. As the Lord’s Anointed
descended from his soap-box throrte there was a more
than regal roll in his gait, but the glitter of his canni-
balistic eye, and the massive wooden sceptre in his hand,
checked undue frivolity. When the final numbers were
up, J. B. Thurston was Governor for Ufe, and the King a
pensioned nonentity.
Rev. Dr. White, of Singleton, was among
the most remarkable of N.S. W. clerics. Of his 81
years he spent 55 preaching Presbyterianism in
Singleton. He married, baptised, and buried
almost every Presbyterian in that part of the
country who wanted any of these services per-
formed. But it was in the scholastic line he par-
ticularly shone. He is probably the only cleric
in Australia for whom a Cabinet of politicians
begged a degree. The Cowper Ministry wrote to
Glasgow University, soliciting some degree, but
the University declined. Pastor White was not
daunted, however. When Sydney University
started he knocked lustily at its doors. He seized
a 8.A., an M.A., an LL.B., and an L.L.D., and,
his appetite thus appeased, he returned to preach
Presbyterianism. He was one of Dr. Lang’s early
pupils, and resembled his master in pugnacity,
only that White’s pugnacity was directed against
books, whereas Lang’s made people the objects.
About the most pitiable spectacle in the
Empire just now is poor old Jingo M'Culloch,
M.L.C. (Vic.), who went ’Ome with a Govt,
“mission” and an ineffable yearning for a title.
Mac.’s Govt, has been wiped out, largely through
the chicanery of the doddering old *party himself,
and he now finds himself without any “mission”
to speak of, if he ever really had one except to
slobber the feet of Royalty. An ingrate Court
has also shown its contempt for men of the
obviously crawling kind by making him a common
C.M.G. And, in addition, the Irvine Govt, has
had to politely intimate to plain “Master”
M'Culloch £hat he is only in England on a fool-
game, and has no authority for doing anything on
its behalf, but may elaborate a report if he likes on
the subject of the Agent-General’s office. Mean-
while, the new Works Minister Taverner is
keeping his eye on the job of Vic. representative
at ’Ome, and will get it as soon as Irvine uts
down his list of colleagues.
THE SIZE OF THE
OBSTACLE.
P EELER: "An’ it plaze
yer Washup, Oi just
requisted the priz-
zinner to move on,
when she ‘ups ’ loike
the divil a n’ wops on me fut!”
PRISONER (indignantly): “ True for him, yer
’Anuerl But look for yer self, what else could
I do? I'm not a joompin’ kangaroo!”
(Breaks dozen.)
Lance Stirling, S.A.’s only coronation
knight (barring Holder, who now belongs to the
Commonwealth), was one of the hard-riding, polo-
playing University men of the ’Seventies. He
went to Cambridge, was called to the bar and re-
turned to Adelaide, where, not caring much for
the law, and not needing to practise it, he drifted
into politics. When Baker moved up to the
Federal Senate his obvious successor as President
of S.A. Leg. Council was either Stirling or E. T.
Smith; and the elder man didn’t want it, so
Stirling’s path to the title was clear.


•THE VERY BEST.
"n DELICIOUS PRESERVES
Fresh Herrings. Kippered Herrings.
Herrings in Tomato Sauce. . Pickles.
Worcester Sauce. Potted Meats. Marmalade.
SWIFT <Sc COMPANY,
7 Spring- Street, Sydney.
Australian Agents.
The HANSARD Fountain Pen
(Authorised by Hansard Staff*
14ct. GOLD NIB
Fine, Medium, or Broad Points.
One Quality—The Best ; One Price—The Lowest, 7/6 (Post Paid).
fg
Barrel of every Pen branded “ The Hansard.” ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTE. Sent to any address on receipt of price
F - LASSETTER & CO., Ltd., SYDNEY. HANSARD PEN CO., Box 98, C.P.0., SYDNEY.
DAVID STORED, & SONS’ ,n Three Colors - 81 - ACK » RED and BLUE
Registered
Trade
Mark.
TATTOO OIL
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE WOOl -
-
The Perfect Sheep-Marker.,
SHEEP BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
Hotel
Australia
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
“THE AUSTRALIA” is loftily situated; from
its dome, the Pacific Ocean can be seen, and the
whole of Sydney.
To its favorable and airy position, “THE
AUSTRALIA ” adds every comfort and appoint-
ment. It is fireproof from tower to basement;
and an efficient staff patrols the building day and
night. It possesses the most elegant of drawing-
rooms, handsomely appointed dining-rooms, cosy
bar lounges and winter gardens. The system
and attendance of the hotel are unsurpassable.
J. URE SMITH (Late of Menzies’), Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.—7n the case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
“ W.S.T.” : A notion prevails out-back
that when wild ducks and other water-fowl build
their nests at the water’s edge no rain is to be ex-
pected that summer; but when the birds build
high wet weather may be looked for. If such is
the case, a certain pair of water-wagtails must
have had a fine contempt for rain-predictions
in the early part of this year, for they built their
nest on the rain-gauge at Gurner’s station, Lower
Macquarie. And their confidence was not mis-
placed : not a drop of rain fell during the rearing
of the little family—nor since, for that matter.
* * « *
In the long run it will probably appear
teat the Lenniffs were, as in all previous
cases, given away by false friends. So far
it is doubtful whether the police have ever
unaided caught one notorious bushranger. Gardi-
ner was given away by a pedlar who recognised
him at his Queensland pub, and each one of his
captured gang was sold. Fred Ward—“ Captain
.Thunderbolt ” —was given away by another haw-
ker whom he had robbed. The Governors were
captured by private individuals, and so with
every “big” Australian bush runaway taken
during the last 50 years.
* * • *
Have often heard of fugitives
“dodging” trackers but never heard of their
dragging bushes after them, thereby enabling a
man with glass eyes to follow the tracks. Sydney
TXT. reports—
That the Kenniffs’ bush craft was marvellous, They
had ridden their horses alongside wire fences, cut the
wires, passed through to the other side, come back to
the original side oi the fence, dragging bushes over their
first tracks, and then gone off at right angles through the
scrub, trailing bushes behind their horses, with the view
of obliterating their tracks.
Now, who says Australia doesn’t produce
humorists of the first water? Writer will sell his
garden-roller cheaply to the next set of bush-
rangers. For obliterating a bushranger’s tracks
there is nothing like a garden-roller.
“ IT’S AN ILL WIND,” ETC.
(An incident of the drought.)
As water in any form is a rarity in the
drought-stricken West an enterprising showman
caters for public demand.
A jeremiad from “ Yarrum ” :
In these dry times people need to be most careful of
what they eat and drink, as, in nine cases out of 10, they
get it dirty and disease-laden. Lots of N.S.W. dairy-
men just now have no water supply for dairying purposes,
and many have only “ what will make tay.” I know a
man who gets water for washing his cans and milk-cloths
from a hole in a gully bestrewn with decaying carcases of
sheep, cattle, and horses. Another man keeps pigs,
which have now to lean against one another to grunt for
the tucker they don’t get. Asked why he didn’t feed
’em, he said, “ Well, I have a ton of pollard, but no water
to mix it with. What’s a man to do?” Buckets and
cans are mostly only wiped, and the separator smells
horribly. If these people went in for underground tanks
they would always have a decent water supply ; but they
are inveterate “ waiters upon Providence.” If this
drought teaches them the necessity for doing something
for themselves, it will in that way have been a benefit to
the country. I feel sorry for Sydney people—knowing
what I know—and I expect any day to hear that “black-
leg ” has broken out among them.
* • • *
“ Trotter” : A Bowen (N.Q.) cattle-man
told me, t’other day, that since ’95 he had lost
15,000 head of cattle from ticks and red water.
Last year things were improving, and, with a few
months’ more grace, he could have rubbed along
for some time, but the financial institution shut
down on him, and he is now, after 30 years’ labor,
cattle-buying for meat-preservers.
: A bit of bad drought news, not. all
unexpected, comes from Condobolin: “Hand-
eeding has given out, and the pity is that it was
ever begun, for now all the money spent is lost.”
so will it ever be while the attempt is made to
teed ordinary stock with bought fodder. Con-
aobolm, like Cobar, throughout the seven years’
drought, has had all the advantages of railway
communication. How much have those railways
done to save stock or squatters ? An answer to
that question would be serviceable to Parliament
when the Owe’Sullivan’s light lines come on for
discussion.
* • * *
From prickly-pear and bottle-tree the Q.
farmers have descended to a mixture of sawdust
and pollard as feed for starving stock. T’other
day an inventive genius went a step further and
gave his cattle sawdust soaked in molasses, which
was eagerly devoured.
* * « «
At Mr. Evans’ irrigation farm, Merriwa
(N.S.W.), wild ducks, driven in by the drought,
have become a nuisance. They flock there in
thousands and eat the young feed as soon as it
comes up. Two keepers are now engaged to slay
them at £1 for every 100 heads delivered.
• * * V
“ Kiwi ” : writes from Maoriland :
There certainly is dreadful child-slavery in the M.L.
dairying districts ; but it is not fair to blame only the
unfortunate cocky. Rather is the sad state of affairs an
offshoot of our alleged land policy. We are in the throes
of a land-hoom which will involve us in hard times by-
and-by. The spending of a million of borrowed money
yearly, the advancing of State-guaranteed loans to settlers
at low interest, and the purchase of large estates for
Settlement all combine to inflate land values. Hence £3O
an acre is now not an uncommon price for dairy land,
though everyone knows that the man who buys land at
such a figure, and then raises a loan to buy stock, etc.,
can never make ends meet. It is dear land, and nothing
else, that keeps the poor cocky on the grind, and in this
heroic effort to save himself he sacrifices his children —
just as poor girls in the slums of great cities sacrifice
themselves for bread. As instancing how land values are
mounting up—land, in Otago, which was bought five
years ago for £ll ss. per acre, sold the other day for £42.
Away north, in Hawkes Bay country, the valuation has
gained half-a million in three years. Of course this is all
right for the land-owner, but not for the land user, and
the majority of small farmers are much more users than
mere owners of land.
“ The M‘Cooey” : Re. cockies (“ C.J.D.,”
B. 5/4/’O2). The cow-cocky is the
most awful and wonderful of the
genus—especially the young rooster.
In the Illawarra district you’ll find
him growing rank and wild. Used
to cows all his wretched lifetime, he
actually becomes cow-like—in walk,
in mode of eating, and in expression. He
jumps up every time the dogs rush out to bark
at a stranger; and, while stretching each arm
and each leg separately— cow-like
again in this —he inquires what day
of the week it is. “ Cockies’ de-
light,” by the way, isn’t his only
culinary luxury. Let “ C.J.D.” taste
“calf-pudding,” and he’ll remember
it for ever afterwards. A calf’s
paunch, stuffed with scrub mag-
pie, water-rat, hog’s lard, eel,
and pig’s liver, carrots, turnips,
pop-corn, goose eggs,
pumpkin jam, rock
salt, and “ Paddy’s
lucerne,” and boiled
for four days.
“Nym.”: A
pair nf magpies,
having nested in
a tree in the
paddock ad-
orning our pre-
mises, assault
with beak and
wing anyone
who ventures
to cross the
paddock.
Our fowls
have always had
the run of this
vacant space, but
now they are chased
for their feathers if
they show their beaks outside the poultry-yard.
The other morning Chanticleer went forth in all
his pride to put an end to this unsatisfactory state
of affairs, and, after an exciting set-to of 20
minutes, was compelled to retire vanquished.
• • • «
“ Emben ” : One effect of the drought here
(Vic.): There are small ants that, in summer,
gather mounds of grass-seeds, which, if stored
then, would be too hard to be useful to them.
These seeds are therefore left on the surface to be
softened by the autumn rains, but this year the
hungry winter birds arrived before the first
sprinkle, and the ants’ labor was lost.
* * * *
“ Thurla ” : Re mortality amongst cats in
E. Riverina (B. 7/6/’O2). Worth noting that at
the end of ’B9, just before the drought broke with
the flood of ’9O, numbers of cats in Gunnedah
(N.S.W.) district died in fits; and in the Lower
New England districts, around Bundarra, Kings-
town, and other places, not only were cats
affected, but also bears and ’possums, which were
frequently found dead or dying at the butts of
trees. Kangaroos were not affected.
* * • *
“ S.D.” : Re animals diving for weeds in
pools. Mr. G. Hood, herdsman of Narandera
(N.S.W.) common some 12 years ago, had an old
mare which used to remain in the water for hours
at a time. Down would go her head, and she
would not bring it up till she had a good mouthful
of weeds.
Dear Bul-
letin. — You
have struck a
champion in “6
x 8” (B. 7/6/’02).
(1) The Ragged
Thirteen had
nothing what-
ever to do with
the Queensland ,
shearers’ strike of ’91. They passed through
Bonoloola, a township on the M‘Arthur River
N.T., in ’86, and disbanded on arrival at Kim-
berley, W.A. (2) The Thirteen never
killed a beast before the eyes of any station
manager. (3) Ben Bridge was never one
of the Thirteen, nor did he arrive in
N.Q. till ’94 or
’95. He was ar-
rested at River-
sleigh Station
in ’95, and es-
caped when the
Burketow n
lockup (not Nor-
man ton) was
burnt down. •
* *
“Q u a d”:
For an Ancona
hen an egg
weighing 4foz.,
8|in. eircumfer- '
ence length wise ;
and 7in. girth
should be about
an Australian
record. On al-
ternate days in
one week last
month a hen of
this breed laid
eggs, two equal in
size, and one slightly lighter.. It is the property
of a poultry farmer at Arcadia, near Hornsby
(N.S.W.).
• * * *
“Xerxes”: Re “ Jaynol’s ” par. (B.,
5/10/’01). We’ve all heard of the man who cracks
snakes’ heads off stockwhip-fashion, though, un-
fortunately, none of us have ever seen him do it.
He belongs to the same crowd as the man who
“would walk straight up to the biggest blanky
kangaroo I ever saw, and catch him by the front
paws.”
“ Jack C.”: Killing snakes by “cracking”
their heads off (“Jaynol,” B., 5/10/’01) is a stale
game. Present writer’s father used to do it as far
back a,s ’59. Have seen a man catch a snake by
the tail, describe about a dozen circles in the air
with it, and then let it wind up his arm, at the
last moment catching it with the other hand just
below the head.
* • * *
“ D.S.D.” : Re “ cracking ” snakes
(“Jaynol,” B. 5/10/’01). Many years ago I saw
Capt. “Bob” Gordon (then a lad of 13) kill
several snakes in that way, one crack usually
being sufficient. _ I also know a Far Northern
young lady who is an artist at the game.
* • * •
“ Araxes ” : Looking for shed work, last
July, in the N.W., I one evening struck ashed
that was to start shearing in a few days, and
found a goodly number of men in the hut and
camped on the ground adjoining. They nearly
all looked as if they had just stepped out
of Wexford or Gipps sts., Sydney. Hard
faces,_ shaven upper lips, straw and Mount
Rennie hats, shoddy suits and bludger’s
neckerchiefs — all of the “ Push,” Pushy !
Their talk was all of the latest raid on the Chows
by the police, of the “two-up” schools, of Otto
Cribb’s sudden death, etc. I learnt they were
“contract” shearers and shed hands ; and yet a
Union is being formed of such ! Lord help the
organisation! “Scab” was written indelibly
across their countenances, and the Pastoralists’
Union could not have played better into
the hands of the A.W.U. when they started
to organise these gentry into a Union.
The drought still continues in great severity ;
and, if shearing matters are not settled by the
Arbitration Court meanwhile, shearers and shed-
hands, when shearing time arrives, will be able to
command practically their own terms. The 12
months’ growth will be due on the sheep in the
greater part of N.S.W., and squatters will not
relish losing their clip off the sheep’s back toge-
ther with the sheep— most of which, alas, will die
now, rain or no rain.
• * » *
Q. Aboriginal Protectors Roth andMeston
examined at Bar of Leg. Council gave interesting
side lights on their charges. Roth estimates
central and northern blacks at 18,000 ; considers
infanticide of half-castes very common. As the'
number of up-grown piebalds is but small the per-
centage of births is very low. The blacks are dying
out fast. It is estimated that at beginning of last
century North and Central Q. carried 200,000.
Meston agrees as to the rapid decline and considers
50 years will finish it. He has been through two
of the mystic “Bora” ceremonies (the third is only
given to full-blooded aborigines). He declined
under pressure to reveal the native freemasonry,
but admitted that it gave him carte blanohe
through his intercourse and travels. Meston con-
sidered that the aborigine would do admirably to
work in sugar cane—said he could get 800 workers
in a month. Roth thought the black’s nomadic
instincts would forbid this.
* * * •
“ Wallan” to “Prospector” (B., 5/10/'01):
Let the Monaro magpies chase the grasshopper in
peace, and go you and take old “Tweed” and
round-up 20,000 sheep, and I’ll bet you drinks for
the population of Booligal that you won’t find
any two jumbueks alike in every detail.
BUBONIC.
DICTY DICK: “ Catchin' anythin ; Blinker?”
BLINKER RILEY : “ Don’t think so; ain’t felt any
symptoms yet.”
“Bob R.” : A most interesting pet can
be made of the much-despised crow. If taken in
hand young, he soon becomes an accomplished
“talker,” and gets very fond of being noticed.
When gently stroked with the hand, he will lie
on his back and utter the most dismal croaks and
“ caws.” At a pub. near Goulburn (N.S.W )
there used to be a crow that, when a customer
entered, would lustily shout, “Bar ! bar ! ” Same
bird, the moment he heard a hen cackle, would be
off as fast as he could go to sample the egg.
* • * *
“ Crede : “Casa B.” (B. 14/6/’O2) errs
in saying that crows tear up young wheat-plants
for the sake of the milky grain at the bottom. A
growth of 1-inch utilises all the albuminous
substance in the grain, and nothing is left but the
husk. Grubs are probably the crow’s quest. In
Maoriland larks are most destructive to young
wheat for the same reason. Deep-drilling,' how-
ever, beats them.
* * * •
“ Hypo ” : Re that circumstance described
in the story “St. Kilda Hill” (B. 21/(i/’O2), the
finding by Yerrikee’s lubra of the marks made on
the tree by Yerrilcee many years before. This
seems to support my theory (advanced B. 9/11/’01)
that trees do not carry marks or burdens upwards
with their growth. What saith “Smilax” to
this?
NOTHING TO BE
THANKFUL FOR.
PARSON: “ Er—shall
I — er—say grace, Mr. Smith? ”
SMITH (of Bogan): “No, I wouldn't worry, old
man, there’s only corn-beef.”
Called at Bowen re-
cently, en route for Townsville, and was operated
on by the local barber. Asked him how he
managed to live in such a God-forgotten place,
and he told n.e he was a carpenter as well. I
might have known that !


CLEARS
the IiLOOD
through the
KLDNEYS
WOLPES
"SCHNAPPS.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
All Diamonds.
£lO 10s.
Choice
Diamonds.
£5 ss.
Exquisite White
Pearls, £5 ss.
Superb
Diamonds.
£5 6s.
Solid Heavy 18cfc.
Gold, £2 2s,
EMBLEMS
ALWAYS
Fascinate. A circle : the emblem of eternal—hence the giving of rings. We make Rings, and thus save the
makers’ profit; we mount the loose gems, and so save the mounters’ profit. WE SELL FOR CASH AT
LONDON PRICES.
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney.
FAIRFAX » ROBERTS,
23 HUNTER STREET.
“ Theta ” : A curious
natural-history fact is the
complete disappearance of
the dasyurus from Yic.
western district. Trapping
rabbits 15 years ago I used
to catch huudreds of these
“native cats,” but about
five years since the animal
suddenly disappeared from
that locality, and now there
are large areas in which it
is not to be found at all.
Tnere is still plenty of
over, and bandicoots and
’possums are still numer-
ous ; but the “cat” has
gone completely, although
it was never systematically
hunted. In fact, trappers
always hated to see a cat
caught ; so the disappear-
ance must have been due
either to.an epidemic or to
wholesale migration.
Going down to Mel-
bourne, second class, a
hush woman was valiantly
trying to start a conversa-
tion with a bushm in, who
was a stranger to her. The
man sat back in his corner
with his eyes shut, and a
small trunk beside him
labelled “Hay.” The bush-
woman glanced shyly at
the bushman and sighed
deeply. Silence. Sheturned
and read the label on the
trunk. “ It’s very ’ot in
’Ay,” she plaintively sug-
gested, after a moment’s
thought. The man looked
up. “So I b’laave.” The
eyes closed, and a long silence. “It’s very
(>t in Queensland,” again the woman ventured.
~, quivi-red, but did not lift. “So I
b la-ave. A long, long silence. “ It’s very’ot in
(,1 sperately) England!” The eyelids lay still,
tsiience tut the end of the journey. There was no
niiisn-.
* * * *
Writes “ Shaker ” from the Far North :
On his inspection tours Dr. Roth (Protector of Q.
Aborigines) labors under the disabilities of royalty,
Were it possible—it isn’t—for him to visit the Peninsula
incog he would have his eyes opened to many things.
mitmess, the nigs, are not so badly off under the Prob e-
tion Act as some people make out. Doubtless, the police
hunt them about a lot, but on the other hand indis-
criminate “ dispersions” (official and unofficial) are prac-
cally things of the past. Also, if the police do coinman-
deer all the young gins, the latter are thereby saved
Govt, ration >cantv! and "posslblfdoes not
always reach its destination; but, as a set off, there are
the diggers’ camps, which can now be looted with im-
punity. Every resident knows that the blacks, as far
north as Coen, are rotten with disease ; but that is the
result of the “advance of civilisation.” After all, if things
are just let slide, the trouble will settle itself quietly
within the next 10 or 15 years.
* * *
“A.”: Came across an ancient fly-tor-
individual a „„ „ ’ f
timed individual, the other day, grubbing stumps.
Ilian t at nrst know whether he was real or imagi-
nary. Only one boot on ; apology for a face
visible through long mane of red hair. Asked
him the time. “Twenty-three minutes to 10.”
Then he looked at the sun. “No ; it must be 25
now.” Further interrogated him. Had been a
MR. LOUIS GRIST, A SYDNEY MUSICAL COMPOSER.
Photo by Brand, Sydney.
lieutenant in the navy. Was getting 3s, per
stump, and find himself. Had already been 10
days at that stump. “ His oath ! a fair terror.”
THE IGNORANT SAVAGE.
HE: “Now, Clara, d,ar, here's a c'ance for me to air my Maori.”
(To Maoris): “ Tena Koe. Kia ora"
DUSKY MAID: “Do you know me, sir?” HE: “ N-n-no!”
DUSKY M AID: “ You should never address anyone you don't know.”
“ Salgy ” : Re catching crows (B. 28/6/’O2).
I have found the following method very successful
both N.S.W. and Queensland. Wing a crow
with a gun, and peg the bird, back downwards,
by its wings to the ground. The captive’s out-
cries will soon bring more crows along, and pre-
sently one of these is sure to jump upon the con-
finee, only to be gripped by the latter’s claws and
held as in a vyce, making capture quite easy. The
second prisoner can then in turn be used as a
decoy.
• -
“Mid”: Re obtaining VOUnv crows,
, . c -i- t-n xi 5- J .
A P ar * fro ™ waiting till the nestlings are feathered
an( * then idling the tree, 1 have taken numbers
thus: I have watched _ the nest until the young
birds appeared on the side, and have then watched
for and shot the parent birds. Then, within a
C ° ll ß le °/ d , a y S f ’ y° hirds have P fou P d
f* the foot of the re< , ! ’ been drlven h Y
hunger to attempt flight when they could only
just do enough in that way to break their fall,
* * * *
C!nQqpir« “ Historv of Fno-lund ” mrl
. Uabsel J 1 b ot England, part b(,
18 up-to-date enough to deal with Australian
Federation, and well-informed enough to say this:
One important factor was overlooked : The Australian
natives, of whom there are some 20,000 in Victoria-alone,
and th ’ ey were solid for Federation. It was a curious
democratic illustration—an effete, aboriginal community
making its almost foreign voice heard in the babel of the
newer speech that dominated the country,
The A.N.A. “an effete, aboriginal community”
with “its almost foreign voice” !
In a south-western electo-
rate an M.L.A., visiting his con-
stituents, struck a bush-pub., and
what sort of a night was it !
The paddock was strewn with
dead-to-the-world men and empty
bottles. At break of day sick
and sorry creatures were seen
moving from every direction to
the bar for a “corpse-reviver”—
and there wasn’t a drop! The
“missus” stood behind the bar
expostulating with the thirsty
crew. “Gintlemin,” she said,
“it’s no use. There isn’t a taste
ov any think in th’ house. Ye
drank it all lasht noight, and
Pat had to go to attind on th’
jury at before dayloiglit,
and hadn’t toime to make a drap
of annythink for yez. ”
* • *
An employee at one of the
Goulburn Valley (Yic.) vineyards,
an exile of Erin, fell into the
cellar, a distance of 19ft., striking
a crab winch in his fall. When
the other employees ran to gather
up the remains they found the
O’Brien feeling himself tenderly,
and wearing a surprised expres-
sion. He had broken the iron
handle from the crab-winch, but
wasn’t a bit broken himself.
However, he thought he ought
to git a day off “ for the surprise
to the system.”
* » *
Some years ago, at Windsor
(N.S.W.), a rifleman missed the
target and the bullet went right
through the billycan of a traveller
camped some distance off. The
holes in the billy got the swaggie
many a feed and drink as the
basis for a bush ranging perjury.
It was finally sold to a wayback publican, and
is now doing duty to show what didn’t happen to
a man in S’Africa.
“ Ben Sun ” : Re fire-fighting (“ Bob R.”
B. 21/6/02): —
The watereart would be useless in rough, broken
country ; and, against a bush as distinguished from a
grass-fire, would be utterly ineffective. Further, bags,
bushes, or greenhide beaters are usually available, while
water is seldom so in the bushfire season. Also, if fire-
fighting is “reduced to a science” in Riverina, it isn’t
elsewhere. Have never seen a fire fought scientifically,
or even intelligently. Mostly men belt around anyhow,
get “ winded” and half roasted, and only drive the fire
faster. Moreover, when a fire is driven by a strong wind
through heavy grass, leaves and other rubbish, little can
be done, and the only check possible is to burn back from
some existing break. But, given a crowd under control,
an advancing grass-fire can be beaten quickly if the
fighters divide into small gangs, and every two of these
start to burn back at opposing angles towards the coming
fire. If the intervals between the starting points are well
estimated, each gang meets another in time ; the force of
the wind isn’t fully felt; every man is working effectively,
and the checking fire on the forward side can be beaten
out close to the point of ignition all along.. But if a
checking fire is carried across the wind it’s pretty sure to
get away. Finally, clubs should be formed and men
taught how to deal with bush-fires, without wasting
energy and endangering life.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications Insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted,, whether sent by post or
handed in; and in no case will MS. be returned un
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
C.R.T.: After all, we won’t print “The Border
L.” It is well told, but we sacrifice it as a protest on the
altar of anti-morbidity. Wouldn’t mind publishing it, so
far as that one story is concerned, but it would grow and
reap for us a crop of things in similar vein and we really
don’t want them Cono : Thanks ; but no need for a
long letter saying that you are sending things. Send
them, after writing your name and address plainly
upon them, and let them talk for themselves....
A. Macio : Apparently under the newN.S.W. method, a
J.P. cannot be appointed unless he gets a clean bill from
the local policeman Oommo : He wasn’t a self-adver-
tiser, anyhow : “ The laurels that cumbered his careless
tread were the only ones he choose to pu11.”... .C.O.L. :
Much, no doubt, depends on how much alcohol you
drink, but still more on how much fresh air you drink ...
Charlotte B. : Many thaks Black Swan : The only
hopeful method of cure is to put the person where she
can’t get liquor for a couple of years. All drugs are sim-
ply quackery N’ Importe : Letter giving 29 extracts
from the Bible to allege that the Almighty favors deceit
firmly refused ; we leave those points for the religious
papers to argue Amla :He made love to every woman
he met. It takes a good man to do it, hut the one who
recognises his duty in that direction will always have
some pretty little garlands on his grave Seston : How
can you hold Tub B. responsible for the opinions of
signed verses in its columns ? The merits of the verse
are what we look at. You send “ something religious ”
coming within and stance of “Lead, Kindly'Light,” or
“ Gerontius,” and see how it is welcomed Talune :
But Tub B. has never itself done anything of that sorb.
In the pursuit of sixpences it draws the line at publish-.
ing things which would make it view the morning chop
with loathing T.J.A.F. : Privately, emphatically n 0...
C.L. : Tell us—why do women-writers so often want to
enlarge (in print) on the supper? We hate a woman
with an appetite S.M. :No ; John Haynes wouldn’t he
tempted from politics except by the offer of a bishopric..
M.M. : Tennyson’s claim on the Governor-General’s salary
and on his State salary at the same time can be defended,
if it be regularly set up, on much the same grounds as
Federal Ministers’ claim on the salaries of Ministers and
of private members at the same time J.O’B. : Cobb and
Cos. was started by Kei.drick Cobb, a Yankee express
driver, who arrived in Melbourne in 1852, and ran
a coach between there and Bendigo in 1853
E.J.B. : (1) Hamburg American Cos. (German) stands
first; then Norddeutscher - Lloyd (German). (2)
Not certain Phalanx: Yes," all of them
Milky White: Received Cat’s Eye: “The haughty
curl of his lip” settled it Ben S. : “Pig-killing” and
“Tambo” not up... Nix: “ Nothing”—exactly so
E.M. : Far below standard Jumbo : Appropriately
ponderous.... Marian B. : Prosy and conventional; and
much too long for “ B.” in any case Sandy J. : You
get bushed and travel round and round upon your tracks
W.H. : Not ill-written, but too like too many other
“infidelity” yarns Ajax: Strained style and shaky
syntax Kodak: To hand H.M. : Hardly good
enough J.W.F. : Rhymes wretched and metre madden-
ing Bullaman : Returned accordingly. Verse too
w0bb1y....A.J.5.: Some characterisation skill, but not
story Madder B. : Not crisply enough put together
Lilli-Pilli: Doesn’t quite hit us yet J.W.G.H. : Utterly
devoid of merit The Trier: Well you’re not a Suc-
ceeder. So far verses pretty, but conventional in
both subject and treatment Ajax: That story is in
Marryat, not in Lever ; and anyhow it is foolish to
argue that skill, because it cannot do -everything,
is worse than no skill. None of your items were up
to the par mark of pith and crispness....S.W. : Not up
H.T. : The quotation from Cricket re Darling’s wide-
awake management of his team in the field has been
published in the dailies. And everybody knows that the
sprightly Australian play is an object-lesson to English
county elevens. County cricket is drowsy, as a rule—
beerfully drowsy... .Macao : You should'always make
the names of persons and places as plain as print.
“There is no context to a name.” J.M.: As he
has a son living, better let the matter drop Kea :
Shocking poem about Seddon duly received G.E.G. :
Thanks for cutting John Brown : Painfully indefinite.
H. Laen : Have met with brighter descriptions of the
back blocks town A Subscriber (Dunedin) : After
looking at the criminal records of Maoriland we don’t
care to take up the case Cuss: Glad to hear from
you Nymsie : Strained humor, and shaky on its
metrical pins The Tramp : “ Wrote for the bulleten,”
was it? Declined with sorrow! Gerald B. : Verse
rather graceful, but too conventionally sentimental.
Prose sketches valueless Hamer : A strong situation,
demanding a dramatic skill you do not possess
W.J.E. : Verse hopelessly feeble and clumsy. Prose
sketch better, but very unskilful C.D.J. : Amended
version received Barbaras. : Very true; but it’s all
been said before, ad nauseam,. Most people seem to be
built that way Exile: You should have got it into
quarter the space J.S.G: The Bulletin isn’t so blindly
injudicious as all that Arthur E. : Excellent senti-
ment dully versed Riverina ; Your smooth verses are
wasted on the hackneyed ideas which you treat. That
doctor yarn is old as Kosciusko Vag. : Ideas footsore
from trampingaround.. R. M. H.: Verse wobbles too much..
Kodak, 0.H.0.W., Austin W.,A.5.,8., A.RB.: Unsuitable
. ..F.M.N. (M.L.) : “ Burial of Mrs. M.” for print W.N. :
Thanks, but your explanation, which touches the spot
exactly, has been anticipated R.L. : Hell-sample yarn
old American ; originally told re Tabasco sauce
Mousquetaire : B.S.P. for print Alone: Boiling-billy-
on-hand subject done with. As you say, the secret lies
in the non-conductivity of the soot on the bottom of the
vessel Zebo : Not quite up to mark E.F.L. : Great
promise, but thought not clearly expressed Ime B. :
ltythm too faulty Artemis: In short, they lit up
the Coronation bonfire too soon 1 And we don’t take
any interest even in the bonfire which blazes at just the
proper time.. ..M.H.: “Peggy” some merit, but not
enough.,.. Mitty : Too crude Ben Sun : Rather slow.
.. ..A.E.R. : Those “Flannelette” verses, read in the
Senate, were written by H. Cripps Clark, and originally
appeared in The Bulletin.... Hochkirch : Too stale a
subject now Ang G. : But you can’t put a series like
that in one sketch. You might as well try to draw a
picture of a man being in gaol for 25 years... .F. Cole-
brook (Bond.) : Bulletin never prints serials... .O.M.A. :
As there were in one page five names so badly written
that we could not be sure of them, we had to throw the
whole thing away... .Admirer : If your property is in
simple form (i.e., cash in bank, land or scrip, without
encumbrances, or a life-policy), and you want to leave it
simply (say to one person, or to several persons, for
division), with reasonable intelligence you can make your
own will. “ Forms,” as a rule, are pitfalls. Just say in
simple words what you intend, and see that it is wit-
nessed by two persons who do not benefit by it. If you
want to go into complications of life interests, dependent
heritages, and so on, better hire a lawyer;
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
S. : State Cart idea has this drawback, that it isn’t the
Upper House which has blocked local government and
water conservation B. : Not one of them bears impress
of originality and some are undoubtedly old. Try some-
thing obviously Australian.. ..P.H. : Maori drawing
realty a smart little thing. Who are you and why don’t
you write your name on back ?.... Kang: Abdominal
item won’t do, but the two others will.. .H.M.R. : Doesn’t
look original—has an English smack about it Wilk :
Subject anticipated by Mr. Vincent... .Zif : You almost
get there but not quite....M. Stone, Albion, Crag, San
Remo, Filter, R.D. (Bris.), M.B.W.B., A. J.H., M.P. : Un-
available.
The sun-picture on this page is of Mr. Louis
Grist, an athletic young Sydney music-com-
poser and voice-trainer. His music has a
cathedral echo in it, and there are vague threats
that he will do something “ pretty good ” in the
near future.
“ Blackbirding ” in the New Hebrides for
Q. sugar plantations is becoming every week more
difficult. The recruiter Roderic Dhu has only
been able to obtain five men in two-months-and-a-
half at Aoba, and then the ship was fired upon by
Kanakas. _ Last trip of the Roderic Dhu was
fraught with bloodshed, but the facts were care-
fully suppressed by most of the papers.
Douglas Rannie, Assistant-Inspector of
Polynesians at Bundaberg and Mackay, has been
writing pathetically to the Q. press on the woes
of returned kanakas:
Then what of the children, born in the State, educated
in the State schools, brought up in Sunday schools ;
must these children be banished into the blackness and
darkness and corruption of heathenism? .... I view
with horror, contempt, and disgust those who clamor to
drive these young Christians down to barbarism, &c.
Unfortunately for Mr. Rannie’s pathos, kanaka
children born in the State of Queensland are
British subjects and cannot be forcibly returned
to the Islands But if the heathenism and cor-
ruption of the Islands is worse than the heathenism
and corruption of the Chow dens and brothels
where Tommy Tanna picks up the rudiments of
civilisation, then things in Polynesia are very,
very rotten indeed.
CAPTAIN DUMARESQ, of Lone,ford (Tas.),
who reached his 100th birthday on 10th
June, 1902.
Captain Dumaresq, whose portrait is pub-
lished in this issue, is perhaps the only absolutely
authentic centenarian in the Commonwealth. He
was 100 on June 10, has a son aged 63 in the Tas-
manian Parliament, and a brother (now dead) was
made a colonel by Wellington on (he field of
Waterloo.
Possibly it is only that unconscious
humorist, the cable-man, who is responsible for
this:
The Kaiser has issued orders regulating the marriages
of army officers. The officers, it is decreed, must have a
private income of at least £l5O per annum. They must
give a full description of their intended wives.
The German officer, according to this, must give a
f ull description of the lady before marriage. It
seems a very large order, and it doesn’t seem quite
respectable.
The popular definition of a “ lady ”
becomes very hard to arrive at. The other day a
tall, handsome girl of 18 indignantly repudiated
the charge of vagrancy thrown at her in a Mel-
bourne police court on the ground that “she was
a lady and was being kept by a Chinaman.”
Governor Tennyson perpetrated a fresh
stanza for “ Gor Save ” m Adelaide the other
day
Lord God show forth Thy power,
And guard his every hour,
God save the King.
Olothe him with righteousness,
Crown him with happiness,
God, with thy blessings bless and save the King.


The existence of an epidemic of matri-
monial fever among -tile nurses at tlie
Ho»nn-.opaline Hospital was reported by Mr.
J. \V. Hunt at a meeting of the Ladies’ - Aid
Society* which was held at the Melbourne
Hall yesterday. The outbreak, Mr.
Hnnt stated, made its first appearance in
the wards last year, “and.” he proceeded,
‘‘since it was brought under my notice I
have seldom put my foot inside the hos-
pital doors without being informed that ‘ai*-j
other purse is going to be marrie’d’ £
14 W°s e %■
7 ur 3 e S rr J i^e
ioo
Try Sonjelfasr
jo*- J
or 5 0. {g
It was decided bv the Marine Board yes-
terday that pilots on attaining the age of
tw years shall ( be subjected to medical ex-
amination as to their fitness to continue
'duty, and that afterwards they shall tender-
go 'similaf examinations annually pS long
as they continue'in the service up to the
age of 65, wbqh.'fchqjf must retire absolutely.
The cost of the examinations to.be borjne,
by thtf pilots.
df
A
•_ jjltle
|<ls Co«?e ov*' n « now i
k \fjen — vf*J s*l $°W-I
ones over your
wljen you
donT P „
Medici (fprlingW
: 0,1 dowf iis
quile So b*d U)*f-
ifs only Bvlon or
of f
Sort ' y
r\” ssjtoA
; e rs '® ;„r^ ft ’ "Do* \ -jje* e , tW e \
V<V e^V<e** 9 - IM , fV 4 * 3 '
f ’£Ns>«& r^A";* *•
. t.>i'»s2J° 4^?|
r « tcs^ 1 &^ e •' /// v ky)
\ >rf>' (tA 4/
a, Sbetiivl rjeW i
-fc? '/ ou, £> e ■ SlT ' • cTS Ifj
dL€f j y
\ 6eer! 6€€ f 6
l'( £
\ /
a V
vox' 3- . oO^ v andT o-0
A' s y' V ® TV vn!' e , 3
. e s'- cd „ v po<W
\ A/ \
% V>.
wtjik v/o^
\ (T)lAY<lerj
CHINESE PAUPERS.
A GROWING BURDEN.
CAST LEM AIXE, Thursday.
For some time past the committees of the
Jocal charitable institutions have been con-
fronted by a serious problem, in the shape
of a heavy demand on .their financial re-’
sources fay the destitute 2 Chinese,!
How wljo
Could Ijao&
dold \]lnj
fat?"
c^ o h7e 'w
\ fv^l
/ oj' Course
s. tI 7 OK< 2 Cori n dtjp
fa fa y
\
/ railway medical tests.
7 THE EYESIGHT QUESTION
v The railway authorities, having dispensed
with the services of Dr Barrett and Dr.
\ Murray, specialists in eyesight, hearing and
k color sense, intend presumably to rely to
Can even greater degree than formerly on the
Xentirelyinadequate “practical” tests.
r SIR RDM L SI) BARTON JN LONDON.
SIR Edmund keena in touch with'
Us toiJotgijan by the exujiangp of cable mop-.
, sages almost daily. Although these are'
transmitted in eode, the cpst must be ap-
proaohing very respectable proportions.
Yesterday the Prime Minister asked to be
supplied with some Australian trade statis-
/tios. The request may possibly have some-
thing to do with the question of Imperial
, tra«ae reciprocity, wH|b is to he discussed
,at the colonial conferences. Another in-
quiry, which baffles explanation, relates to
/ |the climatic conditions of New South
/ Wales. He wishes to know what the rain-:
fall has been, in that state recently.
Theirs is not
to reason why, ,but to answer the queries
addressed to uiem by cable.
Bill -fHjesWr) I "fold yer it*
ried li^f!!
*
} "folio! WoVfey
> twe WJ 'be J
_ iw)J>orw»T css**
MOSTLY MELBOURNIAN.


And is deriving immense
benefit from a system of “ San-
dowing ” that h© has of late
been indulging in.
Mr. G. H. Reid, leader of the Opposition
in the Federal Parliament, speaking to a
Daily Telegraph .representative yester-
day, said that he had never enjoyed such
robust health. He has decreased in weight.
At one period in his history Mr.. Reid tried eyeing as a form
pf exercise, but soon arrived at the conclusion that for one of
hi# ample proportions that form of outdoor recreation was a
trifle precarious.
NO TIC E. 1
THF EON ATI ON SHOin
will opfn Some time im
AT LAST!
O’Sullivan : “ Haven’t I promised you
repeatedly that you should have the
North Shore bridge?”—(Cries of
“You have,” and “Three
cheers for O’Sullivan ! ”) /
“ Well I now promise it /,
to you again \ J> /J
, He ,”?7 finds * he Strong-Man method
of solidifying. and hardening the frame
much more suited to hiiy.
BARTON WILL WAIT FOR THE CORONATION.
Barton (on the door-mat) : “ Well, I don’t think my friends can call me
an unpunctual man after this ! ”
Can it be that Reid is in training for one more mighty effort of this sort 1
THE HOLIDAY EPIDEMIC.
Ist Civil Servant : “I see that the King
is all right. ’
2nd do. : “ Yes , I wonder what t«nft
we’ll close 1 ”
HOMEWARD BOUND.
Lord Hopbtoun : “ Land where I have
suffered so much privation and poverty
—Farewell! ”
CARTOONLETS.


A. SAUNDERS.
Unrivalled non-magnet LEVER.
Pei fed Timekeeper, Screw Cases,
dust and watertight, 20s.
S Ivor, 85s. Hunters, £2.
A written Guarantee given with
each Watch.
Key,
£3los.
i
mm
ism
Keyless,
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS.
ROTHERHAM SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH
LEVERS, Full Cap, Hand Finished, Extra
J ewelled W orks, Perfect Timekeeper, with Pure
Silver Cases, Dust and Water Tight. £3 10s.
Extra duality, with Chronometer Balance,
£4 10s, £5, £5 10s, £6, £7, £8 ;
Solid Gold, £lO, £l5. £2O.
A written certificate for 3,4, '5, and 6 years.
Try one ; you will not regret it.
Fine
Dial,
255.
A. SAUNDERS.
NEW MODEL LONDON LEVER,
|-Plate, Full Ruby Jewelled,
Chron. Balance, Jewelled Lever, Double Roller,
Jewelled, Brynet Patent Time Spring.
255, 30s. Silver Hunter, £2 10s, £3.
Will last 25 years.
Kept in repair for two years
free of charge.
Railway
Dial,
30s.
Solid
Silver,
£2 103.
MEWC
........
WALTHAM LEVERS.
We are Direct Buyers.
Pure Solid Silver Hunting Cases, Extra
Quality Movements,
£2 10s, £3, £3los, £4, and £5 ;
Cold Patent Cases, Walthams, £4 4s, £5 5s ;
Solid Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O, and £25.
3,4, 5, and 6 Years’ Guarantee.
Gold
Cassd,
£4 4s.
Double
Case,
MI
/ /V
£:-N=3 A.6AUNOIRB CEORCE 35
S*. SYDNCIr\.
■"•‘fii!
“FLY-BACK CHRONOMETERS.”
These we have at Every Price aad Style. In Solid
Nickel or Black, 30s ; Extra duality, £2, £2 10s;
Split Seconds, £3 LOs. Pure Solid Silver, as above,
£5, £6, £7, £B, and £10; Solid Gold, £l5, £2O,
£25, and £3O.
A written certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and 6 years.
TRY ONE.
Solid
Silver,
<£s.
18ct.
Solid
Goxd, £lO
A. SAUNDERS.
'Bct. Solid Gold Keyless WALTHAM
LEVER. Eull Jewelled Works, Patent
Action, New Model £lO, £l2 10s.
You Can’t get a Better Watch.
14ct. Solid Gold, £8 10s.
Extra
Strong,
£l2los
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold LOCKETS
7s 6d, 10s, 15s,
17s 6d, 20s,
255, 30s.
Post Card Gold
CHARM, 10s.
Any Name Free.
Silver, gilt, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCH,
Full Jewelled, 255, 30s, £2,
£2 10s.
Price to quality of works.
Guaranteed 2,3, 4 years.
15ct. Gold
Turquoise
I’orget-
me-Kot
and
Pearl
Scroll,
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
"Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 2,‘s, 30s, £2,
£2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5 ;
Superior duality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
ALL GUARANTEED.
Floral
PIN,
Pearl and
Tur-
quoise,
ss.
15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Keyless WATCH,
Good Timekeeper, 15s;
Extra Quality, 20s.
GUARANTEED.
20s*
A. SAUNDERS.
Secret
Gold LOCKET,
20s.
Gold Boot
CHARM, 5s Gd.
Latest Style.
Solid
Gold,
£6 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ WALTHAM SOLID
GOLD KEYLESS,
f-movement, Chronometer Balance,
Jewelled, Perfect Timekeeper,
Extra Strong Cases.
Full Size, £6 10s ; Small Size, £5 10s
Pure Solid Silver, same works, £2 10s
Silver,
£2 10s.
olid Gold CHAIN (Single or Double), £3, £3 10s, £4
£4 10s, £5. loot. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £(j, £0 lbs, £7, £B,
£lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. Send for Price
Illustrated Book. Guaranteed Engl sk Hall-marked.
G Id BItOOCH. 2 Bar 1) amond, with 4 Bed or
Blue Stones, 20s.
0
A SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold. Diamonds and Rubies,
with Ivy Leaves, 255.
Very Cheap.
A. SAUNDERS.
15et. Gold Pure Double-cut 5-Diamond
BROOCH, £4 4s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Solid Gold Name BROOCH, 7s 6d ;
with Raised Flowers each side (Any Name),
15ct. Gold, 15s. Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ivy and Pearl Gold BROOCH, 25s ;
9ct. Gold, smaller, 12s 6d.
XT A. SAUNDERS.
Motto Registered Gold “ Dinna Forget ’
BROOCH and Amethyst.®, 9ct. Gold, 17s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, 30s ; 18ct. Gold, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Style 2-Bar Gold BROOCH,
Diamond and two Red Stones, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Gold Forget-Me-Not BROOCH,
English Hall-marked, 10s.
No. 1.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Long MUFF CHAINS,
Hand Made, Extra. Strong, £3, £3los, £4 ;
15ct. Gold. £4 10s, £5, £6, £7 10s.
Price According to Strength.
gd
Ladies' Curb Gold
Chan, Snap Padlock,
255, 30s, 355, £2 ss,
£3; 15ct„ £2 10s, £3,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6,
£( 10s, £B, £9, £lO.
10s extra for Key-
Padlock.
All with Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
Diamond BRACELET, 15ct. Gold, three Pure Double Cut Diamonds,
with Safety Chain, £5.
Pure Pearl NECKLETS, Solid Gold, Very Latest Style,
£'3 5s ; 15ct. Extra Quality, £5.
No. 2.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Long MUFF CHAINS,
Hand Made, Extra Strong, £3, £3 10s, £4
15ct. Gold £4 10s. £5, £6, £7 10s.
Price According to Strength.
15cfc. Gold 2-Heart with 2
Opal Hearfe, Ivy Leaf,
Knot, and Diamond
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Jsct. Gold Pearl and
Turquoise Eloral and
Ribbon BROOCH, £2 10s.
London’s Newest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Raised Flowers, 5s 6d.
Larger, 6s 6d and 7 s 6d.
VSXSSSBBBBBi^^
No. 3.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Long MTJFF CHAINS,
Hand Made, Extra Strong, £3, £3 10s, £4;
15ct. Gold, £4 10s, £5, £6, £7 10s.
Price According to Strength.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Style, Gold BROOCH, Hall-marked,
Diamond and 2 Red Stones, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Style, 15ot. Gold BROOCH, Pearl Set,
32s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold, Hall-marked, Eorget-me-Not
BROOCH, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. 2-Bax Pure Diamond, Double Cut, £2
A. SAUNDERS.
Extra Strong 15ct. Gold, Diamonds, Rubies,
and Pearls, £S 5s :
5 Diamonds, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
(Registered).
Gold LINKS, 20s
15ct. Gold, 32s 6d;
Silver and Gold, 10s;
all Silver, ss.
INN
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Dinna Forget,
los 6d.
Our own Registered
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Solid Gold LINKS.
Main, 17s 6d, 20s, 25s ;
15ct. Gold, £2, £2 ss, £2 10s.
Monogram 2s 6d extra.
Silver Initial HAT PINS,
Parisian Diamonds, 4s 6d ;
Turquoise, Ss Gd.
Solid Silver, Is Gd.
A. SAUNDERS.
Beautifully Chased, 9ct. Gold,
large size LINKS, 22s 6d.
Plain, 21s, or with Initials,
nicely Chased, 22s 6d.
15ct. Gold, £2 ; Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl and Turquoise
Heart BROOCH, £2 2s.
The Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lucky Heather,
1c Oc «o •
Gold, Vs 6d, 10s.
Call and See our
Jewellery
.Exhibition,
A Splendid Display.
Or Send for our
1902 Complete
Illustrated Book,
Post Free Anywhere.
A. SAUNDERS.
Opal Band RINGS,
9ct. Solid Gold, 17s 6d;
15et. Gold, 30s;
18ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Buttercup Single
Stone Diamond
RING,
£3, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, 5 Opals,
J-Hoop, £2, £2 10s,
GENT.'S BING.
Solid Gold, Amethyst, 25s
15ct. Gold, £2;
18ct., £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold, 5 pure
Diamonds, £1210s;
Smaller, £5, £6, £7,
£7 10s, to £BO.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold,
3 Pure Diamonds,
2 Opal Hearts, £4 10s.
Datest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Solid Gold Buckle,
17s 6d; 15ct. Gold, 80s ;
18ct. Gold, £2.
18ct. Solid Gold,
Pure Diamond and
2 Rubies or
Sapphires, £2, £2 10s,
£8; 8 Diamonds,
£2 10s, £3, £4, £5.
Signet Plain RING,
9ct. Gold, 20s, 255;
15ct. Gold, 80s, 85s;
18ct., £2, £2 10s.
With Name, Band RINGS,
9ct. Solid Gold, 12s 6d, 16s;
15ot. Gold, 20s, 26s ;
18ot. Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
18ct. Solid Gold,
5 Pure Diamonds, £5.
Diamond and Sapphire
or Ruby, £3 10s ;
larger, £i 10s, £a.
18ct. Solid Gold Diamond
Band, £2, £2 10s. £3;
15tt. Gold, 30s.
A. SACJNt) its.
18ct. Gold,
3 Sapphires, Rabies,
or Opals, 4 Diamonds,
£3, £3 10 . -:4,
fg
dr
A. SAUNDEBS.
Hand-made Wedding RINGS and KEEPERS.
9ct. Solid Gold, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s each ; 15ct. Gold, 15s
extra heavy, 25s ; 18ct. Gold, 20s ;
extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for Card.
A. SAUNDERS,
gd
JEWELLER AND SILVERSMITH
rg
815 AND 817 GEORGE-ST.,
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY


df
RAMEY’S MEOsCAYOR'
For the Treatment of Catarrh Hay Fever,
Bronchitis, Influenza, Catarrhal
Deafness, etc.
Medlcator, with complete treat-
ment, only 101-, post free.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY
223,231 COLLINS ST„ MELBOURNE. .
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
33 of this issue *
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N. S. Wales: Sayers,
Allport and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulplioline Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulplioline developes a lovely-skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
The Bulletin Story Book (price ss.
post-free from The Bulletin office) has been
everywhere hailed as by far the best book of
Australian stories and sketches yet published.
All the best-known Australian writers, for the
last ten years, are represented; and, both for
interest and literary value, the selection is un-
surpassed in this country.*
There has not been a more interesting
Australian book published for a long time than
“Bushman and Buccaneer” —giving the life and
writings of Harry Morant (“The Breaker”).
Every bushman will want to buy a copy for the
sake of the complete collection of “The Breaker’s”
verses which it contains. The book gives a photo-
graphic reproduction of the “ copy ” of Morant’s
last verses, written in gaol, and many illustrations,
from authentic photographs, of the Bushveldt
Carbineers’ operations. Price one shilling.
Wholesale from Edwards Dunlop and C >., Syd-
ney. —Advt.
V
ms
a I do not ask you to spend
money to te3t whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epi:eps7/, St. Yitus’
Dance, e tc. All I ask of you
is to SEHD for a FREE
Pottle and to try it I abide
by t \q result. A safe remedy—
approved by the Medical
Profession.
H. G. ROOT, 28,Endsleigh
Gardens, London. N.W.
If
1
*
you
0 «3
N^°
0/
Allan's
Australian music Books
s c c
0 0
Sold by all Music Sellers in Australasia.
Allan a Co. ptv.1td..278-27b collins st.. Melbourne
BUSHMAN WATCH
g
OUR FAITHFUL
yC\ /.TIMEKEEPER
L U/ CunMetal-Casc
Hzeq
4
B
dfg
Cheapest House in Australia for EDISON
Phonographs Records
“BIJOU,” witli 6 Records .. .. .. .. £1 10 0
EDISON “STANDARD,” with 12 Records .. 610 0
EDISON “HOME,” with 24 Records .. .. 810 0
COMBINATION A 1 “GRAND,” taking both
Large and Small Records, with 12 Records, 6
Concert (Gin.) Records and Large Horn .. 10 10 0
EDISON RECORDS, English and American,
per dozen .... .100
CONCERT (sin.) RECORDS,'per dozen!! 30 0
Send for Splendid New
Illustrated Catalogue
containing 5000 Selec-
tions to choose from.
Electric Fans, with Bat-
tery, £5 ; Electric Bike
Lamps, 21s ; Flash
Lights, Scarf Pin Lights,
10s 6d; Vapour Bath
Cabinets, 20s; &c., Free.
Records can be posted
to any address.
Machines carefully
packed and forwarded
to any part of Austra-
lasia.
PS
REEVES & CO.,
KING WILLIAM ST., ADELAIDE.
Publications.
TO HORSE-MASTERS.
NOW READY.
The Highly Instructive Book,
“AUSTRALIAN HORSES FROM
PADDOCK TO PARK ”
By D. McGILLIVRAY
(The Celebrated Australian Horse Taming, Riding,
and Driving Expert).
A TREATISE on the Scientific Handling, Breaking,
Educating, and the General Management of Hor es,
teaching the Author’s wonderful methods of completely
subduing the most savage animals living: in a few
minutes, with upwards of 105 splendid illustrations
obtained by instantaneous photography whilst he was
at work upon the wild and raw material.
Obtainable from the following Agents :
Sydney—Messrs. Wm. Brooks & Co. Ltd., 17
Castlereagh-street.
Brisbane—Messrs. Wm. Brooks & Co. Ltd.
Grunnedali, N.S.W.— Messrs. Bacon & Co.
Price, 11s.—post free.
20% discount allowed on large orders.
NOW READY.
“BUSHMAN
BUCCANEER”
Illustrated
HARRY MORANT:
HIS ’VENTURES
ANP VERSES
(OF THE
Busiiveldt
Carbineers)
By FRANK RBNAR.
The History, Ve ses and Correspondence of
“The Breaker.’’
PRICE ONITsHILLING
POSTAGE ONE PENNY. All Booksellers.
Wholesale: Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney.
Retail: “ Bulletin ” Newspaper Co. Ltd., Sydney.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. Li-t with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet Size photos.
ss. P.O.C. or stamps.
s. RcOKNASEL NACH?, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Germany.
As It your music-seller for
FREDERIC H. COWEN’S
Beautiful Song,
The Mission of a Rose
Sung with the greatest success by
Miss AMY CASTLES.
The Illustrated London News says : “ It is a gem.”
df
Ta*®
m.
%
**
0
raw
•>JS Cowpf 1 *
m e
,r
gd
Chemists
Colonies
Hihum Catharncum Pius (Wi/ttywtu
“ st COACULINE •
■Tf'A'WARtH; for all Broken Articles
EVERT MAN
SUFFERING from DEBILITY and WEAKNESS should
send for a valuable Pamphlet explaining how all
Nervous and Organic Derangements may be success-
fully treated without stomach medication. The me thod
is easy and pleasant, and will effect a perfect and per-
manent cure. Sent in a plain sealed envelope free of
charo-e. E. NORTON, 59 &60 Chancery Lane, London,
jm ” Eng. Over 30 years’ continuous success. jg
The Lifting of Myall King.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.
His brand’s a brand of Cooper’s Creek, his breed s
a breed of fame,
And far as falling whipthongs speak the bushmen
know his name;
At musters on the Red Barcoo, where all the best
are known,
He threads the rounded cattle through to single
out his own,
And where our lazy fats are spread, or lean, wild
scrubbers ring,
There’s not a Queensland stockman bred but s
heard of Myall King 1
We’ve raced him with the colors up at bush-hotel
and town,
And none could take the Gumleaf Cup against the
grass-fed brown !
And fairer still the fame he bought, if need of
further sign,
The night that Death and Donald fought beside
the Border line,
When, with the wind of dawn that stirred the
sleepy leaves a-swing,
At Bourke, upon the bridge, men heard the hoofs
of Myall King!
One morning on the blue-grass plain and down the
lignum side
The blackboy cracked his whip in vain to start
the station’s pride;
The mob swept down across the road, light-heeled
and breathing hard —
For once no streak-faced camp-horse showed the
short way to the yard ;
We heard the racing hoofs go by, we heard the
stockwhip ring,
And watched them pass, and wondered why he
brought no Myall King !
We rode the paddock east and west and searched
from fence to fence
The wilgas where the horses rest, the buddahs
brandling dense,
We searched by waterhole and creek, we rode
the six-wire round —
We might have ridden week to week and searched
and never found !
We knew the brown horse had not strayed ; we
swore the man should swing
That broke our bound’ries, unafraid, and lifted
Myall King!
He might have stolen eight or nine longtails from
our long list,
And still have reached the railway-line before the
colts were missed;
He might have sneaked a mare and foal that ran
in Number Two,
And reached Rockhampton as a goal before we
found a clue,
But though he took a d—d good horse, he did a
risky thing
The night he dropped the sandhill rails and lifted
Myall King !
That night, before the sun went down, we found
the mark of hoof
Close hid among the grasses brown, but proof—
and bitter proof ;
Shod tracks and bare, that told us true, beyond
the reach of doubt,
How one shod horse was ridden through, and one,
bare-hoofed, led out.
We looked, one hasty, careless look—it was a
simple thing
To read, as in an open book, the tracks of Myall
King!
And side by side the hoof-tracks showed on flats
made bare by Drought,
Until they joined the river-road —the wide road
to the South,
And here the keenest sight was vain, the soundest
art at fault,
And night came down across the plain, and so we
calle I a halt,
And slowly to the homestead turned, the evil
news to bring,
And in our hearts the vengeance burned for love
of Myall King !
For there was not a Tringa man from boss to
blackboy down,
But loved, as only horsemen can, a good horse
like the brown ;
Yet, though we loved him, worst and best, and
worshipped him, ’tis true
grief more deep than all the rest Jack Fitch,
who rode him, knew !
For five years back, without a break, at racecourse
camp and wing
To guard the station pride at stake Jack Fitch
rode Myall King !
That night, when stars were bright o’er head,
Jack had a tale to tell,
“I’m going southward, boss,” he said, “I’m sick
and want a spell !
Make up my cheque ! I’ll get the nags and sling
the rugs across ! ”
But Jack’s excuse was thin as rags and did not
’ceive the boss;
He looked the stockman through and through,
and smiled, the slightest thing,
“All right! Jack Fitch ! Good luck to you ! And
briny back Myall King l”
He packed the race mare Maori Belle, and rode
his hack, Gray Cloud,
We wished to pay his way but—well, Jack Fitch
was always proud!
We lent a hand to strap his load and then fare-
well we bade
And wished him luck upon the road—Jack’s
white as they are made !
And at the rails he shouted back, it seemed a
manly tiling —
“ I’ll come no more the Border Track unless with
Myall King ! ”
It was an hour before the dawn while gold stars
glittered still,
We saw him on the sky-line drawn, a dim wraith
on the hill;
He turned and waved his cabbage-tree, then can-
tered down the rise:
We turned away ! and as for me, the mist was in
my eyes!
I knew the man ; his word’s his thrall, and not a
light-flung thing ;
I knew if he came back at all he’d come with
Myall King !
The border roofs shone dimly white ; ’neath one a
lone lamp showed.
And Gray Cloud snorted at the light that barred
across the road ;
Then gate and gate were won and passed, and mile
and mile flung by,
And when the stockman camped at last the sun
was hot and high :
He gave the nags a southward start, short-hobbled
on one ring,
And boiled the billy, but his heart was South with
Myall King !
He thought of fights they both had fought, of toils
they both had shared,
And wondered what old Myall thought, and won-
dered if he cared.
He dreamed of how they won the Cup a year ago
that day—
How game the old horse finished up and beat the
little bay !
He thought of how some slower steed would race
to block the wing,
And wondered how they’d hold the lead without
old Myall King !
Then flung the saddles on their backs, and mounted
and away,
And never stayed to look for tracks, but rode by
night and day ;
One question on his lips in Bourke, one question
down the line,
Yet none could speak to aid his work or give a
favoring sign.
If all was truth the bushmen told, they had no
light to bring :
No horse had passed, was seen, or sold, the least
like Myall King !
While day by day, from night to noon, the
scorching summer went,
By naked road and dry lagoon Jack Fitch rode
ill-content;
He crossed the hungry Nyngan plains, south-
east, and down the Bland ;
He drew his weary horse’s reins in Riverina land;
With sheep he toiled among the rest all winter
till the spring,
But never once forgot his quest—the quest of
Myall King.
And now and then, when work was'slack, he raced
the Maori Belle,
Till, winning on the Wagga track, he sold her
more than well,
And riding northward on the gray for station
work to seek,
He camped at noon one sunny day upon the
Yanko Creek.
Some yards away a tent was spread, a camp-fire
in full swing,
And tied below a gum-bough-shed the stock-horse
Myall King!
His brand was not of Cooper’s Creek, for brands a
thief can mould ;
His face had lost the long white streak it used o
wear of old;
His white hind foot jet-black had grown, and
they had docked his tail—
And yet that style was all his own of standing at
a rail.
Though doctored brands work wonders rare, and
paint’s a curious thing,
Jack Fitch could swear to every hair that grows
on Myall King!
He tossed his rough bush-blanket down and hob-
bled out the gray,
And hailed tiie owner of the brown and passed
the time of day ;
And lunched with him to try and learn some facts
across the fire,
But, spite of all, his eyes would turn towards his
heart’s desire.
And when the beef and tea were done and pipes
were well a-swing,
He said : “ Good stamp of horse, my son ! ” with
nod to Myall King.
“The sort of horse you see round Bourke; I’ll
swear, a dainty hack !
The stamp of horse for cattle work —deep-ribbed
and short of back;
And if I’m any judge of pace, I’d say that nag
could go,
He’s got no white upon his face ? Ah ! no ! I
thought not ! No!”
The stripling’s cheek had blanch id with fright—a
hopeless, cornered thing—
He seemed to borrow half the white lie to )k from
Myall King !
Then Jack stood up, stockwhip in hand, and
looked him in the eyes—
“ I’d know that horse in Zululand fur all his f ik ; 1
disguise ! __
I’ve looked for him eight months or so —I don’t
care who you be—
Take up your thieving traps and go ! I’ll take the
horse with me ! ”
The stranger looked him up and down. Jack gave
his whip a swing
And, on his bearded face a frown, stepped up to
Myall King !
The grass was girth-high on the plain and summer
winds a-roam
When, pulling on the halter-rein, old Myall King
came home.
We saw the dust far down the bend, two horses
on the track,
The rider somehow seemed a friend, and then we
knew ’twas Jack!
We knew he would not pass the place, unless —he
chanced to bring !
And then we saw the old streak-face, and chpered
for Myall King !
And now along the Western side in cattle-muster-
ing time
They watch two champions .undenied, the heroes
of my rhyme—
The finest stockman, mouth to source, along the
Big Barcoo;
The grandest type of cattle-horse the Border ever
knew.
And when foam-splashed they head the van, or
thunder down the wing,
The bushmen tell you—“ That’s the man who
lifted Myall King ! ”
WILL OGILVIE.


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
Amost useful Veterinary Book is attached
to every bottle of Condy’s Fluid. This Book
contains instructions for curing most of the
ailments and accidents affecting Horses,
Dogs, Sheep, Cattle and Poultry.
In this Book eminent Veterinary Sur-
geons recommend Condy’s Fluid as a
certain cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
Broken Knees, Grease, Thrush and
Cracked Heels in Horses. —Scab, Foot
Rot, Fly, etc., in Sheep.—Hoove, Foul in
the Foot, Wounds and Sores in Cattle.
Condy’s Fluid is made by Condy &
Mitchell, Ltd., of 65, Goswell Road,
London, England, and is sold by all
Chemists and Stores. Beware of Colonial
Bubstitutes. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
U'S
<3-0 TO HJELIj-
KioI.ANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
)
Fred. Hagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
HATS.
HATS.
HATS
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
SRISBiVKTE.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Georgo Street, Sydney,
Have alwaj's on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted )/
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
£3®"" Stiles Held at the A net ion /looms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
.te
**V
SIMPSON’S JUMP-SEAT SULKIES.
Good Work.
Lowest Price,
Gash Only,
SIDNEY SIMPSON, Coachbuilder, 73 KING ST., NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Senator Neild suggests that the name of
N.S.W. be changed to Kingsland. Then let the
Federal capital be called Appendicitis, and all will
be loyal as loyal can be.
This we all know and feel and understand ;
Men reap their just rewards where they have sown ;
Who seeks for honors in a far-off land
Is probably a traitor in his own.
J.D.
Jingo Seddon has often declaimed on the
folly of appointing tottering fossils to the Upper
House. One of his latest appointments to the
“gilded chamber” is Mr. Jas. Holmes, aged 71
years.
The Boodle wrait h as a respecter of per-
sons. The high-salaried officials “retired” got
three months’ notice, but the temporary workmen
at the Museum got three days, and 80 hands at
Brisbane Govt. Printing Office got 12 hours.
The Queensland Government proposes
to abolish two Ministers, and reduce the pay of
the remainder. A long series of cheap and
inefficient Premiers having run it on the rocks
Queensland proposes trying what a still cheaper
variety of Premier will do.
Premier See’s official statement that
Maoriland refuses reciprocity in old age pensions,
and that Victoria treats the subject listlessly,
should nerve the Labor party to force the Com-
monwealth Parliament along the road of a general
and comprehensive pension law.
Queensland Government can claim the belt
for dog-meanness. It was decided to give the
poor at Dunwich Asylum a drink of beer on
Coronation Day, and three barrels of local
sheoak was purchased. As the Coronation did not
come off the Home Secretary, notwithstanding
that the beer had been sent down, had it brought
back and returned to the brewers!
S.M. Herald leader, July 3 :
A community that sets'aside some half a million a year
for provision for its aged poor, and some who, while aged,
are not so poor, can and ought to risk earmarking a
yearly grant of £200,000 by aid of which to help check the
ruinous progress of droughts.
Why fret and nag so over the old age pensions ?
Why not say that a community which can give
free postage to wealthy newspaper firms, squander
money on illuminations, and sink it in royal
guzzles, and pour it out in wars with people who
never injured Australia, can and ought, etc. ?
There is something inexpressibly mean in thus
girding at the o.a.p. without having courage
enough to call directly for the repeal of the Act.
"OUT OF THE FULL-
NESS OF THE HEART.”
H ER: "He doesn’t seem to
have a care in the world.”
HIM: “How should he? He’s not
to he married until next Monday.”
The whirling Owe’Sullivan has lately been
beating the air with his two arms and his hat, and
orating something extra about the time to come
when Sydney will be the biggest, grandest, richest
city in the Southern hemisphere. Well, Sydney
did almost appear to be pointing that way about
31 years ago. It was about 30,000 in population
behind Buenos Ayres then, and 100,000 behind
Rio Janeiro, and was holding its own pretty well
against Melbourne. Now, it is 340,000 behind
Buenos Ayres and 260,000 behind Rio Janeiro,
and it will take a long stern-chase to make up the
ground it has lost.
One unforgiveable crime in Queensland
is that of growing old. As part of the
scheme of retrenchment now being carried out,
Minister Leahy issues an ultimatum of dismissal
to railway employees over 65 years, or over 60 and
physically weak. No age, however, or weakness
is considered a barrier to becoming a law-maker,
a Judge, a Minister, a Governor, or a King.
N.S.W. Assembly has passed again a bill
to legitimise children born out of wedlock, but at
a time when wedlock was legally possible between
the parents, if they subsequently marry. The
Upper House will probably throw it out: mem-
bers of the Upper House do not, generally speak-
ing, belong to the class which is conspicuous for
doing the square thing by the lady afterwards.
Brisbane Courier and its pup, the
Observer, have lately developed a “nagging”
tone towards Premier Philp what time they butter
up papa-in-law Rutledge, the now-bebaubled
lawyer who is casting sheeps’-eyes at the Toga.
Should Philp get that coveted job, the struggle
for the mantle t wixt the man of law and “ Janny ”
Leahy would probably split the unfortunate gar-
ment right up the middle.
Premier See has reported to the Imperial
Government that Norfolk Island is practically a
part of the Commonwealth. But, if so, what pro-
vision has the Federal Government made, or
indicated that it will make, to give the islanders
the benefits of the Constitution ? At present, if
the rule they are subject to can be given any
briefly-deseriptive name, it must be that of an
irresponsible bureaucracy.
The sugar planter, under all mutations of
fortune, contrives to “ fall soft.” If he continues
to employ Kanakas, cutting cane only costs him
2s. 3d. a ton. If he take advantage of the Federal
bonus and employ white labor, he gets his cane
both trashed and cut for about ss. a ton (around
Cairns), while the far Northern bonus is ss. 6d. a
ton. He will, therefore, take no harm even if
Tommy Tanna goes for ever.
A cheeky thing on the part of Sydney
D.T. is to publish in the same issue a wild cry for
economy and also a wild cry for the North Shore
bridge. The bridge should be built, and any pro-
posal to put it up out of revenue (raised by a
special tax in Sydney and suburbs) would
be cordially supported by The Bulletin ; but
the present is most emphatically not the time to
borrow one or two or three millions for its con-
struction.
“ Glenara ” : The Melbourne papers would
make one think that the Vic. farmer was running
about ready to violently assault anyone who
didn’t declare himself a disciple of a certain
scheme, named “Kyabram.” But he isn’t. If
he takes any notice of this “ all cry and no wool ”
movement, it is merely to remark, with a derisive
chuckle, that “ old John West’s on the job again.”
Some 20 years ago, West set-to to “save the
country” by growing tomatoes, up Mooroopna
way, and, as a country-saver, he has kept himself
prominently before the public ever since. But an
ungrateful nation, somehow, doesn’t seem to ap-
preciate his efforts, and any movement headed by
John receives only the scornful sniggers of a
ribald populace. So the Vic. farmer goes placidly
about his business, despite the fact that the Aus-
tralasian keeps telling him every Saturday how
excited he is about “economic reform.”
The select committee of N.S.W. Parlia-
ment re paper trains is, if possible, making
the position less comprehensible than ever.
Railway officials deposed that the paper-
trains paid well without any fee from the
papers, and that there was a distinct benefit
to the Railway Commissioners from the distribu-
tion of the Sydney papers in certain districts.
This deepens the mystery as to why the Railway
Commissioners should refuse to continue the
paper-trains without a special subvention. Are
they in the habit of, so to speak, cutting off their
noses to spite their faces?
What to do with the interminable spouters
in N.S. W. Parliament reaches another stage. “That
he be no longer heard,” is so drastic that few mem-
bers care to put the motion. The variant talked
of, therefore, is that after 15 minutes it be moved
that “the balance of a member’s speech be taken
as if delivered.” That will enable him to hand
the balance to Hansard, while saving the time
and temper of the House.
A letter professing to be signed by a dark
person named “ Allie Khan ” ap-
pears in Launceston. Examinee.
“ Allie ” says that he is against the
Immigration Restriction Act, and
that he and all the other Khans
“ are true British subjects, claim-
ing all the rights and privileges of
Englishmen themselves.”. If this
is so Allie had better sprint on his
two dusky heels back to his own land
and there claim a vote and a local
Parliament, such as England,
Canada, Australia, and Maoriland
have. Then when Imperial Federa-
tion comes, the Khan crowd, com-
posing three-fourths of the popula-
tion of the empire, and claiming
all the rights and privileges of
Englishmen, will run the show.
But England treats Allie Khan as
an inferior and degraded object, un-
fit to enjoy the first essential privi-
lege of an Englishman, and why
should we welcome the degraded
object here ? Also, why should we
imply, by treating Khan as an
equal, that England is a tyrant and
oppressor in rating Khan as it
does ? What is Khan to us that we should cast
evil reflections and insinuations at England on
Khan’s account ? Blow Khan !
“ Chamberlain, the father of the old-age-
pension idea ! ” £l3 a year to a man of 65 who
has deposited £5 at 25 and paid £1 a year all the
time after, was a mockery. That was Chamber-
lain’s “ noble project,” and even that he aban-
doned on the ground that the balance between
what the workman paid and the ss. a week would
be too heavy a load for the British taxpayer.
Further, the Chamberlain scheme allowed women
pensioners only half as much as men—2s. 6d. per
week.
Dry Dog lieid is going to start another
series of lectures in Victoria. Presumably his
idea is to explain why he was a Foreign-trade
Premier who heavily protected beer, wine,
tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, biscuits, confectionery,
newspapers, sugar, treacle, molasses, jams, jellies
and certain fruits; why every duty he levied,
save that on spirits, was a Protective duty ; why
he raised £700,000 a year by Protective duties;
why he denied practising Protection all this time;
and why his Dog didn’t get wet.
Cornstalk Premier See, being asked when
the promised referendum re the reduction of
members is to take place, replied in his deepest
voice that as soon as the Womanhood Suffrage
Bill, the Audit Bill, the Municipal Bill “ amd
other important measures” (not specified, but
there may be 48 of them, including the Bill for the
Abolition of Original Sin) have been disposed of he
will be prepared, not to bring in the Referendum
Bill, but to tell the Assembly what he is going to
do about it. In other words, the very instant
that Sheol freezes he will attend to the matter.
No sooner had Premier Irvine truckled to
the Kyabramapootra by altering the proposed
membership of his proposed reduced Assembly
from 66 to 56 than the E. Gippsland election
showed him how grievously he had over-estimated
that vociferous animal. Of the four candidates
Roberts, a Bairnsdale councillor, got the support
of both Age and Argus, and the assistance of a
big gun of the Reform League, specially sent up
to rush him in. He rushed in fairly—at the very
foot of the poll, easily beaten, even by the heavily-
weighted Conant (he has five front names), who
ran on his own and declined to advocate reform in
any shape whatever.
Sydney Telegraph, after crying out
bitterly through nearly a year for reductions of
the Federal tariff, told people in a recent leader
(Monday, July 7) that because of these reductions
there is hardly any hope of the tariff yielding
enough to keep the country solvent—in fact, that
through being fool enough to take the Tele-
graph’s advice it is on the high-road to bank-
ruptcy. This is akin to its action in urging the
House of Reps, to squash the proposed iron bonuses,
and immediately the thing was done pub-
lishing an article on the splendid results achieved
under the bonus system in Canada —just to let its
credulous followers see what they had thrown
away at its instigation. A paper which does that
sort of thing must have a fine large contempt for
the intelligence of its followers.
Premier See dropped in at Bourke
(N.S.W.) recently, and told that far-out town
among other things, that he proposed to establish
a Local Government system —a system by which
each district would pay for its own local wants.
Bourke, which has Local Government, approved of
this self-reliant policy thoroughly, and gave three
cheers. Then by way of helping along the
doctrine of self-reliance, the mayor asked the
Government to take over and maintain the
principal road and bridge in the municipality, to
pay for cleaning out the water mains, to grant
money for the park, to repair the streets and foot-
paths, and to cancel a debt of £lBl5 owing to it by
the Council. His Washup’s plea was that the
Council is “broke.” The Council is broke be-
doesn’t levy enough rates. In England,
where municipal rates vary from 3s. to 9s. Bd.
in the £ councils don’t go broke as a rule—
ILLUMINATE
THE CITY-
-LIGHT IS GOOD.
(& FOOD [?] FIRING
VERY DEAR [?]A
CORONAZION
EVEN. CAN,
WITH ITS BIA-
-ZONRY. CASTA
GLOW ON THE
SLUMN. &
SILHOUETTE [?]
SHIVERING
POOR.
“ The illuminations arranged for the Coronation,
are to he held this Thursday, Friday, and Satur-
day, to indicate rejoicings for the King’s re-
covery.”—DAILY PAPER.
they simply pay their way. N.S.W. law, by the
restrictions it puts on the rates that a municipality
can levy, makes local Government a shrieking
farce.
Cable from London to New York Sun, on,
June 3, re the Boer peace :
Oolonial-Secretary Chamberlain had an audience with
the King at Buckingham Palace last evening. There is
reason to believe that he is displeased with the terms,
which he considers the King forced on him. He has
received the popular ovations for his statesmanship with
scarcely a smile. He has said to friends, in criticism of
the easiness of the terms and in the relation of the Coro-
nation to the settlement, that the Government has been
forced to sell the Empire for a circus. His irreconcilable
Imperialist allies say large sums of money passed through
indirect channels to certain Boers before peace was
signed.
Things like that never come along the wires of the
Australian Cable Trust. We heard nothing of the
blood-hungry Chamberlain gnawing his vexation
at the King’s interference on behalf of peace. To
the last, though, Chamberlain tried to save his
face. Kitchener’s peace-message was—
Peace signed last night.
Chamberlain’s —
The Boer leaders last night signed the terms of
surrender proposed by Great Britain.
The poorly-paid men in Vic. civil service
are the first to feel the “great reform movement.”
The Irvine Govt, has determined to stop all in-
crements in the Railway and Public service. In
doing this, Ministers are striking at the least for-
tunate class of men. All officers who have reached
the maximum of their class will not be affected by
the decision. Those who have been struggling
upward for years past will bear the whole force of
the retrenchment. A much fairer way of keeping
the outlay within limits would have been to bring
in a percentage reduction. This, however, would
have meant that the whole of the service would
have turned against the Govt., as in the case of the
late lamented Patterson. The “ strong administra-
tion ” which Iceberg Irvine has got together did
not feel equal to the strain, so it adopted the
shabby and cowardly method of attacking the
most defenceless class of the service. Of course,
when one remembers the way the average public
servant wore flags in his hat and whooped for war
expenditure, and the waste of good money on bad
pomp and show over the Dookoyork, one sees that
he deserves little sympathy in his distress.
Already one local application has been
received for the Governor-Generalship of Aus-
tralia. It was from Victoria, and read thus:
Honored Sir,—l most respectfully beg leave to take the
liberty of making application to you for position as
Governor-General of Australia, as there is now a vacancy
caused by his Excellency our noble Governor-General
Lord Hopetoun retiring. I beg leave to say, sir, I have
been much disappointed in my applications for a billet in
the Railway Department. I have always been told by the
railway authorities they got no vacancy for me. I would
feel highly honored to have the name of being Governor-
General for Australia. I have been always in favor of
federation, and having all the colonies one united Aus-
tralia, which, I am glad to say, they are now ; and I hope
the people of these different States will soon begin to
receive a lucrative benefit from federated Australia, as I
hope we are now on the eve of prosperity. Please, sir,
grant my request.—l remain, honored sir, your most
obedient servant.
The Bulletin, having already nominated Charles
Arnold, in bis “ Captain Fritz ” uniform, for the
position, can’t endorse the above application, yet
there is nothing wildly absurd about it. The
Governor-General has very little real business to
do except lie back and approve of United Aus-
tralia.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advant ige
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.


Lad ie
OOTS
You may
Depend
on a Fit
i
i
A
r
• •.
.
Post and
Duty
Free.
Great
Comfort,
Long
Wear,
You’ll
Find in
Every Pair
This Lady’s Boot is very stylish,
comfortable, and long-wearing 1 .
We have sizes varying so slightly
that we know, we can fit your feet to a
nicety. We shall be pleased if you can
call and see this Boot; but if you live too
far away for that we can fill your order exactly
through our Mail Order Department, for this or
any other Boot or Shoe from stocks unequalled in the
Commonwealth for variety in style and durability in wear.
■ V/11, ■ MW W
A thoroughly good reliable BUTTON BOOT, made of American glace-kid, with a dressy stylish
patent leather toe-cap. Wear as well as comfort assured.
dfg
CALLAGHAN BOOTS or SHOES can be EXCHANGED if not correct.
' Your Money RETURNED if you are not satisfied.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st., Sydney.
INDIGESTION
Conquered Again
.... BY
VITADATIO
Mr. S. A. PALMER,
Dear Sir, —I had been a great sufferer from indigestion
for five or six years, with headaches, giddiness, heavy
and oppressed feelings ; added to these about eight
months ago severe pains seized one of my legs from the
knee downwards, and became a source of real agony to
me, destroying my rest at nights, and causing me worry
and trouble during the day. After much pain and
anxiety I called at your Adelaide office about four months
ago, and as the result decided to try VITADATIO, and I
took four bottles. It is now three months since I
finished the last bottle, and I am pleased to say that
the excruciating pain has entirely left my leg. The
headaches and -oppressed feelings have disappeared. I
am able to enjoy food that I dared not touch before, and
feel very thankful for what VITADATIO has done for
me.
You may mention my name to any enquirer who may
be interested, and who may desire relief such as I have
obtained.
(MRS.) S. WOODHEAD.
Golden Grove, South Australia.
Full address on application to VITADATIO Head
Institute, 238 Rundle-street, Adelaide.
For further particulars,
■s. A. PALMER ,
184 L Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for, Testimonials.
The Price of Medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
Neuralgia is responsible . . .
for a great number of the careworn
... faces so frequently-, piet with both
■ in the city and country. All
neuralgic pains and headaches can
be speedily removed by taking
Newman’S SPECIAL NEURALGIA POWDER, 21-
By post, 2/2.
NEWMAN, GHEMIST, 82 King-street, Sydney.
CAPILLA
HAIR
TONIC
The Hair Renewer of the Age.
All Chemists.
2/6 per bottle.
W. RICHARDS, Proprietor,
164 Pitt Street. Sydney,
Rheumatism.
It’s Cause —It’s Cure.
Rheumatism is caused by the bad blood—therefore
it must be cured by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills which
make the blood good. That puts the whole matter
in a nutshell.
Doctors used to think that rheumatism was brought
on by cold in the joints and muscles—but cold never
started the disease. Cold only sets the pains going.
Rheumatism is a blood disease. The medicine that
doesn’t touch the blood doesn’t touch the disease.
Hot cloths and liniments never cured rheumatism.
How could they ?
The cause of the trouble lies in the blood—and
through the blood it must be attacked. When people
deny that they don’t know what they’re talking about.
Drive the rheumatism out of the blood with the
great blood medicine—Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
They expel all poison from your system. They fill
up your veins with pure blood. They soothe your
nerves. They build up your strength. They don’t
leave rheumatism or sciatica a leg to stand on.
That’s not mere talk. It’s absolute fact. It has
been proved over and over again in this very State.
How they cured George J. Cowan. “The aching
pains of rheumatism settled in my shoulders and arms some years
ago,” writes Mr. George J. Cowan, a prosperous miner at King’s
Plains, Blayney. “ The disease,stiffened the muscles of my right
arm so that I could not lift it to my head. I consulted both a
chemist and a doctor. I swallowed medicines rubbed in
liniments till I was tired—but they did me little good. The
pains in xny shoulders and limbs grew worse and worse, and kept
me awake for many a night. Then I read a pamphlet about Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. I tried them—and within the very
first week the pains lessened, and I was able to sleep better.
Three boxes cured me without a doubt. They made me strong and
active again—and I have been free from ache or pain ever since.”
Dr. Williams pink pills for pale people
Sold by all dealers, or sent post paid for 2a 9d a box, or six boxes for 16s Bd.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney, °®-
The Australian settlement in the New
Hebrides, it is now announced, will probably be
worked by colored labor. Is this the latest way
of advertising White Australia ?
Extract from the Kanakas’ petition to the
King, protesting against future deportation : —
Many of us have been married in Queensland churches,
to women belonging to islands and tribes with whom our
tribal law would not permit us to marry. If we took our
wives to our old homes they would be killed.
The petition (carefully manoeuvred by Philp
engineers) says nothing of the fact that nine-tenths
of the Islanders are condemned, by the circum-
stances of the traffic, to unnatural celibacy, and
that the only chance of their ever enjoying family
life would be in a return to the Islands where the
women are. The wording of this precious docu-
ment would give the Imperial authorities to
understand that most of the Polynesians are
already married, and liable to lose their wives on
returning—a totally false impression.
Two begging brown brethren, described as
Deacon Elia George and Monk John Zachariah,
who are passing the collection-plate for a church
said to be located near the site of ancient Nine-
veh, were recently blocked out of Queensland
under the Undesirable Brown Man’s Immigration
Law, and certain Brisbane papers describe it as a
Scandalous and Unchristian Proceeding. But
surely any brown person should have known
enough to keep away from Queensland, of all
places. When a sordid State Government con-
fiscated the brown men’s pearl-shelling licenses
some years ago, and utterly destroyed their busi-
ness, so that the pearling industry might be a close
preserve for a few of its own rich friends, it hung
out a pretty large signboard as a warning. Also,
why should brown apostles be allowed to wave
their plate in a drought-stricken land that has to
send Bishop Webber to the Old Country to cadge
contributions to support its own church ? Why
should these men be allowed to land, when an
Asiatic hawker is refused ingress? Is begging
more honorable than bullocking along under a
hawker’s bundle ?
COLLECTIVE INVESTIGATION.—The ex-
perience of millions of people in all quarters of the
habitable globe during the last quarter of a
century has confirmed the value of Hunyadi Janos
as the best and safest natural aperient. In-
valuable to diners-out.*
The affairs of arrogant “Johnny” Wallace,
M.L.C. (deceased) are being again discussed in a
Melb. law court, and though it is not certain that
J. A. Wallace, M.L.C., died insolvent, the present
proceedings have settled any doubt as to the
essential crookedness of the vain-glorious old
man’s dealings with the Monahan Estate.
Posing as a successful speculator “ on his own,”
which seems to have been his one Fatman ambi-
tion in life, Wallace knew that he was playing
with trust money, and dropping it more often
than not. Some years ago a sympathetic Judge
found him guilty of breaches of trust, and removed
him gently from his autocratic control of the
Monahan Estate, wherein he had only a l-6th
interest. The amount of his liability to that
trust estate is still shrouded in a haze of compli-
cations, but it has been shown that up to Oct. 16,
1901, JJ226,000 of principal was owing by Wallace
to the estate. But seeing that the present claim of
solvency for old Johnny’s own estate is based on
the allegation that some of his mining shares have
increased in value since his death , it really
amounts to an admission of his having
been insolvent when he died, despite the
undue advantages he had derived from
the application of his children’s money to his
personal business ends. This was the indignant
John Wallace, who struck attitudes of rugged
rectitude in the witness box a few years ago. His
children were applying for a new trustee, in place
of dear father. “They’ll have it all when I’m
gone,’* said he, referring to the mixed family
estates, but the trouble is that a lot of it was gone
before; Wallace followed it to the grave. Where’s
the statue which the admiring inhabitants of
Beech worth and thereabouts talked of erecting to
“Johnny’s” honor? Let it be erected forthwith.
A marble figure of the hero, leaning on his terrible
walking-stick, the massive pedestal inscribed as
follows:—“John Alston Wallace, for . . . years
a truly typical member of Vic. Leg. Council, and
a man who was able to say of himself in an
electioneering circular— ‘I have never had a black
mark against my name.’ ’*
The humorless Jawbone Neild tried to
make a joke in the Senate last week, and the
laugh was at him instead of with him. Eftsoons
a Noc,ent Waterspout arose and inquired if it was
a fact that Mr. R. E. O‘Connor, Q.C., gave it as
his opinion, two years ago, that the seat of Federal
Government must, under the Constitution, be in
N.S.W. from the very beginning, and if that
person was identical with Senator R. E. OO’onnor,
K.C. ? To which Senator O'Connor replied,
blandly, that he had received no official informa-
tion from himself as to whether he gave the
opinion or not; also that the question of his
identity with Mr. R. E. O’Connor involved a
psychological problem on which experts differed.
Whereupon Eftsoons a Nocent Waterspout sadly
sat down.
“Galvo”: Major Cardew’s recommenda-
tions to the Sydney City Council to accept the
tender of a British firm for the electric lighting of
the city was a slap in the face to the Yankees,
who made certain they would secure the order.
It will be the first electrical-machinery contract
of any importance that an English firm has
secured during the last few years in Australia.
(True, the Melb. machinery is English, but it
would undoubtedly have been German, only that
the Jingo war fev»qr was at its height at the time
the order was placed,, and was taken advantage of
by the cute agent for the English co. which put in
the next-lowest tender). The firm recommended is
a large British concern run on American lines
by American managers, and although only
recently started is rapidly capturing the
British traction market. Possibly after J.
Bull has had a few more lessons such as he
has been taught within the last decade, he
will wake up and assume something like his old
position in the engineering world. It takes
trouble to turn out decent work in engineering,
and the Yankees, as a rule, don’t come near to
British work for quality. The difficulty during
the last few years has been that the British
engineer didn’t care a darn for his customers’
wishes. In his conceit he reckoned that what he
considered the world wanted was what the world
wanted, and it was not until the Yanks invaded
even his own home market that he began to realise
the position. Let iiim once revise his business
methods, pay more attention to his customers’
wishes, and to details, such as prompt shipping
and decent packing, and he may—if lie can only
shake off the curse of “ restricted output,” which
has been such an incubus to the trade the last few
years—yet make the Yankees sit up, at any rate
in British markets.
The cursa of gore and bluster has come to
roost on the Vic. public servant’s household with
a vehgeance. That intensely Jingo person was to
the fore right through the whole series of “ loyal ’
extravagances. He spent mudh of his time during
the past two years rushing about the streets with
liquor inside him and flags in his hat, demanding
that Britain should be helped with men and
money, whether she wanted them or not. Also he
made much of a very little duke, and eagerly
assisted Govt, to put all its available cash into
fripperies and illuminations. And when Hope-
toun gloomily signified that he was displeased
with the Australian people because they wouldn’t
give him more than £45,000 to spend in 18 months,
the public servant was prompt at pronouncing it
a pity that we should let that hospitable noble go
for the want of a little more pocket-grease. Now,
the Irvine Govt, has stopped all increments, be-
cause all these things have left a big deficit in the
chest that Shiels sits on. If it hadn’t been for all
the waste of money on cohentingents and other
crazes, the public servant might have gone on
restfully and. drawn his increment without
hindrance.
Nuttall’s brown-and-white (monochrome)
painting of the opening of the first Commonwealth
Parliament is a much more respectable work than
its “ highah-art ” critics will admit it to be. The
scene in Melb. Exhibition Building is shown from
the point of view of a spectator standing a little
way back in the western nave, with the Jookal
platform to the right, the Commonwealth Minis-
ters to the left, in the north transept, and a sea of
faces in front of him stretching back to the main
public.entrance. Regarded as a work of portraits
rather than a work of art, Nuttall’s picture is not
to be sneezed at. A more comprehensibly faith-
ful representation of three-fourths of the spectacle
could hardly have been crowded into the space.
Scores of people who were actually there are recog-
nisable—in their proper places—at a glance. The
portraits of the Little Jook and his Duchess, and the
Hopetouns are stiffly accurate and accurately stiff.
It was a stiff, formal occasion, and Nuttall has got
his subjects in their habits as they lived. And if
some few of the distinguishable figures in the vast
congregation are portraits of identities who didn’t
happen to be at the ceremony at all, or didn’t
stand exactly where the artist has popped them in
—well, it is a “syndicate” picture, compiled on
sound commercial principles. After all, the man
with the camera is the one and only honest pro-
ducer of a historical scene, and even he tells a lot
of individual lies in the retouching.


Banking. Public Companies, fto.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
cs*
$5-
#
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
TO-.S.^W-.
|||ont deplete DJI. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLE RE AGH ST., *J/L
' SYDNEY *
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
'—THE-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. O. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruck Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Mili,kr.
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372 —assuring £26,085,346.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
Pi lilies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling- Liberal Bonuses—emiitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
gank of Dorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Si dney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ... £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... 250 900 ... £350,000
fbT TrGst€€S, CxccGtorS,
AND
AgsOCV CorppaQy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) .... ..
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 3bth June, 1901
fl 50,000 0 0
t'90,000 0 0
£150,000 0 0
£BB5B 7 3
16,388,976 5 3
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROVVMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMIT KD.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £423,000
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 209,581
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 54,000
£686,581
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amoun t of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital
.. £2,500,000
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. TAd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Svdney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Go.), Hon. John See, Lt.-001. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Faulane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
A&S6raQC€ Society.
(ESTABLISHED 1879.)
THE MOST LIBERAL AND PROGRESSIVE
LIFE OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA.
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and Castlereagh
Streets, Sydney.
VICTORIAN BRANCH:
Baring Chambers, Market Street, Melbourne.
Wm. Bennett, Manager.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH:
36 and 38 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
JAS. GLISSAN, Resident Secretary.
GEO. CROWLEY, General Manager.
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Saturday, July 12, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra, Monday, July 14,5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, July 19, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer Early.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer Early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Saturday, July 12, 2 p.m.
Gabo, Tuesday, July 15, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, July 19, 2 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Saturday, July 12, 2 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, July 19, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o' Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Natal , Capetown, Plymouth, and
London.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
AUSTRALASIAN..
SOPHOCLES
SALAMIS..
T. F. Spalding
H. A. Schleman
A. H. H. Douglas,
R.N.R.
Noon, July 11
Noon, August 1
Noon, August 22
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. £55 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. £3l 10s .. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, parker $ go’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, lIOMART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Pares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
crjNcv
LIKTE
via
San Francisco,
California.
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS,
SIERRA
SONOMA **
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P.
Length, 425 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries oomplled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
-DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 62 Market-street. Melbourne.
FULL DRESS
SUITS...
AND
INFORMAL DINNER
THEATRE SUITS
ARE . .
SPECIALITIES OF OURS.
David Braham & Co.,
TAILORS and COSTUME MAKERS,
73 & 75 SYDNEY.
Samples of. any Description of Suitings posted free
by return mail, with Self-Measure Charts when
required. i— mr
FOR ACETYLENE GAS
• \
1\
__al
B •
“ WE ARE
THE PEOPLE.”
Over 300 of our Reliable
Acetylene Gas Genera-
tors in daily use, and all
giving satisfaction.
We also supply Table,
Portable, Street, and
other Lamps for Acety-
lene Gas and all accesso-
ries.
We carry large stocks of
Carbide of Calcium.
Send for our No. 56
Acetylene Gas Catalogue
Martin’s Advance Acetylene Table Lamp. Price £1 7s. 6d.
James MARTIN & CO.,
161 Clarence Street,
Nr. King-st., Sydney.
SLATERS
DETECTIVES.
1 BAS INCH ALL S\. £C
Enc .
Acknowledged by both tho Press and
the Public to be the Finest Organisation
of Male and Female Detective Talent in the
World for Private Inquiries. Representatives in
every town on earth. Consultations free.
HENRY SLATER, Manager,
1 Basinghall-street, London, England.
Cables, “ Distance,” London.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address. —L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
time table.
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
rg
Kr. D. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OP
Twin Screw Steamers.
rnnHf E f G f ERS BOOKED Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
■London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
G.M.S.
GERA
KARLSRUHE
STUTTGART
WEIMAR
*P. R. LUITPOLD
OLDENBURG
RHEIN
Tons
5005
5057
5048
5001
6288
5006
10058
Commander.
Sydney
1 p.m.
C. Bardeleben.. July 19
A. Koenemann'Aug. 2
P. Grosch .. Aug. 16
Woltersdorff Sep. 6
Oesselmann .. iSep. 27
H. Formes Oct. 18
G. Rott . iNov. 8
Ade-
laide,
2 p.m.
July 26
Aug. 9
Aug. 23
Sep. 13
Oct. 4
Oct. 25
Nov. 15
*Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
forßph^ 6 k ln L ol °2? Eefcurn Tickets are now available
s Stea “- s the P. and 0., Orient
• TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. TANGLIN, 23rd JULY,
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
S/'crlnlSS 6 ’ B^ st Accommodation, Excellent
tSe VS • For further particulars ap p'y
strL K t! sydne°y HMANN & LIMITED - 7 and 9 ™dge-
CANADIAM-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
Miowera, July 14.
Aorangi, August 11.
GRAND EXCURSION TO ROCKY MOUNTAINS
OF AMERICA.
THE FINEST EVER OFFERED IN AUSTRALIA.
£6O FOR 63 DAYS,
Including Steamer, Railway, and Hotel
Expenses.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
DEAFNESS.
In addition to the inconvenience inherent in the
infirmity itself, DEAFNESS has a marked influence on
the Mental Development of the individual, when the
latter has been attacked by it in youth.
For a long time DEAFNESS and CHRONIC AFFEC-
TIONS OF THE EAR have been considered almost
incurable, but recently a very simple means has been
found in the ELEOTRICON to successfully amflv
METALLIC GALVANIC ELECTRICITY direct to the
Ears, PERMANENTLY CURING DEAFNESS, and com-
pletely banishing all distressing head noises.
Those who are interested in the subject would do
well to read the complete description of this method of
treatment in-the “ Journal for the Deaf,” published by the
R. VERNON COY.,
60, 64 Hunter-street, Sydney,
and sent FREE to anyone asking for it.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIPCO;
(LIMITED). '
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
for MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping afc Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Innamincka,
Friday, July 11.
S.S. Marloo
(from Melbourne),
Tuesday, July 22.
BRISBANE
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Calms
S.S. Allinga, Friday, July u.
■ S. S. Innamincka, Sat. July 19.
S.S. Warrego, Sat., July 26.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields
fljfc oporfPhTvfAßtlo 0 porf P hTvfAB tl0 M fc^ arS infceroha n','eab!e after the
nrst Fort between Melbourne and Cairns wirh the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith Co ,
F w A< ?fwu® , and W - A - all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
aitions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YU ILL. & CO., LTD.,
STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Coy Ltd
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE -Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Maekay.
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly
SYDNEY AND ROOKHAMPTON-Twice weekly, via Bris-
Maryborough, and Bundaberg.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN-Every 8 Weeks vi v UrW
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
®MDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly. 3
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA
via MELBOURNE—Fortnightly.
Rassens/er A cconiniodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
nrst port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Som,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application,
ror Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Agents, lit Bridge-
and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
D AND Q COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
. on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
Steamer.
Commander.
Sydney,
Noon
OCEANA ..
VICTORIA .
AUSTRALIA..
BRITANNIA..
HIMALAYA ..
6603 0. R. Longden, R.N.R.
6527 E. Crewe ..
6901 F. J. Cole
6525 F. H. Seymour
6898 W. L. Broun, R.N.R,
July
July
Aug.
Aug.
Sept.
12
26
9
23
6
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £/7
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific,
Messageries Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia;
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with tha
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows : -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meal)
the passengers for London and give them every assi stance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Gala! <.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company O.tice*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Ag • it.
“E. RHP R.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Through bookings to points in Canada, United States
of America and Europe at special rates.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
Lowest Fares and Freishts.
For further information apply to
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents!
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
SMOKE
THE
✓
dr
GBD
X
■4*
INSIST
having this Brand
and no other.
Australian Depot :
231 CLAR€NC€ STR€€T r
SYDNEY.


In Sydney -District Court, t’other day, a
female witness, on being sworn by Judge Murray,
who is particularly solemn, nearly dropped the
Book, in her eagerness to speak the truth, and,
before being asked a single question, began: “ I
am 25 years of age. ” They stopped her at once,
and the Judge looked quite dubious.
Ed. Bulletin, — Re your recent remark
that a young girl possibly runs more moral risk in
attending religious services than in serving in a
public bar. I remember that, when the Revivalists
—precursors of the Moody and Sankey mania and
Booth delirium —were rife in Ayrshire, Scotland,
in the district of Dunlop, famous for its cheese, ille-
gitimacy increased by over 33 per cent.; and, as
in most God-fearing communities, the rate had
already been pretty high.— C.
A lady suggests a drastic remedy :
The experiment of spreading an inadequate number of
Mary Anns over a vast number of missuses is being tried
by a State Registry Office in N.S.W., private enterprise
having given up the problem. The ancient custom of
collecting half-a-crown from the prospective Mary Ann,
which practice the private middleman or shark con-
sidered the most important part of his business, has been
entirely abolished. Mary Anns are so scarce that to ask
for even 2Jd. would shoo the disappearing remnant right
over the horizon. So the State Registry Office does not
find a place for Mary Ann—it merely tries to find a Mary
Ann for several places, and the number of unfilled places
swells visibly every day. Meanwhile the casual-fnan
market is overstocked, and the alleged superior male
Eerson is such a drug in the market that a lot of him
ave to be given a home and a chance to earn tucker at
Bunnerong Labor Farm. Truly, to reach that Beiilah-land
he must have arrived at a specified stage of decay, and be
without hope, boots, beer and money; he must wear a
hangdog expression and be wrapped round with a hideous
limpness which is an infallible sign that the subject has
lost even the mental ability to make a sustained effort.
Then the Farm takes him in and proceeds to cobble and
patch what has been subverted by sleeping under No. 6
fig-tree and living on an irregular diet of counter-lunch
and the blessing of Providence. After a period of turnip-
grow'ing and pumpkin-cultivation he comes forth
renovated and starts out to look for work. Sometimes he
finds it, most often he doesn’t, and he drifts back to the
Domain and the familiar fig-tree, and slips into the habit
of dining irregularly again, and once more qualifies
for the rebuilding process. Meanwhile the State
Commissioners are losing flesh and sleep over the in-
creasing elusiveness of Mary Ann. Up to now it
does not seem to have entered the regal brain
of little great man Schey that the built-up product of Bun-
nerong Labor Farm is the ideal remedy for this dearth of
Mary Ann. Domestic work is suitable for a certain class
of men—it is the only thing they are fitted for. Also,
these men, if they were trained, would make better
domestic servants than the class of female that still
remains in the business. Therefore, let the Bunnerong
Farm give up teaching men how to grow cabbages in
the sand, and how to cultivate pumpkins on a slab
of granite. Let them be taught how to wait at tabie,
to polish up the interior of the fish-kettle, and to dis-
criminate between a stewpan and a frying-pan, and
be generally inculcated into the mysteries of a polite
kitchen, and then drafted to Potts or Darling Point, to a
good home and decent wages. Barring compulsory
domestic service, this is the only remedy for what is
known as “ The Problem.”
K
K
43
X
That har<J
cough of
yours
what are
you doing
for it? Look
out, or it
will bind
you with
all the
strength of a powerful chain.
Ayers
Cherry Pectoral
cures coughs and colds, even hard
coughs and old colds.
Mrs. A. White, of Fitzroy, Victoria,
says: “I had a very hard cough night
and day. I tried many remedies, but
without relief. I thought my lungs
were nearly gone. I then tried Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral. I began to improve
at once, and only one and one-half bot-
tles completely cured me.”
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them ! Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
USB
SPOONER’S
A
SPOONER
V
v
*
IKTENT LEATHER BOOTS
'GLAZED RIOS &?
*## #*.*#»•
•;.w »•> »#»< t****
**•■•.*'W •*’***’
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (if
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings
Etc., Eto,
Sold by all Storekeepers
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
••QLATER’S DETECTIVES.” Acknowledged by
both the Press and the Public to be the finest
organisation of Male and Female Detective talent in the
World for private inquiries. Representatives in every
towii on-earth. =■. Consultations Free. HENRY SLATER
Manager, No. 1 BASINGHALL STREET, LONDON
ENGLAND. Gables, “ Distance,” London.
Price,
21/-
Port Atm
/
m
%
Price,
21/-
Post Fre#
NO BETTER VALUE IN
AUSTRALIA!
We offer a Special Line in Watches at manufacturer’s
prices—viz., 21/-. If you buy one you know you are
not paying the middlemen’s profits and you know
you are getting absolutely the Best Watch procurable
at the price. It is Solid Silver Keyless Lever and is
double cased. Unless unfairly used we keep it in
good order for 2 years free of cost.
Carriage Paid Anywhere.
Money back if you want It.
L. I. FLEGELTAUB,
Watchmaker & Jeweller,
96 KING STREET, SYDNEY (and at London)
Gr
IVEN AWAY
To Advertise our
OSTRICH TIPS,
Post
2/6
Free.
3 Black Tips with Ospreys
A Marvel of Cheapness.
gd
A GIFT POE THE LADIES.
5
Graceful and
becoming for Young
%<l or Old.
k Ostrich
Tips.
The Bunch.
Worth 10/6.
TWO VERY SUPERIOR TIPS,
with OSPREYS, in Black,
White, or Cream.
Send Postal Notes with Exchange.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bourke & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
ARNOLD’S
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
OF HOREHOUND
For Coughs and Colds.
Every Dose Effective.
Will Cure when Others Fail.
For Pain in the Side.
Best for Influenza.
In Bronchitis and Loss of Voice.
Whooping Cough and Croup.
For Children, Safe and Sure.
RUPTURE
CURED
without
operation or pain,
m
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. id. Address:
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C S., ENG.,
Cor Russell & Collins Sts.,
Throw away
your Truas.
MELBOURNE,
Legal Notices.
PURSUANT to an Order of the COURT OF
CHANCERY of the County Palatine of
Lancaster made in the matter of the trusts of the
Will of Gilbert Fox Howson deceased in an action
Yorston v. Newton 1902 Letter Y No. 98 (where-
by inquiries were directed to be made by che
Registrar whether Edward Yorston son of the
said testator’s nephew Alexander Yorston de-
ceased is living or dead and if dead when he died
and whether he had any and what children and
whether such children are now living or dead and
if any of such children are dead when they re-
spectively died and whether they respectively had
any and what children and whether such last-
mentioned children are living or dead and if any
of such last mentioned children are dead when
they respectively died) the person claiming to be
the said Edward Yorston is by his Solicitor to
come in and prove his claim at the Chambers and
by the time below mentioned and in the event of
the death of the said Edward Yorston the persons
claiming to be the child or children or the child
or children of any deceased child of the said
Edward Yorston are by their Solicitors on or
before the 10th day of October 1902 to come in
and prove their claims before the Registrar of the
Manchester District of the said Court at his
Chambers situate at Duchy Chambers, 4 Clarence
Street, Manchester, England, or in default thereof
hey will be peremptorily excluded from the
enefit of the said Order.
Friday the 24th day of October 1902 at 11 o’clock
in the forenoon at the said Chambers is appointed
for hearing and adjudicating on the claims.
Any persons having any knowledge as to the
matters in question are requested to communicate
with the Plaintiffs Solicitors, Messrs. Cooper &
-ons, 94 King Street, Manchester, England.
The said Edward Yorston left Manchester in
the year 1880 for Australia and is supposed to have
lied in Melbourne in the year 1882 without issue.
Dated this 12th day of May 1902.
HUBERT WINSTANLEY, Registrar.
Cooper & Sons,
94 King Street, Mancester,
Plaintiff’s Solicitors.
The Ways of Many Waters
By E. J. BRADY. 6/3 (Post Free)from Bulletin Office
rg
df
FRINGES
•pa ’*B ‘ ps **i ‘‘•ps. ‘ p's
•jren 4{*nol««l*it
W. H. WIGZELL
jfICWILUAM STREET,
1 PLAITS ?YDNEV - TAILS
120 m. Jdhg.-gji fistS SOuls extra thick,
7s. 64.
22in., 108.64. * SSih.j'exifa thick, 12s. 6d.
24in., 15s. 6d.; 24in., extra thick, 18s. 6d.
26in,, 205.; 26in., extra thick, 259.
28in., 305.; 30in., 355.; 30in., extra thick,4os.
gd
otfr Plaits and Tails are twice as thick as,
those sold elsewhere for the same money.
WIGS MADE TO ORDER.
WAIRWORIC DUTY iRRE TO OTHER STATES.
Established 1846.
For Sale
Good quality Fuse, in cases of 500 coils, 4Jd. coil.
Roofing Felt, 75ft. x 32in., Bs. per roll.
500 tons Bolts and Nuts, up to 30in. long.
Black Galvanised Steam Pipe, up to Bin. dia.
Octagon Steel, lin. dia., £2O per ton.
Bullock, Leading, Drag, Back Chains, 2d. lb.
Good Hand Pumps, 6s. ea. ; Hames, Is. 6d. pair.
Grindstones, 12in. to 20in., 2s. each.
Harwood’s French Polish, ss. gallon.
Mixed Paints, in tins, from 31b.
Damaged (slightly) Wire Nails, 9s. cwt
Cooking Ranges, 36in. dia., 30s. each.
Black Paint, 20s. cwt.
Marine Paint and Priming, 20s. cwt
One of the Largest Stocks of Ironmongery
in Australia.
John macintosh & Sons,
Wholesale & Retail
IRONMONGERS, IMPORTERS, BUILDERS,
ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS, BLACKSMITHS, CABINET
MAKERS, and GENERAL IRONMONGERY,
307, 321, 323, 325 PITT STREET,
Sydney, N.S.W.
The WORLD-RENOWNED . . .
Professor N. R» FINSEN,
The Great Danish Scientist,
Discoverer of the Wonderful Cure for LUPUS and SKIN
DISEASES by the aid of the Sun’s Rays, has made even
a still more marvellous discovery in the
HAEM ATIN ■ ALBUMIN
TABLETS.
A Cure for Poverty of Blood, Anaemia and
Weakness of the Human System, NO MATTER
THROUGH WHAT CAUSE ARISING, and this Remedy
is now placed on this market by the manufacturers
through their representatives, and is obtainable
From all Chemists.
38. 6d. per BOX Of 70 TABLETS —12 PAYS’ SUPPLY.
■'ll »»'*“*•
M
wm j
6R^°
e«c »«'^ W U
. ft C\« eS
is a a» d ro \ds
eaW°«’ a tvd C °
CoUg \ to ua« onS '
TVV©
fg
■
FA Wonderful power is placed at your
disposal in Hypnotism—the power to control
others—to relieve disease—to make friends
—to make money—and gratify your
ambition. You may become a commanding
master of humanity. In fact, there is so much
that is wonderful to tell you about it that I have
written a book for that purpose. It has 31
illustrations.
Anyone ten be a Hypnotist It fs’merelya mitterof
knowing bow All possess the power—both men and women.
Some p-rsons exercise a light hypnotic influence unconsciously
fcodoubt you have met such people. They are the kind who
aucceed in the world with no apparent effort-
By a knowledge of Hypnotism, bad habitk, nervous diseases,
bad dispositions, sleeplessness, and other afflictions may be
cored -ofien in a single treatment Backward or ungovernable
childr/n show marvellous improvement under hypnotic
treatment at the hands of their parents or others.
1 have taught thousands of hypnotists In America* Huts,
dreds o» delighted students in Australia'already 1 reach
thtm through my book The system is very simple, k There
is no reason why you should not become as good a Hypno*
fist as 1 am. Satisfaction guaranteed.
• Send address' in full, together with three stamps.. Yon
will then receive •« The Key to HypnotUm,” posted in
a plain cover. Absolutely Free.
rnorcssoa o.'r, Barrington,
145 J Collins St., Melbourne.
OF INTEREST to MEI
DEAR SIR, —I have been cured of Weakness and De
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
dfg
.Pitt Street ( Sydney.
I'll Try IV
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capilfarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 108. 6d.
SOLK AGENTS.
Th* Result.
CRAIG & AITKEN, N.s .W. Barber’s Supply
House. 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DRUNK
ENNESS
,CUBED
Absolutely Conquered In 20 Days.
IliTSee my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free,
W. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S.. Eng..
68 Russell St., Melbourne.
RUPTURED.
Dr. W. S. Bice, the well-known New York Hernia
Specialist, sends a trial of his famous method FREE
TO ALE. Anyone can now cure themselves at
home without pain, danger, operation, or an hour’s
loss of TIME FROM WORK
At the earnest request of Britis' 1 natrons, Dr. Rice
has opened Branch Offices at 9d Stonecutter St.,
London, E.C., and to the thousa. t.o upon thousands
of ruptured people who are torturing themselves
with bad trusses, and are in momentary danger of
death from strangulation, will send free to all a
trial of his famous method that has saved so many
lives and made so many men, women, and children
well and strong and permanently cured of bad Rup-
tures, Do not be backward about writing for the
FREE TRIAL. It will cod you nothing, and will
enable you to see how easily you can cure yourseli
in a short time without losing an hour ropi work.
Dr. Rice is determined'that every suffering man or
woman shall know the wonderful truth that Rupture
can be cured, and he therefore generously sends
prepaid by post, his method absolutely free, and you
can make a trial of it. Remember that it is the
same method that Mr. Thomas Blay (who' e picture
is given below) used ; and who can deny the truth
when it is put before them in so clear a light? It
must indeed, be welcome words to the afflicted.
m
WORDS OF PRAISE FROM Mr. BLAY.
No. 5, Ripley Terrace, Luddenden Foot,
W. S. Rice. April, 6,1901.
Dear Sir, —After using your treatment for three
months I find myself cured of my Rupture, at the
age of 55. I had been ruptured for ten years.
I shall advise all people afflicted with this com-
plaint to use your treatment, as I know from
experience that it will cure permanently. You must
have a wonderful knowledge of rupture to fit one
so perfectly without seeing the rupture.
I am in good health now, something I have not
enjoyed for ten years before. You can use this
letter in any way you choose, and I hope it will
guide others to a perfect cure.—Yours truly,
T. BLAY.
There is absolutely no question about the curative
ability of this combined and perfected method. It
has stood the test of time; it has been through the fire
of critical cases ; it has come out victorious in every
curable instance. It has saved the child to a life of
independence; it has given the youth his natural
endowment of health andstrength to fight the batt e
•of life successfully; it has conquered tlie blight upon
old age and turned years of suffering into ending
days of joy and giadness. Whoever is Ruptured, oi
knows a person suffering with Rupture, should keep
in mind the fact that in eighty per cent, of all cases
there is a daily liability that before night they may
say good-bye to earthly things. Does not this fact
-influence one to pause and consider whether they
are using their best efforts in the way a wise Creator
intended they should? And if the forethought, the
research, I •and the painstaking effort of one who
nvents and studies for the relief of others is placed
in our hands, is it not our duty to read and listen
patiently,that we may take advantage of thatwhich
•ontributes to our earthly benefit ? *
CURES
COUCH
hM[EXOU* co ' JC "
“or U *
OS6O P ROWP
"stops
k COLD
WUftKt •»**■
STOPS
COLD
"'£o*a**
, hie Ifl N “ fsery '
Cask?* 10 ' 8 ’
CURES
COUGH
WONDERFUL
CURES BY
ELECTRICITY
Chronic and nervous
diseases of men and wom-
en yield to the influence'
of the electric fluid, when t
medicines fail to give re-
lief. There is no mistake
about this for we have
grateful testimony of hun-
dreds of reputable people
y*
in all parts of the world who have used Dr. Pierce's famous
American Electric Belt and proved the truthfulness of
our claims. Reader, if weak, nervous ; tired of drugging
the stomach and paying doctors' bills, write today for
“Booklet No. 2,” enclosing stamp, and you will learn of
the greatest remedy of modern times. Address, —PferCC
Electric CO., Post St., San Francisco, U. S. A., or
W. if. SOUI & CO., 160 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W.


Take
REUTER’S LITTLE PILLS.
For all LIVER complaints
The St. George’s Hospital (N.S.W.)
“ chain-letter,” which has haunted the post-offices
of all the earth for some years, has been again con-
sidered by the hospital committee —which, whilst
accepting an offer on the part of the promoter to
hand over the control of the affair, has requested
him to submit accounts in connection with its
past administration.
More Dry-Dogism.
George Reid, the Dry Dog man, has started
dragging his drought-stricken canine behind him
round Victoria. Judging by the telegraphed
report, all that is available at time of writing, of
his , fiF 8 * speech (at Ballarat), his unreliable-h
and his brassy assurance are in a state of splendid
preservation, but otherwise the Dry Dog man
seems to have deteriorated. He doesn’t appear
to have one new lie about him, and the old fictions
are flat and sorry and stale. He told his listeners
of a. time when N.S.W. had more people employed
in its factories than Victoria had, and left them to
assume that that arose through the blessings and
advantages of the Dry Dog system. He certainly
didn’t hint that the time referred to was
when N.S.W. was under Dibbs’s Protectiva
tariff, and that when G. Reid came int*
power with his partially Foreign-trade policy
he speedily altered all that. This, based
on Coghlan’s latest revised figures, is the sort
of record which would have been a very poor adver-
tisement for the imported-shoddy policy if the
speaker hadn’t changed the subject at the right
moment
Parkes-M’Millan-Bruce Smith period (about one-fourth
of N.S.W. manufactures protected; rest under Free-
trade conditions).
1891 : Victoria employed 1346 more hands than N.S.W.
Dibbs period (all N.S.W. manufactures protected).
1894 : N.S.W. employed 5502 more hands than Victoria.
Reid period (about one-seventh of N.S.W. manufactures
protected ; rest under Freetrade conditions).
1900 : Victoria employed 3428 more hands than N.S.W.
There is not the least doubt that George Reid
spoke the solemn truth when he told his Ballarat
audience that there was a time when N.S.W. was
far ahead of Victoria in manufactures. When it
got anything like equal Protection its superior
resources asserted themselves. But George
Reid changed all that. The only other matter of
importance in his Ballarat misrepresentation
seems to have been this :
Look what a ghastly thing this Protection is. Look at
New South Wales just now ! Millions of sheep, the staple
industry of Australia, slowly dying by millions because
of the barricades against the admission of the food that
would keep them alive. Yet because there is a farmer in
some little spot in Australia who cries, “ Don’t take down
that barrier, it’s a good thing for my pocket to keep then!
on,” the barricades are kept on. This is Protection in its
most repulsive form. This is where it shows its hideous
ingrained selfishness.
Yet Coghlan reckons that N.S.W. lost nearly
2,000,000 sheep in 1876 ; 5,550,000 in 1877;
13,557,000 in 1881-2-3-4; over 2,000,000 in 1886;
4,633,000 in 1888 and 1889; 10,268,000 under
Reid’s own blessed Freetrade tariff in 1897-1900.
If the present loss of “millions” of sheep is due
to the fodder duties, why did the sheep die thus by
millions when there were no fodder duties ?
Simply because, when the price of fodder, the sea-
freight and the other expenses are paid, a sheep,
on the barest allowance, would eat its own value
in fodder in a month or two. At the end
of a year it would have eaten its own value
several times, and the drought might still be
on, and nothing to show for all this outlay but a
skeleton animal that had cost about 30s. in pro-
vender, and would sell for about Is. 9d. The
pastoralist, even near to the railways, hasn’t the
money to pay for fodder except for a very short
time in very favored situations; it would swallow
the whole value of his flocks several times over in
a year. Far away from the railways, with
long haulage by dray to pay for, his flock
would eat its own value in about a fort-
night. So the sheep die just the same
with fodder duties or without them, and the
fodder yarn is an unpatriotic conspiracy of the
party which is sold, body and alleged soul, to the
absentee importing firms. After years of pat'hos
about the beggared squatter, his sudden recrudes-
cence as an immensely rich person who can afford
to buy hundreds of tons of hay and sundries every
week at several pounds a ton, and haul it perhaps 50
or 100 or 200 miles by bullock-dray (the bullocks
eating a great part of it on the road) would be
amusing if it wasn’t such a sorry reflection on the
Australian intelligence.
U-1
EYES SPEAK
Volumes at times of people’s happiness or misery.
The dull, sunken eye, with its dark circle, almost
surely speaks of ill-health. With the dull eye go
usually the sallow, sunken cheek and muddy com-
plexion, all testifying to liver and kidney disorder,
a deranged stomach, and consequent impure
blood.
Mr. David Dunne, of 396 Oxford-street, Pad-
dington, Sydney, sends us the following, wliich
is well worthy of publication:—“For a number
of years I suffered acutely from liver and kidney
troubles, suffering the most intense agony. I was
treated by several physicians for some time, but
nothing seemed to give me any permanent relief.
I was becoming despondent and melancholy, but
seeing an advertisement that Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills were especially made for that clas.-' of
disease, I determined to give them a trial, ami am
most happy to say (and shall only be too'-glad if
you will give this publicity) that I believe t’iey
have effected a complete cure. I have none of the
old symptoms, and the pains have left me entirely;
I cannot be too thankful.”
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills cleanse the
stomach, and make the blood rich and red, -nd
are a positive cure for biliousness indigest on
constipation, headaches, sallow complexion’
liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils
and blotches, and female ailments. Put up in
amber bottles, with the full name blown
thereon.*
The
Crowning
Color.
¥
'A
THE ALL-RED WHEEL . . .
THE REP BIRP BICYCLE
Staunchly constructed, perfect in running, always reliable, and sold at a price and on such terms
that all can purchase. Cash or Terms for New or Secondhand Bikes.
COOLD BICYCLE GO., 64 King Street, Sydney.
s
Absolutely Pure
Fully Matured;
703 Medals, etc.
Adelaide:
CURRIE STREET
A
Melbourne.:
COLLINS STREEI
A
Sydney:
GROSVENOR STREET
SPORTING NOTIONS.
w —_
Grand National Hurdles, Saturday, was run at
a clinking clip; time (5.48) for the 3 miles is Sisec.
speedier than Aquarius’ (’80) and Shoddy’s (’01). Opening
1-i miles was traversed in 2.53 J, next 4fur. in 59sec., and
succeeding half-miles in 58 and 57£sec. Finishing mile
occupied i.45J, and concluding 6fur. 1.27.
* * * •
Rawdon’s victory in the G.N. Hurdle justified
Tub Bulletin’s suggestion that “ punters on the first two
days of V.R.C. National meet could spare themselves a
lot of groping for dead-birds by at once making up their
minds to follow the Miller and Manifold colors in everv
event and every instance.” The Manifold stable was
represented by only one horse (Holkar) on Saturday,
whilst the Miller colors—Albert Miller’s ‘ ‘ all white ’’—went
out for three events and won two of them with Rawdon and
Tangiers, starting at 10 to 1 and 5 to 4 respectively. Rawdon
was said to be “ not quite class enough,” but somehow
the seven-year-old son of Rival and Lady Consort con-
trived to get over the three miles in 5.48, or nearly ssec.
faster than previous record time, the dry weather having
made a fast-run race almost inevitable. Colonel Shilinski,
the “ good thing ” from Ballarat, very nearly did the
trick, but the Colonel is a year younger than Mr. Miller’s
honest gelding, and in the run home the 201 b. difference
in the weights enabled the latter to win by a head. On a
muddier day ; Nansen (lOst. 61b.) might have finished first
instead of third ; but Rawdon also is a sticker, anyhow.
'•* • •
Mr. Albert Miller secured Rawdon (winner of
Saturday’s V.R.C. G.N. Hurdles) exactly 12 months ago
for 243g5. Similar luck followed him when for 75gs. he
got Tangiers and won three ’Chases at Flemington.
Rawdon was bred by Mr. W. Pile in S.A. by Rival from
Lady Consort, by Prince Consort (son of Countryman),
from Alberta, by Talk o’ the Hills, from Princess of
Prussia, by South Australian. First notable perform-
ances were his third in Onkaparinga Cup two years ago,
and a similar position in South Australian Tatts.’ Cup.
At last year’s G.N. Hurdles meet Rawdon ran unplaced in
Maiden Hurdles, won by Lowland Chief, and, during pre-
sent season, pulled up out of a place in a Jumper’s Flat
Race. His fast finish and consequent fourth in Crown
Hurdles at recent V.R.C. Coronation gathering brought
him troops of supporters for Saturday’s big thing, with the
result that, after Holkar’s mishap, Rawdon topped the
prices until M.L. nag Battleaxe ousted him. Mo. would
probably have to unload substantially, though there was
such a heap of money for others —Holkar first of all, and
Battleaxe, VVollogorang and California during the last
few days—tbat he might still have gone home a good
winner. Rawdon’s owner never previously secured the
coveted G.N. jump, though said to have an interest in
Redleap when that prad got away with the same events
of ’B9 and ’92.
* • * *
Others have shaped better than Rawdon in pre-
ceding G.N. Hurdles, and fields have been larger at times.
His load (9.7) was the softest humped, bar Dizzy’s and
Ocean’s (9.4 each) and Buzzi’s and Aquarius’ (9st. each).
Field accounted for by Rawdon totalled 17, but ’9l saw 26
line up, ’92 saw 23, ’95 and ’Ol had 22, and ’92 had 20. Heaviest
burden borne to the frcnt during the race’s history was
Don Quixote’s 1113, in ’B4. Redleap’s 11.12, in ’92, ranks
next; this was the nag who, later, got away with the
G. Steeple, beating 18 others and carrying the back-
breaker of 13.3.
• • • •
First G.N. Hurdles was contested 21 years ago,
and Martin Loughlin gathered it in with Sir Peter, a son
of Panic. Tommy Corrigan was up. Distance was made
three miles in ’BB, and Yeoman, owned by S. G. Cook,
succeeded that year. Stake rose from 500 to 1000 sovs.
in ’BB. Malua was the first to close on the increased pot.
Previous best record (5.52 J) for the race was created by
Aquarius, and, since last year, was shared in by Shoddy.
Only one mare (Emmalea) has ever appropriated this
race, and then with 11.6 up.
• * •
Shoddy, last year’s hero, ran disappointingly 0110 11
Saturday. He dropped back to the rear some distanc®
from home and finally toppled over. The actual last pas 1
the post of the remaining stragglers was the favorite’
Woologorang—another instance of the unwisdom of
backing Sydney candidates in Flemington jumping races.
There is every reason to follow the Miller-
Manifold “ system ” for the big steeplechase next Satur-
day. Anything that carries the coin of either stable will
be worth backing, and if some of the tales told about
Deingomar are half true the light-weight in question
must have a good chance, more especially if the Fleming-
ton course gets soddened during the week. On the other
hand, one would rather bet even money on, say, Holkar’s
chance of clearing all the obstacles than take 2 to 1 about
a novice like Deingomar.
* * * •
Australian-bred, six-year-old Australian Star,
by Australian Peer—Colours, annexed London Corona-
tion Cup (value, £IOO with 1000 sovs. added) at a specially
arranged “ Coronation” meet. Australian Star was bred
at Duckenfield Park (N.S.W.), and sold by Mr. A. Gollan
(in Nov., ’99) to present owner (M.L. sport, Spencer
Gollan) for 2500g5. “ The Star ” has appropriated several
English races—among them London Cup, last year
(£1664), and City and Suburban Handicaps. His trainer
(J. Hickey) for the latest success is an Australian who, at
Rowland Lodge, Epsom, looks after Mr. Gollan’s string,
as well as nags belonging to Messrs. J. G. Clarke and
H. V. Foy. Mr. Gollan is in M.L. at present on a business
trip.
• • • *
Old-time glory of the ’Oxboro Winter Handicap
has gone for ever. Years ago, fortunes in bets hinged on
the outcome, and for weeks before wagering was brisk.
This year not more than £2OO changed hands. The
Persian, an even-money favorite in town “ shops,” was
that price at barrier rise, and proved easily the best of
the four starters. He was bred on the Richmond River,
and is by St. Blaize from Phoebe, by Glorious from
Georgina Frederica (imp.). A well put-together, good-
sized nag, The Persian looks like coming on some more.
* * * *
Weights for Caulfield and Melbourne Cups and
A.J.C. Metrop., announced last week, are interesting
when looked into as a medium for getting at Victorian
and N.S.W. handicappers’ estimates of different nags.
Victorians agree with each other far more frequently
than the N-S.W. official hits it with either or both of
them. Metropolitan allotments are on a par with those
of the Cups in some instances—Sequence, Warrior 11.,
Fighting Mac, and Skein Dhu are similarly treated in
Caulfield Cup and Metrop. ; and Kinglike, Debenture,
Patronage, The Persian, and Hazel Lad have their merits
equally estimated in Melb. Cup and Metrop. Victorian
adjusters agree to an ounce concerning 30 nags, each of
whom is asked to hump the same load in both Cups; but
19 of them are at the minimum 6.7 —they couldn’t get
less. There are instances of only lib. difference, but there
are others where the margin between one man’s estimate
and the other’s run to a half stone or more.
» * * *
At Casino (N.S.W.) J.C. meeting, t’other day,
three protests materialised in connection with the Publi-
cans Purse. Two were against winnerCadmus for incorrect
weight and informal entry. . Former was dismissed and
latter upheld, and the race went to Masher, against whom
the third “ kick ” was lodged, also for informal entry, but
dismissed. Still another protest—that country prad
Aliek wasn’t qualified for the Royal Handicap—was not
entertained, and the protestant gave notice of appeal to
the A.J.C. A fitting wind-up was the “ severe” caution-
ing of the owner and rider of Radiance in the Farewell
Handicap. Nothing in Sydney ponydom has ever
equalled this for a single day’s joy.
* * * *
Spectacle of the church, supported strongly by
Mo, endeavoring to wipe the tote off the face of the
earth, will shortly be witnessed in M.L. The Infernal
Alliance is said to have its plans ripe for a swoop on Par-
liament early in the coming session, and from what is
known of the views of members it looks almost sure that
the machine will go—hut only till the next general
election. People who have had Mo first and the tote
after, or vice-versa, won’t take long making up their
minds as to which suits them and the turf generally best.
• » *
“Alone”: Pity that really fine’chaser Aloha
cannot line-up for the National. The way he beat a fair
field, including Error, at Flemington lately, with over
12st. up, made it almost certain that at the finish of the
big race most, if not all, of them would be looking at his
heels. Owned by W. Ford (finder of Ooolgardie), who
bought him as a hack for £27, his record to date makes
it look as if he can win whenever he is wanted. Leased
and ridden by the Howies, he has already proved a little
gold-mine.
♦ * * *
The chief barracker and chairman of the com-
mittee which wants to annex a strip of Albert Park,
Melbourne, for a speedway for its fast trotters, and pro-
mises to spend £SOO a year on its maintenance, is one of
the most blatant opponents of the Factories Act, and
lately told the Committee of Inquiry that the Act was
driving him out of trade. He seems to have some wealth
left.
» » * »
Most recent test was the second match of
present tour played out in fine weather, though there
was some rain on the evening of the first day. Wicket
proved bad for the Australians till after lunch, when
their remaining bats shaped well; and the first few of
the English side did better bv notching 61 for the first
wicket and 87 for the next, though subsequently they
broke down, and at the day’s close five were out for 102.
The century was up for two wickets, the third fell at 101,
and the fourth, fifth and sixth at 102, mainly through
Noble and Saunders, who seem to have been absolutely
unplayable. Remaining five put a better complexibn on
things, but the biggest individual contribution was
Jessop’s 12. The Englishmen were 49 behind on the first
innings. Australia’s opening essay differed from t’other
side’s, as seven of them had a say in the runs
against only four of the opposing team. Noble
and Trumble, who had done comparatively little
so far, distinguished themselves on this occasion.
Second batting of Australians saw Trumper operate
brilliantly, while Duff only got 1; this in contradistinc-
tion to the first innings’ display by the same two, when
Trumper’s help didn’t exceed 1 though Duff got on well.
Trumper and Hill were together, and the Crow State
rep. did nothing in run-geuLng while Trumper gathered
62 in 50min. When Gregory filled Trumper’s place he
worked cautiously, as he did in the previous partnership,
while Hill (this time) opened his shoulders out to every-
thing almost, and the two added 107, the one three-figure
partnership of the match, which also produced the only
century (Hill’s). Hopkins and Armstrong caused some
trouble, but Rhodes settled the next three—Kelly,
Trumble, and Saunders—at a cost of only 1 run more.
Britishers in their second innings were set 339 to win.
When play ended that day they had one down for 73, and
things looked promising, but the rest of the side only
added 122.
• • • •
English team selected last week differed in
personnel only through substitution of Abel and Barnes
for Ranji and Lockwood. Ranji’s illness made way
for Fry getting another chance. This was Abel’s first test
since the English pros, struck six years ago (for higher
pay in tests) with Abel as their leader, a fact which seems
to have kept the little Englishman out of all subsequent
Australia v. England battles till now. Just how he
managed to get in this time hasn’t been explained by the
cable-man, but it’s any odds on that he must have been
doing something very much out of the way in county
cricket, otherwise, in the light of his previous “ not
wanted ” position, there’d have certainly been no room
for him.
• * * •
Australians’ success in third test was brought
about mainly through fine play of Hill and Trumper, and
Noble’s 11 wickets for 103. Hill’s jump into form, after a
sequence of failures, surprised some and pleased many
who had waited for it match after match. Last season
saw Hill away beyond all other Australian bats, but in
England he dropped off considerably. Latest was Hill’s
second hundred in tests ; at Lords in ’99 he hit up 135.
To stand better than Australia England must win next
two tests—at Manchester (July 24) and the “ Oval ”
(August 11).
* • * *
Uncertainty of cricket was much emphasized by
the two run-notching failures, Noble and Trumble, doing
better than all others in Australia’s first innings. Some
immediate preceding figures of Noble’s were—3, 0,2, 5,
0, 0,1,1,1 ; also he stood out of three of the last seven
matches, and didn’t figure at all with the ball in two
more, which indicated that that cold contracted subse-
quent to the Yorkshire engagement had incapacitated
him. Trumble’s 32 not out was his first two-figure score.
Prior to that 8 stood as his .biggest compilation for any
one of five innings, the others being 0,1, 0, 0.
» • » •
Skipper Darling and wicket-keep Kelly got a
pair of specs, each in last week’s test, and, strangely
enough, Darling was “c Braund b Barnes” in both
instances. It is ominous that in the last two first-class
matches Darling has failed to score a run.
« * * •
Up to and inclusive of the third test, Trumper
topped Australians’ batting averages, with 45.29 for 24
innings, aggregating 1087 runs. Clem Hill was second-
-23 innings (once n. 0.) aggregate 624 and average 28.36.
Armstrong filled third position—2o innings (five times
n. 0.) aggregate 432 and average 28.20. In the bowling
Trumper led—37 wkts. for 304, averaging 8.21. Saunders’
figures were 42 wkts. 604 runs, averaging 14.38. Darling
(128), Trumper (101, 121, 105, 128,113), Hill (104, 119), and
Duff (182) have notched centuries to date. Against these
nine, only two have been scored by the opposition
(Braund 104 and Tyldesley 138). Finishing last week’s
engagements, the Australians had played 18 matches, of
which 10 were won, 1 lost, and 6 drawn.
•** - •
It’s a good thing for Australians to be “na-
tional" over cricket: it tends to teach them to be one
day “ national ” in all things.
* * * •
Football casualty-list for Sydney last Saturday:
One South Sydney man sustained concussion, had his
nose and a finger fractured, and was bruised freely about
the body. At Parramatta, there was a broken leg •on
Rushcutter Bay Oval, a player suffered ** serious internal
trouble ” ; and at Balmain a man had his right knee and
ankle badly hurt. Yet hundreds of people condemn
glove-contests and applaud Rugby 1 Football is more
dangerous than battle.
• • • *
Charley Bannerman, whom William Cafifyn
considered the best bat Australia had ever produced, has
accepted the post of cricket-coach at Christ’s College
Christchurch. Which means a billet for life, with care ’
* * * *
“The Australians cricketers are thoroughly
good sportsmen. They could not afford to come over for
nothing, and so they come and make what they can.
That is an honest and straightforward policy, and in-
finitely to be preferred to the home methods of providing
assistant-treasurerships and secretaryships to gentlemen
who could not otherwise afford to give their time to the
game.’’— London Truth.
•*. * *
Warwickshire-Australia match progresses as
Thk Bui,lrtin is being printed. Last year Warwickshire
finished fifth in the English county supremacy competi-
tion, winning 7 and losing 4 matches out of 16. Last
Australian team (’99) beat Warwickshire by 9 wickets.
* • • *
Thus “ A.M.8.” : “ H.P.” claims that Rug-
beians can kick. He calls Wickham, who kicked well in
Sydney one afternoon, to prove same. Also points
with admiration to the punting of certain players.
Both these facts were admitted bv me. Wickham
and others can sometimes kick from a placed ball
with brilliant success (true, more often they can’t).
As for punting, well, anyone that Providence has blessed
with a big hoof can punt, with the wind. Anyway, the
Rugby rules disallow goals from a punt. My contention
is that Rugbeians can’t or don’t drop-kick. H.P.” must
have often seen the play confined to one 25 for a whole
half (which sounds Irish) without a score being made.
The besiegers will make heroic and perhaps fruitless
efforts to score three points for a try when a successful
“ pot ” from the field would count four. The attackers
don’t “ pot.” Such a thing would not occur to a dozen
out of the whole 15, and the other three couldn’t kick a
goal from 20yds. or less. Odds are that you could not
name a Sydney player who has deliberately practised
drop-kicking for goal. Let one or two become moderately
proficient and their side will win the premiership.
• * * *
The t- "ic have taken action over the sweep-
stakes business at Sydney football matches. These
sweeps have become very popular lately. The promoter
collects 28 shilling subs, on each half of the game. The
back man on either side is omitted, and each subscriber
has a player’s name allotted to him. The holder of the
player who first scores gets 235., the sweep promoter
annexing ss. for his commission. The commission is
heavy, but the worst objection is the generally raucous
voice of the promoter, with his “ only two more wanted,
gentlemen !” disturbing the game. The S.M. who tried
the case sentenced accused to 14 days (there being no
legal provision for a fine), but the matter is to be carried
to a higher court. If the S.M.’s decision is good law,
then any lady, who openly gets up a sweep at Randwick
or Rosehill, is liable to be carted to Darlinghurst in the
gaol-van.
• * • *
Two of the crack football teams of S.A. are
respectively captained by the brothers Reedman —Jack,
the cricketer, and his twin-like brother, Syd. The
rivalry between these two captains amounts almost to
frenzy, and when their teams meet the crowd rolls up to
see a contest decided much in the way of single combat.
It is a war of chieftains. The game over, all hostility is
forgotten.
* • • *
Same two old mediocrities, Felix and Doherty,
again fought for the Australasian heavy-weight bruising
supremacy in Melbourne, Monday, in Fitzgeralds’ circus
building; 7000 people present, and mounted and foot-
police fought hard to keep thousands more out. Felix
scaled 13.3 and Doherty 12.4. From 2to 1 at the outset,
betting lengthened to 5 to 1 on the black dude as fight
progressed. Felix stood inches above Doherty and over-
lapped him in reach and length of leg; hence
Doherty was badly pummelled about the face,
while the negro was badly battered about the
body. Doherty fought coolly and effectively,
while Felix boxed and was only hurtful sometimes.
Felix was best man on points for the first nine rounds,
but slumped in the tenth. The eleventh went to the
darkey, but in the thirteenth Doherty let himself go, and,
with a terrific right on the jaw, laid Felix out, ainid
tremendous excitement. A match ’tween the winner
and Armidale (N.S.W.) pick-and-shovel man, Billy M’Call,
is now in order, and will occur if Doherty wants it. They
are about the same size, and should make a good fight.
* * * *
Vigor of black and white bruising struggle
’tween negro middleweight Ike -Stewart and heavy Aus-
tralian Artilleryman, Thompson, at Sydney Gaiety A.O.
last week, was staggering. Thompson forced things, and
Stewart responded willingly. Most thumps pulled up on
the fighters’ heads or bodies, for they fought so furiously
that guarding or evading was never thought of. Occa-
sionally they stood and slugged toe-to-toe like machines,
and a fairly big house howled fiercely. Thompson
pounded hard and often, and roughed frequently, while
Stewart fought with sterling grit, till the eighth round
saw the colored man on the floor limp and badly broken.
’Tis said that Stewart intends improving his condition a
lot and going to Tasmania for the purpose of having a cut
at the local top-notcher, James, whom the black is con-
fident of licking.
• * * *
Westralian middleweight pug., Tom Dunn, and
Sydney bruiser, “Monty” Andrews, scrapped hotly at
Sydney Golden Gate A.O. Saturday, and kept going right
through 20 fierce rounds, during which one or other
(Dunn mostly) was fought to a standstill often, and both
occasionally. A peculiarity of the thing, and evidence
that neither is a heavy hitter, was that though both
reached the vulnerable point many times—Andrews with
swinging rights and lefts in succession—not a single
knock-down or any approach thereto occurred. Andrews
shaped far the cleverer —side-stepping, “ smothering,”
and ducking well—but Dunn lasted longer, though there
wasn’t nearly the sting in his work because of lack of skill
in its direction. Towards the end Dunn’s attacks were
more effective, through Andrews’ power petering out till
he could do little or nothing in the last round but fall up
against his man or on to his knees. In the 19th Andrews
made a big effort to win right out and had Dunn sagging
and tottering. When the 20th closed the referee gave the
fight and the big end of a good “gate” to Andrews on
points; which was a correct summing-up, though a large
section of the packed house hooted dissatisfaction.
* * * •
Sometime Australian champion middleweight
pug., “ Tim ” Murphy, had another go, at ’Frisco in May,
with negro Gibbs, that was all ’rastle ; and scuffle for 20
rounds, and ended in a draw. Tim was gritty but awk-
ward, and the black blocked nine out of every ten
punches. From the eleventh round the ’Murkan was on
the fend always. Murphy, unlike his brother, “ Torpedo
Billy,” was the most overrated pug. that ever left Aus-
tralia. Now he’s finding it out.
• • • *
Cabled last week that Australian rifle-team had
been tested under Kolapore Cup conditions, and of the
possible 105, eight averaged 96 and twelve 91. Banana-
land crack, A. Fergu9on, scored 102, and four others 98
each. If Ferguson’s effort can be repeated in the match
by anyone it is almost sure to top everything. Last
year’s highest individual total was 100. The record for a
team is 768 (averaging 96 each man), and was accom-
plished three years ago. Victorians won the Cup in ’97,
aggregating 751. Last year the Englishmen made 759,
Canada filling second place with 733.
• • • •
Evidently “ ping pong ” hasn’t come to stay in
Sydney as a public craze, though it may survive as an
interesting indoor game. Gentlemen’s and ladies’
premierships and first-class handicap, recently carried
through by N.S.W. Sports Club, took the wind out of
every other promoter's sails. Big tournies now running
at Sydney Queen’s Hall, though largely entered for, have,
bar Saturday night last, been played to an empty house.
Those behind the venture will lose heavily, and several
similar projects are being quietly dropped. On Saturday
night the final of the Queen’s Hall ladies’ competition
was left to two sisters, Misses Nellie and Mary Dransfield.
The former only won the championship a week or two
before, but this time succumbed to her sister (9 games to
4) outplayed all the way.
• * * •
Thirteen year-old lad Hector Frazer (“Parvo ”),
and O. Corbett, a prominent member of Melb. Gun Club,
contested the final for that body’s £25 Challenge
Cup t’other day. Sixteen started, conditions 21
sparrows each from 25 yards rise. The boy lost three of
his first eight, but subsequently came with a sequence of
13 kills. An extra round was necessary to determine the
winner. Corbett killed and the boy missed. First-named
shot a yard inside his usual mark, while “Parvo’’was
6 yards further back than his club handicap.


Highest Class Pastrycooks
3333 33 3
33
33
33
33
33 *’■■■■
3*3 33 33 3
m n.s.ui.
Trnb food $ Tee Co, Eta.
SYDNEY.
W grade materials are un-
known in our business. - -
Everything of the very best.
We have the largest and best
appointed Bakehouse in the State, and
we invite inspection of our methods
of manufacture. Catalogue post free
on application*
L
GOOD RIGHT THROUGH.
/VjASSEy-HARRIS BICYCLES
Are reliable in every part, run easy, and always look well.
Call and Inspect our stock of these justly Famous Mounts: Cash or Terms.
Cnartiiin . Patrons of Sporting: Olubs and Officials will do well to visit
w|/vrUQg Is* our Sports Department. Every kind of Pastime catered for.
Massey-Harris Depot: 357 George Street , Sydney .
Branches—Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth and Wellington, N.Z.
Drink
Franz Josef Lager
THERE IS NOTHING BETTER.
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
BUY A
REMINGTON
7^
Double-Barrel .
Hammerless Gun
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept in stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company
Head Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £0 ios. to £is
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free
McLEAN BROS. & RICO, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OP INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER and
A PEN CARBON BOOK
makes a complete outfit with
which any
MAN,
WOMAN OR
CHILD
can write a letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy without
leaving- the slightest sign of copy-
ing on the original.
%
y//
It keeps a duplicate of bills you send out, of orders, receipts, bank checks. It leaves no vague
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original.
From its testimony there can be no appeal. It will save any house or family much money by its
indisputable record.
There is no man or woman, professional or not, who would not at some time or other find
THE PEN CARBON LETTER BOOK
For fullest particulars, price, etc., write to the sole
A True and Valued Friend.
Agents for Australasia: E. RICH & CO. LTD.,
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
Said that Queensland Govt, is negotiating
with Brisbane Tramway 00. for the sale to it of
the suburban railway system. The Philp Govern-
ment is capable of anything.
dr
WHEN BABY FRETS
AS BABIES WILL
and worries himself and mamma
by insisting upon being held, he
welcomes the rest, amusement,
and variety found in
THE COMBINED
gaby Jumper «»
Rocking Chair
Every Time it Wriggles
The Baby Giggles—and Goes to Sleep.
You can easily move it from room to
room, or any place desired, saving your-
self the trouble of holding and enter-
taining his majesty, giving you time for
other duties, and at the same time as-
suring your baby health and comfort.
Physicians endorse it.
Buy one now of your dealer,
or order direct from the Impor-
ter, who sends a picture-book
telling you all about it free.
As a Baby Combination
Jumper and Cradle, suspended
by springs, it can lie instantly
deiached and used as a Baby
Kocker. Adjustable 1 into any
position or angle.
When Baby wakes up, the
slightest movement causes the
gd
spring's to respond, acting- like the pendulum of a clock, it
sways gently and soothes the child to sleep,
THE ROCKER COY., 91 Clarence Street, Sydney.
PUBLIC SUPPLIED BY
SYDNEY— LASS KIT .ill & COMPANY,
FARM lilt & COMPANY,
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
HANNON & COMPANY.
MELBOURNE—TYE & COMPANY, Bourkb STREET
BRISBANE—FINNEY, ISLES & COMPANY.
By Special
r
Appointment
G. H. SMITH and SON,
TROPICAL HELMET
with special air-space,
in while drill , dec. and
in all colors in felt.
10/6 and 12/6
Eat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers,
302 George-st. Sydney
Bombrero Soft Felt Hats,
All Shades and Sizes.
Soft Felt Hombergs.
In all Sizes and Colors.
Straw Hats. Stetson Hats.
Polo Caps, Military and Naval
Caps, Livery Hats, Clerical Silk
Hats, Etc., Made to Order
SNARPSHOOTINg
For Sport and War.
gd
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett. ;
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W. W. CREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative).
IJ'OR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
- ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is ‘'Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,” “WB
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. IF. ELLIS.
m
m
§«
THE
[QUALITY.
PRICE,
and
WORKMANSHIP „f
Dunlop Rubber
Goods
is the best obtainable.
We can supply in any quantity and quality
Solid Rubber Vehicle Tyres
HOSE
Suction, Air-Drill, Steam, Engine,
Brewers Carden, Fire, Tanners,
, Chemical, Acid, eto.
Mining, Engineering and Sporting
Requisites.
Prices and Samples on Application.
Th) Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Go. of Aus., Ltd.,
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne; and at
150 Clarence Street, Sydney.
59 Franklin Street, Adelaide
54 Barrack Street, Perth.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
126 Lichfield
Street,
Christchurch,
N.2L
Picturesque description of a flogging in-
flicted on a prisoner in Melbourne gaol, on the
day locally celebrated as the Prince o’ “Wales”
Birthday:
Everything being in readiness, the silence was broken
by the senior chief warder announcing the number of
strokes to be given, and the next moment the flagellator
was standing on the coarse mat, to prevent his feet from
slipping, ready to perform his task. Dr. Stewart glanced
over the unfortunate fellow’s bare back, and seeing
nothing to prevent the sentence being carried out, sig-
nalled the flagellator, who was disguised in a false beard,
to proceed. Unlike many of the criminals who have
been previously flogged, Quigley had no ridges
indicative of former corporal punishment on his
skin, and naturally the first blow with the
knotted cords left nine distinct marks. The
next stroke was delivered in the opposite direction, and
the hundred squares across his body were plainly discern-
ible. The fifth stroke burst the blisters which had been
raised, and from then till the last blow was delivered the
man’s cries for relief were piteous, and could have been
heard outside the thick Walls of the corridor. The full
complement of the flogging was administered in about
five minutes, and Quigley was then released from the
triangle. Ilis attendants then placed a wet cloth over
his scored back, and accompanied him to his cell.
And this is the up-to-date cure for sex-mania.
New Zealand Loan and M.A. Co. Ltd. reports,
for week ended 5 .h July, 1902 Wool : Market dull and
lifeless, buyers willing to operate only at pricesibelow
sellers’idea of value, and, sellers being firm, result wns
no biz. Marsupial skins declined, wallabies hi. t > ltd.
each, and bears about td. Kangaroos and opossums
maintain their late position precariously. Sheepskins
brisker ; choice lots still eagerly inquired for. Demand
for hides is quiet, heavyweights 'maintaining their pr ces
with difficulty, while lights and mediums slumped Jd. to
id. Tallow slid down about 10s. per ton, but business
brisk. Sundries ruling firm. Horsehair going ahout id.
higher. Sydney transactions in wheat have been limited
to prices ranging from is. 2d. medium to Is. 4hi. prime
samples. Indeed, in the Western country, Considerable
purchases’ were made at a slight advance, on Sydney
prices, for feeding stock. Flour demand is restricted.
All quotations purely nominal from £8 17s. 6d. for
ordinary brands to £9 10s. for best City Roller. The ship-
ment of American maize which arrived a few days ago
has been stored, and local stocks are selling at from 4s.
7d. to 4s. 8d. per bushel. Another shipment of ’Murkan
corn was placed on Newcastle market, and appeared to lie
of fair quality, and suitable for feeding stock on.
G. H. Reid suggests that Lord Hopetoun
should be appointed temporary Australian High
Commissioner—a silly piece of crawlsomeness.
All that Hopetoun could do—and a great deal
more probably than he would care to do—is being
done by Earl Beauchamp now (i.e., the represen-
tation of the artistic, literary, and social life of
Australia). No English lord could be expected
by any sane man to undertake the political repre-
sentation of the Commonwealth.
The cabled report that discharged and
penniless Australian soldiers are pounding on the
door of Capetown city council, demanding food or
relief work, is about the most remarkable cohentin-
genting development up to date. If it is true it
casts a dismal sidelight on the prospects of the
country to which so many Australians are
emigrating. Here the unemployed pound on the
hospitable door of Owe’Sullivan, and he rushes
out and floats a loan. To go far away and whack
on a strange door—to leave the Pharaoh who
knows Joseph for the Pharaoh who knows not
Joseph—seems a poor exchange.
The See Government explains that it has
no money now for the erection of a suitable Public
Library for the general use of the people of
Sydney, but it is proceeding at many tens of
thousands’ expense with the erection of a library
building within the University grounds, to which
indeed the public may have a sort of access, but
whose situation is an effectual bar. The way in
which the vote on the University Library was
carried, while the question of the Public Library
was shelved, proves a certain kind of strategic
cleverness on the part of the University advocates,
but tells badly for the wakefulness of the Labor
party and democrats generally.
The recent Sydney harbor collision between
the horse-ferry, Barangaroo, and H.M.S. Royal
Arthur’s gig is a mere shadow of the Big Collision
to Come. Sydney Harbor is run after the manner
of an ordinary Chinese river. It is the Newcastle
and South Coast colliers that give a man the
horrors. Cross to Milson’s Pt. some night on one - of
the brightly-illumined ferryboats, and if you look
ahead you may see a dark, coffin-like hulk stealing
across your bow absolutely without a light save
for a bit of smudgy glass suspended from a
lamp halyard 50 or 60ft. in the air. For cold-
blooded carelessness these colliers stand alone :
the smallest wool-ship takes heed of things, the
mail-liner is a conservative gentleman who allows
no risks, and even the island schooner has some
manners ; but the collier is the coastal spieler,
the Cain, the brute beast among vessels, taking
all risks and befouling the sky. Sailing off Pinch-
gut one morning, writer saw one loaded a hundred
tons over her Plimsoll, staggering like a dray-
full of undertakers fair into the ribs of
an out-going steamer. A close scrutiny
showed that the helmsman had deserted
his post and was filling in the precious moments
by defending himself from the attacks of an in-
furiated deck-hand. The captain, with his head
half out of the companion, shouted, “Don’t scrap
in port, boys; the police-boat will get us sure ” —
and then the collier’s black nose missed the steamer
by a few yards. Through some insane harbor law
a ferry steamer, carrying six or seven hundred
passengers, has to stop in a crowded fairway to
allow the tiniest kerosene launch to pass. On
lark, blustering nights it is pathetic to see 700
citizens bailed up in mid-harbor while a providore
>r butchers’ boat crawls leisurely by. What is
needed is a mammoth centipede to crawl over the
Harbor Trust, and another to settle on the citizens
who go down the harbor in ferries.
Mr. Owe’Sullivan has had his discouraging
reply from Lord Rosebery to the letter begging
for Rhodes’ money for the “Facing the Dawn”
statue. As surmised, the Owe’S. doesn’t give tha
text of the reply to the papers.


New Sources of Revenue.
To be minister of finance in any Government,
no matter how prosperous the nation may be, is
not to hold a sinecure. To extract from the
pockets of the people, so that they shall .least feel
it, the millions necessary for carrying on the
Government of the country is a delicate task, and
the man has not yet been born who can do the
trick without creating enemies. It is not for
want of advice that finance ministers fail to give
popular satisfaction, for almost everybody is
prepared to show how additional taxation can be
more easily borne by any class than the par-
ticular one to which he himself belongs. It is,
however, a demonstrable fact that the time
which the people of a nation loose when suffering
from maladies preventible or curable would, if
applied to their ordinary pursuits, more than meet
the national expenditure.
Here is the true story of a gentleman who for
three years could hardly devote himself to busi-
ness at all, though he now looks hearty and
vigorous. Mr. Alexander Cochrane, of Ada
.Cottage, Eva-atreet, If ooranga, writes, under date
January 16th, 1902 : —“About June, 1895, I was
laid up with a severe attack of indigestion. I
thought it would soon pass away, but was sadly
mistaken. My appetite failed, my. sleep was
broken and harassed by dreams, and I would rise
in the morning feeling wearier than when I
turned in at night. I became thin, weak, and
nervous, and the little food I ate lay like lead in
my stomach, causing me great pain and distre s,
Medical treatment failed to alleviate my suffer-
ings,-and I tried a number of patent medicines
with no better result. Then, on the ’ecom-
mendation of. Mrs. Frost, of Elizabeth-street, I
began a course of Mother Sfeigel’s Curative
Syrup. I cannot say that I derived much benefit
from the first bottle, but the second wrought a
decided change for the better. I gained strength,
put on flesh rapidly, and by the time I had taken
four and a half bottles of the Syrup I was, tho-
roughly cured. It is eighteen months since I
took the last dose, and I am now feeling better
and stronger than ever I did in my life before.”’
This striking testimony to the efficacy of
Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup is vouched for by
Mr. W. Wood, of Glenferrie Road, Malvern,
Victoria, who has witnessed the benefit Mr. Coch-
rane has derived from its use; while Mr. Coch-
rane himself has kindly expressed his willing-
ness, to answer any personal inquiries with regard
to his case at his own house.*
rg
FISHER
AND
> ; 7M
COMPANY’S
99
(REGISTERED)
KILLRHEU is an Unfailing and Wonderful Remedy for Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago,
Neuralgia, and all Aches and Fains.
KILLRHEU UTTERLY CONQUERS AND KILLS H E luf ATI
£3OO were paid for the Formula of this truly Great Medicine.
DOSE
FOR ADULTS.—One tablespoonful every night in a tumblerful of hot water and white wine—such as hock.
FOR CHILDREN. —One dessertspoonful in hot water, with or without wine.
KILLRHEU
KILLRHEU
KILLRHEU
operates upon the whole human economy; not a drop of blood escapes its influence.
has an immediate effect upon the Liver and Kidneys. These important organs are cleansed and strengthened in a most effective manner.
Torpidity of Liver, Constipation, Biliousness, and Sick Headache are surely removed,
is an unfailing cure for Indigestion, Stomach Pains, and Flatulency.
DURING WINTER IT IS A PLEASANT, DELICIOUS and SOOTHING MEDICINE, INDUCING SLEEP AND COMFORT.
KILLRHEU drives Uric Acid entirely out of the system.
NONE GENUINE WITHOUT THIS—
OUR SIGNATURE:
A>
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES.
2S. 6d. per BOTTLE ; LARGE SIZE, 4s. 6d.
MANUFACTURING
PHARMACY—
-33*7 GEORGE STREET, nearly Opposite GP.O., SYDNEY.
Messrs. Fisher & Co
A THOROUGH
CURE.
Avoca-street, Rand wick, July Ist, 1902.
Dear Sirs. —Without any unnecessary words or rigmarole about my case of rheumatism, I wish to say briefly and earnestly how thankful I am for the
wonderful cure effected by the use of KILLRHEU. For many years I suffered intense agony from rheumatic pains—sleepless nights, want of appetite, and
general weakness made life a prolonged misery. All kinds of remedies were tried, including a belt, but no relief came, until I fortunately tried your
KILLRHEU. The result has been marvellous ; after taking only one bottleful every pain and ache has gone. The medicine seemed to reach the whole system,
and effected a thorough cure. I now sleep soundly, my appetite is excellent, my weight is increasing, and life’s work is a pleasure. I sincerely thank Providence
for the transformation. For the sake of other sufferers from rheumatism, I will only be too happy to reply to letters or confirm by word of mouth the great cure
effected by KILLRHEU.
Witness —George Beach.
Yours sincerely, ARTHUR ACKLIISTG.
ALL CHEMISTS, 2s ©d & 4s 6d PER BOTTLE.
Wliolesale from Messrs, Klliott Bros., The Australian Drug Co., and all Wholesale Houses.
The Inky Way.
An enquiry of much interest to pressmen is
about to be held in Sydney. The circumstances
(as alleged) are that, on the arrival of the transport
Aurania at Port Jackson, a rep. of the D.T. visited
the vessel to interview some of the officers and
men. There had been in the D.T. some very strong com-
ments on the actions of the Aurania contingent at Albany
(W.A.). The D.T. reporter, reaching the gangway at the
side, was refused permission to go on board. He sent his
card to the officer in charge, and was then again warned
off. Some military officials coming up the gangway then,
the reporter stepped on to the vessel’s deck from the
gangway, and was at once ordered under arrest, and
detained for a little while. He reported the circumstances
to the office, and the staff held a meeting, and asked that
the paper should take some steps to defend its represen-
tative. The matter was brought before the military
authorities, and it is understood that the incident will be
investigated before a military court of enquiry.
• • * *
There is no more vexatious task than the supervision
of the “ social column,” for around it are clustered scores
of people who deliberately strive to get false information
into print. To send in news of a marriage which never
took place is one trick of the female who wants to have a
scratch at “ the other cat.” So the social column is ever
a bed of thorns to the newspaper man. Most daily papers
have been forced by the feminine habit of malicious
fiction-mongering to absolutely shut down on announce-
ments of “ engagements.” One daily paper came to this
decision after a curious experience. On the strength of a
letter from the mother of the alleged bride-to-be, it pub-
lished news of the young lady’s engagement to what
mothers call a “ very eligible parti." The man dropped
in to deny the yarn. He was shown the mother’s letter
as proof of the paper's good faith. Then he went away
to Europe for a trip. The next visit was from a very
wrathful young lady, who complained that the nasty,
mean paper had been responsible for Dick breaking it all
off just as he was on the point of proposing. Mamma, it
seems, had thought that a newspaper paragraph, stating
the engagement as a fact, would be the best way of
bringing a strong probability to the point of certainty.
After its experience with an indignant man and a weep-
ing girl, that paper was “off” engagement notices for
ever afterwards.
• * • »
Melbourne Age imitates Sydney D.T.’s very successful
World’s News with a scraps weekly called Every Satur-
day. It’s a much inferior publication to the World’s
News (which, though, might be better if it tapped the
German and French and more of the American papers).
The W.N. has in Editor Todd a man who works like a
bullock, and has a good news instinct acquired by Tas-
manian and provincial as well as Sydney and Melbourne
experience. Astonishing, by the way, how many good
journalists come from Tasmania and Maoriland ; the cold
climate seems to give a man the strength that allows
vigor to survive experience. The average Australian
constitution is early wrecked by the hard life of a news-
paper-man.
* * * *
Most men think they can run a newspaper ; all parsons
are sure of it, and, as often as they can, try their hands on
“religious papers.” But who can point to even a
religious paper successfully run by a parson ? The parson
who has a real journalistic gift promptly gets a “ call ” on
to the secular press. Such sectarian papers as succeed
are those run by journalists. The R.O. Church, always to
the front in matters showing business acumen, knows
this. In one Australasian province the R.O. organ used
to be run by a professed atheist—an able man who had
gone round delivering most aggressive freethought
orations. The bishop whose organ it was explained that
he didn’t need the man to go to the church so long as he
ably supported the church. If Pastor Dill-Macky knew
how to go about trying to shove the Pope out into
the wet he would advertise for a journalistic editor for his
Watchman, “ R.o. preferred.”
* * « *
Australian pressmen hear a lot of talk about the golden
opportunities for journalists in England. Most of it is
flam. In England the distinction between the editorial
and reporting and sub-editing branches is very great. A
man who can write good special articles and editorials
may do very well if he gets an opening. The ruck, re-
porters who are merely shorthand men, sub-editors and
so on, are miserably paid on all except a few of the chief
papers. It is not an uncommon thing in England for a
man to work 16 hours a day as a journalist for £1 or 30s.
a week.
* • * *
As cabled : “ Smith, bowled Brown, 80.” As printed
in the daily papers: “Smith, who had batted
with that conspicuous dash and freedom, which
have so often caused dismay and consternation
to opposing bowlers struggling for pride of place
in the trundling averages, and who had never given a
solitary chance throughout his long and most useful
innings, was at length beaten by one of Brown’s charac-
teristically deceptive deliveries, rather below medium
pace, which curled in slightly from leg, and just removed
the bails. This disaster did not occur until the retiring
batsman had placed a total of 80 runs to his credit, and
was thus within a score of attaining the coveted century.
On returning to the pavilion Smith received a well-
merited ovation.”
• * * *
A recent Tuesday the advts. in the “ big dailies ”
totalled in cols. :— Arous 36, Acre 35, S.M. Herald 32,
Syd. D.T. 21. On Saturday the Age led with 110, Argus
102, S.M. Herald 88, Syd. D.T. 68. These figures seem to
indicate that Melbourne is still the press capital of
Australia.
• * » *
“ F.M.” : The Australian Cable Trust was the idea of
Gresley Lukin. Lukin, before starting for Maoriland,
made a big effort to get up the combine with the hope of
drawing a big screw as its boss. The various proprietaries
listened to all his proposals and declined. But all the
same his idea has been now adopted without acknow-
ledgment.
* * * *
One of the best old Argus stories is of the lashing-out
of editor Rsed and its consequences. “ The Govt, of Sir
Henry Barkly,” wrote this gentleman, “ like the peace of
God, passes all understanding.” Old man Mackinnon
gave pause when he read this, and sought out a new
editor, a holy man, to bring things back to sobriety. The
holy man, his first leader set up, rang for Hugh George,
at that time Argus printer, and bade him read. The first
line ran : “ The policy of the Argus will henceforth be
dictated from the Book.” When George looked up in-
quiringly the editor observed : “ I wanted to ask you,
Mr. George, if you couldn’t print ‘the Book’ in red;”
George couldn’t, nor could he say what he wanted to say
either, till he got outside the door.
* » * *
David Syme's new snippet weekly has been set going
specially to provide Geoifrey, the old man’s son, with a
more congenial job than that of Age chief of staff, one of
the most irksome billets in Australian presswork. But
surely it is time that a newspaper proprietor of avowedly
Protectionist principles set the example of starting a
weekly which does something more than merely crib its
stuff from all round. Why nob give the Australian
writer a chance ?
* * * *
The St. George’s Advocate (Sydney) in its Coronation
number reports a local parson as taking for his text,
“Fear God and humor the King.” Further on the printer
repeats himself, “ We are to humor the King.” Which
would be worthy of the St. Michael and St. George’s
Advocate.
• * * •
Hobart Mercury, which has lately altered the form and
size of itself to fit its new machinery, only progresses in
the mechanical line. In the first issue in new form it
printed a leader dealing with the utter impossibility of
Socialism and of the Labor party, showing clearly that it
is still under the impression that Robert Owen is the
leader of the Labor party, and that it is still unable to
distinguish between Oommunism, Socialism, and Anarch-
ism. Editor Nicholls of the Mercury has been in charge
a countless number of years, writing a leader every day,
every week of the year, and voicing in a dim grey voice
the conservatism of 1875. He is said to have been a school
or playmate of George Meredith’s, and to marvel greatly
at the novelist’s success, “as he was a terribly dull
youngster.” Also stated that Mr. Nicholls was the origi-
nator of “no liability” in mining companies. A con-
scientious and able journalist, the old man was dis-
appointed at Ballarat in a newspaper venture,and has
cherished a bitter hatred of Victoria and Democracy ever
since. When the Mercury came down to a penny in
price (which it only did after S.M. Herald had surren-
dered to popular prices), Editor Nicholls aged visibly he
looked upon the change as the first move towards
Demagogueism and Destruction.
* * • *
Specimen of hiccupy English from Sydney Watchman :
We have decided to appoint one Agent (Lady referred)
to every Church where “ The Watchpan ” is welcomed.
Her duties will be to mrrespond with the Editor, sending
notices of coeting, and other business connected with
the meurch, etc., and also to canvass for subscribers
Ohthis paper. Remuneration of 20 per cent, will be
allowed for all advertisements and 25 per cent, for all
subscriptions. For further particulars applications should
be adddressed to
REV. DR. DILL MACKY.
The parson is always cheerfully ready to edit a paper on
the smallest provocation.
Both in small arms and big guns Australia gets
the British cast-offs, so ours are third-rate
arms. The British army discarded the S lider
rifle for the Martini-Henry ; Australia got the
Snider. Then the British Govt, discarded the
M.-H. in favor of the Lee-Metford ; Australia
took the M.-H. Then the war broke out, and
Australia decided she would have magazine rifles,
and some of the States were partially armed with
the Lee-Metford rifle. Now the British army is
to have anew rifle, somewhat on the Mauser prin-
ciple. And so the old game goes on, and will go
on till Australia wakes up. What Australia
should do is to make her own small arm' and
ammunition, and test all the newest patents, and
adopt the best, as the Yanks did years a to.
Among the, first rifles rejected at that trial \v.is
the Lee-Metford.
♦ . ...
“T.Y.K.” : A few points for Archbishop Kelly,
his aiders and abettors
1. The stratification of Australian society into fix and
classes means sure death to the Commonwealth and t e
future hopes of democracy.
2. The public school (State secular school if you like)
destroys caste, makes democrats, annihilates the domina-
tion of the few.
3. The spirit of democracy respects all rights f
parents as sacred—except the right to deprive a oh Id of
a good education ; it never compels a parent to send a
child to the public school, though it might reasonably.do
so in the interests of self-preservation. Every parent
should be left free in the choice of a school for his
children ; but the State should not be compelled to main-
tain sectarian schools ani secular schools.
4. The opponents of the State School are those who
were born and bred outside of the atmosphere of Liberty,
who have had environment and traditions that compel
them to believe as they do. Their education lias been re-
ceived in surroundings entirely opposed to Liberty.
5. The purpose of the sectarian school upholders is no
to teach religion, but to preserve the integrity of church
power, by isolation and consequent maintenance of dis-
tinct classes.
6. Let us welcome all religions. Let us freely accord
to all belieyers the right to worship God as they please,
and disbelievers to deny his existence —but we dare not,
we must not, allow the methods of any church to ruin all
we hold dear.
7. Better one grand irreligion than the many hatred-
ibreeding religious castes.
A MAMMOTH WORK.
Have you ever stopped to think what the great
“ Encyclopaedia Britannica ” really is ? This will
give you some idea. It contains : 21,506 pages,
an average of 854 pages per volume. 16,404
articles, averaging 1| pages each. 3399 articles
written and signed by specialists, or 142 per
volume. 16,255 pages written by special con-
tributors, forming four-fifths of the entire work.
338 full page engraved plates, containing over 900
separate illustrations. 671 maps and plans, in-
cluding 237 coloured maps. 9092 illustrations,
exclusive of maps and plans. Through the Daily
Mail you can secure this splendid library for your
own home by an investment of only 6d. a day. A
first payment of ss. brings you the books.


encyclopuwa
BRITANNIC*
s
VOI.. 16
Hen-MOS
"iiitm toltiO"
5/-
Brings
You
the
25 Vols.
S 8
encyclomw
BRITANWCA
vow. •«
MBN-MOS
"IKTH •PlTlO*'
THE BOOK THAT TELES YOU EVERYTHING 1 .
EVERYTHING ABOUT EVERYTHING;
POR EVERYBODY.
TZECmi
“ENCYCLOPEDIA
NINTH AND
LATEST EDITION
BRITANNICA,
(“The Times ” Reprint),
25 VOLS.
cNCYCLOPfW
6RITANHICA
voi-.ie
mbn-mos
"ixth «Q|ttO*
12/-
a Month
Pays
for the
Vols.
encyclopedia
BRITANNIC*
vow- •«
hbn-mos
*I»TH »OltlON
THE “DAILY MAIL” OFFER
HAVE you really grasped the extraordinary terms upon which this great work
is offered to you by the “ DAILY MAIL ” ?
Upon the receipt of only five shillings with an Order Form (see below), the
work is sent to you at once—2s Volumes, with their 22,000 large octavo pages, 338 full-
page plates, 671 Maps and Plans, and more than 9000 other illustrations, many of them in
colours.
When the work is in your own home, accessible to your entire family, and perhaps the
most potent factor in their mental training, you continue to pay for it by leisurely instal-
ments of twelve shillings monthly—i.e., at the rate of less than sixpence a day.
. You receive the work first and pay for it afterwards. It furnishes your home with
the most beautiful of all furniture—a collection of the best of books, with the best of
binding and the best of printing.
It is a constant education to your perceptions of what is fit and beautiful, and to those
of your entire family, and it supplies daily information to the thousand questions that
daily arise with regard to the most important affairs of life.
The “ less than sixpence a day ” which constitutes your payment is scarcely en ° u gh
to remind you daily of the priceless treasures that have been opened up to you ; and the
period of only a few months during which your payments continue are no more than will
serve to fix upon you and upon your household the habit of daily communion wi.li the
best wisdom and learning of the world.
And, finally—what is perhaps the strongest feature of our offer—the total sum of
your payment is less than half the price charged by the Publishers, Messrs. A. and O.
Black.
Free delivery as far as Sydney.
■1
mm
SD2S
[PEW®E
SDSS
IPEWCIS
SD2S
3DSS
m
■ -V !v;\v V : '
! ■ .
v •
SUCCESS OF THE BOOK.
The “ Encyclopaedia Britannica ” contains the best knowledge of the best minds of this generation. Many of the articles that compose it have been printed in
the leading reviews, and not less than fifty-two of them have been used for text-books in leading institutions of learning. A realisation of the character of the work is
one of the marks of a man of education who has the habit of informing himself widely ; and many of those who have this habit do not, for some reason or other, possess
the “ Encyclopaedia Britannica.” Thirty-five thousand sets of The Times Reprint have been sold, and still the sale continues at the same pace. But there are many who
have never followed the habit of self-training—the habit which James Russell Lowell describes as “the best part of a liberal education.” It is with the purpose of
reaching these that the “ DAILY MAIL” is now making its offer. Here it is—the most remarkable offer ever made in the publishing world, as the “ Encyclopedia
Britannica” is the most remarkable work of its kind in any language. The time is limited, however, and you should act promptly.
N. B.
EVERY SUBSCRIBER TO
THE “ENCYCLOPAEDIA
BRITANNICA” WILL RECEIVE WITH-
OUT COST AN EXTRA (26th) VOLUME
OF OVER 230 PAGES, GIVING HUN-
DREDS OF SUGGESTIONS FOR
COURSES OF READING UPON ALMOST
EVERY IMAGINABLE TOPTC, MAKING
THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA AVAILABLE FOR
EVERY MEMBER OF THE FAMILY
WHO CAN READ.
W*~This Enquiry Form, or a Post Card,
asking for full details will meet with
immediate attention.
Please address to the “ ENCYCLO-
PEDIA” DEPARTMENT the “DAILY
MAIL,” P.O. Box 1612, Sydney, N.S.W.
ENQUIRY FORM.
Please send me, post free, the Illustrated
Prospectus of the “Encyclopaedia Britan-
nica,” order form and full details of the
new Daily Mail 5/- offer.
Name.
Address
[Bul., C.C. 46.]
zSSZiiLA,'
*
o
<<
<0
V
0
'%’vrT^
MONTHLY PAYMENTS—ORDER FORM-
The Subscriber should fill in and cut out this form and send it, with 51— (or cheque in full), to address given below.
Cheques to be drawn to the order of the BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
To The Manager,
The “Daily Mail,”
New South Wales Office,
Mutual Life of New York Building,
P.O. Box 1612, Sydney.
Monthly payments to be made to the P-ANK OF NEW SOUTH
WALES. Only the first payment of ss. need he sent to the “Daily
Mail.” Subsequent payments to be made to the Bank of New South
Wales, Sydney, or any of its Branches.
1902.
Prices under Cash Plan of
Subscription given below.
Please send The Encyclopaedia Beitannica, 25 Yols. (9th Edition) at the prices named below.
I enclose 5/-, and I agree to complete my purchase of the work as follows :
For the Cioth Bindings
For the Half Morocco
For the Three-quarter Levant
For the Full Morocco
Thirty further payments of 12/- per month.
liqj /
+9/ “ »
j> » >) 18/
» » 22/-
Strike out three of
these lines.
The first of these monthly payments to be made upon the delivery of the complete 25 volumes, and the succeeding payments on the corres-
Eonding day of each month following. Until such payments are complete I engage that the volumes, not being my property, shall not
e disposed of by sale or otherwise. I further agree that if, owing to unforeseen circumstances, of which you shall be the judge, the
volumes cannot be delivered, the return of the deposit of Five Shillings to me shall cancel til's agreement.
Strike out adjoining 'j
paragraph if Bookcase 5-
not desired. OS' J
Please also send a Revolving Bookcase, for which I agree to make (after the payments for the Books have been
completed) further monthly payments of the same amount until I shall have paid 60 Shillings for the
Bookcase.
r Bui.
L C C. 46.
]
(Signed) _ _______
(A ddress)_ ___ __ ' (Occupation)
Please Address the package to . ... ’
Carriage free as far as Sydney. Beyond Sydney carriage paid by subscriber. The case containing the 25 vols. weighs about 210 lbs. Cost of
carriage may be learned upon application f o local Rii’way and Steamship Agencies. The Bookcase weighs 84 lbs.
CASH SUBSCRIPTIONS PRICES.
The prices have been fixed at the lowest possible point for the benefit of those who prefer to make Monthly payments. A discount averaging
10 per cent, on the Monthly payment prices is allowed on subscriptions accompanied by cash in full. Those who prefer to pay cash in advance
should therefore remit as follows Cloth, .£l7; Half Morocco, <£22 ; Three-quarter Levant, £24; Full Morocco, <£29. If Bookcase is
desired, £3 additional should be remitted. _ i.
THESE PRICES APPLY EXCLUSIVELY TO SUBSCRIPTIONS RECEIVED NOW IN RESPONSE TO THE PRESENT OFFER.
BOOKS ON VlEW.—Specimen Volumes may be examined, and Orders booked at
NICHOLSON and CO.’S Mus’c Warehouse, George-street, Sydney.


sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
08 of this issue.*
Prize sample of Coronation eloquence—
from the lips of one Wines, correspondent of
Woodford (near Warrnambool, Vic.) School-
board :
King Edward is now Sovereign over a continent, 100
500 promontories, 100 lakes, 2000 rivers, and
10,000 islands. He waves his hand and 900,000 warriors
march to battle to conquer or die ; he bends his head
and at the signal 1000 ships of war and 100,000
sailors perform his bidding on the ocean. He walks upon
the earth, and 30,000,000 human beings feel the least
pressure of his foot. The Assyrian Empire was not so
populous. The Persian Empire was not so powerful. The
Carthaginian Empire was not so much dreaded. The
bpanish Empire was not so widely diffused. The Roman
Empire was weak in comparison, and Greece was a small
village. (Cheers.)
Of course, Wines’figures are all askew. As an Aus-
tralian, The Bulletin feels humiliated at the
100 lakes; ” there are as many as that in Vic-
tona alone. The thirty million human beings
should be about 400,000,000, which is an especially
bad break.
One H. Hunter, writing to Sydney Daily
Telegraph to complain that N.S.W. State Labor
Board will not register him because he’s under 21,
mentions incidentally that he “is sft. llin. high
and can lift 4to scwt.” And what, he asks, is to
become of his children until they are 21 ? Work
should certainly be found by somebody for H.
Hunter. He’s the sort of chap the State stands
in need of. A youth who, at 20 years of age, can
shift a quarter-ton and is canny enough to specu-
late upon the future of his possible progeny,
presents a truly remarkable combination of thews
and thrift.
“Burglar Bill”: lie the abolition of the
iniquitous dark-cell punishment in, N.S.W.
prisons: The former “ darks ” are now used as
light-punishment cells, but, although light pene-
trates the thick glass let into the window-aperture,
the ventilation is no better. With the window
stopped up and the door locked, a few small
ventilators give a very inadequate air-supply.
The stamp-collecting crank is in for a busy
time shortly; what with the British alterations,
the advent of the over-sea penny post, and the
inevitable Commonwealth issue. N.B. —If Fede-
ral Treasurer Turner wants to make a haul why
not print limited issues and then suddenly corner
the market and make a fresh imprint ? There’s
thousands in it.
Extract from a Dowie-sermon report in our dear
old Sydney friend, Parson and Faith-healer
Dowie’s Chicago paper :
PEOPLE DO NOT PERISH BY THE BREATH OF
GOD, BUT BY THEIR OWN FOLLY AND SIN.
They perish, thousands and tens of thousands in this
country, because they might breathe the sweet, pure air
of Heaven, but they choose to breathe the stinking air of
nicotine smoke all the time.
You stinkpots 1
You tobacco fiends 1
You dirty dogs!
Jfon may call yourselves Ohristians, but you smell and
'stink like devils.
Ugh ! You dirty dogs ! Have you thought of what you
create by your filthy vice of using tobacco ?
You create cancer, and amaurosis, and paralysis,
ulcerations of the bowels and stomach, shattering your
nerves, sending down your polluted blood to the genera-
tions to come!
You dirty dogs, repent! Ugh 1
That is the way to talk to you. You have been too long
tolerated.
You do not perish by the breath of God. You do not
give God a chance. God sends you nice, fresh air, and
you go away and stink it every step you take. You walk
around all day at the end of a cigar. I take no stock in
you, you stiijkpots.
You may he Ohristians, but you cannot blame me if I
say you stink, because you know you do—(laughter)—
especially if you take beer and brandy, too.
When a man has been taking beer and brandy, and
smoking tobacco for ten or twenty years, is it not fair to
say, as Martha did concerning Lazarus, “Lord, by this
time he stinketh ? ”
Voices: “Yes.”
General Overseer: “Ugh.! There are a great many
stinking ministers, too. 1 They stink 1
A. J. BARNES,
EDJUDIWIA,
Send Full Postal Address to
MANAGER, Bulletin.
Amusements.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, R. Stewart. Treas., E. J. Tait.
EVERY EVENING, the Most Delightful of all the
Gilbert and Sullivan Operas,
I O L A. KT T H E,
OR, THE PEER AND THE PERI,
Followed at 10.15 by Gilbert and Sullivan’s famous
TRIAL BY JURY.
Prices as Usual. 1£& Box Plan at Allan’s.
JE A TNT GERARD 3T.
THE GREATEST LIVING VIOLONCELLIST.
Direction of A. H. CANBY.
MISS ELECTA GIFFORD, SOPRANO.
GOOTFRIED GALSTON, PIANIST.
Melbourne TOWN HALL, Commences 10th JULY.
Sydney „ „ 24th JULY.
Brisbane „ „ sth AUGUST.
JOHN H. TAIT, Manager.
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT STARR-BOWKETT
BUILDING SOCIETY.
THE LEADING MUTUAL LOAN SOCIETY IN VICTORIA.
REGISTERED OFFICE, 237 COLLINS-STREET, MELBOURNE.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS :
J. J. LONG MORE, Esq,, Malvern (Chairman).
WALTER WELCH, Esq., Fitzroy (Vice-Chairman).
J. MACPHERSON, Esq.,-M.A., South Yarra.
T. E. KEMPS'IER, Esq,, Windsor.
W. H. FIELDING, Esq., Yarraville.
A. E. JONNES, Esq., South Yarra.
BANKERS :
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED, Melbourne.
SOLICITORS :
JAMES HALL, Esq. |
AUDITORS :
H. W. HUNT, Esq.,
R. H. SHACKELL, Esq., F.I.A.V.
VALUERS :
COLES AND COLES.
H. G. M'CUTCHEON, Esq., A.I.A.V.
ARCHITECT :
J. V. T. WARD, Esq., Collins-street.
SECRETARY :
E. W. CAREY.
ELEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT.
The Board of Directors have pleasure in presenting herewith to the shareholders the Eleventh Annual Balance-
sheet and Profit and Loss Account for the year ending the 22nd April, 1902.
The sum of £4215 has been advanced at interest, the total premium amounting to £968 7s. 2d.
During the last eleven financial years the society has actually advanced to its members in loans upon freehold
property, free of interest, the sum of £46,054, and in sale loans bearing interest the sum of £36,099 10s. a total of
£82,153 10s. The foreclosed property in possession of the society when the accounts were closed amounted to onlv
£248 3s. J
The Undivided profit to the credit of Profit and Loss Account carried forward this year is £3089125. Bd. and the
interest on loans—by way of premiums—remaining for future collection on currant loans amounts to £2317 9s. 3d.
The net profit for this year, £419 11s. 4d. shows an increase over the net profit for last year of £221 11s. 3d. The
management expenses have been decreased by £132 19s. 7d. without the efficient control of the affairs of the society
being in any way affected. The very successful promotion of the second society will result in a still further
reduction of management expenses during the ensuing year.
In conclusion the directors feel justified in congratulating the shareholders upon the condition of the affairs of
the society.
J. J. LONGMORE, Chairman of the Board of Management.
E. W. CAREY, Secretary.
Detmold Chambers, 237 Collins-street, Melbourne, 12th June, 1902.
FOR THE ELEVENTH FINANCIAL YEAR
{BALANCE-SHEET}
[ENDING 22nd APRIL, 1902.
LIABILITIES.
To Capital—
Amount paid in money standing to
credit of members on contributing
shares £36,721 1 2
„ Sundry creditors 306 11 4
„ Withdrawing shares 867 18 0
„ Suspense account 8 9 10
~ Provision for possible loss on re-sale of
foreclosed properties .. .. .. 82 19 10
~ Balance to credit of profit and loss
account ... .. 3,089 12 8
£41,076 12 10
ASSETS.
By money on mortgage—
„ Amount due on loans not
bearing interest .. . £19,112 811
~ Amount due on loans
bearing interest .. .. 16,452 0 9
~ Foreclosed properties—
Resold 3,243 6 4
~ Foreclosed properties—
Book values .. .. 248 3 0
Small loans on shares
Law, survey, and architects’ fees, and
other sundry debtors
Fire insurance premiums owing by
borrowers
Special charge on United Mutual
Society’s shares ..
Office furniture and
effects £95 19 1
Less 15 per cent, depre-
ciation 14 8 0
Account books and stationery
Suspense account
Cash at bank .. .. £5B 0 1
Cash in hand, since
banked 187 6 9
Petty cash in hand .. 2 17 6
£39,055 19 0
948 1 5
365 12 4
126 12 7
215 6 8
81 11 1
27 14 1
7 11 4
248 4 4
£41,076 12 10
AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE.
We hereby cerfcif} 7 that we have examined the books and accounts of the society for the year ended 22nd April
1902 ; and that, as far as we are in a position to form an opinion, the balance-sheet and accounts have been drawn up
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts, and present a correct view of the affairs of the society at
that date. We further certify that we have not observed nor become acquainted during the audit with any breach
of the Companies Acts committed by the society, or any director, secretary, employee, auditor, or shareholder
thereof; and that all our requisitions as auditors, including those in regard to the private balance-sheet, have been
compiled with.
10th June, 1902.
H. G. M'OUTCHEON, A.I.A.V.
R. H. SHACKELL, F.I.A.Y.
Licensed
Auditors.
Amusements.
■pH EAT RE ROYAL, BYDN E Y.
Under the Direction of Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE.
A DECIDED DRAMATIC TRIUMPH of
GEORGE MUSCROVE’S
NEW ENGLISH DRAMATIC COMPANY-
FAREWELL PERFORMANCES of
MISS NELLIE STEWART,
in the Most Charming Comedy of the Century,
Sweet Nell of Old PrGry.
Every Evening at 8. Matinees, Wed., 2 p.m.
THOS. P. HUDSON.
f H E AT R E ROYAL, SYDNEY.
■ Lessee ... .. ... Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Under the Direction of .. Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative .. .. Mr. Allan Hamilton.
SATURDAY, 19th JULY,
THE BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY.
First Production in Svdney of
WHEN WE WERE TWENTY-ONE,
a Play in Four Acts, by H. V. Esmond.
OS' ; MATINEE EVERY THURSDAY, at 2. ia
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
I YCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■■ Lessee Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, BLAND HOLT’S
Great Attraction,
THE (SREAT RUBY.
POPULAR PRICES —35,, 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee .. .. MAUD WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO PERFORMANCES
of the Ever-Popular
WOODS- WILLIAMSON COMPANY
in the Beautiful, Spectacular Instantaneous Triumph,
BARABBAS,
The Most Remarkable Play of the Age.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 12, HANDS ACROSS THE SEA.
POPULAR PRICES—3s., 25., and One Shilling.
DALACE THEATRE, S YD NEY
r Lessees .. .. Messrs. LEE and RIAL.
Sub-Lessee .. Mr. FRANK THORNTON.
Representative, Mr. Mayne. Agent, Mr. H. P. Lyons.
} TO-NJGHT, the LAST NIGHT BUT SEVEN of
Mr. FRANK THORNTON and his Specially-Selected
LONDON COMEDY COMPANY,
including Messrs. Joseph Wilson, Alexander Bradley,
Galwey Herbert, Frank Wilson, John Denton, Mesdames
Vera Fordyce, Phoebe Mercer, Leonie Norbury, Katie Lee.
First Production in Australia of the Funniest Farce-
Comedy of the Day, written by J. H. Darnley, entitled,
FACING THE MUSIC.
As played at the Strand Theatre, London, with enormous
success, for over 300 nights.
Preceded at 8 o’clock by the Musical Farce, A TEST MATCH
by Bower and Fitzgibbo'n. Music by Guy Jones.
PRICES—Ss., 35., and One Shilling. \ Box Plan on
view'at Elvy’s.
■J" OW N HALL, k SYD N E Y.
/ Under the Direction of Henry 0. Fortey.
DANI
FAREWELL
CONCERTS.
“ We unhesitatingly pronounce him a great singer,
who is at this moment among, the three or four best lyric
tenors of Europe.”— S.M. Herald, July 7.
THIRD CONCERT, SATURDAY, JULY 12.
FOURTH and LAST, TUESDAY, JULY 15.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Prices—ss., 35., 25., and Is.
fy|AX SCHLUTER. MAX SCHLUTER.
Centenary Hall, York Street.
MONDAY, 14th JULY.
•flfc, A*
Under the patronage of his Excellency the Governor and
Lady Rawson, the Mayor and Mayoress, the French
Consul-General, the German Consul-General and Mrs.
Von Buri, and the Danish Consul-General and Mrs.
Boesen.
GRAND CONCERT
by the Danish Violin Virtuoso,
MIA.X SCHLTTTER,
friend and favorite pupil of the great Joachim, who
describes him as “ a fine artist and a dashing player.”
Assisted by the great Australian Soprano, Mrs. GILBERT
WILSON, Mr. LAURANOE PHILLIP (Piano), and
and Mr. J. E. SYKES (Accompanist).
Followed by a Grand Matinee on Wednesday, 16th July.
Prices—4s., 25., and Is. Box Plan now open at Paling’s.
MUSGROVE’S VAUDEVILLE CO.,
for JULY, are at Woollongong, 10th ; Lithgow,
12th and 14th ; Bathurst, 15th and 16th ; Orange, 17th
and 18th ; Parkes, 19th and 21st; Forbes, 22nd and 23rd ;
Blayney, 24th ; Katoomba, 25th, &c., &e.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mb. Harry Rickards
SATURDAY, JULY 12, First Appearance of
Mr. and Mrs. TOM NAWN.
(7) FLORENZ COMPANY (7)
BARNEY FAGAN and HENRIETTA BYRON, TOM
WOOTTWELL, RAY JONES, Prof. FRED. HARCOURT,
Mr. E. SULLIVAN, MAGGIE FRASER, WILLIAMS
QUARTETTE, BABY PARKES.
Prices—2s. 6d., 25., Is. 6d., Is. & 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
Matinees Wednesdays and Saturdays.
RICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUS:,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p m
THE JACKSON FAMILY.
MR. and MRS. SIDNEY DREW.
HARRIS and WALTERS. PROF. MACGAN I,
LULU ZESCH. DORA TAYLOR. ERNEST BUNKMANN.
THE WILTON BROS.,
The Greatest Horizontal Bar Act Extant.
Prices—2s. 6d., 25., Is., and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
1 Lessee Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson
Bus. Manager, James Hend.v. Treas., Julius Grai
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, headed bv Miss EUGENIE DUGGA
FRIDAY, JULY 11, LAST NIGHT of MY JACK
SAT., JULY 12, First Time in Melbourne, the Lat
Surrey Sensational Success,
THE 10.30 DOWN EXPRESS.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE^
• Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. George Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING,
The Phenomenal Operatic Success of England & America
A CHINESE HONEYMOON,
Now Exceeding its 300th Performance at the Strand
Theatre, London.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Wednesday Matinees.
At Poverty Point.
Hril J 'i?'”‘ : in o it J ' y r, in pAn I !? ifch f er Sla P° ffsW nor Marshall-
*? azon ’ besides being the most active of the three is
also the most graceful. Conducting Sydney Philharmonic
for instance, he lifts orchestra and chores irreSblv’
and even the magnetic stamp of his left foot when he
wants to work his forces up to a point of consuming ra<m
or vociferous gaiety has poetry in it. Hazon conducts as
though he had eternal forces and the option of provoking
chaos at his command ; Slapoffslci is like a hod-carrier in
a !™, r . r y fc ° ® nlsh . b>s job ; Marshall-Hall like a tired
Mephistopheles with the liver-complaint.
A^ °- Williamson as president of the Distressed
1 1 well propose an adoption of the
rule lately established in London for the assistance of the
Actors Benevolent Fund. The proceeds of all theatrical
performances given by prof, actors for the benefit of
outside chanties are made subject to a 10 per cent, tax
for the Actors Ben. Fnnd. This is a fair thing The
average mummer, and especially the better-paid article,
doesn t jump at every opportunity of giving his services
to a charity matinee cause. There’s no honor and glory
for the people who are merely playing their ordinary
parts in a 1-act extract from their ordinary show. Managers
probably lose money by thus" obliging 'the promoters of
hospital matinees, and so forth. AlO per cent, charge
on the takings, or net profits, is not a quid pro quo but
it s a florin in the quid pro “ pro,” and it amounts to co-
operation.
“ Hamer” : The average audience is too much guided
by the performers in the matter of laughter and ap-
plause, the mummer giving the cue by an expectant
pause. Laughs are frequently begun, but checked when
the performer’s continuance shows that the break the
audience took for an invitation was merely accidental.
Rehearsing recently, our stage manager said: “Now
put more spirit in that— * Sure, Oi can hardly stand up
widout failin’ down.’ That’s the style ! Now, that’s a
laugh from the audience.” And the laugh came every
tune. Have known an actor pause 30sec. for his accus-
tomed appreciation, and then get it.
“ E.F.” : Re “ Melb.’s ” par. (B. 5/7/’O2), he forgets that
Amy uastles was not, in the first instance, brought out
by Father Robinson. The “ discovery ”of Amy Castles
was by Mrs. Doubleday, and the first enthusiastic trum-
peting of that Discovery was by Mrs. D.’s numerous
friends and sympathisers, who did it mostly for the sake
of the estimable widow. Miss Castles was discovered as
a “ dramatic soprano ” —nothing less ; boomed as a dra-
matic soprano, and paragraphed as a dramatic soprano
before ever she had made a public appearance in Mel-
bourne, up to. which time she had been open to sing, and
actually did sing, in Bendigo, for a remuneration so small
as not to.be worth mentioning. Father Robinson clearly
had nothing to do with the foundation of her fortune. Mrs.
Doubleday created the boom. An experienced business-
woman would have bound Amy Castles to her by contract.
Mrs. Doubleday got only two concerts out of Amy Castles,
for which she paid the singer far in excess of the price for
which she had contracted to sing. Then was the Dis-
covery drawn away from Mrs. Doubleday. The avowed
object of Amy Castles’ first benefit concert in Melbourne
was to provide means for the immediate despatch of Amy
Castles to Paris, where she was to be educated as a
dramatic soprano 1 and a “Future Melba” for the stage,
and nothing but the stage. Not until after that benefit
concert was there any general awakening to the fact that
She had come under the management of Father Robinson.
“S.S.” : The burlesque stage has its fashions in jokes.
For a long time the accouchement joke was quitethe thing.
Then the underclothing joke came into fashion. The joke
about the young woman who has 7s. 6d. a week and wears
sealskin is now off, and indications show that the joke
bearing on cat-amours is to be all the go this season.
Recently gags and ballads dealing with the perambula-
tions of midnight cats were in full blast at three Mel-
bourne theatres, and exciting such roars of happy
laughter that I can see no escape from a long run of
feline “ humor.”
“Waif” : I join issue with “Ed eson ”re speeches in
Shakespeare’s plays that actors “ throw off ” over the
foot ights. Certainly I would wipe out many of those
superfluous speeches—not “until actors and audience had
learned things,” but for good and all. I have seen Irving,
Phelps, Booth, Herman Vezin, Barry Sullivan, Mdme.
Modjeska, with their companies ; also Marie Litton and
Mary Anderson, who had first-rate companies, in most of
the Shakespeare plays they produced in London. Most
of the actors in those co’s. were artists, as art goes on the
stage ; yet not one of them could make certain of the
speeches in question seem other than solo orations
addressed to the audience, though they did all they knew I
to keep in the picture. Terriss was a good Mercutio, but I
he gave up trying to talk “Queen Mab” to his mates,
and undisguisedly orated it. Herman Vezin, a model
Jaques, dwelt in the forest of Arden, but he had to elocute
the “ Seven Ages,” because it is built so. Ellen Terry
never did anything better than Portia, but “ The Quality j
of Mercy” was unquestionably “strained.” Hamlet is
another story. I have seen Irving many times, and, pur- I
posel.v, never any other in “Hamlet.” Irving never came
out of the picture—he was the picture. I would not lay
hand upon a word of “Hamlet”—except, of course, the
wretched rhymed tags.
A London daily paper headings :
CANNIBALISM IN NEW , GUINEA.
WHY SAVAGES ARE SO FOND OF THE FLESH
OF MAN.
By The Bishop of New Guinea.
We expect to hear yet of his lordship, Stone-Wigg, on at
the ’alls doing a corner turn with real cannibal bones.
“ J.D.”: May Beatty, who scores such honors as the
slavey from Ratcliffe ’lghway in “A Chinese Honey-
moon," at Melb. Princess’s, shows a newly-developed
: cleverness. For years she was a neat and plump little
singing girl in Tom Pollard’s co., and that was all. She
is now the only low comedienne worth speaking about in
'Australia. May, not at all a bad-looking damsel to begin
w T ith, has the courage to make up ugly, walk with her
toes in, and appear awkward all over. And that is half
the secret; the other half being cleverness and a disposi-
tion to let-it-go.
“ D.W.”: T’other day I emulated the hero of melo-
drama by protecting the lonely female in distress.
Turning out-of Bourke-street, Melb., into Spring-street,
I encountered a thick-set, middle-aged man, pipe in
mouth, threatening a frowsy lady with uplifted fist. As
the lady seemed in imminent danger of a knock-out, I
stepped forward and said, sternly, “ Don’t you hit that
woman ! ” The bluff worked, and the man, possibly under
the impression that I was a champion pug, dropped his
fist apologetically. But the lady, the moment I diverted
his attention, hopped lightly forward, and, with a well-
aimed left swing, landed on the bowl of the man’s pipe,
driving the mouthpiece hard against his palate. A
policeman came on the scene at that moment. The last
I saw of the affair was the lone woman wrestling on the
pavement with the constable, while the thick-set man
was staunching the blood from his mouth.
John Fuller’s show of variety entertainers has put up a
record by running a continuous six months’ performance
in both Hobart and Launceston. Combination does the
trick, artists being changed judiciously between - the two
villages every week or two, and fresh talent imported
from the mainland. O. Fanning and Georgie Devoe have
just finished a profitable little engagement, and most of
the Sydney and Melb. variety people get the chance of
doing a Tas. turn for Fuller. The entertainments are
well-conducted, and Fuller looks like becoming a per-
manency in the Isle of Dreams, and obtaining a vote for
the Leg. Council.
The Kendals, nowadays, seem to suffer from much the
same sense of personal grievance that made the unhappy
Dacres, of yore, such difficult people for a manager to get
on with. At the Opera House, Leicester (Eng.) t’other
week, Mrs. Kendal wanted to round off the performance
with a speech to the audience, telling them what a dirty
theatre it was behind the scenes, and how the manage-
ment didn’t understand what was due to ladies and
gentlemen, and so forth. But the management knew
what was coming. As soon as Mrs. K. began her oration,
the band started a hideous tumult of big drum and brass
music, including cymbals. Whereupon the audience
sought to intimidate the fiendish band, but the trombone
and co. continued to blow and bang until the manage-
ment turned the lights out, so that they could escape in
the darkness through the little door under the stage.
Tiie actress fired off her complaint after all, or,, at any
rate she got it reported as a speech from the stage, and
the world seems to have been sympathetic. Nevertheless
the action of the band suggests that Mrs. K. is growing
unreasonable in her old age. The band doesn’t waste any
affection on the management as a rule. The band
believes in bucking-up for its rights. There’s a lot or
Britons-never-will-be-slaves about the band. In this case,
cne verdict of the Band must be accepted as final it
agreed to Shut the Lady Up.
various fashionable stage aspirants who are going
H? . Runaway Girl ” in Melbourne naturally all
wanted either to be the Man from Cooks, or among the
vvif C “ iu w w * lo are Privileged to follow that agile person,
vvnen the parts were finally allotted the charitable ardor
ox several of the disappointed ones rapidly cooled, and
nnally it was found necessary to enlist the services of a
few mercenaries of singing ability to help in the chorus,
it would be interesting to measure the line of demarca-
tion between the fashionable amateurs—baw—and their
w',7- Chonsters - Stage-mananger Spencer Barry, lent by
Williamson, has formed rather a high opinion of the
capabilities of the people who are going to play Lauri,
Carrie Moore and the rest. His first injunction to them
was to get off the line of mere imitation, which would
mean sure destruction, and put a little individuality into
their performance. And some of them astonished him
by doing so. ...
Mr. Riddell (husband of “Maggie Sterling”) is one of
the victims to this Melbourne winter. He had been ill
for years, and when his devoted wife left Australia to
seek a wider scope for her bread-earning capacities, he>
regarded the parting as final. /


WORDS TO THE WISE
df
1
. T>-rri wn-D-nq r>TP POT DEN COUNSEL. Those who accept them when in need are wise in their generation. No man knoweth
A RE WORDS OF IxULUfiIN l-uuino av be short-lived ; the morrow maybe tragic with pain, misery and lll-
\ what the hour may bring forth > tb o ' Ia PP - Jj. check until it is driven out. The great benefactors to humanity,
health. When disease has enteredAhe human Life recevves ™ th *‘j-rebMAN and WALLACE INSTITUTE. They
the skilled Specialists and Scientists of the g , i- rinrina- the long years they have practised in Australasia than any
have benefited more sufferers and saved more» martynprofSonal skill. The Specialists have thousands,
association of medical men. A testimonial from a gratefuJ Piovea^o^ 1 of all . W Lt are riches to you if you have
If it is your ambition to gam riches, guard you • bearer of disease. Prosperity and Plenty are the servants of
H«Uh? K A SmSirfs evil in the body ; the Wise Man acts upon it at once, and the Wise Physician
and Specialist loses no opportunity to dispel that symptom by curing the disease.
gd
[HAPPINESS)
Cause and Effect.
DISEASE is the cause of a departure from Health. Pain, re-
morse, endless misery is the effect of that cause. Thousands
of people say daily “if they had only known ” they might have
escaped so-and-so. Then where a valuable life is threatened,
disease should be averted, and the life saved.* INSOMNIA,
DYSPEPSIA, INDIGESTION, PALPITATION, EPILEPSY,
GOUT, HYSTERIA, SCIATICA, RHEUMATISM, LUM-
BAGO, FUNCTIONAL and ORGANIC NERVE DISEASES,
all claim yearly victims. Yet all these diseases are cured by the
SPECIALISTS of the FREEMAN and WALLACE INSTI-
TUTE, and cured daily.
©
~S£
One Testimony.
TREATMENT, for his nerve and muscular system. Tins
is what it did for him :
ii | have been wearing one of your Electric 1 In-
vierorators’ during training for various contests
in Sydney, and have found it most beneficial,
both to my nerve and muscular systems. I desire
to state that your Electro-Medical treatment has
done me undoubted good. ” Q JOHNS.
Champion Lightweight of Australia.
This patient can be interviewed concerning the merits of this
wonderful instrument.
Three Physicians to the Late Honored Queen declared
TT'LECTRICITY to be a valuable aid to medicine S arJusedbyThe SPEGTALISTs'of ThJy hold
lit IMPERIAL PHYSICIANS, Drs. HOLLAND -LOGO OK 0^ e a "'£ o contains two ounces 18ot. gold, which is in itself worth £B. The £1 instrument is specially
certificates of efficacy which are unquestionable. The high-grade IN thi ’ electric current enters and re-animates them, giving the necessary vitality the absence of which is the
unison with the electric application, cure many persistent diseases classed as -incurable.
PRICES.
Following are the Prices of these Wonderful Life-Saving Instruments. _ . ..
Copper Plat 3, £1 ; Silver Plato, £1 10s; Solid Silver, £3 ; Solid Cold, £lO (2oz. 18ct. Cold).
Practical Private Tests given Certificates of Genuineness shown from Electrical Experts which can be daily seen. Statutory Testimonials
Practical Private Tests There jg nQ caae of Physical or Nerve Exhaustion which this Treatment will not Cure.
fgd
VIGOR
Credentials.
-uvrif DTPT.OMAS and CERTIFICATES of QUALIFICATION and
N REGISTRATION of th e to the 1 VICTORIA'
bv the MEDICAL BOARDS of NEW SOUTH WALES, \ICTORIA,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA ENGLAND, and AMERICA, open for pub he
fnspecHon life Hospital, Melbourne, and British Imperial
Arm il R DOMINIC CORRIGAN, BART., PHYSICIAN to the late honored
QUEEN, savs of the Physician-in-Chief. ..
“ I entertain a high opinion of DR. WALLACE, in respect to his pro-
fessional qualifications.”
In all cases the opinions of the SPECIALISTS are Riven free of charge.
NERVE and BLOOD DISEASES are the SPECIALITIES of the INSTI-
TUTE. Letters are replied to punctually, and medicines packed and
forwarded free from observation to any Australian address.
Literature.
.. CLINICAL EXPERIENCES ” comprises 550 PAGES upon general
diseases, with 150 MEDICAL ILLUSTRATIONS, 35 CHAPTERS OF
INSTRUCTIVE MATTER, and graphically written articles upon SNAKE-
BITE INSOMNIA, INVALIDS and TREATMENT, ALCOHOLISM and
EFFECTS, PLAGUE, FEVERS, ELECTRICITY, FRACTURES, GUN-
SHOT WOUNDS SUNSTROKE, CANCER, CONSUMPTION, LOVE
AND MARRIAGE, EPILEPSY, BRONCHOOELE, ABSCESS, INVALIDS,
AND TREATMENT, CARE OF CHILDREN, ETC. It is elegantly
bound, beautifully illustrated, with 30 pages upon Anatomy, 20 illustra-
tions showing the osseous, muscular, and nervous mechanism of the body.
Post free, Is. IN STAMPS. Also articles upon the Care of the Sick, Burns
and Scalds, Restoring Apparently Drowned, Dropsy, Asthma, and a list of
50 valuable prescriptions, which are invaluable in every home. POSI
FREE TO ALL AUSTRALIA. No further charge.
fg
VITALITY
The
dr
FREEMAN & WALLACE
RICHARD WALLACE, M.D.L.R.C.P., L.R.C.S.L.M., Physioian-in-Chief
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director Eleetro-Medical Dept. DR
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute,
Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
AN OPEN INVITATION.
ALTHOUGH our Stocks are the finest and best-selected, and displayed by us in the most handsome Stores
in Australasia, don’t for a moment think that our Stores are too grand for you, or that you
can get more for your money in a smaller place. If you do think so you make a big mis ae,
and the sooner you give us the opportunity to prove that this is so the better will it be for you.
Does it not stand to reason that we, with our six popular Australasian stores (two more will be opene
in a couple of months, one in Brisbane and the other in Dunedin, N.Z.) can buy in larger quantities and sell at
lower prices than single shops ? Is not the possession of these six stores proof that our prices please the public 7
Next time you want anything in our line, come in and see how well and how cheaply we can supp y your
wants. It will cost you nothing to look round and get all the information you want, and even if you don t buy
we won’t be offended. Let the purse be fat or lean, the same careful and courteous attention is given to all.
If you are out of town your name and address on a post card will bring our 1902 Catalogue, and you will see
that we can serve you just as carefully by post as if you were standing before the counter.
Watches **
to depend on.
mHAT is the only kind we stock, because we know
that a Watch that does not keep time is much
worse than no Watch at all. We quote a few prices
and our Watch Catalogue tells of the others. You
can have a Catalogue free if you ask for it.
Gents.’ Shortwind Keyless Nickel Watch
»• >i » » »
„ » Steel „
9t
ft
f»
It
ft
„ Silver
>• M
Silver English Lever
„ Waltham „
„ Rotherham Lever
s. d.
14 6
18 0
21 0
25 0
30 0
40 0
70 0
70 0
90 0
Keeper Rings
gdr
In a wide variety of hand-
some, hand-chased designs.
We make them in 18ot. gold,
and at the prices quoted
you will find we give excel-
lent value—2ss, 30s, 355.
Engagement Rings.
g
A Five-Stone Diamond Halt-
Hoop Ring has always been
the favorite style, and we
have a splendid stock to
select from. We illustrate
our Five Guinea Ring—five
Sparkling Diamonds set in 18et. Gold. Better
ones at £6 10s, £8 10s, £lO 10s, and higher if you
want them.
Wedding Rings,
d
Of 18ct. Gold, in different
thicknesses and widths ; all
sizes. We are sure you can’t
get better value anywhere,
and here you can rely on
our rings being full quality
18ct. Gold.
Prices—2ls, 255, 30s, 355,
40s, 50s, 60s.
Spoons
and Forks.
A 1 QUALITY.
pLATED on pure Nickel Silver
and warranted to give com-
plete satisfaction. Old English or
Fiddle Patterns.
Table Spoons .. 355. per dos.
Table Forks .. 85s. „
Dessert Forks 255. ~
Dessert Spoons 255. „
Tea Spoons .. 16s. „
See our Spoon and Fork List for
Lower Grades.
OE
FID
Tie Clips
The handiest things imaginable. Keep the tie in
position. Suitable alike for ladies and gentlemen.
Prices—Silver, Is 6d a pair; 9ct. Gold, 6s 6d ; Heavy,
12s 6d ; Pearl or Turquoise Set, 14s 6d ; Sapphire or Ruby
Set, 16s 6d.
Gold Muff Chains.
There is a dressy gracefulness about these long Gold Ohains
that ensures their being fashionable for some time to come.
We stock a big range in 9ct. Gold from 635, and in 16ct.
Gold from £5 ss. The one we illustrate is extra heavy and
costs, in 9ct. £4 15s, in 15ct. £8 10s.
gfg
412*GEORGE nr SYnvrT
ALL GOODS SENT FREE AND SAFE BY POST ON RECEIPT OF REMIT-
TANCE ear Write for our ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
Cruets
A N immense stock of Cruets, Breakfast, Lunch or Dinner sizes, to choose from. Silver-
plated Frames and Spoons. Plain, Fancy or best Out Glass Bottles. The prices for
Breakfast Cruets run Bs. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d., 16s. 6d., 18s. 6d. ; Lunch size, 16s. 6d.,
18s. 6d., 215., 255., and Dinner Cruets 16s. 6d., 215., 275. 6d., all the way up to £5. The
last price buys a lovely Six Bottle Dinner Cruet, finest Full Cut Bottles and very best
Silver-plated Frame.
A CRUET FOR A LIFETIME.
Price 12s. 6d.
Gent’s Solid Gold Cuff Links
Of the very best English manufacture, Hall-marked, with strong chain connections» thus ensuring long
Dozens of good Designs to pick from.
No. F 126.
Oct. Gold, 16s 6d.
No. 201 A.
Oct. Gold, £1 Is.
No. 193 A.
9ct. Gold, 13s 6d.
R
No. 200.
Oct. Gold, £1 6a.
Pearl Crescent
Brooches.
A really pretty, well-made 15ct.
Gold Orescent Brooch, set with
Beal Pearls. A marvel of value.
£1 15s each. Hundreds of nice
Designs in Gold Brooches to pick
from at prices starting as low as ss,
and 9ct. gold, too, at that price.
Maori
Lucky
Beans
Made of the real
New Zealand
Green stone, so
highly prized by
the Maoris. We
have them in two
sizes, mounted with 9ct. Gold.
They are suitable for Gentlemen’s
Pendants, or to hang on a Lady’s
Bangle or Muff-Chain. Two sizes,
7s 6d and 9s 6d.
Curb Bangles.
The Ever - Fashionable bangle.
Fitted with Padlock and Safety
Chain. Each in a Morocco Case.
Set. Gold, three sizes—
£2, £2 16s, £S 10s
15ct. Gold, three sizes—
£3 16s, £6, £0 6s
Bamboo
Bangles
Still retain a
wide popular-
ity on account
of their novel
yet artistic
appearance. All our Bamboo Bangles are
well made and finished, and of good
weight. __
31
Oct. Gold as Sketch. .£176
Oct. Gold, larger .. £1 17 6
15ct. Gold £2 10
15ct. Gold £3 10
15ct. Gold £4 0
tttE have a fine selection of these Useful and Popular
W Articles in stock. They make nice Wedding Gifts,
especially when cased in half-dozens, as these are. The
prices run—
Pearl Handles 27 0
Ivory Handles .. .. .. .. 26 0
Solid Silver Handles 87 ft
Solid Silver *0 0
Carved Pearl 40 0
Cake Forks.


An official opinion of the “System.” In
“Letters from the Collection of Stanley le Flem-
ing, Rydal Hall, Westmoreland,” published by
the Historical Manuscripts Commission, appears
a letter from Australia’s first poet, Justice Field,
Judge-Advocate-General of N.S.W. in the early
part of last century, and friend of “ that mild
apostate from poetic rule, Wordsworth.” Writing
to his friend, Sir Michael le Fleming, Bart., of
Rydal, Judge Field complains bitterly of the in-
humanity of the captain and officers of the convict
ship on which he made the voyage to the colony,
in remaining at the Cape for four months trading
for their own profit, whilst the unfortunate
prisoners were battened under hatches; and re-
quests Sir Michael to mention the matter from
his place in the House of Commons. Was Field
a humane man, or had he been inconvenienced by
the delay, or had a quarrel with the officers?
Anyway, he didn’t remain long in “ Lagland.”
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
“ Bartal ” writes of a State school in
Barataria “ which is cursed with a pedagogue
whose father helped to storm some town or other
in Spain ”:
Every day, and nearly all day, the playground resounds
with sharply barked-out military commands. The sea-
soned veterans of the sth and 6th standards charge
fiercely down upon the undaunted heroes of the 3rd and
4th, who await their onslaught with firmness, third finger
of each hand lightly touching the outer seam of the
knickerbockers, heels together, toes turned out at an
angle of 45deg., just as Horatius must have stood on that
bridge. But, just when the impact is imminent, and
when the looker-on expects to see both parties “in one
red burial blent,” a ringing command comes from the
stormer’s son, standing off on the flank, and the storming
column wheels and rushes past its opponents, leaving
them miraculously unscathed. Then , perhaps, the
recruits from the 2nd standard, with a small contingent
from the “ o-x ‘ ox ’ ” and upper “ a b b,” spring out from
a donga, where they have been in amb u sh, and check the
progress of the veterans, who thereupon throw themselves
into “echelon” (or something), in response to the
frenzied shouts of their knickerbockered colonel. By
this time, the other division has taken up a commanding
position on a kopje, behind a tree-guard, and things are
beginning to get interesting when an unguarded point is
discovered, and the beleaguered troops effect their escape.
The balance of school-time is principally occupied in pull-
ing Sargood’s advertisement up and down a pole, and
imploring the Deity, in about 10 simultaneous and dif-
ferent keys, to effect the salvation of Edward VII. Now
that peace is declared, surely a little time could be
spared for teaching something that might, in the future,
be of practical use to these unlucky kids.
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
“ 0.P.” : In Kyabram, the hub of bogus
reform, the ‘ ‘ cockies ” and fruit-raisers pay their
men the lowest living wage, and in many in-
stances sack the worker on Saturday with the
request to apply again on Monday for the job—
to save Sunday’s tucker !
A Tyne-sider writes :
Re turbine-ships (Bulletin 14/6/’O2). It is claimed for
this mode of steam propulsion that vibration is entirely
eliminated. This cannot be. In a steamer there are
three distinct vibrations—that of the engine, propeller
and hull. The turbine does away with the first named
but the remaining two are still present, and in designing
a high speed vessel it is necessary that the hull and
propeller vibrations should not clash —they must work in
together. The loss of the Viper and Cobra was due to a
fault in the design—the Tyne-side yards are unequalled
for their engines but are noted for a flimsiness of hull.
The appearance of the two big Cunarders at present under
design will be watched with interest. They are to be
driven by turbines, each steamer developing a 24-knot
speed with a horse-power of about 50,000. They will no
doubt have reciprocating triple expansion engines on the
same shafts as the turbines—for slow speed and going
astern, turbines being very wasteful of power at slow
speed. At high speed the cylinder engines will be dis-
connected. This plan is to be adopted in the destroyers
at present building for the Imperial Govt.
“ Quercus ” : Re the inappropriateness of
hymns. A clergyman, talking on the subject,
tells that, in a convent-school, one day, he heard
the girls — little mites, from 7 to 12 years of age—
singing a hymn in which occurred the words,
Of our passions we are weary,
Weary of the yoke of sin.
Some days afterwards, he had to conduct a service
for an absent gaol chaplain, and, on entering the
chapel, was taken aback at hearing the convicts
roaring lustily,
Dear angel, ever at my side,
How lovely must thou be,
To leave thine home in Heaven to guide
A simple child like me.
Apropos. Walking in the street, heard one of
Sydney’s blind women singing,
I’ll guide thee with Mine eye.
df
HARLENE
FOR
THE
/
THE GREAT
HAIR PRODUCER
and RESTORER.
The Veiy Finest Dressing, Specially
Prepared and Delicately Perfumed
for the Toilet.
“HARLENE”
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents Its Falling-
Off or Turning Grey.
UNEQUALLED FOR PROMOTING THE GROWTH OF
THE BEARD AND MOUSTACHE.
THE RENOWNED
REMEDY FOR BALDNESS.
m
m
For Preserving, Strengthening, and Rendering the Hair Beautifully Soft; for Removing Scurf; Dandruff, tea. also for
RESTORING GREY HAIR TO ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
".HARLENE ” PRESERVES, STRENGTHENS, AND INVIGORATES CHILDREN’S HAIR.
Full description and directions for use in 20 languages supplied with every bottle.
1/., 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size; 4/6 per Bottle from Druggists &c., all over the World.
■CHARLENE” Co., High Holborn, LONDON, ENGLAND.
rr
TWO POINTS OF MUCH IMPORTANCE.
gdfg
lenbunjs 800
The great success attending the use of the “Allenburys” Milk Foods is in a great measure
due to the two following important facts: —
(i) Their similarity in composition to human milk; the constituents being in (2)
the same relative proportions. _ ...... ...
Mixed with water according to the directions a humanized milk is provided.
The readiness with which they can De digested and assimilated by
the infant,both foods being as easy of assimilation as maternal milk,
and much more so than ordinary modified or diluted cow’s milk.
The “ Allenburys ” Foods are especially valuable in hot climates. They are in the
form of powder and keep perfectly.
K3T
Pamphlet on “INFANT FEEDING ” (48 pages) free ,
from 495 , Bourke Street , Melbourne.
Allen & H anbury s, Ltd., tPlougd Qourt, Lombard st., Jbondon.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to three months.
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From three to six months.
MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From six months and upwards.
THOUSANDS OF TESTIMONIALS
m
W
I
m
m
§m
a
WA
I^.
■rtM
V-
£
~ ?!
H*>
m
Ar.
M
>
N
7,
ft
f
1
mi
tmE
F -I B
&
LT
□
Q
IVjtJ
3
"“dr. McLaughlin go.
85 Klng-st., Sydney,
167-E Swanston-st., Melbourne
Hours : 9 a.m. to 8.30 p.m;
Electricity is the life of the body, and when your system has very little electricity, it certainly cannot
respond to the demands made upon it. Restore the electrical energy, and you restore your vigor. The only
way to do this is to pump a constant vitalising stream of electricity into the weakened human storage batteries
until they are able to again show their force, and take up their work. To do this, you must have an appliance
that will carry a continuous and powerful current of this unseen force into your body for several hours at a
time Dr McLaughlin’s Electric Belt is the only appliance to be had which possesses these important require-
ments. After your family physician gives you up, it cures LAME BACK, INDIGESTION, RHEUMATISM,
DYSPEPSIA, ANEMIA, VARICOSE VEINS, assists Rupture, and restores the body to its full and normal
vigor. It is endorsed by thousands.
Could Not Walk.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co., Jamison Town,
Dear Sirs : June 6th, 1902.
I cannot speak too highly of your Electric Belt. For
17 years I have suffered from Lame Back and Legs, caused
by carrying a heavy weight. For the last 10 years I have
been almost a cripple. I have been under several medical
men during the time, but never received any lasting
benefit from their treatment.
A few weeks ago I saw your advertisement in the Daily
Telegraph about your Electric Belts. I came to Sydney
and purchased one, and the result from wearing it four
hours a day is marvellous. I can now stoop and touch
my boots and feet with my left hand, a feat I have not
been able to perform for the last 10 years. v
My neighbors are astonished at the great improvement
in my health. Some of them want to know what I have
done with my walking-stick. I can attribute this great
improvement in myself to nothing else but your Electric
Belt. , „ . v
You may use this testimonial as you please for the
benefit of all sufferers.—Gratefully yours,
CHARLES SHEPHERD.
Was Unable to Work.
Galston,
The Dr. McLaughlin 00. June 19, 'O2.
Dear Sirs, —
I see by the Daily Telegraph that people seem to think
you pay for testimonials, and I, for one, having been a
sufferer, feel it my duty to resent this.
I am 58 years of age, and, about two years ago, received
a fall on to my shoulders, that gave me a very bad hurt;
and, again, I got hurt about nine months ago.
I frequently used porous plasters and linaments, which
I rubbed on the afflicted parts, without receiving any
benefit, and could hardly breathe or. account of pain.
It is now about four months since I got your Belt, and
it has done me a wonderful lot of good. lam now able
to work —a thing I could not do before I got the Belt.
You are at liberty to use this letter in any way you see
fit, and I shall be pleased to give all information I can to
any seeking after health.—Yours gratefully,
W. RAWLINGS.
Other so-called Electric Belts had failed mo en-
tirely; but your Electric Belt Cured me of-my lame
back, which had troubled me for years. One week’s
wear seemed sufficient, as I have no further pain.—
A. J. GREENLAND, J.P., “ Launchley,” Uralla,
N.S.W.
One of your high-grade Belts made a new man of
my husband. For years his liver troubled him, and he
was weak and run down. Now he takes delight in
telling his friends what you did for him, and don’t
seem to ever get tired of praising your appliance.—
Mrs. HARRIET POTTS, Hodson-street, Hurstville,
N.S.VV.
£25 Reward
For Proof that
we ever
Bought, or
Published a
Bought Testi-
monial.
I am 72 years old, and always arose tired and
languid in the mornings, and with a bad back. After
wearing your belt for about four hours a day for a
few weeks,.l feel a young man again, and as hearty
and well in every respect.—JNO. DIXON, Bened-
meer, N.S.W., 31/St/’O2.
Your Belt is worth its weight in gold. For years I
suffered a living death from Sciatica, but a few short
months of your electric treatment cured me, and put
me right again. It gives me pleasure to recommend
your Belt to both my friends and strangers.—Yours
gratefully,
WM. OGLESBY, Kegworth-street, Leichhardt.
Worn while you sleep, our Belt pumps a Constant, Soothing Current of Electricity into your body for
hours at a time. No burning or blistering of the skin, because the metal discs are covered with the proper
Electrodes, and tlie current is under perfect control by means of the regulator attachment, which permits any
desired strength of current being used. Electricity alone is the proper remedy for all organic or functional
weaknesses, arising from improper circulation and unnecessary waste of energy absolutely restores your vigor.
FREE BOOK—FREE TEST—FREE ADVICE.
If you are suffering from any of the ailments we are able to cure, come in and convince yourself that the
BELT is all we claim it to be. We will be glad to explain every detail of our treatment. Don’t imagine you
have to buy because you come for an examination. You don’t. Nor you don’t have to pay a consultation fee,
either.
To the men or women who want to regain their health, who want to feel like they did before misfortune
overtook them, we offer One of our Books, which will show the road to happiness. They are brimful of the
things you will like to read, which will give you courage and enlighten you as to the causes and cure of your
troubles. They will point out the pitfalls, and guide you safely to a future of strength and They
are beautifully illustrated, and tell what others have suffered, and how they have cured themselves. They are
free, and will be sent, closely sealed, without marks. If you are not as well as you ought to be, send for one
to-day.


“Tommy Cornstalk” Abbott’s war-book
is welcomed by Adelaide Advertiser because
the writer’s mind is “entirely free from that
unreasoning prejudice against the enemy which
lias spoiled,” &c. This from a benighted journal
which but lately spent most of its space in filling
Crow-eaters’ minds with “ that unreasoning preju-
dice ” is indeed deliciously Arctic.
Queen Alexandra, much to the anxiety of
the officials, insists on wearing at the Coronation
the Koh-i-noor, the jewel whose history is so full
of crime and bloodshed. The last time it was
stolen was some years ago, in the reign of Vic-
toria, after a Buckingham Palace function, but
the fact was not disclosed until after H.M.’s
death. The loss and recovery of this gem, valued
at two millions sterling, covered less than an
hour’s time. The Queen, after wearing the jewel,
left it on a table, in charge of one of the royal
dressers. A German maid attending a foreign
princess, having induced the dresser to leave the
apartment for a few moments, palmed the Koh-i-
-noor and disappeared. An alarm was raised, the
woman was traced, and a confederate, to whom
she had handed the diamond, was captured with
her in the adjoining park. It would have been a
difficult article to dispose of, unless broken up.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds tlmt Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when yon
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. rerhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
t 0 amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CUKL YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured,
tend at once for «
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the core of Bad Legs,
I lunsemaid s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
hands, lumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
Britain, I/ljd. per box. Prepared by
* I *3, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents t ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
took for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
30 Days’ Trial
dr
We grant every purchase*
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
lkits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Bells give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If jfc does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing:, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
CALVE RT S
CARBOLIC
TOILET
SOAP
BEST FOR THE SKIN and
COMPLEXION.
Antiseptic, Emollient, Refreshing.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &c.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
LADIES.
g
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
m
"'t®
THE HARP-O-CHORD.
HARMONICA or MOUTH-HARP and ZITHER
ACCOMPANIMENT COMBINED.
THE tone of the harp enters directly into the body of the instrument and
emanates at the sound-hole with wonderful volume and vibratory effect,
twice as loud as both Mandolin and Guitar. Any Mouth Harp player
can play the Harp-o-Chord on sight, and anyone can easily learn to play the
Mouth Harp. One person can furnish music for Parties, etc., and for the
Serenade it has no equal with its beautiful tone and wonderful carrying
power. A Whole Band in One Instrument, and anyone can learn to pay it.
No knowledge of music is required. The HARP-O-CHORD is an elegantly
finished, high-class instrument, sold at a price within the reach of all. Its
dimensions are seventeen inches long by eight inches wide, weight 40 ounces.
It is substantially constructed, elegantly finished and decorated, strung with
copper-spun and silver-steel strings, blue steel tuning pins, polished. Each
instrument fitted with a high-grade Harmonica, and enclosed in a neat paste-
board case, with tuning key, and the simple but complete instructions for
playing. Simply play the tune or air upon the Harp, and the accompaniment
on the strings. When the Chords are played upon the string’s and the tune
upon the harp, the voluminous tone of the combination surprises all. The
tone of the harp is not only greatly increased in volume, but displays a rich-
ness and mellowness before unknown. Price of the Harp-o-Chord complete,
with Mouth Harp, Key, and full directions, 18/6. Carriage Paid by Parcels
Post to any part of Australasia. We are the sole agents in Australasia for
the Harp-o-Chord. Orders should be sent accompanied by Money Order in
Registered Letter and addressed to —
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY
229-231 COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
dr
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.'*
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 86 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and* Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, posjt Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self jls 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is 3d.
Secret History of the Court of England, 1/6 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is Sd post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post tree. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappho, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid*
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d-
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big- Book
Catalogue—post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney,
Dr- Clarksou’g Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s He-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr.CLARKSON’SRE-INVIGORATOR
will hring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs Is tmlv wonderful.
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC. urgans is truly wonaertui.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d.'per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
CA«L OR WRlTE—
o\7tri_.
RATE DRUG STORE,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
V
• •
H
SAVE YOUR
A3NOIAI
#
47
%
1
SAVE YOUR
TIME,
PROSPERITY
CAN’T LAST FOR EVER WITHOUT THE
PUBLIC’S CONFIDENCE AND APPRECIATION,
/
EVIDENCE OF WHICH IS DAILY RE-
CEIVED IN THE FORM OF TESTI-
MONIALS AND GRATEFUL LETTERS
BY -
Herr RASSMUSSEN
THE WORLD-FAMED DANISH
HERBALIST & BOTANIST,
PROPRIETOR OF THE
ALFALINE
HERBAL
REMEDIES
REGISTERED
A FEW WORDS TO THE UNINITIATED.
PERSONAL AND PERTINENT .—Those who have Dot met Herr Rassmussen, and
who have not given his Alfaline Herbal Remedies a trial, may find it beneficial to become
acquainted with the good work which he has done in the interest of suffering humanity for
the last twenty years.
ALONG BACK IN THE BEGINNING OF THE EIGHTIES
Herr Rassmussen introduced his now world-famed Alfaline Herbal Remedies to the Australian public at 547 George
Street, Svdncy. Australia was then flooded with American importations and proprietary remedies, manufactured
by doubtful persons with assumed names and fictitious addresses, who took the people’s money without
responsibility, and very often without giving them fair value for same.
HERR RASSMUSSEN BROUGHT ABOUT A REVOLUTION
by straightforward and fair dealings with the public, offering to stake his reputation and future if his remedies
were not as efficacious as he claimed them to be, accepting all responsibility, and willing to abide by the people’s
verdict.
THE HAPPY RESULT 13 KNOWN TO EVERYONE.
Over twenty years have passed away, hundreds of remedies have come and gone—many of them were forced on
the public in numerous designing ways—thousands of pounds spent on advertising same with the assistance of the
world's grea'est experts in laying traps for the unwary ; but the public would have none of them, and they have
disappeared as suddenly as a flash of lightning.
“THE ALFALINE REMEDIES EXCELL ALL OTHERS,”
and are well known to be more popular to-day than they have ever been. They have not only obtained, hut
have retained the goodwill and confidence of the Australian public, and have become famous throughout the
civilized world. The first Sydney Office not only yet exists, but offices have been opened up for their sale at
Melbourne, Bri.-banc, Adelaide, Wellington, N Z., and in West Australia at Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie and
Boulder City, with Agencies throughout the world,
LET THE PUBLIC JUDGE FROM THE FOLLOWING:—
The Alfaline Remedies have held their own for over twenty years in Australia, and Herr Rassmussen has
been awarded the Parisian Acadamies’ Go’, 1 Medal and Diploma of Honour ; Gold Medal, Sydney, and several Silver
Medals; honourably mentioned in almost every newspaper in Australia; received many thousands of unsolicited
testimonials—every one of the originals open for inspection at his Offices. The Alfaline Remedies have never been
known to fail to cure in a single instance.
ARE THEY NOT WORTH A TRIAL?
if they are, why not try them to day ? why leave it till to-morrow and, perhaps, lose your chance and time 7 No
order so small that it is not welcome ; no order so large that it cannot be executed at once. If you first wish
evidence of the efficacy of the Alfaline Remedies,
SEND.FOR HIS FREE BOOK,
and read what the experienced have to say, and what the Australian newspapers have to say—the doublo distilled
extracts from the Press speak for themselves
A FEW OF THE ALFALINE REMEDIES:
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS never fail to cure Nervous Diseases, Weak Spine,
Troubled Braiu. Fatigued Nerves/Despondency, Poor Memory, Debility, Want of Confidence,
restore Vital Strength, and preserve the system against being affected by age more than any
known remedy. Boxes, 6/- and 12/- ; course, 23/6 posted.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS are a permanent cure for all Chronic. Blood and Skin
Diseases, no matter how caused, or of how long standing—Blotches, Blood Disorders, Gravel,
Diseases of the Urinary Organs, etc., etc. Boxes, 6/- and 12/- ; courses, 23/6 posted.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS completely cure Wasting Diseases in Women
Ansemia, Whites, Poverty of Blood, Sallow Complexion, Dull Eyes, aud act as a perfect
Blood and Nerve Tonic. Boxes, 6/- and 12/- ; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE RHEUMATIC PILLS cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica, Lumbago, Ravages
from Rheumatic Fever, Chalky Formasion in the Joints. Boxes, 3/-, 6/-, and 12/-; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS remove all Stomach Troubles, Costive*
ness, Indigestion, Flatulence, Heartburn, Wind, Biliousness and Headache. Boxes, 1/*.
GENERAL ALFALINE REMEDIES.
Alfaline Pile Powders cure internal and external Piles, boxes 3/- and 6/- ; Varicocele
Powders, boxes 6/-; Blood Capsules or Globulus, 6/-; Fat Reducing Powders, which remove
Corpulency, 6/- ; Hair Restorer, 6/- ; Corn Cure, 1/- ; Ointment, 1/-; Eucalyptus Oil and
Jujubes, boxes 1/- ; Flesh-Producing Powders, 6/-; Complexion Beautifiers remove Pimples
and Freckles, 3/- and 6/-; Alfaline Embrocation removes all sorts of Muscular Pains, Stiff
Joints—good for Footballers, bottles 1/6 posted; Worm Tablets, 1/-; Headache Tablets,
Instant Cure, 1/-; Soluble Quinine Pessaries, 5/-; Electric Belts, Suspenders, Bandages,
Enemas, Glass Syringes, etc. Circulars with all particulars sent Fro*.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALITY.
HERu RASSMUSSEN has made special arrangements for attending
personally to his Clients living in the Country, and letters will receive
most careful personal attention. Advice or information sent free and
unobserved. Patrons may rely on skilful, honest and confidential treatment.
His Remedies will he forwarded to sufferers, packed in plain cover and
unobserved, together with Advice and Directions. Letters should he addressed
to Herr Rassmussen’s full name—HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN—and
Registered if containing Money, and may he sent to any of
Herr Rassmussen’s Addresses:
Head Office: 547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
ALSO AT
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke Street
BRISBANE—3O9 Queen Street
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney Street
IT .3.-91 Lambton Quay, Wellington
W.A.—PERTH—4BI Hay Street
KALGOORLIE—Hannan Street
BOULDER ClTY—Piesse Street
FREMANTLE—II7 High Street
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of Alfaline Remedies.


In the recent Bury (Lancashire) bye-
•leetion the R.C. Bishop of Salford appealed to
the Irish voters to support the Tory candidate,
who favored aid to sectarian schools. Redmond,
Dillon and T. P. O’Connor advised them to sup-
port the Liberal, who opposed sectarian schools,
80 U lidlv V to re th ft H w me « Ul f‘ T r h «. lrish vote went
solidly to the Home Ruler. This is scarcely an
Rule” r,h. h T ‘‘Home Rate” means
Rule, as the Tories declare when they are not too
busy trying to buy the Holy Roma/ vote them
3elves by concessions.
He the possibility of the island of Mar-
tinique subsiding altogether, writes London Daily
Chronicle :
Some years ago Aurora Island, New Hebrides, entirely
disappeared one night, leaving no trace behind. Se\ en-
teen years agj a new island made its appearance in
Tonga, and was promptly “ annexed ” by a loyal British
trader, who “boarded” it, waded knee-deep in the soft
scoriae to its summit, and proudly hoisted the Union
Jack. Falcon Island lived for about a dozen years,
attained to the dignity of growing a few banana and
cocoanut trees, and then one day disappeared as myste-
riously as it came 1
ROB ROY
PENS.
Hunts, Wells & Co. beg to draw attention to this new senes of
turned up pointed and other pens, made of the same material, by the
same tools by the same process and at the same works, as the well
known series of Waverley Pens, which limits, Wells & Co. have for
30 years and upwards (prior to September 1901), manufactured for
and supplied to the proprietors thereof.
CB>°‘
«a
Sold by all
Stationers in 18
varieties in
6d., la. & gross boxes.
¥TTNKS. WELLS * CO. Birminffham,
England.
“ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 65., Postage Bd., from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Beanie’s Bronehitis Core.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS,
BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have talcen this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing,
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete C
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develo]
never been known to exist where “.Coughs ’’ have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose i
and a Complete Cure is certain.
Hoarseness, Pain o
ure. It is most com
p. Consumption ha
is generally sufficient
BEWARE OP COIJGRS ♦
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPT [ON TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OP HE ARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OPE THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“Orange, N.S.W.
“Dear Sir, —I enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
if London, England, from which you will glean that
pour medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
folds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
te mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, anil you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
and. You can see for yourself v. hat an immense success
It was. —Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
mich Interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
»ff the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
lupplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS* TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OP HEAHNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
T . , . .. “ Dergh'dm, Victoria.
"Dear Sir,—l wish to add my testimony to the won-
lerful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
nonths, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights 1
1 was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. ‘ I had medical
idvice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
'ours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the !
Irst dose, and though I have had hut two bottles I feel I j
•m a different man, and the has vanished. You I
nay depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
ronderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY.**
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
learne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
ectly and rapktiv successful under circumstances which
indoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
he Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
Uty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS.
"I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cnred each of them in from one to three
doses. —P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
•
“Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending-for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.— A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
•
" My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.— R.’ BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
•
“I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
“I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure von sent, and am amazed at wiiat it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
•
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
•
“I lately administered some of vour Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
®
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.— (Mrs.) J. SLATER, warragul, Vieioria.”
0
„ “ I r a-»n very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once
U. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” @
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
o _,"r J' a^ e t , rie< J.. l i! ts , n ' et *' ,, ' n > but yours is the best I ever bad. lam recommending it to everybody S
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” © s - v y '
“I suffered from Chronic As!bn a and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine
imitv o that lam astomslmd at my present freedom, as a direct result of mv brief trial.—JOHN C*
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, tni Inverell, N.S. W.” ‘
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas did not do
me any goodI; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well —H HOOD
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Varra, Melbourne.” ’
0
Pl ® a . se * ell ' l n ) e half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
Point,DaH t htLd o or<r^ct h oria.° Ure 1 *°* from yon was in its effects.-CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDREDS fIUItEI) IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
••The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“ Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequentl,
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Viotorii
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchiti
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom
I mended to try your Bronchitis Cure bv Mr. Barham, ao
count-ant, Collins-street, and the effect that, it had was si
marked that he has ever since been continually recom
mending it to others.
“ VVe are glad to add this our testimony to the value o
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has easec
the sufferings cf hundreds and hundreds of people evet
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.’
Queensland Testimony*
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS
“69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
Mr. vv. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 3t
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose oui
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
• THOMASON, CIIATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemist*. “
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“lam, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser. *
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
ttie steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., -Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W. *
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
- Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 Georce Street Svdnev t»i onto
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, rewarded by Post to any’Address wilt'not obtainable Locally.
BRANCH DEPOT
Th ® ®^!Et T,NG & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
WrwRKS* Xllawarra <56 MILES FROM SYDNEY)
SMEETERS
AND
REFINERS
or
SILVER
LEAD
BULLION
,—.. , w —
-'.. . I . 1 V .*A. *,
s &t • ‘ - ' > 1
l, :4r v
ly «mces, General Offices, Store and Sulohuric Chamber
Highest Price paid for GOLD, SILVER, LE O and COPPER ORES, CIANIDE SLAGS, and JEWELLERS SWEEP &c
.tor all information regarding Rates, apply to HEAD OFFICE, DAPTO.
MAKERS OF
S. Co, of Australia
AND
“ ILL AW AURA
BRANDS OF
SOFT LEAD.
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay
W. L. HOYT, Manager.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medica? Record.
“ ‘Benges 6 Food ’
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
*
H
H
ood
Far Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious , Nutritive, and Digestible .
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c„, Everywhere
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would he difficult
to find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Benger’s
Food’ everywhere.”
“If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


Nature’s Pleasant Laxative,
California Syrup of Figs
The Best Family Medicine.
h
Acts
Gently
on
Kidneys,
Liver
and
Bowels,
overcoming
Habitual
Constipation
WHY ITS FAME IS WORLD-WIDE.
The excellence of California Syrup of Figs is due to its pleasant
form and perfect freedom from every objectionable quality or substance,
and to the fact that it acts gently and truly as a laxative without in any
way disturbing the natural functions. The requisite knowledge of what
a laxative should be and of the best means lor its production enable
the California Fig Syrup Co. to supply the general demand for a
laxative, simple and wholesome in its nature and truly beneficial in its
effects; a laxative which acts pleasantly and leaves the internal organs
in a naturally healthy condition and which does not weaken them.
The Good it Does is Permanent.
Ask for California Syrup of Figs, and look for the Name and Trade Mark o the California
Fig Syrup Co. Oi all Chemists, is. i£d. and is. 9d.
LONDON: 32 SNOW HILL. SYDNEY: 7 BARRACK STREET.
TRADE MARK.
■
1m
m
m
I
mmmm
mmm
m.'
■
m
m
m
m
MERIT OUTLIVES THE CENTURIE
Out of the West.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.
He came out of the West a week before Christmas,
and brought a lot of it with him. The color of the
sand on his face and hands ; the harsh toughness
of the mulga-sticks in his limbs; a bit of a mirage
gleam in his eyes, and a purpose solid-set as old
Mount Oxley in his heart. Yet he looked well on
the carpet of the Potts’ Point boarding-house.
And that far-away look in his eyes was “so
seductive.”
“Blame you? Lord, no! How could I blame
you ! What could I have done with you, or you
with me? Marry, and be happy, Lil. The Lord
make his face to shine on you, and not too hot.
Marry and be happy, and all the crows along the
timber will say ‘Amen’ to it. Don’t understand ?
I thought you knew all about it. Never mind ;
Alf will tell you when you are married. Good-
bye, good-bye! ”
Lil went out to the door alone. A little later
Alf came in.
“ Blame you ? What rot! Didn’t you let me
have £3OO0 —and on a second mortgage ? And
isn’t that sunk with the rest ? Didn't you promise
to look after Lil a bit, and haven’t you—haven’t
you ? Hang it all, old man, I’m dead-beat, and
you are taking the girl off my hands. What more
could a mate do?”
“ Of course there’s no chance of anybody coming
to the rescue ? ” said Alf.
“ No more chance than of a live crow helping a
dying lamb. I’ve put in five years, sunk all my
money, and yours too. You can have the whole
lot for what it owes you. Take it, man, take it;
and if the seasons change you will be a Tyson
before ten years, and Lil will glitter with
diamonds.”
“ I see no other course,”said Alf.
“ Away you go then. The starting-bell’s rung.
When’s the wedding ? ”
“The tenth.”
“I’ll be there. I’ll be there and I’ll send along
some presents.”
On the Bth Lil received a jeweller’s package. It
contained two brooches. One was a jet crow, the
other a silver rabbit. The crow had diamond, the
rabbit ruby eyes. “Not quite conventional, but
poor Will was always original.”
* • • »
“Take care of those things; there’s money in
them,” said Alf. But that was a fortnight later
when they were getting into the buggy at Cobar
to drive down to Lillibar. Lil had the rabbit at
her throat and the crow in her veil. They whirled
away in the red dust, and a tall man, with blood or
whisky behind the mirage-like gleam of his eyes,
came out on the verandah. “ The Lord make His
countenance shine on you, ” said he. And half a
hundred crows up at the slaughter-house croaked
“Amen.”
“You couldn’t expect the grounds to be just
like the Palace Gardens nor the house to be up to
Widgiewa or Neotsfield style, but there’s money in
it, Lil. He sank five thousand of his own and
worked five years. The bank let me have it,
reducing the advance by half.”
“ Poor Will! Endured five years of this ! ”
“Yes, and if he’d gone on for five years more
he would only have been deeper in.”
“ We shall get to town next summer of course.”
“ Town, yes, and 500 bales of wool will have
gone ahead of us.”
“ Kaak,” said the crow on the dead wilga the
rabbits had barked.
“And there goes a rabbit through the garden
fence, ” said Lil.
» * * »
“ I was looking for a job,” said the Long Fellow
to the overseer.
“ Can you shear ? ”
“No.” ;
“You can go picking dead wool then.”
“Right.” The Long Fellow went down to the hut.
His sandy beard rested on the coil of a horseshoe
swag. There was a mirage-like gleam in his eyes,
but the red rims were as the fringes of a desert
horizon. “What cheer?” said he to the cook.
And the cook answered, “ Be easy on that water.”
“Short, eh?”
“Drag it five miles. Boss was cursin’ the
missus this mornin’ for cartin’ a bucket out to the
magpies.”
“Ah!’’said the Long Fellow. “Many rab-
bits?”
“ Hell ain’t fuller of devils,” answered the cook,
and walked over to the wood-heap.
Next morning the Long Fellow mounted a
crock, and with a couple of wool-packs on the
saddle rode away toward the dead timber. He
passed the home-station in the withered garden. A
woman was moving heavily and wearily along the
verandah. Her dress was snowy-white, but her
complexion nearer the color of the tank water,
only more lead in it. “ The Lord makes his
countenance to shine on you,” said the Long
Fellow, and flogged his crock along towards the
dead wool amongst the dead sticks.
* * * *
“ I cannot stay here one week longer, Alfred. If
you cannot drive in with me, Johnson must. I
have determined to tell you. It is cruel; it is
d lfgerous. Oh, your trouble has made you
heartless.”
“I’ve come to tell you we’ll start on Friday.”
“What?”
“ Yes; we’ll quit Lillibar for a lodging in Pad-
dington, say—and curse the day I ever advanced
money to Will Osborne, or took the hell-hole off
his hands.”
“ But you needn’t have taken the place, Alf.”
“That’s right! That’s just what a man’s got
to expect. 1 lent him money. When he was
broke I took the place off his hands. I gave him
£lOO to make a new start on. I married you
when—”
“ Oh, Alf ! Alf ! ” Her hands went to her face,
and with tears streaming through them she walked
very wearily into the house.
“ Kaak ! ” said the crow from the dead wilga,
and half a hundred rabbits scurried away to the
banks of the dry creek. A whirl of red dust got
up between the house and the hut, and eddied
around the Long Fellow with his swag up. The
man from the bank had paid off all but the regular
hands two hours after he came on the station.
* * * *
After the dismal dinner at the home station the
man from the bank was courteous, sympathetic
and firm. There was a painful look of apprehen-
sion on his face as he rose to accept the lady’s
apologies for an early retirement. He said, “Mi s.
Harris will have a trying journey.”
“Yes; she will go to her mother’s place in
town. 4nd now let us get to the real weight of
this business. ”
“ I thought it had been made plain.”
“ I thought it was to depend on your report.”
“ You knew the state of your account."
“ I’ve overdrawn £3OOO odd, but it’s all gone in
improvements.”
“ I find the rabbits worse now than three months
ago, the stock decreased 50 per Cent., and the wool
will not pay half the interest due. ”
“ Another £5OOO would see me through.”
“The bank will not advance another pound.”
“ Nice institutions your banks are ! I stood to
a friend first. I chucked-up all my own prospects
next, and Came out here to pull this place through.
1 married like a fool.” (The man from the bank
raised his evebrows, but was silent.) “ I’ve sacri-
ficed myself at every turn, and now —and now-—”
He went over to the whisky.
The Long Fellow made out to Hogan’s—6o
miles on the saady road. He did it in tvvo days,
shaking off the rest of the push, and leaving two
w lyside shanty-men malignantly disconsolate,
lie sat under Hogan’s verandah as the sun was
setting on Friday, and was sober, though he had
spent a shilling or two. “If anybody’s coming
to-night we’ll see ’em when the plains lift,” said
the boss.
The Long Fellow walked a hundred yards out
and looked west. The miracle of the evening
began. The heated atmosphere, with its narrow
horizon and strange refractions, was gathered up.
Black lines of timber appeared, and a long sand-
ridge, with serrated crest, where five minutes
earlier had been nothingness. A violet glow over
the dull, red plain took the place of the steely-blue
mirage, and five miles along the track appeared a
moving dust-cloud. It came on rapidly. A two-
horse buggy emerged, the driver flogging tired
horses. They pulled up at the house. The man
flung the reins across a woman’s lap and came
down. Her hand just touched the leather. Her
head seemed nodding involuntarily, and two light
points in her veil flashed with each movement.
They were the eyes in that jet crow’s head. Her
face was sallow, with leaden lines, and her eyes,
save for the pain in them, dead.
The man came to-the buggy. “ Come on,” said
he—“ come on ! ”
“ Could you get a chair or a box ? ”
With a snort the man went into the house and
returned with a chair.
The landlord slewed the buggy-wheels. “Take
care now—take care ! ”
She reached the verandah and staggered into
the house. The man kicked the chair aside, and
followed.
The Long Fellow sat in the kitchen an hour
later, and the landlord’s wife stood by the table.
“ Five-and-twenty years I have been in the back-
blocks,” said she, “and never saw the like of
that yet.”
“ Is she bad ? ”
“ Bad ! —the poor, pitiful thing. I tell ye it’s
life or death for her, and within eight-and-forty
hours ; and he ”——
“That him talking?”
“ Talking—yes ! Tollin’ his troubles. His
troubles ! ”
The Long Fellow went out. A full moon was
just over the timber, and all the ungodly land
scape was glorified.
“ I didn’t mean this,” said he to himself. “No,
by God, I didn’t mean this.”
He walked awhile, but the grace and peace of
the moonlight could do nothing with the horror
of his mind. He returned to the kitchen and the
missus.- “ VVhat ought to be done about that ? ’
“She ought to be in her bed, an’ho away for
the doctor.”
“ Why don’t he go ? ”
“ Because he’s a fool, and she’s nothing to say
but ‘ Let me get to my mother.’ ”
“Tell the boss I want him, but not the other
fellow.”
His money jingled, and she moved off. He took
the landlord out into the moonlight and pulled a
roll of notes from a pocket next his skin. They
talked awhile, notes passed, and in a few minutes
the Long Fellow was across the best handicap
horse in the district.
“Don’t take him past the twenty mile. Billy
Brown is sure to find you anothe . He 11 carry
you right through, but it’d founder him sure ”
“Don’t you let them move till I come back,”
was the reply, and therewith the bit of blood was
let out.
The sun was half way down on the next after-
noon when two horsemen came pounding along
the road, midway between the township and
Hogan’s. As they rode the} 7 were aware of a
strange figure approaching. He was dressed in
white, and hatless. The Long Fellow readied
out and rode at him. “You i denial fool ! ”
“Thedoctor? Doctor! Wife! Throat!” He
gasped out the words and put a hand to his
parched tongue,
A water-bottle was between his lips ten secon Is
later, and when he had drunk, the Long Fellow
fairly flung him into the saddle. “That’s the
doctor. Now ridfe.”
The two horsemen rode hard ; the footman
followed on their tracks, pondering and repenting
as he went. He had not much to blame himself
with, maybe. She had left him when his sun was
in decline. She had given herself to another,
whose future the world said was coming like the
tide. She had entered into possession ; he had
gone out to drift. She became my la l.y of the
home station; he the Long Fellow of the hut.
And yet she had been Lily—Lil. And for her he
had sought to make Lillibar. For her he had
begun to make a garden in the wilderness. For
her he sought to realise such a dream as has been
the will-o’-the-wisp of many a Western man. A
winter home out there amid all the bounty and
the beauty of the West ; a summer nest down by
the Sydney waters. His head was bowed as he
pondere 1 ; he looked up with a shudder. The
actual West was all about him—the glare of a
sinking sun that seemed scarce a mile away ; dust
in his nostrils and eyes, every atom laden with the
stench of carrion; blasted scrub standing like
stubble sprouted in dead skin ; and a grey lizard
clinging to the trunk of a solitary tree. Ahead of
him, horror. He knew it.
“ VVhatmiketh Heaven? This niaketh Hell,”
said he, and then with a chuckle that was not
wholly sane: “The earth is the Lord’s and the
fullness thereof. All of it, all of it.”
• * * *
The tracks turned off as they came abreast a
belt of timber a mile away. He kne\v they would.
Down by the timber he could see a white figure at
madman’s antics.
The horses were hitched-up. The doctor stood
bareheaded by a scrub patch, yards in the timber.
Flies were thick in the air, ants on the earth.
“ Where’s the buggy ? ”
“Horses bolted when I lifted her out. My
God, Osborne, why did you send me out here?”
“Kaak,” cried the crow from a dead limb over
the scrub patch.
The doctor came towards them. He carried his
hat and did not trouble to brush the flies away.
He answered Osborne’s look with a nod and
turned to Harris. “ Your wife’s dead—you were
mad to attempt such a journey.”
“She would come, and wasn’t it enough to drive
any man mad ? ”
“I should have thought it would have been
enough to keep any man sane.”
The antics were resumed with speech appro-
priate, and the doctor turned to the other man.
“It will be bott-r to make a grave here. Some-
one must wa'eh.”
“ I shall watch.”
The two horsemen rode away west. He made
fires right round the scrub patch and walked
between them.
There was a raw red mound beside the scrub
next day, and half a dozen people parted on the
road a mile away.
Years later the Long Fellow was pretty well
known at all the stations of the farthest West:
“A bit touched and talking to himself more than
was wholesome, and playing at night witli a gim-
crack crow-pin, but a devil to work and wouldn’t
hurt a fly.”
Alf Harris was in a town billet again, and when
any man mentioned the West, would say, “Don’t
talk about it. I’d be £lO,OOO a better man if I’d
never seen it.”
FRANK MYSERS.


FACE TO FACE WITH FACTS
Most all the Aches of Kidney Ills start
with
FA CTS.
A lame back is a bad back.
A weak back is a bad back.
An aching back is a bad back.
Bad Backs come from sick
kidneys.
Sick kidneys cause backache.
Backache is the first step.
The first ache of kidney ills.
Urinary troubles come next.
Disturb your night’s rest.
Annoy you all day.
Dangerous Diabetes sets in.
Then Bright’s Disease.
The end is near then.
J 1 Bad Back.
Every Case of Back-
ache, Diabetes, or
any Kidney Ills can
be Cured by
MORE FACTS .
Don't pay to experiment.
Kidney trouble is too serious.
Delays are dangerous.
Experiment means delay.
Take a remedy that’s endorsed.
But get good endorsement.
A stranger’s word isn’t sufficient.
Hard to prove testimonials from a
distance.
Take the word of people you know.
Of friends and neighbors.
Easy to prove such evidence.
Ask them about it.
Local testimony is the best.
DOAN’S
Backache Kidney Pile.
No other Kidney Remedy has ever received such emphatic
endorsement. Read the testimony of
SYDNEY PEOPLE.
FROM LEICHHARDT.
Mr. J. Cameron, 297 Balmain road, Leichhardt, this city,
says *—“For a few years I had been trying to get the upper hand
of kidney trouble, but all my efforts were futile until I used Doan’s
Backache Kidney Bills. I used to have pains in the back, and
these were so bad I had to lie about pretty well helpless, which
will give you a better idea of the serious condition I was in than
any other illustration. I had begun to imagine that it was notin
v .he power of medicine to bring me relief, when I got a box of
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills at Newman’s Pharmacy, King-
treet. This remedy began to do that which so many had failed
to do. A few doses gave me an immense amount of relief, and in
a little while cured me completely of pains in the back, and put
my Iridnevs in perfect, order. I can give these pills a first - rate
rocomineudftUon } I know others who have been cured by : air
use.”
[FROM GLEBE
Mr. William Greenland, who is a printer, lives at 22 Forsyth-
street, Glebe. He says :—“ For some considerable time I suf-
fered from backache and kidney complaint, having a heavy aching
pain in the small of my back just over the kidneys, which troubled
me a good deal. The secretions were very much disordered, con-
taining a large amount of sediment. I procured some of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills at Newman’s Pharmacy in King-street,
and now I have pleasure in stating that they did me a great deal
of good, completely removing my trouble and putting the kidneys
in a healthy state. Although I had previously tried a number of
other remedies I failed to get any benefit from them. I have
recommended Doan’s Pills to a number of people, some of whom
I know have tried them, and, like myself, nave derived great
benolit from them.”
J3£TJ3)
*»**»-i
mu iiiiiiiiiuniiiiiiiimmim
>$
&
N
w
X
@
II?
a
<5
s;
?8
■iY
•••■:.
!*
>:*.
••--VA
Get what yon ask for. Get DOAN’S.
Don’t accept something just as good. All
Chemists sell DOAN’S Backache Kidney
Bills and will give you what you call for.
Some may attempt to substitute an article
they make more profit on. Insist on
having DOAN’S. Price 2s. 9d. per box
(six boxes 15s. 3d.). Posted on receipt
of price by Poster McClellan Co., 76
Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Our New Selection.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Harvest-time : Dave and Joe and Bill carting
bariey off the house-paddock. Dad poking round
on Ins old mare annoying the cows.
Dave, in the act of heaving a sheaf into the
dray, paused and looked up :
“ Who".s th’ cove? ” he said, wonderingly.
Joe, from the top of the load, stared "in the
direction of the house; Bill, on the opposite side
to Dave, walked round and took observations.
Bill, always dog-tired, never lost an opportunity
to recover.
“ Dunno,” Joe said; “they’re all shakin’ his
hand, anyway.”
“Another parson, I s’pose,” Dave groaned, ap-
prehensively. Dave disliked the clergy. Its pre-
sence always made him unhappy, and one of it in
the house would almost drive him from home.
And parsons were never in any hurry to leave our
place now. Different from Shingle Hut. It was
rarely that they remained there for a meal; never
when there was a well-butchered leg of a kan-
garoo hanging under the verandah. And Dad
mostly saw that one was dangling there whenever
a parson was reckoned along. And he would tear
it down and heave it into the grass the moment
the pilot. had left. Dad was a wise man. But
nothing is mentioned of him in Proverbs.
“His nag’s poor enough for a parson’s,” Joe
chuckled ; “on’y y’ never see ’em with two —one’s
alez dead ’fore there’s another.’’
Bill laughed a stiff, ready- nade laugh— to en-
courage the conversation and prolong the “re-
covery.” But Dave wired in with the fork in
silence.
To gain time Bill asked Dave a useless’question.
He said:
“ ’Ow’d yer like t’ be a parson, Dave ?”
Had it been anyone else, Dave might have com-
mitted some violence. But he always got on well
with Bill. He only turned his eyes on him in
forgiveness.
The stranger, wagging his head and working
his hands and arms like a temperance orator, was
walking between mother and Sarah, both hatless
and holding newspapers above their heads—to-
wards the house. They seemed to know him, and
listened eagerly to things he had to say.
Joe couldn’t make him out. Bill volunteered
to run up and see what he was. Then Joe
grinned. He remembered being like Bill once
himself.
The stranger tossed a greasy bundle he had
taken from the saddle on to the verandah, and the
next moment was striding over the stubble
towards the dray. He carried his head high, his
hat well back, and walked like a person not afraid
of trespassing.
“I know that stride,” Dave said, thoughtfully,
and stared hard.
The man drew near. His hair and whiskers
were long and wild, and running to seed.
Bill giggled and stared ; Dave stood thinking of
that “stride.”
In the tongue of the cheerful aboriginal the
man called out things as he approached. Joe
didn’t understand, but he disapproved of them,
and yelled back, “Get y’r’air cut.” And Bill
sniggered, and, crouching down, took the pitch-
fork with him under the dray. But Dave sud-
denly cast his av/ay.
“Bless me! it’s Dan!” he exclaimed, and
damaged several barley stooks, tumbling over
them to reach him.
Bill crawled out from under the dray without
the pitchfork, and rolled his eyes about. Joe slid
off the top and tore his trousers, and dragged
half the load down on top of himself.
“ Dan!” each murmured, following Dave.
;• Dan it was. The same old Dan that Dad twice
hunted from home, but older, shabbier, more
useless, and more dilapidated.
He shook Dave’s hand with fervor, but he didn’t
know Joe from Bill or Bill from Joe till Dave
mentioned their names.
Bill looked pleased. He felt proud of Dan.
Often he had heard of him, and he used to wonder
if he would ever see him, and now all at once he
stood before him. And as Dan proceeded rapidly
to account for fourteen years of absence, Biil
stared him all over, and hugged the ground near
his careless, greasy form.
Before you could scarcely think, Dan had
plunged into the back country, fought several
fights with naked blacks ; dashed into a scrub in
pursuit of brumbies on a horse called Silverstar,
coming out without a stitch on but his boots and
belt; broken his right leg three times in the same
place ; lost £3OO on the Cooper, and was rejoicing
on his way to Sydney in charge of a thousand wild
C.O. B. bullocks.
Bill’s breath threatened to leave him. His mind
wasn’t nearly largo enough to hold the impres-
sions Dan made on it. Even Joe—Joe who was
always cool enough to calculate—was carried
away, and a lively longing to see some “outback”
life filled his soul. But Dave was only moved to
a smile. I Dave remembered Dan.
“ Let’s go up to th’ house,” Dave said; and as
they all walked on Dan continued :
“ I’ve seen life ! Fancy humpin’ a swag from
Nudgee Nudgee to Norman ton —500 miles—with-
out a boot on or a bob about y’, and the last stage
havin’ t’ pull off and fight two infernal big Danes
fer three hours fer your own water-bag? An’”
(pausing to breathe) “after knockin’ both ’em out,
t’ have t’ pour every drop o’ water down their
blanky throats t’ bring ’em round !”
A thrill of excitement went through Bill. He
swung his clenched fist at the imaginary forms of
the Danes and caught Dave in the small of the
back.
“Damn you,” Dave yelled— :“damn y’,” and
sprang on Bill, and squeezed his neck, and there
must have been trouble only Bill managed to gasp
that he “ didn’t m -mean t’.”
They reached the house just as Dad arrived at
the steps on the mare.
“ Don’t—see if he knows me,” Dan said,
silencing Bill, who began yelling to announce the
home-coming of the heir.
Dad stared hard from the party approaching
him to the horses left unprotected in the dray—
and scowled, and looked ugly.
Dan separated himself from the others.
“Doesn’t know me from a crow—told y’ he
wouldn’t,” he said, saluting Dad as though he
(Dad) were a colonel with gold lace and a wooden
leg.
“ I don’t know who y’ are, man,” Dad answered,
gruffly, and was about to revile Dave for wasting
time, when Dan bowed like a man winding water,
and said —
“Your fust-born . . . Daniel, sir . . . Daniel
Damascus Rudd.”
Dad nearly fell off the mare.
“ Dan /” he blurted out, and urged the old
mare towards the prodigal and stretched out his
hand. But all at once he checked himself. He
remembered he had kicked Dan out and never
wanted to see him again. He changed color.
Then it was that Dan showed himself a
strategist.
“Not a word—not one syllable, ” he said,
in grave tones, seizing Dad’s hand without a
blush. “ [ know what’s in your mind, exactly.
Say nothing—it’s past. Let it slide. .. . You
turned me out, that’s true; but I don’t mind—l
deserved it. But I went—l obeyed like a man,
didn’t I? And now (Dan paused, so that mother
and all standing round might hear), and now I’m
back (paused again), back a wiser (another pause),
a better (here Dan smote himself hard on the
thigh where his pocket had been, before he tore it
out to wear on his foot) and (elevating his voice) a
richer ma i —wanting no one’s favor, fearing
nobody’s frown ”
Dan was a rare speaker.
Dad never before displayed so much agility in
dismounting, except when he fell off.
He gripped Dan by both hands. Large tears
like hailstones gathered and broke in his big eyes,
and one smothered sob like a colt choking was all
we heard. It was too much for us. We stared at
our feet and felt we should have been dead. If
there was one thing more than another we couldn’t
stand it was Dad blubbering.
‘ ‘ Never mind” —Dan said in tones of forgiveness,
holding a hand high above Dad’s head—“never
mind — .. . Fer me own part it’s fergotten long
enough ago, ’n’ I’m back ; ’n’ as I hinted before—
well-off. Dad, well-off .. . independent .” And he
looked down on Dad and smiled.
Dan was an object-lesson in filial affection.
Dave smiled, too, and went back to work.
Dave smiled because he knew what a beautiful
liar Dan was.
* * * *
Dan followed Dad inside and had something to
eat. He ate everything Sarah placed before him.
Then he sat back, and all the rest of the afternoon
talked to Dad and mother, and admired the furni-
ture, and smoked, and spat. But he didn’t spit on
the floor. He rose every time and went to the
door and did it on the clean boards of the veran-
dah that had just been scrubbed.
Dan confided to Dad his plans for the future.
He’d had enough outback life, he said, and
intended putting a bit of money into a farm and
settling-down. If he could get a suitable place—
about eighteen hundred acres with water—he’d
start dairying, milk a hundred cows, feed them on
lucerne, and fatten wethers and steers beside.
Dad said there was a big thing in it and knew
the very place Dan required—“ Curry’s,” he said ;
“joining me; 2000 acres; creek runnin’ right
through it; £2 10s. an acre.”
“ We’ll have a look at it ” Dan said reflectively.
Approaching tea-time Dan apologised to mother
for the sad condition of his clothes. “Fact is,”
he remarked, “me wardrobe’s cornin’ down be
train, so I’m afraid y’ll have to put up with me as
I am till it’s here.”
Mother said if he liked he could put on some of
Dave’s for a change. Dan thought he would.
He put on a full suit of Dave’s, besides a shirt and
collar, and came to tea a new man. He put them
all on the next day, too, and never took them off
any more.
• * • •
For nearly a month Dad accompanied Dan
through the district inspecting farms that were
for sale, and at night they would sit together on
the verandah and discuss the advantages and dis-
advantages of each. And when Dad would advise
Dan to buy a certain one, Dan would disagree and
express a preference for some other, always con-
cluding with “Better t’ wait a bit ’fore decidin’.”
* « • *
Dan was going to give J 25 to a young lady, who
called one day collecting for the hospital, but all
his money was in the Savings Bank, and be hadn't
any change about him. “Worst of banks,” he
said, “can’t run to them when y’ want to.”
But mother had plenty in the house, and offered
him the sum till he could draw some of his wealth.
Dan accepted it, and went to the verandah and
gave the young lady a half-sovereign he found in
Dave’s trouser pocket.
“ Alwez like t’ give t’ th’ hospital,” he said, re-
turning to mother. “ Altergether, I s’pose I’ve
given hundreds o’ pounds, now.”
* • * *
Mother was delighted with the way Dan had
turned out, and was anxious to know the property
he meant to buy. She questioned Dad about it
one morning.
“ I don’t know,” Dad said, angrily ; “I don’t
know what th’ devil he’s goin’t’ do.”
* * * •
Dad began to treat Dan badly again. He
showed feelings of distrust towards him, and re-
fused to accompany* him any more to inspect pro-
perties. Dan took offence at it. He went away
one morning to buy Curry’s place ; and when we
heard of him again he was working among the selec-
tors at M‘Catta’s Corner, about eight miles away.
Dan never bought any farm ; but he settled
down. He married Mary MacSinith ; had a great
wedding, too; and was living comfortably and
happily on his wife’s people. And he promised
to do well, till one day, about three months after
his marriage, Mrs. Geraghty dragged her daughter
Polly, who was crying, into Mac Smith’s place,
and, within hearing of the whole family, told Dan
he wasn’t a man or he would have married Polly
long ago, and asked him what he meant to do.
Dan was imperturbable. Hs laughed and said,
Git out! ” and would have argued himself
innocent, but his wife —the very person you’d
expect to stand up and fight for him, and decline
to hear anything the Mac Smiths would say—
believed it all, and flew into tears and hysterics,
and—Dan, of course, was thrown on the world
again.
« • * *
As compensation for Dan’s infidelity,- his wife
rushed to the store and got a cart-load of goods in
his name. Dan got the bill. It made him rest-
less. He went to Dave for advice. Dave read
the bill, and when he came to the last item looked
up and asked :
“What did she want with twenty-four pair o’
stockin’s ? ”
“Dunno,” Dan said; “she must be a blessed
santerpee. ”
Q.
STEELE RUDD.


m
Terrible Condition. Blood Filled with
All Remedies but One Failed.
2^
N 's=3‘
m
Mr. H. Feder, of Prospect, South
Australia, sends us his photograph
and says:
“About two'months ago I began to
feel badly all over. I was easily made
tired. I lost my appetite and was very
nervous. In a few days my arms and
neck were all broken out with large
boils. For weeks my suffering was
terrible. I tried remedy after remedy,
but without relief. A friend told me it
was not my skin but. my blood that
needed help, and urged me to try Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. He said he knew'many
people who had been cured by it. I
bought a bottle, and I began to feel
better at once. My appetite returned,
my food digested better, and I felt
greatly encouraged. Before the bottle
was all used my blood was pure and
the boils had entirely disappeared.”
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Boils, rashes, pimples, eruptions, eczema, etc., are hut evidences of trouble
down deep in the blood. Don’t treat the skin. Treat the blood. Take Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla, the medicine that has been curing impure blood for 60 years.
When your blood is pure £he skin will be smooth and healthy. And you will
feel brighter, better in every way.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla isn’t like other Sarsaparillas. It is made differently, con-
tains stronger medicines. Don’t experiment with imitations. r
AYER 9 S Sarsaparilla
Makes the Blood Pure and Rich
’• • .
Keep your bowels in good condition by taking Ayer 7 s Pdls*
. 1 27
YEARS’ SUCCESS
AS
the UNIVERSAL REMEDY foe
Coughs, Colds,
Asthma* Bronchitis,
influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Hoarseness, &c
HAS MADE
S
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY TO EVERYBODY.
Important Notice:
substitution.- There a/re so many imitations
of this successful, and therefore popular, remedy that ±
it is of the utmost importance you should use the u
word “ OWBRIDGE ' ' when haying Lung Tonic,
and TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE,
Prepared, by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, M.P.S., Chemist, Hull.
Sold everywhere in bottles, at Is. lid.
2*. 9d., 48. 6d., & 11s., by all
Colonial Medicine Vendors.
COPYRIGHT.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST—SUPPER.
THE ONLY WAY
TO BE CURED of Weakening and Debilitating Diseases
is to obtain the PROPER REMEDIES. We have the
REMEDY that will CURE YOU. So CONFIDENT are
we of this, that we will send a trial course FREE OF
CHARGE and abide by the result. Send your symptoms
and prove our statement. Address — Botanic Institute
Victoria Chambers, E!izabeth-st., Sydney.
The Bulletin
Bulletin Writers.
6d.
nee,
Cloth, 300 pages
SOLE
Edwards, Dunlop &
DISTRIBUTING AG
Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
gd
f
gdf
<L
the remedy for the people.
recom in ended by friends to
friends
not pushed by doubtful methods,
deserving of their popularity.
now enjoying a greater success
than ever.
still worth a guinea a box.
#
s
m
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
The Langston Regenerator
WILL CURE
YOU
Its effects are almost instantaneous and the good results go
on increasing from day to day.
Health, Vigor, Strength
for all who
desire it.
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Roval College of Surgeons, England, permanently located in
Melbourne since 1886, originator of the Regenerator treatment, has so
perfected his method that it has revolutionised the art of Healing,
and it can almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable
cases.
You a Sufferer
from bad health in
any of its many forms?
Do you feel nervous, fretful, timid and lack the power of will and
action ? Are you subject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping-, and subject to,fits of melancholy? Are your kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a
disordered condition ? Do you feel weak, nervous and generally debilitated? If so, do not fail to have the
• case. Send at once for full information and question blanks.
Seek tb.e Truth, it costs
All communications are considered sacredly confidential. Address—
M.R.G.S., Eng , cor RusselU Coilins Sts., Melbourne
nr
gd
fg
dr
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
M
IRISH MOSS
x SiSSsSRaEkt
CH9
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.


FOR
WATERPROOF GOATS
RUBBER BOOTS
« GOLOSHES
PERDRI AU and COMPANY,
(between Bond & Hunter Streets) 0 George Street, Sydney
60
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ c. E3LDRI3DGE & CO ,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STBJJJST, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Conntry Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
BiWUiHIiWWiUMiI
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
gd
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
32 & 34 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
*
For all Services kept in Stock.
SendL for Catalogue.
REPRESENTED
IN
4>vi
Qk
«s
4 USTRALIA
BY
'COPS^UEHT
ggs^?v3«a
a
iiMniiiMliilHti
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.
SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE.
c*
%
&
PERTH
and
COOLGARDIE.
aaiuavo smooxs
KEMP’S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s back as long as required. It will NOT injure the wool. It will dissolve out under
the ordinary scouring process.
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
mm, cmuHE * co., isinwc
BLACK, RET), and BLUE (in 8-gallon Cases):
PRICE IN
MELBOURNE
SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.)
BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.)
HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.)
4/-
4/-
4/-
4-
per Gallon.
' '
Portable Drills, Radial Drills, Drill Presses, Lathes, Planing
Machines, Slotting Machines, Punch and Shears, Steam
Hammers, Pipe Screwing Machines, Metal Saws, etc., etc.
■it
'
.
f
Ingersoll-Sergeant Rock Drills and Air Compressors, Knowles Pumps, Gates
Rockbreakers, Roger Rolls, Vertical and Horizontal Engines and Boilers of
all kinds, Engineers’ Fittings and Mine and Mill Supplies.
WRITE FOR PRICES
AND PARTICULARS.
60 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
m
'
Ml
itm
"rr-'
Bushman
Harry Morant
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
and Buccaneer
By FRANK RENAR.
>rice
>oBt
? ree.
¥
RDS, DUNLOP & CO.,
SYDNEY.^
h. p. uum s to.
Machinery Merchants,
Melbourne & Sydney.
HAVE IN STOCK-
Blake's Steam Pumps.
Fay s Woodworking Machinery.
Mundy’s Hoisting Engines-
Empire Co.’s Laundry Machinery-
American “All Steel” Pulleys-
Harris ‘‘Champion” Lubricating Oils.
Mason Reducing Valves-
Ludlow Sluice Valves-
Korting's Injectors and Ejectors-
Tanite Emery Wheels.
The Plica [ubricant Co., South Shields, Eng
Lubricants and Packings for all purposes. Patent Mica Grease saves 90% in cost of labi'ication_ L _an(j_keep3
bearings perfectly cool. Patent Mica Packings last twice as long as ordinary, an d_ajg_2s%_lighter ; __Theydo,
not score the rods, but put a mica surface on them, similar in appearance to electro-plate.
Sole Agent for Australasia:
R. A. HERVEY.
Depot, 171 Clarence-st., Sydney, N.S.W
GET A GRIP OF this fact.
THE ATLAS PIPE WRENCH
rg
away
dg
A REALLY SPLENDID TOOL.
WON’T LOCK ON THE PIPE.
10in., ss. 9cl. ; 18in., 10s. ; 24in., 15s. ; 36in., 325. 6d.
Easily Adjusted.
, EaLOXTSieSS or
N. CUTHRIDCE, Ltd.,
71 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10h3. .^CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and’ carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
HARt/y
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL om *v»s> n <*
Kilcla Railway Station and Gable Trams. Lartrest HoW
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE T artstp fr
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week
