

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY
BEAVER STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity."
The Lancet .
R. G. WATKINS GO.,
107 Kent street;, Sydney,
—FOB— * m m ,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE. |
MlHilll
EUSTON’S Compound Dredge Engine
MEDICAL CERTIFICATE-
“Ararat (Victoria), 25 th Aug., 1902.
“<Doringthe past few years Eczema has become of very
frequent occurrence, especially iri children. In the treat-
ment of this troublesome affection the usual medicinal
remedies failed in many cases to give relief, and I was very
pleased to have a new preparation, named ‘ Oleac,’ pub into
my hands for trial. I can recall to my mind three cases of
children inwhich the usual remedies had mo beneficial
effect, and the application of ‘ Oleac ’ according to the
printed directions removed all the irritation of the skin.
I have also-heard of many adults using the * Oleac ’ with
great benefit.— JAME S STSHitAL, Surgeon, &c., Ararat ”
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin writers. Cloth, 300 pages ;
price, 48. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
SOLE DISEEEBUTnfG AGENTS :
EDWARDS, DDNLBP & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
GIBSON, BATTLE &C° Kt t street, SYDNEY
Have in Stock and to arrive, the following;: Boston, Proctor & Co.’s Compound Dredge Engines and Boilers, Centrifugal
Pumps, Steel Wire Ropes, Bucket Lip Steel, Tyre Steel, Mild Steel, Manganese Steel for Pins and Bushes, &c.
Buckets, Grab Hooks, Links, Grab Hook Points, Tumblers, &c., made to order. OSBORN’S STEEL;CASTINGS.
ENGINES & BOILERS, &C., FOR GOLD DREDGING
“HERVEY’S RACKAROCK”
17 Years’ Unbroken Record as a Standard Australian Explosive. Cor. CLARENCE & KIWC STS., SYDNEY
THORNES
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
HOBART.
—-*B£s;
Radley’s Orient Hotel.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(Pimt Grade).
J. A. TURNER > - Proprietor.
Tawny Port
Invalid Port
Golden Sherry
Y.O. Frontignac
Rich Constantia
h
No. 0 Claret
No. 1 Claret
Cbablis
Tokay
Muscadine
Championship of Australia, Melbourne,
DIGESTION
Idkl
PIONEER
ĥ
LEATHER
BELT! NCI
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2J 3 3J 4 5 « 8 10 12 inch.
-77 -/9 -/10J 1/- 1/2 1/6 1/11 2/8 3/4 4/-
V 2 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 2/11 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
J. G. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
EDJiAVANI V.ifsiSS
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDISON”& SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch : 16 Carrington-street,
WYWYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland l)epot-—Central Building's, Edward-st., Brisbane
es.
ħ
The Clyde Engineering C°r. Lt
h
Desiccating Plants.
Hopper Waggons, &c.
PROOF
ĥ
Head Office:
10 BLICH ST., SYDNEY
ħ
The Lancet states:
‘A SOUND, HONEST BRANDY, which
our analysis and examination show
to be of a FRAGRANCE, PURITY and
QUALITY SECOND TO NONE. ”
h
ĥ
A NICE PRESENT.
The New Combination PIN-
CUSHION, THIMBLE & REEL
HOLDER, nickel plated, plush
top. Clamps on to any table
by means of a spring-. Price,
only 2a ; post free.
Btar Novelty Company,
239-231 Colfins-st.,
Melbourne.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—*
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. Oitv
i-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
WHEN buying a KEROSENE GAS STOVE insist
on getting a noiseless
ħ
JUPITER
The Very Latest
Invention.
Burns Noiselessly,
Without Smell
or Smoke,
Perfectly Safe.
Obtained. First Prize
wherever exhibited.
Stocked by all Leading Hardware Merchants and
Storekeepers.
Sole Agents for Australasia—
Nelson and Robertson,
17 LOFTUS ST., SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vol 23.—N0. 1190.]
[Saturday. December 6, 1902.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE LATEST BOOKS AT
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Furness, Borneo Head Hunters, 42s 6d, postage 2s Gd.
Iredell (Dr. C.L.M.), Something- About Voice, 2s, p. 3d.
Churchill (W.S.), The River War (ch. edt.), 12s Gd, p. Is 2d,
Junor, Richard Brice : Adventurer, 2s Gd & 3s Gd, p. Gd.
Sherlock, Your Uncle Lew, 2s Gd & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
MaeMahon, Sueh as Have Erred, 2s Gd & 3s Gd, p. 6d.
Harrison, Princess of Hills, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. Gd.
Twentieth Century Atlas, 255, postage 2s.
Cunningham, Gospel of Work, 2s 6d, p. 4d.
Hobson, Imperialism, 12s 6d, p. Is 3d.
Wilson (Augusta), A Speckled Bird, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Besant (Sir Walter), No Other Way, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Baring-Gould, Quillet, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p.’dd.
Jepson, The Sentimental Warrior, 2s6d &3s 6d, p. 6d.
7 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) &at Melbourne. Adelaide, Brisbane & London
AUSTRALIA’S
■*-—SWEET SINGER.
Victor J. Daley’s “At Dawn arid Dusk,”
handsomely bound, makes a fine presentation
volume to friends abroad. Post free from Bul-
letin office, ss. 4d.
“pie Bulletin” Reciter.
> You can’t be Amusing
Without it. ...
Humorous Exciting Stories in Stirring Verse
... suitable for Recitation.
Price 5/- ; Post .Free from Bulletin Office, 5/4.
“Ok Bulletin” Story Book
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN'
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
the Best Short Stories
of two Decades.
nothing better typical
of Australian tetters.
J* «5* J*
_______
VIVID
VIVID
VIVID
VIVID
BRIGHT
BRIGHT
BRIGHT
BRIGHT
RACY
RACY
RACY
RACY
Price 4/6; Post Free from Bulletin Office, 5/-.
For tlxo LXJJSTGS, th.B THROAT, theVOICB.
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
.7
o
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
li. The Trachra or windpipe.
('■ The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
/>■ A lobe of one of the Jungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
LINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
SON’S EUiIENiHOL JUJUBES (Registered)
* , Contain AO cocaine or other poisonous clrntj 9
SOL ?^ Y ALL CHEM| STS, in Tins, Is6d ; from the Proprietor, fi. HUDSO” Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland
Agents. S^ampS ’ S^ De * ot : 5 and 7 <JUE«f'S t’LACK, and FKLTON, GWMWADEIift,
THE RED PAGE .
Some Bad Verse.
THE desire of man to be a poet is, like the
vermiform appendix, the survival of some-
thing 1 which probably had its use one day.
Ifc is also a desire which has survived in most
cases the capacity for its fulfilment. Probably nine
persons out of ten attempt “ poetry ” of somd sort
at some age, infancy, amoraney, or dotage. Fortu-
nately a natural modesty—a very proper instinc-
tive feeling that one’s poetry is a sacred thing, not
to be exposed before profane eyes—keeps the great
bulk of poetic effort to a limited and appreciative
circle of one. Another great mass is timidly ex-
hibited only to a lover or an intimate. There re-
mains as a residue the “ poetry ” which is sent in
to the papers. A little, marvellously little,
of that justifies the desecration of the writer’s
mental hearth, the profanation of the inmost
domesticities of his soul, and is added to the
golden store of the world’s accepted poetry. Much
more is graceful verse, the interesting disclosures
of the results of flirtation with the Muses, and it
helps an occasional newspaper to be readable.
Very much more is the ludicrous expression of
bathetic ineptitude, and the stale re-hash of
butchered thoughts. Of this the quantity sent to
The Bulletin (and probably other papers) is
enormous.
Sometimes bad verse is really pathetic in its
badness linked with its obvious sincerity ; some-
times it has a real humor in its unconscious
comedy; most often it is maddening for its
sliameless plagiarism or its wearying common-
placeness.
There js only one justification for attempting to
write “ poetry a feeling that one must sing,
that the emotion is too strong for prose, and that
the heart-beats must find response in rhythm
beats. Leaving out of the question “poetry/’ a
writer may also justifiably drop into verse if'he is
reasonably skilful in the use of words, if be has
some ear for music, and if he has an idea which is
best expressed in numbers. Most bad “poetry”
is written because of the misconception that the
bald statement of circumstances in rhyming lines
makes poetry. And that sort of bad stuff is
usually .not even interesting enough to earn a place
m this column of Bad Verse. But occasionally, in
really naive hands, it acquires a certain amount
of humor. This, for instance, from a “poem”
sent in last month—
WHEN DAD GOES FISH IN.
I often chuckle to niyself ,
when dad takes down the rod
And sez I’m goin to the creek
to try and hook a cod
you see him rippin up the ground
where worms are hidden deep
I often wonder that their gosts
dont haunt him in his sleep
and here and there along the Creek
he lifts up bark and logs
If ever you are up our way
come and watch dad ketch frogs
I mostly have to go with him
to carry lines and bait
And I suppose I shouldent kick
it is the hand of fate
but then I often wish that dad would get another mate
I lay beneath a wattle tree
no anglin for me
but I watch dad he lifts the line
so carfully and free
And Just as I am dozing off
I know there something crook
When dad yells out come here, you brat,
Me pants has caught the hook
I rush unto his rescue,
for I sympathise with dad
and when I say you’ve hooked a Shark
my word don’t he get mad
I quickly release the hook
but ere I’ve time to steer
out of his way I mostly get
a beauty on the ear
but dad he makes another start
with worms and nasty things
and I quietly go to sleep again
to dream of angels wings,
and. Just as I’m admiring
visions rangin past in white
I hear dad swearin pretty loud
because the fish wont bite
etc., etc.
Here is a specimen of didactic and scientific
poetry which was sent to this office with evident
great earnestness:
If we persist in violating nature’s laws
Forcing on sea and sky an office which the earth should
perform
As surely as an effect follows a cause
So surely might we expect famine inundation or de-
vastating storm.
If the purification of matter where unpent
Should cause the earth to tremble beneath a blazing sky
What would be the effect if ocean leagued with the air to
resent
Having thrust upon them such an office, the filth of
mortals to purify.
Such a compact entered into amid the booming thunder
of the skies . ,
The moon responsive on her charge relaxing control
The tides released from bondage above their margin rise
And swallow up offending cities whole.
When man usurps the earth’s wondrous power
Is it likely that minor achievements can only prove vain
The earth which transforms the vilest rottenness into the
odor of the flower
Or into the tempting fruit and life supporting grain.
Yet another sample—a bald statement of facts
boldly labelled as “a poem” :
POEM: WHEN YOU ARE “ON THE WALLABY.”
Now tramping it is not the game
That it is cracked up to be,
But you’re not bound down like city life,
That’s consoling—you are free ;
But it ain’t all beer arid skittles,
As many people think ;
For you’ll often walk for miles
Without a drop to drink.
When old Sol shines fiercely on you
With his rays so fierce and strong,
And your tired legs and feet ache
’Till you can’t drag them along,
You welcome night and water,
' For you know here ends your tramp ;
And you set the billy boiling
While you pick a place to camp.
All these have at Jeast the merit of being
ludicrous. The rea,lly maddening samples of bad
verse are those which, unexceptional in rhyme,
metre and grammar,, say nothing new, suggest
nothing new, but, with deadly complacency,
repeat old ideas in old and palsied phrases, An
example (not one of the worst: the worst are so
exasperating that, they can’t be permitted to
remain in the office even for a week):
VOICES OF THE NIGHT.
The moon rides o’er a cloudy sky,
The weary world seems sleeping,
Save for the mopoke’s lonely cry
Its midnight vigil keeping,
k*H?u one w h°se heart is crushed with pain,
Whose soul with sorrow’s burning,
Who’s sought on earth for peace in vain,
To God for pity turning.
It dies away, and all is still,
clouds the moon are veiling)
B hush ! a sound comes from the hill—
The curlew’s mournful wailing.
Like cry of one with grief distrest,
Who mourns a friend departed,
nni? v^en khc world has gone to rest
Then weep the broken hearted.
Now from the gully over there
A loud and weird-like howling
Proclaims the fox has left his lair,
And in search of prey comes prowling.
That cry I hear full many a time,
When shades of night are falling,
As though ’twas speaking some dread crime
And was for vengeance calling.
Oh wild bush cries, how dear to me,
The midnight hath awoken .
For they e’er seem in sympathy
With my own heart nigh broken.
One grateful fact is that the Bad Poet is
generally meek. The good poet, even the good
versifier, has the courage of a lion, the vanity of
a peacock and the skin-resistance of a hippo-
potamus. But the Bad Poet mostly accepts his
rejections with a chastened pity for the ignorance
of the man who is so lacking in sense as to decline
his work. 1 here are exceptions, and occasionally,
when our ideas of politics or of poetry don’t suit
some reader, this sort of thing comes to hand (a
genuine sample received last month):
THE BOSS OF THE BULLETIN.
If you want a low down Liar
i Who lies for the sake of tin
No matter how vile
If it answers his while
That’s the Boss of the Bulletin.
If .vou want a crawling Liar
Who stoops to the lowest thing
If it sells his foul rag
And swells out his bag
That’s the Boss of the Bulletin.
Ciiorus :
If you want a damned imposter
A disgrace to the name of man
Whose glory is shame
Foul slander his game
That’s the Boss of the Bulletin.
Received.
Representative Australians,” by Charles
JNuttall ; a series of very fine lithographs of
Australian public men, and of various Governors
and their wives—who are hardly “Australians,”
representative or otherwise. Mr. Nuttall’s work
is generally excellent, and the printing and bind-
ing idl that can be desired. From G. Robertson
and Co.
“ T he Australian Baby,” by Mrs. Everett Ellis
(Ward, Lock and Co.) This is the age for
children ; the books devoted to them are number-
less. Mrs. Ellis' work is intended to instruct
mothers in the feeding and care of the child from
birth to school-age. Its precepts are sound and
common-sensible.
** The Tale of Peter Rabbit,” by Beatrice Potter
(I. Warner and Co.), a daintily printed and
bound booklet for very young children, with a
not-too-obtrusive moral.
“ Just-so Stories,” by Rudyard Kipling, illus-
trated by himself (Macmillan and Co.). Mr.
Kipling should certainly turn his back resolutely
on any temptations to sing again the war-paeans
of Jingoism, and devote himself to story-telling of
a non-political kind. These “Just-so Stories”
are vivid and humorous, enjoyable by the adult
as well as by the child. The illustrations show
that Kipling could have won a more than respect-
able place in black-and-white art if he had chosen,
(k rom Geo. Robertson and Co.).
l Tide,” by Sarah Greene, another book
ot the vasty of the Basins” type; very well
done m a quiet, religious tone. But interest in
this class of work is dying out; the first tillage in
anew held bnngs the rich harvest which comes
from virgin soil ; subsequent efforts must have
poorer results. (From Geo. Robertson & Co.)
‘The Wings of the Dove,” by Henry James, a
lengthy work m his recent Mereditbian style;
everything said roundaboutly, and, on a final
judgment, the roundaboutness is not justified.
It s all very well to go through a maze to find a
hne castle, but not to come across a villa. (From
Geo. Robertson & Co.) ,
■+.
Louise Mack’s “An Australian Girl in London ”
is, on the whole, disappointing. That the writer
has insight and a vivid power qf description is
shown occasionally ; there is also shown more than
occasionally a flurried effort to be picturesque •
and the sum total of new impression to be gleaned
doesn t justify a book. Images and-similes are
sometimes painfully strained and artificial Of
gums.
I lay with my face against their white kid trunks
smooth as gloves.
Of egos
The ego aches as if it were in a cramped sardine box.
It wants to go off by itself sometimes, in the queer wav
egos have. But the sardine box holds it tight All it
can do is to kick a little.
Of Australians—
,,MJ' countrymen are splendid beings. I love the
thought of them, in their big, grey, felt hats, with their
deep quiet Australian eyes, full of plains and snakes and
great silences.
But there is much of acute observation and many
a bright word-picture to atone for what comes
perilously close to nonsense.
Of riding in a rickshaw in Ceylon :
You feel like a queen. You have a man—a, flesh-and-
blood man—running in harness between the shafts of
your tall black perambulator with two big wheels.
How valuable is the glimpse this gives into
woman’s real soul ! That’s the best feature of
Louise Mack’s work—its candour. Our copy is
from Geo. Robertson & Co.
“Is England to be Ruined?” is an effective
pamphlet for Protection by Robert Shapland, of
London. He points out
We buy or import £415,000,000 worth or thereabout
and export £226,000,000. How can this last ? Such a
state of business could never continue if these were the
only agents at work ; but as I previously stated, interest
on foreign loans comes in and fills the gap. Take this
interest or income from foreign investments away, Eng-
land’s trade would then be found rotten and ruinous.
In other words, England is now living on her fat
-—the fat she accumulated when she was pro-
tectionist. The only remedy, it is argued, is
a prompt resource to Protection.
Herman Merivale, in his “Bar, Stage and
Platform,” sums up Buckle, the man who wrote
the “History of Civilisation” as being about the
most insufferable literary bore he ever had to listen
to “who thundered solemn misstatements by the
hour.”
Jt
One G. S. Guest, a novelist of no importance
himself, talks like a man of common-sense con-
cerning the Corelli class of book writers :
No one seems to write quietly and with consideration
about the great successes—l mean your 100,000 copies,
ladies and gentlemen. Probably the figures bother people,
irritating some so that they can be barely civil, and fasci-
nating others so that they drown themselves in eulogy.
But I should like the great successes to be temperately
explained to me. After all it can hardly be that a book
which is read by several millions has no interesting
quality about it, literary or otherwise . . . Will not
some one, leaving the seat of the scornful, or rising from
the floor of abasement, tell me quickly and coherently
what it all means. My appeal is to the 100,000-copy
writers. One of these successful novels was an attack,
and not a skilful attack, on the Reyn an Catholic Church.
The latest introduces an important -statesman and per-
sonages more illustrious. You or I might attack the
Church or introduce statesmen and illustrious personages
till we were black' in the face, and no one would take
any notice. lam tired of scoffers. I want to understand.
An art so sure of its effects cannot be altogether uncon-
scious. Won’t he or she explain ? .
G. S. Street voices the sentiment of many who,
possesssing enough of cultivated intelligence and
critical faculty to put them beyond the pale of
Marie Corelli’s public, are nevertheless very tired
of the little literary scoffers. The Scoffers pride
themselves on their dislike for the stuff which
millions of less superior persons—“educated,” as
the term goes—can i greedily devour. Yet these
readers of Corelli, Boothby ar.d Co. are for the
most part the very “fools” to whom the scoffers
address their little fictions with the vain hope
of scoring a popular success. “The Sorrows
of Satan,” for instance, caught the fancy
of people not incapable of appreciating the
recognised “ masterpieces ” of English fiction,
although it was intolerable nonsense —on
account of its pretentiousness—to those who
want artistic verisimilitude in any fiction
which has nothing of humor to recommend it.
Mane Corelli and co. possess a certain power of
imposition unattainable by the ordinary novelist.
Is an entire absence of humor essential to these
popular literary impostors, or does the secret of
their art lie in their superior knowledge
0 ... things that • the general public
will, or will not, take seriously ? By some
means dr other they escape the ridicule
of the 100,000 who buy their books, and the
millions who read them. The educated minority,
including their jealous rivals, snort at them, point
out the transparent absurdities in their work, but
don’t attempt to analyse the literary dust which
those successful tricksters throw into the fairly
clear-sighted eyes of ordinary novel readers. The
Corelli an dupes are not so very foolish as the
scoffers affect to think them. They are even
critics themselves sometimes. But they are weak-
minded, short-sighted, or what you will—where a
dozen or two popular novels are concerned. Why ?
The “ Empire’s Greeting ” (very briefly re-
viewed in “ B.” 30/10/’O2) contains an ode by Will
Op lvie - But his address is “Kelso, Scot-
land. Some of the specially Australian grovel
over the Coronation :
Australia greets her King to-day.
The digger fills his pipe with pride,
The squqtter takes a lordlier stride,
And every maiden’s heart is gay.
Notable, also, that 1084 odes were sent it; that
Ist prize went to Rev. Watt, 2nd. ter Rev. Wat-
kins, 3rd to Rev. Wood ; but that Lucy Eveline
Smith, of Dunedin, was bracketed 3rd. Possibly
the very worst of the 73 odes for publication is
that by the Rural Dean of Wollongong, N.S.W. :
England, Scotland, Wales and Ireland
Joined in love are here as one,
With the other members on whose
Empire never sets the sun.
His idea of an Ode is a detailed description of the
scene in the Abbey-
Now the Archbishop, in the words prescribed,
Speaks to the King, who makes rep v, then kneels
And, placing on the Book his hand,'declares : '
“ The tilings which I now here have„protmsed
I will perform and keep.” . . .
And ail the Peers and Peeresses put on
Their coronets, the Bishops don. their caps,
The trumpets blare, drums sound, and guns are heard.
There is a curious-insistence on the idea that a
king is not really a king until the formal corona-
tion ceremony lias been gone through.
Edward is crowned, all’s well with Britain now,
says .someone from Malay. Most curious of all,
however are the requests for Divine aid in smash-
ing up the other fellow.
While in faith we follow Thee, do Thou, the waves divid-
ing, ...
Make the pathway clear for us, but lead our foes astray !
So says a bard whp talks the sentiments of Oliver
Cromwell in the accents of Kipling. But another
couplet might have been Cromwell’s own :
Let all our guns be shotted with Thy word,
And in their throats Thy voice alone be heard 1
“Titus Salt” writes :
Was reading, the other day, the “ Mysterious Mr
Sabin,” ,by Oppenheim—at least I think it was Oppenheim
but it doesn’t matter. It reminded me considerably of
“Pro Patria,” arid some half-a-dozen other works of a
new class of fiction that has sprung up lately. In this
class the British empire is ever tottering to its fall
Somebody has discovered the special, solitary, particular'
button which, if pressed, will wreck the whole show
The button .hqs been there all the time, but nobodv
noticed it before, else the empire would have fallen lono-
ago. Somebody has ascertained that the empire is
balanced on a hair, and he has located the hair. Or else
there is a document somewhere which, if found, will blow-
all Britannia kite high. And a dark foreign emissary is
rushing at the button, or making a bee-line for the hair,
or is half-a-mile ahead of everybody else in the race for
the document. The enemy isn’t going to raise a huge
army and fleet and crumple up Britain in the usual way
by a long war ; when he finds out the weak spot, and
puts his finger on it, things will simply crumple up by
themselves. And the trouble is that, after the novelist
has lashed his readers to frenzy for 200 pages—after the
empire has tottered frightfully, and the nation has
realised its peril and its helplessness, and has
been unable to relish its beer owing.to the greatness
of the crisis—a time comes when it is necessary to
explain what the mystery was. And the novelist never
has an adequate mystery to offer. After: working up all
this frenzy about how, the empire was balanced on a hair
and the foreign miscreant was going straight for the hair
with a pair of scissors, and how, if he got there, one-sixth
of the globe was going to fall in a heap and be so helpless
that any foreign alderman might smack it on the ear with
impunity, he can’t invent a feasible hair. In “ The
Mysterious Mr. Sabin ” the horrid secret is about to be
sold to Germany, and when Germany gets it Kaiser
William is going to come over and reign in London, and
give Edward VII. a job as sentry at his palace gate. The
secret is hidden in the house of a deranged admiral, and
round that house rage conspiracy, intrigue and the devil-
ment of 47,000 devils. And after all the secret only
amounts to some plans of coast defences -and particulars
about a number of defective ironclads.
In another work of the same character the empire is
tottering to its fall,.and the cause of the totter proves to
be an attempt to drive a tunnel from France to England.
In a third, it is a flying machine ; in a fourth, a scheme
for a great invasion of Chinamen, who are going to invert
their joint and several vegetable basket over Britain and
smother it. Whether this hysterical variety of literature
is a sign of national decadence or not is hard to say; but
it is very weary stuff to read—very weary and cheap and
crude. In the horrid and twopenny variety of melo-
drama the fate of the hero usually depends on a lost
document. This is the same thing in a swollen form,
and it is also horrid and twopenny. Perhaps it would be
more truthful to say that it is half-penny.
Mary Gilmore:—
In regard to the Literary Woman directly using her
own personal experiences as copy, it is a matter entirely
regulated by her sense of honor and her feeling of per-
sonal dignity. The things intimately one’s own, and in-
timately one’s self, are not for the public, as a rule. Of
course, the utilitarian woman, the notoriety-loving
woman, and the impulsive woman, all have characteris-
tics which war with the natural human reticence which
we call modesty; and What they may do can only be
gauged by the weight of these qualities in the totality of
their make-up. But the over-plus of these qualities is
abnormality. Indirectly, I dare say, all that happens
to one works in somewhere and somehow, leavening the
whole. Without experience, from the infant’s first sense
of cold, to the last link of thought we have, man would
be less than a jelly fish.
Rita Sunyasee on the Woman Writer question :
Seeing that ideal matrimony should be based on Love
(a little further removed from mutual admiration), and
Love, analysed to its essentials, means, roughly put, the
sinking of many idiosyncrasies on both sides for a perfect
consummation to be expected—the bias of common-sense,
based on the ethics of domesticity, is against a happy,
much less a satisfactory, uniSn betwen men and women
writers. Like the circus-girl, actresses, and other units
of womanhood, who, quite worthy in themselves of per-
petuating the best traditions of their particular sphere,
are quite beyond the pale of domesticity by reason of
Bohemian existence, and further by the exigencies of
their callings, the Literary woman, in a greater degree
than the man-writer, must subdue her mental activity and
be prepared to face the music of the domestic hearth
rather as it is than as her fancy hears it ! The average
school inarm, typewriter, woman bookkeeper or clerk,
aye ! the up-to-date, dainty, devising milliner is straying
from the ways and means of domesticity—and the woman
who rises with the daily expectation of having her cook-
ing, washing and womanly tasks generally performed for
het- by others is not angelic enough, on the airy founda-
tion of a woman’s love dream, to sink her individuality,
not to say ink-pot inclinations, and turn energies long
dormant (if she ever possessed them) in the ways of
motherhood and true womanhood generally.
“ R.A.” writes :
“ Prooshan ” (Red Page, 22/11/’O2) gives rather poor
consolation to Henry Lawson—an Australian Crown as
the price _ of padding through Hell’s region with
“ Matilda ” up. “Prooshan” says: “ There is more to
win than mere pecuniary remuneration as a ready hand
on magazines in London.” Given rest, Lawson will do as
good work as ever he has done. Among free-lances the
“ Australian Crown ” has long been held up to contempt
as not being an asset to the extent of providing a reliable
barrier against starvation. If Lawson be advised by
experience, he will use his bit of bay leaves to boil the
pot in London, and abandon the Australian Crown with
the glory of fitting it on the head of “ Matilda” in the
awful bush. One “mere pecuniary remuneration ”in
the stomach is worth two Australian Crowns in the
bush.


MBS
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
STDNB Y.
SEND ALL SKINS TO
Kangaroo,
/aliafoy,
Rabbit,
Opossum.
WINGHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., uo.
„ S-yXDKTES-ST,
The Leading Salesmen. Full Values and Quick Returns.
The 00-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY, Stores: PYRMONT.
SOLE Commission 3 Per Cent.
KTO Per Pound Delivery Charge.
Liberal Advances,
Accurate Valuations,
When required.
Selling Brokers.
PROMPT
RETURNS A
SPECIALITY.
h
Special Attention to
details.
Weights carefully
taken.
Principals
having over 30 Years
Experience Conduct
All Wool Sales.
Offices and Stores:
Circular Quay,
S. FREEMAN * SONS L!!3SEE
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAP OFFICE : WTNYAED SQXXAKE, SYDNEY.
'{CITHER CRACK
5806
mmm
c
5807
BB
58oa
NOR BURN.
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
GUARANTEE.— ShouId any of our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Barn a
New One will be Exchanged for it immediately on Application.
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, la. 20.
Quality not better in a G-uinea Pipe.
J.8.8.'
G. 8.8
C. 8.8. Pipe, Sterling Silver Mount, 2/6
each.
C. 8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, with Ster-
ling Silver Mount, polished Vulcanite
Mouthpiece, in Morocco Leather
Case, 4/- each.
C. 8.8. Meerchaum Pipe, guaranteed
genuine, Sterling Silver Screw, Best
Quality Mouthpiece, Morocco Gold-
lined Case, 21/- each.
C. 8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, Sterling
Silver Mounted Rim and Band, in
Morocco Gold-lined Leather Case,
8/6 each.
0.8.8. Presentation Companion, con-
taining two Silver Mounted, hand-
finished Pipes, Superior Quality
Mouthpieces, Red Morocco Gold-
lined Case, 15/6 each.
C'.E.E.
C.E.E.
N
mil 1L
m
is
RICHMOND,VA.^
ĥ
Dark and
Bright
IS THE BEST.
Price, ss. lb., Post Free, all States.
T’SAVING secured the Sole Agency for the
JHT above brand of AMERICAN TOBAGOO, we
have very much pleasure in recommending
same to our Clients and the Smoking Public. We
feel sure that one trial will be sufficient to con-
vince Smokers that “ SOLID SHOT ” is the finest
Tobacco on the market. Splendid aroma, and
does not bite the tongue.
Save “Solid Shot’’ Tobacco Tags.
For Each 100 you will receive from the
Agents, Tree, one only C.B. B. Briar
Pipe and Pocket KniTe.
WHOLESALE PRICE LISTS ON APPLICATION.
MIGK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney, n.s.w.
a
BUCK
if
THIS is the way they feel, the men who had given up hope, who thought there was no cure for them, un
thev came upon DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT. Now they are full of life, overflowing with
joyous spirits, and “care to the winds." Pains are gone, weakness is gone, and full vigor is m every
limb. They regain that exuberance of spirits that they remember as if a dream. .
Do you want to feel like that? Then wear this grand life-giving appliance for two months at night. It will
charge every organ with electric life, and you will feel like a two-year-old. It puts steam in your run-down
body, drives away pain and renews youth.
DR. IVicLAUQH LIN’S New Electric Belt
OTTIES-lESS, 02=8. WE HT 1 0^8.2?" 23 XT £lOOO.
Unlike other concerns selling Electric Belts, we don’t sell them as so much SCRAP IRON. We don t take
every case that comes to us, but, when we tell a man we can cure him,, we are prepared to cure him, an 1
ou, advice, wear OUR BELT for a few hours every nigh, and WE WILL
CURE you. NO DRUGS-Hence, little expense. OUR BELT infuses new vigor ne * a “kition, i"et it
into every muscle and tissue. IT gives new life direct from Nature. USE IT, and you 11 never reg_ret_ it
From New Zealand.
Tiik Dr. McLaughlin Co.
Dear Sirs.—l was so delighted with my
Belt that I quite forgot all about writing to
you. lam pleaded to be able to tell you that
the pain over my heart has entirely dis-
appeared already, and I don’t tire so easily
as I used to. I am more than pleased and
will always recommend your Belt.
I remain, yours sincerely,
OTTO WEBB
Pahiatua, New Zealand.
From Victoria.
Dear Sirs. —I am sending you a report of
my condition, and am glad to tell you that I
am gradually improving. My spirits are
lighter and brighter, and the dreadful dreams
which I had at night have greatly subsided,
and I can again feel pleasure in my surround-
ings. If I can find anv more acquaint-
ances needing help I will be glad to recom-
mend your Belt, and will never fail to do so.
Yours truly,
G. W. SAUNDERS.
Erskdale.
From W.A.
After all doctors and remedies had failed,
and after months of suffering from sciatica,
your Belt cured me, and now I am in fine
condition.
P. W. KELLY.
Angel Terrace,
Coolgardie.
Our Chief-of-Staff is the only Registered Qualified Specialist in Aus-
tralia who devotes his entire tian® to Electric Treatment. Trust Ho Othe. .
NOTICE.
PROSTATIC TROUBLES NERVOUS SPELLS, VARICOCELE, or any ailment of that kind it
ij astwre vou fuS?i if you would into this method of ours. We know beyond all possibility of doubt that
swifts jssssl&e? ss ß *.**. mi d.u y «™* ™
by. If you want this book, we send it closely sealed free, if you send this paragraph. Hours 9 a.m. o p. .
Write -uls for an. eacplanation of the **• Belt; ”
FraudL.
J
J
OOP-* -B-K *
pr^la^ %b «*3;
*«2
m:
\i^Z7s'
The Dr. McLaughlin Co,
85 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Offices : 167 E Swartston Street.
NON-i INJURIOUS TO THE THROAT.
HAMP-MAPE. WO DUSTY TOBACCO.
CIGARETTES.
(Virginia Grade.)
ABSOLUTELY UNIQUE IN QUALITY.
S. HOFFNUNQ & CO., Merchants, Pitt-st., Sydney.
Solo Manufacturers : ARDATH TOBACCO CO., 44 Worship Street, London, England.
2H.p. to tOOh.p.
KING. MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
ħ
h
ĥ
Noiseless Uuderwater . .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
r
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J. F.
Telephone 2671.
WITH THE KING ENGINE —ONE LEVER CONTROLS THE WHOLE.
aVE C 5 30 3EJ R. IV2C O T T &z GO P -A 3XT “S 2",
37 MARKET STREET, SYOMBY.
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
BY
“Steele Rudd,


%
Hotelkeepers, make your own
DERATED WATERS
THE “AUSTRAL" ASRATED WATER MACHINE occupies
only Four Feet square, will produce 160 dozen BOTTLES
per day of Finest Waters (Lemonade, Ginger Ale, Sodawater,
&c.) at a COST BELOW FOURPENCE PER DOZEN. These machines
are now working in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and
South Africa.
Write for Prices and Particulars.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
ECKERSLEY AND SONS,
214-216 Queen Street, Melbourne.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
h
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING.
MOIR’S
“MAYFAIR”
TABLE-JELLY
ui
"Made In half-
a-minute by
the mere ad-
dition of boil-
ing water-"
IN PINT
PACKETS.
CRYSTALS
Manufacturer*— JOHN MOIR ft SON, LTD.. LONDON. ABERDEEN and SEVILLE.
Head Office: 9 ft 10, Great Tower Street, LONDON. E.C.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL *900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
*l*o DUI'Y COMPETIXIOKT.
WINES r '“ Uesl o,dy 01 SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
ENO’S
HEALTH GIVING,
COOLING,
‘FRUIT
REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING.
SALT.’
THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT where it has been
taken in the earliest stages of a disease, it has, in
innumerable instances, PREVENTED what would other-
wise have been a SERIOUS ILLNESS.
CAUTION.—-See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you have-a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, ENG.,
by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
TRADE
MARK
FOX Bros. & Co., Ltd., warn the public that their Trade Mark consists
ONLY OF THE WORD FOX
which is a guarantee of soundness of material and quality of dye of all
Worsted Coatings, Serges $ Tweeds
on which it is stamped.
As the result of many years of experience . . .
FOX’S PURE INDIGO DYE
is recognised as the best in the market. All FOX’S Standard Cloths are
stamped every two yards on the back —
FOX
PURE INDIGO
and without this stamp are not genuine. These celebrated serges can be
obtained from the leading Tailors and Drapers throughout the Colonies.
FOX BROS & Co., Ltd., WELLINGTON, SOMERSEI, England.
NATURE’S CREAT PICK-ME-UP..
KUTNOW’S POWDER . .
has achieved the highest
distinction in the Medical
World, and is used by the
following distinguished per-
sonages :
The Royal Pamily?
His Majesty’s Household.
His Majesty’s Ministers.
His Majesty’s Judges.
His Majesty’s Diplomatic Corps.
His Majesty’s Army and Navy.
Members of the House of
Lords.
Members of the House of
Commons.
Members of the Civil Service.
Members of the Universities of
Oxford and Cambridge.
Unquestionably the Necessity of Vigorous
Health is seriously personal to everyone, and therein lies the value
of Kutnow’s Powder, which is transcendentally superior to any known
remedy of the age. Its purity, its painless action, its prompt alleviation
of suffering, and its strengthening, refreshing, invigorating virtues, fully
entitle it to the high distinction it has gained with members of the
Medical profession and the public generally.
With those who take Kutnow’s Powder, an improvement, almost
instantaneously, as it were, in energy is felt, a joyous feeling of vigorous
health returns, exhiliaration of spirits is produced together with eager-
ness for work, delight in pleasure, and sweetness of refreshing rest.
KutnOW’S Powder can be obtained in capsuled bottles from all
Chemists and Medicine Vendors.
KutnOW’S Powder is a tried and proved remedy of great
medicinal, curative, and invigorating value. IMITATIONS are
simply drastic purgatives, and not only useless but injurious.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
See that the name KUTNOW is printed on each Carton in which
the bottle is packed.
Only such ensure genuineness.
THERE ARE FRAUDULENT IMITATIONS.
Beware of them l !
The Medical Council,
January 1902, said :
“ Nature, unfortunately, lias
not endowed us with an ostrich
stomach, which we really need
in our modern times to digest
too rich meals swallowed in too
great haste. For all sufferers of
indigestion or diseases hrougnt
on by faulty metabolism, the
greatest medical scientists all
over the Avorld have lauded in
the highest of terms Kutnow’s
Powder. It is made direct.from
the waters of the best known
European mineral spring, but
supersedes the latter on account
of its pleasant taste, while the
parent water, where it is derived
from, is disagreeable to the
palate and nauseating to the
taste.”
Rev. T. W. Stephenson writes
“ Addington Vicarage, Langwathby.
“I am much obliged for the bottle of
Kutnow’s Powder. I consider it an excellent
remedy in all troubles connected with the
stomach, liver, &c. It has the great advan-
tage of being pleasant to take.
“ (Rev.) T. W. STEPHENSON.”
Proprietors ; S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 FARRINCDON RD., LONDON, E.C. Proprietors in TJ.S.A. : Kutnow Bros., Ltd., 853 Br< a]way, New York.


It’s an easy job for the barber to
part the hair od a head like this.
It’s just as easy to prevent baldness
if you only do the right thing.
Baldness is almost always a sure
sign of neglect; it is the story of neg-
lected dandruff.
Dandruff is untidy, unnecessary, and
unhealthy.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
cures dandruff and prevents baldness.
You save your hair and you are spared
the annoyance of untidy clothing.
It also stops falling of the hair, and
makes the hair grow thick and long.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer's Hair Vigor,
Prepared by Dr J. C Ayer & Co.. Lowell Mass., U.S.A.
#
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES : Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long 1 ,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address : 110 WILLIAM-
ST., cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
ĥ
Cable trams will stop at door. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hair work sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
ħ
Given
away
...t0...
Advertise our
Write To-Day.
Send
Postal Note.
2/6
The Bunch
Post Free.
3 Black Tips with Ospreys. A Marvel of Cheapness.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
S€HP US-
YOUR PHOTOGRAPH.
F you send a Photograph of yourself (or friend) to
Mr. Mark Blow, Crown Studios, Sydney,
he will reproduce from it a very beautiful and
Artistically Finished
Permanent Enlargement
In Black and White, equalling a rich Steel Plate
Engraving, handsomely mounted on an Indian-tinted
Plate, sunk mount, and as good in every way as Enlarge-
ments now being supplied at from 30/- to 50/- each, and
will carefully pack it and send it Carriage Paid to any
address in Australia, Tasmania, or New Zealand for 10 G.
Your Photo. Returned with Order.
Per 25 Cent.
Reduction in the
Price of
PHOTOGRAPHIC PAPERS.
KNOWN all over the World for
their unequalled richness in Silver,
and all-round Excellence.
Price List of all Dealers and of
KODAK LIMITED,
284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please Mention this Papke.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTGASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE
Australian Mutual Provident Society
SPECIAL NOTICE Next Distribution of the Profits at
*" rrT "" ii 31st December, 1902.
Policies issued before the close of this year will share in the Bonus to be then allotted.
The Cash Bonus divided among the participating policy holders for the single year 3901 was £538,725,
being the largest amount ever allotted by the Society in one year. (All bonuses vest immediately
on policies attaining a duration of two years.
Persons desirous of effecting assurances with the A.M.P. Society should note the above carefully, and
send in their applications early, either direct or through any of the Society’s Agents, so as to’reap
the benefit of this year’s bonus. 1
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman ; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman • Beniamin Short
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker ; J. Abbott, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; F. E. Winchcombe Esq Mp’
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S. ’
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
h
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10s,
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-at.,
SYDNEY.
Send for a
Catalogue.
ĥ
Bent Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles.
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £Blos.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
WMium
muni}
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
Kew South Wales —
M. RUTTY & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia—
Hart, Lawrence % Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Western A ustralia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland —
Thoe. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Philp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania—
V/atchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie £ Co.,
Launceston
A'ew Zealand—
0. Benjamin & Co.
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christcnuro/i.
Most makes of .22 caliber cartridges are as variable as some
men’s watches. Cartridges out of the same box won’t
shoot alike. Some go high, some go low and some don’t
go at all. This is not true of
WINCHESTER
.22 Short and .22 Long Cartridges.
They shoot well all the time, and shoot just where you hold.
Special powder made according to carefully determined and
tested formulas is used in loading Winchester Cartridges
and every bullet is swaged by special machinery which
makes them uniform in size, weight and density. This
modern method of manufacture coupled with a rigid sys-
tem of tests makes Winchester Cartridges better than any
other brand on the market. A trial will convince you.
WB STOCK-AU. Wl NCH rstf.p goods.
M ( LEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd.
ELIZABETH ST., fIELBOURNE ; GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS
French’s Acting Edition.
ħ
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Fxtra Special Catalogue of
Hoolis Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE . ,
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
5 TIV HOd: KIVH 0009
6 n
SS
kUt Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. ' Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES GF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d,; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & 00.,
Pitt-street. Sydney*
CONSULT
HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
London Times, as an epitaph for the
British nation
Here lies a people whose rare gifts of energy, good
sense, and integrity raised them above all other peoples
when those qualities were all in all. But they lacked
intelligence and despised it; and, lacking intelligence,
they fell from their high estate as soon as the world’s
prizes began to be awarded only to those who brought a
trained and disciplined intelligence to the understanding
of its laws—moral, economic, and physical.
The “Greatest Kentry on Uurth ” not
only takes first prize for fancy religions, but also,
apparently, for wildly-weird friendly societies.
At the recent annual convention, at Milwaukee,
of the Concatenated Order of Hoo Hoos, elections
were made of Snark of the Universe, Senior Hoo
Hoo, Junior Hoo Hoo, Bojum, Scrive-noter,
Jabberwock, Custocation, Arcanoper, and Gur-
deen.
A Message.
You will come back !
Because the quick pulsating breath of Spring,
The pungent scent of wild flow’rs burgeoning
Will bring you memories of a time like this
When langorous West winds made you crave to
kiss ;
And I was there with crimson tempting mouth
To quench your thirsting, yet increase your
drouth.
Oh, heart of mine ! You cannot stay away
When Spring dawn lengthens into summer day,
When all the mating instinct’s in the air
You will remember that my face is fair,
No pillow softer, whiter, than my breast,
No heart so true as where your head may rest.
Oh, warm winds, send him thought of days to be !
Oh, Springtide, make his pulses thrill for me !
Oh, wild-flowers, blazing by the bridle-track,
I’ll love you if you bring my lover back !
NELLIE M. FIELD.
The Gift of the Wind.
She came as an amorous wind,
Dew-sweet with the incense of flowers,
And swept from a lust-weary mind,
The dust of inglorious hours;
She fell as a dusky-red rose
Athwart the worn path to my heart,
And swift from the desert arose
Fairy blooms of a sovereign art.
Love dreamed in the shade of the palms,
Love woke where the waterfalls gushed.
Dream, love, in the warmth of my arms
Until the wild heart-beat is hushed.
So let the tense gaze of black eyes
Sink deep to the earth-swelling soul,
Then cease the low plaint of the sighs
Still breathed for the freshness I stole !
O witching the generous night,
And wondrous the song-haunted day,
Adrift when forbidden delight
Lures all men’s senses astray !
Adrift when the pulses of earth
Beat fast with the glories of love,
And all that of passion has worth,
Is wafted by gods from above !
A week and a night—we were glad,
Merged deep in an exquisite bliss,
A week and a day—we were sad,.
Clasped close in a soul-searing kiss'!
The wind-witch when soughing from south,
Sweet-lipped with red cedar and pine,
Blows kiss after kiss on my mouth —
Ah, love, that these kisses were thine !
THE HERMIT.
To Arms.
“ To Arms ! ” —Love’s eager battle-cry
Rings bell-like through the night.
The patrol-hearts beat swift, and by
Go lip-battalions bright.
“ To Arms ! ” —the sweet kiss-cavalcades
Ride down through vale and glen.
The picket mouths of glowing maids
Meet those of sentry-men.
“ To Arms ! ” —sweet arms of laughing Love—
White squadrons of the stars
Bret in their barrack-yards above
And long for like red wars.
*
“To Arms ! ” the hearts’ fierce cohorts come,
All hotly marching on;
Prince Passion beats his battle drum,
Or waves his gonfalon.
“ To Arms ! ” like ruthless-veined hussars
Men hearts in squadrons go ;
With champing bits and bridle-bars,
Their souls ride out a-row.
“ To Arms ! ” —the tender Panoply—
The stirrup-stars of Love,
Like sabre-gleams of ecstasy
Flash in the darkled grove.
“To arms ! ” Sweet women, hear the call
Ring past your bosom’s gate !
Reach down your hearts from hook and wall,
And meet man’s mouth elate.
“To arms ! —To arms ! ” Love’s battle-cry
Is ringing thro’ the night;
The vanguard-hearts march beating by,
The phalanxed lips shine bright.
GRANT HERVEY.


k Quiet
•«
©• • m
Four Crown
Whisky
m
d
*
‘■m
x
A Torturing Liver.
“KN EXPERIMENT."
The Best Bargain I Ever Made.
The Case of K|rs. B. LAWUIV
(by a reporter).
The inventions of paper and the press
have put an end to all the restraints with
which our forefathers were fettered, and
they have not only made everyone a writer,
but have also enabled every mind to pour
itself into print and diffuse itself over the
whole intellectual world. The consequences
are inestimable, as, if the slow and laborious
operation of writing on parchment was still
in existence it would be difficult to acquaint
all our readers with such important matters
as are spoken of by Mrs. Bridget Lawler,
of Northwood-street, Camperdown.
“ I was once stricken with a terrible
malady,” began that lady. “It was an
attack of rheumatism which started in my
feet and worked its way into my hands, the
pain being so great that the joints felt as if
they were being screwed round in a vice. I
was very stout when I was first taken ill,
but four years’ intense suffering took all the
flesh off my body, besides making me very
weak and irritable. Some days the pains
were not so bad, while at other times they
were so severe that I was a regular cripple
through them, and could not get out of bed.
At the best my limbs were almost useless,
for I had to go from one room to another
on my hands and knees, so that will tell
you how sorely pressed 1 was.”
“ Did any complications arise?” queried
the newspaper man.
“ They did indeed—a'ny amount of them,
for my system seemed to be upset right
throughout. One of the chief causes of my
weakness was through my food coming back
almost as soon as it was taken, and I hardly
got five minutes’ respite from retching both
day and night.s>No wonder, then, that my
eyes felt swollen and that my sight was bad,
and that I used to lie in a state of exhaustion
for hours, with my head pierced by sharp
pains as if rheumatism was there also. Oh !
it was a wretched time for me, and one
which I would not go through again for
thousands of pounds. I thought the vomit-
ing was caused through food being taken
against my inclination, but I was bound to
eat a little sometimes, even though my
appetite was gone, or I would have collapsed
altogether. A heavy kind of pain in the
chest was very troub'esome, too, as it
seemed to weigh me down to such an extent
that I could not get my breath properly,
and thoughts of smothering often entered
my mind, although I was not afraid of
doing so in my sleep, because I very rarely
got any. It was quite an extraordinary
event for me to sleep three hours at a time,
and only happened when I was so exhausted
that even my tortures could not keep me
awake any longer ; but for all that I did
not feel rested afterwards, as the nasty
dreams I had seemed to take away all the
refreshing influences of sleep. When my
eyes opened again I still felt languid and
heavy and so low spirited and desolate that
all brightness seemed to have vanished from
my life. After taking any necessary
nourishment my stomach filled out with
wind, thus bringing into force another dis-
comfort, which frequently developed into
pgins like the cramps, and lasting till every-
thing, as usual, was vomited. About the
shoulders, too, I had reason to complain
owing to irritating pains getting a hold
there, while nothing could be more un-
welcome than the sickly taste I had in my
mouth every morning, besides having a
whitish coating on my tongue. These
symptoms made me understand very clearly
that my liver was deranged to a serious
degree, and I suppose my doctors knew that
as well, but still I did not benefit myself in
any way By remaining under their treat-
ment.”
“ How many doctors did you have ?
“ It would be very hard for me to say
exactly. Indeed, I had so many that I
cannot remember them all, and I have no
reason to keep them in mind, because not
one of them did me any good. The more I
went to the worse I got, and then I started
taking advertised pills and medicines, one
particular kind of which having such an
injurious effect upon me that after taking &
certain quantity I was almost paralysed on
one side of my body. There was very little
medicine I had not taken more or less of,
but I was now afraid to resort to any of
them again. I went on in misery for a
while without anything, but, being so help-
less that I could not even handle a cup, I
thought I would never get better that way,
and as I had tried everything but Clements
Tonic it would not do much harm to see
what that medicine was like.”
“ Was your experiment attended with any
better results ? ”
“It was the best bargain I ever made in
my life when I bought some Clements Tonic,
for there was no uncertainty or indecision
about its aciion or my internal organs,
which felt its curative propensities much
more readily than I had deemed possible.
For a long time past my nerves had been
very weak, and I was upset and tremulous
at all sorts of trifling incidents, but that
was one of my troubles which Clements
Tonic remedied straight away. My nervous
system was greatly invigorated after taking
three or four bottles, and then I ceased
meeting difficulties half-way, for I was so
much brighter in spirits and more hopeful
through receiving such benefit from
Clements Tonic that I thought I might yet
leave my sufferings behind if I gave that
medicine a fair trial. And thus when each
bottle was finished I got another, the
returns for my outlay being a good healthy
appetite and a steady falling off in my
pains. My headaches did not last long
against Clements Tonic, and all the time
my liver symptoms were losing their in-
tensity. 1 slept well at nights, because my
rheumatic pains were less violent, whilst
those about my shoulders and chest had
left altogether, leaving me to breathe with-
out the least distress. I got up with my
mouth free from its objectionable taste, and
after each meal of the day there was an
absence of flatulence and consequent pains ;
but to describe each healthful blessing
which came from every bottle of Clements
Tonic would, perhaps, take up too much of
your time. I must content myself by say-
ing that in a few weeks my internal com-
plaints were quite obliterated, and I was
able to get about my work with a cheerful
heart and a contented mind. The
strengthening and disease-removing powers
of Clements Tonic simply astounded me
after the many experiences I had with other
medicines, and I would be very ungrateful
indeed if I kept this knowledge to myself.”
“ Did your various pains leave as quickly
as the rest ? ”
“ No ; but although it took some time to
get me well and strong again in every
respect there is none the less credit due to
Clements Tonic, as it was the only medicine
which was able to bring me back to health,
and I am willing to let you publish my story
in any way you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Bkidubt Lawler, of North wood-street,
Camperdown, Sydney, in the State of New
South Wales, Commonwealth of Australia, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that 1 have
carefully read the annexed document, consisting
of four folios, and consecutively numbered from one
to four, and that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic,
and also contains my full permission to publish in any
way ill}' statements which I give voluntarily, and
without receiving any payment; and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of
the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Camperdown, this
twentyflfth day of March, one thousand nine hundred
and two, before me,
ROBERT ELSTUB, J.P.
Skin-Tortured Babies
AND TIRED MOTHERS
Find Comfort in Cuticura
gentle anointings with cases by mild doses of
purest of emolhents, to be foltowea i blood- TMs
Coticobaßesolveot anentj and economical treat-
th<! ? U f e r,r ’tort U rtag’ d.sflgaring, itching, burning, bleeding, scaly,
,S ntolw humours, eczemas, rashes, irritations, and
itcMnt’ “th TO hair, of infants and children, yet compounded.
millions use cuticura soap
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment,
the skin, for cleansing the sea P c and soo thing red, rough,
stopping of falling hair, for s and chaflngSi i n the form of bath 9
and sore hands, for baby rashes, g» free or offensive perspira-
for ulcemtbie for many sanative,
tion, m the form of washes tor themselves to women, especially
antiseptic purposes wluchreadily bath , and nursery. No other
mothers, and foraiitne purpus oomnared with it for preserving,
medicated soap ever compounded hair and hands. No other
purifying, and a p however expensive, is to be compared with
foreign or domestic toilet soap, nurserv. Thus it combines
in Price, the best skin and complexion soap, and the
best toilet and best baby soap in the woi Id.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
fChocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
“ d “" mo “ r
cures Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses.
CUT,CUBA Remedies are Hid throughout the world.
Depot: 27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: 5 Rue de la Pais, Pans. Forasis .ukuq a»i>
Cosr., Sole Props., Boston, U. 8. A.
MELLIN’S
FOR INFANTS FOOD AND INVALIDS
Is adapted for use from birth.
Send for Pamphlet and Samples to GOLLIN & CO., Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide and Wellington.
h
AERTEX CELLULAR FABRIC
is the ideal form of body covering, possessing all the neces-
sary hygienic qualities, and being also most comfortable and
of attractive appearance, and for those reasons is recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty wherever introduced.
Aertex Cellular Underwear is a Sure Preventative against Chills.
Cellular Day Shirts*
Silk neckbands and soft wrists.
White and Self Colors, 4s to 7s 6d
Fancy Designs, 7s 6d to 9s 6d.
Cellular Neglige Shirts*
Soft fronts of plain or pleated
Cellular Cloth; wrists, French
Print, Linen, or Cellular; Recom-
mended for Golf, Cycling, &c.
White body, 7s 6d ; colored, 8s 9d
Cellular Dress Shirt*
Fitted best Belfast Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 0.8. or 0.F., one stud.
Cellular Cotton Body—
-6s 6d to 8s 6d
Cellular Lisle Body—
-9s 6d and 10s 6d
Cellular Short-Front Shirt
for every-day wear.
Open behind, 2in. linen wrists—
-5s 6d, 6s 6d.
Open front or behind, square
cuffs— 6s 6d, 7s 6d
Cellular Tennis Shirt.
With Collar and Pocket. The most
comfortable for all out-door sports
of all kinds. A great variety of
patterns stocked.
Plain Colors, 4s. 6d. to 7s. 6d.
Fancy Designs, 7s. Cd. to 11s. 6d.
f LV
AERTEX
Cellular Combinations*
High or Low Necks.
s. d.
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace .. .. .. 5 6
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. .. 7 6
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace .... .. 96
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery 10 6
AERTEX
Cellular Nightdresses*
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. .. 9 0
AVhite Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery .. .. .. 20 0
White Lisle, prettily
trimmed, fine Torchon.. 19 6
m: r
i
Aertex Cellular Chemises, KKd
Real Torchon, 14s Cd and 16s 6d.
Aertex Cellular Slip-Bodices. £&“ 3Sis%xt^ 1 sizcs
White L : sle, trimmed Torchon, 6s 6d and 8s 6d.
Send for Illustrated Price List—Post Free.
DAVID BBAHAM & CO.,
73 & 75 King-St., Sydney.
Sole Agents.
Aertex Cellular Corsets.
Fitted real Greenland Whalebone.
s. 4
Cl Ecru 13in. deep .. •• 15 ®
C 2 ~ long waist, 14iin deep 16 6
M White Cotton, Uin., nar-
row spoon busk .. .. 21 0
G White Cotton, 14tin., with
Elastic Supporter .. 24 6
F Ecru, Riding or Cycling.. 12 6
V Cycling, Boned French
Horn, Elastic Hips .. 15 0
D 1 same shape as Cl, Watch-
spring Steels .. . ■ 8 D


THE HOTELKEEPERS’ FRIEND.
Soda. Water Id. per doz.
Lemonade and Ginger Ale, 3d. per doz.
Hotelkeepers make their own supplies ot
Aerated Waters.
No skilled labor required. Anyone can learn to
operate the machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
“ To the Daylesford Mineral Water Co.
“ Dear Sirs,—The machine purchased from you is per-
fection The Stuff turned out is Splendid. It is the best
speculation I have entered into since I joined the Licensed
Victuallers.—Geo. Nichqlls, Royal Hotel, Swan Hill.
Mr. P. Kennedy, Coolgardie, says : Profits saved hy
making my own supplies of Aerated Waters with the
Machine pay the rent of my hotel.”
Mr. Lewis, Heidelberg, Victoria, says I have made
thousands of dozens of the best Aerated Waters with the
Machine, and it has not required sixpence worth of
repairs. No Hotelkeeper should be without one ot
Mr. W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W.,
says i—* 1 It is the greatest money maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.” ... .
Mr. Burk, Yalgo, W.A., says:— 1 Since getting one of
your Machines, and making our own soft stuff, I have
saved its price ten times over.” ...... .
W. H. Jones, Peak Hill, W.A., says : Machine great
B Tdavis, Peak Hill, W.A., says :— ‘‘ Cannot speak too
highly of effectiveness and simplicity.”
G.'N. Murdoch, Abbotts, W.A., says:— V alue of
Machine indisputable ; quality and cheapness of stuff
unquestionable.” , ,
T, H. Williams, Mossman, Queensland, says . Highly
successful, and recommend to all hotelkeepers.
J. S. Davidson, Bundaberg, Queensland, says : Great
saving compared to previous cost of stock.
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many small
centres of population, where a deeply-felt want exists FOR,
A GOOD QUALITY of AERATED WATERS. OBSERVE THE PROFITS.
Call and see these machines, or write for circular descnb-
ng them, also Price List. Prices Reduced.
Daylesford Hepburn MmeralWater Co-
-407 COLLINS-STREET, MELBOURNE.
U '
MEN
If
you
are
suff eri ng from V arico
cele, Atrophy, Weak
ness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and packing), and
I will send
MEDICINE
by
post
FREE
FOR YOUR INDIVIDUAL. CASE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which give back
strength of body and brain—not a free prescription
dodge, but a trial of my wonderful remedy free for
the asking.
Professor H. READ,
165 Collins Et 'eet, Melbourne.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
anrss J?aa *?!
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers &. Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
CRA-IGr & A.ITICBW,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
MEDICAL GALVANISM.
«< IV/TESSRS. HALE AND SON’S FIRM has distinKuished
IVI itself in the development of ELECTRICAL
SCIENCE as a MEDICAL AGENT. By an entirely NEW
METHOD of application they have succeeded m prodiic-
ino-an ELECTRIC BODY BELT, which for COMFORT,
EFFICACY and GENUINENESS is unquestionably far
superior to any previous invention. \et the whole appli
ance is so compact that it only weighs a few ounces. In
this age of shams it is something to get an article that
has some power apart from imagination. —Medical
Monthly.
HALE’S IMPROVED ELECTRIC BELTS have con-
quered the most OBSTINATE cases of NERVOUS and
nthpr DISEASES after all other remedies have JALIjMJ.
OUR SPECIAL ELECTRIC BELT WITH SUSPENSOR
FOR GENTLEMEN HAS NO EQUAL. Catalogue and
Price List gratis. CONSULTATION FREE.
HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
44 CASTLEREACH-STREET, SYDNEY.
ĥ
ħ
MAGNETIC
Francisco,
Rupture
Dr. Pierce’s Electric Truss
is a Marvel. Nothing like
it. Best Retainer on earth
and a Genuine Cure for Rupture,
World renowned. 27 improvem ts.
If ruptured, send a stamp, (any
sort), for new “ Booklet No. 1.
E. TRUSS C 0„ 206 Post Street, San
U S. A ; W H. Son I & CO., Agents, Sydney.
Theßoman
Hair
Restorer
Produces Brown and Black Hair.
Price 1/6 ; by post, 2/3.
An inexpensive and
certain preparation for
renewing and restoring
to its original color the
hair of ihe head, beard
and whiskers.
T.artrelv used bv the Roman ladies for preservi their
mairiiFfie'ent tresses. Nourishes the roots and r moves
dandruff : increases the quantity, and renders it glossy
anil supple ; does not stain the skin nor soil the linen. If
vour hair is falling off or turning grey, use this.
CAUTION. —This being different from most prepara-
tions, other kinds should be refused.
JAMES BRINSMEAD and CO., Chemists, ST. HILDA
All Chemists sell it. ,
GENTS.
117DTTI? T7TY
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address. —L.D.I. 3qo Collins St., Melbourne.
WOOL. PRODUCE. GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
A CX AS SELLING BROKERS OZNTI^XV
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
.''(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
I Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
I Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
< will be •' ••• ••• "•
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb. , ••• • •
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
k under
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing. Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for reahsationjby the 'Company
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are
desired giving cost of railage aiid full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney
(Corner of
Clarence Street)
19, SI, 23 King Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES ...
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pumps, Tur
(Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
/Messrs. GREENWOOD & BATLEY LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors, Pumps, eta
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
Insulated Cables, Wires, Tapes, eto.
h
:
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
Aotl consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years' practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
cure-alls.
Vigor and Strength
for all who
desire it.
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 1886, has so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your fellow man.
Tf von are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
Seek the Truth, it costs KTothing!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, cor.RusselU Collins Sts., Melbourne.
ĥ
HOME cyclopedia
HMBRACINa
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature- as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aiist. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post ls,3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is 3d.
Secret History of the Court of England, 1 6 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Ciiiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and tiie Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
■Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest)/ Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Ciievasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappho, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want!
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted. 1 •
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, i7OO pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post jaaid
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor,, Is 6d. ;
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete MbOiianic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted. .
The Secrets of Clairvoyance* Is 3d. . , %
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted l :--, . "% \
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music oompletgVls 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d. *
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards,'2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big Beak
Catalogue-post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
T\EAU SIR, —I have been cured of weakness and De-
bilitv by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to’
l«r. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
w v p; ** street, Sydney*
ħ
If
fiaiß
Mawejia
l; Rec°m«
A\EN
lTinpioejTion
f^AciDiTyd,
PcrVovs *
headache!
GOUT
PILLS
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
Tliese invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the onl Y ®® Cl ,
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
BVCiUj-nucuu
Sole Proprietors, Pbout & Go.,
brand, London, JSoMJ* dj
Strand, jjuuuuu, "*■& —— , , .
chemists and stores throughout
Australian Colonies.
ASTHMA CURE
ImaOlTs Indian cigarettes
For Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault's Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GRIM AULT JSe Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdestiie & Tkuman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman'S NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
. Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Health,
Strength and Vigor Restored In
Four Weeks by the use of
h
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
' important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
F. H. Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
ĥ
DEAF
ħ
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
(Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears, as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. •
Address— A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St. 4 Melbourne


;c
i
I
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only and
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
GORDON MARE, Secretary.
TP. W. AIKEN, Manager,
23 Years in the Establishment.
THE
‘PLUM’
h
THE
‘PLUM’
/'2J.ENTLEIIEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind o[
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7a. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6(1 cake.
Price
/Single
/Single
le Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 219.
I, Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30a.
Registered and sent Post Free to ant part op the World.
£5?" Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney
Y*S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
Old Battle Axe
Brand
is
Known
and
Appreciated
all the
World
Over.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
i
£
9e
I*e°
Cn
ff
SATISFY
EIOILIOL9J®
HOTEL
IHETROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica
t^on to The Manager.
A ROYAL LIQUEUR.
PETER F, HE BRING, Copenhagen,
CHERRY BRANDY
The King of England; The Royal Danish and Imperial Russian Courts.
SWIFT AND COMPANY, 7 Spring Street, Sydney, Australasian Agents.
ĥ
Novel aud Interesting-.
Acetylene Gas Buttonhole Lamps
Nickel-plated. Each charge gives power-
ful light for one hour. 1s 6d each,
postage 2d extra. Cheapest House for
Calcium Carbide. £3TSend for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS.,
236 Pitt Street.
SYDNEY.
and 422 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
CHRISTMAS SUITS TO ORDER.
A S a matter of comparison, before ordering CHRISTMAS
SUITS, write to . . .
CHARLES GILBERT, the Leading: Tailor,
Queen Street, Brisbane . . .
for Patterns of NEWEST SUITINGS and SRLF-MEA-
SUREMENT FORMS, and compare the value of his 508
SUIT TO MEASURE (carriage paid to any address) with
what you can get in either SYDNEY or MELBOURNE ;
and if you cannot see the advantages he offers, you must
be blind in one eye and deaf in the other.
MACHINERY
MERCHANTS,
WHOLESALE IRONMONGERS,
, And Importers of
Engines, Boilers, Pumps, Wood-
working Machines, Engineers’
Supplies, Blacksmith and
Coachbuilders’ Requisites, Pipes
and Fittings, Boiler Tubes, Gun
Metal and Brassware for Steam
and Water, Household and
Builders’ Ironmongery, Agri-
cultural Implements, Horse
Gears, Chaff Cutters, &c.
m*.
m
m
22
Machinery storb
ead office
WRISBAN
w
SMELLIE&C
I iff
Storc.
VALLtV
nORTH QuEEMSUKD BRANCH
JQWNSVILLC.
ħ
North Queensland Warehouse:
Stanley & Sturt Sts., Townsville.
Also at
New Broad St. House, London, E.C.
AGENTS FOR
ROBEY & CO., Portable
Steam Engines.
W. B. HAIGH & CO., Saw-
mill Machinery.
GWYNNE’S Centrifugal Pumps
PEARN’S Manchester Steam
Pumps.
DUPLEX Steam Pumps.
SCOTT’S Steel Mining Ropes.
FRANK VIAL & SON Leather
Belting.
WAUKEGAN Barb Wire.
PLANET JR. Implements.
AER MOTOR Windmills.
KEROSENE OIL ENGINES.
To Smokers of High Class
WILLS 8 “
MIXTURE
(Registered.)
A Choice Blend of High Class and Carefully Selected TOBACCO.
Packed only impatent air-tight tins.
Manufactured in two grades-Medium and Full. Price, Is. per 2oz. Tin.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1902.
Price 6d
Vot. 23. No. 1130.
THE BALMAIN SOUTH ELECTION.
WHAT CAPITALISM AND THE DAILY PRESS HOPE FOR-A VICTORY FOR CANDIDATE LAW.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
<* Australia for the Anstralians. ,>
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS AFTER
Ist NOVEMBER, 1902
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• ® ®
Half-yearly ... ... ••• . 073 b
Quarterly ... ... ••• u / u
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin 0/lice Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
Arciiihald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number , is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To -I mat curs in JilacJc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a qoo 'd idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa— Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown ;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
a/nd Wilson, » Bout St., Capetown ; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon .—Colombo Apothecary Co,, Colombo,
Vancouver.- Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., S 3 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
China. — Brewer and Co., 81 Wanking Road, Shanghai.
'TTteT^xzHeZZn.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1902.*
More Transcontinental Railway
Literature.
The Bulletin receives this letter (among
several others) from the JfiNKiNS-ridden city
of Adelaide :
Dear Bulletin.— You are very sarcastic at the expense
of South Australia because of the authorisation, of the
construction of the Transcontinental Railway to Port
Darwin on the land-grant principle under certain specified
conditions. So is Sydney D.T., which, however, shows
its hand by urging that Sydney alone should be the
terminus of the line to the Territory, and that Adelaide
is an impudent hussy for daring to contemplate making
use of its geographical advantages. But is not New South
Wales worse than South Australia in that the senior State
sells its lands for cash which it transfers to revenue,
and then borrows money in London to construct
its lines which, practically, like those of the rest
of Australia, belong to English capitalists ? The South
Australians have spent many millions on railways. They
have attempted to push the line through to Port Darwin,
and have constructed hundreds of miles of the connection
out of borrowed money. The Pine Or-eek railway (165
miles southward from Port Darwin) does not pay' working
expenses. The land between the two termini is practi-
cally without settlement save for the overland telegraph
stations, and brings in no revenue. If it were sold to
raise the money to build the remaining sections of the
railway, millions more acres would have to be alienated
than it is proposed to give under the land-grant scheme.
Yet that method would be considered legitimate by many
opponents of the present proposal. What is the differ-
ence between so constructing-the line and arranging with
capitalists to build and to work it in return for certain
specified blocks of territory ? Iq ( the first instance, the
Govt, would own the line, but would have to bear the
responsibility of working it for the benefit of the private
owners whose territory abutted on it, and whose land
would increase in value with the success of the line.
In the second instance, the grantees would build
the line and take all risks in regard to it, while
the conditions of contract would prevent them from
fleecing the public in any way, apart from the fact that
the Govt, would retain possession of the terminal portion
of the line in the South at any rate, even if they parted
with the Pine Creek line. The case of the Trans-
continental railway is distinct altogether from that of
lines such as those built by syndicates in AVest Australia,
Tasmania and Maoriland, which undoubtedly ought to
have been built by Govt. It is more of the kind of the
Canadian Pacific railway (which has done wonders for
the Dominion), or the lines which pushed over the Sierra
Nevada mountains and joined New York to San Francisco
and which would have been delayed for years had
they waited for the initiation of the Govt. —Yours,
Adelaide, Nov. 23,1902. G. R. Wilton.
P.S. —South Australia cannot afford to construct the
line herself, and she sees clearly that if the Territory
were handed over to the Commonwealth, all the influence
of the Eastern States would be exerted to deflect the
railway, so that it would run obliquely to Sydney or
Brisbane instead of to Adelaide. If the Commonwealth
would undertake to build a line from Oodnadatta to Pine
Creek within the next ten years, and to accept the
responsibility for the present debt on the Territory
(which S.A. has kept free from colored labor at great
expense for many years in the interest of a White Aus-
tralia), this State would willingly hand over her rights in
the Territory to the Federation.
The above letter states the case for the
Transcontinental land-grant syndicate to
the best advantage—so far as there is
any best advantage. The only real point
in the syndicate’s favor is the greed
and arrogance of a small gang of paro-
chialists in Sydney, whose one and only
idea of Australian progress is to bring every-
thing to Sydney, and add still further to the
congestion of traffic in the bottle-neck where
the trams run over people regularly at the
railway end of George-street. This party
demands, in the columns of Sydney Tele-
graph, that the Transcontinental line be
abandoned altogether in favor of a line which
will bear towards the coast and bring the
Northern Territory trade to Sydney. Such
an idea means building 300 or 400 miles
more railway; it means making several
hundreds of miles of line already
built by South Australia practically
worthless ; it means laying extra burdens
upon Australia (of which S.A., in addition
to losing all hope of making its partially
finished Transcontinental line payable, would
have to bear a part) for the building of use-
less mileage ; and it represents the abandon-
ment of the whole purpose with which the
line was started and the leaving of Australia
with no more real Transcontinental railway
than it had before. Also Sydney is 300
miles further from Port Darwin than Ade-
laide is, so the idea further involves a
permanent loss in the shape of extra freight
charges from port to port. Bub the proposed
scheme would bring the Territory trade to
Sydney, and in the eyes of a certain small
and narrow-minded party that covers every-
thing.
* • # *
If this party amounted to anything serious,
then the action of the Jenkins Iscariot
Government in endeavoring to get its Trans-
continental line built by a syndicate, or by
anybody who would build it on almost any
terms, might have some kind of justification.
Bub the party doesn’t amount to anything—
or at least it amounts to very little. Still,
the Australian Government should certainly
endeavor to set the matter at rest by offering,
subject to the consent of Parliament, to take
over the Territory with all its assets and
debts, and to complete the Transcontinental
line within 10, or at most, 15 years. But it
should also be stipulated 4 that South Australia
shall sell at a reasonable value the line from
Adelaide to Oodnadatta, so that the Trans-
continental shall be Federal property all
the way. And the Australian Government,
by way of giving national enterprise
an equal show with private enterprise,
should endow its railway department with
90,000,000 acres of the best available land in
the Territory, the rents to go towards sub-
sidising the railway revenue, and the pro-
ceeds of sales to go towards paying off the
railway debt. There is no need that there
should be any debt whatsoever on the new
line, for the Australian Government could
find £5,500,000 in 10 years out of taxation,
but doubtless there will be a debt from
force of habit. And if the Jenkins
Iscariot Parliament refused this offer,
which it possibly would do, seeing that
national enterprise, unlike private syndi-
cafcism, doesn’t provide boodle, tip, commis-
sions, preference shares, and the like, then
the Australian Parliament should impose a
graduated land-tax on a scale which would
make the 90,000,000-acre syndicate utterly
impossible, and which would also destroy
the other big land steals with which the
Territory is being so liberally dotted. The
Barton Government should approach
Jenkins Iscariot with a generous offer in
one hand and a club in the other, and it
should be equally ready to use either of
them.
• • • m
If the Jenkins Ministry does not come to
terms with the Australian Government, the
prospects of the Port Darwin line coming to
Sydney in the end will be better than they have
ever been before. Supposing the Australian
Parliament kills the 90,000,000-acre syndi-
cate with a graduated land-tax, as it probably
will, then that dismal public swindle will be
quite dead., and the Australian Parliament
will not be committed, as an equivalent for
its decease, to build the Transcontinental
line as a national work. The way will be
open for the Sydney agitators, and the
general irritation caused by the attempt
of S.A. to hand over such an important
enterprise to foreign speculators will be a
weapon in their hands. And if the Austra-
lian Parliament does not interfere with a
graduated land-tax the Jenkins syndicate
will probably linger for a few years and then
perish with its work less than half done.
The average railway syndicate which has its
headquarters in London is unspeakably
wasteful in its methods. The only successful
Australian private railways that the writer
can recall have been locally owned. Boodle,
commission, promoters’ profits, preference
shares, large sums paid to middlemen who
obtain the “ concession ” and re-sell it, huge
directors’ fees, office expenses, the refusal to
put up sufficient capital, and the raising of
debenture money at 5 and 6 and 7 per cent,
eat up everything. The “success 1 ' of the
"Canadian Pacific line or the United
States transcontinentals has no bearing on
the case. The S.A. line hasn’t a vast
area of rich, well-watered country to
traverse, nor has it the richest goldfield
in the world for its objective point. S.A.
can’t plank down millions in cash in addition
to the land grant to help private enterprise
out of the holes it is always falling into. It
isn’t going to make the co. a present of the*
existing line from Adelaide to Oodnadatta to
begin with, as Canada did when its great
burst of private railway enterprise started.
And it can’t prop up its syndicate perman-
ently with grants and aids, as Canada is
doing, to some extent, even yet. If the
Australian Parliament doesn’t interfere, S.A.
will probably find itself, ten years hence,
with an unfinished railway on its hands, a
huge lawsuit, a large amount of new debt
incurred in propping up the syndicate, a
great loss of land, a broken heart, and a
vanished Jenkins.
• • • •
As to whether S.A. could build the line
itself as a State enterprise, that is another
question. It has never tried to raise the
money by not only pawning its own credit
but by also setting aside 90,000,000 acres of
the best Northern Territory land, with the
assurance that the rents obtained from it
will be used exclusively to pay interest on
the railway debt, and the money derived
from sales be applied to the extinction of
that debt. Probably if it tried that experi-
ment it would find that it could get the
money in Paris or New York at a less
price than thesyndicate will pay. Theabstract
relative morality of land grant railways
and loan railways is too vast a subject to
discuss at length just now. N.S.W. and
other States sell their land, and spend the
money, and build their railways out of 3|
per cent. State loans, for which the people
have to find the interest. S.A. proposes, in
the present case, to give away the land, and
get a syndicate to build the railway with
debenture money borrowed at 5 or 6 per
cent., the people finding the interest, if it is
found at all—at least that is the usual course
in such cases. Also the Act provides that
the State may repurchase the railway with-
out getting back the land, in which case it
will just be an ordinary instance of State
ownership by means of loans—with the loss
of 90,000,000 acres thrown in. Under all
the circumstances, and all the possible frauds,
the best thing the Australian Government
can do is to approach Jenkins early with a
generous offer in one hand and the weapon
already alluded to in the other.
Premier Barton on Preferential Trade.
I am not one of those who agree with the quaking
utterances of some of the people in the press in saying
that by doing the same we shall do ourselves injury with
France or Germany. I do not fear that. Take Canada :
She at first made a preference in favor of Great Britain
of 25 per cent., then 33 1-3 per cent., and she is about to
do a little more. (Cheers.) Germany turned round and
withdrew from Canada the most-favored-nations clause.
That might have killed Canada—(laughter)—but it did
not. Canada is quite well, thank you—(laughter)—and
she is exporting more to Germany than she did before.
It is said that if we followed the example of Canada,
Germany would retaliate on our wool. Weil, take that
view. Germany at present gets her wool from the
Argentine, from the Cape, from Maoriland, and from
ourselves. She makes all her finer fabrics from merino
wool which we grow. If she did not get that wool from
us, where would she get it? (Hear, hear.) I will say
something more about that in a few days, but I will say
this now—that I am one of those who are not afraid of
other nations in the matter of doing for ourselves what
■other nations have been doing for themselves. (Cheers.)
And whether we make a reciprocal agreement with Great
Britain or take the first step ourselves by giving a pre-
ference to Great Britain, which I am prepared to do, we
shall be strengthening the Empire, and in that way we
shall be strengthening ourselves. (Cheers.) While in
England, I may add, I, as your representative, was treated
with the greatest kindness, consideration, and generosity,
■which I accepted as not intended merely for myself,
but for the people I represented.— Premier Barton at
Maitland.
In his Maitland speech, Premier Barton made a
limp and lame and sorry defence of his scheme for
■establishing a preferential tariff in favor of Great
Britain. Part of the defence was based on a great
apparent ignorance of trade conditions, both here
and in Canada. Part of it consisted in an assu-
rance that he had been hospitably received in
England, and well lodged, and liberally victualled,
and lavishly drinked, and decorated with a title—
the implication being that Australia, which got
none of this free board and lodging and refresh-
ment, and which wasn’t made a knight, but re-
mains plain Bill as aforetime, should pay for
these attentions. Australia doesn’t see the point,
but Premier Barton appeared quite seriously to
put the British hospitality which he received
among the reasons why Australia should give
Britain the trade preference which Chamberlain
■demands.
* * • *
As Premier Barton truly observes, Canada
Fas, during the last few years, charged lower duties
■on goods imported from Great Britain than on those
bought from other countries, and it has lately in-
creased this preference. The fact that Canadian
-exports to Germany dropped from 2,220,000
■dollars worth in 1899 to 1,716,000 dollars worth
in 1900 (no later figures are at present available)
may, or may not, have been one of the results of
this policy; but that is a side issue. The main
point is that Canada had every right to grant
great Britain a customs preference, while the Aus-
tralian Commonwealth has every right not to. As
a rule, a State which wants to push an export
trade, if it gives a preference at all, gives it to its
good customer —not its bad one. It gives a pre-
ference to the country to which it sells much, and
from which it buys little; and it discriminates
against the countries which buy little from it
while selling much to it. The idea is obvious
•enough ; it seeks to so arrange things that it will
transfer its buying orders to the country to which
it sells largely, on the ground that such a country
■deserves encouragement.
• • * «
Taking its trade returns in its own coinage,
Canada, when it realised the advisability of giving
a trade preference to Great Britain, found that its
■commercial position was about as follows :
Canada Canada Balance in
sold to bought from
Britain .. .. 104,998,000 32,500,000 72,498,000
dollars. dollars. dollars.
Balance
against
Canada.
'Other countries.. 59,154,000 107,823,000 48,669,000
dollars. dollars. dollars.
Naturally enough, Canada decided to give Great
Britain a special preference in the matter of
customs duties. It would have been a most
unwise country to do otherwise. It found
that Britain was willing to buy almost
•everything it ■ had to sell, while Canada
bought comparatively little from Britain in
return. On the other hand, the United States,
Germany, France, &c., were willing to sell
Canada goods to any amount, but were not willing
to buy from it. Canada decided, like any other
sensible trader, to give whatever extra encourage-
ment it could to such a good customer as Britain
had proved itself. If Britain demanded, in the
first place, that Canada should reduce its customs
duties on British goods so as to encourage its
people to use more British and less Yankee or
German goods, Britain had every right to so de-
mand. For every £1 worth of goods which
Britain bought from Canada the Dominion only
bought about 6s. worth in return, and Britain
could fairly say that it wasn’t a fair deal.
No evidence exists to show that loyalty, or de-
votion, or sentiment of any kind entered into the
matter. The average State would give special
concessions to its worst political enemy if its
worst enemy were so good a customer as this.
* • • •
But the situation in which we are requested by
Premier Barton to impose lower duties on goods
bought from Britain so that we may buy more
British goods, and to levy higher duties on foreign
goods so that we may buy less foreign goods, is
something quite different. Here are the latest
figures:—
Common- Common- -
wealth wealth Xmmon
sells to buys from wea , th<
Foreign Countries £23,032,945 £15,382,299 £7,650,646
Balance
against
Common-
wealth.
Britain .. .. 25,194,928 25,237,032 42,109
Premier Barton’s theory, therefore, is that,
because Canada gave a preference to its good
customer (Britain), we should give a preference to
our bad customer (Britain). That, because Canada
discriminated against its bad foreign customers
we should discriminate against our good foreign
customers. That because Canada gave special
terms in order to induce greater imports of
British goods when the balance of trade was
so shamefully against Britain that the latter
country had every right to demand special terms,
we should give special terms to induce larger
British imports into Australia when the balance
of trade is already against us, and if anyone has a
right to demand special concessions we are the
individual. That because Canada, when it only
bought £7,500,000 of goods per annum from
Britain, made a special effort to increase its pur-
chases, therefore Australia, which, with a far
smaller population, already buys £25,000,000
worth of British goods per annum, should also
make a special effort to increase its purchases. All
these are wildly absurd theories, yet they are
Premier Barton’s theories to the letter. Canada
found that, in trade matters, it fairly owed
Britain some £14,000,000 a year, and it made an
honest effort in the way of doing something
towards paying Britain. Premier Barton holds
that we should make a special effort to pay
Britain, though it owes us £42,000 a year, or some
like trifle.
* • • *
And Premier Barton advances as a reason —at
least the remark is so unfortunately placed that it
seems to be advanced as a reason—that he was
well treated in England, that he took the victuals
and the drink and the lodging and the title as
special compliments to Australia, and that Aus-
tralia, in consequence, should pay for them. Un-
fortunately for this line of argument Australia
looks on the victuals and the other advantages
which Premier Barton personally received as
Premier Barton’s personal matter. Also,
it regards the bill which Premier Barton
has brought back as an utterly outrageous
price to demand for that purely persona]
hospitality, even supposing it is regarded as a fair
thing for a host to present his invited guest with
any bill at all. In the circumstances, all the elo-
quence that can be scattered around re Canada’s
splendidly loyal example falls flat. Canada was
loyal when it paid Canada to be so, and when it
gained the additional satisfaction of administering
a lesson to greedy foreign customers who sought
to sell it everything and buy little or nothing in
return. It suited its own convenience both ways.
We are asked to be splendidly loyal on the same
lines when we are almost certain to lose by
it, and to make ourselves grossly unpleasant
to foreign customers who buy much from
us while we buy little in return. In trade
it is one thing to insult the man who buys from
you (as we are asked to do), and quite another
to insult the man who wants you to buy from him
(as Canada did). A seller can he insulted with
much more impunity than a buyer. Whether
Canada would have done as it did in our circum-
stances we have no means of knowing, but the
chances against it are about a thousand to one.
• » • •
There remains, of course, Premier Barton’s
assurance that our export trade with foreign
countries wouldn’t be damaged, no matter what
special disabilities we placed on these countries—
that foreign countries dare not retaliate because
they must have our wool under any circumstances.
But Australia does not live by wool alone;
in 1901 its entire wool exports were only worth
£15,000,000, and as foreign countries alone took
£23,000,000 worth of goods from us it is
evident that they bought many things of which
the off-handed Barton takes no account. In fact,
it doesn’t appear as if wool constituted half the
trade. In any case, Australia is no longer the
boas wool-growing country of the world, and it
can be dispensed with much more easily than it
could a dozen years ago. In view of that fact,
and the impossibility of deciding how far our
rivals may develop or what the future may have
in store, it is unwise to give way to needless
excitement or undue swelled head. Australia is
doing remarkably well out of commerce with
foreign countries —Germany, France, and Bel-
gium in particular. It is taking a picturesque
vengeance on the pro-Boer and other remote
characters by extracting from them, by a one-
sided process of trade, the money which paci-
fies its British creditor and prevents Bull-
Cohen rising up with Australia’s dishonoured
p.n. in his hand and calling it accursed. , A very
unwise person is the person who doesn’t know
when to let well alone, and who will * tread
on the sleeping dog, merely to see what size the
animal is when it stands up. Moreover, Premier
Barton is under suspicion of being an unreliab.e
witness in the case. He got his facts and argu-
ments from an interested party. He has just
come back from dining with an interested party.
And lie is altogether too enthusiastic about the
dinner that the interested party gave him.
Of Labor Parties.
“ In the N.S.W. Parliament the Labor party proved by
no means unreasonable over the Western Lands Bill wnen
they were made to understand the necessity of the case.
But there the nettle was grasped boldly. In South Aus-
tralia of late years the Labor party have given reasonable
consideration to pastoral relief measures. But in Sheens-
land, with a Government professedly favorable, ana a


larrre majority behind it, pastoralists have more difficulty
in getting a profitable tenure than in any other State.
“ What will the Labor party say ’ to this or that is the
first thing Ministers seem to think of, whereas the Labor
party would probably say nothing very dreadful if the
Government straightforwardly said what in their hearts
they believe, and stuck by it.”—Tiib Pastoralists
Review —the organ of militant Toryism m Australia.
' l l still vote for the Labor party. It’s all right,
but there is very little Labor about it now said
aN.S.W. working-man of the “old school, the
other day, with more than an atom of truth, when
speaking on the election of a delegate to the
now-sitting Interstate Political Labor Confer-
ence. In truth, “Labor parties” in Australia
have outgrown their name in so much as it
represented a class idea or the intolerance of what
is contemptuously dubbed “respectability by
those who rejoice in being “horny-handed.
• * ' > * *
A little consideration i\*ill show that that was
inevitable. A “Labor Party,” in the old school
sense of the word, a party of the horny-handed
for the horny-handed, honestly narrow, and nar-
rowly honest in its principles, jealously intolerant
of any “toff” element, may exist in a country like
England for the next century, or until a Revolu-
tion comes. There, class distinctions are
strongly entrenched; the so-called gentleman
regards himself as of a different class of
being to the laboring man; and Providence
is credited with keeping on hand for the
creation of humanity, meerschaum as well as
common clay. But such ideas have never been
much held in Australia. There are snobs, certainly
—hundreds, thousands of them —more offensive
snobs, perhaps, than could be found in England,
but thero is no class which is accepted as an aris-
tocracy because it was born in certain beds, and
whose ohildren will form an. aristocracy for the
same poor reason ; and there is no general body of
ignorance and superstition and reverence, to
encourage the growth of such a class. Here the
laboring man of to-day may be the well-to-do
“ gentleman ” to-morrow, the son of the shop-
keeper be a fashionable doctor or barrister, and
the “gentleman’s” son have cause to bless the
seven-shillings-a-day system on Government
works. There is, in short, not a sufficiently stable
system of social inequality to justify a “Labor”
party, in the horny-handed sense, in Australia.
• * * *
But undoubtedly many of the pioneers of the
Labor political movement thought that there was,
and laid the foundations of their party under that
misconception; but they builded better than they
knew, and about the only “class” feature of the
Labor party of to-day is its name. It is neither
composed exclusively of laborers, nor considers
exclusively laborers. It is a Reform Party, the
representative, as a rule, of most that is sincere
and earnest in State and Australian politics,
attracting support from all classes. Generally,.
too, it is more conspicuously representative of
political ability than the other parties, and secures,
therefore, somewhat more influence than the
extent of its support warrants. The hobbledehoy,
the blucher, the Tom Bent element is more con-
spicuously absent from it than from the organi-
sations to which it is opposed. More sincere,
more able, better educated, with just as much re-
gard for the graces of life as other parties, an
Australian “Labor Party” is certainly named a
little curiously.
• * * *
The title is the survival of the pioneers of the
movement who gave to the party the benefit of
their solid earnestness and sense of grievance.
They were (and are, for many survive) fine men,
those pioneers, if a little ludicrous in their narrow-
ness. Fine linen, black coats and kid gloves they
looked upon as marks of the Tory beast. (Nowa-
days a N.S.W. Labor member holds the
record as the best-dressed man in Parliament.)
Horny hands they insisted upon as the only true
marks of democratic grace (Labor members to-day
are often merchants, school-teachers, engineers,
barristers, journalists—parsons even). And from
this class-spirit at the dawn of the political
reform movement came the label ‘ ‘ Labor
Party.” It is not absolutely necessary that it
should be changed. Granted that the “ Labor
Party” has broadened until it has become
the Reform Party, has evolved into the “Edu-
cated Party,” has shown year by year an increas-
ing tendency to attract to itself all that is best,
most truly liberal and progressive in politics, the
old pioneers may yet be left the gratification of a
name which, if insufficiently descriptive, is
genuinely dignified. No one needs to be ashamed
of being a “ labor member,” though it would not
be good to be called a loafing member.
• * * *
Looking back on the past, the Labor parties of
Australia, assembled at their first conference after
practical experience in a Pan-Australian Parlia-
ment, may well congratulate themselves. They
have revolutionised the franchise conditions, set
in train a long series of measures destined to
ameliorate the lot of the working population, and
the while won for themselves a high personal
reputation for ability, thoughtfulness, sobriety,
and sincerity. Even from their enemies, reluctant
iiraise has been wrested, and grudging acknow-
edgment of their sweet reasonableness gained.
When the Pastoralists’ Review is forced to some
sort of commendation, it shows the general prac-
tical benefit of Labor party effort. But the suc-
cesses of the past do not justify a contented lazi-
ness for the future. What has been done is
splendid. Still greater work yet remains.
* * * *
That work groups itself naturally under two
headings—the one to an extent idealistic and senti-
mental, the other practical and business-like —fos-
tering and crystallising the national, as opposed to
any outside sentiment, and straightening the
national finances. These are the two great reform
tasks of future politics, mutually inter-dependent,
and necessarily conjoined. The first is impossible
without the second, the second incomplete with-
out the first. The Australian Labor Party—which
is the Reform Party, and the Educated Party-
must recognise that “My Country” which is
“ my country ” with the reservation that the title
is in pawn to the foreign money-lender is a
meaningless phrase. That section of it which
represents the cause of reform in the Australian
Parliament seems to see now, partly at any rate,
the necessity of an absolute revulsion from the
present Pawn system of finance; the State Labor
members have not progressed so far as yet,
but it is morally impossible for them to re-
fuse the lead of the Federal Labor members
if that is strongly enough given. The conference
now in session—which represents in a fashion the
whole political Labor movement as it finds ex-
pression in municipal, State and Federal politics—
might, with great advantage, give special con-
sideration to this matter. The point to be kept
in mind is that the Labor party can afford to
neglect no reform of value. Its existence in the
past has depended, and its existence in the future
will depend 1 , on its having a monopoly of the
earnest advocacy of Progress. That’s its business.
Neglect it, and room will have to be made for
another and more progressive organisation.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Tho Balmain Election.
Balmain South (N.S.W.) State bye-election is
absolutely unimportant so far as the personal
issue is involved. Mr. S. .T. Law or Mr. Beyers—
neither is of the least moment. But interest is
given to the struggle by the fact that it is the first
appearance of the recently-organised sectarian
movement before an Australian constituency ; if
Mr. Law retains the seat it will represent a
triumph of Orangeism and an endorsement of the
miserable attempts now being made to divide the
people of N.S. Wales into two hostile religious
camps. The facts that the electorate is one
particularly amenable to the influence of Dill-
Mackyism; and that Mr. Law as the recently
sitting member (and a “good local member” to
boot) has much in his favor, point with some
certainty to a victory for him. Yet there
could, at the present stage of N.S.W.
politics, be no more unfortunate happening,
for to win the first engagement will much
encourage the sectarian fanatics. Since the Bal-
main electors are given the chance to vote against
the “Yellow Pup,” without in any way endorsing
the “ Scarlet Woman,” they may, and, it is to be
hoped, will, take the sensible course of discouraging
one brand of sectarianism without encouraging the
other. The return of Mr. Beyers would mean
that. The solidarity pledge of the Labor party i s
involved in the issue also. Mr. Law has found the
present aconvenient opportunity todeclarethat his
conscience will not permit him to remain a pledged
Labor member. Mr. Beyers stands as the candi-
date of the “ Solidarity Labor Party.” Whilst not
swallowing whole the N.S.W. Labor party plat-
form (chiefly because of its omissions), The Bul-
letin regards that party as the most hopeful
organisation in State politics. It is a very dis-
tinct advance in education, in ability, and in
liberal views on the John See party or the
Carruthers party, and from it there may evolve
the reform administration which will do for
N.S.W. what Ballance did for Maoriland ; there
is no hope of such an evolution from the other
parties. A necessary condition of the Labor
party’s existence is its “solidarity pledge.”
Without that it would soon disappear. Conse-
quently, in the Balmain South contest, Mr. Law
stands as the enemy, Mr. Beyers as the friend of
the Labor party. If this were the main issue,
the result would be in no doubt, for Balmain
South is a labor electorate. But the miserable
religious squabble seems to be the point relied
upon to carry the constituency for Mr. Law.
The real contest is between Sectarianism and
Labor.
»
The New Queensland Land Bill Again.
A little over 12 months ago the Q. pastoralists
approached the Government and laid the tale of
their woes and demands before the Philpocracy.
An extension of ten years added on to the unex-
pired term of lease (five or six years in some cases,
15 or 16 in others) for half the lease, in cases of
good sheep country, was, in the eyes of pastoral
lessees, a fair thing. Now that the general elec-
tion is over and things look fairly secure again,
the desires of the sheep - lords have waxed
amazingly. Much of the best country in W.Q.
has an unexpired term of 15 or 16 years to run. If
this land be classified as 11. class it receives an
extra 21 years (the shortest extension possible
under the new Bill), making a sum total of 36 or 37
years altogether. Re-assessment can only take
place twice in the whole term, so that in many
cases a re-assessment of rent will only occur once
in 18 to 20 years. As to the possible resumptions,
56 per cent, of the land cannot be touched till the
expiration of the extended term (say about 1940
in some cases—l93o in others) —so that the Q.
sheep-kings may fairly assert that in the Bill now
before the Assembly they have a very permanent
thing indeed. The most marvellous feature
about this measure is its cool, tfnbridled auda-
city. Hitherto aggregation has been denounced
in the Q. Assembly as an evil. Pastoralists
have waxed eloquently indignant on the theme,
regardless of the great and damning fact that the
lessee himself has been, in most cases, the aggrega-
tor; legislation prohibiting dummying has been in-
corporated in the statute-book —and now, all of a
sudden, the clauses against dummying areabolished
at one fell swoop, and the lessee is left at liberty
to take up a selection on the resumption of his own
holding, and to get all his friends and relations to
dummy the remainder of the resumption at plea-
sure. It is alleged (by pastoralist advocates) that
abundance of land will be left for selection under
the new scheme. This statement, considering
that land has been selected in Q. for the last seven
years at an average of about million acres per
annum, will scarcely hold water; but, even sup-
posing it were true, the damning fact remains that
there is no provision in the new Bill to ensure that
the resumptions shall be kept for legitimate selec-
tion. Surely Minister O’Connell does not
imagine that, whereas he couldn’t prevent aggre-
gation when dummying was illegal, he will see it
discontinued now when all restrictions are re-
moved and dummying is made a respectable and
reputable practice. This practical permission to
dummy and to aggregate is the worst feature
of all in a Bill abounding in bad features.
If the lessee is to be permitted to select
and aggregate the resumption, then it must
be abundantly evident that the old squatter has
simply become the new aggregator, and that the
change of occupation is merely a nominal one.
The financial institutions are to be congratulated
on the introduction of this measure ; it does credit
to their engineering skill. It will now be possible
for the best lands in W. Queensland to be held
under lease for 40 years from the present date ;
and lands on the Darling Downs and in the Burnett
district, adjacent to the coast, may also obtain a
big extension of tenure —a thing hitherto flouted
as absurd by every man who understands the Q.
land question. Moreover, under the clause
abolishing nearly all restrictions on the sale of
Crown Lands, the very eyes will be picked out
of the western country by big monopolists,
and the future of towns such as Longreach,
Barcaldine and Hughenden utterly blighted.
Since 1859 Queensland has passed Jd Land Bills —
an average of about one per annum. If this Bill
pass in the present form there will be little need
for more land legislation, for with more than half
the land locked up for 30 or 40 years, with the
resumptions dummied by the lessees, and the pick
of the land sold in large blocks to financial insti-
tutions, tli£ hapless Queenslanders won’t have any
public estate left to legislate for.
»
How Somebody Ought to do Something.
The iniquities of the immovable and irreconcilable
and indissoluble and utterly Tory Victorian House
of Landlords roused Melbourne Age the other
day to another of its vague articles about the
necessity of Somebody doing Something. This is
its appeal:—
Ordinarily the Legislative Council is immovable. It
tand9 buttressed by the terras of the Constitution Act so
that it may resist the whole united will of the people.
There are no regular means of making it conform to
reason and good sense. But Ministers with resolution
and knowledge may find means, in an appeal to the
people, of overcoming this stumbling block in the path of
Constitutional government. It is always open to a
Ministry which realises the full responsibility of office to
seek from a direct referendum to the people such direction
as may be its warranty for extraordinary actions. There
are some evils too deeply seated to be remediable by
regular means. The Legislative Council has long
been such an evil. It seems to be culminating
in its career of tactless obstruction. Some of
its members have thrown out warnings that it will
treat Constitutional reform in the immediate future as
it has treated woman suffrage and plural voting abolition
in the past. Ministers have hoped almost against hope
for the best. But the experiences they have received
from the dealings of the Council with the Factories Act
have prepared them for the worst. They have come to a
crisis in which they must either carry forward the
mission they have deliberately undertaken or sink into
deserved contumely and ridicule. . . . The Irvine Go-
vernment has shown a spirit as firm as that of its pre-
decessor was flabhy. We might well wish to see the
mandate of the State peaceably vindicated in its policy ;
but if that be found impossible, in consequence of the
contempt of the Legislative Council, we may hope for a
resoluteness of procedure worthy of the trust of confiding
people.
The Age has published dozens of such articles, in
which it declared that the Upper House was im-
movable, but that Somebody should do Something
to move it. It has never explained what is the
Something that should be done, probably because
it has no settled idea of its own on the subject,
but it has been very wrath against the Somebody
for not doing it. The Bulletin, which reckons
that the kind of reform agitation that consists
in demanding that Somebody not clearly specified
shall do Something not specified at all is a mere
policy of bagging the wind, again offers its
theory:—
That the Victorian House of Landlords should be
abolished and Victoria run with one State House of
Parliament, as most of the Canadian States are run.
That, as one alternative, the Bill which provides for the
abolition should also set forth that the 48 M.’sL.O. shall,
on their abolition, become entitled to a life pension of
£lOOO a year each in recognition of their valuable services
—the latter clause being sarcasm. That proviso would
probably make the 48 Landlords pass the Bill and retire
amid general public contempt. It would cost Victoria, at
most £48,000 a year, and the expense would diminish
rapidly. With the House of Landlords out of the way an
amended Land Tax Act which would bring in another
£lOO,OOO a year would become possible.
That, as another though less promising alternative, the
Assembly, when the Council rejects the Bill, should go on
strike, refuse to pass any estimates, and let the police,
the magistracy, the public service and everything else
disband, and let the strike continue till the House of
Landlords consents to its own abolition.
Will the allegedly democratic Age— the paper
which is supposed to run Victoria —call on the
Ministry to try either of these devices, or find a
workable device of its own ? The bald statement
that Somebody should do Something is weari-
some.
Relief for the Distressed Farmers.
Premier See’s conference, which was to devise
means of relieving the distressed N.S.W. farmer,
duly met, and devised and departed. It met
without much hope, and it separated without
much result. It conceived five ideas for helping
the distressed settlers in a small way out of the
Treasury ; four ideas for helping them in.a larger
way out of borrowed money ; and two ideas for
passing the responsibility on to someone else —11
ideas in all. They may be enumerated thus :
(1) That relief be granted in authenticated instances of
destitution.
(2) That public works be built in the drought areas, the
bill, of course, to be paid for out of loans.
(3) That a large number of public.works—bill, pre-
sumably, payable out of loans —be put in hand. (This is
a curious duplication of No. 2.)
(4) That the Advances to Settlers department make
advances up to £l5OO.
(5) That seed-wheat be lent to farmers.
(6) That rents and land instalments be suspended
where required. , , ,
(7 and 8) That the Australian Government be requested
by the N.S.W. Parliament to suspend the food and fodder
duties for 12 months.
(9) That reduced railway rates be charged on fodder
and starving stock.
(10) Ditto on wheat and flour.
(11) That water conservation works—paid for out of
loans—be pushed on vigorously. (This is, to some
extent, Nos. 2 and 3 over again.)
Some of these ideas are probably about the best
in the way of temporary relief that the case
admits of. Some are an evidence of the incurable-
ness of the borrowing habit. Two of them, how-
ever—those dealing with the suspension of the
food and fodder duties—show a great deal
more evidence of a mean, grudging desire
to create difficulties for the . Australian
Government than to afford relief to the
distressed settlers. The State Parliament
should help itself in this matter—it would help
itself if it had any real desire for the alleged
assistance indicated, unless, its. helpless attitude
merely arises out of a constitutional objection to
do anything that can, by any possibility, be left to
someone else to do. If the N.S.W. Parliament;
decided to import sufficient grain to supply its own
State, or to pay the duty on private importations
for the use of its own State, it would thereby get
all tho relief that it could get by a general
suspension of the duties; it would pay the
duties and get the money back again, which is
just the same as not paying them at all.
And the State Parliament is in session and
able to act. The Australian Parliament
is not in session, and it can’t be gathered
together from the far ends of the continent
at short notice. Therefore the conference really
demands, and the N.S.W. Assembly demands,
that the Australian Government should put
itself into a most dangerous hole by illegally
suspending the food and fodder duties on
its own authority. Also that it should suspend
them in six States on the demand of one State
only—a high-handed proceeding which might
gratify some parochial politicians by enabling
N.S.W. to figure as the State which runs the
whole Commonwealth, but which would assuredly
lead to a lot of trouble. If this proposal did not
arise out of sheer malice, then it was a most ex-
traordinary case of weariness and shirk and
avoidance of personal responsibility.
The alleged strong and spineful Irvine Govern-
ment, which was to carry everything before it like
Bent’s stomach, met with less than the average
amount of luck over the Factories Bill, after all.
The House of Landlords having knocked most of
the essentials out of the temporary renewal
scheme, members of the two Houses met in con-
ference. Premier Irvine and Treasurer Shiels
represented the Government with the Spine, and
put their feet down manfully. Then they
gathered their feet up again. The Bill, as passed
by the Assembly, provided that the new Act
should hold good till December, 1904. The House
of Landlords altered the date to September, and
the conference of the two Houses decided on Octo-
ber. The difference was thus split, but it wasn’t
split in the middle, and the Assembly got the small
end. . The Assembly’s proposal was that all past
decisii ns of the Wages Boards should hold good
while the temporary Act lasted, but that the
Wages Boards should do nothing further till the
whole matter was reconsidered at the end of next
year. The Council proposed to cancel a whole
lot of Boards and decisions and to remove a
number of trades from the control of the anti-
sweating law. Here again there was a compro-
mise. The decisions which the Council objects to
are cancelled, but if the boards care to re-enact
them by seven votes against four (where the board
consists of eleven members), or by four votes
against three (where the board number six mem-
bers), and providing in the latter case that two of
the four are employers, these decisions shall again
have the force of law. This puts the power wholly
in the hands of the employers, so the Council
scores again. When it depends wholly on the
employers’ delegates whether any Wages Board
decision shall be cancelled, it is just as much a
victory as if the employers’ delegates in the House
of Landlords cancelled it at once. Possibly any
ordinary man would have managed no better than
Ikvine did—but then Irvine was to prove quite
unlike any ordinary man. When that alleged
tremendous and overwhelming person, who was
going to allow no interference with the Factories
Act, comes back to the Assembly with a tatter of
the Bill trailing behind him, and says he has
rescued this much from the dog with great diffi-
culty, he gets down to the level of the common
herd.
*
Brisbane Courier, in answer to Drake, who had
been demonstrating to Brisbane that a huge
amount of white labor had been engaged last
season in doing plantation work hitherto deemed
impossible to white men :
It is true a rebate of £18,918 has been paid, but it is
quite wrong- to assert that the cane was grown by white
labor. The proviso of the Commonwealth Qovt. was that
the rebate should be payable on sugar made from cane
worked by white labor since Ist March last. It was im-
material "whether white or black labor had been em-
ployed on it up to that time.
The unfortunate Courier in this simple paragraph
puts the whole case clean away. It has always
been conceded by the planters themselves that
white men could do all the necessary plantation
work—except the trashing and cutting or har-
vesting. But this is precisely the work the white
gangs have been engaged upon since March last—
and engaged upon (as witness amount of rebate
paid) with conspicuous success. The Courier
goes on further to deprecate this success by
alleging that the sugar crop was only small and
there was an exceptionally large supply of surplus
labor. But this is apart from the question. If
the work be impossible to white men (as alleged)
then the large supply of surplus labor isn’t going
to perform any miracles. The fact is—the
Australian Govt., by its white labor policy, has
just successfully demonstrated how many lies have
been told about this sugar industry, and some of
the liars don’t like it.
»
Maokinnon, of Prahran, is the only member of
the Victorian Assembly who has had the courage
to ask the straight question whether the Mallee
country is worth saving. It is his opinion that
instead of spending a million, as the Iceberg
Reform Government proposes to do, in taking a
miserable little stream of water to the mallee
settlers, Victoria should spend three millions in
transplanting them to a portion of the State
where there is a sufficient rain-fall. It cannot be
denied that if the Mallee possessed the water-
supply proposed by the Irvine Government at
the present time it would not prevent the disaster
of the drought. Without grass, that can not be ob-
tained save through a rainfall, the Mallee farmers
would be as helpless as they are now. A com-
petent man who has just completed a trip through
the drought area asserts that if the Government
wants to save the Mallee settlers a sum of £200,000
of public money must be loaned to them on the
security of land already loaded up to its full
mortgage values. Then the recent dust-storms in
the Mallee have raised another serious question.
After the storms had passed it was found that
two-thirds of the tanks and channels had been
filled up with shifting sand. The channel to take
a dribble of water to the Mallee from the Goulburn
river will cost £500,000 to construct. What will
it cost to clean out when it is filled with sand,
perhaps a year after its completion ?
N.S.W. Government docks don’t pay. Returns
regularly indicate that, and the reason why they
do not is often a harassing mystery. Calico
Jimmy, from his place in Parliament, always puts
it down to the fact that the Government has in-
terfered with private enterprise. Here is a little
fresh light on the subject. The Public Works
Committee was examining Mr. Keele, Principal
Engineer, Harbor and Rivers Branch, about a
proposed graving dock at Newcastle :
Mr. M'Gowen : What I want to know is, have the
Imperial authorities in New South Wales a right to go
into Sutherland Dock, and only to pay you just the actual
cost of wages?—Yes.
And practically 75 per cent, of the vessels docked belong
to the Imperial authorities?—Yes.
And our own vessels have to give way ? —Yes.
Have any cases occurred where the Government has
been put to extra expense through being compelled to
shift ?—Well, not lately, but cases have occurred.
And does this kind of thing apply to the Fitzroy Dock ?
—Yes, to either.
Is it any wonder, now, why these Government docks
don’t pay ?—Not at that rate.
The Imperial authorities, then, have the right to go into
these docks, turn out your own State boots, and do not
allow you a penny for wear and tear?—Yes ; that is what
has been done.
Will Calico Jimmy paste that evidence in his hat?
And will the Government forthwith revise those
unbusinesslike and absolutely crooked arrange-
ments with the Imperial authorities ?
»
The attitude assumed by Victorian Premier
Shiels in replying to a deputation of printers,
who complained about prison competition, seems
hard and unsympathetic, but there is no possible
doubt that it is the only logical attitude. It is
impossible to keep prisoners idle, unless they are
to go mad in solitary confinement, or else hang
about in droves in the gaol-yard, and learn to be
confirmed loafers, and spend their time planning
new crimes, and come out ten times worse than
they went in. To employ them on absolutely use-
less labor is demoralising, and teaches them
nothing in the way of earning an honest liveli-
hood—also, it prevents them earning anything
towards their own maintenance. To set aside
one or two trades as exclusively prison
trades would mean that the means of live-
lihood the prisoner learned in gaol would
be of no use to him when he came out.
If prisoners are employed at any occupation that
can possibly help them into the paths of honest
industry when they are set free, they must com-
pete with outside labor in some way. The
printers recognised this, and suggested that instead
of prisoners competing against them they should
take to some other line of business and compete
against somebody else —which is strictly human
nature. But, after all, the goods made for outside
use in all the prisons in Australia are probably
not worth £lOO,OOO a year, while imported goods,
which are equally detrimental to local industry,
represent £42,000,000.


THE LARGEST AND BEST IN THE WORLD I
The Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York
NET FUNDS, January 1, 1902, £71,976,776.
Principal Agency in Australasia; Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
Z. O. BENNIE, General Manager.
ħ
C 3-0 TO TTViT.T
JGOLANT) for Pretty Stamps, but
If you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Xmas Number
- “The Bulletin”
will be published on
Thursday, 11th December.
“The Bulletin’s” Xmas Number has always been
good. It will be good this time.
Single copies posted to any Australian address for 7d.,
abroad Bd. 1
SAWMILL machinery.
Single and Double Cutting BAND MILLS for
hardwood logs, CIRCULAR SAW MILLS, Com-
plete Outfits of any capacity. Band Resaws,
Engines and Boilers.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 CLARENCE BTREET, SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum “ White Heather.”
Royal Melba.
Criterion “A Trip to Chicago."
Tivoli Rickards’Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ A Royal Rival.”
Her Majesty’s “Paul Jones.”
Bijou “ Little Lord Fauntleroy."
Theatre Royal “ A London Arab.”
Opera House Rickard’s Variety Co.
New Olympia.... ...... f Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus.
(Princes’ Bridge) (. b
These few remarks are all that this paper
feels equal to making about the Sydney Royal
show this week. That commendable but, in some
respects, rather ridiculous play is still on deck,
and the Constable’s armor shines like a new tin
billy, but the days of its glare are numbered. It
will cease to clatter on Friday, after a season of
two weeks only. Sydney doesn’t really want to
see any show for more than two weeks, unless it
is musical comic idiocy or melodrama of the
Anderson type —“ The Most Horrible Female in
Greece,” or some such production. “If I Were
King ” has done good business during its short
season, but, it not being a melo-shriek with a
locomotive and a horse-race and a dog-fight, the
management wisely refrains from pushing the
luck too far.
* * * *
Melba gives the first of her three Sydney
operatic performances at the Royal on Saturday—
to consist of two acts of “Faust” and one of
“Rigoletto.” On Wednesday (10th) she gives
three acts of “ La Traviata,” and the next Satur-
day (13th) two acts of “Traviata” and two of
“Faust.” A good many people—writer among
them—would prefer a whole opera to scraps. The
same two acts from “Faust” will be given on both
Saturdays. On the 10th there are to be given the
first, second and last acts of “Traviata,” and on
the 13th the first and second acts of “ Traviata,” so
in three nights the Sydney public is only to see
Melba in less than three operas—about 2J, in
fact. This is going byJast Monday’s advt. Pre-
vious Saturday’s advt. said that the programme
for the 10th was to be three acts of “ Traviata ”
and the mad scene from “Lucia”; and that the
one for the 13th was to be one act from “ Tra-
viata,” one from “Faust,” and the mad scene
from “Lucia.” What future advts. may say the
writer doesn’t know but one man who wanted to
see “Lucia,” and who bought tickets on the
strength of it, is already calling the management
most violent names. Monday’s Telegraph advt.,
by the way, was slovenly enough to tell Sydney
that “ the Melbourne public will doubtless feel
grateful,” &c. Nothing makes Sydney madder
than to be called “the Melbourne public.” t
* * * *
At time of writing there were mfire or
less credible reports of a re-opening of Sydney
Palace with a Sardou play, and a strong cast.
The play (if it is played) deals with Divorce, and
should be a typical Christmas attraction.
* * * *
“ The White Heather,” revived at Sydney
Lyceum last Saturday night, has lost none of its
brightness in the course of time, and its unusual
coherence strikes one with quite a shock. It is
about the only play that deals successfully with a
lost marriage certificate. The document is Scotch
(old Scotch), and can, therefore, be reasonably the
only one of its kind; so when Baker repu-
diates his wife (Harrie Ireland) at a shooting
party, it is a sensible bit of villainy, seeing
that the record of her respectability is shut
up in an iron box in the foundered White
Heather, and that one witness is dead and the
other lost. So the earls and duchesses who have
just finished taking lunch out of doors with their
feet on the tablecloth, repudiate Harrie Ireland for
her alleged immoral conduct, and in the next act
attend a rehearsal where a noble damsel appears
as Lady Godiva, while Bland Holt shows Mrs.
Bland how to hover round her as the spirit of
purity. The play then negotiates successfully
some excellent scenery, including the Great
Ocean Scene and never behaves absurdly
till the last act, when Harrie Ireland’s good
lover brings the missing document into a
fancy-dress ball and forgets to mention the casual
circumstance that her husband is drowned.
There are so many titled men in the drama that
the loss of one or more in the sea is evidently a
matter of no consequence. The story concludes
abruptly with the good lover telling the repu-
diated lady that hope shines ahead (or something
like that) as a graceful way of breaking it to her
that she is a, widow. The dim, weird scene where
the two divers grapple for the proofs of the
heroine’s respectability goes without a hitch. It
needs only the addition of a tame shark or a
length of sea-serpent to make the realism perfect.
* * * *
The acting in “The White Heather”
is up to Bland Holt’s usual high level, ex-
cept that the Scotch accent of some of the
characters is a little variable and apt to go
off in moments of excitement. Miss Harrie
Ireland makes the most of her part as the lady
who didn’t look after her marriage certificate, and
Arthur Styan produces some very good results as
her good lover. Bland Holt and Mrs. Bland are
in their element, and Baker, as a cold, aristocratic
villain, is wholly satisfactory and much better
than he often is as a hero nowadays. Albert
Norman’s death-scene deserves a special mention.
* m * *
“A Trip to Chicago,” revived at Sydney
Criterion, is that desolate old friend, the mother-
in-law joke, supported by the usual personages
who are of so little importance when J. F.
Sheridan is present. There is, as usual, a Con-
siderable amount of dialogue without much
sinking in act 1, and a good deal of variety
business without much else in act 2. The plot
consists mostly in Mrs. Parker’s mother, who is
vulgar, meeting Mr. Parker’s mother, who is
refined, and in nothing particular happening
afterwards, except that Johnny remembers his
Irish ancestors of some hundreds of years ago, and
shows a considerable amount of ankle in con-
sequence. The wild chase of Johnny’s pink-
slippered _ feet after the troublesome son-
in-law is interesting in a rather unin-
teresting way. The Romeo and Juliet duet,
in which John is again himself (another self) as
the type of bashful damsel that is met with on the
burlesque stage, is a better item. Leon Roche is
to be commended for a really good sketch of a
wooden-legged major, and Thomas Curran and
Heba Barlow are appreciated for their duet, “ I’ve
Noticed It.” Miss Celia Mavis takes the leading
part, and the other characters make the usual
hazy impression, so that after they are gone it is
difficult to remember which was which, and which
wasn’t.
* * *
Continental Carnivals have been started
as a private enterprise at Sydney Cricket Ground,
but at the first, which occurred last Monday, the
principal item of the Continental continental is
absent —that is the beer garden. Refreshments
were obtainable at the usual place, the basement
under the grand stand. But you couldn’t
sit at a little table with the girl of your
heart near you, a foaming tankard in front
of you, and waiters running round it to stir up the
froth on it; all under the stars. Band music and
fireworks there were, and a cinematograph
display of a prize fight, which, curiously
enough, delighted the women—perhaps because
the terriflio blows hit a phantom and there
was no gore in sight. If the committee could
see its way to introduce the steeplechase, one of
the strongest attractions of Coney Island and
other American continentals, they would do a
wise and profitable thing. Horses on this steeple-
chase track are wooden, but that only adds to the
gaiety of the carnival. The programme of song-
and-dance and trapeze performance was witnessed
by a great and rather silent audience.
* * * *
Sydney Tivoli gives a cheery show just
now on revivals. The Nawns, the Schenks and
the Harbecks, and those boxing comedians, the
Harvey Boys, make up the chief part of the
programme. Successful music-hall people nowa-
days are always “The Something” in the plural
number.
* * * *
Geoi’ge Musgrove’s suspension of his ordi-
nary Melbourne press-list* during the Melba
season has revived the old, old question as to why
theatrical managers don’t deal with their “dead-
head” grievance in a reasonable, precautionary
way. Under existing circumstances the press-list
is an imposition which managers suffer in silence,
except on the rare occasions when they kick
against it. Musgrove’s kick, in the Melba case,
was honestly contemptuous, whereas he might
have made it mildly apologetic. Every manager
has cause for being embittered against the crowd
of (to him) valueless representatives of newspaper
privilege whose names are “on the door” at his
theatre, but no manager attempts to establish a
system whereby he could ensure fair treatment
from the press on the cheapest possible
terms as regards free admissions. The present
system is chiefly abused by the very men
and women to whom the “courtesy due
to the press ” is not due at all. A
manager can get only one notice of a first-
night performance from one newspaper, large or
small, and that one notice is desirable to him,
otherwise he wouldn’t recognise the existence of
the paper that publishes it. But on a crowded
first night, when every seat in the d.c. is worth
its price, there will be as many as ten or a dozen
deadheads representing, say, one daily-and-weekly
newspaper office’s free-list, and each of these
brings a lady companion, and they all want seats.
The small weeklies are proportionately almost as
bad as the tyrannous dailies. They put six or
more names “on the door,” and the owner of the
name that represents the forthcoming notice in the
paper—the only member of the little staff who is
there on business—is probably the only one who
shows consideration for the management by not de-
manding seats for self and lady. That s how
the imposition goes in an ordinary way. Managers
truckle to the press by sanctioning a ridiculously
lengthy free-list. They want all the notice-
writers and puff paragraphists they can get
to help them. Nevertheless they despise the
press because its genuine theatrical representa-
tives are only about 10 per cent, of the
dead-heads for whom that mighty power is
responsible. Every self-respecting journalist who
knows the facts of the theatrical free-list, sympa-
thises with the managers, and yet blames them
for not making the list a free, fair, and honorable
thing instead of a cause of constant grievance on
the one side and occasional grievance on the
other. Mr. Musgrove showed his business
opinion of free-list pressmen as a class
by advertising the fact that the list
was suspended for the series of Melba opera
performances. Consequently, some of the little
weeklies, with just as much claim to a little con-
sideration as the bigger papers, were not repres-
ented at all. Musgrove didn’t send them a
ticket for one bona-fide reporter, He didn’t send
them a tioket for any of the Melba concerts.
Practically he told those little journals that he
thought he could afford to treat them with con-
tempt in the Melba case, and if they wanted to
advertise these special performances by publish-
ing notices of them they (the “ suspended ” news-
papers) must pay for the privilege. But if a paper
is not worth a free admission, for one person at
least, at all times, why is it ever granted the right
of six free admissions? And by what rule of
reasoning does a manager arrive at a policy of
permitting a whole host of deadheads—3o to 40,
sometimes more—to be imposed upon him by one
newspaper office ?
** m *
“A Country Mouse” will probably be
Musgrove’s Xmas show at Melb. Princess’s. A
muddle-headed public may need instruction on
the point that “A Country Mouse” is a different
play from “Mice and Men.”
** * *
Melba, in the youthful parts of Gilda and
Marguerite, was a bright revelation to the Mel-
bourne that had only seen her as an impressive
platform figure. Melba in “La Traviata” was
astounding. The first, second and fourth acts of
Verdi’s opera require the prima donna to get
inside the emotional character of Camille, or at
least to seem to be inside it. Canaille is at
her sentimental best in those three acts. She
loves; she sacrifices her love at the instiga-
tion of an old gentleman in a grotesque garb
of respectability ; and she dies like a gentle,
gilt-edged sinner. Melba’s artistic perform-
ance was astounding, not so much on its
honest merits as because it couldn’t be reconciled
with the old Australian belief in her alleged cold-
ness and amateurishness. This country had swal-
lowed a hundred and one disparaging remarks
upon Melba’s dramatic powers. It remained for
the great singer (nobody ever found any flies on
her musical celebrity) to come along and show her
native land that her fortune wasn’t all in her
voice and her “ business ability.” We have heard
too much about Melba’s business ability from
people who seem to forget that she is an idol of
the Public in Europe, the Public that only wor-
ships the artist for her art. Melba, as Camille in
the opera, is, firstly, a mighty fine woman;
secondly, a graceful, tearful, absolutely natural
impersonator of a warm-hearted character,
and all the time a thrilling singer. Not
loud and thrilling. Just Melba, suiting the
expression of her voice to the scene, and looking
uncommonly charming as she pours out the
melody. Last week’s one performance included
the Mad Scene from “ Lucia.” Melba sang the
larger half of the “Lucia ” item at one or other of
her concerts. The whole of the scene, as she sings
it in the traditional nightgown, with angel sleeves
and Ophelian smiles and gestures, is a brilliant
effect, but it seems to be pretty much at the
mercy of the flautist who plays the obligato. On
the Wednesday night flautist Griffith’s accom-
paniment was a bit “ off.”
** * *
Musgrove’s dramatic co. is running an
eccentric course. It started its “Moths” at a
Saturday matinee, and terminated the unhappy
flutter the next Saturday night; another romantic
drama, “A Royal Rival,” being appointed to
take place at the Princess’s for the first Australian
time on Monday of this week. Dramas which
introduce themselves to Melbourne on a Monday
can only appeal to the interest of The Bulletin’s
next issue by telegraph-wire, and this particular
drama did not appeal. It is irreligious for a show
to get born on a Monday, except at Easter.
m# * *
“The Mikado ” is going for a second week
at Her Majesty’s, but “Paul Jones” is waiting to
seize the floor. After a four years’ absence (the
advt. said six years), “ Mikado ” was rather more
new than usual. Also, it is at least a brighter
show now than last time, when Lauri played the
boss potentate, and other people, bar Bathurst,
were different from the present co. Lauri, asKo-Ko
instead of the reigning Jap, imparts a new flavor
to the tit-willow ballad, and Florence Young’s
Katisha is a weird, bloodthirsty spinster, with a
tragic leer and a tall top-note. On Saturday next
(6th) Miss Young will change the character of her
smile, and explain what happened to Jones, the
marine apostle.
** * *
At Fitzgerald’s Circus the ruminative cow,
the genial elephant, and a large assortment of
men, horses, and things, continue to chase the
fugitive venison through a wet expanse of water
every evening and two matinees a week. A stag
hunt which embraces an elephant is an aquatio
novelty, anyhow, but it might be improved by the
introduction of Pagel. The Strongest of all
Strong Men should tie his raging lion to a big
dumb-bell, drop it into the 22ft. of water, and
pull it out by the tail. Or he might swim the full
length of the tank with the pony seated on his
back. Pagel is a man of infinite possibility, and
his legs loom larger than ever.
On Saturday night, the Royal patrons
recognised among other old friends in the cast of
“A London Arab” a foreign adventuress, who
marries a dotard baronet (Sterling Whyte) for his
money, and billets on the premises as “brother”
and secretary, her irregular French husband
(H. 0. Willard), also another equally wicked
Mossoo, one Ferdinand (J. L. Lawrence). Un-
fortunately, as it turns out, the much-married
Madame’s first and only lawful husband, Jasper
Hardacre (why not Harddrinker ?), as imper-
sonated by George P. Carey, also chances to be
staying at Yilliers Hall in the private apartments
and wearing the clothes of his old college chum,
Alfred Yilliers (R. Inman), the bart.’s only son,
who is curing Jasper of drunkenness and vaga-
bondage. Three husbands in one house are sure
to fall out. Jasper recognises his wicked Toinette
in the present Lady Villiers. He attempts to
kill her, but his bullet finds a billet instead
in one of the other husbands, the senile
Bart., who, seeing his murderer in sonnie’s
clothes, promptly accuses the luckless Alfred
of parricide, and dies off before he can be
contradicted. With one husband in the grave
and another —viz., .Jasper—immured in a
London den, allowed no beverage but brandy,
Toinette and Mossoo (Willard) look forward
to high jinks. But though Alfred (Inman),
the accused heir, has fled to Johannesburg, his
wife and child are still in England, which means
that before the unrighteous foreigners can enjoy
their ill-gotten gains, abduction, infanticide, and
numerous other crimes must be committed. They
commit them, of course, or try to, but in the end
their sin finds them out, and police, handcuffs, and
gallows embitter their “ closing march, their last
march to the grave.” Bert Bailey as an Irish
policeman, “a proper broth of a bhoy of aleadhin’
Oirish family —a family'that’s always led pigs and
oows and things about "—does the very best possible
in the part. Gladys Hughes, as the London Arab,
also makes a brave attempt to impersonate an
urchin with the heart of an angel, the spirit of a
hero, the appearance of a gutter-snipe, and the
appearance of a stage costermonger. As the
child of the diabolical Toinette and the broken-
down swell Jasper, the youngster must have “ cast
back ” to some extra-special ancestor for his many
excellences. Temple Harrison, as a comic page,
Maud Gwynne, as the persecuted hero’s tearful
wife, and Pattie Hughes, as the child of last-named,
all deserve praise. Rural England, London
Bridge and the African veldt all have more than
justice done them in really beautiful scene-
settings.
** * *
“ Little Lord Fauntleroy,” smartly-staged
at Melbourne Bijou, seems well worth a revival
for the first time in 13 years. The tone of Mrs.
Burnett’s story is rather painfully feminine as
regards “ birth ” and “ station,” yet the authoress
illustrates her reverence for the British Peerage
with a truthful picture of a deplorable old earl.
Although the comedy preaches the greatness of
family titles, pedigrees, and ancestral vaults, it
permits one person of middle-class extraction to
be treated, in the last act, as a suitable widow
of a real earl’s youngest son, and a quite
presentable mother of the next heir' to the
title and estates. Also Hobbs, the grocer, and
Dick, the shoeblack, figure as deserving.specimens
of plebeian ignorance. But this concession to the
lower orders strikes one as being due to the fact
that Hobbs and Dick are ardent admirers of His
Little Lordship. If they didn’t love society they
would not belong to the deserving class. The
only character in the play who treats society with
scorn is Minna, and she turns out to be a bigamut
of the worst description.
* » * *
“Little Lord Fauntleroy” lias to stand,
or fall, by the performance of Sydney Halliday
in the name part. It stands. The Fauntle-
roy whom Melbourne remembers at the Prin-
cess’s of yore was a girl, or rather, two girls—
Olive Berkley and Grade Hopkins. They played
the part alternately. One was less tall and round
than the other, but neither of them was a boy that
any observant mother could possibly accept as
genuine. Now, Syd. Halliday is a boy after every
woman’s own heart. He wears no ringlets, and he
puts on no frill, and is a little brick of a lad, who
probably beats the record as a 9-year-old actor.
All things considered, little Syd.’s bright, inter-
esting performance on Saturday night was a won-
derful feat. Hawtrey and co. give the star
kiddie some good enough support, though they
might be considerably better in spots. Oily
Deering is a cheerful, extravagant Hobbs,
and Hawtrey will, no doubt, develop into
a. first-class noble grandfather, in spite of
his nasal accent. Gregan MacMahon and Heggie
play a couple of character parts capably,
and Miss Nicnolls, as “ Dearest,” is very satisfac-
tory in the first act. In the last act she is other-
wise. Minna (Miss Hilda Wright) is a restless,
improbable sort of adventuress, and the footman
at Dorincourt Castle ought to be discharged
without a month’s wages,
** * m
Maggie Moore has turned up at Adelaide
Royal after long absence, asa “Widowfrom Japan.”
She also plays the same old “Chinese Question,”
and is much the same plump Sam Lee Loo as of
old. The management has wisely inaugurated
summer prices—3, 2 and 1. At the Tivoli,
Howard Vernon (who ran up against a heat-wave
at starting) has boldly got down to 2,1, and |.
‘ 1 The Parisians ” proved to be a version of Robert
Maeaire’s adventures, helped out with miscel-
laneous music. Its topical allusions are of the
Hopetoun and Federation and Pretoria era; and
Victor Prince, as principal support, introduces
mother-in-law and whisky ballads into Parisian
high-life as freely as he did into the Katskill
Mountains.
In the old black-lettered pages of the dead and
buried ages you may chance to read a story of
how France lay desolate ;
How King Louis’ scared commanders saw the
motley hordes of Flanders like crows and"
vultures gathered at their city’s crumbling
gate ;
How the city’s heart was sinking, and the aged
king was drinking with a hangman in a house
where malefactors used to dine ;
He heard his country calling, and he heard his
kingdom falling, and he saw the flames of
ruin reflected in his wine.
In disguise he sat there thinking—this aged king,
and drinking, while outside the hordes of
Flanders like swarms of demons raved ;
And his soul was dark with curses, but just then
some martial verses were recited by a poet,
who said that France might yet bo saved.
And King Louis dropped his beaker, and King
Louis spilled his liquor, and he stood up in
that tavern (so runs the old romance) ;
His act was rather sudden, and his motives some-
what hidden, but that poet (who wasn’t sober)
he made Constable of France.
Then the raging hosts of Flanders, and their
banners and commanders, that poet (when he
got sober) blew to all the winds of earth ;
And the king, no longer feeling that the throne
of France was reeling, remarked unto the
hangman that this was a bard of worth.
The tale is fair in seeming, and it set this writer
dreaming of something that niight happen in
these dull, prosaic days—
And he dreamt the Boers had risen, and Roberts
was in prison, and Kitchener was dead, and
all the land was in a blaze.
The empire fast was falling, and for counsel all
were calling, and some said we should fight,
and some, we should negotiate ;
From the Shetlands down to Surrey there was
chaos, rush and hurry; there was frenzy on
the Mile-End Road and wrath in Billingsgate.
All were crazy, saint and sinner ; and the King
had had no dinner, for the cook had gone
demented and the kitchen fire was out,
And King Edward in disguise was eating mutton
pies in a restaurant when, casually, a rumor
went about,
That in a room adjoining, Victor Daley then was
dining, and while he dined was writing out a
poem on a slate,
Then the king burst in disordered, and there and
then he ordered him to bring along his poem,
and they yet might save the State.
But a ghostly king sat thinking when they were
gone, and drinking; and a ghostly hangman
faced him where the bard had sat that night,
And their souls were full of curses as they pondered
o’er the verses, for they were better far than
those that Villon used to write.
But through the muddy highways, and by short
cuts through the bye-wavs, the poet and the
monarch ran like furies to the camp,
Where the army, few in numbers, lay uneasy in
its slumbers, and they read the poem to it by
a dim and flaring lamp.
And it stated with a roar, if it had heard these
lines before, it would have knocked the
Dutchmen endways when first they chanced
to meet.
Then, refreshed, it took its gun, at the rising of
the sun, and trod the base invader in the dust
beneath its feet.


TRAMWAYS. TRAMWAYS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Proprietary, Ltd-
h
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material
|D*~ Locomotives from 10 t 0250 h.p. -m
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel
Sleepeis, Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &e. Technical
advice gratuitously rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated
Catalogues and Photographic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different
parts of the World, upon application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
INSURE
WITH
THE
PH CEIMIX
Assurance
Company
Limited.
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-streeb, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,"
Melbourne.*
* * * *
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-street, Melbourne,
having returned from his visit to England, is now pre-
pared to purchase approved Mines and Mining Properties
situated in any part of Australasia requiring Capital for
Development and Machinery. Only genuine and
legitimate ventures, capable of bearing the strictest
examinations, will be entertained.*
* * * *
A revolution in smelting furnaces seems pro-
bable. The aid of gasoline has not been recognised.
Ernest de Beer, 439 Bourke-street, Melbourne, supplies
forms to suit assayers, which are marvellous in their
efficiency.*
* » * *
There is not a headache in a case of Invercauld
(Scotch) or Brigadier (Irish) whisky. They are mild
mellow, and matured. Bennell and Bennell, Creek St.,
Brisbane. Ina, Ooope and Co. celebrated English Pale
Ales.*
• • * *
Complaints of stagnation in the engineering
trade are as rife as ever, but, judging by the large stock
of Refrigerating and Ice-making machinery now at the
engineering works of Mephan Ferguson, Melbourne, he
must expect to do a large business in these machines
during the coming summer season. The prices for all
sizes have been greatly reduced, and purchasers are
invited to inspect and test these Refrigerators before
purchasing. This firm has also introduced up-to-date
machinery for manufacturing bolts and nuts, rivets, dog
spikes and every discription of ironwork.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S. W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
About the best Brand for Sheep now in the
market is Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and
is considerably cheaper than any other. It will dissolve
in the scour, and should certainly be used by those who
hope to get a good price for their wool. E. Rich and Co.,
S3'dney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* * » •
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£494,910 is invested in the States. Lowest rates and
prompt settlements.*
* < * *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Price Is. 6d., post free.*
• • * *
The best investment in Australia is buying land
at Esperance, Western Australia, the natural port of the
Kalgoorlie goldfields. With a railway, Esperance will
become one of our busiest ports, as the trade with the
goldfields will pass through it. A permanent survey is
now being made. The railway is a certainty. Get in
early and make a fortune by purchasing a few blocks
before the great rush sets in. Price, £2O block ; terms,
£1 a month. Write for plans and particulars to The
Perth Land Company, 101 Swanston-street, Melbourne.*
• • * * .
The Finest Rubber Mills in the Southern
Hemisphere have been erected in Melbourne by the
Dunlop Tyre Co. who are now prepared to execute orders
(in any quantity) for Suction, Drill or Air Hose, Packing,
Valves, etc. Mine Managers may place orders with the
Dunlop Company with the greatest confidence as to
quality, price and workmanship. Correspondence
invited.
* * • •
The Insurance Record, London, writes of the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society’s latest report:—
“ The affairs of the Society are managed on sound and
economical lines, care is exercised in the selection of new
business and prudence in the investment of money is a
leading principal.”*
* * * •
The Gardner Electric Rock Drill which has
been lately introduced into Australia is being very
largely adopted in the mines of the United States, and is
giving great satisfaction. This electric drill is filling a
long felt want, now that electricity is being so largely
adopted for all mining purposes. The Gardner Electric
Drill is very simple and easily handled, and drills as fast
as the air drill, and costs much less to instal in a mine,,
especially in out of the way places. It requires only one
fifth of the power required to operate an air drill doing,
the same work, so the saving in fuel soon pays its
cost. The Gardner Drill at the North Gippsland
Proprietary mine, Victoria, has been in use for eight
months, and has done all the drilling for a tunnel 1500 feet
in very hard country, and the Manager speaks highly in
praise of it. The Tarcoola Blocks Company, South
Australia, has ordered a complete equipment for 6electric
drills and lighting plant, for the mine to be worked by
an oil engine of 16 horse power. The Sole Australian
Agents, the Austral Otis Engineering Co. South
Melbourne, will supply catalogues and estimates on
request.*
• * * *
Wm. Logan, chief vendor of the Ida H., Laver-
ton (W.A.), to “Boulder King” Waddington, has just
left for London, to beard the lion in his den. His
grievance is that his scrip is unsaleable, as the directors,
for obvious reasons, omitted to apply to the Stock
Exchange Committee for a special settlement for the
vendors’ scrip, without which application no dealings on
’Change are sanctioned or recognised. Same game was
played in the case of the Windsor Consols, with the
result that vendor, in ignorance of this custom, found
himself and family stranded in London.
Annual Premium Income exceeds £1,500,000. Losses
Paid, £26,000,000. The PHCENIX covers (£102,000,000)
one-tenth of London’s Fire Insurances. The PHOENIX
is the largest purely Fire Company in the world. The
PHCENIX Policy for £3,474,030, on which premium of
£33,821 is annually paid, is the largest Policy ever issued
by any Company. Cash Bonus of 10 per cent, allowed off
all Premiums. Applications for Agencies invited.
WILLIAM N. FARMER, Manager, 17 Bond St., Sydney.
INSIST ON GETTING
m 2
Surf
SuJeet'^liced/Aango;
, GheenA\ango,Caj>hmeis
MADRASI -
ĥ
The Wild Cat Column.
Some banking statistics compiled from latest
available balance-sheets :
Interest earned Dividend per
per annum on t II
Bank. shareholders’ annum .
total funds.
New Zealand (a) .. ..£34 9 0 p.O. 5
National of N.Z 17 12 7 „ 10
Queensland National .. 11 14 4 „ Nu
Australasia 11 1 5 „ 11
VVestralia (W.A.) .. ..913 >t 17J
Royal (Melbourne) .. .. 8 2 1 „
Union 713 3 „ 8
Adelaide (S.A.) .. .. 712 2 „ 8
New South Wales .. .. 7 3 5 ,» 10
Commercial (Tasmania) ..7 211 „ 8
Colonial (Melbourne) .. 616 10 „ J
E.S. and A. (6) .. .. 614 0 „ 3J
Ballarat (Vic.) .. .. 50 11 ~ 0
Commercial (Sydney) .. 6 0 9 „ 10
National (Tasmania) .. 418 9 , t o
f Pref... 6
National (Melbourne) .. 4 810 „ j q f( j ** [ gj.
/Pref.!. 5
Victoria (Melbourne) ..421 „ 1 Q r( j ' gj.
f pref. 34-
Royal (Queensland) .. 317 0 ~ (Ord. . 3
North Queensland .. .. 312 1 „ 2J
Commercial (Melbourne) .. 311 6 „ Pref... 3
City (Sydney) .. .. 3 210 „ 4
London 211 5 „ Pref... 5£
Aus. Deposit and Mortgage 6 7 „ „ .. 1
A. 510 „ Nil
When the last list was published in this column (14th
June, 1902) it showed three non-dividend-paying banks ;
since then, the Bank of New Zealand has got back on to
the dividend list and reduced the blanks to two. As
regards their relative positions, the two Maorilaud banks,
the Queensland National, Australasia, Westralian Bank,
Royal of Melbourne, E.S. and A., Commercial of Sydney,
City of Sydney, and London occupy the same position on
the list as they did six months ago. The Union, N.S.W.,
Commercial of Tasmania, Ballarat Banking Co., National
(Melbourne), Victoria, Royal of Queensland, and Aus-
tralian Deposit and Mortgage Bank stand higher on the
list than they did ; while the others are iower. Six
months ago the Australian Deposit and Mortgage Bank
was last, and the A.J.S. second last. Now the positions
are reversed.
Some further statistics are as follows. The five
banks that make their returns only once a year are placed
in a separate category
Result of Last Year’s Work.
Paid in Added
Bank. Profit. Divi- to Re- Reserveg>
dends. serves.
New Zealand (a) .. £147,216 £21,366 £23,474
National of N.Z. .. 64,933 25,000 £39,933 158,227
Adelaide .. .. 45,925 32,000 13,925 217,423
E.S. &A. (6) .. 42,907 18,880 23,606 124,387
London (c) .. .. 23,354 9,456 13,898 5,790
Result of Last Half-year’s Work.
Australasia (d) .. 144,468 88,000 40,468 1,049,705
New South Wales.. 118,229 100,000 18,229 1,315,279
Union (e) .. .. 96,714 60,000 11,714 1,036,213
Commercial (Syd.).. 51,254 50,000 1,254 1,035,392
Commercial (Melb.) 38,434 31,758 6,676
National (Melb.) .. 35,038 28,512 6,526 85,600
Victoria .. ~ 33,323 28,991 4,332 149,636
Q’land National (/) 25,605 3,000 27,000
Colonial (Melb.) .. 16,264 10,961 5,303 43,065
Westralian .. .. 15,489 8,750 6,739 248,536
Royal (Q’land) .. 9,024 6,700 2,324 57,404
Commercial (Tas.).. 8,906 5,943 2,963 110,778
City (Sydney) .. 8,016 8,000 16 110,097
Royal (Melb.) .. 7,095 3,750 3,345 28,465
National (Tas.) .. 4,472 3,991 481 29,648
Ballarat 3,689 2,550 1,139 62,402
A.J.S. (g) .. .. 2,043 22,883 259,590
North Queensland.. 2,038 1,313 725 13,808
Aus. Deposit* Mortgage 1,522 2,793 10,333
(а) In the case of the Bank of New Zealand the
£2,000,000 raised for 10 years at 4 per cent, under State
guarantee is treated as a fixed deposit. The profits, after
paying interest on this and covering the losses of the
Assets Realisation Board, represent £34 9s. per cent, on
the private shareholders’ permanent capital. Last year
£125,850 was written off towards covering old losses.
(б) E.S. and A. Bank’s figures areforyear to June, 1901,
the balance-sheet for 1902 not being yet available. In
addition to the trading profit of £42,907 a sum of £579
was apparently realised by the repurchase of depreciated
deposits. On the other hand, £lOOO was applied as a
bonus to staff.
(c) London Bank had a deficit of £BlOB from previous
year to write off.
(d) The Bank of Australasia wrote off £16,000.
(e) Union Bank wrote off £25,000.
if) Queensland National Bank wrote off in various ways
£22,605.
( g ) A.J.S. Bank had a trading profit of £2043, and made
£20,840 by repurchase of its depreciated deposits. Out
of the reserve of £259,590, £184,887 was made by the re-
purchase of deposits.
• * • •
The Queensland Government is never behind-
hand at borrowing, however it may lag in other respects.
Treasurer Cribb proposes to float a £600,000 loan at 4 per
cent., repayable in 10 years. Of this, £431,939 is to cover
last year’s deficit, and the other £168,061 is on account
of the deficit which Philp and co. expect to have next
June. The Treasurer who borrows money on account of
the deficit he has is common enough, but the one who
borrows on account of the shortage he is going to have
next June, is a rare and “ forehanded ” person. Treasurer
Cribb ascribes his troubles largely to the Australian
Govt.’s diminished returns in the way of customs revenue,
but seeing that a leading feature of the Federal compact
was that inter-State customs were to be abolished and the
inter-State revenue lost, the Philp Government surely
foresaw something of the sort. The fact that it is only
now beginning to do a little in the way of imposing new
taxes to take the place of those abolished, with its full
concurrence, a year ago, is to its everlasting discredit.
• * • *
Last financial year Tasmania paid, in all forms
of taxation, about £2 15s. Bd. per inhabitant, of which
10s. went to make up the railway deficit, leaving £2 ss. Bd.
per inhabitant for general purposes, or about £1 or £1 ss.
per head less than the tax rate in England. After it had
paid interest on public debt, the whole island was run —
education vote, justice, prisons, police, public works,
Parliament, Governor, and all —for £361,000. It is the
most cheaply-governed State in Australasia, by many
miles. But the abolition of inter-State customs duties
leaves a deficit of £122,000, and the local press is almost
unanimous in its opinion that this amount should be
saved out of the £361,000, without damaging the efficiency
of the public service, in order to obviate new taxation.
Getting a quart into a pint jug is a fool to this.
* * * *
“ W.R.P.” (Queensland): Most investing shares
are down at present because the price of money has gone
up. The bad harvest, losses of stock, Government
deficits, and a dreadful fear that Bull is going to stop
lending have sent many reasonably good stocks down
enormously. And ordinary shares (which, of course, will
get no dividend if profits fall so that there is only enough
to give the preference shareholders their 5 per cent.) are
never likely to bevery high. Still you get 10 per cent.
Call 5 per cent, interest on your money. Apply the other
5 per cent, to write down the value of the share's in your
books till they stand at nil. After that everything you
get is clear profit.
• « f «
B. Water Supply, Ltd., has 16 years more in
which to get back its capital ; the whole conoern then
falls in to the State without compensation. Though the
supply is quite insufficient for the mines and town, even
the Owe’Sullivan is not inclined to spend a lot of money
on a brand-new scheme which may knock out what in a
few years’ time will be the Government’s own property.
As a compromise, it is therefore proposed that the
State should advance the £3OOO or so said to be necessary
to supplement the present supply by tapping another
creek which, like Stephens Creek itself, runs for an hour
or two perhaps twice in three years, the co. paying
interest until it gives up possession of the entire show.
Or, as an alternative, it is suggested that the co. put its
reserve into the supplementary works on the Govt, payuig
not on a valuation, but the original cost, when it telMs
them over.
* * * *
The Intercolonial Investment, Land and
Building 00. (Sydney)
Added
Written to Re- ' Re-
Proflts. Dividends. off. serves. serves.
1891 £6,287
1892 £lOOO Nil. £lOO6 7,293
1893 831 Nil. £5OO 331 7,624
1894 1822 Nil. 1000 822 8,446
1895 3209 Nil. 3557 8,098
1890 6854 10 p.c. =£3200 769 2885 10,983
Forfeited Capital carried to Reserves 1781 12,764
1897 6123 10 p.c. 3295 1000 1828 14,592
1898 4916 8£ „ „ 2785 2131 16,723
Forfeited Capital carried to Reserves 512 17,235
1899 4235 7 p.c.= 2325 1910 19,145
Foifeited Capital carried to Reserves 16 19,161
1900 4392 7 p.c.= 2339 2053 21,214
1901 4911 7 „ „ 2448 2463 23,677
1902 6261 7 „ „ 2537 2724 26,401
The reserves consist of reserve fund, £18,500; dividend
equalisation account, £3500; forfeited capital, which
isn’t added to any fund but straggles by itself in the
balance-sheet, £2310; and profit balance, £2091. It
would certainly be much more business-like to consoli-
date these miscellaneous sums, and have a reserve-fund
of £26,000, and carry forward £4Ol. The Intercolonial
is one of the most prosperous of the Australian land com-
panies, and its earnings represent over 14 per cent, on
capital; but its way of investing everything it can lay its
hands on looks a trifle risky. The assets total £90,313, of
which £90,199 consists of property and mortgages, £lO5
is furniture, and £9 cash. The latter item seems to be
all that is held in the way of liquid assets against £26,018
of miscellaneous liabilities (bank overdraft, deposits, &c.).
The policy of keeping no money lying idle or invested in
low-interest-bearing liquid securities doubtless pays in
ordinary times. Whether it will pay all the time is an-
other question.
* • • *
N.S. Wales Government is finding, to its sur-
prise, that a great part of what it has done in the way of
cheap railway freights for “ starving stock ” and for
fodder has benefited nobody but speculators and scow-
bankers. The Railway Commissioners, for instance, have
noticed that “this has been looked upon as such a
matter-of-fact arrangement that a produce-agent has had
a rubber-stamp prepared and consignment-notes en-
dorsed, “to be used to keep starving stock alive.’’ In
another case “ a considerable quantity of maize was con-
signed under this description, whereas, as a matter of
fact, it was retailed in the ordinary way of business by a
storekeeper, and was not used for starving stock at all."
• • • *
The North Queensland Insurance Co. (Syd-
ney) closed a very successful year on 30th September,
1902:
Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1892.. £3,920 5 per cent. = £2672 £1,248 £7,111
1893.. 4,669 5 ~ „ 2672 1,997 9,108
1894.. 3,399 5 „ „ 2672 727 9,835
1895.. 3,113 6 „ „ 2672 441 10,276
Loss.
1890.. 776 Nil 9,500
Profits.
1897.. 10,688 6 percent. = 3206 7,482 16,982
1898.. 1,089 4 „ „ 2138 15,933
1899.. 4,174 5 „ „ 2672 1,502 17,435
1900.. 14,064 8 „ „ 4275 9,789 27,224
1901.. 15,291 8 „ „ 4285 11,006 38,230
1902.. 11,629 8 „ „ 4295 7,334 45,564
The North Queensland Insurance Co., after a long period
of comparative leanness, has had a series of remarkably
good years; out of its reserves of £45,564 no less than
£28,129 (considerably more than half) have been accumu-
lated in the last three years. The investments look
especially good, being mostly Government securities and
bank deposits. The income from investments last year
was £3400 —equivalent, in itself, to rather more than a
6 per cent, dividend. In addition to the reserves shown
above, an unusually large amount (£38,800) has been set
aside to meet known or possible claims, which is a further
good point in the co’s character. As an evidence of the
expansion of the business, these are the gross premiums
collected in various years :
1892 .. £47,828 I 1898 .. £107,712
1895 .. 71,695 | 1902 .. 158,007
This is something unusual in the way of expansion. At
the same time the profits, large as they have been during
the last three years, have not been so consistently large
over the last 11 years as those of some concerns which do
business in a more restricted area. The North Queens-
land Insurance Co. trades in Bombay, Calcutta, Colombo,
Madras, New York, Natal, San Francisco, Singapore,
China, Japan, Manila—in fact it spreads over a very large
section of the earth, and that kind of business is generally
unprofitable in the end. The North Queensland is the
most cheaply-managed insurance co. in N.S.W., and one
of the most cheaply-managed in Australia, which is the
whole secret of its success. If its expense rate had been
equal to the average rate of N.S.W. offices, instead of
adding £38,000 to its reserves in the last 10 years it would
have had to cut down its dividends heavily to avoid
showing a loss.
• * * *
Last year, the ordinary shareholders of Farmer
and Co. received 13J per cent, dividend, and those of
Robert Reid and Co. and D. and W. Murray and Co. 10
per cent. The importer-men make fine large profits, as a
rule, which profits mostly go to English shareholders,
and they employ comparatively little Australian labor,
and what they do employ is none too well paid. The
manufacturer employs, in proportion to his output, five
times as much labor, pays it better as a rule, seldom
screws more than 6 per cent, dividends out of it, and in
most cases spends his profits in Australia. Yet the im-
porter, with his 10 and 13J per cent, dividends, is never
tired of wailing about the manufacturer’s “ rapacity.”
« * * *
This (to Sept. 30) is not B. H. Block 10’s worst
half-year; but it is so close to it that you couldn’t tell
the difference without looking hard. Back in ’94 and ’95
the co. had some very bad times (that was before it got
its sulphide mill going); but since then there has been
none worse, and only one as bad. Its career since the
former turn in the tide came has been as follows :
Hail-year Net
to Profit. tQna- siiver. Lead.
Sept.,’9o.. 5,740 2* 5*7-8 U 7 *0
Mar., ’97.. 23,340 2 5| 11 10 5
Sept.,’97.. 23,634 2 3 12 6 8
Mar., ’98.. 20,546 53,866 2 2 7-16 12 16 3
Sept.,’9B.. 40,209 64,212 2 3 13 2 10
Mar., ’99.. 50,723 68,216 2 3 9-16 13 11 4
Sept.,’99.. 57,481 77,185 2 311-16 14 10 11
Mar., ’OO.. 46,762 69,183 2 3£ 15 14 9
Sept.,’oo.. 51,747 72,246 2 4 17 6 9
Mar., ’Ol.. 22,811 77,651 2 2 5-10 15 111
Loss.
Sept.,’ol.. 129 81,852 2 3J 12 3 3
Profit.
Mar., ’02.. 5,386 42,847 2 1) 11 4 6
Sept.,’o2.. 1,284 42,825 2 0 3-16 11 5 9
Latterly the “ net profit ’’ shown has really been gross
profit and a bit over sometimes. Nothing has been
written off for wear and tear of mine plant since the end
of ’99, and nothing for the exceedingly heavy deprecia-
tion of the ore-dressing plant since the end of 1900.
Comparing the last two half-years the result for that
ended March was rather better than it looked; for that
ended September rather worse. The £5386 remained
after refunding £2459 overpaid on a zinc-tailings’ sale in
’9B; the £1284 is arrived at by adding to the working
profit (£107) interest on the co.’s reserves and £564
refunded by the Income Tax Commissioners. Practically,
on actual mining, the co. just made ends meet with silver
averaging 2s 0 3-16 d. and lead £ll ss. 9d. And, as the
present quotation for silver is Is. 10§d., and for lead
£lO 155., the co. must be losing money now; although
against this loss must be set several things—(l) it is
accumulating zinc products which, later on, may be of
value (they contain more than half of the silver, nearly
all the zinc, arid three-tenths of the lead); (2) it is spending
a fair amount in shaft-sinking and other developmental
work ; and (3) it is filling up worked-out places which, for
the mine’s safety, would have to be filled up, anyway.
About the best hope for Block 10’s future, apart
from the recovery of metal prices, lies in the fact that
it, so far, does not recover anything like half the metal
contents of the ore. It doesn’t recover any at all of the
zinc, if it can help it, and of the other metals the extrac-
tions for some periods past have been :
Half-year to Of the silver. Of the lead.
Sept., 1899 .. 35 percent. .. 62'2 percent.
March, 1000 .. 39'55 „ „ .. 72'31 „ „
Sept., 1900 .. 37-38 „ „ .. 72-78 „ „
March, 1901 .. 39‘8 „ „ .. 72‘89 „ „
Sept., 1901 .. 38-28 „ „ .. 74'41 „ „
March, 1902 ... 41-72 „ „ .. 77'32 „ „
Sept., 1902 .. 40-15 „ „ .. 68-16 „ „
All the Broken Hill mines do this sort of thing ; Block 10
does it more than most. Generally speaking, things have
been gradually getting better, as the foregoing table
shows—that is, down to this last half-year, when, for
some unexplained reason, more of the metal than usual
went over the dump. Most likely the new manager found
that it cost more than it was worth to get out the last
unit or two. And, then, he isn’t interested in showing
that the plant can do clean work ; on the contrary, he
has condemned it, and a new mill is coming. Certainly
there is plenty of room for better results —a plant that
lets 60 per cent, of the silver and 32 per cent of the lead
slide is several streets away from perfection.
* * • •
B.H. Block 14 has been “resting” for most of
the half-year (to Sept. 30), and its report is chiefly a
pretty picture of the fine things it is going to do when
the good times come again and steam is turned on.
“ Recent operations have shown that smelting can be
satisfactorily carried on with but one-third of the pro-
portion of carbonate ore formerly used, and alterations
can readily be made favoring such cheaper working con-
ditions and improved metal recovery as will soon repay
the cost.” Which seems to indicate that the direc-
tors are still bound to the fatuous policy of run-
ning smelting plant on the co.’s own account.
Only a phenomenal mine can do that economically,
and' Block 14 isn’t a phenomenal mine—in fact, it
isn’t even a third-rater. Though it confined itself prac-
tically to the best of its ores, picking out only those
most cheaply smelted without any preliminary treat-
ment, it last half-year dropped £3097. Its financial posi-
tion is about as follows Liabilities: Sundry creditors,
£24,125. Liquid assets : Stores (coal, coke, &c-)> £7lBB ;
ore, &c., £2258; sundry debtors, £465 ; cash, £4602 ;
total, £14,513. Deficiency, £9612. It is to clean the slate
and put a little by that the co. is now undergoing still
one more reconstruction by the issue of 100,000 pref.
shares at 6s. ; of this fresh capital £2557 is shown in this
balance-sheet, and is presumably included in the “ cash ”
mentioned above.
« * * •
What are the Broken Hill mines going to show
at the deeper levels ? The lode has been tested now at
800 ft. in the South, at 1015 ft. in Block 10 (approximately
half way along the line), and at 1037 ft. in the Junction
North, at the other end. The South’s developments have
been remarkably satisfactory. Some of the stopes are
over 145 ft. wide, all solid good-grade ore, assaying about
18 per cent, lead and 9oz. silver, and, though hard, suit-
able for milling. At 1015 ft. Block 10 is now working at
five points ; and it is worth while setting out the average
of last half-year’s assays from each
Silver, Lead, Zinc,
oz. per cent, per cent.
Campbell’s North .. 16.2 16.4 21.3
„ East 15.9 12.9 19
Kelly’s North.. .. 12.8 13.3 19.2
„ N. Drive .. 16.8 16.6 21.3
„ South.. .. 16.4 17 20.2
And for comparison the average of all ore in 1900, when
the big divs. were paid :
Silver. Lead. Zinc.
March, 1900 .. 15T40z. 16-16 per cent. 20’05 per cent.
Sept., 1900 .. 14-560 z. 14-23 „ 18 55
In the Junction North, the lode, where tested at 1037 ft.
by crosscut was 25£ft. wide, for 21-Jft. assaying lOoz.
silver, 17T per cent, lead, and 6‘4 per cent. zinc. Along
this ore body a drive 50ft. long has proved the stuff uni-
form. It has, however, been found that much of the ore
at the deep levels in all the mines is extremely hard, in-
creasing the cost both of mining and of milling, and
largely counterbalancing the improvements which have
been made in the processes. Excluding, perhaps, Block
14 and the British, in which the deeper exploration has
not given average results, it is nevertheless pretty near
the mark to say that down to the deepest levels yet ex-
plored the sulphide bodies show no serious, if any,
deterioration from the average quality of the upper sul-
phide bodies mainly worked in hitherto. The 'Broken Hill
shareholder’s concern, then, is not so much with the
mines as with the metal markets and metallurgical
developments. Taking Block 10 again, on its present
diminished output a movement of Id. in silver and £1 in
lead means just over *6OOO in the half-year ; and in two
years there has been a movement of sd. in silver and
£6 10s. in lead! Though this has been rather sudden,
such movements have always characterised the lead
market. In 1798 the price averaged £l5 10s. ; in 1806,
£35 155.; in 1825, £25 55.; in 1830, £l2 2s. 6d. From ’53
to ’77 it kept steadier at from £24 to £lB 2s. 6d. In the
25 years since 1876 it has been below £lO (average) two
years, £lO to £ll, two ; £ll—£l2, three ; £l2—£l3, five;
£l3—£l4, five ; £l4—£ls, three ; £ls—£l6, one ; £l6
£l7, two; £l7—£lB, one; and £lB—£2o, one. As to
silver it is no use giving such figures, because the whole
position of the silver market has been altered by mone-
tary changes, and there doesn’t seem to be any particular
reason why in its downward career it should stop where
it is.
The recent slump in the tin market (nearly £4
in a week) is probably related in some way to the slump
in silver; they are most likely connected through that
elderly but highly-respectable bore, now happily living in
retirement, the Medium of Exchange. Most of the tin is
got in the Straits Settlements by yellow persons who use
white money ; and the boss yellow person who sells his
tin for gold and pays his men in silver, can afford to sell
his tin for less the more silver he can get for the gold
that he gets for his tin. This isn’t very lucid, but that is
the inevitable result of dragging the Medium of Exchange
into an argument.
• • • •
Though nominally there was no change in the
standard wage at Broken Hill the keen struggle for work
has brought down the average earnings of contract miners
in Block 10 from 10s. 6fd. at the end of last year to 9s. 3d.
in the half-year just finished.
* * * *
Mr. W. J. Barnett, accompanied by Mr. A. S.
Joseph, has been busily engaged for some weeks past in
making an examination of the Great Cobar and other
properties on behalf of the English syndicate to which
they are under offer. Mr. J. D. Kendall, a recognised
American copper mining authority, who has been selected
to report on the proposition, is now on his way to Sydney.
Apropos, big metallurgists get big fees. The man who
was originally asked to report on Great Cobar refused to
come for 7000 guineas—it wasn’t enough, he said (for the
work which, with the sea-travelling thrown in, would
have covered a period of, say, five mouths in all).
• * * *
The Great Australian Quicksilver Co. is making
extensive preparations to test its mine at Yugilbar,
Clarence River, N.S.W. A complete treatment-plant has
been purchased, and is now in course of erection. The
plant has been designed by Dr. Elliott, who is taking an
active interest in the management of the show. The
vendors have every faith in the enterprise, and have
shown this by agreeing to lock up their scrip for a long
period. It is thought that quicksilver will be produced
within three months. Arrangements have been made for
the purchase of the whole of the output on what are con-
sidered satisfactory terms.
Burragorang silver-lead field, near Picton,
N.S.W., is being vigorously worked despite the low
prices of metals, and if the several private parties who
are operating are meeting with anything like the success
of the one registered c.o. the field must be prosperous.
Yerranderie co., during the past half-year, has declared
four divB. of 6d. each and started a reserve fund with
£lOOO. The local lodes are comparatively small, but very
rich in fairly long shutes.
* • • *
The picturesque mining camp of Mt. M‘Donald
(N.S.W.) is now almost deserted, the Hongkong co’s.
having abandoned the field. Three years ago there were
hundreds of men employed, and, to outward seeming, it
was one of the most prosperous camps in the State.
Everyone had plenty “Ohinkies’ money” to spend, and
extravagance ran riot in all quarters in the belief that the
“ Chinkies’ ” purse and patience were like the wizard’s
bottle. Unfortunately it was not Chinese money that
was lavished at the outset, but that of British
speculators, who deserved better luck and treatment.
The three co’s which operated there must have lost fully
£lOO,OOO. Only one mine, Oliver’s freehold, made any
respectable showing. It crushed 22,498 tons for 12,0660 z.
gold, worth £45,000, or an average value of £2 per ton of
ore, yet no profit was returned, which indicates that there
must have been several screws loose.
» » * •
The secretary of the Island Eureka S.M. Co.
(W.A.) describes as misleading a Bulletin paragraph of
of 22nd Nov., with reference to his co. “The battery,”
he says, “is still running full time, and has done so from
the start, with the exception that the original five-head
battery was stopped a short time ago for two days for the
purpose of attaching new cams. The lode is not flat, and
its westerly underlay carries it in the opposite direction
of the Golconda leases, which are situated on the Eastern
and Northern boundaries of the Eureka. There is nothing
to indicate exhaustion of, or falling off in the value of, the
ore reserves.”
(Continued on page 30.)


DAVID JONES & CO.
t
M
HIGH-CLASS HATTERS
Panama Hats
(AS ILLUSTRATION),
37/6, 42/-, 45/= to 63/=.
Genuine Eine-Grade
Hand Selected.
George & Barrack Sts., Sydney
S
W,
£
h
1902 PATTERNS.
All the Latest Styles and
Sizes for Every Class of Work-
AMATEUR
OUTFITS
OUR SPECIALITY.
HARRINGTON
& CO.,
Ltd.
. . LEADING . .
PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHAHTS.
ALL
the Latest
Improved Style
CAHERAS
By the World's Best Makers.
HAND CAMERAS
TRIPOD CAMERAS
POCKET CAMERAS
KODAK CAMERAS
For Ladies
and
Gentlemen
From 5/- up to £5O.
VISIT OUR SHOWROOM or Write
for NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
Harrington & Co. Ltd.
66 KING ST., SYDNEY,
93 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
Agents in all the Principal Centres.
SOCIETY
Writes “ Prooshan” :
Simply sickening is this maudlin sympathy for
murderess Sangal and for she-slayers generally. It’s easy
to get petitions signed by people who didn’t see a blood-
stain or hear the splash at the bottom of the well.
Moreover, “it’s a pity to hang a woman ” ; and, “Tisler
was hanged— surely that's enough?" “And then the
little child, you know!” Now, I believe that these
sympathisers, every one, would hang Selina Sangal high as
Haman had she murdered a relative —or even an
acquaintance—of theirs. But, as it’s the other fellow, it
doesn’t matter. It’s largely the impersonality that counts
in.these cases.
Which is all very well, so far as 2tgoes. But
the level-headed section of the community, though
it didn’t wish to have Mrs. Sangal hanged, hadn’t
the faintest “sympathy” with her. Mrs. Sangal
was reconi mended to mercy by the jury—perhaps
on the “silly-sentimental” ground that she is a
woman and was about to bear a child. But nomatter;
that recommendation deserved respect. If it
was not respected, you would have jurors—one
juror out of a panel of 12 has the power—refusing to
convict any woman of a capital offence. Had Mrs.
Sangal been hanged the next lot of juries would
not merely recommend their murderesses to mercy
—they would themselves dispense mercy, and that
would not be merciful to the community. It’s the
community which The Bulletin is worrying
about, not Mrs. Sangal and her like. If the law
takes too much in any one case it will get nothing
at all in some future cases, and it is certainty of
punishment, not severity, which is society’s first
desideratum.
V * • •
A lady, well-known in Sydney society,
describes in the local D.T. the agonies she endured
while awaiting at the local electoral-office the issue
of her voting-right:
We all had to line-up outside like suppliants for charity,
While two gentlemen in the front rooih sat in state and
solitude “ k deux,” and dispensed the tickets of citizen-
ship to all and sundry. But we were not allowed to tres-
pass in the sanctuary unbidden. We were ordered in one
by one, and sometimes two by two, like the animals in
the Ark. I waited my turn for about 20 minutes, but the
atmosphere of the room drove me to seek the outer air
and abandon my quest. Now, as our Premier is a cour-
teous and kindly gentleman, I am sure he will be willing
to provide decent accommodation to women desirous to
enrol themselves as electors. Why not have a separate
room for women, with a waiting-room attached, so that
we could sit down while waiting our turn to be attended
to.
Quite right. If Premier See is any kind of a
man, he will see that there are at that office several
waiting-rooms fully furnished with afternoon-tea,
puff-boxes, curling-tongs, hand-mirrors, hatpins,
and all the other etceteras.
» » * •
There is a strong similarity between the
case of the Kenniffs and the ’97 trial at
Aramac (0.Q.), of Barker, charged with the
murder of his mate, Ackroyd, at Greyrock, on the
Aramac-Clermont road. The pair camped to-
gether on their way to Clermont, and next morn-
ing a’roo shooter heard shots in the direction of
their camp, but did not investigate. Later on,
Barker was met travelling back, having with him
Ackroyd’s dog and horses, which he afterwards
sold. Ackroyd was never seen again, but, months
after, another ’roo shooter found in the ashes of a
fire, several charred pieces of human bones, a
portion of a skull with a tomahawk-mark in it,
and a purse-clasp, identified as having been Ack-
royd’s. As in the more recent case, the difficulties
were the absence of an actual body, and the bare
possibility that Ackroyd might still be alive.
Anyhow, the charge broke down, though Barker
{a notorious criminal), got a long sentence on
another charge. Throughout the trial the case
received little notice from the press (except
locally), which seems to show that big head-line 3
in the leading dailies go far towards securing for
a man the privilege of a drop-kick.
* • * •
The vagaries of people who win money in
“Tatt.’s” sweeps are many. The story of the
policeman who got through £20,000 in a year is
well known; but the money frequently goes to
more thrifty quarters. One big winner (on the
N.S.W. railways) took a half-day off work, and
after banking the money indulged in the excite-
ment of a trip to Manly. An elderly couple at
Bathurst promptly invested their win in house
property, while a prize of £lOOO spread among
five girls in a city tailoring factory resulted in as
many marriages a few weeks later. A Redfern
(N.S.W.) man who won £6OO invested it in an
accommodation-house and grounds by the Hawlces-
bury, and is now worth the £6OO many times over.
A winner in Newcastle district who drew a big
prize invested it soundly, and now lives on the
interest without doing a stroke of work; his life
is that of the usual coal-miner except that he
never goes to the pit.
* • * *
The editor of a Dalby (Q.) paper, desirous
of showing up the exorbitance of the local
butchers, bought a frozen carcase of mutton
recently, hung it up outside his office, carved it
with the assistance of one of his staff, and sold it,
allegedly at a profit, to the public at 2d. a lb.
less than the local butchers were charging. Dalby
rejoiced accordingly—but won’t that man get a
heap of butchers’ advertisements in future?
• * * *
Maoriland begins to waken to the possi-
bilities of cheap electric power to be obtained
from its many and turbulent rivers. Christ-
church, and indeed all Canterbury, has long felt
the severe handicap on its industries en-
tailed by long distance from the coal-
fields, and it is now proposed to har-
ness the Waimakariri and light the
streets and run the factories by
electricity. The Railway De-
partment begins to see the
futility of spending thou-
sands and thousands in
dragging coal from the
uttermost ends of the
State when inexhaustible
rivers never more than
ten miles apart oan sup-
ply electric power at a
fraction of the cost.
Every important M.L.
town has a considerable
stream of water in close
proximity: Invercargill
has the Oreti; Dunedin,
‘ e Leith, with the Taieri not too far
v \ way ; Christchurch, the Waimaka-
► riri; Blenheim, the Wairau; Welling-
ton, the Hutt; and Auokland, the
Waikato. And with all this power
running to waste coal is dragged
round the coast from Westland at a
shocking expense. In some respects Maoriland
is fast enough ; in some others, a caterpillar could
give it ten yards’ start and win easily.
* * • *
“ I have not seen a white woman for nine
years,” wrote a Far Northern telegraph-operator,
recently, to his new boss, Senator Drake. He
was appealing for a transfer, and it is pleasing to
learn that he got it.
• * • •
Something is to be done at last about the
removal of the George-st. Asylum, Parramatta.
The buildings at Rook wood are to be much
enlarged, and the old men drafted thither, and
the present George-st. building abandoned. Any-
thing must be better than allowing the hundreds
of helpless inmates to remain where they are, to
be burnt alive in the long run ; but it is not alto-
gether a good idea transferring so many of them
to Rook wood. As a matter of fact, N.S.W.
Public Works Committee strongly objected to
making Rookwood the central pivot of the asylum
system—first, sentimentally, because of the prox-
imity of the cemetery on the one side; and second,
practically, because of the closeness of the water-
supply of the city on the other. In view of the
existence of this report, it is strange how the
Chief Secretary has managed to sanction the
present scheme. Reports of committees and other
public bodies always have one fate—the pigeonhole.
The duties of an Australian Premier are
multifarious. As an instance, the venerable Dr.
Ross, of N.S.W. Assembly, demands that John
See will find out from the Government Medical
Officer whether it is healthy to sleep with the
window open at night. Mr. See isn’t a strikingly
patient man, and this question,
which is one of about two
dozen, should be about the
last straw.
BEYOND RUBIES.
“Ah! true love cannot be bought."
“No, but one can sometimes get a satisfactory
imitation for cash."
SYDNEY, 1902.—AT A
LODGE DISPENSARY.
THE DOCTOR (to the man of all work):
“ Well, Sam, what is it?”
SAM : “ Please, Doctor, the meter man has been
here about the waste of water. He saw the
labels on your physic-bottles about the mixture
being taken three times a day in water. He
wants to know if yer can't let the sick folk
take it neat till more rain comes.”
“The grand Coronation display” of
N.S.W. public school children, ostensibly in aid
of the Mt. Kerabla and Martinique disaster funds,
but much more really for the glorification of cer-
tain smug officials of the Education Department,
was held in Sydney on Nov. 26—a blazing day.
A heat-wave made the city gasp and wilt; never-
theless 12,000 children were mercilessly assembled
on the shadeless cricket-ground, and put through
circus business which, in many cases, amounted
to positive cruelty. For instance, 5000 girls and
boys were put through dumb-bell exercise, and
600 boys set to “maze-running” at a time when
the sun was at tropical heat; trashing cane north
of Bundaberg was not comparable with this as a
tax on human energy. The Sydney daily papers
seem to have been prevented by a con-
temptible timidity from saying what should have
been said about the show. Thus Sydney D.T., as
though it were recording the necessary labor of
some domestic animals instead of an absolutely
useless tax on young citizens :
Another popular, not to say fascinating, item was the
running maze by 600 boys. It was the most trying event
of the day to the competitors on account of the heat,
which was at its worst about the time the event came on.
“These boys are trained to do three miles,” said some-
body. They seemed willing to go on till they dropped,
and left the ground with the perspiration ‘practising
rivulet races down their faces. The movements were
cleverly and artistically arranged.
S.M. Hekald, on the same point with a lady-like
diffidence:—
Then 600 boys ran “mazes,” and showed that they
possessed extraordinary stamina. Under the heat condi-
tions this item might have been somewhat curtailed.
Asa matter of truth, the display from first to last
was barbarous; and the charity pretence of it
makes it none the less condemnable. The real
reason shows out quite plainly in the long list
given by the Herald of the officials of the day,
beginning with “ the Hon. J. Perry, Mr. J. 6.
Maynard and Mr. Bridges,” and in the smug
statement that the Dept, “at the instance of
Mr. Bridges outrivalled itself.”
N.S.W. Parliament should have prompt speech
with the Government on this children’s display
question. If it were only that the circus business
interfered with the educational purposes of the
department and the health of the children and
wasted much valuable time, it would be bad
enough. But in addition to that disorganising
effect, there are the objections that teachers and
scholars are submitted to harassing and practically
compulsory calls for the cost of costumes, etc.
Parliament should say firmly that this display
business is to stop right now. Let the vanity of
Mr. Perry and Mr. Maynard and Mr. Bridges and
other “ officials of the day ” find some other out-
et.
* * * •
Opening sentence of an article : “ After
ray Conversion,” by Evangelist D. L. Moody,
“ The first impulse of a young convert is to love.”
Which explains quite a lot of things.
• • •
Despite the Irvine Govt.’s declaration that
Yic. Public Service is overmanned, there is no
falling off in the amount of overtime work
demanded by Ministers in the depart-
ments. The Lands Office, always notori-
ous for overwork, has, in fact, become
little worse under
therule of Minister
M'Kenzie. Men
are kept back
nightly and on
Saturday after-
noons and holi-
days, and as Trea-
surer Shiels has
stopped overtime
and tea allowances, the work becomes
doubly irksome.
* • * 1 *
ONE DAY—AND FOR EVER!
[For The Bulletin.]
How runs it?—
Love me for ever and a day,
One love, long love, that time shall alter never t
Rather, I pray you
Run it thus how say you ?—
“ Love your best for one sweet day,
And love as well for ever 1"
Aiiau.
N.S.W. Parliament House, which
the Owe’Sullivan boasts is “the most
comfortable in Australia,” is truly a
luxurious place. There are smoking
rooms, whisky-rooms, lounge-rooms,
come -and - let - us - have-it-out-rooms,
bowling greens, tennis courts, cards,
dominoes, and wonderfully compli-
cated bath arrangements (plunge,
shower, squirt, douche, etc.,
etc.) About the only thing
lacking is golf-links, and the
Domain may yet be resumed
'' for that purpose. By the way,
there is also a library, and a
refreshment room where you
may feed as cheaply as in a
Sussex-st. hash-shop, and a long
sight better.
A nautical man writes re the Elingamite
wreck and similar misadventures:—
Seems to me the travelling- public are themselves much
to blame for such happenings. As long as they require
to be landed in a certain place on a certain date owners
will continue to expect shipmasters to take all kinds of
chances with that object. Apparently the Elingamite
experienced some 36 hours of fog previous to the
disaster, but the skipper, trusting, no doubt, to his former
experience and to the courses steered, kept on in the
hope that he would flounder past the danger. But no
man knows enough of the world’s currents to be able to
predict in what direction'they will set him for the next
12 hours. In thick weather one of two things should be
done. If in anchoring ground put your “ hook ” down
whilst you have water under your vessel; but if not in
soundings stop —which is perhaps what the Elingamite’s
skipper should have done. But this is just what hardly
any skipper will venture to do when there is an arrival date
to be kept, and a “carpeting” from the directors loom-
ing in the distance. In my opinion the first duty of a
shipmaster is to keep his own end up, and, incidentally,
that of his brethren. He must abstain from taking any
risks in order to save shipowners’ time— i.e., money ; and
all hankering after the reputation of a “ smart man ” he
must eschew as he would the devil. The shipowner
usually views these matters from a totally different
standpoint from the skipper’s because the vessel is
usually well insured, whilst no insurance co. has ever
“ written a line ” on the master’s “ parchment.”
* * * «
The Art Society of N.S.W. is desirous of
obtaining a royal charter giving it the right to
call itself henceforth the “Royal” Art Society.
To this end a deputation has waited on Jingo
Education Minister Perry who promises to attend
to this matter without delay. The Royalising
deputation included citizen Collingridge, who with
so much verve musically declaims “ The Marseill-
aise” at Art Society functions.
* « • •
That sharp young man, Sydney solicitor
Chen hall, was struck off the rolls, last week, after
a valorous fight against several charges. Mr.
Chenhall came to the front in the gent.-one busi-
ness with astonishing rapidity, and acquired a
large practice; over-smartness was the cause of
his downfall. There is a notable absence in Aus-
tralia just now of young men who look likely to
develop into the quiet, irreproachably honest,
absolutely reliable “family solicitor,” of the old
pink-cheeked, white-haired type. The dear old
family solicitor who knew everything and told
nothing, and always wore black clothes and was a
second father to “Miss Dorothy” and “Miss
Mary,” is becoming as extinct as the dodo; the
legal profession gets more sharkish every year.


VV ild s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
bydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address.—
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-street
or King street, Sydney. *
SILVER STAR STARCH.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Australia’s
Leading Tonic
Beverage .
A Sydney firm of undertakers has issued
and is circulating a reprint of a hygienic leaflet of
the National Health Society of London, entitled,
“ Accidents and Emergencies; or What to do till
the Doctor Gomes.” This is indeed humor !
* * * *
It would be hard to find a meaner thing
than that Newcastle (N.S.W.), church-committee
which has allowed its clergyman to get into the
Insolvency Court through guaranteeing an ad vance
of £3404 from a bank. According to the unlucky
insolvent’s story he had been personally opposed
to borrowing, but was outvoted by the parochial
council, and was induced to sign the guarantee
with three others, two of whom are since dead
(the other has left). “ Only a matter of form,” the
poor man was assured when he signed the
guarantee. The money was borrowed to build a
church, and the church was built, and, to all
appearance, nobody bothered about how the debt
was to be paid. The bank, by the way, seems to
be left. When the godly borrow from the ungodly,
the ungodly generally fall in.
* * • *
Melbourne Board of Health is doing its
best to drive the local population out into the bush
to eat berries and yams like its far-back ancestors.
Last week it had a field day in showing up the
true inwardness of the public’s food. Raspberry
vinegar, almost wholly the drink of children, was
shown to be (40 out of 41 brands in the market) a
compound of deleterious chemicals; 75 per cent,
of the city restaurants were reported as absolutely
insanitary and likely to disseminate ptomaine
poison among their patrons. In many of the cigar
factories it was customary to finish off cigars with
the saliva of the operative—possibly a sufferer
from cancer, tuberculosis or syphilis; and, as a
bonne bouche, came the description of the oyster-
shops, in one of which the invariable practice was
to sprinkle those oysters that looked at all stale
with water from the latrines !
* * * •
In connection with the disposal of the
body of veteran mariner John Rees, who, before
dying at Sydney the other day, asked that his
remains be taken out to sea and dropped over-
board—four tug-boat proprietors were consulted
ere a crew could be guaranteed to undertake the
work. Sailor superstitions die hard, and this one
was freshened up by the case of the steamer which
lately came to grief off the M.L. coast with the
bones of 500 Chinese on board.
* * * •
The Eddy (N.S.W. railway employees’)
Orphanage Bill, after encountering strong opposi-
tion in the Leg. Council, has met a violent death
at the hands of a Select Committee. Premier See
took the measure up, as a matter of form, and his
representative in the Council, who tried to recon-
cile the opposition to it, was painfully ignorant as
to the merits Of the case. The exponents of the
benefits of the boarding-out system were particu-
larly strong against the orphanage idea, and the
Ministry, rather than battle over the Bill, have
thrown it up.
* • * •
The brutal Mrs. Drake, of Wellington,
M.L., who had so inexplicable a hatred for her
youngest child that she ultimately beat it to
death, seems to have a prototype in England.
A Mrs. Penruddoclte, wife of a man of
great wealth, and lord of manors and “ moated
granges,” has just been fined £SO at the Old
Bailey, London, for cruelly ill-treating her
youngest (six-year-old) daughter. The case
coincided with the M.L. one in almost every par-
ticular. In evidence, it was shown that the
mother had a strong feeling of hatred for that one
particular child from its birth, and former ser-
vants told (truly or untruly) of horrible sufferings
and brutalities inflicted on the unfortunate mite.
Medical evidence shewed the child to be a mass
of bruises caused either by a whip or stick, whilst
others were unmistakably caused by kicking.
The fining of this woman, the wife of an ultra-
’TWOULD MAKE IT WORSE.
“I say, why don't you put your full name up,
Arthur, or whatever it is?"
“How can I? It’s Adam!”
wealthy man, in the nominal sum of £5O, has
aroused great indignation in England. It is
cabled that a public protest, in which the leading
papers have joined, is being organised against so
gross an example of “ class ” justice.
* * * *
At Invercargill (M.L.) the three-fifths
majority required to carry total prohibition didn’t
eventuate —-but it was only nine votes short. Nine
more votes would have deprived the saddest-
looking, wettest-looking, grayest-looking town in
all Maoriland of its last remaining shred of conso-
lation. The writer was at Invercargill once. Only
a timely whisky saved his life while waiting for
the protracted snail-express to take him to
Dunedin. To be a sober stranger at Invercargill
is much the same as being a bookmaker in Green-
land, or trying to sell a fire-escape to the
Esquimaux.
Thank goodness there are in Sydney some
people of instinctive Dignity. For quite two
years the aesthetic soul of Mr. E. A. Nichols has
revolted against the appellation of “ Town” Hall
and “Town” Clerk, but he could arouse no
enthusiasm in the matter —the inartistic municipal
authorities went on their own beastly way. Now
the advent of the Lord Mayorship has moved Mr.
Nichols to make one final appeal to the new
council (when it is elected) at its first meeting to
recognise the honor the King has bestowed upon
the collection of lanes, dog-boxes and insanitary
dwellings, known as Sydney City, by re-naming
those municipal appurtenances the. City Hall and
City Clerk respectively. Mr. Nichols is quite
right, but doesn’t go far enough. The Town
Hall should be called the Mansion House, and the
Town Clerk the High Beadle. There’s something
very majestic about the term Beadle, and if
Mansion House is not sufficiently high sounding,
the building might be styled The Beadlery.
* * * *
Victorian State Premier having complained
that the “ Lording ” of Melbourne’s Mayor was at
the recommendation of the Federal, and not of the
State Government, Mr. Barton, in reply :
Do they take us for a parish council ? I suppose we
can recommend anything we like.
The danger is that the Australian Govt, will be
taken for a parish council by meddling, not by
refusing to meddle, with “Lord-Mayor” matters ;
that emphatically is the province of the State
Governments —until the municipal counoils or the
J’s.P. take it over. A national Government
should take no interest in such gew-gaws.
* * • •
Said that Sydney Municipal Council will
have to take over the garbage-destructor from the
contractors, though it is claimed to be unsatisfac-
tory. The contract, it is alleged, was never
reviewed by the city solicitor, and under its terms
the contractors have the council by the hip,
whether there is valid cause for complaint or not.
Why is there always a smell about a garbage-
destructor contract ?
• • * *
The most pathetic feature of the Dill-
Macky agitation came to light in the kitchen
wenches’ organ the other Sunday. A waitress and a
Catholic laid bare to a pitying world the agony
she had to endure through hearing two diners cor-
dially agree with Dill, without, owing to her
position, being able to tell them what she thought
of them and their Sydney Calvin. For a staunch
sectarian, and a woman at that, to be unable to
express her opinion while the other side consigned
her particular prophet to Tophet is indeed misery.
* * * *
Choice sarcasm wasted by a Gippslander
on the stodgy Minister Bent, whose trains are
running ever later and later:—
I would suggest, as a means of shortening the 8 hours
occupied by trains in covering the 128 miles between
Melbourne and Sale, that the carriages be provided with
an auxiliary mast and sails, so that advantage could be
taken of the generally prevailing strong winds on the
journey hither.
« * * *
Some N.S.W. Wesleyan clergymen, it was
stated officially the other day, receive only £72 a
year. There must still be some people who
believe in religion—or are too poor to get out of
the re'igious mallee.
People in Melbourne have of late become
addicted to accusing themselves of murders which
they have never committed. A few weeks back a
girl told the detectives a circumstantial story of
now she had killed her new-born baby, and had a
dozen members of the police force digging up a
paddock for several hours, until a little girl came
along with a squalling infant in her arms and
asked if that was the kid they were looking for.
On top of this came a Carlton man, who strolled
into the local watchhouse and gave a most sensa-
tional description of how he had killed his wife
with an axe as she lay asleep on a couch. A
jaded constable took down several sheets of graphic
descriptive matter from him, while his comrades
went to look for the body; and he was
just finishing up the bloodstained story when
they returned with the “corpse,” who looked
quite indignant as she bade her husband not to
make a fool of himself but to go to bed. The
police, however, declined to give him up, and
charged him with insulting behaviour, or some-
thing equally vague. But the record in this
direction is still held by that Vic. up-country girl
who solemnly set out to blight her own character,
some months ago, by registering the illegitimate
infant she had never possessed, and thereby tried
to prove that she had “gone wrong” when she
hadn’t. Her attempt to get rid of her respect-
ability failed —still, she did her best.
* * * •
A strange story of attempted but ineffectual
double suicide was told last week in West Mait-
land (N.S.W.) police-court, where the male would-
be (or wouldn’t-be) suicide was charged with
abduction. The parties were cousins, and very
young, the girl being only 16, and they decided to
die together for reasons that are not very clear.
This is the girl’s tale of their dying, on a certain
Friday night, put into dull, unromantic police-
court language.—
After staying together in the bush for some time,
Potter produced a bottle and said : “Drink this ; it will
kill you.” She drank half, and he drank the other half.
They lay on the ground for about two hours, but the
liquor had no effect. They went away then, leaving her
hat behind.
They went over to the railway line, Potter saying:
“ We will go over and put our heads under.the train."
They sat close to the rails, but she did not put her head
on the line.
They got up and went to Baker’s water-hole. Potter
got a large stone and told her to put it in an old skirt she
was carrying. He tied the skirt to her and to himself,
and both jumped into the water, which was up to her
neck. They remained in it a couple of minutes, when the
stone slipped off and they walked out.
Potter produced a razor and said : “ Come, to where we
took the drink, and I’ll cut your throat, then my own.
The pair afterwards walked to Thornton and thence
proceeded to Waratah, reaching the house of accused’s
mother on Monday night.
One hat and a valuable brick and probably the old
skirt were lost in these proceedings, and both
“ Dead wood
Dick” is credited
with a large share
in the making of
youthful crimin-
als of the bush-
ranging and
pirate order.
Has Sydney
scoundre 1 i s m
dipped into Gab-
oriau for money-
making hints?
The revelations
in the Haines
shooti ngcase sug-
gest that Toto-
Chupin furnished
a model for the
“touts.” “When
I’m in want of
funds,” the gam-
in once explained
“I go to the
Champs Elysees
and watch the
cabs. If it’s a
re sp e c table
woman who gets
out I know I
haven’t lost my
time. Then I
take the number
of the cab, and
follow the lady
home. As I can
guess she’s come
from seeing _ a
lover, or doing
something she
oughtn’t to do, I
tell the concierge
I’ve found the
lady’s purse, and
{et admittance.”
[e goes on to
detail how, once
inside, he extorts
Eayment, and
ow, with ten
or a dozen such
“clients,” he
manages to live
on his “ in-
come.”
parties got very wet, and drank some very weak
solution of match-heads, and wandered about con-
siderably, and—well, that was the whole tragedy
* • * *
Like Capt. M'Lerie, Inspector-General
Fosbery once set a trap for a Sydney black-mailer
of the park order. An ex-captain of the R.N.,
living at the Australian Club in Bent-street, was
the victim of a well-dressed _ scoundrel who
threatened to accuse him of a vile offence unless
he parted £2O. The old warrior, rather than fight
so unsavory a matter, paid up. Two months later
another demand was made for £2o—this time with
a promise that the ex-captain should not be
troubled any more. The money was paid but the
promise was broken; a demand for £2O more was
made, and this time the old man sought the advice
of the chief of police, who told him to meet the
man at the usual place in the Domain, and give
him four marked £5 notes. The appointment was
kept, the notes paid over, and the ’mailer was
picked up by two detectives who had been
watching the proceedings. Mr. Justice Hargrave
sent the ’mailer up for 14 years.
A former N.S.W. Chief Justice, when a young
man, was the victim of a ’mailer. He got a note
in a lady’s hand, in which the writer confessed to
an attachment for “Jimmy” and asked for a
meeting in the Domain. The susceptible lawyer
kept the appointment, and adjourned to a house
in Crown-street, Woolloomooloo; presently the
door opened and the woman’s husband appeared
on the scene. “Trapped, by 1” exclaimed
the learned counsel, in his characteristic way—
‘ ‘ how much ? ” That lawyer always went at once
to the heart of the matter. He had to pay £lOOO.
* * * *
Considering the many holes, orifices,
cracks, and discrepancies in that charge laid by
certain Chows (now awaiting trial for perjury)
against two engineers of the s.s. Chingtu accused
of throwing another Chow overboard in broad day-
light—it looks as if the was not the
capable and polished liar he is cracked up to be.
The same fact has often appeared before. The
Chinaman is a persistent liar, and he presents a
bland, unblushing, Joss-like front when found
out; but he is pitiably crude, and he is always
being found out. It is probably his immense
experience in being found out that makes him
so impervious. Compared with the Hindoo,
the Greek, and the miscellaneous Levantine the
Chinaman can’t lie worth 2d., and his persistence
in following a business for which he is quite
unfitted is lamentable.
* * • *
When a very small case has money in it
flies are not a circumstance to the gathering of
learned counsel round the carcase. A perfectly
friendly suit in which all that was asked was the
Court’s opinion re the interpretation of a N.S.W.
will recently gathered together seven barristers, all
three-deckers in their profession, and all elabor-
ately instructed by solicitors. In fact, one bar-
rister was instructed by three solicitors, and
Heaven only knows how many solicitors the
other six were instructed by.
* * * *
The burglar is, as a rule, a dour individual
who takes his profession seriously, but some of
THE GUESS-KISS.
HUBBY: “How is it you
never kiss me, as you
used to?”
WIFEY: “ O you always
drink brandy now—
and it's no fun guess-
ing.”
him who lately
visited an Auck-
land (M.L.) hotel
displayed a saving
grace of humor.
After emptying
the till, they ex-
ploited the kitchen
safe, and had a
good meal of cold
beef, pickles, rolls,
and all the cham-
Fagne the estab-
ishment con-
tained. Then they
went through the
house and collected
all the female
undergear they
could lay hands
upon, rigged a
clothes-line along
the front of the
building, and mor-
ning light found a
goodly array of
assorted trills bal-
looning in the
breeze. These
humorists are still
at large.
* • *
At a recent
meeting of a cer-
tain N.S.W. Muni-
cipal Council con-
si d era tion was
given to the medi-
cal officers’ report
against the suit-
ability of a pro-
posed site for a
town well. Pro-
bable soakage, it
was pointed out, would make the water impure.
‘A* l rot!” commented one of the aldermen.
I ve drunk water out of every creek from Monaro
to Gippsland, and I never see no blanky mi-
crobes ! ” Fact l
» * ♦ *
A returned warrior was charged at South
Melbourne, Nov. 24, with obscene language. He
was fined 605.; in default, 28 days’ gaol. When
it was subsequently elicited that he had fought
for his Cohentry in S’Afriea, the Bench sympa-
thised with him to the extent of reducing the fine
to 20s.
The Ideal GIRL
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
iONG had I sought for her, the fair.
Ideal maiden, tender, true,
With Marguerite-like flaxen hair,
And eyes as innocent as dew.
The daughter of the glowing South
I thought—though fair indeed is she,
With bosom bold, and scarlet mouth,
Too frankly amorous for me.
The maiden of my heart’s desire,
Of whom I dreamt by day and night,
I would not have her made of fire,
But, say, of incandescent light.
At last T found her, the divine
White incarnation of my wish—
Her breath sent shudders down my spine,
Her hand was like a frozen fish!
I yearn no more for such a pearl,
So pure and cold ; enough for me
A warm, pink, hundredweight of girl
To hug and nurse upon my knee.
O.R.


3
“graven ettes"
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
%ty
UsK
RAINCOATS.
A SET OF TEETH ONE GUINEA
Beautiful and Lifelike in Appearance and Guaranteed Perfect Fit. Absolutely Painless
Extractions and Stoppings Guaranteed.
Special Attention Given to Regulating Children’s Teeth.
Mr. d. SPENCER NOLAN, R.D.S., Surgeon Dentist, 43 Oxfo d-st. Sydney
Sold by all Drapers and Hosiers.
KNEIPP LINEN
UNDERWEAR
Porous. Cool. Clean. Unshrink able
Recommended by Medical Profession.
Prevents Prickly Heat, Eczema,
Allows the Body to Breathe.
In reply to Premier Barton’s inquiry as to
whether the offer to hand over the Northern
Territory unconditionally to the Commonwealth
is still open, Premier Jenkins states that it is
suspended until the expiry of the period in which
tenders are receivable for the building of the
90,000,000 acre-grab railway. When the railway-
swindle tender is accepted, or when the 90,000,000
acre “cop” definitely fails, then Jenkins isopen to
negotiate afresh, but he states that he is going to
run no risk of the job being interfered with
by handing over the Territory now. This leaves
it still an open question whether Jenkins would
be willing to hand over the Territory, and drop
the land-grant syndicate foolishness, provided the
Australian Parliament pledged itself to build the
Transcontinental line as a national work within 10
or 15 years, and bought up the existing fragment
of railway that ends at Oodnadatta. If the
Jenkins Ministry is so wedded to its syndicate
that it won’t deal even on these grounds, then the
position is clear and definite. The only thing left
is for the Australian Parliament to make the
land tax a Federal impost, and so graduate it as to
slay Jenkins’ 90,000,000 acres syndicate dead.
The Lacle Remedies— What they are. How
to use them, and speedily obtain a beautiful
plumpness of face, neck and arms, and a perfect
bust. Write for H. Westall Guest’s new pamph-
let, post free, 229 Bourke-st., Melb.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is, everywhere.
OPEN SESAME.-Hunyadi Janos Water is
the “open sesame” of the human organism.
Speedy, sure and gentle, it fulfils every indication
in health and disease. It is a therapeutical
arsenal in itself. Indispensible to millions of
human beings all over the world.*
THE
LORD riAYOR
OF LONDON
FOR THE SECOND YEAR IN
SUCCESSION, CHOSE
orS^
CHIMES NEIDSIECK
l CHAMPAGNE
\ FOR HIS ANNUAL BANQUET I
AT THE GUILDHALL, f
10/n,’o2.
HIS ANNUAL BANQUET
AT THE GUILDHALL,
io/ii, ’O2.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, December 2, 1902.
My Dear Arini—
Concerning the Continental at Sydney Cricket
Ground, time and place were admirable. The
weather might have advantageously been
warmer. Grand-stands, band-stands, outlined
with soft, unwinking electric light of many
colors. The green basin of turf ringed
by the grey asphalt track. But the live
attractions, if the promoters hope to make
the departure permanently successful, will have
to have more life. They were tame and un-
varied. Between 4000 and 5000 persons were pre-
sent a number of them in evening-dress. All
fashionable Sydney “continented ” watching fire-
works, listening to the bands, looking at thp Cole-
manscarecrow, the Human Frog, and the very stout
lady on the wire-rope, in mournful silence.' The
quiet of those thousands of people in the half-light
made the scene somewhat eerie. Not a pushite
present. A party of Americans, with memories
of Coney Island hanging around them, went out
with a gun in each hip pocket. But there was
no row, except when tne fireworks soared up into
an amethyst, starless sky, and rained weeping
willows of flame and meteors of many hues. The
dresses, many of them, vied in beauty with those
of a race meeting.
An item for the Psychical Research Society is
the story vouched for by Mr. and Mrs. Leefson,
survivors from the Elingamite wreck, of their
two little girls dreaming simultaneously the night
before the disaster of its occurrence. Vanda,
aged four, was with her parents, and amused pas-
sengers, an hour or two before the Three Kings
were sighted, by telling how she had dreamt that
“this ship struckted on a rock and was breakted
up.” Cora, six years old, remained in N.S.W.
with friends, and awoke the same fatal morning,
crying, because she had seen her father and
mother and Vanda “ wrecked on the Elingamite.”
A remarkable sympathy exists between the two
children. Vanda, during the first hour of horror,
did nothing but call out for Cora, except once,
when she said, “Oh, my two dollies in the cabin !
they’ll be drownded.”
Annual meeting of Women’s Society for Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals seemed to me a
sample of cruelty to Lady Rawson. She was at
the Town Hall at 3 o’clock, and after Archbishop
Smith and several other gentlemen had spoken,
Her Ex. began to present the prizes to 500
children who had scored in the essay competition
on the humane treatment of animals. Stacks of
books were around the lady, she was barricaded
in them. “Aurelian Jenks,” said the Archbishop,
and the youngster trotted up the little ladder
from the body of the hall to the platform. “Alice
Maud Isabel Smith,” droned the Archbishop,
and then A. M. I. Smith hustled her way
from the back of the hall up to the steps and
climbed them in the last stage of exhaustion.
It was after 4 when I left, and Her Ex. was still
standing, looking dazed with weariness, and the
appalling barricade of books seemed as high as
ever.
Ex-Mayoress Harris and other ladies who sub-
scribed towards a wedding present to the Countess
Beauchamp are to be complimented on their
ability to keep a secret. A great cry of anguish
has gone up, high as the Beauchamp Towers;
“why wasn’t I also asked to subscribe?” from
those women who would, but were not given a
chance. _On the day of the Earl’s marriage, a
subscription cable of congratulation was forwarded
to him, and swift came a reply, under the stimulus
of which a present was" decided upon—a fan.
Ostriches at South Head furnished the beautiful
feathers; sticks of tortoiseshell, made-up ig
Sydney, bear a coronet in Australian silver, the
bride’s monogram, and a spray of jessamine. This
beautiful cooler and fly-frightener has gone on its
journey in a box made of Australian woods ; sub-
scribers’ _ names are written in a white vellum
book, painted with Australian flowers.
The picturesque-looking daughter, Christian, of
Mr. Hugh Dixson, of tobacco fame, was married
the other day to Mr. Rowe Thornett, an English
man whom she met whilst abroad. The bride
made her vows in a shimmering gown of white
lisse, flounced with rare lace, valued at 80 guineas
a flounce, and a Brussels-lace veil.
People _ who go abroad in the dawning see
strange sights, and quite recently an aristocratic
portion of Sydney, such of it as was up betimes,
was astounded to see its most fashionable cleric
coming down street in a milk-cart with a fair lady
holding on to him rather firmly. The cleric and
his friend had been out boating, and an unex-
pected southerly had made it necessary to pull
for their lives to a down-harbor bay. The only
conveyance obtainable was the passing milk-cart,
and as the driver kindly offered to see them right
home, pride was mastered by necessity.
Nora McKay, who fiddled at Amy Castles’
concert and later for Dolores at three concerts,
left for London and further study last Saturday
amid the usual rain of roses. At her own concert
in her birthplace, Maryborough (Q.), she was
given an opal and diamond ring and a purse of
£BO. Eva Mylott and the young Maonlander,
Soprano Nora Long, have returned from their
Northern Rivers tour with some money and many
freckles. When Miss Long was not on the plat-
form she was taking tickets at the door. Miss
Mylott, who goes hence next Saturday, was pre-
sented with the proceeds of her late concert, £290,
at the Australia Hotel.
Australian Bushman Captain Hedley Fitz-
patrick, son of a N.S.W. and Darling Downs
squatter, is returning to Australia with his Boer
bride, whom he married in the Transvaal. It will
be such a surprise and disappointment to Aus-
tralia if the lady does not resemble Tant Sanna (in
“ The Story of an African Farm ”) who drank so
much coffee and went to bed in her boots, and
called the rogue Englishman “a thief and a
Roman Catholic.” Captain Fitzpatrick leads the
Boer-seekers after farming knowledge who are
coming here at the desire of Lord Milner to study
our (lack of) methods of irrigation in the drought
areas.
Isn t delphinium a beautiful word, and isn’t it a
beautiful flower, and why don’t more people grow
it ?_ A hardy perennial, in color from the deepest
indigo to the faintest lilac and pink. Some lovely
one 3 are on view in flower-shops. Mr. Frank
Morris, of Summer Hill, is one of the best exhibi-
tors. He is a racehorse owner, whose leisure runs
to flower-cultivation.
Certain fashion writers and one medical man in
England are welcoming the new Trottoir, or
ladies walk skirt affectionately. Now, women
no longer burdened with and hobbled by a long-
tailed gown, “ will once more take to the graceful
and healthy exercise of walking.” But surely the
skirt has not so much to do with walking going
out of fashion as the shoe. I know women who
would “love to walk everywhere,” and who are
getting fatter and fatter for want of exercise, but
they won’t wear a moderate-heeled shoe or-one
that hasn t gunboat toes.
The tram-guard who shot off his girl’s ear at
Kozelle (Sydney) has proved the scorching quality
of his affection $ but the “ beloved ” damsel
doesn t seem to have taken the proof as did
Lizerunt” (in “Tales of Mean Streets”).
Luza Hunt smiled joyfully when her bloke beat
her head against a stone wall, for she knew
this w as love. The Sydney tramway men are
getting too forward in life’s picture ; there lies
much peril to damsel’s hearts in their brass
buttons and uniforms. For the sake of heartsease
the Commissioners will have to put their men
into moleskins and billycocks.
A six-years-old of my acquaintance, just re-
turned from London, had been admonished by his
governess that if he were not good he would never
go to Heaven. “ I’ve been to the Coronation, the
circus and the Zoo,” he replied, “I can’t expect
to go everywhere ! ”
Amy Castles will probably give one concert
apiece in the Commonwealth capitals before her
departure for Europe. These concerts will also
serve to introduce her sister Dolly. Prof. Peter-
sen, of the Melbourne Conservatorium, has said
brave things of the junior Castles’ soprano, and
it’s a rather good idea to let Australia hear it
before it goes on the songsmith’s anvil.
With a look of conscientious insincerity on its
face, the audience sat out the magnificent crash-
bang with which the Amateur Orchestral Society
closed its eleventh season last week. The bang-
crash was all Wagner—drums, horns, violins,
’cellos, trumpets, pugilistic harmony, Titania
music, funerals, weddings, shooting stars, rifted
clouds, starlight, storms, and galloping hoofs.
But the audience looked, even when it applauded
wildly, as if it had a headache at the base of the
brain. The Siegfried Idyll was a soothing inter-
val in the building of the tower of music. The
Ride of the Walkyries—well, as a local writer has
just remarked, “a vivid imagination is a curse,” for
when the Walkyries start their ride to and from
Walhalla, I don’t hear the music any longer, and
I must label the steeds by the names of the horses
immortalised by our own horse-poets, then start
them racing on the no-visible-means-of-support
track made of drums, trumpets, and screaming
violins. Old Pardon, the son of Reprieve, sud-
denly spreads his wings and jostles oiie of Ogilvie’s
White Horses, then—
Their Exes, of Cranbrook and suite were
present near the little round table with the posies
and extra gilt programmes. What a day they
had had ! Spent the afternoon, 91 in the shade
watching 12,000 unfortunate Public School children
demonstrating to the glory of Perry and Bridges
on the Cricket Ground. Then a tonic in the
shape of a Wagner programme !
That cricket match in aid of the Elingamite
fund between the girls of J. C. Williamson’s
Comedy Co., now in M.L., must have been comic
beyond all whooping. The athletic Blanche
Wallace making frantic dashes at run-getting
whilst Elsie Moore chased the ball, deserves
such recognition in poetry as McDougall got when
he topped the score. Misses Rose Musgrove and
Lane-Brown ran tea-tents and sold cigars. Some
of the girls of this co. have been taken to the
bosom of fashionable Wellington and entertained
.lavishly in its art-needle-work drawing-room.
On Dec. 13, whilst Melba will be Rigoletting
and Margueriting at Sydney Royal, Dolores will
be singing at Sydney Town Hall. The way these
two sopranos lyric in each other’s tracks ! Dolores’
concert will be a “ complimentaiy ” tendered to
Maestro Sykes, who first introduced Dimples—
then known as Trebelli-to the Australian public.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
* Melba, as seen at her second operatic per-
formance, lacked 6orae of the calm dignity of her
concert ‘form.’ An auburn wig, covering her
own dark hair, was partly responsible for the
touch of garishness. Then, two out of her four
toilettes were sleeping-suits, and a night-gown,
no matter how chic, -is not ideal wear for the
buxom Melba. As the gorgeous Violetta in the
banquet scene of ‘La Traviata ’ the star was
dazzling in languors of lace and rapturous roses,
while, without exaggeration, she seemed lapped
in a cloud of diamonds, as if the notes as they fell
from her lips had turned into brilliants.
“Melba, sharing love among the roses with
Arens, in rustic cot, looked stoutish, prosaic and
modern in up-to-date suit of pale blue and smart
walking hat. The Diva’s queer little bob-neck
bows and nods were as noticeable as ever, also a
non-patrician habit of bouncing in her chair to
express glee. Judging from her few sample
dancing-steps, our own prima donna would not
shine more brightly as ‘ Carmen ’ than Agnes
Janson was wont to do when she flounced round
as the light-heeled coquette.
“Thirty thousand pounds’worth of rainbow-
tinted gems weighed upon Melba’s shoulders in
her ‘ Traviata ’ role, and their massive groupings
gave an appearance of oppressive weight. The
unique bracketing of diamond armorials on the
bodice was matched by a necklet which had heavy
pendants all the way round. Diamond shoulder-
straps and a diamond fan were other small details.
The dress for the first act was of fine lace with
pink trimmings. ' All the ponderous diamonds
were dropped for the second act, when a blue and
white toilette was worn, and only one big, bright
gem sparkled at the waist. Not a glimmer of one
for the swan note scene. Two feverish eyes
supplied the only sparkle, and they went out in
the end.
“In his character of Gaston’s virtuous papa,
baritone Bensaude’s black gloves, undertaker’s
apparel, and sultry silk beaver were oppressive,
distracting attention from his impassioned strains.
Every time the hand that held the shiny ‘ topper ’
went out in action, one fell back from the crest of
a wave of emotion. That obstrusive hat put the
extinguisher on all that was not commonplace.
The baritone might have risen to some height but
for his hat.
“Old Mr. Mitchell shared a box with a
daughter and daughter-in-law, and never once
was so un-Scotch as to applaud his own lass in
public. Old Mr. Patterson booked his seat with
the gods. Melba and all her clan ‘ wanted to
smack’ Musgrove on Saturday night when a poor
house responded to his short-lived three-guinea
tactics.
“ Melba says she wants all Australia to hear
her. When she went to the home of her youth, at
Lilydale, t’other day, an old man walked in from
an out-back farm, hoping they might persuade
her to sing ‘just one song.’ That was tabooed,
she said, but she gave him two guineas, and told
him to book a seat and hear her in opera.
“ Melba in opera is like an illustrated poem.
In ‘Lucia’ the young, strangely beautiful voice
did wonders. The roulades were like fountain-
sprays glittering in the sun. The Voice enthralled
one completely.
“Berthed together in a box at the ‘Traviata’
performance were Miss ‘ Stonington ’ Clarke and
Miss ‘Beaulieu’ Buckley; the pair drove home
from the opera in a private hansom, unescorted.
Aide Browning looked after the rest of the family.
Surgeon O’Hara and co. held the stage-box with
Manager Musgroye, who folded his white-gloved
hands in an attitude of beneficent repose. ’Tis
said in places of accredited rumor that Mr. Mus-
grove has much occasion to soliloquise over the
sweet smiles of the Goddess of Fortune. He cer-
tainly looks very contented with himself.
“That Polo depends on fashionable support
alone, was proved by the very ‘ naice ’ gathering
that rallied to Keeyong Course, on Saturday, to
see the start of the season. ‘ Stonington ’ had a
special interest in the match, as Aide Browning
was one of the players. The cream turn-out of
Lady Silverlocks gained an air of smartness by
means of cornflower-blue borders, head-piece and
gamp. The sweet young hope of the house rode
to the.field of operations with an ice-cream escort.
Girls in bevies of twos and threes came unchaper-
oned in hansoms, and had for their reward a word
or two with the perspiring players while fresh
ponies were being re-saddled. Mrs. David
McCaughey got away from most of the muslin and
crash charmers in a racy frock of cerise foulard
with expensive lace fittings. Miss Lesly Madden
sported a theatrical dress of black with lilac.
“ The little State Ex. has a happy knack of
suiting the occasion. He contrives to fit into the
niche—whether it be social or official. At a State
ceremony his harness might be a coat of mail so
rigidly stiff he seems, so iron-bound, so preposter-
ously dignified. On the other hand, he drops into
Koonyong course, say, to have a look at Polo, as
mild and pleasant and inconsequential a little
chappie as ever stepped in shoe-leather. You
might pat him on the back with impunity.
His modest, walnut-shaped boxer would make
you feel pleasantly disposed to chaff the little al
fresco Excellency. When it’s working hours, he
works all right; and when it’s recreation time, he
plays, with an amusing effort to show playing
form. He’s really at heart a nice little fellow.
“ ‘ Majah ’ Johnston, who, after trailing his
sword in Africa, returns to his prosperous peram-
bulator business in a busy suburb of Melbourne, is
the coming polo champion of the season. At
Saturday’s match, when Kooyong and Melbourne
tried conclusions, the Majah’s fierce and brilliant
dashes gave the game its greatest impetus. A
smart pony, a good seat in the saddle, and a
swagger cut of figure all served to gain for the
perambulatah Majah special notice.
“There is talk of mixed bathing extending
beyond Carram this season, so the smart hands of
Melbourne’s big chiffon stores are preparing fancy
frilly gowns for the ii.ixed dip. The fluid that is
alleged to keep fringes in curl and dyes unharmed
in salt water is in wonderful demand. Dentists
should really supply their patrons with chains and
padlocks, for surely the greatest of misery of any
at the mixed-bathing meeting in the waters is the
fatality of drowned, stolen, strayed, or lost
molars ; and the missing plate is quite a common
sorrow.
“ Carrie Moore has an annoying habit of falling
into a convulsion of giggles, so that her words are
jostled in her mouth, and the ears of the audience
strained. Of course, her Yum Yum role in the
‘Mikado’ is necessarily gigglesome, but in the
‘Toreador’ show the laughing fits interfered so
much with the dialogue that the audience secretly
prayed for Carrie to move off. There is always
this to say of Maud Clietwynd, that her toes and
her tongue give equal point to any of her lines
and business.
“The home-coming of Cliveden’s mistress next
week brings more Clarkes into our ken, and
multiplies the difficulties of distinction. Also it
means that Society gets ready for a festival, for
widow Janet Clarke is hospitable and lavish. For
her active philanthropy, vanity, and popularity,
Janet Lady suffers from a constant buzzing of
appeals and a never-ending swarm of sycophants.
“A certain police magistrate was on a delicate
mission the other day—assisting the wife of a
Federal Minister to choose Xmas cards for
Joe Chamberlain, the Earl of Rosebery, and other
more or less known sons of the Empire. No secret
was made as to their destination. The matron
sought diligently for artistic pictures; it was her
companion’s duty to keep his eye open to see that
the cards were free from amorous messages or
saccharine sentiment—that, in short, Joseph was
not called ‘ Ducky ’ (which any Joseph would
resent). So the choice was a great work, and all
in the shop were much amused. At last pictorial
cards, depicting Australian sites, were agreed
upon, and all the shop assistants heaved a sigh of
relief.
“A kind, lovable, interesting man of many
parts passed away last week, Dr. J. J. Miller.
A book-lover, he hoarded up rare editions, and
choice volumes of the poets. An epicure, he was
widely known for his caviares , and he grew in his
own small garden-plots rare herbs, and was proud
of his salad recipes. He was also thoroughly
versed in music, and attended (with his very
charming wife) every good concert held in Mel-
bourne for years past. He collected special bric-
a-brac. Besides all of which cults he had the
military hobby (being a captain of artillery), a
taste for scientific research, and a fondness for
Goethe in the original. He was, withal, a modest
and retiring character, and was only 37 when he
succumbed to heart-failure, after a toilsome life,
working up a big suburban and Collins-st. practice
and fitting in a dozen hobbies.
“Dr. Miller leaves behind him a widow, two
children, and an old mother, whose only child he
was, and who had shared with her son the many
struggles which lie between a poor man and a
professional career. Young Miller took his
diploma at 24, and in no time had troops of
patients. His mother, a silver-haired belle,
blessed with a taste of blarney and a genius for
cooking, kept open-house for her son till he
married, and was famous for her Sunday-night
suppers, to which she welcomed as many as could
squeeze into their tiny cottage.
“Another death, recently announced, is that of
Mrs. Swinborn, an old Quaker identity, who in
her day had done heaps of practical good work.
She was an ‘old-school Friend,’ who believed in
work rather than words. Modern ‘ Friends ’ are
rather too evangelistic and sentimental to
altogether please the Old Lights. The proper
way is to sit mute in Meeting-House till the spirit
moves you to get up and deliver a moral essay,
almost secular in tone. Modern ‘Friends’ for fear
of driving away hearers by dullness, apparently
arrange that certain picked speakers are to hear
the call to sermonize whenever the pause threatens
to become painful. When some of the speakers
do get going, they call their hearers ‘ dear friends ’
and plead with them, which isn’t according to
Cocker—l mean Quaker. Even with these
modern tricks, a ‘Friends’ meeting is a bit eerie.
You sit there in awful silence till the trams and
street-noises seem to be gnawing your nerves.
Then some iron-gray patriarch gazing absently
over the meeting’s head orates impressively
‘peace, perfect peace, in this dark world of sin.’
Another awful pause, then he says the same
thing again, hissing the word ‘ sin ’ like an
accusing wind blowing through the key-hole of
conscience. ‘ Unfriendly,’ I call it.
“When Strong man Pagel goes into the lion’s
cage to pull the king of beasts about, the animal
crouches down and seems terrified, but his mate
‘ Doggie ’ welcomes the visitor with hospitable
tail-waggings and friskings. When Pagel leaves
the cage, the lion cheers up at once, indulges in
horseplay, and seems almost inclined to chew
‘Doggie’ in the re-action of his spirits. Pup
seems bored. Having sampled human society, he
can’t be bothered with stupid old Four-Legs.
Dogs are terribly uppish creatures. They fawn
on Man, and cold-shoulder their own kind, and
display a contempt for cats, however large.
“ The annual dance of Mrs. W. Green’s pupils
is the attraction for Monday evening (Bth), at the
Town Hall. Melb i and the two V.R. contingents
are among the side-shows promised. Florrie
Green is to try for greater laurels, as, it is whis-
pered, a prelude to a debut, later on, in comic
opera. f
“ Madame Keogh, widow of one of Melbourne’s
wealthy auctioneers, has invented a new game of
c irds (said to be diverting) and has named it after
Lady Tennyson.
_ “An extraordinary thing happened at a mar-
riage, the other day, at a church up about Eastern
Hill. The clergyman who was joining two hands
in holy matrimony discovered that the brides-
maids were bare headed, and didn’t even boast a
sprig of jessamine. He thereupon announced
that the bridesmaids must find some covering for
the head, according to the teaching of his church
concerning small matters matrimonial. The party
was distracted, till a practical person suggested
handkerchiefs. Three of a large size were forth-
coming, the maids submitted to the ludicrous
head-gear, and the marriage went on its way.
This is the holy edifice where romantic maidens
come in the twilight to confess the sins they are
inclined to, and all the faults they have a mind to.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


YOUR KIDNEYS.
Your kidneys are your most important organ. They must filter every drop of your blood.
That’s why your kidneys must be cured through your blood—cured by making your blood pure and
strong with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
If your blood is weak, your kidneys can’t do their work—and so they leave your blood unfiltered
and foul.
If your blood is bad, your kidneys are left clogged with poisonous impurities.
Then come the backaches that mean fatal kidney disease.
Don’t neglect that backache a moment! Strike at once at the root of your kidney trouble by
enriching your blood with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
Eminent Engineer Cured.— Mr. J. G. Ray, Westralia Hotel, King-st., Sydney, whose famous break of gauge
invention has been successfully tried, says:—“My kidneys were very much out of order. My ankles and feet used to
swell—if pressed a hollow formed in them. I was despondent and irritable, and had agonising pains in the top of my
head. Medical treatment didn’t cure me, but two boxes of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills lessened the swelling and the pain in
my head. Six boxes cured me. Now my health is excellent.”
Sold by retailers and by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney—2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d. post free.
h
ĥ
ħ
PERSONAL ITEMS.
There are two successful Church of Eng-
land clergymen in Victoria, one of whom began
life as a gaol warder, and the other as a policeman.
Melbourne’s Fitz-Gutter has summed up
the Lord Mayor honor completely :
This is the consummation of my desires—something
that I had dared to dream of for many years past.
A Federal member who generally knows
tells The Bulletin that Mr. Barton has no idea
of the High Commissionership, and that the
Cabinet has practically decided., on Mr. B. R.
Wise for that position.
It seems that it was N.S.W. Premier John
See who was responsible for the Lord Mayoring of
Sydney’s (and incidentally Melbourne’s) civic
head. The Bulletin is reconciled to John See
being “the fount of honor”; it is a position that
just about suits J. See.
John Norton has now open-lettered all the
top notch humbugs of N.S.W., with one exception
—John Norton. It is time this omission was
rectified ; the candid, honest opinion of John
Jekyil Norton on John Hyde Norton should
make interesting reading.
Chief-of-the-AGE-staff Fox is not popu-
lar among politicians, and when Trenwith
entered Vic. Assembly, after the “contemptuous”
verdict for a shilling damages had been given
against him by the jury in the Fox v. Trenwith
case, he was met with loud cheers from all round
the chamber.
Premier Jenkins (S.A.), writes a well-
informed correspondent, must have it counted
unto him for righteousness that he did not think
twice before declining a proffered knighthood a
few months ago. He is a Yankee born, and is,
therefore, naturally averse to Imperialism and its
symbols. There was a suggestion that, as a com-
promise, the King might make him a “ Colonel.”
The latest about baronet Dan Cooper 11.
is that after his St. Frusquincolt Flotsam (which,
it is said, may win next Derby) had won the rich
Middle Park Plate last Friday after a desperate
tussle with the Duke of Portland’s Greatorex,
Daniel was the King’s guest at din: t in the
Jockey Club rooms, Newmarket. The Australian
baronet has long been a friend of Albert Edward,
and has doubtless found the acquaintance an
expensive one.
Recent wreck on Maoriland coast recalls
that of the Orpheus, to which attaches an eerie
story told by Russell. Russell, dining at the
Royal Hotel, Sydney, met Commodore Burnett,
of H.M.S. Orpheus. After a
talk, Russell said : “It must
have been your brother
Jemmy I met in North
Queensland. We called
the River Burnett after
him up there. Poor fellow,
he was drowned in that
river.” “Yes,” said the
Commodore, “there
were four of us brothers.
That was Jemmy. Two
others were also drowned.
I only remain.” The
Orpheus started next day
for M.L., and went to
pieces on Manukau
bar, drowning the
Commodore. A
few on board were
saved, and these
were all, a little
later, drowned in the
wreck of the London.
Admiral Sir J. Erskine,
who has just been made Ad-
miral of the Fleet, was in
command of the Australian
station from 1881 to 1884,
during which period he
hoisted the British flag at
Port Moresby and pro-
claimed the Protectorate
over Southern New Guinea.
It is printed that Erskine
would have received Fleet
rank some time ago, but for
the fact that his wife’s health
“ would not have allowed
her to entertain on the scale
usually regarded as in-
separable from the post.”
Social and ceremonial
considerations of this
sort have still much to
do with British naval
and military appoint-
ments, and, until pro-
motion shall depend
absolutely and solely
upon professional
ability, the S’African
FOX, of the Age. —
Plaintiff in Fox v.
Trenwith.
display of military ineptitude may be paralleled
at any time.
Prime Minister Barton’s eldest son, who
had been studying at Oxford, has returned to
Australia with his father. He intends ultimately
to practise at the Bar in Australia. Just now he
is acting as private secretary to his father, in place
of Mr T. R. Bavin, who has suffered a bereave-
ment in the loss of his little daughter. Mr. P. E
Flannery, the Prime Minister’s other secretary, is
recovering from an operation for the fashionable
malady, appendicitis.
The late Cecil Rhodes seems to have been
a man of strange language and curious schoolboy
English. He left a large sum of money to provide
scholarships, and explained that, in deciding which
boys were best entitled to them, three points were to
be allowed for “smug,” two points for “brutality,”
three points for “tact and leadership,” and two
for “unctuous rectitude.” And the matter isn’t
made much clearer by the explanation that
“smug” is much the same as “swot,” or else
“smug ”is the result of “swot.” It is necessary
to read such books as “ Stalky and Co.” to glean
even a remote idea of what the great man was
driving at.
Judge Moorhead, of Westralia, worried
himself to death at a comparatively early age.
Paralysis and complete mental collapse were the
visible causes of his death, last week, but an
anxious temperament, an immense capacity for
becoming anguished over small things, and a
conscience that was in over-good repair, probably
brought on the disaster. The charge of partiality
as a Judge of the Arbitration Court so got on his
Honor’s nerves that he defended himself in a 3-col.
speech from the bench, in which speech he related
nearly the whole story of his life. By next sitting
the semi-paralysed man had decided, by dint of
further worry, that in his speech he had been
unduly severe in some of his comments, and he
apologised to one of the persons commented upon.
Then he went home and gradually died.
The Irvine Cabinet is not a happy crowd.
M‘Kenzie and Bent never liked each other, and
since Bent has worked two or three points in the
House on his blind colleague in the matter of land
settlement and railway construction, the feeling
has grown in to hatred. The fat and jolly
Taverner, Minister for Agriculture, now on the
look-out for the Vic. Agent-Generalship, does not
get on too well with the lean and hungry Shiels.
Taverner wants to make believe that he
is spending a lot of money, whereas
Shiels sees that the popular ticket just
now is to pretend that the Ministry
is saving.
In the new Vic. Assembly,
Trenwith, Mackinnon, and
Watt are the clearest talkers ;
Prendergast, Duggan and
Peacock the fastest; Wil-
kins, Ward, and Ramsay
the loudest; Shiels the
most turgid; and Fink,
Peacock, and Maloney
the most involved. The
most difficult to under-
stand are Max Hirsch
(German), E. D. Williams
(Welsh), Mines Minister Cameron (Gaelic), and
Charles Forrest (Western District dialect). The
most Tory are Swinburne, M'Kenzie, and
honorary Minister M ‘Leod; the most humorous,
Andrews and Duffy; and the most humorless,
“Ben” Tucker, M‘Leod, and Premier Irvine.
Federal Ministers, as a rule, are poor, and
none of them has been made richer by the rate
session. By C. C. Kingston and Barton, both
poor men, the absolute sacrifice of any profes-
sional earnings must have been severely felt.
Kingston ought to be well-to-do, but he is
generous and Quixotically honest: when a brother
died leaving considerable debts, C. C. took them
all over and paid them. Barton wouldn’t save
money on £lO,OOO a year. John Forrest is
probably the richest man of the Cabinet.
Hunk from Sydney town clerk Nesbitt’s
little congratulatory grovel on the occasion of
Sydney civic boss Tom Hughes being Lord
Mayored :
We all trust that yourself and the Lady Mayoress,
whom we all so highly esteem, will have every success in
connection with the honorable position of Lord Mayor
and Lady Mayoress of this city, and that the same
uprightness of character and sterling integrity which
have been such great characteristics in your municipal
life may long continue.
Mr. Nesbitt being fresh from England, it may be
necessary to tell him that in Botany Bay we
usually take for granted little things like that.
Wragge’s Wragge gives the pleasant in-
formation that “we have a large batch of
aboriginal names for storms, and such we intend
to use in due course. We did not obtain them
from ‘Mestonus Superbus,’ but direct from the
blacks in the wild west.” Meanwhile we are
threatened with an “ elongated monsoonal depres-
sion called ‘ Leahy 1 (a rather appropriate name
for a disturbance just now), and an Antarctic
depression named ‘Airey.’” Note, by the way,
that Wragge (proprietor and editor of Wragge)
has now risen to the dignity of we.
The death of the wife of Melb. barrister,
John Fisher (widow of William Kerr) recalls
many incidents of the early days of Port Phillip
settlement. Kerr was Argus proprietor, and
from him Edward Wilson purchased the property
in the forties. He was subsequently Town Clerk
of Melbourne, and is remembered for a good per-
formance of Bailie Nicol Jarvie in the amateur
production of “Rob Roy,” by which was raised
the first portion of the fund for the erection of
Melbourne Hospital. Kerr was a live man, and
subtended a big angle in the young community ;
he was ably seconded in social matters by his wife,
who was very hospitable and popular.
Judge Moles worth last week declined to
deal with a County Court case at Ballarat, on the
ground that the defendant, Agar Wynne, had
been the Solicitor-General for Yic. and might be
a head of the Crown Law Dept, again, in which
case he (Molesworth) would be subordinate to the
Eolitician. “I once tried a case in which the
ead of my department was defendant, and I
afterwards was sorry for it,” said His Honor. If
Molesworth the outspoken continues to stick to
his point, the County Court Judges will presently
get emancipated from departmental control. At
present it is in the power of a Solicitor-General
to stop a County Court Judge’s salary when he is
sick.
“Jim” Halse, who, with two others, had
executive control of the co-operative stores that
were established during the long miners’ strike of
’92 at Broken Hill, died the other day. Unlike
most of the officers in that great row, Halse did
not have to move on ; he stayed and became a
shift-boss. That establishment of stores and
shops was the biggest idea jet worked out in con-
nection with any Australian strike: it put food
into the strikers’ mouths at absolutely cost price,
and it patched their boots for the cost of the
material, and not a penny of the strike-money
reached Bung, because it was all represented by
coupons, redeemable only at the stores. It wasn’t
Halse’s idea, but he worked as hard as any to
make it succeed.
WILLING TO TRY.
“ Mary, my love, things are so beastly bad don't
you think you might have a try at making
your own clothes!”
“Oh, George, pet, I don't think I'm clever enough
for that; but I’ll tell you what: I'll have a
try at making yours!"
N.S.W. Pastoralists’ Review, moved to
anger at the awful state of N.S.W. finances, con-
cludes an article: —
We do not know Mr. John See personally, and he may
be an estimable enough man in private life, but if he were
executed for high treason it appears to us that he would
richly deserve his fate, and that such an example would
do an immense deal of good throughout Australia and
Maori land.
No, The Bulletin wouldn’t cut off See’s head.
It would cut off his title. That would hurt him
far more.
One Elingamite survivor says that his
most vivid memory of the wreck is that of the
captain, when the ship was past hope, standing
in the water on two pieces of wreckage, a foot on
each, and submerged to the chest, calmly blowing
his whistle and giving orders just as if he were on
his vessel’s deck. He hurled abuse at Bill for
clumsiness and at Hans for slowness as he would
in the ordinary course —no more and no less. His
coolness was the salvation of many, by their own
admission, even women hushing their shrieks in
face of that example.
Sydney D.T.’s representative on Kingston:
There is no more persistent worker than Mr. Kingston.
It is to his disadvantage that he is slow and vacillating,
though his energy and his application are wonderful. At
present, he is seeking relaxation from Customs work by
drawing up his bills for next session. Mr. Kingston is not
only the best Parliamentary draughtsman in the Minis-
try ; he is, perhaps, the best in Australia. If it was said of
Mr. Kingston that he was one of the best draughtsmen in
the Empire, the statement would probably not turn out
to be an exaggeration. His really great powers in this
respect he is now devoting to an Industrial Arbitration
Bill, which is to be one of the earliest measures when
Parliament meets. Mr. Kingston has gone to immense
trouble over the work. He is said to have collected so
many papers and made so many notes and disposed of
them so carelessly that it takes him half a day to find any
odd scrap of paper that he requires. Mr. Kingston is a
curiously restless man, who prefers solitude to companion-
ship, and whose principal recreation is to sit on the front
seat of a cable dummy and ride along Collins-slreet. He
is a teetotaler, or practically so. He nevi r smokes in
public, and, except on special occasions, he wears a
tightly-buttoned faded sac coat, an old hat down hard on
his head, with the brim almost touching his ear. His
boots correspond with his hat. This quaint costume on
the back of a Minister in receipt of a handsome salary is
not an affectation. Mr. Kingston wears it probably
because he prefers it.
The Bulletin is still glad to remember that the
shabby, solitary toiler who rides on the front of
the tram was its nominee for the Australian
Premiership. In fact, as his clothes grow older
and his hat gets further down about his ears, it
feels more and more satisfied with its selection.
N.S.W. Chairman of Committees Cann is
threatened with a break-down, owing to nervous
strain. N.S.W. Parliament is very hard on its
officials, sitting, as it does, longer hours than any
other Australian legislature.
At a meeting of colonists of 1853, held in
Brisbane t’other night, Mr. John Byrne apologised
for non-attendance on the ground that he was
“ too feeble to be out after dark, having been born
in the year 1798.”
Suggested in London that the Jews should
testimonialise Pigott, “ the new Messiah,” in
sympathy for the persecution that he endures at
the hands of the Christians ! This is ironical, of
course, but so far the Jews have taken no part in
the demonstrations against this “ Messiah.” Once
bit, twice shy.
Worth while noticing that none of the big
Vic. wheat - buyers, who make much money
handling the Mallee farmers’ grain, has con-
tributed a penny to the fund for the relief of
those settlers. One of these wealthy wheat-kings
is in Vic. Leg. Council. He is reputed to have
made over £50,000 out of last year’s harvest, but
up to now his name has not appeared on any sub-
scription-list.
Certain quarters are much chagrined at
the developments in the career of the Fisheries
Bill through N.S.W. Assembly. As originally
drafted the measure provided for a Commissioner
at £lOOO a year, but the Cabinet, however, wasn’t
game, and only proposed £BOO to the House. In
committee, the billet was altered to a common
chairman (with a small “c”) at £5OO, and it is
hardly worth while engineering the Bill through
for such a small thing as that.
A Cable from Capetown to the English
papers :
Armed Kaffirs are dreaded in various districts of the
3ape Colony, and numerous attacks on women are
reported. The malefactors who retained their rifles
after the war, hold the settlers in terror.
These are the Kaffirs who, according to English
accounts, were not armed during the war.
Mr. George Barnard, a prominent Sydney
auctioneer who sells for one of the big pawn-shops,
and amuses his leisure by a lively interest in the
prize-ring, was the wrong sort to be a good mark
for a house-breaker, as a man recognised who
roamed into his house the other night and got
a shot through his hand and another through his
thigh. How many men are there in the worldr
who can register two hits in two shots at an
early-morning intruder ?
“Jaf.” : Government interference in the
constitution of the N.S.W. rabbit boards is much
resented. The chairman is usually the friend of
a doubtful “mimber.” Competence for the posi-
tion doesn’t count at all. The inspector is a Govt,
servant, appointed at a salary which eats up most
of the board’s funds, and not responsible to the
board in any way. The amalgamation of the
numerous stock, pasture, rabbit, &c., boards is
absolutely necessary, and Govt, interference
should not be tolerated.
MELBOURNE’S LORD MAYOR.
“His Majesty the King has been pleased to approve
of the title of “Lord Mayor” being conferred on the
Mayors of Melbourne and Sydney.”— DAILY PAPER.
The casual Australian female isquite eclipsed
by a reputed English specimen. She was a house-
maid anxious to be loved; the charwoman, in
whom she confided, invented a broth-of-a-boy
cousin in Ireland, and the girl (by correspondence
became engaged to him, and fixed a day for the
wedding ! All correspondence was carried on
through the go-between, and some nice presents
were sent to the phantom lover, who wrote affec-
tionately acknowledging them, but never sent any
in return. Finally the girl found money for fur-
nishing the happy home, whereon her lover fell
from a horse (by telegram) and “would never be
well enough to marry.” This non-delivery of the
matrimonial goods was a serious matter, and the
housemaid called in the police. The charwoman
is doing hard labor at present, but she ought to
make a successful novelist when she gets out.


WATSON’S WHISKY.
The Genuine Linen Mesh
Underwear has arrived !
THE DR, DEI MEL LINEN MESH SINGLETS PANTS
in all Sizes and in two Weights, obtainable from all the leading Men’s Mercers at the fixed rate of DLO/GAper
garment. Linen made in the form of a porous absorbent cloth possesses enormous advantages over the Vld -
fashion Woollen Garments. It does not become clammy or matted in wear. Is more absorbent than any other
material. Whoever heard of wiping one’s hands on a woollen cloth? Why, then, the body which is constantly
giving off moisture? IT NEVER SHRINKS. Ask for descriptive pamphlet, obtainable at all leading Men’s
Mercers throughout the Commonwealth. SOLE AGENTS—
ROCHUSSEN BROS., 305-7 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; The Strand Arcade, Sydney; Charles St., Adelaide.
h
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
u
D.C
L
V
K
H
S
W
• •
K uppers Elberfeld Lager
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. — ln the case of ethnological and
natural history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience ;or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
“ Glenara ” : To be seen any day, on any
Victorian road ’twixt the Dividing Range and the
Southern Ocean, horses, cattle, sheep of all sorts
and conditions, carts of every description, men of
every brand, all heading in one long, unbroken
drift towards the coast. Some men riding, some
driving in bag roofed waggons, others (mostly
cattle-men) tramping, with their few belongings
packed on the footsore steers. By different tracks,
in different styles, they move, but all southwards,
fleeing from the northern horror, with its miles
upon miles of blistered desolation. Southern
Vic. railway-station. Sheep-owner (with 2000
starvers, just landed—soo of them dead—to a
passing teamster: “ Give you half the pelts to
take those dead ones away and bury them.”
“ Half the pelts ? Why, they’re only worth about
3d. each. ’Tain’t good enough.” “ Well, I’ll give
you all the skins. Must get them away from here
somehow.” “Chuck in another quid and I’m
willin’.” “Right y’ are.” And an hour later a
waggon, piled up with sheep-corpses, moves out
to a little-frequented spot amongst the hills.
Ararat Plains. New selector asks cattle-hunter
the price of one of his heifers. “ One of them?
We'don’t sell them in ‘ ones ’ nowadays. They’re
fid. to a bob a dozen, most of them. You can
take your pick for eighteenpence.”,.
• • * •
The man who was settled on the land—a
daily paper item from Ballarat: —
A sad illustration of the terrible straits to which
farmers in the Mallee have been reduced by the drought
was witnessed to-day in the city, when a once prosperous
farmer from Sheep Hills, near Donald, drove down Sturt-
street in a shattered waggon, the tilt of which was com-
posed of old cornsacks. This turnout and a dozen
starving horses, a crate of almost featherless hens, and a
few chairs and tables were all that were left of the fruits
of his 27 years’ toil. Accompanying the distressed settler
were his wife and children, who were perched on top of
the load. Scores of citizens assembled in the street to
gaze upon and pity the poverty-stricken family and their
pitiful turn-out. In conversation the unfortunate agri-
culturist said : “ We have travelled day and night since
leaving the famine region. It would make your heart
bleed to see some of the ruined farmers along the road I
have travelled—mothers wheeling perambulators and
carrying their children, and fathers walking behind
carrying blankets and a few necessaries.”
The three ages of agriculture in the dry country :
(1) Getting the people on the land; (2) helping
the people to remain on the land ; (3) getting the
people off the land.
* ♦ * *
The recent Victorian dust-tornado was the
last straw to the drought-cursed mallee. Water
channels, excavated at huge expense, have been
filled with sand and rubbish. Hundreds of miles
of these channels were made to tap the overflow
of the Wimmera River, but, as there has been no
overflow for years, there has been no water to
send along them. Vic. mallee water-schemes
have been an expensive luxury. There is scarcely
a hoof left in all the Wimmera district, as there is
MISUNDERSTOOD.
BARBER : “ More plague at Townsville, I see, sir.
They say the disease is in the hair, sir."
OLD GENT : "Dear me, I hope you!re very care-
ful what brushes you use.”
BARBER : “ Oh, not in the ’air of the ’e d—the hair
of the hatmosphere.”
neither water nor grass, and there is nothing left
for existing water trusts but to repudiate. The
Kyabram chickens are coming home early to roost
on the Reform Govt.
• * • *
“ Tonbur ” : Can’t see why there should
be such a fuss about the woes of the Vic. Mallee
people in particular, when many parts of Queens-
land and N.S.W. are in just as bad a plight. The
mallee never has been, and never will be, a wheat-
producing district. One crop in eight years is not
encouraging, and by supplying seed Government
is only prolonging the agony. But Vic. Govt,
has constructed such a number of useless railways
into the wilderness that it will do anything to g'
out of the difficulty.
* * * *
Some landholders have made little fortunes
during the drought by agisting stock. A Kiandra
(N.S.W.) grazier has just taken on between 70,000
and 80,000 sheep for five months at 2s. a head,
which will pan out over ±I7OOO.
* * * •
“5.0. C.” : Common now in Clunes (Vic.)
to see the mobs of half-starved stock passing
through to Gippsland. How they will exist
when they get there is a mystery. One mob, the
other day, was followed by a waggonette covered
with old bags, on the side of which was printed,
with tar or blacking, “ Root, Hog, or Die.” Next
day came anotlier mob, with an old man in a
waggon, his wife driving a spring dray, leading
three horses ; two daughters just ahead driving
cows and calves. “Fairly driven from home,”
the old man told me. “Going to Gippsland—or
anywhere—for feed.”
* * * *
“A.P.R.” : Be cruelty to animals (“Boko,”
B. 15/11/’O2). No one, if it can be avoided, will
allow £ISOO worth of stock to perish. Also, the
talk about “overstocking” is absurd. Four
years ago, the “overstocked” surplus of sheep
died off, and since then the Western flocks have
been almost exterminated. Last year decimated
the sheep in the State, and this year reduced the
remainder by half. When there is no grass, a
sheep to 1000 acres is “overstocking.” [lt may
?:reatly surprise “A.P.R.” to know that last year
1901) the sheep in N.S.W. increased by 1,800,000.
Horses, cattle and pigs also increased. For the
whole Commonwealth the increase of sheep in
1901 ivas over three millions. —Ed. B.]
* * * *
Another drought item. Down Queanbeyan
(N.S.W.) way, a mail-contractor (4 stages weekly,
64 miles in all) lost all his horses through the want
of feed, and, as he had no money to buy others, he
started padding with mails, etc., on his back. He
was found lying exhausted beside the track and
taken home, where he soon died. The home was
destitute.
• • « •
In a disputed-will case lately heard at
Brisbane, the soundness of testator’s mind was
impugned on various grounds, one being that he
took a bath when on a “bender.” This happened
at thirsty Thargomindah.
• * * *
‘ ‘ Oktis ” : Recently met eight Indian
hawkers in a body footing it from Melbourne to
the Richmond River (N.S.W.). Not one of them
could speak a word of English, their only guide
being a slip of paper on which were the names of
towns en route, with a request to direct the bearers
on their way.
• • * *
“ Glenara ” : Bulletin (25/10/’O2) quoted
approvingly some advice from the Bosisto Oil
Distilling Cos. to the Mallee farmer. This advice
—to cultivate less
land and do it pro-
perly sounds rea-
sonable on paper ;
but ’ tis this that
kills. A heavy,
well-grown, man-
ured crop “burns”
even worse than a
light one. And
so, just when
the “ good ”
farmer is con-
gratulating
himself on
the result of
his scientific
work fizz
comestheblis-
tering north
wind, and a
collection of
blighted stalks
is all that is
left to pay
manure and
drill expenses.
Then the dis-
heartened
cockie, mutter-
ing “What’s
the use 1 ” goes
back to the old
style of merely
“ touching ” his
land. Around
Horsham, last
year (a wet one)
several farmers —
particularly Ger-
mans — experimented with drills and
manures, and scored fairly well. This
year they plunged heavily on the same
items, and will reap nothing. Good farm-
ing may be very desirable, but without
Ration the dry district cultivator gets little
encouragement to go in for it.
• * * *
“ Werrimee ” : Be snipe (B., 22/ll/’02).
The Australian snipe (Gattinago Australis) is a
bird of passage, being found in this country from
end of Aug. to the beginning of March, and in
Japan, where it breeds, from April to Aug.
Seebohm, in “ The Geographical Distribution of
Plovers, Sand-pipers and Snipes,” says it “breeds
in both islands of Japan, and passes the Philippine
Islands and the coast of China on migration to
winter (strictly, to summer) in Australia and
Tasmania. ” Mr. Alan Owston, of Yokohama, in
forwarding to A. J. Campbell, the Victorian
Ornithologist, the first eggs that reached
this country, stated: “ The birds breed on
the grassy moorlands at the foot of Fuji-
yama. . . . 2000 to 3000ft. above sea level.
Nest on ground, among grass. . . . Contained
four eggs. 17th May 1897.” The eggs are pear-
TOO SLOW A FUNERAL.
HOGAN (15min. after time ad iv [?] for Quinn'
funeral to start): “Divil [?] Qumn! Did
ye ever know that man kape an appointment .”
shaped, stone-grey in oolor, blotched and spotted.
Though the snipe was described by Dr. Latham
as long ago as 1801, no nests or eggs were dis-
covered until 1897, principally on account of
the bird’s migratory habits, and from the fact that
the Japs, (who call it “ Yamashinja ”) take very
little interest in natural history.
* * •* *
In many parts of Australia it is considered
an honor to shoot the first snipe of the season. A
certain P. O. official on the Richmond used to belly-
warm the moorlands from midnight till sunrise to
catch the early bird. He gained the distinction
for three years in succession; but the fourth year
a man, bent on beating him, potted his bird the
day before, and hung it in a bush. A bare-legged
urchin, with a bridle on his arm, observed the
manoeuvre, and awaiting his chance, took the bird
and presented it to Stamps. The latter was out
early as usual next morning, deposited the dead
bird in a tussock, and then concealed himself
behind a log to watch. About dawn No. 2 came
along, fired at the bush, and, with a comioally-set
face, searched around for the game that wasn’t
there. Suddenly another echoing report rang out,
and Stamps came forward with a triumphant
smile. “ Beat you, Smithers, old chap! ”
“ Where?” asked Smithers, shamefacedly. “Fell
in that tussock.” Smithers rushed it; but at the
tussock he stopped, and his face became radiant.
Stamps pulled up a second later with a sickly
grin. The first snipe was stiff and cold, and
covered with a regiment of ants !
* * * *
“ Rusty ” : Be the growling of the farmers
about N.S.W. Works Minister O’Sullivan attract-
ing workers from the country to Sydney. T’other
day, at Picton, I applied to a farmer who wanted
a man. Yes, he would give me the job—because
I was strong—at tucker and 2s. 6d. a week 1 In
same district another farmer pays his men 3s. or
4s. a week, while his own sons work on Govt, jobs
at 7s. a day. Small wonder the men make for
town in search of something like a fair wage.
• * * m
Victorian Government entomologist
French seems to have settled the grasshopper
question. His recent experiments with a grass-
hopper-destroying fungus near Warragul proved
very successful. The fungus is prepared in
water; bread or fruit is dipped in the water and
put in the way of the grasshoppers. They eat the
bait greedily, and farmers on whose property the
experiments were tried state that the hoppers died
in thousands.
• V • •
P.-M. General Drake has a strictly white-
Australia policy with regard to the letting of
mail contracts. The last man who ran the mails
between Birdsville (Q.) and Hergott Springs
(S.A.) had 13 colored grooms on the route.
Federal Govt, now stipulates that white men
must be put on, and no black labor employed in
any way connected with the carrying of mails.
• ■ » •
Some of the far-back pastoralists—who
have sheep agisting at several widely-separated
places—have to “scratch gravel” now-a-days to
inspect their flocks. One man in the Gulf country
coached 950 miles, drove 280, and rode 550
exclusive of long rides and drives round
paddocks—to see how his much-divided herd was
getting on.
* * * *
“ Wer.”: “Spinifex’s” distinction between
’coot and rat-’roo (B. 29/11/’O2) is an absurdity.
There are about 20 species of rat-’roos, and nearly
a dozen ’coots, all varying considerably in size
and color, so that no particular member of either
can be taken in this respect as representative of
the family. The animal he describes as a ’coot is
the black-striped wallaby. There is a striped
’coot, found in S.A. and W.A.; but the markings
are extremely light, and are across the body ; and
the animal when coiled up is about the size of a
man’s fist. Also, the average rat-’roo would make
three of the average ’coot; “ Spinifex ” puts it the
other way about!
“Gt-onanga”: Be “salting’'
i, in dry country to make
them show water
Wanda,” 13.,
: XT'*'" ):
It been prospect-
Dg in the back-country
i W.A. since ’B9, and
jSver had any trouble in
getting niggers to show
water. Also, presuming
“ Wanda’s ” prospectors
had been a day without
water before catching
\b™ nior., that would be
three days
without wa-
ter for their
horses, to
say nothing
of them-
selves (pro-
bably they
had bottled
beer). Then
they chase
the nig.
round foryet
another half
day (most
likely to keep
him warm, as the
sun only regis-
tered 115 in the
open). Then,
before they
could get back
to the pub., it
would be well
over four days.
Horses must be
tough in W.A.,
and niggers
tougher. “Salt-
ing" I don't be-
lieve was ever
-so. to—by bushmen, any how. Certainly, I
inve seen some tough things done to niggers,
but, in 99 cases out of 100, they deserved it. It’s
all very well for town-people to talk. Let them get out
back 400 miles or so, and some morning find half their
horses speared or their camp robbed ; or a mate speared,
to linger in terrible agony, perhaps, for days; often
happened in early days, when one man was tailing
horses at water—his mates probably 20 or 30 miles away—
the niggers would drive his horses away in the
night, and, when he went after them in the morning, rob
the camp of everything portabls and burn the rest.
There is a lot of rot talked about “salting” niggers and
shooting them v holesale to get the gins. My experience
with wild niggi, - is that, if whites want the gins, there
is no need to do any shooting.
* • • •
Gerald ton, N.Q., reports the driest year
on record. Only 74 inches of rain since January.
Some of the roads quite dry. Bowen, 200 miles
south, has had 67 points in seven months. Char-
ters Towers, 100 miles west, is in such a state
that bathing is prohibited, and “soak” water
from the workings is being used for various pur-
poses.
» * * •
Supplementing “Frank S.’s” remarks
(8., 29/11/’O2) about milking-machines comes the
information that at Hawkesbury Agricultural
College, N.S.W., two machines, on the vacuum-
pulsator principle, “have proved an unqualified
success.” Mr. Suter, the college dairy-expert,
reports that after carefully testing the machines
on all points, he finds that the cows take kindly
to them, and there is no injurious effect. “The
maximum results in milk are obtained, and the
machines are cleaner and more expeditious than
hand-milking. They are also a great labor-saver,
as each machine will milk at least ten cows per
hour, and one man can look after three. The
cows do not show the slightest uneasiness under
the operation, which is very gentle, and an exact
imitation of the sucking of a calf.” Good news,
this, for those slaves of the milk-pail, the cookie’s
wife and daughters.
• * * •
Temora (N.S.W.) Independent publishes
some interesting figures to show the value of
manuring in dry seasons. One farmer has 520 acres
under crop, of which 400 acres cut for hay yielded
375 tons. Paddock No. 1 (80 acres), of sandy-grey
loam, was sown by drill with 22lbs. seed (of red
straw wheat), and 501bs. of superphosphates; it
yielded a ton of hay to the acre. No. 2 paddock
(80 acres) was sown by drill with 241bs. seed, with
251bs. superphosphates and an equal quantity of
screened stable manure; it yielded nearly a ton of
hay to the acre. A third paddock (100 acres) of
heavy, gritty, clay soil, treated as the first, gave
equally good results. Crops in the same vicinity
not manured were almost total failures. The
rainfall for the year was B's4in. from January to
Nov. 17.
• * * •
“ Chass. ” : Be manuring orops (8.,
22/11/’O2) :
The advent of drills and the even distribution of fer-
tilisers has practically revolutionised farming. Land in
S.W. Victoria will average two bags of wheat and four
bags of oats more to the acre by using lcwt. of super-
phosphate. Thomas’ phosphate, a by-product of steel-
works (until recently considered as much ip the way as a
gold-mine mullock-dump), ground fine, gives the best all-
round results. The effect of this fertilizer is marvellous ;
a strip left unmanured can be seen the moment you get
a good view of the field. Manured crops grow faster in
the winter, stand dry weather better, ripen fully a fort-
night earlier, and grow from 1£ to 2ft. higher than un-
manured crops on the same land.
* * *
“Wallaroo”: Another drought develop-
ment, maybe. T’other night, dog Stumpy slew a
big tiger-cat kitten, which my domestic feline
promptly scoffed, with aggressively apparent
relish. Of course, the tiger puss is beyond the
pale of respectable felinity ; still
The ’possum has generally been looked
upon as herbivorous; but a resident of Tarnagulla
(Vic.) having lost a number of his young chickens,
convicted a ring-tail opossum of the murders on
the clearest of evidence. Capital punishment was
inflicted and the stomach of ’pos, was found to hold
many poultry remnants.
* * • •
Died recently, at Glencoe Station, Mount
Gambier, a pet sheep, aged just on 20 years. Had
to be fed principally on milk for the last 18
months.


Cerebos Salt
contains the life-giving, health-sustaining,
phosphates of Wheaten Bran (absent from
White Bread) necessary to build up sound
Teeth and Bones ?r the young, and to main-
tain blood, brain, and no va force in the grow—
up. Cerebos Salt is used like common sait.
From Grocers and Stores,
Wholesale Agents:—Harrison & Attwoo# 0, ins?.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. Ib drhes away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
WHY DO BUYERS
COME TO FOR RINGS?
Ist. Because we are the actual
makers.
2nd. Bt »use we are Art Ring
cosigners.
3rd. 1 "ise our Rings are in ex-
quisite taste.
itil. Because our Prices are the
lowest.
Diamonds and Sap-
phires, £l2 12s.
p CJ
“ Fx & R ” 5-Stone
iamond J-Hoop is
Marvel ot Value,
£5 ss.
5 Exquisite Whole
Pearls, 425.
til.
udi.
7th.
3th.
9th.
10th.
Because we buy large quantities of Diamonds in the rough and cut them.
Because we buy Sapphires in the rough and cut them in Sydney.
Because we buy Opal in the rough and cut it in our Hunter-street premises
Because we have Pearls direct from the Fisheries. premises.
Because we pay Spot Cash for all the above.
We sell for Cash. No intermediate profits anywhere.
London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
Fairfax & Roberts,
Manufacturing Jewellers,
23 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
Again the paradoxes of Bananaland. The
S.W. corner of Q., usually regarded as the most
hopelessly barren and drought-stricken corner of
the continent, has had several excellent rains in
the last few months, and on some stations
(particularly Kidman’s properties) stock are
thriving. This way, messieurs the pastoralists—
relief country on the Cooper !
* * • *
About rain fell last week near Cun-
namulla, and small boys ran out, caught the
wonderful stuff in a bottle, corked it up, and took
it to the old folks, who put a date on it and
preserved it as a curio. In one paddock, the bones
of hundreds of cattle are just now an inch or two
under water. Nature’s little ironies !
* * » ,
‘The late H. J. M'Cooey told this yarn : At
Wilson's Creek, nearMullumbimby(N.S.W.) there
is a house in which no man, nor any number of men,
can remain for a night. Some who have tried it
myself among then!) have been violently struck
by something in visible and driven out. Even in
broad daylight heavy stools, zinc tubs, &c.,
have been violently dashed from one end of
the room to the other by some invisible and
powerful agency. L know a score of men
who have repeatedly witnessed these myste-
rious happenings, but will not publicly say
an> t img about the matter for fear of being
ridiculed. Ihe owner—a German—lias been
obliged to abandon the property, and can’t
i f > though it cannot be worth less than
*2IOO. After his wife had died of shock
(owing to the visitation of the ghost) while
1 eing c< nveyed to Lismore Hospital, the
owner shut up the house, with everything
in it, and took employment, milking for
15s. per week.
• * * *
Letter received by a N.S.W. up-coun-
try newspaper editor from a male subscriber :
Ireceeved a papper wicli I bleived to be mine with Mrs.
. • | ’°n 10. Ido not know weather this is don has
insult or not, Hut I take it has one wich if it oecures
agame I will take the papper no more has this might be
snip of your men work or un knon to you I will settle up
with you when 1 cum up next week., t send you up the
papper what was around the papper so has you can see
for your self.—Yours truly, A B .
• * * «
A fleece weighing 171 b, the wool being
JOin. long, was cut from a 12 months old sheep
last month (Nov.) at Pairview (N.S.W.). A
record for Australia?
* * * *
Salisbury, a village near Adelaide, has an
astonishing strip of land in an old river-bed (now
nearly dry) that grows unsurpassable oranges.
There are but 150 acres altogether of this alluvial
soil, a bit of which has just changed hands at
about £230 an acre.
* * * *
H. : Nothing unusual in crows
following a traveller. Have had a couple of hun-
dred of the black devils almost within arm’s-
length when bathing in Cootamundra district.
Also, crows know well when a man is sick. Have
known them in Bogan district follow for miles an
invalid who had just left Warren hospital. The
crow is the craftiest of birds, and all other birds
know it and dread him accordingly.
* * * V *
“ W.E.H.” : On 12th Nov., in N.E. Vic.,
we were clearing a paddock, when a dust-storm
came up, so thick that you couldn’t see an object
50yds. away, and suddenly all our fires turned
white, burning exactly like the electric light,
while everything 10 or 20yds. off became magnified.
Jencing-wire appeared inches thick, and almost
microscopic insects loomed as large as blow-flies.
This stated of things lasted about an hour (4 to 5
p.m.); then a thunderstorm settled things down
again.
* * * *
“Walnic'’: The much- discussed bunyip
is probably a survivor from a past geological age,
just as the platypus and echidna. In the rocks
about Sydney are found the fossil remains of a
labyrinthodont, which was probably exterminated
by the submergence of the country beneath the
sea or* by the disturbances accompanying the up-
heaval of the mountains ; but much of the country
west of the Divide is much older than the coast,
and it is quite possible that some of these crea-
tures survived in the Western swamps and rivers,
and are only now dying out, owing to the country
becoming drier as the hills decrease inheight. Their
aquatic and (probably) nocturnal habits would ac-
count for their being so seldom seen.
* * * *
E. S. S« >rensen, in the Commonwealth
Annual, relates how an ingenious female caught
snakes by erecting a 3ft. square wire-netting en-
closure and setting a saucer of milk inside. The
reptile would crawl through far enough to be able
to drink the milk, and when turning to withdraw
would invariably poke its head through a different
mesh each time until it rove itself into such a
tangle that there was no hope, of escape. It seems
to have been reserved for an Australian woman
to get home after all on the enemy of Eve.
* , * * *
“Walnic”: Probable that some stations
out Cobar (N.S.W.) way will go back to cattle.
“ Workers ” out there are kept in good condition
on scrub, and scrub that sheep won't, as a rule,
eat. But Meryula, which has plenty of mulga,
has 30,000 sheep in good condition, and not a
blade of grass. Mulga is worth cultivating.
• * * •
In the early sixties a mob of cows from
Twofold Bay were landed on Kapiti Island, five
mile 3 from the mainland of Maoriland. A bu”
was bought from a settlement on the coast opp<
site the island, and was swum across the strap
between two canoes. Next morning the man
from whom lie had been b. ught found him outs: Jo
the cattle-yard once more. He had swum back the
five miles during the night.
“Kanuck”: Re flesh-eating ibis (B.
30/10/’O2). I have often seen black ibis feeding
on dried blood at Meteor Downs station (C. Q.),
when there was no drought and no lack of other
food.
• * * *
Luck 1 At a quarry at Thornleigh (N.S. W.)
recently, a horse, with a tip-dray, backed over an
almost perpendicular embankment, 200 ft. deep,
but yet escaped all injury, the only damage done
being a broken dray-shaft! The horse was found
rlying on his back on a portion of the dray, and,
when released, proceeded philosophically to eat
his dinner.
» * * *
“ Jimmy S.” : I know an old miner who
was born (in the days of woman colliers) in a
Scottish coal-mine. Lying on a heap of small
coal, wrapped in various pit clothes, the light of a
pit-lamp dazzled his eyes before he saw daylight.
How was that for “to the manner born” ?
THE DROUGHT AT BUNGEWORGATIA
Running-in the last beast.
‘ Giro”: Those up-country N.S.W.
children who went on fishing after their elder
sister had drowned (B. 22/11/’O2) must take rank
for casualness behind a couple of Melbourne
youngsters. One night some years ago a Colling-
wood milkman entered the house where his wife
lived apart from him and chopped her, his
mother-in-law, and an elderly boarder to pieces.
His son, aged 10, witnessed the massacre, and,
being satisfied that his father meditated no
violence towards him, went back to bed and slept
until the usual hour. A few months later the son
of a solicitor’s wife at Hawthorn—a youngster of
about the same age—went to the house of a neigh-
bor_ and asked for lunch. When the boy came
again in the afternoon and asked for tea, inquiries
were made. “ Well,” explained the child, “when
I came home at lunch-time I found muvver had
cut her froat.”
* * * *
Specimens of an extinct species of huge
beetle, recently found in Stewart Island (M.L.)
are now in Christchurch Museum. The thorax is
missing in each case, but the head, ljin. broad,
the horns lfiu. long, the wing cases and the two
forelegs indicate the size. The curator of the
museum estimates that the live beetle measured
sin. from horn-tip to tail-tip. The existence of
such a giant coleopter is taken to indicate former
tropical climatic conditions in Maoriland.
* » * *
“ W.M.8.” : Some foolish people are
advocating the introduction of prickly-pear into
Vic.—heedless of the fact that in S. and S.W.
Queensland this plant has simply overgrown the
country, and will cost millions to eradicate—if,
indeed, eradication be now possible. The Govern-
ment offers £5OOO for a means to this end. As a
fodder, p.p. is an utter failure, as the absolutely
indigestible fibre forms a ball in the intestines,
and kills the beast. Too much publicity cannot
be given to this fact. What with hares, rabbits,
sparrows, drought, and rust, Vic. has surely
enough curses on hand already.
* * * *
“ Wyom” : A few years ago at “The Lime-
kilns,” 30 miles from Cooma, N.S.W., I saw the
body (or rather skeleton and hide) of a brumby in
a reared-up position, held so by one forefoot caught
in a tree-fork. It is said that the animal was a
stallion which, in fighting with another, hacl
swung round and got his hoof thus caught.
* » « •
“Scotty W. ” : Another hearsay bush
notion (“ Oripps,” B. 30/10/’O2) is that you can’t
poison pigs with'strychnine.- Five to one on
death, if I give the bait.
* * * *
“ T.N.” :Be long distances walked. Last
year, I knew a man to walk from Yia to Walcha
(N.S.W.) (27 miles) and home again same day—s 4
miles in all.
* ♦ * *
“Mar”: A recent Bulletin contributor
says that the Australian blacks, in their wild
state, never use the call, “Coo-ee.” Cunning-
ham’s account of N.S. Wales, published in London
in 1817, states : “In calling to each other at a
distance, the natives make use of the word
Coo-ee as we do the word 4 L. ’pr onging
the sound of the ‘ cor. ’ ? b sing that _ lS °‘ee’
with o >rk.
’> *
“ Euro s Be kids’ luck. The mil.:, man
called a c -.7 place, and a, neighbor’s youngster
proceed©!. to investigate a bandage on sh
no-ne’s hind leg—stooping down for this pur-
pose close in front of the cart wheel. Just than,
C-e milkman returned; and, though this war?
ordinarily the signal for the horse to move on to.
the next place, the moke sagaciously—or provi-
dentially—never stirred. Latei' on, when 1 in-
formed the father, that kid’s luck changed 1
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name ami address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Mrs. Publichouse: The cheeky person named
does not “represent” Tub Bulletin: his connection
with this paper simply is that he has contributed matter
and been paid for it. And nobody represents Tub Bul-
letin who tries to get credit in its name ; real Bulletin
reps, always pay cash. Cut this out and paste it up....
Miss Lab. : A newspaper receives the sort of thing it
gives. Just imagine what would happen to us it we
printed “End of a Romance 1 ”....W.F. : In the
Transvaal Republic the President and members of the
Legislature had to be Protestant Jas. D. : Decline to
have dealings with a man who spells Hanover with an
extra “n ’’ and writes about “ two ladys.” A.D.R.B. :
Thought so commonplace that it even occurred to the
late C. J. Rhodes Lola : A bright lie, but then it is
told in 102 lines of ragged verse E.P.A.: How could
you possibly prevent the sale of liquor in clubs at illegal
hours? As well might Govt, try to prevent the con-
sumption of liquor “after hours” in the home. The
organisation of a decent club makes the informer im-
possible, and “raiding,” even were it tolerated, would
prove useless in nine out of ten cases Zasa (Fiji) : You
can tell a story well, but can’t you find a bigger story to
tell? W. Perry: The cases aren’t parallel. The old
'bus wasn’t expected to make more than half the pace
that is demanded of the electric trams, and the ’buses
escaped many an accident by dodging the slow or drunken
passenger. A tram can’t dodge. As a rule, young men
are wanted as tram drivers. The average elderly man
hasn’t the nerve for such a nerve-racking job. An
elderly man may be all right on a train ; the public
doesn’t walk promiscuously on the railway line
R.O. : (1) No ; but Burns has been a long time dead, and
there’s no call for any more lines about him ; (2) these
opinions were never expressed editorially in The Bulle-
tin ; (3) Australian verse-writers are, never, so far as we
are concerned, asked to challenge comparison with
Tennyson, Shelley, and Burns; (4) reason for frequent
rejection of your own verse is that it doesn’t, as a rule,
break new ground W.S.O. : Knighthoods and such
may be of use to the Imperial cause in nobbling politicians
who might otherwise prove nasty; but, on the other
hand, they excite a widespread feeling of resentment
among a large section of the people. The Lord
Mayor business is, therefore, Jikeiy to do more
harm than good to Imperialism Stanley P.: Some
good points, but the blood part of it is inartis-
tically horrible; quite a lot of artistic gore comes
to The B. office, and we don’t want any crude gore
M’K. : “Unemployed Problem” a terribly long duil
manuscript in faint pencil—which last is the Unutterable
Sin Thickhead: Interest on our foreign debt has to
be paid in gold coin in London. The Treasuries here
have to export the gold to pay it (unless they pay out of
new loans raised in London). The sovereigns they send
are included in our exports. Therefore, unless our
exports exceed our imports by an amount sufficient to
cover interest on our foreign debt (public and private) we
are not paying that interest honestly out of our earnings..
P.O. : Wanted at least £in. space between the lines of
your type-written matter.... Joss: Absurd statements....
Soma :Nogo in Govett’s Leap verses Will J. : Hardly
up Nocatunga: No brightness: the mere statement
of facts doesn’t constitute poetry B.C.W.D. • Lacks
grip and vigor... .Betty : Too trifling... H.O.K. : Hardly
interest enough Finnique : Idea good; handling
clumsy... .Fred R. : Hardly worth print J.B.H. : Who
or what is “ Optima ” ? \ou write 25 lines of verse with-
out throwing any light on its subject W.J. : Good
points about “ Old Tom,” but doesn’t amount to enough
in the-way of a story Cripple (Q.) : No. Take a trip to
the Rotorua baths, Maoriland. You will there get expert
treatment M.S. : Don’t like “0.M.C.” Too much
like rubbing it in Mallee : Plenty of fresh, locally-
made bricks available to throw at these people without
resurrecting long quotations Barry S. : Life-assuring
on too familiar lines General: “On the Wallaby ”, far
too long for the interest E.M.P. : You maunder about
things—don’t go for the head of the nail like If.P
Proto: C. P. was right. The drought-preventing measures
he suggests have an ascertained efficiency. Why waste
time over matters about which we cannot possibly know
anything ?.... Fed-Up : Unintelligible D.B.G. “ Rid-
ing of the Rebel” rather obscure... .JJ.W. : “Missing
Link ” very rocky. Other only medium—a very medium
kind of medium... .Juggins : “ Last Ride ” most hopeless.
Poem might come in as part of a Page of Bad Verse
Condy : Yes, we know ; old man Molloy rode Dargin’s
grey to a buckjump standstill, and he wants to do it again
foe £25 A. Car B.: Hardly good enough Jacko: No
hope for a sea-ode without special grace of treatment
Honor Bright: What have you been drinking ?.... A.P.R.:
Story rejected W. Nilli: Small joke too long drawn
out M.F.: Some promise Will J.: Spoiled by melo-
dramatic finish Austin Cullen: Well written, but
far too melodramatic. ..Aida: Versification all right,
but no new thought D.D.: Too jerky Autophili: A
good deal of promise, but metrical faults are many ;
“we” as a rhyme-word won’t do Gerald B.: Very tamo
stuff J.F. : We practically never reprint verse
Unsuitable: Gurr, A.C., D.K.J., Bullaburra, Wanderer,
Bonamy,J.M.L.,G.A.,Tahune, Nymagee, M.D.8., 11. F....
Frances R. : Your letter suffices to show that you could
do nothing of service to us O.C.C. : Well done, but
not the sort of verses for Bulletin Sapling : Style
pretentious but faulty Nan: We regret the circum-
stances, but find the sketch too mediocre for use
11. Pohl : Not enough in any of them Bunnie : What
we said about your verses did not concern the story,
which, it appears, had been rejected at the time you
inquired about it Don Mac : Items no good
Jackeroo : No more shearing-tallies Eller : Toothbrush
yarn an ancient Mark Twainism Fred R. : Little in
them Charmian : Interest too slender Bish : No
literary value Mirboo :No verse skill, Yarrum :
“Touch and Go” isn’t up,to much.. ..Jayay.e : Worthless.
F.R.B. : Hardly worth print Monk E. B. : Silly.
J.A.A. : Too vague and indeterminate Seraphina :
Conveys no distinct idea Mona : Faint traces of merit.
Greenway : Nothing new in the thought P.E.H. :
Why is sincerity so often inarticulate, or only ludicrously
articulate ? Katopo : The cow-diet joke has heeii
worked to death Juvenis : Pretty, but inclined to he
mawkish... . E.E. :An impossible stretching of the long
arm of coincidence. .J. M‘G. : Departments, unfortun-
ately, are built that way... .A.II. : That conversation of-
the two women in the tram, re Dolores and Melba, would
have no humor for uninitiated readers. They would take
it seriously.
!TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
} It would earn us three months’ hard.. . .Eric
»T. : o.;e may serve as a thumb-nail sketch ... .M.
Francis (nc address): Three good and apparently original
ideas ; hut you have yet got far to go in tlie way of
dsv,wing-....Unavailable :—H. M‘C., Frank 8., W. Green,’
F.F.F. ’
The newly- enfranchised women voters of
N.S.W. should read The Bulletin’s “ A Policy
for the Commonwealth,” by James Edmond.
Post free from Bulletin office for 7d.
‘7,0.” SUPPLIES still another version of the
Mallee story:—
As showing that the Vic. Mallee is worth saving, and
in contrast to the drought-ruined farmer, Melb. Argus
gives particulars of a few Mallee men who have done well
-exceedingly well. Barber, of Birchip, one of four
brothers, started 23 years ago with very little money and
a tew poor teams among them. They now have 10,000
acres, much of it freehold ; crop SCOO acres annually, all
cleared fenced, and tanked, with good homesteads. All
tnm is tree of debt, and has been done with the returns
land—on an average rainfall for the last 16 years
or i4T6in. I Last year Barber sold £BBO of wheat, kept
back seed for 1000 acres, and had 300 bags of oats and.6o
tons of hay in addition. An even stronger instance
°f I, 0 Possibilities of the district is afforded by Ferguson,
of Beidah, who came from S.A. in ’B9. He holds 5000
act es, and, by fallowing and manuring, gets good returns
in ordinary seasons. In ’96 he had a complete failure,
lie spent that year £3OO in horse feed, kept on fallowing,
and planned for next year. It was also a failure, as he
only got back 225 of the 250 bags of seed wheat, and he
had to spend another £325 in horse feed. In ’9B, how-
ever, he reaped 3000 bags of wheat, and got back all his
previous outlay and a profit besides. These are, possibly,
exceptions. Mostly the Mallee farmer drives a five
or six furrow plough, or, in alternate years, a
disc over his land, sowing at the same time and
dragging a heavy log behind—the whole in one opera-
tion ; then he harvests with the stripper (at 25.6 d. to 3s.
per acre), and his whole outlay runs to ss. or 6s. per acre,
so that, at present prices, a yield of half-a-bag pays. But
tli e farmer in the Mallee (like the men mentioned above)
muL ; h (iVUI '- v y ear > and drills his crop in with a
seea-drill, putting in superphosphates also. The Mallee
soil is light, rich in lime and humus, and uses artificial
manures efficiently ; and this year, with a less-than-sin.
rainfall, men who have farmed their land thus are getting
vvw fu Tr 'n yit i l l^with wheat at ss. to 6s. a bushel,
vv nat L he Mallee farmer wants more than an irrigation-
scheme is (1) enough water for stock and household :
-7r Ch ®! llaller holdings; (3) scientific, up-to-date
tarimng , (4; preservation of shelter-strips. If the land,
J*„ e . ? l >ro P er treatment, returns a profit on a 4 in-, rain-
-7m . me . rel ,y throwing away three millions of good
water wiP°r7 l i 1 i 1 i lm « atlon channels—to a distance the
' 2 A ll never reach-while the average rain-
tall of the district is over Hin.
77' ' ie mau 011 the land is
insatiably greedy. The Govt, based its scheme
or advances for seed-wheat on the fact that the
average area under wheat on mallee farms is
below 200 acres, and wisely concluded that the
poorer settlers would not put so much grain in
next season*as in normal times. As previous
experience has taught the State that the importu-
nate farmer, after receiving loans free of interest,
las an unpleasant habit of repudiating a great
part °f the liability, the Govt, that gives any-
thing at all for seed-wheat is a great deal more
generous than the sweating of the (is. a day
fj u wa y man would lead one to expect. Yet when
the announcement was made that the mallee
A WONDERFUL VISIT.
“Excitement has been caused among the farmers
residing on the banks of the batrobe River, Victoria, by
the appearance of a strange animal. Several of those
who have seen it describe the beast as being about 3ft. in
height, black hair, short neck, long tail. It travels along
panting, with its tongue out, nearly touching the ground.
Several shots have been fired at it, but none have
apparently taken effect.”—DAILY PAPER.
farmers were to get seed-wheat for 150 acres, and
were also to have their credit strengthened by the
extension of their cheap leases for five years,
indignation meetings were promptly held, and
individuals complained bitterly that they wanted
to sow GOO and 800 acres, and the State was
using them shamefully in refusing to lend them
enough to buy seed for the lot. Then the icy
Premier Irvine thawed a little, and said the Govt,
hadn’t fixed an absolute maximum of money to be
advanced, and would probably consider tl e matter
further later on, for the benefit of the extreme
pauper who is able in ordinary seasons to cultivate
800 acres of wheat. The mere fact that Premier
Irvine, Taverner, and one or two of the other
Ministers, are mallee representatives, of course
has nothing to do with the policy of robbing the
Public Service Peter and the charities vote to pay
the eternally-snivelling Paul of the North-west,
and to carry out huge irrigation schemes for the
benefit of that agricultural ingrate.


IT WILL COME, OF COURSE !—AN AUSTRALIAN LORD MAYOR’S SHOW.


As is usual in all times ot trouble and '
soarcity. the traders and speculators in
tv&eat are busy making profits out of the*
misfortunes of others. There is no soarcity,
of present stocks in hand ; but those stocks j
are being held to create artificial famine, s
juat as Loiter endeavored to create a “ cor-
ner” in American grain.
' ll -
/^■bßStv’'
/»ipM|^.v
Mmßm
/p if MPZRIAL
fIHfIHHHHHsi
V A i Ofnh y* '
' WorjoY
P
No 1© «*r
fan a/fificfal
WWe W"
COftfC l»1
Cffik fkl
JrVifjc %«
'ffancbiy from 'fyg Cl Vl I
■ MAORILAND ELECTIONS.'
/ the local option poll.
PROHIBITION SUCCESS.
Simultaneously with the Parliamentary elec-’,
tions. a local option poll was taken in all the'
electorates. The results, so far as made up,
indicate* that prohibition i 3 approaching with a
seven-leagued boots’ rapidity. Total prohibition
1 has been carried in the following electorates:—
Newtown, Mataura, Ashburton. Clutha, Bruce
and Kaipoi Prohibition will also be probably
carried nt Chalmers. At Awarua the No
jLicence party failed by only two votes to carry’ll
prohibition.
4?
A A**
* r/ <£f
•~ v v v v V
S C^
**
ĥ
hft ve P ut
se t,t\« r 3 '<*'
tw U £** •s&«*?%*
#»* 2J W ol a^ sV on-
P to l 6 r^ n 0»< CoC lar^
c» 000 loto' I®' 1 ®' v„ Gto 1 " 0 - M.atteo l " -o
-?r-^
f!O..
•V\
' A°r -a **
J*
ui; «»*$
s** *•
H ou>
ħ
eaceably-disposed persons who have un-i
Ortuhately been subjected to the indignity!
Of arrest on Suspicion have good reason to
.. the Bertillon system with favor. In
two minutes their standard measurements
can be ascertained. The lengths taken are
those of the principal bones, which in the
adult male Or woman, never alter through-
out life.' ,
ei
ff* ni uwj
&J1 4 We
"io yoar
■ 'ther®
At . tvo oftv de^ tVv '
_, 'rsr*»(r-s.-
©Jr
"
°*>Z
Mt
I'/lUr *
MELBOURNIANA.


A. SAUNDERS
FOR WEDDING PRESENTS, USEFUL AND ACCEPTABLE.
Showrooms: 815 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
:
'N
Kv /f i/
A. SAUNDERS.
Two SERVIETTE RINGS, in Silk-lined Case,
Pure Silver-plated on Hard Nickel Silver,
in three similar patterns of ferns, 12s 6d, 15s 6d;
Pure Solid Silver, 80s, 85s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, makes Two Dukes,
Pure Silver-plated on "White Nickel SQvar.
Other styles, £2 los to £O.
A. SAtTNDERS.
0102 —HOT WATER KETTLE and STAND,
Silver-plated on White Metal, Extra Chcsed, £2loa.
Similar Designs, £2, £3, £3 10s.
TEA POT, Extra Heavy Silver-plated, 27a 6d.
Similar styles, L7s 6d, 20s, 255, 80s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Silver-plated ORU3ST,
as above, 21s.
EGG CRUET, Pure Silver-plated,
■with Spoons, 255.
Other styles, 80s, £2, £2 10a.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, White or Coloured
Ornamented Glass, Pure Silver electro-
plated on Hard Nickel Silver, 10s 6d.
Beautiful 8-Day, striking
A. SAUNDERS.
hours and half-hours, Marblette CLOCK, J 62 2a 6d. Post Free Anywhere.
Reliable Timekeepers.
▲ MOST ACCEPTABLE PRESENT.
JAM or BUTTER KNIFE,
Pure Silver-plated on Hard
White Metal, as, 2s 6d, 8s 6d,
4a 6d. Special Value.
CANDLESTICK,
Pure Silver-plated, 12a Gd.
Leaf Pattern, 8a Gd,
A. SAUNDERS.
Oak DINNER GONG, Silver-plated Mounted, £2 10s.
Other styles, 17s 6d,*2Cs, 255, 80s.
A NICE PRESENT.
flT* WE GUARANTEE YOU THE UTMOST
SATISFACTION.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST FREE
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver-plated
FLORAL STAND,
Ruby Glasß, 12s 6d
a pair.
Very Cheap.
SALTS,
Silver-plated Stands,
6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s Bd.
A
- n
a
BIS
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE,
Silver Electro-plated, Handsomely
Chased, 16s 6d and 20s ;
extra quality, 255, Sss.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver BOOK MARK, 2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
A 1 Quality 4 o’clock CAKE FORKS, Pure Silver-plated
Hard White Metal, 10s 6d and 12s 6d half-dozen.
Our Silrerplate is England’s
Highest Quality.
A. SAUNDERS.
8124.—0ak BISCUIT, Silver
Mounted, 20s; Shield only
Eluted Rims, 255; Floral
Mounted, 15s 6d, 20s, 255, 80s.
-plated
', 15s;
China
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated on Hard
Nickel Silver. Beautifully Chased and Ornamented, 35s ;
can be used as Cake Dish or Salver. Similar styles, 21s, 255,
80s, £2, £2 10s. A USEFUL PRESENT.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, Beautifully Chased,
80a, £3, £2 10s, £B. Cheaper styles, 20s, £ss, 80s.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class 4-Bottle CRUET,
Silver-plated, 85s. Similar, 255, 80s.
tdMMA
mmm
A. 8A CINDERS.
Oak INKSTAND. Highest Quality, £2 10s,
Other styles, Silver-plated, 80s, £2, £2 10s, £B.
A. SAUNDERS.
Beautifully Chased and Carved JEWED CASE,
Pure Silver-plated, Silk-lined, 15s 6d.
POCKET SPIRIT FLASKS.
All Sorts, Prices, and Styles, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s,
20s, 255, 80s, £2.
&
A. SAUNDERS.
Double JAMS, Floral Ornamented Chinn., 255,
In single, 15s 6d. Pure Silver-plated Rims.
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWELLER AND SILVERSMITH,
815 AND 817 GEORGE-ST,
NEARLY OPPOSITE
BAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY.


Redfern suburban council (Sydney) has
done something sensible—sunk a well in its own
park, where it has secured a good water supply.
This makes it in a way independent of the
Prospect supply for street-watering and so on.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N. S. Wales: Sayers,
Allport and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
A shocking accident lately befel a young
girl at Glen Innes (N.S.W.). While in the dairy
getting milk, her hair became entangled in the
separator, and the whole scalp was torn off in a
couple of seconds. After being seen by local
medicos, she was trained to Sydney for treatment.
h
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale toy all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
ĥ
AGGREGATE BALANCE-SHEET OF THE
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, SEPTEMBER 30, 1902.
LIABILITIES.
Notes in Circulation .. £950,370 0 0
Deposits and accrued In-
terest 21,069,810 7 8
-22,020,180 7 8
Bills payable and other Liabilities (which
include Reserves held for Doubtful
Debts and Amount at Credit of Officers’
Fidelity Guarantee and Provident
Fund) 2,469,376 5 1
Paid-up Capital .. £2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,285,000 0 0
Profit and Loss .. 138,004 4 3
3,423,004 4 3
Contingent Liabilities—
Outstanding Credits
ments, as per contra
£27,912,560 17
and Endorse-
662,759 13
O'
4
£28,575,320 10 4
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion and Cash
Balances .. ..£5,137,695 1 6
Money at short call in
London 200,000 0 0
Advances to Governments 117,660 4 6
British and Colonial
Government Securities 1,645,101 1 9
Municipal and other
Securities .. .. 91,988 7 11
Queensland Government
Notes 143,286 0 0
Notes of other Banks .. 21,479 0. 0
Due by other Banks .. 104,987 4 9
£7,462,197 0 4
Bills Receivable, Bills Discounted, and
Remittances in transit 2,918,714 16 1
Loans and Advances to Customers ..16,876,649 0 7
Bank Premises 655,000 0 0
Liabilities of Customers and others on
Letters of Credit and Drafts, as per
contra 662,769 13 4
£28,575,320 10 4
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS, SEPTEMBER 30, 1902.
1902.
Sept. 30.—T0 Rebate (at current rates) on
Bills Discounted not due at
this date £7,725 6 1
„ Dividend at the rate of 10
per cent, per annum .. .. 100,000 0 0
„ Augmentation of the Reserve
Fund 15,000 0 0
„ Balance carried to “ Profit
and Loss,” New Account .. 15,278 18 2
£138,004 4 3
1902.
Mar. 31.—8 y Amount from last Account .. £12,049 17 10
1902.
Sept. 30. ~ Balance of Half-year’s Profits
after providing for Bad and
Doubtful Debts, reducing the
Valuation of Bank Premises,
and including recoveries from
Debts previously written off
as Bad 125,954 6 5
£138,004 4 3
RESERVE FUND, SEPTEMBER 30, 1902.
Dr.
Cr.
1902.
Sept. 30.—T0 Balance £1,300,000 0 0
(Of which £600,000 is in-
vested in British Govern-
ment Securities, and the
balance is employed in the
business of the Bank).
£1,300,000 0 0
1902.
Mar. 31.—8 y Balance £1,285,000 0
Sept. 30. „ Amount from Profit and
Loss 15,000 0
£1,300,000 0
1902.
Sept. 30. By Balance
0
0
0
. . £1,300,000 0 0
Jj__[t][rsSETjL FRENCH, General Manager,
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL BYE TROUBLES.
NEVER RAILS.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
INDIGESTION
y.
CURATIVE
means torturing pain, incessant
weariness, wretched days and
wakeful nights. It means being
“done up,” “played out,” “bowled
over,” “good-for-nothing” all the day
and every day. It means starved blood,
starved muscles, a starved body and a _
starved bi ain ; in short, it means shattered health
and a broken constitution unless you root it out with-
out delay. Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup is the national
remedy for indigestion in sixteen countries. Its unrivalled
reputation is backed by thirty-three years’ unbroken success
in curing Indigestion. It has brought hope and health to
countless thousands of half-dead dyspeptics in every
clime. It ciued Mr. C. A. Bonnett. It will cure you.
Bead his testimony: “ After suffering continuously
from acute indigestion and constipation for two years
my recovery was completely effected in six weeks by Mother Seigel’s
Syrup. It rapidly broke up the constipation, restored my appetite and
built up my strength. An occasional dose now keeps me in good order.
58, Currie Street, Adelaide.—March 24, 1902.” Substitutes are worth-
less and dangerous.
f
H
(Registered).
k
&
\
SooV^
Fisher and Co.’B
FAMOUS
PICK-ME-UP
-» TONIC
Freshly Prepared from the Celebrated
African KOLA NUTS (Cola Acuminata)L
*2
\
Every Morning and Before Each Meal drink v
“MIGHTY ALOK.”
It makes you eat and makes you strong.
On Shipboard to Tone the Stomach and prevent Sea-siokness “ALOK” is unsurpassed.
Take no Substitute. Insist upon being served with “ALOK.”
ALL HOTELS, WITH SODA WATER, 6cL PER GLASS.
All Chemists, 2s. 6d. and 3s. 6d. per bottle.
“ALOK” SAVES DOCTORS’ BILLS AND ENSURES CONSTANT GOOD HEALTH.
MANUFACTURING
PHARMACY—
337 GEORGE ST
(Nearly Oppo-
site G.P.0.),
Melbourne Agents: Messrs. Taylor Ferguson & Co., Flinders Lane.
SYDNEY
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company,
When in town, pay ua a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY ? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 Iss. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and d ~ '.Me), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles i; i ; : ock and made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent, more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Red-fern, SYDNEY-
OUB SPECIAL No. 8
£8 18/6
ħ
ttelirered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO IOA
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 30© pages
price, 4s. 6d.; postage, 6d.
The Imperial Obsession.
Writes “ M.”
A more-or-less prolonged condition of obsession is not
uncommon in the records of British statesmanship. Pitt
was under obsession of a ghastly sort when he bled Eng-
land white, and loaded her with debt in an effort to force
back on France the Bourbon, the priest, and the renegade
aristocrat. Gladstone and Disraeli were under obsession
of Cobdenism when, during the U.S. civil-war, they could
neither see nor feel the cosmic foroe of human right
beneath the Northern arms. And Chamberlain and
Balfour and Rosebery, with all other natural leaders of
the people, are in such obsession to-day as render
them blind to right and wrong, to justice and injustice ;
to put all reasonable pleas out of their mouths in any and
every cause i and force them back on loyalty, a thing of
their own invention, whenever action is questioned, or
proposal challenged. They dare not let any item of their
programme stand on its merits. The Education
Bill, which surely might be argued apart from
any question of the merits or demerits of its
authors, is thrust before Parliament, arbitrarily as
Meg Mkph.it,t.bb’ porridge-ladle before domine Sampson.
“ Gape, sinner, and swallow,” not because it is good, or
necessary for you, but because its rejection will involve
“our” condemnation. “Our” condition of obsession
renders ourselves and our acts taboo. Touch the Com-
mons (Doctors’ commons), says Proctor Spenlow, “ and
down comes the country.” Touch a Government
measure and down comes Brummagem Joeism and
Oecildom, which is about the same thing. So Parliament
believes, so the unled “ Liberalism” of England believes.
The obsession overshadows, if it does not dominate,
them all. The Education Bi'l does not matter
much. It is one of the familiar Tory self-denying
ordinances which, though worthless in themselves,
serve often as stepping-stones to ultimate achieve-
ment ; but when the same principle is dominant
throughout the policy of the time, there is need for
those who are awake and unbewitched to make a noise
and show a light. Obsession is the horrible antithesis of
inspiration. The obsessed is as the hypnotised. Is not
the obsession of the “ Empire ” in S’Africa new as
apparent as the results of any hypnotic suggestion ? Is
right or wrong more seriously considered now than in
the inception of the war? On the other hand, is any of
the thoroughness which has characterised world’s con-
querors discernible ? The war was fought that the Rand
might be worked according to the notions of British and
Semitic capitalists. The Rand, freed from Boer control,
is spoil of war. The Rand is estimated by some
experts to be capable of yielding £25,000,000 worth
of gold per annum for an incalculable period. But the
obsession of the Empire rulers renders the Rand taboo.
What 1 Stretch forth a hand against Cohen and Levy,
De Beers and Robinson, or Barnato or Rhodes’ execu-
tors? Obsession forbids. They are Imperial. Touch
them, and must not the whole Imperial fabric
tremble? Yet one-fourth of the estimated Rand
revenue would pay interest on the cost of the
war and provide a sinking-fund to clear the total
within 50 years. The unprejudiced view of the un-
hampered statesman, or the resolute will of the fearless
conqueror would instantly recognise and grasp the
opportunity ; but imperialism obsessed turns to the land,
as did “ mediaeval chivalry,” in any and every strait. The
land, and the people on the land must some day and
somehow pay up the cost. Beyond that it is impossible
to go. It is like enough to breed obstruction chill as
death, to surrender S’Africa once more to the Africander
Bond and arrest all the desire of colonization which had
been felt amongst the enterprising peoples of the world.
Apart from the Rand there is not one note of legitimate
progress heard, from Capetown to Buluwayo. Nor in
Britain is one voice of the old Liberalism raised in protest.
The nation is obsessed of a jingoism that has created an
idol of taboo, and declared the sin of heresy to be as the
sin of rebellion. Is not that condition reflected in Aus-
tmlia ? Are we not also, to some extent, obsessed of a
spurious Imperialism which demoralises, degrades, lets,
binders, be-devils us? Is there not throughout our
administrative and executive life a pitiful lack of com-
prehensive grasp and direct purpose, which savors of
spoiled statesmanship, of obsessed faculty? Australia
never asked more of Australians than now, and never
promised more for loyal and heart-whole service. But,
owing to the partial, the reflected obsession she asks
and promises in vain. When the true liberalism, the ele-
ments which should constitute the the pre-
sent, will awake, it is indeed difficult to say. One clear call
from one true leading voice would suffice; but no call
comes. Liberalism is leaderless, democracy anaemic, and
there is no present sign of deliverance on the horizon.
Humbug reigns, or rules behind the reigning power. The
Empire, puerile in the backwaters of her loudly-vaunted
triumphs, invites the contempt of mankind, and the
colonies bid for a share of the same contempt, though in
a callow and babyish style.
4
“F.”: Chief Justice Madden, summing up a
case of alleged “ impropriety ” —the sort of impro-
priety which ever moves the Waxellent person to
eloquence—told the jury to.remember that ‘‘the
law was for the protection of young girls who
yielded too readily. This girl had shown herself
to be immodest in a marked degree; she rejoiced
in sensuality, and was untruthful. The law must
be given effect to if a jury were satisfied that an
assault had been committed; even if the girl
forced it they must find the man guilty.” Yet,
there are women (of the aggressively virtuous
order, as a rule) who continue to clamor for
Rights, and demand to be put upin an equality
with man, the oppressor. Do they propose to
exchange old rights for new, or do they hope to
run legal equality in double harness with their
legal in-equality ? Lovely woman doesn’t help to
keep law’norder on sea or land as a sailor, a
soldier, a police constable, or a chucker-out;
nevertheless she considers herself entitled to vote
shoulder to shoulder with the man whom she can
charge with a criminal offence if he fails to resist
her amorous advances. Surely the enfranchised
female will relinquish her right to wreak legal
vengeance on the victim she has seduced with
violence. But, seeing that her intentions are
doubtful, it would be well to amend the law
relating to assault before the Suffrage Bill is
passed. Let us, O, let us have equality in assaults.


SPECTACLES
h
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, to
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, ourniarvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SICHT-MEASURINC PATENT.
By its use you can Test your own sight and de-
termine for yourself the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write for it to—
H» A* BARRACLOUGH, Optician*
371 George-st., Sydney, next A.J.S. Bank.
“Don’t shout”
'■ 1 hear you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
" How ?' Oh some
thing new —The Wilson
Common-sense Ear.
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now, you can't see them ,
they’re invisible. 1 wouldn’t
, know I bad them in myself.
‘. only that I hear all right."
The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
forking parts of the
natural ear Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other de-
f vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
!■». CHAthIBS, 229-23 1 Collins M., Help.
ĥ
——
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
ħ
Bought, Sold & Exchanged-
-9
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO., 88 Kingr-St.,
SYDNEY.
HOW TO KEEP COOL.
We stiongly recommend all who suffer
from the heat to add a few drops of Condy’s
Fluid to the Daily Bath or Foot Bath.
A Condy’s Fluid Bath imparts a most
delightful sensation of coolness, freshness
and purity, it invigorates the body and
brace? the nerves. The strengthening and.
cooling effects are Simply Magical. Tired
or Tender feet are instantly relieved. Book,
on bottle contains full directions.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists,
throughout the British Empire. Beware
of substitutes. Insist on having “ Condy’s.
Fluid.” Condy & Mitchell, of London,
England, are the only Makers and their,
name and address is at foot of label.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Claimed by N.S. W. Labor leader
M‘Gowan that Reid was ejected from office by
his party simply because he refused to introduce
an Early Closing Bill.
Thomas Bent’s new railway “ inspectors ”
(spies the employees call them), whose duty it is
to watch the staff, are all constituents of Brighton.
Their previous occupations were hotel-keeper,
book-maker, market-gardener, bricklayer, wood
merchant and laborer.
If Barton resigns the Premiership for the
Federal High Court, the more democratic of the
Cabinet’s followers would plump for Kingston as
his successor. He has the reputation, with the
Labor party especially, of being the strongest and
most sincere member of the Ministry.
The Jenkins Goverment in S.A. is finding
relief work (stone-breaking for rations only) for
the unemployed, who ivere by now to have been
all drawing good wages out of the Snow tram-
grab. To rub it in further, the rations supplied
in some cases seem to be unfit for use.
The Federal Govt, has definitely decided
to drop, in the new Defence Bill, those clauses
rendering the permanent forces liable to be called
upon for service outside the Commonwealth. It
was a matter of the clauses going out or the
Government going out, and the clauses went.
Last year N.S.W. State Labor Bureau
found work for 5389 unemployed—4sl2 got
Government work, mostly out of loan money, and
private employment was found for 877. The
proportions show a lamentable superabundance of
loan money and very little self-supporting em-
ployment.
The thin end of the wedge ! At the
Commonwealth Trades Union conference in
Sydney last week, in which Australian and State
M’s.P. formed a big proportion, it was moved and
unanimously carried “That this congress is of
opinion that the office of State Governor should
he abolished.”
THE CHURCH AS INFIDEL-MAKER.
THE CHURCHES AND LABOR. -Discussion AT
MELBOURNE TRADES HALL.
“Mr. Elliott protested against such a disintegrating
subject being introduced. The churches had no sym-
pathy with labor; their sympathies' were with the
enemies of labor.”— NEWS REPORT.
“ Don’t you think you could induce your husband
to attend church, my good woman?”
“ No.”
“Why not?—he believes in God I suppose?”
“No! that he doesn’t —says the Almighty's a hope-
less conservative.”
Premier John See deftly scratched the
back of N.S.W. and Australia generally, last week,
in a speech wherein he stated that the country,
despite its present bad condition, would pull
through triumphantly by reason of its immense
resources and the indomitable pluck and self-
reliance of its people. Their indomitable 1.0. U.
and reliance on the English money-lender was
doubtless what John really meant.
Stated that Premier Barton and Home Sec.
Lyne asked for a special train to take them from
the recent Maitland meeting and were refused
unless they paid for it. The alternative was to
hook their sleeping-car on to a slow goods-train.
N.S.W. Railway Commissioners acted quite
rightly ; there would have been no justification in
wasting £5O on a special to give a little extra
comfort t<> two politicians who look after them-
selves so well.
If the Irvine Government has half the
nous it claims, and really wants to do the farmers
a good turn, it will secretly and swiftly buy up
enough Victorian seed wheat to supply at least
half the State. If it doesn’t do this the farmers
will presently be forced either to use non-acelima-
tised, imported wheat, or mortgage their souls to
bulling speculators.
The Queensland sugar-industry returns
make interesting reading taken in conjunction
with the wails about the destruction of the
plantations which was to follow the disuse of
Kanaka labor. Up to Oct. 31 82,091 tons of
cane-sugar had been grown in the State by white
labor ; while, of the £18,918 granted for rebate,
no less than £15,000 had been paid to N.Q.
planters.
Defence Minister Forrest—after threaten-
ing the scalp of the Adelaide militia lieutenant,
who, at a meeting to form an Australian I,aval
League, characterised Admiral Beaumont’sgeneral
belittling of an Australian navy as “ utterly flip-
pant and wrong”—found that a man who joins
the unpaid volunteer forces for his country’s
defence doesn’t forego his right to individual
opinion and free speech. And Bigjohn promptly
backed down. There’s some reasonableness in
Bigjohn after all.
A discovery made by Andrews, the Vic-
torian Government’s most caustic critic, badly hit
Irvine on the raw. Andrews went back to the
time of Irvine’s first election when he found that
he stood against and beat a Patterson reform
candidate. Patterson’s reform was on exactly the
same lines as Irvine’s present proposals for saving
the blessed country. But in those days Irvine was
a, land-taxer who believed in getting the money
required to keep the State affairs in a decent way
by a scientific impost on land values.
The new N.S.W. Liquor Bill proposes to
retain the present licensing benches —usually com-
posed in the country of the local P.M. and the
two J’s.P. who have the least to do or the biggest
hunger for places where they can either exercise
power or pretend to. The lay-member is not
paid ; and, though no doubt he often does his
duty, and stands the loss that results, the chances
are that he isn’t always built that way. And
even if he always was built that way, it would still
be a mean thing for the public to ask men to do
that sort of work out of their own pockets, so to
speak.
The Westralian Assembly decided, by 20
votes against 14, not to reduce the salary of the
State Governor from £4OOO to £3OOO, because, as
Premier James put it, the reduction “was calcu-
lated to minimise the importance of the State and
to threaten State rights.” Query : How does the
importance of the Canadian province of Quebec
get on—Quebec which has 10 times Westralia’s
population, a Governor with £2OOO a year salary,
and only one House of Parliament ? The import-
ance of a State doesn’t depend on paying the
biggest gubernatorial salary, or having the biggest
Parliament House, or the biggest debt—or even
the biggest garbage-tip.
The S.A. Attorney-General thinks he has
found a hole in the Australian constitution by
which the State can claim to fix the polling places
at Senatorial elections, and with that small mean
desire to be nasty in a small mean way towards
their own Australian Parliament, which charac-
terises so many State functionaries, the Jenkins
Ministry is working up a disturbance over the
matter. Logically, on the same ground every
State constituency should fix its own polling
places at State elections. The cases are exactly
parallel, for at Senatorial elections S.A. is simply
a constituency, and Jenkins and Gordon are, by
comparison, about equivalent to a mayor and an
inspector of nuisances.
What may happen to a man who professes
Liberal views and supports a Tory Ministry was
well illustrated in Vic. Assembly last week.
W. A. Watt, who since his defeat for N. Melbourne
by Laborite Prendergast, has been all shades of
political opinion, and who managed to get back
into Parliament under the wing of the Irvine
Government, was forced to tell the House that he
intended to vote for the Ministerial proposal to
give the public servants separate representation
and to speak against said proposal. With A.N. A.
fluency. Watt remarked that such a position was
“perfectly defensible, altho’ somewhat para-
doxical.” “In what a labyrinth of nonsense,”
writes Junius, “does a man involve himself who
labors to maintain falsehood by argument.”
The weak “Lord Mayor” Gillott is the
melancholy jade of Vic. politics just now. Since
his lordship’s puerile desertion of Peacock he has
been cold-shouldered by his former colleagues,
and hasn’t succeeded in ingratiating himself with
Ministerialists, who can stand an ordinary turn-
coat, but not the kind who goes back without
warning on a colleague who had done so much for
him as Peacock did for Gillott. His lordship has
wilted away into the furthest seat in the Govt,
corner, where he sits with his invariable plug hat
down over his eyes, and nobody notices him.
Although so recently Attorney-General, he now
has no more political significance than a house-fly,
and if he wandered out of Parliament and never
came back, it is doubtful whether anyone would
be the wiser.
This is a cold country for a Ministry which
tries to make ends meet, and Tasmania is by no
means the hottest part of it. This, for instance,
is the moan of about the most influential daily in
Raspberry-land re the new income-tax :
What would be thought of a British Cabinet which, in
its last stages, and with a narrow majority, attempted to
impose new taxation to the extent of £20,000,000 on the
taxpayers of the United Kingdom ? Yet the two amounts
are proportional.
And the British Cabinet, quite lately, put on
£31,000,000 a year of new taxation —this on top of
much heavier previous taxation than Tasmania
paid—and what was said of it was mostly
“ Hooray ! ” The kind of Government they would
soeak badly of in Britain is the one which had a
£20,000,000 deficit in a time of peace, not one that
put on £20,000,000 to cover the deficit. Whatever
bad qualities Bull may have, he isn’t always
weeping about being expected to pay his way.
THE DROUGHT FIEND TAKES UP A COLLECTION.
Distribution of seed wheat in the Mallee and extension of lease to settlers;
being an honest attempt in the hot weather to illustrate current events.
Cigar importers in Australia still hold to
a hope of the modification of the Protection given
to local industry in the tobacco trade, and intend
a big lobbying campaign “ when the Federal Par-
liament is moved from Melbourne.” It is thought
that it will be easier to “influence” members
when they are got away from a big city.
Two months ago, Q. ex-Speaker Cowley
was severely condemned by the Philpocrats for
having suggested, as a remedy for the financial
trouble: “Sell the land; sell the railways;
abolish free education ! ” The first is now being
done as far as possible ; the second is proposed,
and the third is not far in the distance.
Previous Q. land Acts have contained
ample provisions against dummying and aggrega-
tion. The Administration has neglected to
enforce them. Noio the Administration argues
the said provisions were a dead letter—hence
useless. And now dummying is to be legalised,
aggregation to be legalised, and monopoly exalted
into a system.
The London financial institutions in-
terested in the passage of the present Queens-
land Land Bill have magnificent nerve. The
other day they wired out to the Brisbane
Press that they considered the measure inade-
quate, and that they were seriously annoyed at the
opposition offered to the Bill by the Q. Labor
party. Not cohtent with wagging the Philpocracy
they want to stifle the Opposition also.
The new Q. Land Bill, which contains
material for three months’ fair discussion, has
been brought in at the fag-end of a session, and
the Philp Govt, has made an attempt to rush it
through in a week’s time. A stonewall of some
24 hours, however, brought Philp and co- to
reason —and this scandalous measure may now
get some semblance of deliberate consideration.
“ H.L.” writes ;
Re that Queensland secession movement. Philp never
made a bigger mistake in all his existence if he thinks
that he could get a majority vote for disunion at a
referendum. Writer personally knows three, and has
heard of many more democrats who, though plainly
seeing the good points of the measure, voted against
Federation, solely because the Philp crowd were barrack-
ing for it. They argued that the traitorous, axe-grinding
crowd which had brought this State to its then level
would never support the Bill unless they saw something
in it to their own advantage and the undoing of De-
mocracy. Now the anti-piebald Bills have been passed,
likewise the Adult Suffrage Bill, and there is joy in the
tent of the Democrat. And the sight of the angry,
powerless Philp stuttering out his wrath against the
Australian Government gives the said tent-dwellers a
gratification which almost surpasseth understanding. By
all means let Philp have his referendum.
. Thus C. de Thierry in the Empire
Review :
Colonials are Protectionists by reason of necessity. . . .
The colonies care nothing for the abstract virtues of
Protectionism or Freetrade. What they do find is that
Protection suits them and Freetrade does not. . . . Not
only is it necessary as a means of revenue, but as a means
of defending themselves in the commei'cial war carried on
against the British Empire by foreign count ries. Finally,
they have found it answer well in developing home indus-
tries. Colonials being hard-headed men, naturally pay
more honor to experience than they do to Cobden Club
pamphlets. National politics may be, and are, based on
sentiment, but they are always carried out upon prac-
tical lines.
Which statement just about sums up the fiscal
situation, and explains why the policy of the
M‘Millan-Reid-Hirsch crowd has become such an
object of derision in Australia.
The Seddon Government came out on top
at the Maoriland General Election with a strong
majority of at least 28. The Local Option poll,
taken at the same time, would have come very
near to abolishing the drink trade in Maoriland
but for the fact that it requires a three-fifths
majority to carry Prohibition ; if a bare majority
had been sufficient, the great experiment would
have come off over a very large section of the
country. The Government party is divided
between the followers of Premier Seddon, who
has leanings towards a policy of economy, and the
believers in Treasurer Joseph Ward, whose idea
is to borrow all the money that anybody will lend,
and have a great debauch, and let the future take
care of itself. And the razzling and dazzling of
Joseph during Seddon’s absence has set the
country’s feet on a path that is not easily retraced.
The decision of the N.S.W. Parliamentary
Conference that public works should be inau-
gurated with extra energy, to provide relief for
drought - stricken agriculturists, has started
Minister Owe’Sullivan on a whirl of new loan-
money expenditure. Four new railways—Cobar
to Gehenna, Temora to Sheol, Bogan Gate to
Tophet, and Manilla to the Bottomless Pit —are
to be started immediately, and water conservation
works, roads, bridges, artesian-well sinking, the
snagging of rivers, and the wholesale repair of
public buildings are to be commenced. The very
day after the conference recommended loans and
public works as the usual remedy for distress, the
Owe’Sullivan was ordering railways and such-like
wholesale. The Owe’Sullivan’s idea goes into
two propositions : In good times, borrow lots of
money because the country can afford to pay the
interest; in bad times, borrow lots of money
because the country must have relief at any
hazard. Always borrow lots of money.
The Common-
wealth Constitu-
tion gives power to
provide for the “ de-
fence”of Australia,
and specifies that
the Federal Gov-
ernmentshall “pro-
tect every State
(.gainst invasion,”
but there is nothing
in the Constitution
which gives power
to provide a penny
for any fleet or any
armed force that
shall be used for
purposes of attack.
P remier Barton wi 11
please note that
his naval tribute
scheme, seeing that
it isn’t exclusively
defensive, is quite
illegal, and, if it is
persisted in, the
High Court may
order him to pay
the bill out of his
own pocket.
George Reid finds a scrap of consolation :
England’s real trials would begin when the United
States threw aside protection. Then would she have to
look out for her industrial supremacy. It was well for
her that that giant of enterprise, America, was kept in
the menagerie of protection.
Query : Why didn’t England’s trials begin
years ago when America practised Freetrade?
And seeing that the U.S., with If times Bri-
tain’s population, already manufactures times
as muoh as Britain does—s ay £1,200,000,000 a
year more—has Freetrade Brit ain any “ industrial
supremacy ” left to look after? Even in its trea-
sured cotton, woollen, and linen industries the
“ mother country ” has now dropped into the rear
and is toiling along in the dust-cl oud at the back
of the waggon.
“ An Ex-Teacher ” writes :
Is there any other N.S.W. Public Service department
wherein an officer becomes such a mere creature of cir-
cumstance as regards his financial condition as that of
Education? A teacher in any school below Class IV.
never really knows, under the present back-and-forth
system, what his salary may be in three months’ time. I
know a teacher up North—a 3B man—who, in ’99, was in
charge of two half-time schools. The aggregate atten-
dance when he took charge was about 25, and he was
paid 9th class salary accordingly. Being young and
ardent, he soon had the aggregate up to 40, his salary
rising to Bth class, or £24 better. Things remained thus
for 12 months, and then the bigger of his two schools was
declared a 9th class public, or “ full-time ” ; whereupon
the teacher, though he had achieved almost unique
reports, was ordered to take charge of the one school,
and his salary was lowered to 9th again (£24 less)- and
all this for excess of zeal. The officer’s classification
(3B) fully entitled him to the Bth class pay. lie was,
moreover, a married man.
George Reid says that if his party can
only win four Victorian seats at next elections for
the Australian Parliament “Freetrade will be
assured.” And if Reid’s party will only practise
Freetrade, The Bulletin almost hopes it may win
these seats. A year,, or two years, of genuine
Freetrade would end the Freetrade party in
Australia for a century. Hitherto it has called
itself a Freetrade party, which was a lie ; it has
said it was practising Freetrade, which was another
lie ; it has protected a large number of industries,
and assured the people that the benefits thereby
arising were the blessed results of Freetrade,
which was a third lie; and it has assured the
public that it believed Freetrade to be the best,
policy for the country, which was a fourth lie—•
unless it really believed what it said and was wil-
fully injuring the country by practising partial
Protection. And all the days of its life it has
been a coward and a liar —or else a traitor.
Extract from speech by N.S.W. Opposi-
tion-leader Carruthers :
In duties alone, N.S.W. would have to pay £250,000 in
one year on breadstuffs. A quarter of a million is taken,
in the name of Federation from the pockets of the people
who were practically in a state of famine ! The test
whether it was advisable to remove the duties was to.
suppose that the Government, with wheat at ss. a bushel,
and bread at 3|d. a loaf, and meat at famine prices, were
to come down with a proposal to impose duties on bread-
stuffs to the extent of £250,000 a year.
Also, in duties on breadstuffs alone N.S.W. will
receive £250,000 a year in the name of Federation,
and with all these beggared farmers (who don’t
want the fodder duties taken off, because they
have no animals left to feed) crying for costly
relief works, who but a fool would throw away
£250,000 ? As for bread being at the famine price
of 3Jd. a loaf, it was 3Jd. when Parkes, M‘Millan
and Carruthers were running the show on Free-
trade lines —it generally is 3Jd., or more, in Syd-
ney, and only in 17 years out of the last 81 has
it averaged less than that figure. It has been llid.
per 21b. loaf under Freetrade for that matter.
The organ of the Sydney kitchen wenches 1
plunges into politics are indeed amusing. It is.
trying to influence the Balmain election by shriek-
ing “sanctity of trial by jury,” which, it declares,
was endangered by the action of the Labor party-
(assisted, by the way, by Mr. Law) in the Fried-
man case. Trial by jury is designed to prevent
innocent men being gaoled by tyrants, not to see
that men about whose guilt there is doubt are
shut up. When trial by jury fails to safeguard
the liberty of the subject, it is time for it to be.
abolished. There is nothing sacred about the
system itself. The Sunday Times quotes some
barrister who declares that the Judge must abide
by the jury’s verdict : that barrister is as wise
as the Times. The Judge has the power at any
stage of the case to withdraw it from the jury
altogether and order an acquittal, and in some
cases he can direct the jury to find a verdict of
not guilty. He can do any of these things to,
liberate a man, but none of them to convict him ;
and is only bound by the jury’s verdict when it
is one of innocence. Juries are to see that a man
gets the benefit of all the doubts, not to ensure
convictions in spite of the Judge and the Crown.


PALING’S
BEST 6c CHEAPEST HOUSE for all
Catalogues Free
Wr i te for one
MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS
0 L t NS®<
J S-
h
-V&t V/py j
SNnOQNVH
w
« CORN ETS ° Ft\or\Zs/-
BAND INSTRUMENTS BY
BESSON BOOSEY arCOUESNON.
BANJOS
a
!/V
All Instruments
guaranteed
® MOUTH ORGANS O fro^3
The ©ushman j/5 and Ztj—
°AUTO-
HARPS*
d
GUITAR
ZITHERS*
FROA\I2/e
AC CORD EONS
FRO/^V
43s
CONCERTINAS
FRo/'a
8/6
W.H.PALING *cC < ?L T ° sssGeoS 1 Sydney.
15he ( Jshe Genuine)
LIPP PIANO.
L-IPP PIANOS are the leading
Pianos of German Manufac-
ture. They have been in -use
all over Australia for over
40 years long enough to
prove their merits.
i
p •••
£SSS> ?
Old Pianos taKen in Exchange
New Pianos Sold on Easy Terms
Catalogues Free.
W. H. Paling (Q. Co., Ltd.,
338 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
The newly-enfranchised women voters of
N.S.W. should read The Bulletin’s “A Policy
for the Commonwealth,” by James Edmond.
Post free from Bulletin office for 7d.
Another Little Sufferer Cured*
LUNG DISEASE,
MARASMUS,
and ULCER
CURED BY
VITADATIO
Read her Father’s Testimony.
Gordon-street, Elsternwick (Vic.),
October 4,1901.
Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir—l consider it my duty to inform you of the
marvellous cure by WEBBER’S VITADATIO of my
daughter, aged two years and nine months, from a com-
plication of diseases. Twelve months ago she became
very ill, suffering from diseased Lungs, Peritonitis,
Marasmus, Measles, and Abscess in the right eye, which
reduced her to a shadow, the local doctor in attendance
stating he could do no more for her, and thought it was
impossible for her to recover. At this time I was strongly
advised to give her VITADATIO, arid as a last resource I
did so. lam happy to say that she soon began to im-
prove and rapidly regained her health, and has remained
so ever since, thanks to VITADATIO, and in my opinion
it has been the means of restoring her to health. I am
well-known in Elsternwick, having resided here 12 years,
and all my acquaintances know of my child’s illness and
cure, and can testify to the truth of my statement.
I can confidently recommend it to others suffering from
any kind of disease after the cure of my child. As I am
removing to Perth, W.A., my address is—O/o Veale and
Co., Newcastle-street, Perth.
Yours faithfully,
W. H. ORANSWICK.
We, tfie undersigned, can truthfully certify to the
correctness of the above statement.
Mrs. John Sincock,
Plumber and Ironmonger,
Glen Hun tly-road, Elsternwick.
Mrs. Walter Nichol,
Art Upholsterer and Carpet Planner,
Glen Huntly-road, Elsternwick.
Mrs. Davies, Horne-St., Elsternwick.
Mrs. G. Blair, Gordon-St., Elsternwick.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER ,
18± Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The Price of Medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
Newman’s
Antiseptic Pastilles.
The Best for all Affections of thf. Throat.
TRY THEM. PRICE-ONE SHILLINC.
S. HARRIS, M.P,S., Pharmaceutical Chemist,
V-tLKi'lio.NK 2285. 82 KING-ST., SYDNEY.
The “Citizens’ Reform League,” which has
(in the newspaper columns) been taking such a big
part in the Sydney municipal elections, is a
gorgeous joke. Its creation is mostly due to a
smart D.T. reporter, and its meetings—well, has
it had one genuine meeting this year ?
Though, according to the official reports,
the last layer of water in Broken Hill reservoir
will not be dug out until the end of Feb., already,
by the end of Nov., it demands a strong constitu-
tion to take a shower-bath, let alone a drink, of
the highly-perfumed stuff. There is a bit of a
hill over which the street trams run; yet so
difficult is it to turn the alleged water into steam,
that the pull sticks up two motors with a load of
only two cars. And to give a good drink of it to
the poor wilted things that up there pass for
flowers is to condemn them to a rapid death.
Dear Bulletin. —Your par. re Kenniffs
(8., 11/22/’O2) is wrong. “ Kenniff, sen.” was not
on trial. [There were two brothers: one was
senior.— Ed. B.] Consequently, he did not “pro-
test his innocence,” nor did he “ curse the judge
with the bluest curse on record.” Neither did
anyone else. Both accused averred their inno-
cence, after the jury’s verdict of guilty was
recorded. Jim Kenniff, the younger of the twain,
said that the real murderer was a pastoral
magnate. It was this allegation, made from the
dock, and before sentence of death was passed,
that Chief Justice Griffith requested, not ordered,
the Press to refrain from publishing.—Yours,
Chee.
FOR COUNTRY VISITORS.
The Sydney Coffee
Palace Hotel,
LOWER DOMAIN
(Under New
Management)
is the Healthiest and Cleanest
Hotel in Sydney.
TERMS—From 6s. per day, and from 255.
per week.
ARTIFICIAL LIMBS
with AA marks
PATENT
RUBBER
FEET and
HANDS
ARE THE BEST
PROCURABLE.
ĥ
Sole Agentn and Manufacturers:
DENVER BROTHERS,
231 GEORGE ST ,
SYDNEY,
and at cor. Lonsdale & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Catalogues and Prices on application.
CALLAGHAN
SHOE
POST FREE
DUTY FREE
LADIES
Others
Have *
Ordered!
Why
Not
You?
V
This Shoe
made of American glace-kid, with
an up-to-date stylish toe-cap of patent
leather, and having the newly-fashioned
Collarette, as shown in the engraving.
12/11
Post and
Duty Free
13/6
Ladies ordering from the country can quite easily
get new and stylish Shoes BY POST ; they can get
all the advantages in value that keen city competi-
tion affords ; they can, by following the instructions we
give below, get an accurate, comfortable fit.
1. State size worn, and, if necessary, send an old Shoe as a check.
2. Place the foot upon a piece of paper and, firmly pressing it
down, draw a pencil line closely round it for shape of tread.
3. State if your foot is narrow, medium, or broad, as we have
different widths in every size of Shoe.
i. State whether broad, medium, or narrow toes required.
THIS SHOE b-
GRAPHED FROM STOOK
CALLAGHAN BOOTS or SHOES can be EXCHANGED if not correct,
as we wish DISTANT Customers to be as pleased as those in town.
Your Money RETURNED if you are not satisfied.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st., Sydney.
Please remit by P.O. Order or Postal Note.


Banking. Public Companies, &o.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Rannn+y _ mm
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
w
&
A
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
!VT.S,A7V.
fljont depiete D.^I.Co-.Ctd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
174. CASTLEREAGH ST., *7/L
1 SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager,
'—this—.
Colonial Mutual Life
assurance society limited,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Robb lira,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299—assurin'): £26,826,350.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
fie Bank of north Queensland
Liftin’HD.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director- JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 900 ... £350,000
The
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £451,307
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 181,859
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 56,000
£689,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen Manager, Enwn. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Queensland Smelting (Jumpy.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street. Melbourne.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M’Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farouhar. J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital ... . • £2,500,000^
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £9576 13 4
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROVVMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. 1,300,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. .-. ... .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,300,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Chas. K. Macrkllar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaijrin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reoinald James Black, M.L C.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors:
llarrinoton Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies, New Zealand
and Fiji; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
Tne Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2n, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Shipping.
3XT- 33. n..
(NORD-DEUTSOHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OP
Twin Screw Steamers.
GiffSi 1°- & fc > Nap’es. Genoa,
T . , Awm-awcw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Wednesday after Sydney.
f^ ln r> ei . tate , I ' lrs * i Class Return Tickets are now available
Pnoifi tUrn M b A V r H l6 , Steamers of th e !*• and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co. s.
. „ TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. TANGLIN, 7th JANUARY,
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities .Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, Cl\ ILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents.
WEBER LOIIMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, (Sydney. h
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEDIC, to Sail on or about 24th DECEMBER.
AFRIC, SUEVIC, PERSIC, and RUNIC
to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 27 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 26 to 33 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dattjety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
jjuddart, Parker & Co’s Cine
MEMiOUKNN,
LAUNCESTON,
HOBART,
WEST AUSTItALIA,
NEW ZISALAND POUTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
A.M3D
LIKTE
via
San Francisco,
California.
FASTEST ANP BEST
ROUTE
TO
ENGLAND,
Via America and Canada*
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq. .. . . .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
E. W. Knox, Esq.
Auditors :
W. L. Docker, Esq. Hon. I<\ T. Humpiiery, M.L.C.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNFY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gadeu,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H S
Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
25 No. 56 ACETYLENE GAS Catalogue
r
\
*■
:«v: •;
is the MOST 00 MPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Best
ACETYLENE CAS GENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, and
everything in connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Gas
Generators
in daily use.
Large Stocks of the
Best
Carbide
ofCalcium
Quotations on application.
James MARTIN & CO.,
161 Clarence Street,
Nr. King-st., Sydney.
EVERY WOMAN
ħ
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Manel Whirling Spray
The new Vaginal Syringe.
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. Endorsed by l’liysiclans.
MARVEL CO., Times Building, N. Y.
Solk Australasian Auenis—
The Marvel Co. of Australia,
(Box 623 G.P.0.) CAHDEN BUILDINGS,
418 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Medical.
The Wonderful EYE Remedy,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED
Eye Lotion,
Is Equally Successful on the Eyes of
Cattle, Sheep, Poultry, &c.
THE GREAT
/ OVERSEA )
\ OVEREAND /
HIGHWAY
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM,
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, and AMERICA.
The NEWEST, LARGEST (6000 Tons each), FASTEST,
and ONLY TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS engaged in
the TRANS PACIFIC PASSENGER SERVICE from
Australia and New Zealand.
Round the World Itineraries complied.
OCEA NIC STEAMSHIP CO., T'JT).
BURNS, PITILP & CO., LTD., Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
To Canada, United States & Europe.
Connecting at Vancouver with the
Canadian-Pacific Railway.
Affording an Excellence of Service not Obtainable
Elsewhere.
DELIGHTFUL VOYAGE ACROSS THE PACIFIC
OCEAN, CALLING AT FIJI & HAWAII.
Magnificent Rocky Mountain Scenery.
Unrivalled Rail Service.
The Best, the Safest, and Most Interesting: Route.
SALOON to LONDON, £35 to £66.
NEXT SAILINGS—
DEC. 29, JAN. 26, FEB.
23.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE’S
rNLOROPyNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BBOHOHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ot
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation."
VEGETAB
LE
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
Speedily cures Acidity, Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, &c. It
destroys all disease germs, and,absorbing all impuri-
ties in the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards off all attacks of Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BRAGG’S PiJRE CHARCOAL POWDER in
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
pleasant to take). Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Having had comolaints of the injury done by other
preparations,please see that each Bottle orTin bears
the Trade Mark ‘J.L.B., in monogram,’on the wrapper.
LADIES—>■
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address—L>D>Kj 300 Collins St>i IVlelbourn©
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LI MIT HD).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Yictorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
POET PIRIE
And GULF PORT 3
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippinpat Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Warrego,
Friday, December 5.
S.S. Marloo,
Saturday, December 6.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Porta North to Cairns
S.S. Innamineka, Saturday,
December 6.
S.S. Warrego, Sat., Dec. 13.
S.S. Rockton, Sat., Dec. 20.
Rest and Cheapest lloute to OoldfleUls.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. IM. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Maokay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON- Twice weekly, via Bris-
bane, Maryborough, and Bundaberg.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 8 Weeks, via Brls
bane, Townsville, Cooktovvn, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
via MELBOURNE—Fortnightly.
Vaneent/er A ccommodution, Attendance and
Cnieine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after ths
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Agents, 1(1 Bridge*
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P AND COMPANY’S
■' ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £/7
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific,
Messageries Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS hooked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS' (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. ANP A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Onrwin. .
Steamer. iTns, Commander. iLeave Sydney.
AIRLIE 2500 St. John George.. December 6
AUSTRALIAN .. 3000 P. T. Helms ..'January 3
EMPIRE .. 420(1\V. G. McArthur. .'January 21
EASTERN ... 3600 VVinthrop Ellis ..February
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Through bookings to points in Canada, United States
of America and Europe at special rates.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
Lowest Fares and Freights.
For further information apply to
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
. . SMOKE.
h
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
on
having this Brand
and no other.
Largest Depot:
231 CLAR€NC€ STR€€T,
SYDNEY.


A few weeks ago, Pierpont Morgan
loomed across the world as the man who had
brought about the decline and fall of British
maritime supremacy. To-day he is comparatively
small potatoes, and is a cheerful example of the
powerlessness of Private Enterprise when it runs
up against the State. By lending a little
assistance to the Cunard co. the British Govern-
ment has just about pulverised the Morgan com-
bine, and that gigantic; corporation at once made
haste to come to terms. In all probability the
combine will go to bits. It bought up existing
lines at a tremendous capitalisation, and by virtue
of its monopoly, and its reduction of expenses,
and having only one ship leaving England and the
11. S. A. every day, all sorts of channels of waste
of energy were to have been closed up. It may
still achieve the saving, but it has not secured the
monopoly, and the business has been so over-
capitalised that nothing but an absolute monopoly
could possibly make it pay. Morgan will go
down in history as another of the splendid
failures around'which hang almost as much glory
as if they had been successes.
“Malle” writes re the waste of public
funds (mostly borrowed from Bull), caused by the
various N.S.W. Govt, departments working dead
against each other:
Most departmental heads fancy themselves tin gods
and the other fellows mere unpleasant circumstances. If
a private person owned, say, a mine and a farm, and the
manager of one would not allow the other the use of any
gear, etc., he was not using himself (thus putting the
owner to a lot of needless expenses), both these swell-
headed persons would soon bo minus a job.
Most of the country along the coast from Long Bay to
La Perouse is, for some unaccountable reason, a military
reserve. The Roads Department opened a fine white-
metal quarry on this area, and now the military authori-
ties, finding a hole ready excavated for them, have
installed an electric plant therein, and refused the
common road-people access. Here is the only decent
metal procurable for miles, and it means a very heavy
extra annual expenditure to buy and cart blue metal
to the locality. Also the Railway Construction Depart-
ment, after much trouble, got leave to remove a few loads
of turf from the said reserve. More was wanted, but,
although no use is being made of the ground, and the
couch-grass would inside 12 months be as thick as ever,
a haughty warrior came along and objected. In cases of
this kind some tribunal should be empowered to direct
that the people’s property can be taken for public pur-
poses when there is a manifest advantage to be gained
thereby, and no toney public servant should be allowed
to run away with the idea that public property, which
happens to be vested in his Department, ceases to be
public property ; nor should any such superiah person be
allowed to override the interests of his employer—the
public. »
THE PANAMA HAT CRAZE.
This can be indulged at a small expense if you send to
CHARLES GILBERT’S (the leading Panama
Hat House), Queen-street, Brisbane, who,
having just returned from the centres of manufacture
for these scarce linss, can supply either folding or Alpine
shape at 18/6, 22/6, 25/-, 30/-, 35/- to 45/- (cash with
order), securely packed and carriage paid to any address.
Southern States values simply not in it. A trial order
will convince you.
nil
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITOR^
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTB and DANCING F1.00R3
of various sizes supplied.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos.,
55., P. 0.0, or stamps.
8 RECKNACEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Germany.
DON’T MISS THIS
OPPORTUNITY, if you are suffering with WEAKENING,
NERVOUS, and DEBILITATING Diseases. Our CON-
CENTRATED BOTANIC REMEDIES will CURE YOU.
So CONFIDENT are we of this that we will send to any
sufferer a TRIAL COURSE (Free of Charge) and abide
by the RESULT. Send NOW and your ultimate CURE
is CERTAIN. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Eiizabeth-street, Sydney.
MARY’S LINIMENT
is a Marvellous Remedj'. It is no quack re-
paration, but an old and tried Cure for
CHEST COMPLAINTS and ACHES OF
ALL KINDS.
It will cure the Every=Day Ache, the Sprain
of the Daily Toiler, the Tired Muscles of the
Cyclist or the Athlete, the Sore Throat, the
Tight Chest, the Cramped Limbs and Stiff
Neck, and it will give Relief to the Sufferer
from Rheumatism, Lumbago, Influenza, Pains,
Stomach Cramps, and, above all, to Women
who Suffer from “A Back.”
MARY’S LINIMENT
The Universal Ache Remedy
To be had from all Chemists and Storekeepers.
In Stoppered Bottles, ONE SHILLING.
WHOLESALE AGENTS—
ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Limited
OConnsll-street, Sydney,
ħ
All Photographers
will be Pleased
to welcome the substantial reduc-
tion of 25 per cent, in the price
of “ AUSTRAL ” Printing
Papers, which are largely used
by all Photographers in the
Commonwealth.
BROMIDE, PEARL, and STAR PAPERS from 6d. per Doz. |-plate
Sheets to 14s. per 10ft* Roll 40 inches wide.
AUSTRAL SUN P.O.P. PAPERS Is. per packet. All Sizes to 12x10.
All Papers fresh from
Factory to Consumer.
AUSTRAL PRETONE for SUN
P.O.P. does away with the necessity
for Washing before Toning and
Fixing i
The Baker & Rouse Proprietary, Ltd.
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and BRISBANE.
The VOLCANIC
DERATING
MACHINE
h
ĥ
Important to Hotelkeepers
MAKE YOUR OWN
SODA WATER, LEMONADE, GINGER ALE, and
all other /Erated Drinks, with
The “||oleanic”
{rated Water Machine
The Waters are Pure, Bright and Sparkling, and
the cost of making them a mere trifle.
NO SKILLED LABOR REQUIRED.
A few reasons why the “ Volcanic ” Machine is superior to ail others.
1. The Valve works automatically ; no other aerating machine of this class has an Automatic Valve.
2. The Water Cylinder holds 10 gals., and has two perforated partitions inside, causing the sparkle so much
appreciated; Weight, 801bs. Copper, thoroughly tinned inside and outside.
3. The gas tube holds 571bs. pure gas, being much larger than the tubes supplied with other plants.
4. The Turn-over Bottling Rack is made of the best metal. Thirty dozen per hour can be bottled with it.
5 The “ VOLCANIC ” Machine is the only one of its kind erected in the leading houses in Meloourne,
including—The Grand Hotel, Parer’s Crystal Cafe, Parer’s The Duke Cafe, Young and Jackson’s, J.
Richardson’s Hotel, Bourke-st., Evans’ Covent Garden Oaf 6, Lucas Oafb, Town Hall Hotel, Sheehans
New Treasury Hotel, Rubira’s Caf6, Victoria Coffee Palace, Hotel Metropole, Imperial, Lucas Bros.
(Confectioners), Bath’s Hotel, Union Club, Britannia, Australian, A.N.A., City Arms, etc., etc. Also
many others in the suburbs and the leading houses in the country.
Price, £3O, with ail accessories.
Smaller Machine on same principle, £2O.
SPECIAL NOTICE.— The “ VOLCANIC ” Machine was the first of its kind introduced into Australasia.
It received the Gold Medal against all competitors at the Ballarat Exhibition.
Write for Pamphlets, containing Testimonials from people who have used the machines for years.
W. JAMES, Proprietor,
Office: 101 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
Depot : 130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
i
=53
r Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
i
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY in
BARTER’
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
They TOUGH the
Be
L
Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
Carter's
THE WORLD’S GRANDEST . .
..—CIGARETTE
<W& Express
(VIRGINIA GRADE)
No. 555
Absolutely Unique in Quality.
A Revelation to all Cigarette Smoker*.
No. 999
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Ltd., Wholesale Tobacconists,
Wholesale Agents for Australia. and BRISBANE
Sole Manufaiturers: ARDATH TO3AC3O CO., 41 Worship Street, London, England.
“On Our Selection.” By “ Steele Ruclcl.’
Price, 65., Postage Bd.. from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
POPULAR SONGS
31%,-.
Eminent
Composers
“If I were Loved by Thee” .. .. Piccolomini
“ Breaking: the Ice ’* Pontet
“ Parted but Unchanged” .. J. Sewell Southgate
“Song: of Love and Death” Barnett
OF ALL MUSICSELLERS.
W. PAXTON & GO.} London, Melbourne
TJSE
SPOONER’S
SPOONERS
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
800 l Shops, Saddlers, ete
JN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever .seen in the
jewellery trade— viz., the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
Oct. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant ; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0, or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. t wisted wire, 15ct
gold, filled, Bs. Gd. Illustrated catalogues sent free.
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address—
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA
ħ
h
Plumbing,
Heating,
Ventilating,
' Are now important
items in the build-
ing of every home. A young man thorough-
ly equipped for this work always in demand.
These three subjects combined in one course
and taught at home by correspondence:
also SI earn, Mechanical and Jilectrical
Engineering:, Mechanical Drawing, etc.
The advanced subjects are taught by regular
teachers in Boston’s famous technical schools.
Write for information and Handbook “ B.”
American School of Correspondence, at
Armour Institute of Technology.
Sydney Address, Box 629, G.P.O.
Free for Asking.
WRITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking-, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to Proprietor, Box 135, G.P.0., Adelaide, S.A.
DRUNK CURED
ENNESS
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free.
W. LANGSTON, M R.C.S.. Eng .
68 Russell St., Melbourne.
Rescued
From Drink
by a new discovery, odorless and tasteless, which any lady
can give in tea, coffee or food. It does its work so silently
and surely that while the devoted wife, sister or daughter
looks on, the drunkard is reclaimed, even against his will
and without his knowledge or co-operation. Send name
and address to THE EUOEASY 00., 62 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W., and they will send you booklet and
particulars free.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
ĥ
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAn.


A LL THE First and Second Prizes for Port Wines
, ir _ at Adelaide Wine Show, October, 1902,
Were Taken by
Hardy’s Adelaide Wines
Cellars : IS CROSVENOR ST., SYDNEY, and at ADELAIDE and MELBOURNE.
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
A Sudden Twinge.
A sudden twinge of pain is generally the first
warning of an attack of rheumatism. It feels
as if the disease were in the bones or muscles,
ħ
but the real cause of
rheumatism is found
in impure blood. In
order to cure rheuma-
tism, the blood must
be cleansed of the poi-
sonous matters which
are the cause of the
disease. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills
have been very success-
ful in the cure of
rheumatism, because
they entirely cleanse
the blood from the
poisonous substances
which are the cause of
the disease; they not
only purify the blood,
but by increasing the
activity of the blood-
making glands, they
increase the supply of
pure, rich blood, which
adds to the vigor of
Lis own experience along this line. “Some years
ago, while fishing, I got very wet, the consequence
being a frightful attack of influenza, which ended
with rheumatic fever. I was under the doctor's
care for months, but got little relief. At last I
tried Dk. Moksk’s Indian Root Pills, and after
taking three or four bottles, the pains in my legs
and back became less, and in a short time I was
able to be about again. Besides curing my
rheumatism, the pills improved my general
health, and I may say that I am perfectly cured.”
SPECIAL NOTICE
The Xmas Number
t “The Bulletin”
will be published on
Thursday, 11th December.
“The Bulletin’s” Xmas Number has always been
good. It will be good this time.j
Single copies posted to any Australian address for 7d.,
abroad Bd.
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
ADVERTISER, a live man, of good address,
well connected and of excellent character,
desires employment as Canvasser for some good
line—combined, if necessary, with secretarial
work. Has strong recommendation from The
Bulletin, and could give any reasonable security
demanded. A.G.M., Bulletin Office.
h
“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
j HREE STAR
“Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
TL3 Lancet.
ĥ
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Lady Grafton-First Consul duel, ’tween crack
jocks Barden and Smith at Randwick, Saturday week,
was repeated at Warwick Farm last Saturday, when
former, up on Dady Grafton again, and latter, on Bar
One, had the finish of the big thing to themselves. Smith
just landed the money, but not by quite as narrow a
margin as Barden succeeded with the week before.
Apropos Barden. Figured out, anyone putting £1 on his
first mount at Randwick, t’other day, and “playing it
up” on the other two would have handled £336, but a
fourth investment meant disaster, as he finished third in
the last race.
» * * •
Adelaide Tatt.’s summer meet, Saturday, run
off in wind and dust, was only fairly attended, but
£6550 went through the machine. Depping races were
unlucky for riders and nags. Eight boys were fined 10s.
for being late at the post in hurdles, and £1 each for a
like offence in steeple. First of these events resulted in
horses Conference and Buccleuch being killed, and Harry
having his shoulder put out, while ’chase saw Lightfoot
break his back and rider Joskin’s collarbone. In Young-
ster’s Handicap, Bombala and First Fleece dead-heated.
Bombala’s owner refused to whack the stake, and that
prad won easily, but Bombala’s jock failed to pull the
weight and First Fleece got the money. There’s a moral
in this ; it, to an extent, recalls the Vanity Fair-Eleanor
dead-heat for Williamstown Cup a week or two since.
* * * *
The Abbess, winner of Sandhurst Cup, is half-
sister, by Bill of Portland, to Seclusion, recently pur-
chased by French brandy man Ilennessy, and was bred
by Mr. “Jimmy” Wilson, jun., who, estimating her by
no means a top-notcher, took £lOO for the mare some
time back. Since then she has been on the job con-
sistently. After running second to Rescued at last
Williamstown Cup meet she, next day, closed on Fare-
well Handicap, and, two days further on, Aspendale Park
Handicap. Then she finished second to Sans Peur in
Mentone Handicap. But ’tis told now that The Abbess
should not have won, for jock (F. Dunn) on Godwin is
alleged to have mistaken a starting machine 40 yards
from the judge for the winning post, otherwise, he claims,
the race would have been sure for his mount.
• * * *
The Abbess, who won Sandhurst Cup (a 20 to 1
chance), is seemingly a better mare than the stable
reckoned her, but like many of the Bill of Portland stock,
she is not easily ripened. Burn, who made a good finish
on her, was to have ridden stable-companion Cluster, but
couldn’t get within 41bs. of the latter’s weight.
**■ • *
Winner of big thing (Bendigo Handicap) of
Sandhurst Cup meet, second day, turned up in Rupert
Clarke’s 4yr.-old gelding, Fairy States, by Hova from
Judy Mo. ’Twas Fairy States who recently appropriated
Maribyrnong Cup, beating easily, among others, The
Victory, who seven days later scooped Melbourne Cup.
* * * *
Seaport, by Portsea-Opera, won a handicap
at Caulfield the other Saturday, his first victory since
July, ’99, when he was a promising 2-year-old. Ever since
he was backed for the Australian Cup as a 3-year-old,
little Seaport has been spoken of as likely to win a great
race, but somehow he was never ready when wanted.
Now that they have got him in something like condition,
the 5-year-old may go on and prosper. He looks as good
as his sire, Portsea, who won a memorable champion race.
* * * »
The question of stamina in The Persian’s case
has still to be settled in public. Fielder was confident
about the tall gelding’s ability to go the Melb. Cup
course, but many good judges wouldn’t have him as a
2-miler, even with his lenient weight, 7.8. Melb. Cup
was The Persian’s chance had he been given a fair passage.
If he is to win a long distance race in the future he will
have to carry a lot more than 7.8.
* * * •
Possibilities for coming Yilliers and Carrington
Stakes were seen out at Warwick Farm, Saturday, in
Cecil Rhodes and Pendant, both of whom evidenced
unusual and unexpected galloping ability. Pipe-
opener at Randwick a week before evidently did Pendant
a heap of good, for she absolutely romped away from her
field, giving well-backed first-class up-country performer,
Gmceton, who ran second, absolutely no hope at any
time. Balance of the field was spread-eagled. Pen-
dant was weightily supported in city “shops” and on
the course till it wasn’t possible to back her under 6 to 4
“on.” She is by Far Niente from Necklet, by Musket
from Docket (imp.), dam of Bangle, Chain Shot and
Medallion.
• * „ * _> *
Likelihood of same nag winning Ak’J.C. Yilliers
and Tatts. Carrington Stakes Xmas time, as has occasion-
ally occurred heretofore, is minimised now through first-
named being extended to one mile.
* » * »
A coincidence ! Racehorse Aerolite was killed
by lightning recently atTamworth (N.S.W.)
• « • *
An office-bearer of a Melbourne suburban
Anglican church has been called on to resign because he
drew a horse in ‘ ‘ Tattersall’s.”
* * * *
A claim at Flemington (Vic.) Co'irt lately by a
bookmaker’s clerk for 5 per cent, on his employer’s
“ Carnival ” winnings, as part of his wages, revealed that
said boss —an “ inside ” Ikey—cleared between £3OO and
£4OO during Cup week, ’Ol, and over £4OO this year from
Caulfield Guineas to Williamstown Cup. That is one
Ikey among hundreds. No wonder he combines with the
church to block the clean, honest tote which doesn’t
make a hundredth of such profits, and needs no runners
or tick-tackers, and doesn’t care tuppence whether every
horse in a race is stiff or not.
* * » »
When the weights came out for last Caulfield
and Melb. Cups every sporting writer in Australia gave
Lieut. Bill and Flagship for Caulfield and Victory for
Melb. Cup as being likely winners ; and yet, when the
day for final selection came, Bill was discarded for his
race, and only two papers mentioned The Victory for the
Cup, and the “ mentioning” was somewhat feeble at that.
The stars and the tipsters in their courses fight for the
chosen.
* • * *
The mighty fallen. Great old Splendor, sire of
winners of 400 races and something in excess of £45,000,
has come down to the position of an ordinary country
stallion. Mr. Frank Mack bought him at dispersal of
Tocal stud, and a day or two ago parted with his pur-
chase to a Cobbora (N.S.W.) settler. Splendor is 22
years of age, and by Speculum.
' * * « *
Narrabri (N.S.W.) races, t’other day, discovered
something worth watching. Five-year-old gelding
Weetah, by Mozart out of a Gozo mare, gathered three
handicaps easily (humping 9.7 once), and shaped well
enough to indicate that even in metropolitan company
he’d be worth an investment.
* » * »
M.L. jock., C. Jeukins, was up on 6 winners,
1 second, and 2 thirds in 9 starts at M.L. Cup meeting.
Hewitt got very close to this, scoring 5 firsts, 2 seconds
and 1 third.
* » * *
Unquestionably one of the best mares ever bred
in M.L. was Lady Zetland, who succumbed while foaling
to imported Obligato, t’other day. She was by Perkin
Warbeck 11. out of Forget-Me-Not, and never did much
good till turning 4yrs. ; then she won frequently and
consistently for perhaps five years subsequently. She
finished up sensationally by winning M.D. and Canter-
bury Cups. Dady Dilian is the best of her progeny so far,
but a yearling by Obligato promises handsomely.
* * • »
Cabled that whilom Australian cash Ikey,
Sievier (“ Sutton ”), leads English turf-winners’ present
season With £23,686. Nothing as big as this has been
known since ’9B. Dast year Sir J. B. Maple (£21,370)
made the greatest haul. Four rears ago nags owned by
Mr. D. de Rothschild brought him £30,267.
* • • *
Tas. Govt, proposes in its Stamp Duties Bill to
impose a penny tax on every five shillings put into Tatt.’s
sweeps. Probably Tatt. won’t protest seriously ; it will
be but another bulwark to his business.
» * • •
The Australian cricketers found the S’African
teams quite worthy of their mettle. Regular matches
are talked of, and Major Wardill hints at a S’African visit
to Australia in 1903.
* * * *
N.S.W. cricket fatalities recorded last week :
At Sans Souci (Sydney) a wicket-keeper was struck in the
neck with the ball, and died soon afterwards. Tarana
(N.S.W.) saw Charles Mudge struck on the chest with the
ball and die two hours later. Nobody arrested, no police
court proceedings. How different if a boxer dies as the
result of a fall or lack of.condition 1 The police make
arrests and issue summonses, the unco’ guid elevate their
hands in holy horror, and the press publishes articles
on the “brutality” of the thing, yet only one fatality
occurs in years through boxing.
* * * *
English critics are discussing Saunders. Their
brethren of Australia discussed him similarly before he
went ’Ome. Most Dondon cricket scribes agree that the
Victorian left hander sends down a ball occasionally which,
at least, isn’t exactly what it ought to be. One of them
puts it—“ Saunders has one undoubted ‘ wrong ’un,’ and
one of the wonders of the year has been that not one of
the umpires has called him.” Many capable judges who
have seen Saunders at work will experience little difficulty
in coming to the conclusion that at any rate English
umpires haven’t been harsh.
. * • • «
In second-grade cricket-match, Paddington v.
Central Cumberland, at Parramatta, two batsmen pasted
a bowler unmercifully, getting 1,1, 5,6, 4 off five succes-
sive balls, and drove the sixth straight back, flattening
the bowler out for several seconds as clean as freckle-
fisted Fitzsimmons might have done it with a punch on
the point. Case of adding injury to insult.
* * * *
“Point”: Has this ever been equalled? At
Narandera (N.S.W.), t’other day, one Hocking caught
seven men in a single innings.
* « * •
“Renard”: At Clermont (Q.), last week, in a
match between two local cricket teams, a bowler named
Kenyon took 5 wickets with 5 consecutive balls. The
last ball of the over just missed the bails, and with the
first ball of his next over he scattered the stumps—s con-
secutive wickets, and 6 wickets in 7 balls. In another
match, played at the Springs (near Clermont), in the 2nd
of the visiting team, the first 3 batsmen were
caught off the firsts balls bowled, and the last 3 balls of
the match each took the middle stump. The innings
thus began and ended with a “ hat-trick.”
• • • •
Albert Trott comes out again as “coach’’for
Hawkes Bay (M.D.) cricket club this season. Some
English 'professionals make a good thing out of such
periodical visits during the “ off ” time.
• » » *
Charlie Gregory, playing with Waverley,
Sydney, tasted the bitterness of cricket recently against
University when he scored a century first innings and a
duck the second.
<•• • •
“B.B.”: There is a bitter feeling in inner
N.S.W. cricket circles that Victoria will probably have a
majority of reps, in the proposed Rest of Australia v.
Australian Eleven fixture. The exceptional form shown
by Graham, Stuckey and M’Alister with the bat, and
Laver and Collins with the-ball, cause such players to be
regarded as certainties. Then there is old Geo. Giffen,
Dake and Gehrs, of S.A. —which leaves but three reps, for
N.S.W. if the match is to be 11 a-side.
* * • •
The l.uck of cricket l . In a competition match at
Adelaide last Saturday, West Torrens v. East Adelaide,
former won the toss, and F. Jarvis (one of its best bats)
being absent, sent East Adelaiders to the wickets,
whereupon they smote to such purpose that at the end of
the day’s play 377 runs were on the board for but one
wicket —Gehrs getting 196 and Dake 171 not out. They
are not taking any “ sending opponents in ” at Adelaide
now !
* * * •
Bowlers pretty well owned the situation in
Sydney first-grade cricket, Saturday, through rain that
morning and previous day. Sydney District declared its
innings—six for 299, made a week before—closed straight-
way, and aboriginal Marsh treated the Central Cum-
berlanders to a lively time. Sending them in a perfect
length he gathered six for 23, and, with luck, might have
done a heap better, for close shaves were frequent. The
innings closed for 45. Second effort produced 153, leaving
Sydney winners by an innings and 101 runs. Farquhar
and PyeL in C.C.’s second turn at wickets, hit brilliantly
for 58 and 35. Waverley walloped ’Varsity by 146;
Howard did most of the damage for former, scattering
seven for 34 in a total of 106. With Redfern’s 188 and 112
to go up against, Deichhardt-Balmain compiled 144, and
lost by 44 on the first innings. E. Hume (Redfern) bagged
seven for 57, and Sullivan (Deichhardt-Balmain) seven for
53. Glebe man Duggan, opposed to Paddington, was 92
not out previous Saturday, but only managed to add one.
Glebe “ declared” with seven for 282,'and then sent Pad-
dington pavilionwards for 122. For the latter, veteran
“ Alick” Bannerman accumulated 27—one less than that
other old ’un at the game, Iredale. This is Glebe’s first
triumph present season. North Sydney bested Burwood,
with eight wickets to„the good. Waverley now tops the
list (6 points), Sydney, Redfern and North Sydney are
next (4 each).
* * * *
The Bulletin’s London correspondent:—
“ Albert Trott, ‘Bobby’ Abel, and others playing cricket
with tennis rackets at Dords was a peculiar and funny
spectacle. The new game—a Yankee-Canuck one—is
called ‘Vigoro,’ and is practically tennis mm cricket.
The wickets are M-shaped, with the V towards the server,
and of net frames 2Jft. high by 3ft. in breath. Seven a
side, or less, every soul with a strong racket. The
‘bowler’ serves the soft rubber ball with his racket, the
‘ batsman ’ hits at it with a racket, and the ‘ wiket ’
(as it is termed) keeper stops with a racket, as do the
fieldsmen, though they may use a hand, but must
• throw in ’ with a racket. Altogether a ‘ racket-ty ’
game and very lively. You are ‘caught out’ on, and only
by, a racket, and this takes some doing. The match was
Players v. Pros., and the latter were whacked in an
innings. P. F. Warner, George (Ethel Haydon) Robey,
and Eustace H. Miles, the European tennis champion,
took part, ‘A.E.’ scored top twice for the losers, and
said the ‘ bowling ’ gave his arm—well! ”
• » * *
Looks as if 50 miles within the hour is possible
on a bike. Oct. 24 saw French paced rider, Contenent,
traverse 46m. 1595 yd. inside 60min., and thus wipe out
world's champion (Michael’s) best for same term, achieved
a few months back, by 250yds. Latest advices are that
Michael purposed having another cut, and vowed he’d do
the 50 ere present season ends.
A last week’s Melbourne advt.: —
TRACING Clubs, being unable protect backers
JA dishonesty, welching, etc. All desirous engage
“Prize-Fighting Contingent” compel payment
Wagers, communicate “ Honesty,” Post Offipe.
The Canada cycle and motor company received
a cable on Saturday advising the departure of the world’s
champion Major Taylor, who is to ride at the Cycling
Carnival to be held in January. The Major adds another
to the long list ot Massey Harris riders.*
* * * *
The disqualification of Don Walker is a hard
knock on the head to the nascent cycling boom. It was
crookedness of crack riders that damned the sport in the
eyes of the public a year or so back ; now the cycle-
meeting promoters, who were depending almost altogether
on the Vic. flyer to awaken enthusiasm in coming events
with the imported Major Taylor, will have a tough job to
make the public “ bite.”
• , • »
A case heard at Carlton (Melb.) Court last
week offered a solemn warning to bike-race punters.
Prosecutor, a clerk, charged a “ cash fielder ” with steal-
ing 155., inasmuch as accused had laid him 15s. to 2s. 6d.
against a winner at the Exhibition bicycle sports, and
didn’t meet the obligation. The “cash fielder” pleaded
innocence of larceny, on the ground that he had refunded
the backer’s 2s. 6d. and given an acknowledgment that
the 15s. was owing—for an indefinite period. The Bench
dismissed the case, remarking that bike-race bookmakers
ought not to be permitted to bet at the Exhibition-oval.
* » * »
The stage having worked the religious dodge so
successfully, the prof, cyclist now pastes his posters on
the churches. Nigger Major Taylor, the bicycle sprinter
whose visit to Australia is being extensively boomed, is
advertised as a consistent respecter of the Dord’s Day
who will not tolerate Sabbath racing.
• * * •
Entries for Austral wheel meeting (initiated in
Melbourne, Saturday, before 12,000 spectators) topped all
totals since ’99. Unlike previous meetings, there was
absolutely no open betting on the ground, and Mo didn’t
want to do extra much beforehand —he had painful
recollections of last year. Don Walker gathered in £95
during the afternoon, spite of going under in two and
three mile events of Commonwealth Stakes ; but after
his appropriation of the five miles, stewards investigated
his riding in the three miles final just before, wherein
he finished last, with the result that they disqualified
him for a month. This means he won’t figure in the
Austral—a fact that brings much joy to the Chosen, for
Walker was favorite. Explanation is that Don got
“ pocketed ” through no fault of his own. Intervention
of the Deague’s appeal board is possible, but hardly
probable.
* » * *
Mr. H. B. James’ 460£ miles on a motor bike in
the natural day of 24 hours, from Melbourne to Hamilton
via Geelong, Oamperdown, and Caramut, and back to 3
miles on Melbourne side of Dara, last week, is a world’s
record of its kind. The heavy drawback of incessant
severe vibration through both engine and road has scared
riders of the petrol two-wheelers from tackling the task ;
it calls for much grit. Stoppages consumed 4h. 12mins.,
and actual riding 19h. 40m. —at an average pace of 23|m.
an hour throughout. One section of 8 miles was traversed
in 15mins., and another of 82m. in 3h. sm. The run from
Melbourne to Hamilton (204 m.) was done in better time
than the mail-train makes.
* * * *
H. B. James, of the Dunlop Tyre Co., has just
ridden 460 J miles over Victorian country roads, on a
motor bicycle, in 24 hours inclusive of all stoppages and
delays. The tyres used were Dunlop moter, and they
needed no attention during the trip.*
* • * •
Twenty-five-year-old Bill, the second hope of
the Heckenbergs, met “ Bill Smith ” at Sydney National
Sporting Club, Monday night. Heckenberg stood over
6ft. and scaled 14st. Smith, almost as tall, looked about
ljst. lighter. Bill Smith used to be known as Oliver
Williams, the lepper, skipping-rope dancer, &c., known
in the backblox as “ the Bounding Bushman.” His party
offered twos and threes freely, spite of the fact that
against Maori Ruenalf, Heckenberg showed much the
better. Heckenberg was remindful of Goddard, but has a
left lead and quick right cross that Goddard knew nothing
of. From the first the scrap was savage, and midway
through the first round Smith floored his man with a heavy
bump, and the Diverpool giant crashed down under the
ropes w'ith his head on his arm like a model for the Dying
Gladiator. People were preparing to leave, it seemed
such a thorough knock-out. But at 10 he was on his feet
again, assumed the aggressive, and with a right cross
knocked Smith in a huddled heap. In the second round
he w'ent through Smith like fire through dry grass, and
spread-eagled him four times in quick succession. Then
Smith lay still, and his side skied the sponge in despair.
• » * *
Judging by Tim Hegarty’s fight against Paddy
King, at Sydney Gaiety A.C., Monday, ’tis no wonder he
was licked so often in ’Murka. All the skill and pug.
power claimed by Hegarty’s friends is apparently mythi-
cal. He crouches too low, brings himself down inches,
hasn’t got a good solid punch any time, and often
couldn’t get away from stumpy-stat.ired King’s right,
despite that it threatened seconds before launching out.
Hegarty notched several lefts and a few right hand body
punches. King operated mainly on ribs, and with
plenty of force. Tim tried frequently—almost always—to
get the right home, but it was either well-stopped
•or went round neck or shoulder as King came in. A
straight jab early in the tussle marked Paddy’s right
eye and another on the same spot later added to the
trouble. Bar this there was no best in it, and the battle
looked either man’s till the fifth round, when one on the
jaw worked up King’s “ Irish ” and while they were close
together Paddy threw Tim—whether accidentally or
otherwise deponent knoweth not —but Hegarty was
thrown, and hard too, which caused referee “ Snowy ”
Sturgeon to declare the man on the floor the winner.
Most of the crowded house hooted but all the same the
verdict was right. For satisfaction’s sake the same pair
should “get to it” again, though ’tis more than likely
champion lightweight Bob Turner will be Hegarty’s next
vis-a-vis. On the whole the thing was tame and there
was no championship form on either side at any stage.
* • * *
“Old Timer”: Considering that he put ’em up for
thefirsttimeagainstSmith lastweek, this scribe likes wood-
chopper Bill Heckenberg’s prospects among Australian
heavies. Though somewhat muscle-bound, punches from
Heckenberg need only get home for t’other chap to know
he has struck something. With good tutoring—say from
past-master D. Foley—the newcomer ought to do well.
That he is game is sure, for 19 out of 20 would have
staved down after that steam-hammer blow in the first
round. Heckenberg is matched with Booth, the Banana-
land heavyweight, whose operations have mostly been
confined to tent work at country shows and race meets,
when he opposed all comers, undertaking to knock them
out within a given time. Those who know Booth best
(boxers principally) assert that he’ll surely win ; but it 13
to be borne in tuind that he has been a long time away
from the game, also, like jockies with horses, boxers are
poor tipsters of fight winners. It would certainly pay in
the long run to always bet against their views.
» • * *
First note of a possible sculling boom was
struck, Saturday, when Harry Pearce, of Double Bay,
and Newcastle Dick Tressidder were matched in Sydnev to
row March next. Chris Neilson will train Tressidder,
while returning world’s premier Towns may interest
himself on Pearce’s behalf. Tressidder has for long had
his mind set on a match with home-coming Towns, and
waited years for him ; he is built on the lines of old Bill
Beach—big, heavily set, and strong as a lion, scaling
12.12—something near Beach’s racing weight when fit.
Dike the ex-world’s top-notaher, too, Tressidder wants a
lot of training, and can stand a draught horse’s share of
it. Pearce is asonof “Footy” Pearce—above the average
in Sydney sculling boom times, but never a champion.
Last good rowing match in Australia was six years ago,
when Towns squelched Nielson on the Hunter. If Tres-
sidder downs Pearce, which the writer tips as likely,
he’ll come at champion Towns.
* • • *
Vic. 4-oared championship rowed, Saturday,
over Dower Yarra 2'.m. course, went to Albert Park crew,
which led all the trip, and finished half-a-dozen lengths
to the good from Ballarat (only other competing boat) in
13.471, the fastest recorded for the race. This was the
15th struggle for same honor, and eight of the best oars-
men Victoria (the home of the game) owns sat in the two
boats. In the race’s history there are five successes down
to the “ Mercs.,” four to Yarra, three to Albert Park, and
two to Wendouree.
» * * *
Swimming supremacy (300 yards) of N.S.W.,
contested at Bronte (Sydney), Saturday, went, as most
people expected, to Dick Cavill, who wasn’t at any time
pressed, and finished with a gap of 16yds. between him-
self and the next man, Healy, in 3min. 45sec. —4 l-ssec.
outside the Australasian best, and 10 l-ssec. worse than
the world’s record, both of which are Cavill’s. Dittle
better than three weeks have elapsed since D.O.’s home-
coming from England, hence he could hardly be expected
to show extra well; besides, there was no need to do
anything better. Another month will surely see him near
his top. Other Australian champions (Read and Dane)
recently in England, are aboard the incoming Medic.
V** • *
One Vic. papor spedking of 13-year-old pigeon-
slaughterer Hector Fraser (“Parvo”) gives his best feat
as 18 out of 19 ; that’s wrong, at Melbourne G.C. shoot
he once bagged a sequence of 37.


ICE! ICE! ICE!
The hot, stifling Summer days are approaching.
Have a Refrigerator, and keep Ice. It is a solid comfort, and doesn’t cost much.
Our Ice is manufactured from Distilled Water. ABSOLUTELY PURE; CLEAR and
as HARD AS CRYSTAL.
We despatch it freight paid to ANY RAILWAY STATION IN THE STATE, packed
in specially constructed cases. Waste during transit is very slight. Write for a quotation,
and full catalogue of our products.
Deliveries regular by special carts in Sydney and Suburbs.
THE N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., Ltd., SYDNEY.
HERE TALK.
Open
Saturday
Afternoon.
After all, when you clear the ground of all the humbug about this or that bike, you must admit
that we all indulge in too much talk; and so it’s a bit refreshing to stand dumb and let our
bikes do the talking.
Hassey=Harris Bicycles
SPEAK FOR THEHSELVES, and
make a little inquiry into its pedigree,
clever patter of ad. writers.
actions are louder than words.’’ When you buy a bike,
A few records, a few championships, are worth all the
Get a little sense, and buy a MASSEY.
CANADA CYCLE & fIOTOR CO., Ltd.,
Branches in Every State. 357 GEORGE ST.» SYDNEY.
MOST USEFUL CHRISTMAS PRESENTS
Jewellers & Opticians
9to King ST, Sydney.
POBT FREE
: I'■ m
Hi
H
Best Silver-Plated Trinket or Hair-Pin Box,
5/-, Post Free.
Best Silver-Plate Soap Box, 13/S; plain, 12 /6
Best Silver-Plated Hair-rtn Box, 10/6
Best
Silver
Plate*
ism&tn
rUmmri
Best Silver-Plated Jewel or Hair-Pin
Box, 5/-, Post Free.
SPECIAL. NOTICE.
Limit of space only permits us to
illustrate a few lines from the
many hundreds we have in stock.
So kindly send for our latest illus-
trated sheets of Xmas Novelties.
Best Silver-Plated Stud Box, 4/6,
Post Freb.
Hundreds of other Novelties
Send for our Illustrated Sheets.
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER. ....
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
BUY A
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel .
Hammerless Gun
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept n stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company,
Head Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, TJ.S.A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 ios. to £is
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free
McLEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
“A Fool and his Money are soon parted/'
An aphorism which, as applied to Bicycles, is worthy of
special note. There is no royal road to quality. It has to
be paid for, the world over. You may try and hoodwink the public with cheap and nasty rubbish in the shape
of Bicycles, but the world is growing wiser, and the simplest folk require full value. Wisdom points to ... .
RED BIRD BICYCLES
as the epitome of excellence. RED BIRDS do not
rest their qualifications on the “ say-so” of salesmen.
Their reputation has been established by merit, and
this is why they are chosen by such judges as Don Walker and Bill Martin.
Branches in every State. GOOLD BICYCLE CO.j 64 Kitlg-Staj City*
SHARPSHOOTINg
For Sport and War.
ħ
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK I
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett. ;
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W.W. CRcENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative).
SOAPS dubbed Shaving
are rarely
Shaving Soaps.
In a Class by Themselves
The World’s Standard Shaving Soaps
Williams’ Barber’s Bar
and
Williams’ Shaving Stick
‘‘BARBER’S BAR”
While the natural Ally
Of the Deft Artist
And his Trusty Blade
Is also the Ideal Soap
For Home ITse
Fits your Birthday Mug
Once tried, never changed
“Won’t Dry on the Face.”
Send a Penny Stamp and we will post you' Williams’
Changing Face Puzzle. Can you explain it ?
J. B. WILLIAMS CO., Glastonbury, Conn., US A •
and at 232 Olarence-st., Sydney. * ' ’
The Arch-Fiend Journalist.
The most noticeable feature in the slander action
against Trenwith, M.P., in Melbourne last week,
was the wholesale manner in which the functions
of a journalist were misunderstood by all con-
cerned. This arose partly from the ignorance of
Judge and Bar, partly from the endeavor of
various pressmen mixed up in the case to preserve
the tradition that they belong to a specially noble
and elevating, if underpaid, profession. It resulted
finally in Judge Hodges making some painfully
silly remarks on the subject when directing the
jury. The defence, he said, had urged that jour-
nalists—
were men who wrote the opinions which they were
ordered to write for the money they put in their pockets.
If that were true, journalists would be too honorably
described as the vilest creatures that encumbered the
earth, because they would be not only encumbering the
earth, but they would be poisoning every bit of real,
genuine, honest, mental growth in this world .... men
who were devoting the best talents that God had given
them, and that had placed man above the brutes, to
advocating by day and night causes they did not believe
in, and inducing them to adopt courses by false repre-
sentations, were fitting themselves for a companionship
with the arch-fiend, who was described as a deceiver from
the beginning and the father of lies.
All this is absurd judicial flapdoodle, and every
brain-worker who lets himself out for hire knows
it. It is the same in most professions : the lawyer
pleads as he is paid to plead; the clergyman earns
his living by a nice regard for the peculiarities of
his congregation; the soldier fights for causes he
doesn’t believe in; the politician speaks for
measures which he thinks will be popular even if
he doesn’t consider them advisable. The working
journalist is in exactly the same box. It has become
the tradition, however, for pressmen to talk in
vague terms of the great public services they are
rendering, in a more or less obscure fashion. The
paid journalist, if he were candid, would admit
cheerfully that he writes things that he doesn’t
believe in. If that were not the case, the news-
paper staffs throughout Australia would have to
be quadrupled in order to be tolerably sure of
having men at hand who could see eye-to-eye with
their employers on every topic. It is a huge
absurdity to pretend that the two or three leader-
writers on any particular paper_ (to only one of
whom the local political writing is entrusted, as a
rule) are indissolubly wedded to all the opinions
they express. Sydney has one notable example of
a slashing Freetrade writer who left his work at one
time to stand as a Protectionist for Parliament, and
Melbourne is said to contain a Foreign-trader who
does excellent work as an advocate of a high tariff.
And so long as they content themselves with
writing these opinions as the opinions of an em-
ployer, an editor, or an organisation, that is
journalism, and has nothing to do with the
“arch-fiend” Judge Hodges speaks about so
familiarly. There are several men on the
Australian press who honestly proclaim that they
have no opinions whatever of their own. They
are the ideal journalists, if they can write, but
Judge Hodges would exclude them from employ-
ment on any paper, unless, indeed, they went to
the S.M. Herald and wrote “neutralities.”
Our late visitor, violinist Max, Schliiter, has arrived in
’Frisco, U.S.A., and by now the Chanson Triste, which
Max plays like an angel, has been heard by the Friscoites.
At Honolulu, Franz Wilczek, who, whilst in Australia,
kept his Strad so obstinately in its case, joined the
Sonoma, and the two artists played duets and solos at the
ship’s concerts. Some sea-voyages have their compensa-
tions. During his stay at Honolulu, Mr. Wilczek had a
splendid concert, which was attended by the ex-Queen
and other dusky royalties, as well as all the principal
local citizens of the nation that bounced Lily-o’-Killarney’s
diadem away from her.
Patents for Inventions. —Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillin-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world..
South Australia’s stock census shows that
that State has now 1900 camels.
Sydney Municipal Council elections re-
sulted satisfactorily. Most of the blatherskites
and humbugs were rejected; the aldermen
with good records were in all cases returned, and
the “ new blood ” is generally of high quality.
Dr. Camac Wilkinson, who headed the poll for
Belmore, is a distinct gain to the Council —a man
of great ability, high scientific accomplishments,
and much public spirit. Mayor Hughes was,
happily, returned in spite of his Lord title. The
rejection of Isaiah Cohen, Eden George, George
Perry, David Eealy, and a few others of the same
sort, is a matter on which the citizens are to be
congratulated.
The Veterinarian.
THE DIFFERENT PREPARATIONS OF
"SALVITIS”
HORSES, CATTLE, SHEEP,
PICS, &0. ARE WORTH TRYING!
SALVITIS Index of Diseases, Free.
Remedies suggested in this Column promptly supplied
by Wholesale Agents for N.S.W. —
E. RICH & COMPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
“SALYITIS”
Ensures abundance
of EGGS and
Healthy Poultry.
USED BY LEADING BREEDERS— I/-, 5/-, 10/-, 20/-
SALVITIS ROUP PILLS, 16 per box -
Wholesale Agents for N.S.W.—
E. RICH & COMPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
0
111
188
~>anir~~jtSir* i'i" P' 1 ru'iWA
"CIOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
-C ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,”
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. W. ELLIS.
TftE NEW
VULCANISED!
DUNLPP
TYRE
linn
<\ J-n
i
This Tyre
is vulcanised by our patent process under
a hydraulic pressure of 1200 lbs. to the
square inch, rendering parUng of rubber
and fabric an impossibility —thus saving
fully 50 per cent, of the ordinary tyre troubles.
ASK YOUR AGENT
to show you a sample,
IT WILL. DO THE REST.
None Genuine unless the Cover is
embossed with the word “ Vulcanised’
and this
TRADE
MARK.
15
PERFECT
160 Clarence Btreet, Sydney;
Brisbane and Christchurch, N.Z.


CL c/fLOWvrLC! denruvruL
-ffo&L ”&jahd£e/*
r
ixr/fcd'
z/r?
\
£
?
<2
\
£7!
5^
fK
■
0
/oc
I-1
The Cigarette with the “narrow lap.”
There is less paper used in making Guinea Golds than other brands—compare for yourself and see. You get the full Tobacco Aroma with them; that’s why
they are so pojouhtr. m m clrd> a 3 pMked with q.q. w 8 wil l so „d you (Free) a PRETTY PHOTO. ALBUM made' especially to hold the Photos.
OGDEN’S, LIMITED, 45 York-street, Sydney.
Tom Mann bearded some of the Melbourne
clergy in their lair at St. Paul’s Cathedral chapter
house, the other day. The wicked agitator had
undertaken to talk awhile on the subject of the
Church’s attitude towards labor politics, and
whilst stating the things which all parsons know,
but many of them prefer to ignore, lie mentioned
incidentally that the shareholders in the great
sweating business of Bryant and May, Ltd., were
largely clergymen. Whereat the Bev. Bust (fine de-
scriptive name) called the lecturer a liar, and shortly
afterwards withdrew to discover his mistake. The
foolishness of Bev. Bust served to get a half col.
report of Tom Mann’s lecture in next morning s
papers, also it warmed him into eloquence.. The
parsons sat abashed more or less (no parson is ever
quite abashed) whilst Mann told thern that the
church deliberately defended an industrial system
which prevented society being established, on a
moral basis. “If,” said he, “an honest, simple
statement of the facts were made by the church
concerning the production of wealth and those
who were entitled to such wealth, and those
who got wealth without working in any
way, it would do more good than had
been accomplished in this generation.” Possibly
Mr. Mann’s plain, hard talk to the gentle
shepherds will have an “ awakening ” effect here
and there. The fact that only one of them called
Mann a liar, and was not morally supported by
the rest of the gathering, may be taken as a nega-
tive indication of repentance all round. In fact,
the least promising Kerristian present was not a
parson, but an old lady. She Wanted to. know
where the landlord would be if nobody paid any
rent, to which Tom Mann replied that the land-
lord in that case might need to work for a living.
The elderly lady was too agitated to put any
more questions after that.
The Bulletin Recitek has been taken by
Bill and Jim straight to their warm hearts, and
already its contents have gladdened thousands of
audiences all over Australia. Most of the best
and most famous Bulletin recitation-pieces are
included in this fine collection—price ss. post-
free from Bulletin office.
NAVE YOU
A NAD LEO
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies alt
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the abkles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there majr be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured,
t end at once for
ALBERT'S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
Ac. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green lal el on lach box. (Regd. copyright).
NERVOUSNESS.
h
If you want to feel young again, to have your sluggish circu-
lation stimulated, your nerves made strong, and your body filled
with renewed health, you can get this and more, too, by wearing
DR. AUSTIN’S ELECTRIC BELT.
It cu es Nervous Disorders, Weak Back, Lumbago, Rheumatism
Liver, Kidney and Bowel Troubles, “ Come-and-Go ” Pains, and
that Tired Feeling after every other treatment has failed.
My Belt gives a soothing, warm, strengthening and delightful
current of Electricity into the afflicted nerves, muscles and system
while you sleep. It stops the pain, and life again becomes worth
living.
It never blisters or burns the body, because it is constructed to
give Electricity in a proper way.
PAY WHEN CURED.
Any honest person who will secure me can have my Belt and
pay when cured. Failure to cure costs you nothing. I take the
risk of cure. f
SPECIAL NOTICE.—If you have a Belt which has failed, or
burns and blisters, I will allow you for it in exchange for mine.
CALL TO-DAY and test my Belt free. No charge for consultation.
FREE BOOK -If you cannot call, write for my beautifully-illustrated Medical Book and
Letters from Cured Patients, sent, sealed, FREE. Write to-day.
Ths Dr. J. M. Austin Electric Go.,
39 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
rtf?
sM
WEAK, NERVOUS MEN, WHY SUFFER
w
tttt’at ho anrl nermanentlv cured bv taking Herr Rassmussen’s ALFALINB Vitality fills which have cured so many
H fhmX£d“fferers from DEBILITY, POOR MEMORY, WEAK SPINE, DESPONDENCY, and all which robs Man rood of that wideh
is direst to it—Vital Strength, Herr Rassrnnssen will Eg*® **£ k 5
toTll patrons of his remedies
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live. Tieatment by Post a Speciality.
So don’t despair, bub
Pamphlet sent Free.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d., posted.
Blood and Skin Diseases.
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder, and Blood
Impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured by
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS will cure them. Boxes, 6s; Courses, 235. 6d.
LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALINE LIVER and KIDNEY PILLS, Boxes Is.
uic rheumatic PILLS are World-famed, and his PILE POWDERS never ■fail
mam hnv o^/tL
suffering from Wasting Diseases, Pale, Lifeless, and otherwise affected, should at once communicate with HERR
RAS3MUSSEN. His lifelong experience is at their service, and his
HERR RASSMUSSEN
will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak-
ness, Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma-
tism, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. He will send his Book Free.
All correspondence will be held
confidential.
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE = 150 Bourke St,
The ALFALINE REMEDIES can only beobtained from . . .
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office—
547 George St., Sydney,
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW-
ADELAIDE: IB Pulteney St.
N Z. '• 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
W.A., PERTH: 481 Hay St.
KALttOORLIE: 111 Hannan St.
FREMANTLE: 117 High St-
BOULDER CITY; Pi £3 se St.


Always use at Bedtime
to prevent Mosquito bites,
CALVERTS
2SO per cont.
Carbolic Soap.
A delightful soap for toilet purposes.
Most useful to prevent or cure insect bites
or stings, itch, piles, ringworm, etc.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
#
. *
V '
%
WUttG
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
ĥ
jßrovonts Decay, Savm
Extnultioii, Sleepless Ni£ltt
X’i'eventedr
Nenralgic Head-aches & all Nerve
Pains removed by HUNTER'S
NERVINE. 01 all Stores, i
NERVINE
“As a specific for Tooth-adlffi iit fires no equal. I h&oa
used it successfully for years.'*—tthtrif. W. Wilson. IVLD.
The BEST FAMILY MEDIGIN&
KAYE’S WORSDEIL’S
Arc a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney 'GnniplaiiUf^'jfefc
Of all Stores.
Hidden Ms oh
Disease Revealed
ħ
This “ GRAND
BOOK” which is
sent Absolutely
FREE.
“Words of Wisdom,“a
wonderful book written
for the sole purpose of re-
vealing to sufferers the
wonderful system of Hom-
oeopathic treatment which
has cured so many cases
that were thought to be
hopeless and incurable.
The book is written in a
plain and concise manner,
telling you exactly how
and where you can regain
perfect health. In fact, it
gives you the key to the
grandest knowledge known
It reveals wonderful se-
crets and makes the impossibilities of yesterday realities of to-
day. No matter what your disease or how many have termed
it hopeless or incurable, you w 11 indeed find it A MESSAIai!*
OP HOPE to you, for if you follow its dictates, you will, as
thousands of others have, be entirely cured of your ailments.
Remember this book costs you absolutely nothing and you will
prize i t highly. Simply sit down, write your name and address,
send it to the
IRVING HOMOEOPATHIC COY.,
c/r Hunter &. Bligh Sts., Sydney, N.S.W.
also stating your ailments, and they will send their opinion and
advice as well as this grand book without cost.
30 Days’ Trial.
h
We grant every purchaser
of our
KLKCTRIG
RE LI'S and
A WJjIA NC ES
a trial of 30 days before-
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), {riving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
03 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
RUPTURE
CURED without
operation or pain,
•nttix
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., ENG.,
Con Russell & Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
1
If
m
TheGANZ
Electric Apparatus
are built right.
(e tus give you some
evidence of their
superiority.
Ganz Direct Current Air-Propeller. SOLE AGENTS :
The Austral Qtis Engineering (Jo., [td., South fflelb.
Practical and
Economical
The Oldsmobile is the most
practical and economical gaso-
line runabout you can buy.
It can be delivered here for
a very reasonable price. It ,
sells in America for $650.00 (£130), and the ocean freight is not large. <
No experience is required to run it—the construction is simple — <
no intricate machinery, no boiler to burn out. j
(
a Oldsmobile
is almost noiseless, attains a speed of 25 miles an hour—goes 30
miles on one gallon of gasoline —climbs steep hills, runs over any
passable road—is always ready for instant use—economical to operate—
starts at ease from the seat—s,ooo are now in daily use.
Write us at once and we will send you a handsome descriptive book,
and make you a price delivered at your nearest port for quick delivery.
Agents wanted in unoccupied foreign territory.
Olds Motor Works 9 Detroit , Mich., U. S. A.
ĥ
THE OWL CUT-RATE DRUG CO.,
MANUFACTURING AND
DISPENSING CHEMISTS.
We have special remedies for the correct and effective treatment of Nerve and Blood Diseases Testimonials
from all sources proving their efficacy. Write for Printed Price Lists ; they will be
NOTICE. —Our ELECTRIC BELT, price 10s., usual price £l, is infallible in the WEAKNESS an
STOMACH DISORDERS. Electricity re-invigorates the vital nerve sections, ,^ e| nniL pro^sse
of digestion and nutr tion. It elfects a sure cure. DR. CLARKSON S VIOOKAIUK,
VITALISING NERVE, BRAIN, MUSCLE, and BLOOD STIMULANT. We still offer AlOO for any
case we cannot cure. Price, 7s.’6d. per bottle. Three bottles, £l. Post Free to all parts of Australia.
PYRAMID PILE CURE.—A certain remedy. FITS —EPILEP. — A remedy for Epilepsy in ais orms.
FINOHAM’S FACE BLEACH.—CIears the skin from Spots, Redness, Roughness, Freckles, Tan, Sunburn,
&c. Invaluable for use in the country.
FINCHAM’S INFALLIBLE WORM POWDERS.—Specially suitable for children. A certain cure for worms.
Note the Address : THE OWL CUT-RATE DRUG CO.,
c. P. FINCH AM, Chemist. 227 ELIZABETH STREET, Opp. Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
She JVfost Refreshing 2>rink in jTusiraiict.
Lime-Fruit Juice
ai>6 Corbials . . .
(TRADE MARX)
The LANCET says:-»•‘
counsel the public to drlnK
Id me-Fruit Julce whenever and
wherever tney list. It Is a far
more wholesome drink than
any form of Alcohol-
“M.ntserrat” Lime-fruit Juice, either with water or aerated water, is
delightful thirst quencher.
Sole Consignees -EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON.
EYANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
Agents:— Elliott Bros., Ltd., J. Connell & Co., Sydney ; D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value-a racket of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried in vest
po -ket and blown out to life-size (causes roars of
laughter), Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket, Book of
Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin and Card
Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard Pish (gives
the definition of your character), The Mafeking Grub (or
nerve-strengthener), and, last of all, that side-splitting
Look and Laugh Glass, Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. Cd.
Box 3, P. 0., Hay market.
11. L. HUTCHINSON,
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George -street, SYDNEY.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL -CO MFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST—STJFPBB.
BLOWFLIES.^-'
The OMLY destroyer—The “Buzz
Window Trap, with Faulding’
Insect Powder. Al’ stores.
CAPILLA
HAIR
TONIC
SICK HADE WELL
WEAK MADE STROHS,
Marvellous Elixir of Life Discovered
by Famous Doctor-Scientist That
Cures Every Known Ailment.
Wonderful Cures are Effected That
Seem Like Miracles Performed—
The Secret of Long Life of
Olden Times Revived.
The Remedy is Free to All Who Send
Name and Address.
After years of patient study, tod delving Into
tiie dusty records of the past, as well as follow ing
do tern experiments in the realms of medical
science, Dr. James W. Kidd, 18(1 First National
tf-vnk - building, Fort Wayne, Ind., U. S. A.,
DR. JAMES WILLIAM KIDD.
makes the startling announcement that he
has surely discovered the elixir of life. That
he is able vrith the aid of a mysterious com-
pound, known only to him self, produced as a
result of the years he has spent in searching
for this precious life-giving boon, to euro any
and every disease that is kn own to the human
body. There is no doubt of the doctor’s earnest-
ness in making his claim and the remark-
aide cures that he is daily effecting seems to
bear him out very strongly. His theory which
he advances is one of reason and based on
sound experience in a medical practice of many
years. It costs nothing to try his remarkable
“Elixir of Life,” as he calls it, for he sends
it free, to anyone who is a sufferer, in sufficient
quantities to convince of its ability to cure, so
there is absolutely no risk to run. Some of
the cures cited are very remarkable, and but
for re'iable witnesses would hardly be credited.
The lame have thrown away crutches and
walked about after two or three trials of the
remedy. The sick, given up by home doctors,
have been restored to their families and friends
in perfect health. Rheumatism, neuralgia,
stomach, heart, liver, kidney, blood and skin
diseases and bladder troubles disappear aa
by m igic. Headaches, backaches, nervousness,
fevers, consumpt'on, coughs, colds, asthma,
catarrh, bronchitis and all affections of the
throat, lungs or any vital organs are easily
overcome in a space of timo that is simply
marvellous. , .
Partial paralysis, locomotor ataxia, dropsy,
gout, scrofula a id piles are quickly and per-
manently removed. It purifies the entire
system, bio >d and tissues, restores normal
nerve power, circulation and a state of perfect
health is produced at once. To the doctor all
systems are alike and equally affected by this
great “Elixir of Life.” Send for the remedy
to day, it is free to every sufferer. State what
you want to be cured of and the sure remedy
for it will be sent you free by return mail.
Remember, a letter to America requires 2Jd.
postage. Write your name very plain, and be
sure to give your full address, so there can be
no mistake in delivery.
Reader, why not tie aide to use the
most mysterious ami powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feat*
tliat are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain; win re’uctant affection,
gratify jour rmbitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in hook f rin a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, -which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful aud
artistic engravings, and is tho most elaborate
and expensive thing of the xind
ever publ shed. For a short
time I wi 1 send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps to cover
postage. Order to-day and l aru
to I!ypnotize. It is a c ance of
a life-time. Address —
h
ĥ
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Wonder of the Age
ALL CHEMISTS
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE. WORSTCOUGHSJ


Biliousness
KNOCKED OUT BY
Chamberlain’s
Stomach and
Liver Tablets
Price, 1/6. Just what you need.
Biliousness is a condition characterised by
a disturbance of the digestive organs. The
stomach is debilitated, the liver torpid, the
bowels constipated. There is a loathing of
food, pains in the bowels, dizziness, coated
tongue and vomitings first of the undigested
or partially digested food and then of bile.
Take three Chamberlain’s Stomach and
Liver Tablets to begin with and then
one tablet each following day for three or
four days until the bowels become regular.
If one tablet is not enough to cause a free
movement of the bowels, take two; or if one
acts too freely, take only one every other
day. Chamberlain’s Stomach and Liver
Tablets should be taken immediately after
supper. Eat sparingly and of easily digested
food, such as boiled rice and milk toast.
Drink no coffee.
NOTE.—If not able to obtain Chamber-
lain's Stomach and Liver Tablets locally,
a package will be sent, post paid, upon re-
ceipt of 1/6, or six packets for 8/-, by
addressing Chamberlain Medicine Co., 64
Elizabeth Street Sydney. 120
Mrs. CLAUDE F. SCHIEVHOEZ, Ogden, lowa, May 20
iqqq writes *
“I suffered greatly from ASTHMA: but J; a .V ne ®
Expectorant gave me quick and permanent relier. l
cannot praise it too highly.’ *
Selina Sangal was reprieved at a meeting
of the Vic. Cabinet on Monday night. With tho
pose of a weak-strong man, Premier Irvine said
that the reason for the reprieve was not the one
that The Bulletin has urged, but some other
reason, which he is not going to disclose. But so
long as Mr. Irvine is reasonable, no one will
trouble as to what mental processes he goe3
through to arrive at his conclusions. As a matter
of fact, no Australian Ministry could very well
dare to hang anybody (not guilty of deliberate
murder for the sake of gain—say poisoning for
insurance-money) who has been kept under sen-
tence for any considerable length of time. I hey
didn’t even dare to hang Bertrand in the old days,
after his doom had been long suspended by an
appeal to the Privy Council. Were a murderer
to be always kept in gaol three.months under sen-
tence he would very rarely indeed be hanged.
(And yet any sentence which won’t stand the test
of a few weeks’ calm consideration should surely
be esteemed a poor one.) Hanging is a thing that
a civilised community has to do in hot blood, or
not at all.
Amusements.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Lessee Mr. Win. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT’S Superior Dramatic Achievement,
THE WHITE HEATHER.
POPULAR PRICES—3s,, 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
SOLE LESSEE .. .. Mr. JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
Manager Mr. Frank Weathersby.
THE LAUGHING SEASON.
The Sparkling Musical Comedy,
A TRIP TO CHICAGO.
SJOHN F. |l
HERIDaH
as
JOHANNA MURPHY.
' The Humorous Irish Mother-in-Law.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY at 2.15.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES—3s.,2s., Is. 6d., & Is.
LOOK OUT FOR THE GRAND XMAS
PANTOMIME.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2,
LAST 2 NIGHTS of
IF I WERE KXZNTQ*.
Mr. CUYLER HASTINGS as FRANCOIS VILLON.
Other Characters by Mr. Williamson’s
SPECIALLY ORGANISED DRAMATIC COMPANY.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Prices as Usual.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage
h
And by
Special Appointment
Mrs* William Green and Miss Green
Professors of Ballroom DanoEng, Deportment, Graceful
Carriage, Etiquette and Calisthenio Exercises.
The Latest Society Skirt Dances. Glasses arranged for at
private residences. Colleges and Convents attended.
Classes in all suburbs. Prospectus—
“ Ellerslie,” fOO IMlcholson-st., Fitzroy.
amusements.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards.
Willie SCHENCK BROTHERS Charlie
THE HARVEY BOYS.
THE GREAT HARBECKS, THE NAWNS, WILTON
BROS., MISS JENNIE OPIE, ELSIE M'LAOHLAN,
CLARENCE SISTERS, FLORRIE GALLIMORE, WILL
WOOD, ERNEST SULLIVAN, EILEEN BOYD.
ICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.m.
PAUL CINQUEVALLI.
WALLACE BROWNLOW.
THE MONTROSE TROUPE.
A. C. SPRY. FRED. POPLAR. KITTY WACEH
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
pITZGE RALD BROS.’
HUGE CIRCUS & MENAGERIE,
IN THEIR’ OWN PERMANENT BUILDING,
JUST ACROSS PRINCE’S BRIDGE, ST. KILDA RD., MELB.
Crowded Nightly in Every Portion ol the Yast
Amphitheatre.
GRAND NEW PROGRAMME.
THE PLUNGING ANIMALS—Horses, Donkeys, Jockeys,
Elephants, Stags, &c., into an Enormous River containing
thousands of tons of Water 22ft. deep.
THE MARVEL— HERR PAG EL, wrestles with
and Lifts a Full-Grown Lion.
THE OYCLE WHIZZ, SERVING THE COLORS, and NEW
LONDON COMPANY.
PRICES—Is., 35., 25., and One Shilling. Children half,
price to all parts (except the pit).
FRANK JONES, Representative.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING,
The Highly-Successful New Romantic Drama,
A ROYAL RIVAL,
First Production in Australia.
USUAL PRICES. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hendy. Treas., Julius Grant.
WILLIAM ANDERSON'S Famous Dramatic Organisation
in the Latest London Success,
jA. LONDON -A.dLLA.J3.
Direct from the Princess Theatre, London.
p r ; cea — 3g ( 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan's.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
Mr. J. 0. Williamson’s ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5, LAST NIGHT of
THE MIKADO.
SAT., DEO. 6, Planquette's Melodious and Romantic
Opera, PAUL JONES, with a new and Entertaining Cast.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. William F. Hawtrey.
Business Manager .. Leonard Davis.
EVERY EVENING, THE HAWTREY COMEDY CO. in
Mrs. Frances Burnett’s Famous Comedy, .
LITTLE LORD FAUNTLEROY.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. Matinee every Wednesday.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’ and The Grand.
R. BENTLEY YOUNG, Representative.
TO PLAY YOUR PIANO
The Price of the Pianola is £65 on moderate
monthly payments, or £6O for prompt cash.
ĥ
The Pianola is an instrument which will aid you in playing your piano.
It does the hard, technical work, leaving the player to infuse his own
personality into the music.
The performer does not play the Pianola. With the Pianola’s assistance
he plays the piano, though he may not know one note from another.
By a slight movement of a lever, the nimble little finger® of the instrument
that are pressing the piano keys are made to vary their attack,
A touch on another lever, and they hesitate, stop, and bound forward
again in their marvellous play. |
No mechanism is apparent, and the player, forgetting t'he Pianola, for-
getting the keys and complicated action of the piano, is absorbed in the
wonderful effects he is producing from the instrument before him.
A descriptive catalogue mailed free if you will write us. When writing
ask for Catalogue “B.”
Sole Agents for Australasia:—
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.
MELBOURNE: 185-187 COLLINS-ST. SYMEY: 323 GEORGE-ST.
Edjudina (W.A.) is in the doldrums over the
projected abandonment by "Boulder” Hamilton of his
option on the Wallaby. Opinions regarding the possi-
bilities of the district are very divergent but, whatever
happens ultimately, it is now quite certain that it is not
to have a meteoric career—up like a rocket and down
like a stick. There is no chance of foreign capital find-
ing its way to the spot till the horny-handed son of toil
proves that he has found more than a block of scrub land.
South Kalgurli (W.A.), in exploiting the
ground with a diamond drill, has located two fairly
promising finds. Too much importance need not be
attached to these discoveries, as a drill core is so small
that it may prove misleading. This has happened in one
or two notable instances. Most of the gold now being won
comes from the 300 ft. level, and the mine needs very
careful handling to maintain the yield. Shareholders
are grumbling greatly at receiving no return on their
money, and are likely to grumble much more before they
get anything really substantial. Up to date £376,000
has been spent. Of this £188,500 was provided by the
shareholders, and £187,500 from the 54,000 tons treated.
Despite this enormous expenditure the ground is, ad-
mittedly, not half prospected, even at a comparatively
shallow depth, though the area is only 13 acres.
• , • * •
Victory United, Cuddingwarra (W.A.). has
been a great deal before the public of late, and scrip has
fluctuated erratically. 00. owns a 10-head mill and
cyanide plant, and, like most Adelaide-bossed shows, its
returns, like its market movements, are most uncertain.
On its capital of 80,000 shares three divs of 6d. each have
been paid—one in 1898, and two in 1899, the last in June
of that year. Since then calls have been necessary. The
upper levels are depleted, but recently the reef was cut
at 530 ft. A few crushings may eventuate, and, by
Stretching a few points, a div. may be declared. But
punters should be very careful, or they may be left to
nurse the baby.
• * * *
It transpires that the purchaser of the Lake
View Extended lease (W.A.), sold in London, by auction,
in Sept., was the Lake View South Co. The peculiarity
of the deal is the fact that both go’s were floated by
Horatio Bottomley, and were oflicered by the same indi-
viduals. The Extended co. had originally £35,000 work-
ing capital, to which was added £18,750 on reconstruc-
tion in 1899, so that in all £53,750 was expended on
plant, machinery, and development, and yet the lot was
knocked down for £3400. Is it any wonder, after this
transaction, that W.A. shares stink in the nostrils of the
British public ?
* * * *
Perseverance (W.A.) has at last been thrown
open to the public. So far as one can judge from a trip
underground there is absolutely nothing to conceal, and
why secrecy was so long enforced is a mystery. The
mine has been opened up in a masterly manner, and
there is practically nothing to be seen at which the most
captious critic could cavil. As some of the stopes are 30
to 40ft. wide it is easy to imagine how the large output
is maintained. The surface plat t is a picture, and it is
kept in the pink of condition, quite a contrast to most of
the plants on the field. Manager Ralph Nicholls, who
only returned to the mine two months ago, is leaving
immediately for London, but as his understudy, Flynn,
really holds the reins, Nicholls’ absence will not be
seriously felt. No stoping has been done below the 500 ft.
level, and, as there are three lodes to operate on,
including Tetley’s, the amount of ore in reserve i 3
enormous.
* • * *
The Queen Margaret (W.A.), after sinking the
shaft to 400 ft. on its new property, the S. Gippsland,
at Vosperton, started a crosscut at 370 ft. The reef was
penetrated 2ft., but no results have been published, and
the water has been allowed to rise to prevent spies giving
the show away. A crosscut is now being put in at the
280 ft. level. The co. is controlled by Melbourne people,
and it is generally anticipated that, when in the humor'
they will make things hum. It is stated that the 50,000
tons of tailings on the Bulong property were sold for
£2OOO, or 9|d. a ton. The purchaser must be hugging
himself over the deal.
• * * *
Mr. Sticht, general manager of Mt. Lyell, has
demonstrated that pyritic smelting is something more
than a theory. For over a fortnight he has run the nest
of furnaces in No. 2 plant without using any coke what-
ever, the sulphur in the ore being utilised as fuel. There
was no hitch whatever, in fact the furnaces seemed to
run faster than they did previously, and Mr. Sticht is
quite satisfied that this can be looked upon as “ a per-
manent and valuable feature in the reduction process.”
This is the largest scale on which the pyritic process,
pure and simple, has been successful, and the economy
of it is likely to have an important bearing on
the financial result of Lyell operat ons. Various
changes made by Mr. Sticht last half-year showed a
reduction in the cost of production of over £3 per ton of
copper, and with the pyritic process at work still further
reduction will be shoivn. It is stated that the hot-air
blast has been discarded, Mr. Sticht having found it more
effective to apply a considerably increased cold-air blast.
This is a technical feature of much importance to metal-
lurgists, and doubtless, when he has complete data, Mr.
Sticht will publish details. This achievement adds
another feather to the cap of Mr. Sticht, who has rightly
earned the distinction of being the most accomplished—
as he is the least assuming—general mine manager and
metallurgist who ever came to Australia.
* j * * *
London shareholders in North Lyell-have shown
their disapproval of the past management by rejecting
the old board of directors, which included some men
of high professional attainments in the metallurgical
world. The challenge thrown out by ex-Manager Trent
has evidently been accepted, as the new Board has com-
missioned Mr. Rich, former superintendent of the Rio
Tinto mine, Spain, to make an exhaustive report on the
• mine and methods of treatment of ore. It is reported
that the co. has recently made some discoveries of high-
grade ore in the deeper levels. If this be so and a
vigorous policy of working, with a suitable system of
treatment, be adopted, there is still hope that this mag-
nificent mine will be saved from ignominious collapse.
■» * * »
As predicted, the fly in the Briseis ointment
was that the overburden was not being removed to the
extent calculated upon in the original estimates, and the
directors have given instructions for increased activity in
this direction. The whole of the available water forces
are to be turned on to the overburden, in the hope, as
Mr. Fraser, the new' manager, anticipates, that it will all
be shifted in 12 months.
* • * *
Brilliant Extended (C.T.) makes its first appear-
ance in the div. list with a substantial distribution of
£6250. A welcome relief to shareholders, who have spent
over £50,000 in developing the mine. The gold was won
from a depth of over 2100 ft., and it is understood that
there is a long succession of divs. in sight.
* » * •
Charters Towers will make a div. record this
year, eclipsing any previous year by about £60,000. The
total will reach close on £400,000, and be £300,000 in
excess of calls. The improvement on last year will be
over £150,000.
* * • *
Deputy Commissioner of Taxes Searcy (S.A. \
rules that if a man endorses a cheque drawn for ’ a
larger amount than £2 he is legally bound to put a Id.
- stamp on the document under the provisions of the new
Stamp Act. Many Adelaide business firms, which once
took a receipt for each employee’s wages, now dispense
with that formality in order to save their subordinat es
the weekly impost. An office boy at 10s. a week, being-
paid monthly, has to stamp the voucher for his pay.
* * * *
M anager Sutherland’s run to Europe to consult
his Golden Horseshoe (W.A.) board is mainly with a view
to re-starting the Fremantle smelting works.
* * * *
MONEY MADE SELLING THE "PEOPLE’S”
WINDMILL.
I made £5O last month selling Windmills. I sell to
almoet every farmer. I build the mills myself. The
material costs only £2 10s. It is as good as a £3O mill.
To the farmer who prefers building his own mill, I sell the
plans and specifications. It is the easiest money I ever
f made. Any intelligent man can do as well. If you need
money, write me. I will send plans and specifications,
prepaid, and all necessary information for success on
receipt of Five Shillings. JEAN F. CASEY, Drawer 65,
St. Louis, Mo., U.S.A.*
At Poverty Point.
Melba, it is said, at first objected strenuously to
appearing in opera, and said she wasn’t going to make
herself tired on what was practically a holiday trip. She
must be glad now, however, that Musgrove persuaded
her, as Melba in opera is a far greater artist than the
same person on the concert platform, and her Marguerite
was necessary to show Australia what solid foundation
there was for her reputation.
It is a noble thing to be in the burnt-cork and tambo
line of business in Australia. Variety potentate Harry
Rickards set the auctioneers to work, the other day, to
sell off some “ surplus furniture and appointments,” as he
was moving and couldn’t be bothered taking it all with
him. Rome c4the mere surplus—as per catalogue :
Valuable pWloforte, by Collard.
Superb Fleurich pianoforte.
Upright grand pianoforte in ebonised case.
Upright pianoforte in rosewood case.
Upright pianoforte in walnut case.
Very handsome and beautifully appointed perch
brougham.
Magnificent landau, by Windover.
Family brougham, by Windover.
Brougham, by Morgan, Bond-street, London.
Very elegant and light-running Victoria, by Hooker,
built in the very latest New York fashion.
Mr. Rickards’ mail phaeton, built to order by Wind-
over, London.
Very handsome low dog cart (generally known as a
Lyon cart).
The spare motor-cars, and organs, and billiard-tables
were probably sold by the gross under the heading of
etc., etc., as they receive no special mention in the cata-
logue.
Strong man Pagel laughs at all who say that his lion
will one day make a meal of him. The big German’s
confidence in his strength is, perhaps, the secret of his
success with the brute. Pagel claims that he is absolute
master of Leo by reason of the hold he gets on him—a
grip on one paw and an iron elbow against the lion’s
throat, leaving him powerless. He explains that the lion,
young as he is, has tried “ funny business” already, only
to back down speedily and apologise in abject terms.
This seems true, for the lion is anything but docile towards
strangers. On the day of Pagel’s private exhibition, half
the medical men in Melbourne were scared out of their
senses. At each arrival in the tent it jumped with roars,
striking the side of the cage four feet at once, glaring
hard at the discomfited surgeons. Also the lion, during
a performance last week, had to be severely clubbed by
an attendant for expres ing a desire to eat the mastiff in
full view of the audience.
People differ strangely in their estimates of the age of
Dolores. The unkind guesses remind one of the late
Richard Stewart’s eoi"'plaint: “It seems that my
daughter Nellie was born some years before I first met
her mother.” Dolores made her debut in London in ’B9,
and was engaged for a Scandinavian tour the same year.
Her mother, the original Trebelli (Gillebert spelt back-
wards with the G omitted) was only 21 when she made
her first appearance in grand opera at Madrid in 1859 ;
so it goes without saying that daughter Antoinette
(now Antonia), an artist from her childhood, was a mere
girl when she started public life.
The “ star ” pupils of Mrs. Green’s academy are prepar-
ing special “ turns ” for her forthcoming fancy-dress ball
at Melbourne Town Hall. Miss Florrie Green will do the
shadow dance from “ Dinorah ” ; also, Miss Duckett and
Miss Irene Dillon, both of them high-sr hool dancers, are
expected to rise to the occasion on their educated toes.
Miss Dillon, by the way, has already had the offer of an
engagement from J. O Williamson, who takes a natural
interest in encouraging amateur students of the stage
arts. Mrs. Green has his permission to use any of the
dance music in his operas for teaching purposes. So the
young amateur gets more or less the training of a pro-
fessional, and one may say of the comic opera ballet that,
like charity, it begins at home.
One musical artist now in Australia came with a well-
developed delusion that the star with whom he was to
appear was madly in love with him. It required not
merely friendly remonstrance, but also managerial
strategy to keep him from too pronounced an exhibition
of his devotion. At one time it was the rule of an
operatic tenor to regard the prima donna as one of his
“ perquisites,” but those good times are past.
Charles Arnold writes from near London to his old
friend and manager, L. J. Lohr : “ I have bought a place
with 10 rooms, billiard room, and J-acre of fruit and
flowers. I don’t expect to play again for some time —not
until I get another ‘ Jones,’ and they don’t grow on every
bush. Had a very bad time with gout since arriving in
New York and England—so bad that if I had had my
company I would have been forced to close. This is the
result of suppressing many previous attacks without
proper treatment. Am under the care of a specialist,
who hopes to get the acid out of my system by
means of electric treatment, and once rid of that I can
more or less guard against gout in the future. I suppose
you heard of the Nance O’Neil fiasco. The co. received
but half a week’s salary for three weeks work. They had
jumped from S’Africa to Cairo, then jumped to London and
rested for six months, and wound up by getting J week’s
salary in 7 months. Sharp (Sharp w r as Arnold’s original
old professor in ‘ Jones’) has left the stage and is study-
ing law, and Thomas is playing his old part in 1 Charley’s
Aunt.’ Mrs. Thomas is nursing a fat little boy, now two
months old. Miss Bensusan has the promise of an
engagement in New York.”
McKee Rankin, who has recently had so disastrous
an experience with his Nance O’Neil season at London
Adelphi, was the first American manager to take an
American co. to England. That was in ’BO, when he pro-
duced Joaquin Miller’s “Danites” at Sadler’s Wells.
“To preserve youth drink gin” is the advice of one
Australian actress, who is certainly juvenile enough in
figure.


TWO TENORS SING PRAISES
OF THE NEW AND WONDERFUL ELECTRO-MEDICAL SYSTEM.
When men are weak and practically disabled in life, they should avoid disaster which may end in Death. New Vigor, new Life, new
Strength, and unlimited Physical Power can be given by adopting for a short period the Electro-Medical Treatment or the judicious
uses of Electricity and Medicine. People are cured daily by this system who were otherwise classed as “ INCURABLE.”
REMARKS.
WE have from time to time demonstrated, as leading physiologists and pathologists in the scientific world,
the fact that the permanent healing of grievous health-destroying diseases lies in the possession of a perfect know-
ledge of the causation and phenomena concerning them, and the accurate methods of treating them. Any practi-
tioner can prescribe for a complaint and treat it with that professional care embodied in set formula. But every
practitioner cannot heal or cure a disease. Honestly they endeavour, and unsuccessfully fail. Everywhere men and women try their doctors, receiving
little benefit. Millions of people suffer from chronic nerve and vital functional disorders, and never become cured of them, because they do not appeal to
the right sources. What the average medical man CANNOT CURE WITH HIS SET FORMULAS and obsolete forms of treatment, the
SPECIALIST, with his new ideas and modes of treatment, assisted by special knowledge, can. This is proven
BY THOUSANDS OF UNIMPEACHABLE TESTIMONIALS
received by THE SPECIALISTS of the FREEMAN and WALLACE INSTITUTE, in cases undertaken (and which they guarantee to cure) of nerve
and muscular disorders, stomach affections, etc.
Their new methods of nerve and physical strength restoration, by the employment of Electro-Therapeutic agents, is a new system, qualified by
singular success. Patients OCCUPYING THE HIGHEST POSITIONS in the world of Art and Letters, Sport and Commerce, gladly testify to great
cures. Electricity is Life, if judiciously applied by means of an ELECTRIC “ INVIGORATOR ” with reconstructive remedies, and such diseases as
HYSTERIA, INSOMNIA, PALPITATION, SCIATICA, EPILEPSY, BRAIN-FAG, EXHAUSTED VITAL FUNCTIONS, RHEUMATISM,
LUMBAGO, ABDOMINAL WEAKNESS, PILES, ST. VITUS’ DANCE, or CHRONIC or FUNCTIONAL NERVE DISORDERS, are surely
and permanently cured.
A DISTINGUISHED
PATRON.
MR. PHILIP NEWBURY, the
famous English robust tenor, so
intimately known and so popu-
larly appreciated by all Australian lovers
of exquisitely superb vocalisation, was so
benefited by a course of the Electro-
Medical treatment that in a letter to the
SPECIALISTS he says :
“A few weeks’ course of your
Electro-Medical Treatment, (luring
which, I wore one of your famous
Nerve - Restoring Electric * IN-
V / GO R. A TOliS,’ has benefited me
greatly. Eoj • years T suffered from
Uric Acid in the litood, with Rheu-
matic tendencies, but, thanks to
your Electric * INVIGORATOII,’
I am noiv completely cured.
Fours faithfully,
Graceful as this eulogy is, it is none
the less sincere, expressed by one whose
attainments are generally beloved
throughout Australasia. It verifies the
fact that in the cure of nerve diseases,
electricity judiciously applied by a skilled
SPECIALIST is unequalled as an im-
mediate remedy.
ħ
MR. PHILIP NEWBURY, the Distinguished English Tenor:
AN EXQUISITE
EULOGY.
o
CIIGNOR CARLO DANI, the sweet
Yy Italian operatic tenor, the vocal star
of the ROYAL ITALIAN
OPERA COMPANY, recently suffered
from inertia of the nerve system, arc!
great lassitude. For a few weeks he
wore one of the Electric “ INVIGOR-
ATORS ” manufactured for the SPECI-
ALISTS. In a graceful tribute written
to their skill he says :
have much pleasure in in-
form inn you, that owing to the (jreat
lassitude I have experienced here,
<lue, no doubt, to sudden climatic
c/iah yes,: l have been induced to try
one of your Electric ‘ lnviyorators,’
front which I have obtained great
benefit to my nervous and muscular
systems.
Yours cordially,
D
Such a testimony from such an eminent
source proves the value and efficacy of
the only superior Electric “ Invigorator ”
sold in the States, the full particulars of
which are below appended. Be careful
when purchasing an Electric “BELT”
that you secure one certified by local
electricians.
If you suffer from Insomnia, Functional Heart Trouble, Epilepsy, Hysteria, Weakness, Kidney Dis=
order, Aching Back, Rheumatism, Uric Acid in Blood, Sciatica or Neuralgia, an Electric “ Invigorator,”
with reconstructive remedies, will soon put you right. Electricity goes right to the Spot. Eor many weak-
nesses peculiar to women the “ INVIGORATOR ” is an infallible cure.
All attestants may be interviewed. The SPECIALISTS’ treatment is sure and effective. Improvement is rapid and certain.
You heed not fear but that you WILL RECOVER if you try a course of Electro-Medication. It acts at once on the nervous centres, animating the nerves, re-strengthening the muscular
system, equalising the circulation, improving the blood-stream. It clears the brain, strengthens and regulates the beating of the heart, and .makes a man or woman healthy and strong, AS
NATURE INTENDED THEM TO BE. A man is no longer feeble under this treatment; he REGAINS ALL HIS LOST STRENGTH, and finds no PHYSICAL TRIAL that he cannot
conquer. It is the finest medium in the world to physical peace and domestic harmony.
PRICES.
The Prices of these wonderful curative “IN VIGOR ATORS ” are as follow:
Copper Plate, £1 ; Silver Plate, £1 10s; Solid Silver, £3 ; Solid Cold, £lO (2oz. 18ct. Cold).
The Specialists hold Certificates of Efficacy unpossessed by others, and give private tests to anyone who cares to call. Two leading Sydney electricians
assert they are “electrically perfect, and their currents are continuous as used for medical purposes.”
These “ INVIGORATORS ” are the only Electric “ Belts” sold in Australia which possess true non-conducting vulcanite insulation, without which no
Electric “ Belt can give a continuous electric current useful for medical purposes. Any electrician will verify this fact.
The Specialists’ Fees : Advice & Medicine, ONE POUND only.
CREDENTIALS.
NINE Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration of the Physician-in-
Chief by the Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia,
England and America, open for public inspection at the Institute. Late Homoeopathic
Hospital, Melbourne, and British Imperial Army Medical Staff.
Sir DOMINIC CORRIGAN, Bart,, Physician to the late Queen, speaking of the
Physician-in-Chief, saysl entertain a high opinion of Dr. Wallace in regard to his
professional qualifications. ”
“ CLINICAL EXPERIENCES."
CONTAINING- 550 pages of medical literature, 150 full and half-page medical illustra-
tions, fully explains, in the chapter devoted to Electricity, the general laws governing
the application of electricity to the human frame. An exhaustive exposition of the systems
employed in the doctrine of Electro-Medication is given, showing the benefits to be derived
from a judicious use of the Electric Bath, Battery, or Belt. The uses of these are
explained. This valuable medical work is posted free to any address on receipt
of ONE SHILLING IN STAMPS.
FREEMAN * WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL^—bI
and SURGICAL INSTITUTE
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E
ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
L.F.P.S., E., L.M.
. . . Meclicinc s packed Free from Observation and sent to all parts of Australia.
Pnysician-in-Cnief. Letters treated with Professional Secrecy and promptly replied to.


Piggotfc, the English fraud who claims to
be Christ, was challenged by a clergyman “to
debate the question.” The answer came from a
secretary: “ Any communication addressed to
‘the Rev. W. H. Smyth Piggot’ will be dis-
regarded, as that person has ceased to be. A
request addressed to ‘ the Messiah ’ will receive
attention.” The sec. added, getting in one for
himself, that “he was not secretary to Mr.
Piggot, but was simply as John the beloved
disciple was to Jesus Christ.” Which distinctly
“ lays over ” even our old friend Dowie.
S.A. Parliament, which has just ended
one of the maddest sessions on record, had, in its
last moments, one flash of intelligence, to the
disgust of the Government, which wanted to g°
on its course of insane riot to the end. Among
Ministers’ wild proposals was one to carry a rail-
way into the Pinnaroo sand-desert, on the pretext
that it would open up rich agricultural land.
Whereupon a cautious Scot set going the idea,
finally adopted, of putting the country to the hard,
practical test of cultivating three typical patches
of 200 acres each for three years, for the guidance
of Parliament.
c.
BRA! 3 iUER &
CIRCULAR-POINTED
CO. S (Ltd.)
PENS
Seven Prize Medals Awarded*
Neither scratch nor
spurt, the points
bein» rounded by a
new process.
Attention is also
drawn to their new
“CRADUATED
SERIES OF
PENS.”
h
ĥ
ħ
h
Each
Ask your Storekeepar fo <*..
■i made w ,our I-
.saariad Sample Box of V
flexibility and Points.
arias. Works: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND
Hearne
TUB FAMOUS REMEDY FO:R
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. tlrn it* effects * most com-
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those whoaresubject to C< A “ beconie chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
hoL Should ho without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose i, general!, sufficient.
end a Complete Cure is certain. „ EW » -p» TO OF COUGHS !
perrem THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l aw writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
mv case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
V e*miißiiter Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
HELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY lIEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir. —I suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
A’ith cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
It. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modev arre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
Small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cii e for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vio.
"Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
m jour Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very had coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always" keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to mv mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER."
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND i» QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
"Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus —as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M MORTIMER.
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows :—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
anS walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me tins
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort- ,
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it, is quite worth
while sending for it such a loqg distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night's rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence m her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors
prescriptions and patent medicines having’ been tried ,
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully, CROCKETT>
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Pive Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I am more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for live years, and now Ido not feel safe to be withou
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hparne. ... .
“ Dear Sir, Your medicine has cured me of broncnitu
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
vears, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing.was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my ease every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes “After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite'got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states: —“I
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
BRANCH DEPOT
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, „ Geelong, Victoria.
— Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtatndble Loca y .
SMELTINC & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney).
1901, Limited.
V —'<r — —V —■*’ w *'
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
„ . . . ~, Cvanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etc.
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. 2 S —l
For all Information regarding Hates, apply to the Manager, Head Opeice, Hapto;
or. A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
‘“Benger’S Food*
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tat on of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
For Infants , Invalids , and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive, and ligestible.
Banker’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
t> find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Benger s
Food’ everywhere.”
“If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


6t) (6t) at) ®|
ĥ
A.XJ TR- -A-XjX J^-TST
GENERAL ELECTRIC
INCANDESCENT LAMPS.
THE EDISON LAMP
absolutely
THE BESTS
Annual Sales, 18,000,000.
After Competitive Tests, 63,750 were purchased by the Melb. City :.»neii.
LONG LIFE, HIGH EFFICIENCY.
Large Stock always on hand.
AUSTRALIAN
general ELECTRIC CO.,
Equitable Buildings,
Melbourne & Sydney
Sets, &c., also in Stock.
Motors, Dynamos, Steam Dynamo
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
©
,©
©'
©
©
©
L@
G
G
G
sf&i
Jam
UNDER THE ROYAL PATRONAGE OF
H.M. THE QUEEN OF GREECE.
H.R.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE.
MR H. THE PUKE OF SPARTA.
ħ
H.R.H. THE DUCHESS OF SPARTA.
H.R.H. PRBNCESS HOHENLOHE.
H.R.H. PRINCE GEORGE OF GREECE.
(High Commissioner of Crete, &c., Crc.,
EDWARDS’
99
XK£EZ2f£2SSE
h
FOR
THE
Photo d specially for the "Harleue JO., by Langfter. Bond St.. W.
Haymarket Theatre, London.
Miss JULIA NEILSON
writes —
" I am at present trying your ‘ Harlent' for my
hair, and I find it one of the best Hair Tonics and
Restorers I have ever used, and I have tried many.
Will you kindly send me two more bottles.
THE GREAT HAIR
PRODUCER and* RESTORER.
THE FINEST DRESSIHC SPECIALLY PREPARED AMD
DELICATELY PERFUMED.
A LUXURY AMD A NECESSITY TO EVERYMODERM TOILET
” Produces Luxuriant Hair. Prevent its Falling Off and Turn' -.
Harlene nuuui-ca —__ , ,
Orev. Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the Beard and Moustac._g.
The World Renowned Remedy for Baldness. For Preserving, S rengthenmg,
and Rendering the Hair Beautifully Soft, for Removing Scurf Dandruff,
; / a lso for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour.
h.r.h. princess
Crown Prince’s Palace, Athens.
MARIE OF GREECE
writes “ Messrs. Edwards’ Preparation, ‘Harlene’ for the Hair, has gi'®n entire
satisfaction. H.R.H. wishes six more bottles of ‘ Harlene' sent as soon as pcssib e.
Kitegyhaza, County Bikis, Hungary.
COUNTESS DENIS ALMASY
writes—'“ Please forward me three more bottles of ‘Harlene,’ as I am particularly satisfied
with the two bottles sent me to Switzerland, and have been using it ever since.
Full Description and Directions for use in Twenty Languages supplied with every
Bottle. 1/-, 2/6, and (three times 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle, from Druggists, &c.,
all over the World.
I
&
riioto'd specially lor the “ Harlene Co., hy Langfier, Bond St., W.
Garrick Theatre , London.
Miss VIOLET VANBRUGH
wi ites —
“l am very pleased to testify to the excellent
qualities 0/ • Harlene ,' it is most retreshmg and
invigorating and I have found it very Stimulating
to the Growth 01 mv Hair.
“ P.S.—I hope late will never take me to any
quarter of the globe where l should be unable
to procure ‘ Harlene.'" ~,
,ED WARDS’
HARE.ENE” Co., 95 & 9®, High Holbom, London, W.C


H 2
ĥ
CHRiSTMAS is coming, and the interchange of Gifts amongst friends
is more thought of each year* We are ready with the biggest
and best stock of suitable things we have ever had* Buying as
we do for our eight stores—Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Auck-
land, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin—means lower prices to us and you
SHOPPING BY MAIL.—~
Whenever yon want things and cannot come to our Store, write.
All the advantages of selecting from new, stylish, dependable
goods are as fully yours when ordering by mail as if you came in
person ; there is never any risk about what you buy from us. Be
friendly —tell us what you want —if to substitute or not, and if you
send too much money we will return the change. Popular goods at
popular prices—selling at close margins of profit—one price to all —
makes this a safe place to trade with, either by mail or in person.
HANDSOME
ħ
DIAMOND AND FINE GEM
We illustrate here a very handsome style of Brooch. It is a strong Knife Edge Bar
of 15c. Gold, set with 5 Exquisite Diamonds of Exceptional Brilliancy ?
and is reasonably priced £32 10s. We have the same style ’
Brooch, With 2 Diamonds and 3 Emeralds, £2], £22 10s
2 Diamonds and 3 Bubies, £IG 10s, £22 10s, 2 Dia-
monds and 3 Sapphires, £3O.
if
No. F 8262.
15c. Gold Necklet,
shade smaller than
engraving, set with 61
fine Pearls, price £l2 10s.
A smaller size, with 31
i earls, £3.
m
Pi
BROOCHES.
The New Moon Brooch, 15c. Gold, and set with 15
One with 21 larger Diamonds for £2l.
Flashing Diamonds, £8 10s.
$4
No. F 5903.
• This is a 15c. Gold
and first quality Pearl
Necklet, with Fine Dia-
mond in centre, G 9 Pearls,
price £l2 10s.
Diamond
and Qem
Necklaces
for Evening
Wear.
The low prices are not the chiefest fascination about these lovely Necklaces. The exquisite designs and fine nmli't-e of • , , , .. . , _
to buy even before they know the prices. They are the choicest and most beautiful things we have had, and vet the Stone* ImThe 116 ? used should tempt Ladies
that it. is impossible, on account of the rise in value of stones, to duplicate them at anything approaching the prices now mioted e ° n )OL1 « so advantageously
15c. Gold Spray Necklet, set
with 98 fine quality Pearls,
£l6 10s.
An exquisitely designed Necklet
with 7 Leaf Pendants, the whole
set with 225 bright Diamonds, £5O
Pearl and Diamond Necklet, with
trace pattarp Chain back, set
with 27 Whole Pearls and 74
Diamonds, £5O.
Lovely Festoon Necklace, set
with 26 fine color Turquoises
and 117 Diamonds, £75.
Fine Necklace, with 31 Pendant
Pieces, set with 31 Exquisite
Opals and 211 Diamonds, £l2O.
Magnificent Turquoise and Dia-
mond Necklet in Exquisite
Style, set 37 Turquoises and 163
Diamonds, £135.
Pearl and Diamond Necklace,
with 11 Pendant Pieces, the
whole set with 29 fine Whole
Pearls, 10 very larfre Pearls and
163 fine Diamonds, £135.
A fine Whole Pearl Necklet,
with Diamond Cluster Snap, 65
Whole Pearls, 9 fine Diamonds,
£175.
Exquisite Diamond Single Stone
Necklace, 59 fine quality Bril-
liant Cut Diamonds, each set in
a separate Collet Setting, £250.
The most beautiful piece imagin-
able ; can be used as Necklace
or Tiara. 15 Lovely whole Pearls
and 296 Finest'Quality Dia-
monds. We could not match it
under £550. Our price is £385.
THE BUTTERFLY BROOCH.
Fine Gold, set 24 Diamonds, 8 Rubies, 3
Sapphires, 5 Pearls, £7 10s ; 44 Diamonds, 4
Rubies, 2 Sapphires, 6 Pearls, £lllos ;53 Dia-
monds, 10 Rubies, 9 Sapphires, 4 Pearls, £2l.
No. F5Bll. —Fine Pearls and Ruby 15c. Gold Bracelet.
A Choice Piece of Jewellery. £9 10s.
No. E 7551.— fin. Gold and Fine Amethyst
Brooch, £1 ss.
A Lovely Lot of others at 27s 6d and 30S.
A Lifetime’s Wear in each.
No. F4s46.—Fine Quality Pearl and 15c. Gold Spray
Brooch, £9 10s.
Fine Pearl and Opal or Turquoise Spray Brooches at £7 10s,
£8 10s, and £lO 10s. Exquisitely Beautiful.
SILVER-PLATED JEWEL CASES.
6 inches long, 21s ; 7£ inches, 25s ; 8 inches, but extra deep, £1 16s.
Square Styles, 4 inches, 25s ; oval, 5 inches, 30s.
THE POPULAR NELLIE STEWART BRACELETS.
Substantial in Make, Perfect in Finish.
Joints and Catches almost Invisible, so Beautifully are they made.
In 9c. Gold, 50s, 635, 70s, 80s, 87s 6d, 955; in 15c., 955, £5, £5 10s, £6,
£7. Each Bracelet is good value for price quoted. Sketches of size
can be sent if desired.
This Lovely 15c.
Gold and fine Opal
Set Heart Shape
Pendant, size
smaller than
illustration,
only 60s.
SB
Mi*
VILLE Gardens
S.W
No. F 5905- Solid Silver Card Case, for Gentleman,
Strong Make, 16s 6d. Better ones at 18s 6d.
Gold PfV CHARMS.—Kangaroo or Emu, 7s 6d ; Heart, 3s 6d
and 5s 6d ; Bells, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 8s (id ; Beans, 3s 6d and 4s 6d.
The 3s 6J line has gilt stems.
/'Li
r.J I:
S))l
No. F3326.—501id Silver Saw-pierced and Engraved Belt Clasp, drawn actual
size, 10s 6d ; better ones, 16s 6d, 18s 6d, 22s 6d, and 255.
m
This is an exceedingly pretty Round Cake Basket, Beauti-
fully embossed and well plated with Sterling Silver.
Price 355.
Fine French Carriage or Travelling Clocks,
with Fire Gilt Cases. style, 30s ;
Elaborate ones for 50s, 57s 6d; 60s.
Each in a case.
No. F4.BJ. — L J .at tj .n.lid Silver Match
Box, ljjin. high, 7s 6d ; a nice En-
graved one, ljin. high, 7s Cd.
Others at 10s 6d, 12s 6d and 15s 6d.
No. FS94B.—Combination Purse and
Card Case, with Strap, Solid Silver
Heavy Mounts and Lock. In fine
Grey Lizard or Brown or Green
Crocodile, £1 ss.
iwSs
'B£m
.
No. B 3957.—Handsome Lizard or Crocodile
Skin Purse, with Silver Lock and Corners
16s 6d.
No. I.—This is a very neat design, 15c. Gold
Three-Bar and Trefoil Brooch, set 3 Opals
£1 12s 6d.
Collar Stud.
9c., 7s 6d
15c., 12s 6d
Silver, Is.
Made all in one piece.
Front Stud.
4s 6d
6s 6d
Silver, Is.
No solder used.
No. E7157.- r ßeal Crocodile
Skin, Lady’s Card Case, with
heavy Silver Mounts, 21s.
Prevent the Tie from rising up over the Collar.
9c. Gold 6s 6d pair.
9c. Gold (heavy make) 12s 6d pair.
9c. Gold, set Pearl, Opal or Turquoise, 14s 6d pair.
9c. Gold, set Sapphire or Ruby .. 16s 6d pair.
Silver Is 6d pair.
© ’ ’"TJ
No. C 1043. —Heavy Make 15c. Gold Bar Brooch,
set with a Fiery Opal, £2 ss.
h
ĥ


m
m
i \
V'
■ :p
■■;. - ■'
PD
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard
High-Glass Corsets
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
- NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark ” on band inside, as above.
A Tempting Offer for Xmas.
The Rosewarne Packing Go.,
liUMUTIEJID,
Being very desirous of introducing their ,
OA-UKTED DK ihICACIB &
to every household in the Commonwealth have
arranged through Messrs.
F. LASSETTER & COMPANY, LTD.,
to put up Sample Cases of their Poultry, etc., which svill be sold at
WHOLESALE PRICES.
The Company is prepared to re3y ©n the quality of
their pack bringing them husi.iesj in the
near future as will compensate them fcr the
larje expense incurred in the distribution of
the g-eods.
Price for 2 dozen cases containing 12 Tins of Assorted Poultry,
consisting of Chicken, Turkey, Duck and Goose —Roast, in
Aspic, Curried and Stuffed —and 12 tins Sausages and Pies
and Pates, consisting of Beef, Cambridge, Pork, Irish arid
Oxford Sausages, Chicken and Ham Pater, Game Paties and
Pies, Veal and Plain Pates, Yachting Pates and Camp Pies.
Weight, odlbs. gross, delivered at Railway St it ion or Wharf, 2.23.. 6c5.
Price for 4 dozen cases, weight, i libs. gross - - - - (each) 425. Sd.
Send your Order to F. L assets & Do,, Ltd-, early,
befote t’l3 supply rt n 3 cut
The Station-Master, Bay of
Dogs.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I was the last of the 15 railway cadets who had
started in January of the year to learn telegraphy
in the big gallery of the operating room at the
General Telegraph Office. One by one I had seen
them despatched to little wayside country
stations where a dreary station-master, and per-
haps a half-looney, morose porter, made life a hell
upon earth. They would be called in the official
returns “ Railway Officers,” but wheni I had been
a few months at the Bay of Dogs station I learned
they were the most miserable of drudges,
The Bay of Dogs was bad enough, but a country
station, where the sole connection with the express
trains consisted of holding a white flag while said
trains thundered through the station at 30 miles
an hour, and a brutal travelling public threw
orange-peel or decayed fruit at the “ officer,” Was
simple Sheol. For the rest, the duties would
consist of serving out letters, collecting dog-taxes,
sheep-rates, Govt, life-assurance premiums, and
the scraping clean of two sets of points which
gave access to the station sidings.
Bay of Dogs was the first suburban station of
the city of Romahapa ; and there were only two
sidings, and no brutal cockatoos loaded up with
hides and grain and potatoes. I believe in
democracy, but I disbelieve in the cockatoo.
The station was built on piles which rose out of a
corner of the bay, all the solid land being required
for the permanent way, and my first duty every
morning was to let myself down among the slimy
cross-beams and piles, and with a long pole engi-
neer into the oozy current the carcases of three or
four dogs that invariably lodged there during the
night.
The station buildings consisted of a lean-to,
with the office at one end, the ladies’ waiting-
room at the ot er, and the ordinary shelter-shed
between them. We had no goods-shed, as our only
heavy traffic consisted of coal loaded inwards for
the suburban coal-dealers.
The Station-master at the Bay of Dogs was a
grim and terrible personage named Kierney. He
had the finest flow of language on the whole
llurunui-Bluff section. With the exception of
Hooper, the sub-station-master, everyone was
afraid of the grim old man. The only people not
afraid of him were the drivers ; there is nothing
that the railway driver is afraid of, barring a baby
or a woman on the line. Kierney’s hair and
pointed whiskers were grey, his eyes red coals
that glowed out of a face that always reminded
me of a crumpled bank note.
The Bay of Dogs was a place of long hours, for
trains ran 21 out of the 24, and being a block sig-
nalling station, someone had to be on duty all the
time. The morning shift began at 4.45 a.m., and
ended at 1 p.m., when the “ evening man ” came
on, and continued till the block signalled “all
clear.” The cadet, who, for the time being, was
me, started at 8 a.m. and left at 6 p.m., and half
that time was in a state of mental agony and tor-
ture, for, as with all the rest, the very presence of
Kierney filled me with terror.
Hooper, the sub., tried his best t.o make the
worm turn, but the worm was too utterly crushed,
and the cadet at the Bay of Dogs was a wan -
faced, timid boy with a hunted look in his eyes.
Kierney used to make me sit on a high stool with
my back turned to him, and every time he caught
sight of my face through shifting about the office,
he would break out into a torrent of frightful
abuse, which always ended with him hurling me
off the stool, with a blood-curdling yell of “Out
of my sight, you blanky caw-caw ! ” Then I would
vanish outside and shiver in the wintry wind that
blew across the loathsome mud flats till the awful
voice of Kierney would be heard shrieking to
know what the Maoriland Railway Department
paid me for. Still, the old man taught me how
to work the block signals, and he ground the why
and wherefore of every book and form in the
station into my inmost soul, and when I left the
Bay I could balance up the accounts of any
station quicker than many clerks twice my rail-
way age.
* * • *
Kierney was a drunkard. Half the time he was
in a state bordering on delirium tremens, and it
was only his unaccountable intimacy with the
chief traffic clerk at Romahapa that kept him in
his position. But, let him be ever so drunk,
his gait was never affected. He would always
march off duty at 1 p.m. with the stride and gait
of a Guardsman. The sun always seemed to shine
brighter when he went off duty, and the harsh,
unpitying wind that blew across the malodorous
mud-flat seemed less keen and only half as
poisonous when his grey-clad, bent shoulders dis-
appeared through the little garden gate of the
station-house.
All things come to an end, and slowly it began
to dawn upon me that Kierney’s shouts and awful
cursings did me no more real physical harm than
the soft, effeminate lisping of Hooper, the sub. I
still lived; and on the few occasions when
Kierney tried to do me physical violence I easily
dodged him. My terror of him began to fade
rapidly. As it did, the Bay seemed a less hideous
place. In fact, there were times when I almost
loved it. In the mornings, when the long plat-
form glittered with frost, and there was no stench
from the mud-flats because they were covered by
the tide, and away through the canopy of smoke
and haze the big city loomed indistinctly, there
was something about the Bay that appealed to
me. I was beginning to feel my feet, and used to
ogle, in a very mild fashion, the girls who came
from further-out suburbs to attend the Ladies’
College, the gables of which were just visible
through the tree-tops about a quarter-of-a-mile
from the station. ,Then, in the evenings—pro-
viding it was flood-tide, when a little breeze
used to sigh across the water and wave the tiees
that hung over the big bluff around which the
northern line vanished, and bring sounds of music
from great steamers going down the Victoria
Channel, and the lights from the buoys would
flash and gleam, and great bars of carmine burned
dully through the grey and white clouds that
were always piled over the distant peninsula—
then the Bay would look really picturesque.
Still Kierney, though no longer terrible, was a
source of nervous irritation, and I felt, somehow,
that some day, when he was pouring out a torrent
of abuse, I 'should hit him right on the big
wart that stuck out blackly through the grey
whiskers on his chin. That wart got on ray soul.
I was in a state of constant desire to hit it with
both hands. Even Kierney seemed to realise that
the old order was changing. He left off bellowing
at me, and sometimes, when things were slack
and he hadn’t been drinking, he would talk
quietly and ask me the reasons for certain book-
keeping entries and the wherefore of the existence
of the GB4 book itself ; and I began to realise that
I owed the old fiend a debt of gratitude for a lot.
of knowledge of railway accountancy.
• * » *
There was drought in the North, although the
rivers were bankers. The long, hot, burning
summer and autumn had melted the glacieis from
which they sprang, but the rivers of that country
run between giant terraces, sometimes 20011.
below the level of the surrounding plains, and up
on those plains the land was naked for want of
rain. Pastoralists were trucking all sheep and
stock south, where the clover was knee-deep and
the grass like a Persian carpet. The Railway
Department was taxed to its utmost to cope with
the rush. All day and all night the stock trains
thundered past from the north, and all day and all
night the long trains of empty trucks went rolling
back to bring more and more. As soon as one
train cleared the section another was switched on,
the block-bells would call—one, two, one ; there
would be answering bells, and away over the bluffs
and hills would come the weird, unearthly screech
of the “ Bull-Yank ” engines. I seemed to live on
the platform those days, with a white flag in my
hand for our station had no semaphores, and our
block system had no interlocking apparatus, and
was a thing of shreds and patches, and an utter
delusion as a safeguard. The roar and rush ot
those crowding trains through our station was a
moral tonic, and I began to lose the desire to
hit Kierney’s wart. . T
Kierney seemed very shaky that night. I was
about to go off duty when the old man approached
and offered me a packet of “ Welcome ” cigarettes,
and in a low, strange voice, especially for him,
asked me would I mind staying on duty with him
till this infernal rush was over. He said he had a
va»ue fear, a premonition of coming disaster, and
he would take it very kindly if I would stop on
with him. ....
It was so unusual that I could only gasp out that
I would be delighted. 1 got down the monthly
returns, and began to work at them. Kierney
kept popping across to his house, and coming back
with an anxious query as to whether everything
was going right. The long twilight had deepened
into gloom, and the trains rounding the northern
bluff could only be distinguished by the great,
flaring headlights, and the screeching whistles
would blow till the waving of the small white light
told that' the line was clear. The returns did not
get much forrader, for the trains came so fast that
all my time was spent between the two block
instruments and the platform, waving the white
*
There were two engines on the train, and both
their whistles sounded at once. I reached for the
Romahapa block : One-two-one ! Quick as light-
ning came the replv : 41 Line blocked. I rushed
out on to the platform and waved the red light,
and across the glinting waters came the screech of
brakes; and, as the long, heavy train came
roaring down the slope on to the viaduct, I saw
the wheels streaming with sparks. As I rushed
out Kierney rushed in, but I did not notice him
particularly. Again Romahapa block sounded :
“Line clear!” and I darted back to give the
answering signal, and secure right of road for the
big train. Kierney was down on his knees,
groping under the desk. Out again on to the
platform, a wave of the white light, and the
screech of the brakes suddenly ceased and the
rhythm of the sounding rail-joints became regular
and rapid again. She ripped past at 20 miles an
hour; and, as she went thundering through,
Kierney came out on the platform on all fours and
gaped stupidly at the flying train. Suddenly he
sprang to his feet and shouted: “Jack ! Jack!
where are you ? ” Then as suddenly he went
down on all fours again, and darted back into the"
office. He could certainly travel at a respectable
rate on all fours. As another train was signalled
on to the section I saw Kierney groping about,
and his voice was a whine of entreaty but it
made my flesh creep.
“Come on, Jack, there’s a good boy; come to
your poor old father. Come on, you young devil !
I’ll get angry with you if you play this tomfoolery
any longer. Good God !my boy, I thought you
were under that train till I heard you laugh.
Come on, let’s go tmme now, little son ; come—
come on.” Then he waited for an instant, and
burst out savagely : “You young pup, I’ll break
every bone in your body if you don’t come
out.” Then he suddenly recoiled and covered his
face with his hands, and commenced calling
piteously to Jack to “ step"into it —to fill it up.”
The whistle sounded across the bay. I signalled
on to Romahapa, and going outside waved the
white light. When the train was just at the end
of the platform, Kierney rushed out and tried to
snatch the lamp from me, “ Stop her! stop her!
for God’s sake! the child’s hiding under the
platform—he’ll be cut to pieces;” and as I
struggled with him he tried to leap down between
the rails. I gripped him round the waist, while
the lamp flew across the track. The whistle gave
a tremendous screech. Kierney went down on
his back and I on top of him. He tried to roll
over towards the rails, and got one hand on the
edge of the platform. I hung on desperately.
Heavens ! Would that accursed train never pass !
It seemed to be miles long, and my strength was
ebbing, and the old man with his purchase of
a grip of the edge of the platform slowly hauled
me closer and closer, and I was wondering how I
would know when it was time to let go. Suddenly
I saw the red tail-lights, and a glimpse of the
guard in the van making the last entries on his
running-sheet, and as I released my hold the old
man rplled in between the rails.
Fearing he would get under the platform and
be perhaps cut up by the next train, that was even
then waiting to come on to the section, I jumped
down after him. Another struggle, and then I
managed to drag him into the office and secure
him in a chair, and lash him and the furniture
securely to the leg of the big fixed desk. Then I
attended to the signals.
He raved there for a while, and then lapsed
into a kind of troubled sleep. The bells rang on,
train after train went rushing by, and in the
intervals I wrote a report to the Traffic Manager
that the Station-master at Bay of Dogs was mad. I
left it lying there till 1 signalled the t rains through.
Two hours later the grey dawn stole in through
the little win lows, and when I came in, after
passing-the night goods through, the station-
master, awake and in his right mind, had his eye
glued to my maiden report to the Traffic Manager.
He looked up calmly. “ Have I been very
violent, my boy?” I nodded. When I had
finished at the signalling instrument the old man
declared he was all right and begged to be
liberated that he might go home to bed. I cut
the cords, and he staggered weakly to his feet.
“ Wait till the last one goes through, and I’d help
you across,” I said, throwing some coal on to the
tire. It blazed up and threw a warm glow across
the little room. Kierney sank down in his chair
and held his hands out to it. 1 noticed how thin
and wasted and wrinkled they were. All the
vile abuse was forgotten, and I looked at his
bruised face and wasted, wrinkled hands and
began to snivel for pity of him.
He heard the sob, and turned his haggard,
wasted face round to where I stood at the block
instrument. “ Yes, my boy, let what you’ve seen
this night be a warning to you never to play the
fool with woman or child. You can play the
devil with anything else—health, wealth and
reputation—but the female and the kid, deal
gently with them, or they’ll find you out. When
your money has gone, and your health is wrecked,
and even the dogs slither over to the other side of
the street, you can end it—simply tun off the
track.
“I’m a haunted man, my boy, and I’m afraid
to end it. Don’t know what’s waiting for me in-
side the Home Signal. When I was young I got
tired of being always without a cent, and the
sight of other fellows spending money on oysters
and drinks got me down. 1 was married to a
delicate wife with a delicate baby—and 1 never
knew what it was to have a decent pair of boots.
So one day I bolted.
“ Little Jack died from sheer want. I learned
of it years afterwards when I met my wife in' a—a
low wine-bar. She flung it at me across the
glasses, and the crowd of drinkers threw me out
into a world that has never been the same since,
for remorse got hold of me, and ever since I’ve
been haunted.”
' I felt that I must say something. “ How ? Do
you see the ghost of the little boy ?” I asked. He
turned on me with a burst of the old fury.
“No, you blanky caw-caw ! If I saw a ghost
I’d be all right; I’d be satisfied ; I’d know that
Jack still lived in some other state of existence.
But he doesn’t. He’s blotted out, and everywhere
I go I see the empty, gaping vacancy where my
child should be. The sunlight shines round that
black emptiness and never fills it. I never see W
group of children playing or standing but that
empty blackness is there, and I know that Jack is
annihilated, gone, obliterated, nowhere —like the
last signal you sounded on that cursed block —
Gone, Gone-GONE ! ”
And his voice went up to a yell, and when
Hooper rushed in ten minutes later he found me
holding down a hopeless lunatic, while the block
bells called in vain; for the Station-master at
Bay of Dogs was mad.
HERMES.
A candidate for the House of Commons, (
addressing a bucolic meeting, was so vague and
guarded in the expression of his views that one of
his auditors asked him what on earth he was
driving at. “I, sir,” was the reply, “am driving
at the Amelioration of the Illimitable Perspec-
tive.” Which “ lies over ” even Dan O’Connor.


'/ir
■-V • %.* + *i
M
K I I
m
tri? «
BILIOUSNESS is very rife in Australia.. The enervating- climate and
dietary habits directly tend to foster it. This is especially notice-
able during the summer months, and there are few individuals who
at this season do not experience an occas'onal attack of BILIOUSNESS.
The excessive heat of an Australian summer has a debilitating l effect on the liver, causing that
organ to become sluggish in its action, with the result that it fails to regulate the supply of bile in
the system, and Biliousness is the natural outcome. BILE BEANS, a purely vegetable
production, have been especially prepared to counteract those debilitating climatic effects, and hy
stimulating the liver to increased action have gained world-wide praise as an undoubted specific for
this distressing complaint.
Mrs. J. S. Pawlson, a dressmaker, for-
merly residing at Wolfran-street, Broken
Hill, and now at Fremantle, W.A., was
severely troubled with Biliousness, she
consulted several doctors without result,
at length Bile Beans for Biliousness cured
her, and she writes as follows: —“For
about eighteen years, previous to about
two years ago, I was a sufferer from
extreme Biliousness, The attacks, were so
severe at times that I fell down in fainting
fits. Of course you will understand the
effect these fits had on my general health.
I consulted several doctors with regard to
my complaint, but their prescriptions had
little beneficial effect, and that only for the
time being, I also tried many different
brands of patent medicines but without
effect. About two years ago I happened to
see an advertisement wherein Bile Beans
had proved efficacious in curing Biliousness,
and decided to purchase a box. After a
few doses I,felt first-rate, and continuing
with them I was completely cured, and have
had no recurrence of the fainting fits for
twelve months, and the biliousness has
entirely left me. I also give Bile Beans great
praise as a blood purifier. Previous to taking
them my face was very sallow and covered
with brown spots, but now, thanks to Bile
Beans, I have a fairly good complexion. I
have recommended them in many cases,
and the verdict has been, they are a
wonderful medicine.”
Ri’e Soans have now g-ained a world-wide reputation for curing Mlirusness fndfgestron,
3onst.patton, Piles, Bad Blood, PI nj,l s Debility. Female Weaknesses. Anosmia, Ke ciache,
insomnia, Summer Fag, &c. Obcai ia,.la from Ml i<Ced cine Vendors, Price Is. i.'.d. or 2s. 9d.
large uox (contains three tini-s small small size).
a
m3^Bsss^ssssssffwma
w
m
k
\w.
i&BS&SESgmBsa&e.
w/JMm
MMHI
Ml
H
■
i m
,
ii
H
M
m
m
m
m
I ; ■ s
fgfg
MM
HI
mm
m
■m
m
m
m
m
mm
mm
■
'
mjp
111111
I'. • - "
m.
mmm
- ■
. • -r . -.-
,'k
mmmMMmmm,
i | -■ Isi
. v I
zmim.
'W&vM
M§js,
m
i
m
m
:
IVES
mm
m
The Drums of Battersea.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They can’t hear in West o’ London, where the
• worst dine with the best—
Deaf to all save lies and laughter, they can’t hear
in London West—
Tailored brutes and splendid harlots, and the
parasites that be—
They can’t hear the warning thunder of the
Drums of Battersea.
More drums ! —War drums 1—
Drums of Misery—
Beating from the hearts of men—the Drums of
Battersea.
‘ Where the hearses hurry over, and where man
lives like a beast,
They can feel the work-drums beating—men of
Hell! and London East.
And the far-off foreign farmers, fighting fiei’cely
to be free,
Found new courage in the echo of the Drums of
- Battersea.
More drums I —War drums !
Beating for the free—
Boating on the hearts of men—the Drums ’of
Battersea.
And the drummers ! Ah ! the drummers ! —stern
and haggard men are those
Standing grimly at their meetings; and their
washed and mended clothes
Speak of worn-out wives behind them and of
grinding poverty—
But the English of the English beat the Drums of
Battersea !
More drums ! War drums!
Drums of agony—
The big bruised heart of England’s in the Drums
of Battersea.
Where in fields slave Englishwomen, oh 1 the
sound of drums is there :
I have heard it in the laughter of the nights of
Leicester Square-
Sailing southward with the summer, London but
a dream to me,
Still I feel the distant thunder of the Drums of
Battersea !
More drums ! War drums !
Drums of Liberty-
Rolling round the English world—the Drums of
Battersea.
Oh ! I heard them in the Queen’s Hall —ay ! and
London heard that night—
While we formed up round the leaders while they
struck one blow for right !
And the old strength, that old fire, that I thought
was dead in me,
Blazed up fiercely at the beating of the Drums of
Battersea !
More drums ! War drums !
They beat for victory
When above the roars of Jingoes rolled the Drums
of Battersea.
And where’er my feet may wander, and howe’er
I lay iny head,
-1 shall hear them while I’m dreaming—l shall
hear them when I’m dead !
For they beat for men and women, beat for
Christ, and you and me :
There is hope.and there is terror in the Drums of
Battersga !
More drums ! War drums !
Drums of destiny :
There’s -hope I—there’s hope for England in the
Drums of Battersea.
HENRY LAWSON.
A Sermon in Maremma.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is a long white road through the wheat-
fields, which are ablaze at millionons points with
poppies. So many poppies are there that their
changing in the breeze gives you the suggestion
of the night on these foot-hills, when the air is
sown and shot with fire-flies.
These little fields of thirty furrows wide,
The little crops of sixty paces long.
Why, that statement has cut itself into verse-
lengths without my aid or wish. It’s hard to write
prose if the words sing. Above is Massa Marit-
tima perched on the high cliffs and trying to look
young in the new spring sun, although it
was old before Joseph took Mary to Egypt to
escape Herod the King. The ox-waggons come
down from Massa—their two great mouse-colored
bulls clashing wide and degenerate horns as the
lazy driver drags on the iron bit in their nostrils.
The waggons go to Follonica. The weeding girls
who are working on the half-grown wheat, their
wooden shoes stacked by the roadside (for wooden
shoes wear out, and feet do not) are oblivious of
the waggons and Follonica; and so are we—you
and I.
Loaf along an inch on your elbow—it is a
Titanic struggle, I know—and see the shimmer of
the indigo-blue of the Mediterranean beyond
Follonica; and on the sky-line is a belt of our
expatriated countrymen, the Eucalypti, brought
hero to bring health to the beauteous swamp of
the Maremma. Do not look upon the gum-trees
—we are here exiles also.
You remember the first gum we talked under,
kissed and quarrelled under. No, you don’t.
.1 ust like a woman—forgetting the trivialities and
clutching the essentials.
Ifor lunch we have sausage of Genoa and sweet
peas in the pod ; a bottle of sweet Capri for you,
a big bottle of Barolo for me, and a little bottle—
a pocissimo—of Bousaquie. Now, there’s a liqueur
brandy for you. Fill a glass, empty it, and wash
that glass in hot water, and the glass is still
sticky.
For eating there are two fowls—a fowl-and-a-
half is sufficient for me. If a man is stronger he
should be considerate, and you may have the
other half. Some cold veal, salad, oranges,
peaches, and loquats.
Pearly beloved, —There is but one religion, and
that is the religion of love—not Heavenly love
(whatever that is)— not love that gives up all—but
love which is just sufficiently renunciatory to
give away that which it does not want in order to
secure in return that which it does want. (Pass
the salt, O, my beloved). The love which is
worthy of a religion is certainly not all ideal; and
it is certainly not all material. Absolutely
Heavenly love dies because it is starved—abso-
lutely material love dies because it is surfeited.
And when the love (any love) dies, the capacity
to love begins to die, too, and with the capacity
to love, the lover also. Experience is indelible—
we can never again get the psychological flush of
youth, although we may secure a return of the
physiological—by exercise or wine ; but that great
trustfulness —that freshness of first love—can never
come to us again. Therefore, are we very neces-
sary to one another. (You may have all that veal.
I don’t like it.)
Any religion not based on common ordinary
humanity—that is not really a reflection of it—
dies. A really heaven-inspired religion would
have no more support in the market than a “ bull ”-
operation in ice at the North Pole.
See, for instance, how the hymns of the Angli-
can church reflect the desires of the people they’re
intended for. The favorite hymn of the male
religionist is “ Onward, Christian Soldier.” For
myself, it affects me slightly in the same way as
the Marseillaise does. When I hear the Mar-
seillaise played I want to go out and stab a Jingo
and see all the sawdust run out of his heart.
We’ve only one glass. You drink first. . . .
Now kiss your side of the glass, and keep your
finger on the place while I pour out the wine. . . .
May you live a thousand years, and then die of
love for me.
Dearly beloved—As the man who has religion
is kept up to the mark by strident militant hymns,
so is the woman-convert encouraged to aspire to
the glory of submission. See how sincerely the
women sing the hymps of apparent renunciation
—it isn’t renunciation ; it’s submission, and sub-
mission with a woman is conquest :
Oil ! to be nothing,
Only to lie at his fret,
A broken and empty vessel
For the Master's use made meet.
Now that’s all of earthly love—real, human
love. It has nothing more to do with the Chris-
tian ideal of renunciation than you and I have to
dp with the modelling of that awful Michael-
Ange o Adam and Eve in Pisa Cathedral.
Dearly beloved ! Did you feel when we first
met that you wanted to lie at my feet? —Now,
don’t throw the fruit at me ; you might want it
before you die —or maybe after. Fruit, I’m told,
is very cooling.
Pass the Bousaquie, please.'
Dearly beloved ! —ln conclusion. There is but
one religion, and it is love ; but one heaven, and
it is a heaven we may have every day ; and but
one sacrament —a kiss.
See those prematurely-aged Women carrying
the great flat wine-barrels full of water on their
heads. It is a very courageous fine, a Cupid
used to knocks and bad housing, who comes to
stay with them. In the interests of love for all,
poverty should- be legislated off the earth.
To the mountain or the sea. Up the mountain
to Massa be it, then. And let us praise Love
with the hymn of Exhortation as we go.
Go not happy day
From the shining fields ;
Hasten not away
Till the maiden yields.
And it is a pity that a day is but 24 hours long.
FLORENCE.
RANDOLPH BEFORD.
The Motions of Mipper.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Nipper got spliced yesterday, and last night he
invited “the herd” to a “darnce and general
jollo.” Towards 10 o’clock some of ’em mixed
matters, and Nipper left ’em to it and came out-
side with a few of his cobbers.
“Yersee,”he says, “when a bloke breaks up
over ’is girl yer don’t want ter go near ’im, ’n’ yer
want ter keep ’ er away from ’im, too, coz when
she starts squarin’ ’im ’e only gets worse and
finishes up by gettin’ drunk. Then next mornin’
’e fetches 40 bob for heavin’ ’is science about ’n’
tearin’ a uniform. ’N’ another thing : when yer
takin’ yer donah to a darnce yer don’t want ter
tell ’er not to darnce with any certain bloke, coz
she’ll promise yer she won’t orlright, but d’reckly
she gets to the ’all, strike me pink, he’s the very
fust bloke she looks for. Don’t / know ’em !
" My little bit o’ heliotrope use ter break me up
that way once, but I tumbled to a thing or two.
W’en I'd feel that sinkin’ feelin’ below me belt
coinin’ on I use ter say to meself, ‘ Here goes ! ’
Then I’d start doin’ a tale to every girl in the
room ’n’ givin’ ’em garden stuff. Well, my little
lot’d stand it for a while, then she’d get sulky an’
ref use to darnce ; then I know’d I ’ad ’er, ’n’ when
we’d be goin ’ome she use ter rouse on me quietly ;
then I know’d she was mine ’n’ I was ’ers, coz
when yer girl rouses on yer fer a thing er that
sort, it’s a moral cert she gone on yer. One night
though (don’t tell her I sezso) she was so broke-up
that she started cryin’. Well, blime, that broke
me up, too; so I says, ‘Well, will yer splice it?’
‘Ribuck,’ says she, so I sells my new ’arness an’
‘ ‘ Wot! the one wid all the brasses and red
morocca on ? ”
“ Yes.”
“Strewth ! ”
“ Yes, I sells it ’n’ borrows a fiver on my cart,
’n’ ’ere you’s are to-night. But, I say, don’t none
o’ you’s go away ; there’s a spread after. Mag’s
old woman made the blue monges.
“No beer, Nipper? ”
“Whips—but don’t give Micko none till ’e’s
quiet.”
ROBERT HAP.
The new Russian law re illegitimates is
rather advanced. The father is obliged to give
the child all that is necessary to support it, ac-
cording to the social position of the mother. Ille-
gitimates inherit their share of the father’s personal
property, but have no claim on what is entailed.
A father is allowed to legitimise an illegal child
without marrying the mother, but if he has a
lawful wife, the consent of his legal children, if
any, must be given, and if they are minors, their
mother may consent for them. Whether she is
likely to consent in Russia it is hard to say, but
the chance of her consenting in Australia doesn’t
amount to much. This law considerably (and
justly) diminishes the marrying value of a man
with a lurid Past. After all, the good woman is
entitled to look on man (if she likes) as a money-
making machine whose worth as a husband is
diminished if his income has to be shared
with three or four previous blunders. A small-
incomed man, under the Russian law, is fear-
fully handicapped, and generally has to take
somebody whose teeth overlap.


A Stringof Complaints
Languor, Depression, General Undoing, Loss of Appetite, Weakness,—
A String of Complaints Due to Hot Weather.
lUS
■■ \
Mr. G. J. Plenty, of Bowden, South
Australia, sends us his photograph
and says:
“I have a regular string of com-
plaints every summer. The excessive
heat prostrates me. I feel languid
and depressed and have a general un-
doing of my health. A great many
of my friends complain in the same
way. Lately I have found that Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla overcomes all these bad
effects and enables me to go through
the hot season without any trouble.
It revivifies my system, purifies my
blood, and gives me an unusual de-
gree of strength. lam sure no one
will do disappointed with this medi-
cine, for it is not only a preventive
but also a powerful cure of dis-
ease.”
“The World’s Greatest Family IVBedicine.”
Keep your blood in good condition, keep your digestion strong, and keep
your nervous system vigorous. Then you will not suffer from the weakening
effects of liot weather. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla was made for just these purposes.
It cools the bloodstones up the digestive apparatus, puts force into the
nervous system. And it fortifies you against hot weather, cold weather, or
changeable weather. It gives strength to ward off disease.
Don’t be deceived by trying some other Sarsaparilla. Don’t experiment
with imitations. Hold fast to the tried and tested Sarsaparilla-r- Ayer’s.
A Tonic for All Seasons of the Year
Ayer’s Pills are a purely vegetable laxatWe for whole fam
PRIZE NEPAL DRESSING.
ħ
takes first prize medals at Boston, Vienna, London, Phila-
delphia, Melbourne, and all other leading cities, for pro-
ducing the finest possible polish, and absolute freedom
from all substances injurious to the leather
It is the favorite dressing of the world for
,
shoes, as it is easily applied, retains its brilliancy, and will
not rub off and soil garments, fry it once and you will
use it always. Sold nearly everywhere. Made only by
C. L. tIAUTfIAWAY SONS, OOS I,?1; £ AS?
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK; Price, 4s. 6d
A Handsome Cloth-bound Volume of over 300 pages. The best
collection of Short Stories and Literary Sketches yet produced in
< Australia. Price, 4s. 6d., postage 6d. Wholesale; Edwards,
- Dunlop and Co.
LIST OF CONTENTS.
Postage 6d
h
AtYakrawonga
His Hair
Strawberry : A Love Story
The Patient’s Hand-8e11...
The Correspondence of a
Little Dressmaker
A Martyr of Ho Account...
Nick Vedder’s Gold
Products , ... ... ....
An Error in Administration
A Bridal Party and a Dog
Broken China
The Dispersion of Mrs.
Black ...
White-When - He’s-Wanted
The Tramp
The Man who saw a Moa ...
From the Log of the Out-
ward Bound
On Our Selection
A Box of Dead Roses ...
A Stripe for Trooper Casey
Swamp-Swallowed
Bailifes I Have Met
Three Cups of Tea ...
Silhouettes : My Horse ...
Hanging'and Hell
The School at Sergeant’s
The Burial Service of a
Musician ...
Selling Scripture Texts.
“ Colonial Experience”.
The Ferryman
Barmy Barker’s Boots
The Benefit of Clergy
F. S. Delmer
Mabel Ho 1 vies
J. J. Poynton
F.M.W.G.
Maud Light
G. H. 'Soiiter
A. Comm,y ._
A. Rose-Soley
A. C. M-Cag
“ Omega ”
■ ‘ Hoiya ”
‘ Robin Studholme
A. B. Paterson
Barbara Baynton
“ Weka
J. H. Greene
Arthur H. Davis
Ethel Mills
Roderic Quinn
Alex. Montgomery
Victor J. Daley
F. Rollett
“ A. Ghee ”
Phil. Mowbray
“ Ponte ”
“ McG.”
“ Boiling Billy ”
J.P.
L. De Bakker.
E. S.. Sorenson
Alex. A He, i
Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
PILL
Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cosn veness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This' is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINBA A BOX.”
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he ivor/d. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND-
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is IJd, an'd 12s 9d each.
The Bulletin Reciter; Price ss.
By Eighty (80) Bulletin Bards. With Illustrations by
“Hop,” N. Lindsay, A. J. Fischer, F. Leist, D. H.
, Souter, and H. McCrae. In handsome Cloth, decorated.
Price, 55.; postage, 4d.
Sole Distributing Agents —
Edwards, Dunlop & Co. , Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
YOU ENJOY YOUR LUNCH
George and Market Sts.j
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
Single Room, with Full Board, Bs. per
day, or £2 2s. per week.
TERMS. — The convenient
system of paying for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms ; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is.— and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.3 o—from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
I
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
ĥh
M.D., C.M., LE.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E,
L.F.P.S.G., L.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
etc.,
flay be CONSULTED DAILY
151 ELIZABETH STREET (Hyde Park), SYDNEY
(ELMLEY HOUSE).
Or. MARTIN, during his recent European Tour, visited the Leading Hospitals of GREAT BRITAIN
and EUROPE, and has now at his CONSULTING ROOMS all the latest improvements in ELECTRIC
APPLIANCES, BATHS, etc., and all the most recent scientific methods of treatment for all NERVOUS,
LUNG, HEART, SKIN, and all CHRONIC DISEASES of Men and Women, including the BROWN-
SEQUARD, KRAFTT-EBING, and KNOX-MERCER TREATHENT for all ACUTE INFLAMMA-
TORY and CHRONIC COfIPLAINTS, in the treatment of which he has been so successful during his
14 years’ Australian practice, thus ensuring all Patients entrusting themselves to his care an accurate
diagnosis, together with prompt and effectual treatment. •
COUNTRY PATIENTS treated by Correspondence (Fee, by letter, £1). Medicines forwarded to all
parts of Australasia. All communications confidential. Dr. MARTIN has treated over 20,000 cases during
the last 15 years—a success unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia.
Moderate Charges* Effectual Treatment* Absolute and Rapid Cures*
CONSULTATION HOUIiS-lO to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.


CELLULOID —-
COLLAR —-—
GOODNESS
We sell the good kind of Celluloid
Collars. Our Celluloid Collars
have a nice, white, clean appear-
ance, and stay white. They clean
well, and last longer than other
kinds. They save lots of money, be-
cause you can wash them yourself.
In all the latest styles and
shapes, at Lowest Prices
for Highest Qualities.
PERDRSAU & CO.
Rubber Merchants,
270 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
1
WE SHIP OH APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
Latest
Models'
£2.10 *,£5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
Free wheels. Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any Tort in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using 2jd. Stamp. Address Dept 3460
h
Chicago ,
O.S.A.
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. G. ELDBIDGE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STRJUUT, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
ROTHERS
SO
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
ĥ
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDMEY.
Pumps
Fof all Services kept in Stock.
Send fox* Catalogue.
ħ
Porks,
& Scissors CUTLERY
Celebrated
PLATE and
h
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Peopes.. SHEFFIELD.
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York-St.
SYDNEY.
Also as
** TJgjpEl 331*0 GJaC,*’
Collins-st.. MELBOURNE.
ĥ
*
&
0
V
&
P e
KEEPS THE SKIM
COOL AND
REFILLED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- & 2 6
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grim wade & Co.
Melbourne ;
LlO'l'T iiUOS., SYDNEY.
ħ
h
Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
ach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
ĥ
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
ħ
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
as wen as Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers,
h
KCA.VB IKT STOCK
All Kinds of Engineers
Wood Pulleys
Shafting:
;
SUMO
Valves Valves Valves Valves
Oster Stocks and Dies and Taps, Crane Hinged Pipe Vyces, Emery
Wheels and Grinders, ail kinds of Lubricators, Starrett Fine
Mechanical Tools, etc., etc., etc.
write for Prices to 60 Ciarence-st., Sydney, IM.S.W.
ĥ
TO
V- HE
ħ
Sufferers frens Deafnets or Met... Noises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
•bettld write to The L. R. VERNON (JO.
,69 HUNTER «T., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet desc ibing an entirely new self-
applied method which we will send post
free on mentioning this paper.
H. P. GREGORS S CO.
Machinery Merchants,
Melbourne & Sydney.
HAVE IN STOCK-
Blake’s Steam Pumps.
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery.
Mundy’s Hoisting Engines-
Empire Co.’s Laundry Machinery-
American “All Steel” Pulleys-
Harris ‘‘Champion” Lubricating Oils.
Mason Reducing Valves-
Ludlow Sluice Valves-
Korting’s Injectors and Ejectors-
Tanite Emery Wheels.
NERVOUSNESS.
DOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS Of SELF
CURE, will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER, G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
RARE.)
BOOKS I
FRENCH,
ENGLISH,
GERMAN,
2/-
Largest Catalogue, with
Spei i men Photo. Apply
Box 116 Paris.
The ‘Raplin* Hand Ice Machine
Ice produced by simply turning handle. A decanter
of water made ice cold in 3 minutes. No risk, no trouble.
Invaluable in the country, where ice cannot be bought.
The ‘Abbott’ Filter
' Stops all disease germs. Makes the foulest water pure
and wholesome.' Easily cleaned. Erom 22s 6d.
Full Particulars on application to
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
Sole Agents. 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Trewhella Bros.’
PATENT
LOG AND STUMP JACKS.
If you have Stumps, Roots, Stones, or Logs to clear, or
Threshers or Machinery to move, try these Jacks. They
are used by thousands throughout; Australasia, and the
sales are rapidly increasing, which proves their value.
You can obtain them from the ironmonger with whom
you deal, or I will supply you direct.
The Melbourne and Sydney Prices are—
Lift, Tons Prick
Double Purchase Jack
■ fj
w
tf
Single „ »
With Patent LOWERING CEAR, 5/- extra.
4 65/-
6 75/-
2* 40/-
Full Information and Trade Discounts from
W. TREWHELLA, Trentham, Victoria,
or H. HINDS, 17 Lofbus St., Sydney.
