

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
’S CHAMPAGNE
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
ot
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
XS. G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining siequisi&3s
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
270
Prize
Medals.
22,500
Steam
Engines
Sold.
d
SEND FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS
Rock Drills
Little Giant
pA^
so
GO
SOLE AGENTS :
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd
„ I' ’' "■ •
larence-st., Sydney, "SKon n.:
A Policy for the Comm
Being a reprint of a large number of
The Bulletin, in which this paper has ai
outline a solvent, honest and democra
for Federated Australia.
0.,
mm
m
1 ™ 9 '
SOLE AGENTS FOR
& c
ENGINES
••
II
.
H
AND
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE—PORTABLE,
VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
ibLing AtEaolxixxes, Saw Benches, &0.,
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
HELIDON
fsd
'k
M*
i
«E
f
SOBAXIT.
Hadley s Orient Hotel.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South. Melbourne.
Telephone No. IOhS. *^CJiTERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Bails
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCINQ FLOORS
oT various sizes supplied.
df
Gold Medal Paris, against the World.
No. 1 Claret
No. 1 Burgundy-
Invalid Port
No. 0 Claret
Old Tawny Port
Frontignac
Hook
Chablis
Muscadine
Golden Sherry
M
Nature’s Restorative.
df
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2£ 8 3} 4 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
-/7 -/9 -/10J II- 1/2 1/6 1/11 2/8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 2/11 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWIGI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG, X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Eight Different Articles,
comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket (a good
trick), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin
apd Card Tricks),Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard
Hash (gives definition of your character), That Wonderful
Cinematograph or Book of Living Pictures, Mafeking
Grub (or nerve-strengthener), That side-splitting Look
and Laaigh Glass, and, last of all, The Magic Mirror, or
Wonderful Breathing Glass. Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
X
710 George-street,
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
SY
sdf
sd
Those
suffering
from weak
and sore eyes,
and blight, should
SINGLETONioiNTMENT
Never Fails. Restores Eyelashes.
ALL CHEMISTS.
{WHISKY} are An mming.
EMPIRE HOTEL, SYDNEY
ZMIOST 1 GEUTBA3LI.Y SITTJATED.
OTARD-DUPOY
Bstbd. 1795. 25 Years BRANDY.
m
PROOF
%
sajeY-s
USE
Office:
10 BUCK ST., SYDNEY
m
ua’s BOOMERANG BRANDY
AMONG THE MANY TESTIMONIALS RECEIVED FROM AUSTRALIAN HOSPITALS
IS THE FOLLOWING :
“Our patients have greatly benefitted by the use of Joshua Bros.’ Brandy.
It is a very nourishing and Beneficial Stimulant. It gives me great pleasure
to recommend it.”
71)19 18 from the Resident-Medical Officer of one of the leading Hospitals in Western Australia.
COLLINS’ PATENT PROSPECTING DISH
aa
'
9
safes
Has the following- advantages
over the ordinary Tin Dish—
A flange projects round one half and
prevents the loss of any metal —
fine or coarse.
No experience is required to use it.
A boy can pan off as easily as the
most skilful miner.
Double the amount of work can be
done in a given time than with the
old dish.
Sold by all Storekeepers and Iron-
mongers throughout Australia.
If you have any difficulty in procuring
the Collins* Patent Dish in your
own district write to—
R. JOHNSON CLAPHAM
and MORRIS, LTD.
78 Pitt St., Sydney, and
231 Elizabeth St, Melbourne.
Manufacturers under license from the
Patentee.
The Bulletin
Yol. 23.—N0. 1153.]
[Saturday, March 22, 1902.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


* From *" Prosperous ” British India , by William
Digby (London : T. F. Unwin, 1901). This book,
upon which the present article is in great part
based, is sub-titled “A Revelation from Official
Records.” The author collects a mass of state-
ments, statistics, diagrams, and comparisons which
are invaluable to anyone who wishes to understand
the true condition of India and the relation of
India to Britain.
j Asia and Europe (London : Constable, 1901).
THE LATEST BOOKS AT-
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Knight’s With the Royal Tour, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Kennedy’s Sailor Tramp, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Lupton’s Mine Surveying, 15s, p. 9d.
Waterhouse, Story of Architecture, Is, p. 3d.
Sergeant’s Mission of Margaret, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Alwyn’s From Downs to Shires (a Hunting novel) 1/3, p 4d
Sheehan’s Duke Delmege, 3s 6d & -2s 6d, p. 6d.
Kingford’s Henry V (Heroes of the Nations) ss, p. 8d
* k Write to us for any Book or Magazine you want.
We are always pleased to answer enquiries.
71 cASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
For tli e XjUrNG-S, tlie THROA.T, tli© “VOICE!
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs ! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
t»,nd the Prevention
of Consumption.
As*
a
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
w Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous drurj . .
f ~ . p rt /~n ■ *. T ♦
SOLD BY ALL
free on receipt of st
Melbourne, Agents.
. Contajn _
In Tins, 1s 6d; from the Proprietor, (). HUDSON Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland—post
ips. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE, and FELTON, GKIMWADE & CO.,
(J r ' .V., 1 .. ji
THE RED PAGE.
Britain and India.
There exists one unique historical
parallel with the legend of the vam-
pire and his victim. .It is the story
of Britain in India.
The vampire of medieval legend was a
human being who, being dead, yet lived—
by feeding on the blood of another. Central
Europe relates to this day, and with fear
and trembling believes, that certain men
have prolonged their lives immemorially
by the device of sucking blood from
the veins of chosen victims. (So with the
empire of Britain.) That the victim, with
life draining by degrees from the keen
wound of the vampire’s tooth, grows ever
paler and more feeble, passing in trance to
the end. (So with India.) That then, join-
ing the ranks of the Un-dead, neither dead
nor alive, the victim himself becomes a
subordinate vampire, preying as he has
been preyed upon. (So again with
India, the forces of whose conquered
principalities have been used to extend still
further the power of Britain—Madrasee
against Maratha, Maratha against Sikh, Sikh
against Gurka, Gurka against Chitrali.) And
always, bathed continually in fresh blood,
the chief vampire gathers youth and strength,
thriving on his toll of human lives. (So with
Britain, whose commercial greatness has been
founded and sustained by the absorption of
Indian life and treasure.)
To the truth of the parallel let the Prime
Minister of Britain bear witness. “As
India must be bled, ” wrote Lord Salisbury
when Secretary of State for India, in a minute
dated April 29, 1875, “ the lancet should be
directed to the parts where the blood is congested,
or at least is sufficient, not to those which are
already feeble from the want of it.” And from
the day when Clive conquered at Plassey. to
the day of the last Indian Budget Statement,
and to this day, the truth ever in the minds
of John Company and of John Bull and
of Johu Bull's statesmen has been the truth
which Loi’d Salisbury nakedly and cynically
expressed —
“India Must Be Bled.”
Bled ! How India has been bled ! In all
the records of conquest, in all the histories
of subject races, there is no record, no his-
tory, of such a systematic, such a compre-
hensive, such a continuous bleeding for the
benefit of the conqueror and master. To
the robbery of India by the armed hand
succeeded a trade robbery which involved
the destruction of Indian national industries,
and which endures together with a govern-
ment robbery that taxes millions of people
past the starvation-point into famine and
death. The average Australian income in
1900 was about £4O per head. The average
income in Scotland was £45 per head, subject
to an average taxation of £2 13s. Bd., or about
one-seventeenth. The average income in
India was £1 2s. 4d. per head, subject to an
average taxation of 3s. 3d., or about one-
seventh. “But 230,000,000 out of 231,085,132
people in British India have an income,
before any taxation is imposed, of only
about 12s. per head per annum, or less than
one halfpenny per had per day. Out of that
12s. at least 2s. 6d. is taken by way of
taxation, or 20 per cent, of the total income.
. . . Therefore, proportionately to income,
the Indian subject of the British Crown is
taxed more than four times higher than is his
Scottish fellow-subject, and three times
higher than his English compeer. Further,
it is one thing to take 2s. 6d. out of 125.,
and quite another thing to take £2 13s, Bd.
out of £45, especially when the latter income
is spendable in a land where food-stuffs are
ever growing cheaper, and the former in a
country where food is ever becoming dearer
and dearer, and life in every direction
increasingly hard.” *
The Plunder of India.
Nearly every nation robs a weaker nation
when it has the opportunity ; and Britain
has been the most successful robber among
modern nations. When Spain robbed South
America, England intercepted the Spanish
treasure-ships and robbed Spain. But after
the Protectorate there was a considerable
cessation of British thievery. In the latter
half of the 17th century, as Brooks Adams
points out in The Law of Civilisation and
Decay (London : Swan Sonnenschem, 1900) :
No foreigner was robbed, and the stock of
domestic silver dwindled from year to year, until
at the Revolution the golden guinea, which from
its first issue in 1662 down to the accession of
William and Mary had been nominally current
for twenty shillings, actually sold in the market
for thirty shillings of the money in use.
In the first, half of the 18th century the
store of British treasure remained small.
Writes the same author—
From 1694 to Plassey, the growth had been
relatively slow. For more than sixty years after
the foundation of the Bank of England its small-
est note had been for £2O, a note too large to
circulate freely, and which rarely travelled far
from Lombard Street . . . Thus the arrival of the
Bengal silver not only increased the mass of
money, but stimulated its movement; for at once,
in 1759, the bank issued £lO and £l5 notes, and in
the country private firms poured forth a flood of
paper.
Very soon after Plassey, the Bengal plunder
began to arrive in London, and the effect appears
to have been instantaneous, for all authorities
agree that the “industrial revolution,” the event
which has divided the 19th century from all antece-
dent time, began with the year 1760. Prior to
1760, according to Baines, the machinery used for
spinning cotton in Lancashire was almost as
simple as in India ; while about 1750 the English
iron industry was in full decline because of the
destruction of the forests for fuel. At that time
four-fifths of the iron used in the kingdom came
from Sweden.
Plassey was fought in 1757, and probably
nothing has ever equalled the rapidity of the
change which followed. In 1760 the flying-shuttle
appeared, and coal began to replace wood in smelt-
ing. In 1764 Hargreaves invented the spinning-
jenny, in 1779 Crompton contrived the mule, in
1785 Cartwright patented the power-loom, and,
chief of all, in 1768 Watt invented the steam-
engine, the most perfect of all vents of centralising
energy. But, though these machines served
as outlets for the accelerating movement
of the time, they did not cause thaA
acceleration. In themselves inventions are
passive, many of the most important having been
dormant for centuries, waiting for a sufficient
store of force to have accumulated to set them
working. That store must always take the shape
of money, and money not hoarded, but in motion.
. . . Steam had been experimented upon long
before the birth of Watt. The least part of
Watt’s labour lay in conceiving his idea; he
consumed his life marketing it. Before the
influx of the Indian treasure, and the expansion
of credit which followed, no force sufficient for
this purpose existed ; and had Watt lived fifty
years earlier, he and his invention must have
perished together. . , .
Possibly since the world began no investment
has ever yielded the profit reaped from the Indian
plunder. ...
What was the extent of the wealth thus
wrung from the East Indies ? “No one,”
says Digby, “ has been able to reckon ade-
quately, as no one has been in a position to
make a correct ‘ tally ’ of the treasure
exported from India. Estimates have been
made which vary from £500,000,000 to nearly
£1,000,000,000. Probably between Plassey
and Waterloo the last-mentioned sum was
transferred from Indian hoards to English
banks.”
The Indian Tribute.
The work of plunder, so well begun, has
been systematically continued. “ India must
be bled.” Britain no longer steals with the
mailed fist; she steals with the tax-collector’s
itching palm. Seventy years ago Mont-
gomery Martin wrote that—
The annual drain of £3,000,000 from British
India has mounted in thirty years, at 12 per cent,
(the usual Indian rate) compound interest, to the
enormous sum of £723,900,000 sterling.
And, adds Digby—
From that day to this there has been no cessa-
tion in the flow. More: with every year it has
increased, until the stream which in 1830 was re-
garded as almost beyond control, has increased
tenfold, and has become beyond con-
trol. It is true the area drained is larger now
than then, but the proportion of wealth annu-
ally taken is far greater. During the closing
ten years of the nineteenth century it became
beyond control, to the extent of involving more
than half the cultivators in the Empire in almost
irremediable debt; it has turned the moneylender
into the real lord and sovereign of India, while
twenty millions of patient, suffering, excellent
people have died prematurely from want of food
and from the diseases occasioned by privation and
from plague. During the last thirty years of the
century the average drain cannot have been far
short of £30,000,000 per year, or, in the thirty
years,'£9oo,ooo,ooo, not reckoning interest !
But “ India must be bled.”
The Nature of the Drain.
British India contains more than 231 mil-
lion inhabitants. “Above this inconceivable
mass of humanity,” writes Meredith Towns-
end, J governing all, protecting all, taxing all,
rises what we call here “ the Empire,” a cor-
poration of less than 1500 men “ who are set
to govern, and who protect themselves in
governing by finding pay for a minute white
garrison of 65,000 men.” When India
governed herself, the cost of government
was paid in the country, and the money
returned to the country : now that Britain
governs India, a great part of the money
raised in taxation for government goes to
Britain and never conies back. Here are
some items of expenditure from the Indian
Budget of 1898-99 :
Interest on debt ... ... ~.£2,805,097
Interest and annuities on railways ... 5,874,215
Management of debt (payments to Bank
of England and Bank of Ireland) ... 49,978
Military charges in pay and allowances 1,382,477
Military pensions ... ... ... 2,421,679
Civil pensions ... ... ... 454,185
Indian Service Funds (annuities, pen-
sions, &c.) ... ... ... 1,498,474
Annuities, pensions, and furlough-allowances,
of course, are almost invariably spent out of
India. India is merely a place where English-
men go to make money—at the expense of a
starving population with an average income
of three-farthings per day. As Meredith
Townsend says—
The Viceroy rules for five years and departs.
The Councillor advises for five years and departs.
The General commands for five years and departs.
The Official serves for 30 years . . . and departs.
There is not in India one ruling man whom two
generations of Indians have known as ruling man.
Thus is consummated the Conquest by
Pousta —by a show of fair dealing, accom-
panied by an unrelenting determination to
make the most out of India for the benefit
of Britain and Britons. Thus it arises
that in 1898-99 the excess of Indian
exports (including treasure) over imports
was £22,555,144 —representing the tribute
which India pays for the privilege of being
called a part of the British Empire. This
money goes to Britain and never comes
back. It goes continually, year after year.
In the 65 years to 1898-99 the total drain
from India, the balance of Customs exports
over imports with trade profits at 10 per
cent, added, was £489,336,859. “Is there
any wonder,” asks Digby, seeing that it costs
the average Indian, beyond the one million
well-to-do folks, the value of five weeks’ food
in an annual income of thirteen shillings, to
pay taxation disbursed in Britain—“ is there
any wonder that, on the average, two
millions of British-Indian subjects of the
King-Emperor, Edward the Seventh, now
die in each year from want of food ? and
that twenty times two millions are continu-
ally starving ? ”
Details of the Indian Drain.
Part of the Indian tribute is paid in
interest on the debt, and it might be
contended that value is given in the rail-
ways. In India 22,000 miles of railways
have cost the country, for capital, land,
interest, and charges (estimates Digby)
over £300,000,000. The Indian govern-
ment guaranteed to the shareholders in
the chief private railways a permanent
interest of five per cent., with the
result that £40,000,000 has been taken
from the general revenue to make up
the interest. The guarantees were given
before the great fall in the price of silver,
and persist with a depreciated rupee, still
taken at the guaranteed rate of Is. lOd. !
though its value to-day is only Is. 4d. At
the time a considerable proportion of the
money was provided, ten rupees were
worth £1 sterling. A thirty years’ sink-
ing fund, in many instances, would
have procured the repayment of the capital
sum at rates varying from 10 to 12 rupees
per £. No provision was made for a sinking
fund ; and to-day, owing to the depreciation
of the rupee, instead of the debt being liqui-
dated at 12 rupees per £ borrowed, or less, it
is being liquidated at more than 22 rupees
per £ borrowed, without any advantage
accruing to the borrowers. “On the con-
trary,” writes Digby, “ they are being
cruelly, needlessly, drained of the very means
of daily existence through the shortsighted-
ness and heedless financing of their rulers.”
As regards loans, the Indian Government
borrowed in 1876-77 £1,000,000 for 101
years at four and a-half per cent. It bor-
rowed a further £1,500,000 as a perpetual
loan at four per cent. And to-day the Indian
Government can borrow at three per cent. !
The total drain of treasure from India
to Britain, in the nineteenth century only,
is estimated ‘by Digby, following Mont-
gomery Martin, at the enormous sum of
six thousand millions of pounds sterling
(£6,080,172,021). And the average Indian
income per head is now some three-farthings
per day , having dwindled to this from l|d.
per day in 1882, and 2d. per head in 1850.
The Appalling Increase of Famine.
What wonder that Indian misery is on the
increase, that famine in India is chronic and
continually enlarging its boundaries ? The
Indian tribute to England is paid in pounds
sterling, and the purchasing power of the
rupee —the Indian currency—has decreased
by about one-fourth since most of the debt
was contracted. In 1873-77 one rupee
purchased 361 b. of wheat in the Patna dis-
trict. In 1893-97 it purchased only 301 b.
In other Indian districts the value of the
rupee in food has similarly decreased, to a
greater or less extent, and the scourge of
Famine has grown continually more pitiless.
In the 107 years from 1793 to 1900 the esti-
mated loss of life by war in all the world was
5,000,000 persons. In India alone, during
ten years only, 1891-1900, the loss of life
through famine and concomitant disease was
upwards of 20,000,000 persons. The 11,000
children, slain in the African prison-camps
in six months last year to the greater glory
of the British Empire, are but a small
number compared with those martyred in
India every year to the same magnificent
end. India, indeed, has always been subject
to, famine. But under British rule famines
have grown steadily in intensity and in
extent. In the first quarter of the
last century there were five famines,
with perhaps 1,000,000 deaths. In the
second quarter, two famines, with perhaps
500,000 deaths. In the third quarter, six
famines, with 5,000,000 deaths (recorded).
And in the fourth quarter there were
eighteen famines, with 28,000,000 deaths
(estimated). India, under British sway,
grows steadily poorer, and more and more
wretched ryots are starved to death every
year. The very railways, which India is so
heavily taxed to support, have become a
means of increasing famine ; since, instead
of the grain from surplus years being stored
in the villages as formerly, it is now ex-
ported, and in famine years there is no re-
serve. The Indian Government has done
a great deal to increase the fertility of the
soil by irrigation ; but as soon as the land is
irrigated the taxes rise; and the Indian is
little better off than before. Sir George
Campbell, a former Lieutenant-Governor of
Bengal, who conducted in 1866 an enquiry
into, the causes of Indian famine, wrote that
“The British authorities were early alive to
the evil, and much sympathised with it; but
always with an over-ruling consideration for
the revenue. “ India must be bled.”
The Destruction of Indian Weaving.
India is not even allowed to help herself
out of the slough of distress into which her
British rulers have led her. The weaving
industry of India dates back beyond the
beginning of history ; and the weaving in-
dustry was remorselessly destroyed for
the benefit of Lancashire operatives—
just as the flourishing Irish woollen
industry was crushed at a blow by prohibi-
tive English statutes. The Indian cotton
product was so much better than the Eng-
lish that in 1700 an Act of Parliament was
passed to prohibit Indian textile goods from
being sold in England. Even when steam gave
the Lancashire mills so great a superiority,
the Indian mills held their own by produc-
ing a better article ; and Lancashire, which
owes her industry to Protection and penal
laws, insisted that the Indian import
duties should be reduced. A uniform
Indian tariff of 10 per cent. was
made in 1859 ; but in 1875 the duties were
further reduced. Under Lord Lytton, in 1877,
the same budget which announced the ex-
emption from duty of certain classes of cotton
goods, increased the salt duty by 40 per
cent, in Madras and Bombay. The loss of
the cotton duties was a further blow to
Indian native industry, and it came at a
time when India was suffering by the fall in
silver. After twelve years the Indian finan-
cial position became so bad that import
duties had to be re-imposed, but the British
Cabinet would not have cotton goods in-
cluded in the tariff. In 1895 cotton duties
averaging 5 per cent, were imposed ; reduced
in 1896' to per cent. And if India
governed herself for her own benefit, instead
of being governed by Britain for the benefit
of Britain, the duty would justly be pro-
hibitive. In the meantime, Lancashire
flourishes ; and—“lndia must be bled.”
The Decay of National Life.
Indian natives are not allowed to share in
the government of their own country, ex-
cept in subordinate positions. This de-
termined resolve to keep India under the
British heel as a subject province is one of
the greatest of Indian grievances. At the
Indian National Congress, held in December
last year, the contrast between Britain’s
beneficent professions and her systematic
practice was strongly put. Another point
referred to was what Meredith Town-
send calls ‘ ‘ the gradual decay of
much of which Indians were proud,
the slow death, which even Europeans
perceive, of Indian art, Indian culture,
Indian military spirit. Architecture, engi-
neering, literary skill, are all perishing out.”
This “total loss of .the interestingness of
life,” this destruction of the.national spirit,
the national pride, this reduction of bold
and talented races to the position of mere
serfs, whose business it is to live like beasts
in a leaden order of things that the tribute
to Britain may be paid, is the last
and perhaps the worst of all the evils
that India owes to Britain. Ireland, India,
now Africa —they are all going the way
of the British conqueror ; they are all
cementing with their blood and treasure the
edifice of British empire. And even when,
in the secular process, the day comes for the
Briton himself to be trod under the heel of
a more powerful nation, it may be that Time
will hold no revenges ; for the typical Briton
is too stolid and unimaginative to know to
the full the agonies of the Indian worm now
writhing vainly, vainly. In the meanwhile,
let us be practical as becomes us. Britain
must prosper ; and “India must be bled.”
A.


|l) c j)ougairs Fruit-Tree [Dashes
Chief Agents; F. LASSETTER & CO.
fsd
Send to
V/
k
Kangaroo,
Wallaby,
Rabbit,
Opossum.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO.,
„ SYDMEY ;
and so obtain utmost possible prices.
Ltd.
Undeniable Figures prove thab our PERFECT and UP-TO-DATE
system of handling Wool meets with full appreciation from Woolgrowers.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT& GO. Ltd.
gg"— * SYDMEY.
During; the Season 1901-2 we offered at auction 63»343 bales, and sold
at auction and privately ex Catalogue 56,202 bales, thus firmly
establishing; ourselves as the LEADING Wool Selling; Brokers of Sydney on
account of COUNTRY CONSIGNORS.
We invite inspection of our popular TRUST A/c System and of the figures given above.
N.B.— Our Figures do NOT Include private Sales of Uncatalogued Wool. Geobob Maiden, Manager.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.
Wool and Produce Brokers .
Consolidated Charge!
for Selling Wool j
2| Per Cent
/Includes all Charges excepting
/cartage from steamer’s wharf.
Fat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK; Price, 4s. 6d
HAVE THE
BEST.
( )
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily operate!, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR.
The Lateral Wires are two-ply cable of best Gal. Steel Wire intersected by Crimped Steel Pickets
securely intenvoven at any desii'ed distance apart, forming a perfect Web Fence which unll hold
securely all kinds of Stock. ,
FOB CATALOGUES AND PAKTICULAKS' —
“ CYCLONE ” WOVEN WIRE FENCE CO.,
128 Franklin St., Melbourne ; 143 Sussex St., Sydney.
WONDERFUL VALUE IN CIGARS.
SINGLE BOX AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
GUARANTEE: EVERY CIGAR SOUND AND IN PERFECT CONDITION.
Goods Exchanged or Money Returned.
CIGARS
DELIVERED FREE OF DUTY AND CHARGES*
ROM A QUEENS .. «
LA PAROLA, Reliable Smoke ..
HIGH LIFE MENDOZAS
NIMROD REIN A VICTORIA ..
LA SPECIAL, from Choicest Leaf
SANTIAGO LA FLOR, Fine Quality
“LEOLA,” Borneo, Mild Smoking
“ EL RIVAL,” Borneo, Full Flavor
HEAVY WEIGHTS (P. De Mendoza)
“PERLA” BOUQUET ..
“ EL MUNDO ” (Rothschilds)
“MENDOZA” (Rothschilds)
“ PERLA ” (Rothschilds)
“MINERVA” No. 1 MANILA ..
“WINDSOR LAJ>Y” (Manila Regalia) ..
“ PERLA MINERVA,” MANILA, Fine Quality
FLOR DE NAVES (Havana Reina)
HENRY CLAY (Havana Couchas, Extra)
SEND FOR
OUR
LIST
OF
C. 8.8.
BRIAR M
PIPES
TOBACCO MERCHANT and IMPORTER,
MICK SIMMONS,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY, Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 IF*or Cent, to the G-rowers.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do ndt Charge per lb. to the Buyers.
WARNER S SAFE CURE
ACTS SC!ENT!FIG ALLY
Curing, as ft does, all diseases of the Kidneys and Liver
this remarkable medicine necessarily cures speedily and permanently
Indigestion
Dyspepsia
Biliousness
Sick Headache
Rheumatism
Gout
Heuralgia
Lumbago
Backache
Sciatica
Ansemia
General Debility
Blood Disorders
Gravel
Bladder Troubles
Bright’s Disease
This is a long list of diseases for one medicine to cure. When, however, it is realised
that they one and all arise from an abnormal condition of the Liver or Kidneys, or
both, and that Warner’s Safe Cure, by attaching the seat of the disorder, restores the
Kidneys and Liver to health and activity, thus enabling those vital organs to naturally
remove from the body all poisonous acids and other waste products which cause these
diseases, it is easy to understand why such complaints are of necessity cured.


TATTERSALL’S.
\ •‘ - •• , - . ’• *' V
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hodart
DONCASTER H.
March 29
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in above.
Name.
Address
SYDNEY 0.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me_
Name
March 31.
shares in above.
Address.
£
City Tattersall’s H.
50,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name
Address
April 12.
in above.
ADELAIDE 0. May 7-
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address
£
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


■ M
■ Kl
k 2
M M N
M M
■j
N Ni m ■ m- m r
"CONTINUAL
HEADACHES,
sleepless nights, languor, and.
a nasty choking sensation in
the throat I endured until two
months ago, when
SEIGCL2
Syrup
Completely cured the acute indiges-
tion from which I had suffered for
three years. At first I was sceptical
as to its merits, but a friend insisted
on my taking it, and now I consider
its effect almost marvellous. It
changed me from an invalid
1 and dyspeptic of three years’
| standing into ahealthy woman.
r (Mrs.), A. Green, St. George’s
\ Hall Bldgs , Great North Rd.,
Auckland, N.Z.
Dec. 3rd, 1900.”
f
If you stop eating you
"will surely get thinner
and thinner, until at last
you starve to death. Grass
won’t answer, although
it is good for the horse.
You must have a food
suitable to your needs.
Ayer’s
Hair Vigor
is a hair food. It
won’t take the
place of grass or
bread. It is good
for the hair, and
that is all. It
feeds the hair
with hair food. The
hair can’t keep from
growing. It stops
* falling out because it is
hearty and strong. And
it always restores the early
rich, dark color to gray hair.
We say that “gray hair is starved
hair”; and the only way to treat it is
to supply the best kind of hair food.
This is where Ayer’s Hair Vigor differs
so greatly from other hair preparations;
it feeds the hair. Just keep that in
mind all the time you are using it.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
fluid
Mm.
TINDIG ESTION&
Biliousness
pr
I
Mild
FOR
am
A
y Infants
AND Invalids.
sdf
Dr. J. W. GIBBS*
. . Electric Massage Rollers . .
For use on Face and Body.
For NERVOUS HEADACHES,
NEURALGIA and RHEUMATISM
—a specific. Removes Wrinkles.
Gold, 21/- Silver, 16/-
Post Free. Pamphlets Free.
AMERICAN AGENCY COMPANY,
Box 440, G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
Franz Josef
APERIENT WATER
Is the ONLY PALATABLE NATURAL
APERIENT WATER.
Sole Agents : — Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne.
Castro’s Last Sacrament
By ALBERT DORRINGTON. 4s 6<J.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, .quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
PreawtiAs, or on
Freehold and C.P. (combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per cent,
of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
HEAD OFFICE : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
RICHARD TEEOE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
UMOU&ft.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 109,
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
£2T Send for a
Catalogue.
sdf
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers ot Right Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Work 8: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY,
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &0., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
m
WHOLESALE
Distributing; Agents
New South Wales—
M. RUTTY & GO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia—
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Western Australia—
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland —
Thos. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Philp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand —
D. Benjamin & Co.
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christchurch.
Zhe JVfosi Refreshing 2)rink in JTustralia.
'Montserrat
Lime-Fruit Juice
apd Cordials . . .
(TRADE MARK)
The LANCET saysi-HWe
counsel the public to drink
liime-Fruit Juice whenever and
wherever, they list. It is a far
more wholesome drink than
any form of Alcohol.”
“ Mcntserrat” Lime-Fruit Juice, either with water or aerated water, is a
delightful thirst quencher.
Solo Consignees—E Y ANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON.
EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
Agents:—Elliott Bros., Ltd., J. Connell & Co., Sydney; D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
((
ON OUR SLECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.; Sydney.
MARTELLS
“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
“ Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
ThJ Lancet.
BRANDY.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
When In town, pay us a visit.. Do you want, a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description oi
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, A 5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, A 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS arid SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we oan. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 pet
ent more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Clovoland-streot, Rodforn, SYDNisV
OUK SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
sdf
Delivered at any Wharf ®r
'•S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10 /-
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
When Whalen Struck the Lead.
The news went round upon the field—
’Twas borne on every breeze;
From man to man it sped along—
’Twas whispered thro’ the trees ;
And whiskered men from every clime,
And beardless natives too,
Rolled swags and loudly spoke the words
While still excitement grew.
The Overlander’s wrinkled face
Was marked with sudden greed—
The battery stampers seemed to champ :
“Ned Whalen’s struck the lead ! ”
The forest fell before the axe,
The green was turned to grey ;
The canvas houses rose in scores,
The camp-fires blazed away.
The birds of air took fright and fled
Before the striving throng;
Sluice-boxes filled the river-bed
For miles and miles along.
The tramp of feet came ever on—
The Old Hand chewed his weed
Remarking: “ Things are on the move
Now Whalen’s struck the lead ! ”
From snowy range and swollen creek
The miners mustered in,
And on the diggings liquor flowed,
And soberness was sin.
“Two ounces to the dish she pays ”
Was murmured in asides,
“Two ounces to the dish she pays
From where the rock divides
The wash-dirt from the main-reef bed ”
And that’s what gave the speed
And churned excitement into fire
Wh6n Whalen struck the lead !
The sods were turned with magic touch,
The piles of earth grew high ;
The shafts went down, the earth went up
In cones toward the sky.
The smothered curse, the gleeful laugh
Tuned in with windlass groans ;
A myriad minds found careful thought
In heaping clay and stones.
The heart found work—the hand found worlc-
The golden God of Greed
Was domineering power supreme
When Whalen struok the lead !
The flame of wealth was in their veins,
The love of life grew great ;
And every man had cheer to give,
And so had each man’s mate.
Some thought of pleasant news for home,
And cheques they would draw out;
While many a thirsty soul held hope
Of quenching stomaoh-drought.
Crushed independence showed its teeth,
The slave of chance was freed ;
And all the earth was in a whirl
When Whalen struck the lead !
M.L.
THOMAS McMAHON.
An Australian Epitaph.
He was my mate—through ten long years of toil
I loved him well, as man may love a man ;
We fought together, shared the scanty spoil,
And blued it, as the outback wanderers can.
“ Believe in God ? ” Believe he did ! I’ve heard
Him pray (his own way) for a solid hour
When down the creek the mailman brought us
word
That Clancy’s team was bogged with all our
flour.
You’d put above him, “R.1.P.” What rot!
He never fancied any foreign lip ;
He wouldn’t understand that fancy lot;
Put “ Let me ” just before it—“ Let me rip ! ”
VIC.
MATCHBOX.
An Envoy.
It’s a long road home through the bush and up
the river,
Past the gray grassed flats, where the plovers
faintly call,
O’er the downland, the brown land, where lonely
tussocks shiver,
And round by the cutting at the old stone wall.
It’s a long road home, our feet are very weary ;
The sad day dims to a star-blank sky ;
The hill-tracks are sore, and the river-track is
dreary,
Where the waves go down with a shudder and a
sigh.
It’s ten long miles till we reach the home planta-
tion,
And the dust lies deep, and the niglit grows
■ black ;
But we’ll soon see lights in the windows at the
station,
And we know that for us they are watching down
the track.
But the road lags long, we are making heavy
going—
For the dips jolt sharply, and the stones strike
hard,
And it’s ten long miles till we meet the creek
a-flowing,
And hear the horses whinny in the homestead-
yard.
M.L.
ERNEST CURRIE.


SUNLIGHT
SOAP
IS ‘REALLY
THE CHEAPEST
IN THE END.
Linens, Cottons and Woollens are soon reduced
to holes when washed with ordinary soap contain-
ing alkali in a free state.
SUNLIGHT SOAP does not contain any alkali
in a free state and is really the cheapest in the
end, as all articles washed with it last much
longer than if washed with ordinary soap.
A\*y,
a < =
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCHES.
Specially Manufactured to stand hard riding
and knocking about. WILL WEAR A LIFETIME.
p ft
Gent’s. Full Size.
Ladies’ Full Size.
' Strong, Reliable Cases.
Silver Hunting Keyless, from 45/-
10c. Gold „ „ „ £7/10/-
14c. Gold „ „ „ £lO/-/-
18a Gold „ „ „ £l4/-/-
Jewellers & Opticians I
90 King ST, Sydney, j
Richly Engraved Cases.
Silver Hunting Keyless, from 55/-
10c. Gold „ „ „ £5/10/-
14c. Gold ~ „ „ £6/15/-
18c. Gold „ „ „ £B/10/-
VW~POST FREE.
IS W~Send for Catalogue.
l/l\S
We keep them in order for 3 years (breakages
excepted), and guarantee them for 25 years.
Accurately Adjusted Timekeepers.
O'T
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d Posted Bd.
try orders.
Tails. Pla x±
sdfsd
FRINGES, Best Natural Curly Hair, 3/6, 5/6,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each. TAILS' and PLATTS,
20in. long, 5/6, ; Extra Thick, 7/6 ; 24in.,
10/6; Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz.
Don’t be misled. Our Plaits and Tails are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address’’:— W. H. WIGZELL,
110 WILLIAM-ST., Comer of Palmer-st.,
Sydney. Cable trams will stop at door. All
work guaranteed Illustrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention given to coun-
Wigs made on shortest notice.
RHEUMALGIA
rrhe new cure for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Gout, Sciatica,
A Neuralgia, and similar ailments
IS
a lotion compounded from herbs
PURELY AUSTRALIAN.
3S. 6d. POST FREE.
Rheumalgia Remedy Co., Bathurst,
Wholesale depot for N.S.W. and Q.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
Brandy
disarms
Influenza
of
all
its
Dangerous
After
Effects.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
CD
c
\
V
(<
Green-Apple Wisdom.
THE accumulated wisdom of this generation can’t keep a boy from eating green apples.
You can talk to him till you are tired, but it will do no good. He simply can’t learn from
anything but hard, pit-of-the-stomach experience: He must have his own belly-ache before he
will believe what you tell him.
Now, men are simply boys grown up. It isn’t green apples any longer, but it’s the same
old comedy with new properties. It's the question, perhaps, of roofs. It’s the old chimera of
getting value, of getting full return for honest investment. There are plenty of cheap Roofs.
“ The Woods are full of them."
In the Full Light of Experience.
"When the Pan-American Exposition opened at Buffalo,
•P & B Ruberoid Roofing was on eleven buildings, including the
United States Government Building, on which upwards of
20,000 square yards were used. They are constantly having
trouble with the cheaper Roofings. These are being torn off in
many instances, and Ruberoid substituted.
“Arthur W. Trench.
“New York, U.S.A., July 19th, 1901.”
Why not use the green-apple common sense that you learned as a boy, and invest in a
Ruberoid Roof ? When 75 per cent, of the users of Ruberoid Roofing send us repeat orders, it
ought to mean something to you. How about a trial order ?
AGENTS - - - E. RICH & CO., LTD., Irisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a "Newspaper.
Vol. 23.—N0. 1153.
SATURDAY, MARCH 22, 1902.
Price 6d.
/-l Q^e S tfd
'To%fc 0 f ‘C C (a>r\/?p
Metropolitan Board of Wat£i\
n/ n£d { 1^ lot4c > y
y Sy ISterne
IJ o~
SuWr bcuj
CftK^h
You are hereby notified that in consequents of the
drought it necessdry that the economy
exercised in the of water / While no fearAs felt of an te
shortage, still t.he\torage supply has a liiu/t, and the of
yourself and other co%tmers isjasked by the/Board in aveytfrfg what, may
be a serious contingency if ,he supply j 3 not as
possible, J sy
The which his been ei/teredMjrfo with
you for supply bW a 3ter is, of cour»£ the provisions
of the Metropolitan alld Acts, and Section 50 of the
Principal Act enacts thatMlie Boards shall not he liabletosupplywater
if the wants of such supply arises frqm
unavoidable cause.
The Board you of the present
unusual drp*tg%--frtfe’ use/rfwater lawns
at your ppxltfses, muj/ until furfh/r notice, from this
date.%cfthe consiimptionXf must, so far as%JW\be confined
by you to domestic purposes onl/
The -egre% that flie necessity lor this non,ice has
, the comroop/good, urhfortunaltely, demands that such a notice
generally/wen, at% t J enforce economy in ihe use of water, the
will, if off the supply of any persons who may be found to
be lising/vaterfor //ivate/gar/lens or lawns by hose or stand-pipe, or in
any otHfer nialnner/so as/to /unduly draw upon the supply. The Board,
however, fe/s oWntidenU th U, you, and all consumers, recognising the
pressing’ne/ssif/todoi, Jf\\ use every effort to preserve the supply of
water aga/ist uxejjar (Consumption which can possibly be avoided.
By Order of the Board,
WILLIAM HOLMES
Secretary.
Board O/ffce,
oil Pitt Street, Sydney,
14th March, 1902.
flr 5 H,IXs
ft yt
ljousC for j)Cr
Cry- C o< y (Lcoiyoyxj
°f rf)C ybcitglr Su(d/jlm
, <To
Suggested punishment for jake qarrard
Wiih apalocjin ft atjcw)/ tyfljolojzy -J
TUte- (jsm up ft 1715 chu ] it) a ffarcuje- o\
cool iVater anti j;e siooptl'o
dmjK suddenly “Cur <spf Supply.
A j)oc i/iyeyh
vfy
THOUGHTS ABOUT SYDNEY WATER FAMINE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the A astralianB.’ >
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 P 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0
Quarterly ... ... ••• 0 6 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia ,
Westralia and Ataoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
PI, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of 1 \d. postage, the subscription
to Tub Bulletin to Queensland ivill be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage — lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight — now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of Tiie Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paner are copyright by the
publishers. The right to repro luce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Made and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-draum —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. — L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa. — ll. A. Thompson and Co., 8 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency,
Bhodesia.
J^e'^xxlleixM.
SATURDAY, MARCH 22, 1902.
The Narrow Escape of Philp.
When the Philp Government’s cardinal
doctrines of nigger importation, plural voting
and general Tory badness were absolutely
routed at the Federal elections by the
people of Queensland, voting for the first
time without shackles, Mr. Philp announced
that he would appeal from that decision to
the mandate of the country at a general elec-
tion. A constitutionally-minded Premier
would have resigned at once, rather than con-
tinue to pretend to represent a people which
was wholly out of sympathy with his policy.
But, true to the traditions of the Continuous
Government—the traditions which make it
the one object of a Government to be con-
tinuous, at any sacrifice of political principle
and administrative honor—Mr. Piiilp decided
that the clear vote of the Queensland
people, damning him and most of his works,
was not to be seriously regarded. An
appeal from the decision must be made
by a general election. This was a
notably valorous decision. By the tactics
of the Continuous Government, a general
election in Queensland means, ordinarily, an
appeal to about one-third of the adult male
population. Through the special efforts of
the Philp Administration during the inter-
val between the Federal elections and the
appeal to the State franchise-holders, the
enfranchised were reduced to perhaps one-
fourth of the community—a fourth com-
prising all the moneyed and propertied
classes, whose selfishness leads them to favor
slave-holding, a reckless loan policy, an
equally reckless land alienation policy, and
the huckstering of railway concessions ; and
not only comprising these, but endowing
most of them with several votes ; and,
beyond these, admitting as few as possible
of the working population of the State. Mr.
Philp’s appeal was, therefore, from the
People, who spoke so unhesitatingly at
the Federal elections, to a fraction of
the people, the residuum of' property-
owners and workers left after an ex-
haustive process of roll - manipulation.
The best of care was taken that Property
should have its fullrepresentation—Property,
fat-headed, blind, eagerly grasping at its
penny of dividend to-day though everlasting
smash should result on the morrow. And
equally good care was taken that all the
tricks which could suggest themselves to a
shameless Administration, fighting in its last
ditch, should be availed of to disfranchise the
working population, by dismissing workmen
and forcing them out of the districts for
which they were qualified, and by sneaking
names off the rolls on all sorts of pretexts.
Pride’s Purge of the English Commons
found an equally drastic counterpart in
Philp’s purge of the Queensland rolls.
* m * *
So to one-fourth of the people of Queens-
land was the appeal made. But even to
that remnant was not given the opportunity
of a free and unfettered decision between
“ Philp ” and “ No-Philp.” The issue.was
not whether that radically reckless political
pilot should continue to run the ship of State
towards the rocks, or be replaced by a compe-
tent man ; but whether he should be dispos-
sessed of the tiller for it to be handed over to
the Labor party. Now the Queensland Labor
party has not yet out-lived its past. A few
years ago it bore blazoned on its banners the
motto of “Socialism in our Time.” In those
days it posed as the party of raw haste and
revolution, and the bulk of the people, who
had no more idea of the meaning of social-
ism than of the differential calculus, but who
had been told by somebody that it was some-
thing dreadful, grew alarmed. If the party
leaders honestly believed in the feasibility of
“ Socialism in our Time,” they were foolish
to say so, for “socialism” is still a bogey
word to the timorous. The Queensland
Labor Members earned for themselves in
these early days the reputation of being
visionaries and impracticable dreamers. Now-
adays, they have dropped that foolishness,
but its effects still entangle their footsteps
and in the eyes of many Queenslanders, who
are profoundly tired of Philp, the alterna-
tive to Philp, a Labor Ministry, is still
supposed to be a Socialism-in-Our-Time
Ministry. At the Federal elections this
consideration did not enter into the issue.
Voting for a Labor or Opposition candidate
then did not involve voting for a Socialism-
in-Our-Time Ministry ; it only meant voting
for an opponent of the Continuous Govern-
ment, and more than three-fourths of the
people voted that way with great joy, and
passed such a censure on Philp as no
other Australian Premier has ever faced and
lived. But at the State elections very many
anti-Philpites voted Philp simply because,
in their minds, he was a shade less dis-
agreeable than a Ministry which might want
to confiscate all property, and generally
break things up.
* • * *
Another consideration, it must be con-
fessed with shame, that helped Philp in his
appeal to one-fourth of the people of Queens-
land, was that the Labor Opposition committed
the political mistake of propounding a policy
of honorable and honest meeting of public
obligations. This is a mistake which, so
far, no other Labor party in Australia has
been guilty of. The NS. W. Labor party,
for instance, whilst ever ready to cry out for
old-age pensions and a minimum wage, has
so far shown no anxiety as to the securing of
these boons by honestly raising the money
to pay for them. The fact that the Queens-
land Labor party made this “practical ”
mistake does more than anything else to con-
vince The Bulletin that the old Socialism-
in-Our-Time vision is decisively a thing of the
past, and that as a party it is better equipped
than any other Australian political organisa-
tion to take up and honorably bear the bur-
den of office. A party which is straight in
■ its declarations for financial honesty, which
puts on its platform increases of taxation
affecting incomes, land, and absentees, and
demands a solution of the State’s money
difficulties, not through further borrowing,
but through the safe and sound conservative
expedient of raising enough revenue to meet
all legitimate demands, is as Manna in the
Desert. But such a party cannot expect to
find a warm welcome awaiting its pro-
gramme ; there is a deep-seated objection
on the part of the average Australian tax-
payer to any scheme suggesting that he
should pay his own way. Undoubtedly, its
conservative ideas of finance, as opposed to
the rash experimentalism of Philp, who is
prepared to let things drift, and trust to
avert bankruptcy by a miracle, stood in the
light of the Queensland Labor party when it
took the field against Philp.
* ♦ * *
The issue, therefore, was not an appeal to
the people as to the merits of Philp ; it was
an appeal to only one-fourth of the people ;
and the verdict was confused by the fact that
the Labor party was burdened with the folly
of the past and the honesty of the present.
Yet, withal, the Philp Government comes
out of the contest barely holding its own.
Brisbane, with its mass of plural voters,
declared in its favor. The black section of
the North, where the slave-owning interest
is strong, and where the white workers have
been most consistently purged off the
rolls, also favored Philp and his mis
deeds. The Central Province declared em-
phatically against him. The net result in
figures is that, whereas in the last Parliament
Philp could claim 43 supporters out of 72, he
can now claim, even including the uncertain
“ Ministerial Independents,” only 42,and his
30 opponents are made up of 24 Labor mem-
bers and six Independent Oppositionists,
whereas before there were only 21 Labor mem-
bers. The growth of the Labor party from 21
to 24 is, after all, the most significant feature
of the election, for it is the Labor party
which is the real and implacable opponent
of Philpism ; and whilst this party has lost
one or two valuable members it has gained
others of at least equal value, such as Kenna,
returned by a 2 to 1 majority over Annear
at Bowen.
* V * *
Mr. Philp, in fine, is left still with the
right to hold office dishonorably, but with
no more warrant from the people than he
had last year. There is overwhelming evi-
dence that a fair appeal to the manhood of
the State would have driven him from power,
and that even with an electoral system which
represents property more than manhood, his
grip on office is precarious. It is clear that
the propertied classes are awaking to a
sense of the disastrous nature of the Philp
policy, and that, with a little more experience
thereof, they will be ready to hurl the Con-
tinuous Government from office, even at the
price of installing in power a Labor party.
The Queensland Premier is not likely to
admit these facts. It is part of the political
game that he should conceal his dismay by
effusive shouts of pretended exultation.
But even his thick-and-thin press-supporter,
the Courier, can only give him as specious
comfort the assurance—
If the State Government had carried everything before
it. and found its majority [sic] standing at 50 and over,
instead of at 42, there would have been serious cause for
apprehension. Too great a majority insures disruption
as a rule, and Mr. Philp may well have prayed for more
moderate success.
The “moderate success” of just having
avoided disaster, after taking such steps as
would have assured an overwhelming victory
if his own following in the country had been
loyal to him, Mr. Philp is welcome to. The
Labor party has the more solid comfort of
having fought an election on honorable and
honest lines, of having advanced nearer to
the control of things in spite of the mon-
strous chicanery and political dishonesty of
its opponents, and of knowing that the
government of the State is now ripe to fall
into its hands. That assurance should both
encourage and steady it in Opposition, for it
is on the Opposition benches during the
forthcoming session that it will be finally
called upon to justify its claims to govern-
ment.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The War.
At the end of last week the situation in South
Africa looked gloomy again, and the dream of
finishing off the war in time for the Coronation of
Edward YII seemed further from realisation than
it did three months ago. Once more the news
comes that the Afrikanders hold all the
Transvaal north of the Delagoa Bay railway
line —about three - fourths of the Transvaal,
and are raising crops there. Ketchener’s
great “ drive,” after many cablegrams about the
tremendous fighting, and the hail of bullets, and
the deafening roar of battle, produced only mode-
rate results. There were losses on both sides, but,
on the whole, Ketchener seems to have lost
almost as heavily as his opponents. Botha,
Steyn, De Wet, De la Rey— all the props of the
Dutch defence—either were never enclosed at all,
or leaked through, or broke through. The Maori-
landers’ alleged victory during this episode appears
to have been little short of a disaster. Since then
Yon Donop has been defeated, and Methuen
defeated and captured, and these two shocks fell
on the British Army just when it began to appear
almost as if the back of the resistance of the Far-
mers’ army was broken. In all the later engage-
ments the Boers abandoned the defensive tactics
which distinguished them in the early part of the
war, and rushed to close quarters with a reckless
courage which swept all before it. And in the
British House of Commons statements like these
begin to appear again:—
Mr. St. John Brodrick, in the House of Commons, con-
fessed that he had been unduly sanguine in his estimates
of the Boers in the field.
Query: Was the British Intelligence Depart-
ment a failure from the beginning ? Or is it a
failure now—in other words, did an incompetent
Government under-estimate its enemy at the
beginning, or does it now over-estimate him ? Or
is he more numerous now than he ought to be
because Ketchener’s weekly “bag” is not
what it professes to be ? The block-house
policy appears to be more or less of a failure.
Of the British army it is alleged that GO, 000 are
occupied by departmental work —-hospital, office,
commissariat, etc.; that 30,000 are sick; that GO,OOO
are 'employed guarding railways; 60,000 as gar-
risons ; about 20,000 employed as railway officials
—and about 20,000 actually in the field. That is
how an army trickles away when it advances
through a hostile country. It must keep its com-
munications open with its base on the coast. If it
doesn’t it will certainly starve, and as it moves for-
ward it must leave men behind every mile until it
has no more left. If the Salisbury-Chamberlain
Government hadn’t gone the whole stupendous
hog and demanded the unconditional surrender
of the entire country the war might have been ended
by now. But it pledged itself, in its blind
and cocky self-assurance, to steal everything,
and now it must steal everything or
admit itself a failure. Half of the entire
Boer territories are still in Boer hands, and even
the half that is nominally in British hands is per-
vaded by scattered Boer forces which take a long
time to wipe out. Apparently, barring some
streak of luck in the shape of the death or cap-
ture of the leading Boer generals, the war may go
on for another two years. .Recruits are hard to
get in Britain now—the supply in 1901 was far
below that of 1900. Horses are none too plenti-
ful. The British cavalry horse is expected to
carry the frightful load of 19st.—man and frills
all included—and he dies off fast. On the con-
tinent of Europe horses suitable for cavalry, work
are all earmarked for Government use, and can’t
be exported. The Australian supply of the kind
of animals required is very small, and the Argen-
tine horse is a swift weed which can’t bear the
load; he carries the South American cavalry man
well enough, but he is a light weight and lightly
equipped. The kaleidoscope may change very sud-
denly again, but just now it looks as if the long-
drawn-out war had taken a fresh lease of life and
was good for a considerable time again.
A Very Great Idea.
The total coal output from the Maoriland mines
for 1900 was 1,093,990 tons, an increase of 118,750
tons on the previous year. For the same year the
imports were 124,033, an increase of 24,378 tons
on. the previous year. Most of the imported coal
is from Newcastle (N.S.W.), and the importation
is apparently due to the action of the associated
collieries fixing a minimum price for big quanti-
ties by contract, and another and higher minimum
for retail distribution. Premier Seddon deplores
the increase in importation, and has declared his
intention to make it unnecessary—he proposes to
limit the profits of the private companies by fixing
a legal maximum price. Also, he intends to start
State mines and undersell the private blood-
sucker. The Point Elizabeth mine, near the Grey
River, Westland, is to start at once. It was held
by a co. which commenced to build a railway to,
connect it with the Government line, but was.
unable to raise funds to carry on. The Govern-
ment declared the concession cancelled, and Inis,,
taken over the mine and the unfinished line andi;
all the plant for £21,000. The Brunner colliery
is also in the hands of the receiver, and wiHpro-
bably be taken over by Bun Tuck Seddon’s .
State Coal Mining and Distributing Depart-
ment shortly. Seddon reckons that £40,0001
will set both mines going. But at Ngahere
(West Coast) last month the Premiers flew off
at a tangent. He declared that the time was.
not far distant when he would see that Maori-
land would supply coal only for use in the State •
and for Imperial purposes, such as the coaling of
British warships and vessels carrying the British,
flag. The beastly foreigner will have to hump,
sufficient coal from Newcastle, or elsewhere, to.
carry him back to the miserable land where he was.
whelped. Up to date this is Seddon’s champion,
effort in the Jingo line, and beside it cohentin-
gents, preferential tariffs, and other fatuous,
devices fade into dim and paltry insignificance:.
Such an idea, if carried out, deserves not a duke-
dom but a whole princedom, but its reward! is
more likely to be an anguished cablegram from
the British authorities to the Admiral on the
station : “ Put Bun Tuck in an asylum.”
———-♦
A Letter from an Unbeliever.
Dear Bulletin.—All this rat-hunting and rub-
bish-burning and lime-wasting and sewer-raking
for the alleged purpose of ridding the land of the
plague and the rats is, after all, only another
proof of the Atheistic tendencies of the present
generation. The folks who recommend disinfec-
tants are servants of the ©evil, and assuredly
going headlong to the Pit. Likewise, the parson
or priest who buys a rat-trap or carbolic instead
of investing his whole energy in prayer, is a half-
and-half sort of believer, and stands exposed as a.
whited sepulchre of the deepest Apropos ,.
here is an extract from “Di Vasari,” in “Tales,
from Blackwood,” vol. 8, re the plague in Flor-
ence, 1343: —
And a circumstance which still more attracted notice?
—the rats, both in the houses of Florence and in the
farms in the neighboring villages, multiplied with such,
rapidity, and to such an excess, that all temporal
remedies being found unavailing, it was sought to have
recourse to the aid of the Church, and formally to excom-
municate them.
The success of this extraordinary measure, or how
far it operated, does not appear; but the fact of
its being applied is distinctly stated in all the
chronicles of the time.
Notice was formally read in open church against the
rats ; that, unless they withdrew from all houses, wheat
stacks, barns or granaries, in Florence and the vicinity,
within four days from the date of these presents, process
of “deprivation” would be issued against them.
And a curious feature in the simple faith of the
time was, that
The officer of the Spiritual Court, appointed to main-
tain the interests of all “ non-appearing defendants,”'
interfered for the rats, and obtained leave to “ enlarge-
the rule ” for their departure, from four days to six, on.
the ground that the cats of the city, knowing of the.
order, would be upon the watch to intercept them.
Though all the chronicles of the time tell of the
application of the anti - rat measure, the actual
result is unfortunately not set down. But ‘a little
thing like that doesn’t affect tho question. Un-
less the arm of the church is admittedly less
powerful now than it was believed to be some
500 years ago, the clergy should show that their
faith is strong as ever by at least giving the
Florentine methods a trial. For how may a
church maintain its prestige among humans if its
power over rats has waned ? The community that
professes to follow the church is hereby called
upon to sack its numerous Greswells im-
mediately and invest his salary in sackcloth and
potsherds. Let us have more of the faith of our
fathers and less of this scientific foolishness. —
Yours, J.D.
♦
More “ Consulting* of the Wishes of the
Colonies.”
Again Australia comes in as a handy excuse for
Britain’s policy of annexation in South Africa.
Australia serves many dirty and doormat pur-
poses these times. It supplies contingents, to a
certain extent. It enables Joseph Chamberlain
and Co. to pose as enlightened statesmen and the
authors of a broad Imperial policy, and their
statements that in future the wishes and opinions
of “the Colonies” must be consulted, and that
the good opinion of “ our kin beyond the sea ” is
of more account to Britain than that of foreign.
Our Japanese Ally.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Clean men of Britain—worker, bard, and priest—
Why doth our Mother consort with this Beast?
At whom all men the stigma vile hath hurled—
O cheap and nasty Pandar of the World !
About the Earth with slave-held girls he tramps,
From Asia’s colored hells to Austral camps,
Where lust burns madly in its fatal fire—
There grins he, with his prostitutes for hire.
An imitative, babbling little man,
A relative of all the monkey clan,
And crafty, like the Chow at worst, is he
Yet lacking in the Chinese dignity.
This mushroom growth from filth of ages long
Hath bought a ship, and fancies he is strong;
And wishing ’mongst White Men to make a dash
Puts out a brownish hand for England’s cash.
ALONE.


States, has evoked much applause at different
times. Meanwhile Australia is informed by
Chamberlain and Co. that it must not attempt a
straight-out White Australia policy, and that
if it wants to exclude niggers, Chinamen, and
other noxious products it must do it in devious
and underhand ways dictated by Chamberlain.
It is not consulted about the Japanese treaty— a
matter of some real interest to this country. It has
never been allowed any voice re the arrangements
entered into about Samoa or the New Hebrides,
which lie at its door. It isn’t consulted about the
annexation policy in South Africa. It only hears
by a cabled report of a statement made in the
Japanese Parliament that negotiations are in pro-
gress to override its Aliens Restriction Act—in
fact, it is not consulted about anything. But the
new bunkum from Birmingham has its advant-
ages. Every dirty, or mean, or foolish thing that
the Salisbury Government has done of late is
declared, by it and its barrackers, to be necessary,
because public opinion in “ the colonies ” would be
shocked if that mean, dirty, or foolish thing wasn’t
done ; and, under Chamberlain’s alleged policy of
consultation, they are made to bear the odium of
them. Australia can’t get its personal interests
attended to, but Britain attends to its own inte-
rests a little harder than before, and says it is
doing so out of a deep regard for public opinion in
“the colonies.” For instance, this is Kipling’s
latest:
Things are going forward well in the country as regards
the war. Our only fear now is the old one—that England,
at the eleventh hour, will declare an amnesty for the
colonial rebels, and thereby let in the men who have been
shooting, burning, and horse-stealing for the last 11 or 12
months to legislate for the loyalists. I am not talking
now of the Transvaalers and the Free Staters, but of the
colonial rebels. So far as one can judge from the almost
inconceivable levity both of Rosebery and 0.-8., the
Liberal party is quite prepared to give them that amnesty.
One gets so weary and so ashamed of one’s motherland
when one leaves it. I do wish you could make some
moderately sane politician (I do not say statesman,
because they seem as dead as the dodo) understand that
this question of amnesty to rebels, which they raise so
light-heartedly, is not only the life or death of the colony,
but will mean, if persisted in, the severest blow to the
colonies’ trust in England (I speak here of Australia,
Canada, etc.) that has ever been administered.
It is time for Australia to ask who gave Kipling
authority to speak for Australia, and to declare
that Australia can only be satisfied by the whole-
sale execution of the Cape Dutchmen, and to
represent Australia as England’s hangman ? Even
if these are this country’s sentiments, it has the
right to express its own sentiments—not have
them furnished ready-made by Kipling. That
bard doesn’t even know Australia except in his
capacity as a one-time globe-trotter who trotted
swiftly through this country in a peaceful period
when there was no war-sentiment for him to
inspect and report on. He is suspected even of
lacking the Englishman’s common virtue of per-
sonal courage, judging by his rush for the
protection of the law when his brother-in-law
threatened him with personal violence—and he
has all the ferocity that distinguishes people
of his class. He is a discordant bellower
of Jingo verse from the rear, a peaceful
person crying out for the blood of braver
men and better patriots than himself, as
others like him called for the blood of William
Wallace and Joan of Arc in former days. And
Kipling doesn’t even take the responsibility of
calling for the brutal suppression of the Afrikan-
ders whose only crime is that they tried to recover
their lost territory; he professes that it is Aus-
tralia which calls. A bill is to be attached to the
feet of each hanged Boer: “THIS MAN WAS
STRANGLED TO PLEASE THE GORY
AUSTRALIAN.” And this is as far as the
alleged policy of “consulting the wishes of ‘the
Colonies’” has got up to time of writing.
-
The Pauper Philp Government.
This, which appeared in last Saturday’s papers, is
Premier Philp of Queensland after he had got
back safely from the general election—before
the election Philp was at least going to raise a
little money by an income-tax to help to reduce
the deficit:—
The Premier views with some concern the proposal of
the Federal Government to strike out the duties on tea,
kerosene, and rice, and also making imports for State
Governments dutiable. . . .
If the proposals were carried out, Mr. George Turner’s
calculations would be upset, and he would probably have
to impose fresh taxation. The Labor party’s attitude
appeared to be an endeavor to force on direct taxation.
In Queensland the people were as heavily taxed as it ivas
possible for them, to stand, and if the revenue of the State
was interfered with, it meant that the Government would
have to enter upon more extensive sales of land.
And why can’t Queensland pay more taxation in
order to make ends meet ? In England the State
taxation is now 525. annually per inhabitant
against Queensland’s 365. or less under the new
Federal tariff ; and in England local taxation is
also heavier than in Queensland. The Queens-
lander pays less taxes than the Frenchman,
Hollander, Italian, Westralian or Maorilander,
and if he isn’t able to pay as much as these people
then there is something wrong with the boast
about the country’s “ stupendous natural re-
sources” and so on. The Queenslander pays
neither land-tax nor income-tax—he is almost
the only white man who doesn’t. His burdens
have been greatly reduced by the abolition of
inter-State customs, and if he is as heavily-taxed
now as he can stand, how on earth did he
get on last year and the year before, when
he was much more heavily taxed ? Also, if he
can’t pay sufficient taxation now to cover his
national outgoings, how does he expect to get on
in years to come when the good lands —which
don’t amount to so very much after all—are all
sold and a large source of income vanishes!
There is nothing to prevent Queensland raising
enough to keep itself solvent except the pitiable
cowardice of Robert Philp and his colleagues.
The Queenslander is neither poorer nor less
courageous nor less capable than the Dutchman,
that the workhouse plea of poverty and incapacity
and want of pluck to face the situation should
always be raised on his behalf. The only trouble
is that, in point of courage, ability, and common
sense, Philp and Co. are only the scum on the
surface of Queensland.
Experimental Legislation.
Queensland, by returning Philp to power,
though vvith a diminished majority, has recorded
its decision to stick to the policy of Experimental
Legislation. The Philp party is accustomed to
describe the Browne party as the party of Ex-
perimental Legislation but that only shows that
the Philp party is a good deal of a liar, as usual.
Labor-leader Browne proposed to make ends meet
by the safe, solid, conservative device of raising
enough revenue to cover the expenditure. He
proposed principally an income-tax, which is a
Bolid old British idea of about a century’s
standing, and a land tax, whieh is a solid
old British idea of many centuries’ standing.
Philp, the wi.d and woolly experimentalist, pro-
poses to scramble along as before by running into
debt, having deficits, soiling land cheap (proceeds
used as revenue) and buying it back dear (purchase
money provided out of loans), purchasing popula-
tion by paying immigrants’ passages out. of
borrowed money, hoping that something
will turn up and trusting to Providence —
all of which is about as experimental as any-
one could ask for. Browne believes in the
subdivision of land into small holdings—a con-
servative policy which was in full force in England
1000 years ago; Philp believes in splashing, it
about anyhow. Browne’s sober, safe, slow-going
principle of one man one vote came down
to him from the Goths of nearly 2000 years
ago; Philp, the politically drunken experi-
mentalist, has new and revolutionary . ideas
about proportioning the vote to the size of
the voter’s family. Browne is opposed to foreign
loans, and wants to get back to the safe and
old-established system, in which civilised states
were conducted from the beginning of civilisation
until a little over a century ago. Philp, the
foreign-loan fiend, is howling down the dizzy
tracks of new financial experiment, and, by
way of being more experimental than any-
body else, lie and his party have got their country
deeper in debt, in proportion to population, than
any other in this world—apparently just to find
out experimentally how far a country can go
before bankruptcy arrives. Queensland has re-
jected the safe and steady-going policy of Browne
for the drunken and dazzling gambles of Philp,
and there is going to be another spell of Experi-
mental Legislation in Queensland. And Philp
isn’t a good experimenter. He doesn’t seem to
know anything about the machine, and is just
fooling with the handle promiscuously.
♦
Sydney’s Water Crisis.
Consequences of Sydney water supply muddle
are developing quickly. Last week it was
announced that, until rain fell, water must not be
used for gardens ; and this was practically a sen-
tence of doom upon the many lovely planted areas
around Sydney, since plants and shrubs find it
difficult to exist through the drought even with
the aid of artificial watering ; also it meant that
the fresh green vegetable will become an unknown
quantity in the city, for tne lettuce plant
and the tomato vine nave only been bolding
out througn copious irrigation. The State
Premier furtner found it necessary to urge
on citizens not to use plunge baths but
to content themselves with the more econo-
mical “shower” of mornings. The whole truth
is not yet known to the public: facts are only
allowed to trickle out, as on Friday when it tran-
spired that, in addition to the other faults of the
supply system, there was a danger of the one and
only reservoir collapsing when the contained
water got too low within its banks. Still it is
plainly evident that the city of Sydney has been
brought right to the edge of calamity by the
imbecility and disnonesty of its rulers. A supply
scheme, badly designed from the outset, has been
deliberately allowed to moulder into almost a
state of ruin through the incapacity or dis-
inclination of those in charge to administer
it under nonest financial conditions. The
present results are neavy loss as occasioned by
the ruin of gardens and plantations, damage
to health through the cessation of street
watering. The future results are comprised
in the unknown possibilities of the plague
if it and a water famine were to be in the
city simultaneously. Premier See appears pre-
pared to take vigorous measures in the matter,
and so far as concerns the vigour that is
something to his credit. But there is no
suggestion that any serious attempt has been
made to find out why the Sydney water
system was allowed to run down to the present
extent before the public became aware of its
mouldered condition. There is also nothing said
about the almost insolvent Water and Sewerage
Board collecting a high enough rate in future to
enable it to pay its way, keep its works in
thorough repair and improve, and extend them as
required, and gradually write off its debts.
The Government apparently “recognises the
grave nature of the crisis” so far that it
will manfully apply any borrowed money
that may be necessary to put things straight.
It sees that the present isn’t a time to con-
sider cost too clearly—and so on. But N.S.W.
is striking about two crises a year now—plague
crises, war crises, water famine crises, crises when
it is necessary to resume a lot of property and use
the rents as revenue, and pay the interest on
purchase money out of loans—and so on. Almost
every day the Government is rising to a fresh
emergency, and it rises with loan funds every
time. The country wants more foresight and less
crisis.
•+
Crime in Ireland.
The periodical outbreak Oi cablegrams about
“Crime in Ireland ” has again begun to decorate
the Australian press, and large scare-heads con-
cerning an alleged “Upas Tree” and about the
need of severe repressive measures, become
frequent. This sort of thing is so customary that
most people acquire a shadowy, but permanent,
idea that Ireland is a place where crime
is rampant, and where strong measures of
an extra character are required, and the
fact that Ireland is far less criminal than
Scotland, and is just on the same level as England
and Wales, is quite outside the ordinary person’s
knowledge. In 1899 (the latest year for which the
Statesman’s Year Book gives separate figures)
Scotland produced 1785 criminals of sufficient
status to be sentenced in the higher courts, against
Ireland’s 1329. Yet the populations were then
practically equal. And this difference isn’t a
casual result brought about by reoressive laws ; it
exists all the time The point of difference
is that the little Irish crime which exists is to
a great extent a protest against the absentee land-
lord who drains the country of its wealth and
keeps it in perpetual poverty, and the sin of
objecting to the absentee landlord is loathsome
and unpardonable in the eyes of the Landlord
Government in London. So special repressive
laws are made against the most law-abiding section
of the British community, and the “ Outbreak of
Crime in Ireland ” when a man is injured in a
scuffle arising over a land-dispute, glares in big
headings in the papers all over the British empire.
In England a dozen men may be murdered m as
many rows over a sordid pot of beer, or may kick
their wives to death, without any mention of an
“Outbreak of Crime.”
White Australia.
Premier Barton supplies the information that
since the passing of our Immigration Restriction
Act, 103 colored immigrants have applied for
admission under the new law (this is irrespective
of 282 who held permits issued before the Act came
into operation), and as the Barton Government
administered the law, seventy, or more than two-
thirds, got in. And The Bulletin has no hesita-
tion in saying that that fact is a disgrace to the
Barton Government, and looks unpleasantly like
premeditated treachery to the White Australia
ideal. The law itself is comprehensive enough to
block anybody if the Ministry only desires
to block him. There is no compulsion
to apply the law to the Desirable Immi-
grant, but the Undesirable Immigrant can
be confronted with a test in any European
language, from English to Greek, Basque, or
Gaelic, if the Ministry is really anxious to keep
out the Undesirable. The law will admit
everybody or keep out everybody according to
how it is applied—it would even keep out Joseph
Chamberlain if the Ministry intended keeping
Joseph out, unless that potentate proved to be
stronger in his Basque than was expected. This
was the only law which Australia could get (direct
exclusion was proposed, but the great Nigger
Empire of Britain got in the way), and in the
hands of any Ministry which hasn’t turned traitor
to White Australia it is the best law on earth.
Even a law directly excluding every black, brown
and yellow person in existence wouldn’t answer so
well as this one would if honestly used, for the
Australian Act can be employed at any time to
shut out undesirable white men whom such a
statute would not reach. Its weak point is that,
in the hands of a servile or treacherous Govern-
ment, or a lazy Government which leaves things
too much to indifferent or corruptible subordin-
ates, it is useless; therefore, it is the business of
Parliament to keep the Ministry and its subor-
dinates up to the mark. The reason why
two-thirds of the undesirable niggers who
have so far battered at Australia’s door
found ready admission was that the Ministry
ordered them, or allowed them, to be tested in the
only language in which there was a, fair pro-
bability that they would prove proficient. Also
there is reason to believe that they were tested in
some of the simplest and easiest passages in the
literature of that language, and that the most
rudimentary attempt to struggle with these pas-
sages was held to be a passing of the examination
within the meaning of the Act. The law isn’t
responsible for these things, but the Ministry,
which apparently administers the law, or allows
it to be administered, from a Black Australia
point of view, certainly is.
O’Sullivan’s Doss-House.
Varney Parkes’s big Government doss-house on
Sydney Rocks is to be many storeys high and is
to accommodate 4000 people. Therefore, 125 of
these buildings would more than accommodate all
Sydney. The reason assigned for huddling 4000
people in one heap in this land of stupendous
spaces and distances is that the Government wants
to re-house, on the same space, the population
which will be turned out when the present
rookeries are pulled down, and as the widening of
the streets will leave less ground space it is neces-
sary to build upwards in order toget thesamepeople
into the same area. It is also statea that m London
the idea, when a slum is destroyed, is always to
re-house the people on the same area. That is
true, but it nas no bearing on the case.
If you destroy a London slum and build
a new suburb to accommodate the people it is pro-
bably necessary to go 20 miles to find space for a
new suburb, and that is an impossible distance.
But there is space within two or three miles of
the Rocks, and it is too soon in little, obscure
Sydney to talk about any necessity for congesting
the people into O’Sullivan’s sky-towering dog-
boxes. If Sydney had a railway station in the
centre of the city, with lines spreading out to
every suburb, and cheap trains, there would be no
need for the swollen dog-box policy. And Sydney
could have that railway system if it trod under-
foot the absurd See-O’Sullivan idea of building a
new terminus among, dead men’s bones U miles
from the city. And it could have cheap trains —it
could cut down fares one-half—if it built its rail-
ways out of revenue instead of out of borrowed
money, and wasn’t always staggering under the
absurd interest bill. And it could build its rail-
ways out of revenue just as easily as out of loans
if it would only realise that it is as simple to pay
£2,000,000 a year towards building public works
as to pay £2,000,000 a year interest on the money
borrowed to build public works. It is the loan
policy which makes railway fares high. And it is
because railway fares are high that the city worker
can’t afford to live out in the suburbs. And it is
because he can’t afford to live in the suburbs that
O’Sullivan is going to build his monstrous dog-
box, and pile the workers on top of each other
like sardines.
Victorian Chief Justice Madden is liable to
sharp, if only fitful, attacks of common-sense. At
Horsham the other day, passing sentence on two
youths found guilty of familiar wickedness, the
waxed man let out in defence of the rights of his
sex. The girl was proved to be not only a con-
senting party, but she actually sent out invita-
tions. .“ The whole blame for what has occurred
rests with an abnormally depraved girl, ” said the
0. J. Prisoners were sentenced to three months
apiece, but the sentence was suspended. ‘ ‘ The
present case,” said His Honor, “was typical of
the great majority of cases brought under this law
in which the girls were a constant source of danger
to the community.” Apparently there is some
public awakening to the possibilities of the
feminine character during the guileless years
between 10 and 16.
A Man and a Brother on the inequality of the
sexes :
The story of the Towitta (S. A.) murder and the subse-
quent trial and acquittal of Mary Schippan is another
solemn warning to those “ strong ’’-minded females who
claim political and social equality for the sexes. Mary
Schippan, in the eyes of the advanced sisterhood, is a
victim of Man’s injustice to Woman. In common with
the rest of her sex all the world ovdr, Mary, having been
born to wear skirts instead of trousers, is denied a long
list of Rights, and subjected to the same number of
Wrongs. A few weeks ago Mary Schippan was charged
with the gory murder of her sister, Bertha, and then she
became the central figure in a series of living pictures of
sex inequality. Men took her away to prison, men
worked up the case against her, men in wigs conducted
the trial of the downtrodden spinster; twelve jurymen
were empannelled to decide the doubt as to her guilt or
innocence, and the demonstrations of the local populace
were practically controlled by the sex which denies every
poor, weak woman the rights which civilisation demands
for her. By the arguments of all ardent suffragists Mary
Sqiiippan was most unfairly placed. Therefore, seeing that
after the jury found her not guilty, Miss Mary “ drove
away in a cab through the avenue formed by the tre-
mendous crowds who cheered again and again,” whereas
Mary’s lover had been maltreated by male members of
the same mob, merely because he told the truth about
the girl and himself—and the truth amounted to a sug-
gestion of motive for the ghastly crime alleged against
Mary— therefore it seems possible for a disbeliever in
Woman’s Rights and Wrongs to wonder whether the mob
at Adelaide would have cheered and groaned as they did
had Mary Schippan been a man of 20 and her lover,
Gustave Nitsciikb, a girl of pleasing appearance. In all
provincial murder cases the guilt of a male prisoner
seems to be taken for granted by the local populaee, pro-
vided the evidence against him is reasonably strong.
Put a prepossessing girl in the same position, and the
loophole of escape is stretched as wide as possible, and
the crowd inside and outside the court cheers vociferously
at the result of the trial. Mary Schippan has emerged
from the Towitta murder case with something very like
a halo round her head. It now remains for the police to
arrest the unknown man who wrestled with Mary for 10
minutes (what time her sister Bertha lay quietly waiting
for the murder to commence), and, when the man is
brought to trial, the inequality of the sexes will be
further emphasised
♦
Thb Federal Government has renewed the con-
tract with Borns, Philp and Co. for carrying
mails to the New Hebrides, and has also entered
into some kind of a land-deal under the auspices
of that co., the object of which seems to be “to
promote British as opposed to French interests ”
m the islands. Details provided are of a con-
fusing nature, but it seems that the Federal
Government, in return for its subsidy, is to get all
the land possessions of Burns, Philp and Co. in
the New Hebrides, to hold them as trustee, and
to encourage British settlers to go on the land for
the greater profit and glory of Burns, Philp and
Co. (whose trade will improve as population in-
creases) and of the Empire. Not the least fault
of Premier Barton’s administration is its
taste for a kind of pinchbeck Imperialism. It
took over New Guinea with a light heart and a
high-sounding phrase about an Australian Monroe
doctrine. Now it undertakes to pay to.encourage
British settlement in the New Hebrides, with a
view to ousting France fro 1 the group, and with
more Monroe doctrine in its eye. The settlers
are presumably to come from Australia, a conti-
nent which has so'far made little progress. at
settling itself, either by natural increase or by im-
migration, and which can’t afford a single citizen
from its own thin population. And when Aus-
tralia has paid a blood-tax on behalf of British in-
terests in the New Hebrides, as like as not the
group will be handed over to France (as was Samoa
toGermany), to placate that country when England
is in trouble. What is badly wanted in this con-
tinent is not a Monroe doctrine, but a common-
sense doctrine, that Australia had better mind its
own business, try and pay its own debts, cultivate
its own lands, and leave other countries to them-
selves.
♦ r-
Hon. Jimmy Balfour, M.L.C., an ex-land-boomer
who looks as though Providence meant him to sit
for a picture of the Pharisee in the parable, had
the holy audacity to bring along a deputation to
the Yic. Minister of Railways t’other day, and
ask for the abolition of Sunday trains. Abolition,
it seems, is Balfour’s fondest hope, but if he
cannot get the Sabbath traffic squelclied entirely,
he will approve of restrictive measures. At
present the Railway Dept, issues cheap excursion
tickets on Sundays, and these are “hurtful and
iniquitous” in the sight of Balfour. He suggests,
firstly, an ordinary everyday price for the Sabbath
desecration ticket; and, secondly, an increase—
O ! a blessed increase—in the prices of periodical
tickets to such as desire to use ’em on Sunday.
All things considered, it was surprising that
Trenwith, the departmental figurehead, did not
hurl a few moral truths at the sanctimonious old
ally of Matthew Davies & Co. The boom which
Balfour helped to engineer did more damage
to public morality than all the Sunday
trains that ever were run. Victorians, as
a rule, are cursed with short memories, other-
wise 'they might detect some cause for alarm
in this Balfourian shepherding of the Sunday
School Union and the Christian Citizens Alliance.
When Christian Citizens begin to violently adver-
tise themselves one must be prepared to receive
the prospectus of a new Sabbath Observance
Building Society, or an Earnest Endeavour Bank,
Limited.
4.
Bitter cry from the ill-spelled Sydney Watch-
man (“ Protestant Defence ” organ):—
That The Bulletin really credits the stories of British
atrocities it publishes, no one for a moment believes, and
it is not worth our while to discuss the matter, but we
must point out that humanity and justice are the logical
productions of Christianity, and not of that ghoulish
spirit which seeks the evil in every man and distrusts the
good.
And when did the ghoulish spirit in Parson Dill
seek to find anything good in (say) Cardinal
Moran, or the Pope, or the Irish National party,
or in any of the 250,000,000 R.C. population of the
world ? The uncharitable preacher who can’t see
any good in 250,000,000 people is certainly not
one of the products of Christianity—what
or who he may be the product of isn’t worth
discussing till the weather gets cooler, and the
tail of his possible ancestor isn’t so sultry to
handle. When a British army, which is
partly Roman Catholic, is at war with the
strictly Protestant Boer, what does Parson Dill
expect but atrocities ? Does Parson Dill regard
it as consonant with his principles to hold that
the Catholic element in the British army must
needs be kind and forbearing to the Protestant
Boer, because Catholics are built that way ; and
that the Boer must be in the wrong because Pro-
testants are naturally so constructed ? As for the'
“ British atrocities ” which The Bulletin pub-
lishes, they are all from British sources, and if
the mostly Protestant Government of Britain has
been telling lies about the death-rate in its con-
centration camps, and the farm-burnings, and the
executions, what is the good of being a Protestant
Government ?
“ Kiwi ” from Seddonland :
About the ugliest fact in connection with Maoriland’s
share in the capitalistic shambles business in South Africa
is the canting blasphemy of so-called ministers of religion.
Never a religious gathering opens here without prayers
“for the speedy triumph of British arms” and “the
kingdom of God on earth ” and all the usual humbug.
Never a protest against the cowardly slanders on
a brave enemy, nor a rebuke to the intolerant
bigots who yell “ Pro-Boer” at everyone who refuses to
lick the dust off the boots of Chamberlain, Rhodes, Beit,
and the rest of the pack. About the most rabid Jingoes
of the lot are the unctuous Wesleyans and unco guid
Presbyterians ; in fact, it looks as if the parsons are
determined to use the war-fever as a means of reviving
some of their waning popularity with the masses.
Stolid Scotchbyterian Dunedin is about the most
violent pro-gore quarter in Maoriland. By the way,
Grimes, the ultra-Jingo R.C. Bishop of Christchurch, told
a contingent of Canterbury clodhoppers, on the eve of
their departure for S’Africa, that they were like unto the
Crusaders who went forth to fight for the Cross against
the wild hordes of Mahomet ! How these shameless clerics
can capsize facts when it suits their turn. It is a case
rather of Mahomet going forth against the Cross. The
British empire is a great deal more Mohammedan than
Christian nowadays, and a great deal more devoted to
Hinduism than to all other creeds combined.
“ Bob R.” writes:—
The Sydney Freetrade press is always grievously con-
cerned about the hardships imposed on the farming
community by the alleged “ tariff tax.” There is a real
tax about which they are discreetly silent—the agent
tax. A farmer can neither buy an implement nor sell a
bit of produce without paying a tax of from 10 to 20 per
cent, to the middleman—the individual with the “boiled
shirt ” and fashionably cut pants who does nothing but
book the order. The farmer pays the agent (through the
mills, of course), 4d. per bag for every bag of wheat he
sells, equivalent this year to a tax of 15,per cent. Should
the farmer attempt to treat direct with the miller he is
referred politely to the firm’s district agent, or else the
4d. per bag is deducted all the same. A friend of the
writer’s, when in Melbourne a short time ago, visited a
large importing and manufacturing implement firm to
purchase a winnower. He offered “cash down,” and
asked for a rebate of the usual agent’s commission. The
firm politely declined, saying that its agreement with the
agent in the town where my friend did business would
not allow it—the conuffission must be paid to the age


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
of the United States.
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBER, 1901.
ASSETS
INCREASE IN ASSETS
£68,966,608
£5,508,678
£14,797,717
£1,039,973
£245,682,651
£13,000,350
£8,088,718
SURPLUS
INCREASE IN SURPLUS
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE ..
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1900 by ...
LOCAL DIRECTORS:
Sir WM. M'MILLAN, K.C.M.G., Chairman; Hon. C. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.O. ;
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S.,
F. G. COWLEY, Secretary. Manager for N.S.VV. and Queensland.
A SIMILE AND A MORAL.—“ What the
dustman is to the dwelling in which we live, that
Hunyadi Janos is to the local habitation of the
human spirit.” Thus writes a well-known medical
writer.*
FACILE PRIIMCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
if the machine was imported into his neighborhood. It
may be pertinently asked why the Farmers’ and Settlers’
Association does not attempt to stamp out this tax. The
simple reason, to my mind, is that that body is largely
controlled by a clique of agents and middlemen 1
SUNDAY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Ben Hur.”
Lyceum “ Hearts are Trumps.”
Tivoli . Rickards’ Co.
Empire Cosgrove Dramatic Co.
Palace World’s Entertainers.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ Sweet Nell of Old Drury.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Runaway Girl."
Theatre Royal “ The Night Birds of London.”
Bijou World’s Entertainers.
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
«
“Ben Hur” at Her Majesty’s, Sydney,
still draws all religions and* colors, local and
visiting. Of the thousands who have seen the
drama perhaps only half have arrived in time for
the prelude, that desert-scene in which the three
wise men see the star of Bethlehem arise. Mr.
Narranji, the Hindu gentleman, is one of the
wise men. His special rdle later is that .of camel-
leader, and he is nightly watched by groups of his
admiring countrymen. He and the camel are to
them the principals of the play. Ben Hur might
drop out—and no loss, but woe to J. 0.
Williamson if Allah called Narranji hence, or
the camel got the mange. On Saturday night
the rdle of Ben Hur was taken by Lumsden
Hare, who has been the Tribune Arrius
of the caste. Hare’s picture of the Jew prince
was excellent. His physique is better fitted for
the part than that of the former Ben, who is now
in bed with sciatica. His love-making had all the
warmth that Tearle’s lacked. Miss Maekay and
Miss Chevalier, as the Jewish and Roman maidens
respectively, having tired of their efforts to be
like girls who lived 1900 years ago, are playing
better and more naturally than in the early
weeks of the drama. They have wisely decided
that Girl is much the same in all climes
and all ages—except as regards her clothes
and hair-dressing. Alma Vaughan, who as
Amrah, the nurse of Hur, feeds him (in the
story) with a broiled fowl, thin cakes of white
bread, delicate paste of brayed wheat (why is that
obsolete, it sounds nice ?) honey and wine, does
her part faithfully and honestly. She is all
the more worthy of praise as she is on only in
the midst of great alarms and excursions, clanging
of Roman armor, lepers, choruses, miracles, and
counter-attractions that might well swamp the
efforts of the brown-gowned, turbaned nurse, who
never once says “ If you don’t heighten my wages
and give me an extra night out I’ll go over to
Solomon Cohen’s.”
• * • •
Sheik Ilderim, master of 10,000 horsemen
with spears, cultivates a patch of splendid elocu-
tion when he describes the desert meeting of the
Three and the rising of the star, 27 years after the
trek occurred. That view of the open* heaving
sea, green, grey and indigo, is in the matter of
color an optical delusion, inasmuch as there is no
color there, and the sheen of the waters is merely
tinted light projected on to the grey canvas
waves. It does manager Vincent proud, and
would deceive a sea-gull.
** * *
The old World’s Entertainers having
departed, their successors will re-open Sydney
Palace this Saturday night. The organisation is
new to Sydney, but it has been showing to Mel-
bourne audiences for some weeks, and advices
from that city represent it to be as amusing as it
is polite.
*# * *
Sydney Royal closed with a loud indignant
slam last Friday night. It slammed practically
without notice, and wholly without ceremony.
Business was bad at George Musgrove’s gorgeous
show —ashow which deserved about the bestsupport
Sydney could give it. But there is comparatively
little business to go round in these times of Plague.
The dauntless “bloke” person goes to the cheap
melodrama as of yore, and pays little heed to
things bubonic, but the aristocracy has given way
to unseemly terror. And what aristocracy is still
on deck preferred Her Majesty’s, as a place which
had just been officially cleaned and disinfected.
So in one way and another Cheekee and Washee
Washee washed to very poor business.
w* * *
“ Hearts are Trumps ” continues to make
a favorable impression at Sydney Lyceum. The
procession of flower-decked bicycles does not jam
together as on the opening night, and the cos-
tuming at the house of the stout lady who is
ordered off to bed by her aristocratic husband is
as brilliant as ever. A good word must be said
for Miss Frances Rutledge as the Society milliner,
who sells her business to Miss Frances Ross as a
going concern, when it is really a going-away
concern. For the rest, the Maison Phrynette, the
Biograph and the Alpine Fatality keep up to
their old mark, and any lady who wants to see
Society ladies attired magnificently on nothing or
so a year can view that unaccountable fact at the
Lyceum nightly. The poverty of some of these
richly-clothed aristocrats is described by them-
selves as something Terrible.
** * *
“ A Wife’s Peril ” is the initial production
of the Cosgrove Company at Sydney Empire.
The author does not put his name upon his effort,
otherwise he might also be in peril. However, he
has read “East Lynne’’and the “Ironmaster”
and watered the result down so as to avoid
exciting his audience to any undue extent. The
Peril of George Farrel’s wife is an Italian who
separates himself from the usual stage foreigner
by sporting large English bicycle-stockings. She
elopes with this apparition, but hasn’t got as far
as the railway station when the husband returns
unexpectedly co meet his child falling off
a balcony. Owing to this and other cir-
cumstances the wife comes back to her
home, where she is a crushed worm, and is treated
as badly as if she were an unrepentant eloper of
many years standing. The husband, who treats
her with cold politeness, subsides into blank verse
about this time, and when anyone tries to cheer
him up, he says things like: “I pray you cease,
for now I know too well she loves me not.” He
is a modern husband, and seems up to date in
other respects, but he likes to take his domestic
calamity in an old-fashioned, Shakespearian
manner. Miss Rose Phillips plays the oscilla-
ting wife, and oscillates first in a stout white
dress and next in an equally stout brown one.
About Act IV. or so the husband shoots the
gentlemen in bicycle-stockings behind the scenes.
On Saturday evening, the funny man came for-
ward and apologised for the dearth of blood in
this piece, but stated that there would be more
blood later on. He also said that “Sapho” was
in active preparation. John Cosgrove, as the
large, excitable funny man, lifted the drama some-
what. Without John, it gibbered. It is not that
John has anything much to say, but he says
it well. Nobody else in the drama really
matters very much not the stout wife, or
the hard - voiced sister, or the Shake-
spearian husband, or the one or two persons
whose names are in the caste, but who don’t seem
to appear. The child that falls off the balcony
at the psychological moment acts with bursts of
naturalness, and all the rest is mostly a room with
furniture in it, or another room with the same
furniture in it.
** * *
Fitzgerald Bros’, circus opens on Saturday
at the old spot by Sydney railway station with
many new attractions, including a full-grown
horse feet high, the diving horses, and in-
numerable dogs, elephants and sundries.
*# * *
The Women’s Progressive Association is a
quaint Sydney function that meets once a month
to hear some man (generally younger than most
of itself) discourse on some irrelevant subject. At
a recent meeting the subject was “Australian
Explorers,” and the fact that the speaker didn’t
drag women’s wrongs into the matter somehow
got on one Aggressive female’s soul, so she added
an amendment to the effect that women also
endured many hardships. The Aggressive
Association solemnly added this to its minutes,
and the soul of the Wronged One was appeased.
An exhilarating scene occured at the next meeting,
when a bright young man, with that dearth of
originality that stamps the University-trained,
affirmed that whenever a nation began to think
of the rightness or wrongness of its policy it
smashed up. He observed also that when
'England acquired any country by conquest or
otherwise, that country always became reasonable,
and rather glad on the whole that it had been
acquired. He implied that countries resisted
England for the appearance of th« thing, but were
secretly yearning all the time to be under the
Great Flag. At the conclusion of the discourse,
a S’African lady got up and remarked snappishly
that she had seen the British Flag, and it was
very dirty; and she had gazed on the British
soldier, and he was very drunk. Then she sat
down hurriedly for fear of arrest, while detach-
ments of the Association approved or disapproved
of her vigorously. It was a member of this
Association also who remarked that Methuen
should never have been in command, as he was
subject to periodic fits of insanity, and was
rebuked by a member of the Upper Sex with:
“ How dare you make such a statement about an
Englishman!” Englishmen are never insane.
Also they are never dead.
** * *
At Sydney Tivoli, Peggy Pryde and Lotty
continue to be the chief attractions. A “musical
tramp,” George B. Alexander, appeared for the
first time on Saturday night. His specialty is a
mixture of American gags, sacred songs, and
tired-out clothes, and his humor is not very
noticeable, but he has a robust voice, fit to cope
with a Wagnerian orchestra, and the novelty and
effective setting of his turn have made it a success-
ful affair so far.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal a large, earnest
crowd welcomed Wm. Anderson’s aviary of
“ Night Birds of London,” but withheld its appro-
val from the dark deeds of those town-fowl, and,
like Carmenita in the “Runaway Girl,” “made
it its business to sy so.” Cries of “ Shyme ” were
frequent, provoking responsive yells of ‘ ‘ Horder! ”
The Night-birds are not nightingales, or cur-
lews—merely members of a club, given to encour-
aging on its premises after dark, ballets, barmaids,
singing-girls, gambling-sharpers, pugilists and
sich. A prominent night-hawk is a designing
nephew (H. C. Willard) who dresses well, habitu-
ally taps his thin, aristocratic lips with a mani-
cured forefinger, and contrives for his own ends .
that hi 3 cousin (Robert Inman), son of a rich
colonel, shall be plucked like a pigeon in the
Night-birds’ eyrie, fleeced at cards, and disgraced
so that his father (J. H. Nunn) may disinherit
him and take nephew Willard to his bosom instead.
When a fond parent has just been bitterly dis-
appointed in his own child, it seems foolish of
him to immediately take over somebody else's son
or daughter, but that’s what he always does in
melodrama. Anyway, the plan works. Son
Inman not only cuts up rough at cards, but flies
the country as a murderer, owing to pugilist
Temple Harrison having intervened with a
knuckle-duster during a row in the Night-birds
cote. Son Inman, ever ready to assume the label
of “ assassin,” goes forth like Cain, while his wife,
Eugenie Duggan, and her child (little Pattie
Hughes) are taken to the home of Colonel Nunn,
father of the supposed criminal, there to tend
his declining years in company with bad nephew
Willard.
* * * *
Wife Eugenie is a nice woman, but it’s an
awful pity son Inman married her, for she had
been married before to a forger (George Carey),
who turns up during her grass-widowhood;
forcibly elopes with her; steals her child, and
helps himself to her father-in-law’s jewels. So it
appears for a while that Eugenie has really no
father-in-law, not having been lawfully married
to Inman ; but it proves that the forger was also
a bigamist, and his marriage to Eugene wasn’t
legal, therefore her marriage to Inman was legal,
and Eugene recovers her father-in-law. The
forger’s first wife (Ivy Gorriok) he has disposed of
in a mad-house, whence she escapes later on to
casb vitriol on his false countenance and his
evil smile. Bad nephew Willard murders his
uncle, the Colonel, and commits many more crimes
in partnership with Ada Guildford, ex-barmaid
and adventuress, who habitually wears yellow or
crimson and makes the gallery boy very indignant
by her light way of laughing over her wickedness.
Bert Bailey, the comic man of the play, is popular
with the gallery, though in real life he would be
regarded as next door to an imbecile. In the end,
the villains are all hanged or blown up in a gas
explosion and the good people inherit fortunes and
proceed to live happily ever afterwards. The gas
explosion deserves a word of praise, so does the
burning house, with the police keeping back the
crowd and the snow falling quietly on the excite-
ment below.
** # *
“ Sweet Nell of Old Drury,” billed to close
her Melbourne season of 38 nights on March 26,
will then leave for Tasmania, harpsichord, prize-
spaniel, King and all, in the sure and certain hope
of enlivening that island for 17 nights, starting
from Easter Saturday. Slowbart, which feels
rather pale and flat after the Medical Congress
whirl of cancer-conferences, garden parties, etc.,
is already committing a fatal assault on the fatted
heifer, so to speak, and otherwise preparing a
warm welcome for Charles the Prodigal and giddy
Gwynne.
» * * *
Pending departure, “ Sweet Nell ” is pros-
pering at the old address. Harcourt Beatty’s
Charles is a favorable study of the “pleasant,
brown-faced gentleman,” who, according to
Pepys, “ minded nothing but pleasures and hated
the very thought of business.” But Marquis, the
spaniel, has, ’tis said, lost popularity with his
colleagues of the Musgrove Co., because one
night, lately, his loud, vulgar scratching ruined
that tender reconciliation-scene between Charles
and Gwynne. Accusers maintain that the culprit
is so exquisitely coiffured that one tormentor, at
the very most, must have caused his trouble. One
can’t blame Marquis for hastily assailing his
unbidden guest with his hind foot these times.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) a large
following tires not in its chase of the “ Runaway
Girl.” The second and third weeks of her flight,
when races, polo, &c., kept a good many people
in holiday humor, all the chairs from cloak-rooms,
&c., were commandeered every night to seat the
surplus audience. Fourth week saw a slight drop,
but only enough to relieve the hunted feeling
experienced by the staff in front. The “ Girl ”is
extra-rich in catchy songs, which hearers know by
this time, or think they do. “ The boy guessed
right” and “Follow the man from Cook’s”
funeral-march the meat home from the butcher’s
all round Melbourne now. Postmen have a weak-
ness for “I’m only a little singing-girl! ” but boys
plump for “Listen to the band!” with instru-
mental imitations.
** * *
At Melbourne Opera House, the net-
ball game stings small boys to the verge of mad-
ness. To see the honor of Australia entrusted to
a lot of girls, who keep pitching the ball over the
pocket instead of into it, is hard for juvenile
patriots to endure. When this patriot saw the
game, somebody’s hair tumbled down from sheer
excitement and bared a horsehair roll-pad to public
derision. Only for that pad, one might have re-
garded the supposed accident as a put-up job, for
it was nice, long, black, Australian hair that
fell down. Thin grey hair or shabby red thatch
always stays up, somehow.
** * *
At Adelaide Royal the Wilson Forbes Co.,
deserting Paradise after a two nights’ trial, has
trodden the safer paths of “ East Lynne” and
“ The Dangers of Paris” (so-called; “Stranglers of
Paris ” really.) Ada Lawrence is now advertised
as (in particular) “ the best Camille ever seen in
Adelaide” and in general “the greatest actress
in Australasia,”
The Chinese have an apt proverb con-
cerning the mass of dunderheads who “cannot
talk to a cripple without discussing feet.” This
is a common trouble. Recently Henry Steiner, a
former jeweller of Adelaide, who has retired to
his native Germany, sent out thence, as a gift to
the Adelaide Museum, two cases of German coins
and tokens of special issues and considerable
value. At the meeting of the Governors of the
Museum the usual vote of thanks was proposed.
Sammy Way, who is the Chairman of this as well
as of most other boards in Holy-town, tried to
tack on an expression “of the hope that friendly
relations might continue between the Empires of
Great Britain and Germany.” Everybody knows
those Empires are not friendly, nor likely to be
for some time; and what doesn’t exist can’t
continue. Then William Russell arose in his
wrath to object to the addition “until some
apology were forthcoming for the recent utter-
ances derogatory to England in the German
press.” Brookman and other level-headed mem-
bers insisted upon a mere courteous personal
acknowledgment. The greasy Way managed,
however, to slip in a characteristically slimy
assurance to the donor that the gift would be
specially interesting “in connection with the
relationship between the Royal families of the
two countries.” Every German who now goes to
the Museum to gaze on the bronze or gold
counterfeit of Blood-and Iron Bismarck, and fails
to say something audible about “the relationship
of the Royal families, &c.,” will probably be
ushered out or pelted with specimens as a sus-
pected “ pro-Boer.” In one way and another the
Adelaide Museum people managed to accept
Steiner’s kindly gift in an uncouth and bearish
fashion, and to make a painful exhibition of their
own want of tact and manners.
At Poverty Point.
They manage things differently in London. Towards
the end of January the King went to a theatre—the first
time a sovereign had attended it for 40 years—but there was
no National Anthem or other fuss, and the audience did
not know Royalty had patronised the show until they
read it in the papers the next morning. In Australia the
lack of the blessed anthem would be accounted as indi-
cating treason and Pro-Boerism of the deepest dye, and
the theatre which offended would be shunned more stead-
fastly than if it were full of plague germs.
Camilla Urso, violinist, who visited Australia more than
once, is dead. She was a very ugly little woman, but she
was a superb musician and wore wondrous diamonds.
Fitzgerald’s circus has secured from Port Pirie (S.A.) a
kangaroo 6ft. 6in. high.
The revival in London of Wilde’s “ Importance of Being
Earnest ” has attained more than a success of scandal.
Dramatic critics like Archer, Arthur Symons, and Max
Beerbohm consider it a “ classic” and “ the most brilliant
farce of last century.” Who since Wilde has written
comedies to compare with “ Lady Windermere’s Fan,”
“ The Importance of Being Earnest,” and “ A Woman of
No Importance ”?.
Mrs. Tom Mann, wife of the socialist orator and labor
leader who was fined for selling watered beer, sings at her
husband’s lectures in Maoriland. She boasts a well-
trained mezzo-soprano voice and is a licentiate of the
Royal Academy of Music.
Wilson Barrett hit Maoriland theatre proprietors hard
at Wellington when he said that every theatre he had
acted in so far was a disgrace to the State. Actors’
housing accommodation was shocking—enough to make
any self-respecting dog howl to get out of it.
A theatrical wedding broke the dull, drab monotony of
peaceful Napier (M.L.) on February 27, when G. H.
Smith, manager for Wilson Barrett, married Miss Boswell,
one of the co., at the Catholic church. Ambrose Manning
gave away the bride.
“H.A.”: Wilson Barrett" touring Maoriland is very
much the little tin god on wheels. Receives ovations,
makes farewell speeches to departing South African-
ites, and talks to city fathers about their duty re sup-
porting a pure and elevating theatre. Makes a point of
not cutting Shakespeare, and leaving in the King’s
stodgy soliloquy in “ Hamlet,” &c., but is too much the
old woman to resist the temptation of taking the last
word from Laertes, and giving it to his noble self. W. 8.,
by the way, does not look a good Hamlet—fears to
obscure with paint the intellectual lines on His com-
plexion, so makes Himself double the age for the part.
Barrett was immediately preceded through M.L. by “A
Message from Mars ” co. The contrast in staging was re-
markable. Hawtrey’s motto is, “ Take care of the
supers., it will make the principals take care of them-
selves.” W. 8., on the contrary, does not even wig his
supers. It is something of a shock to find among the
“ accused Kerristian ” friends of “ Mussia” a lady with a
golden fringe and latest coiffure. The Roman mob,
moreover, all has its hair brushed and parted, frequently
in the middle.
“ E.” : Touching “Sweet Nell of Old Drury,” a par. in
the “ Woman’s Letter ” says :—“ The last act seems bald
and unconvincing. Charles, shown up all through as a
sentimental loafer and leaner-up against things, suddenly
becomes generous, just, and decisive, which is mentally
askew. The innocent man should win his release, not
through Nell Gwynne’s researches in the pockets of
Judge Jeffreys, but through her hold on the heart-strings
of the King. Let her stand up to him pluckily in his
jealousy and estrangement, and bring him round by
blandishments, caresses, and mother-wit. A girl like
Nellie Stewart could do that ; almost any kind of girl
could explore Jeffreys’ pockets.” The mental askewness
is perhaps with the critic. “ Sweet Nell ” seems to be a
play of picturesque surface effects, arranged with careful
regard for consistency. Charles is always a just and
generous sort of tired person until he comes to the
last act, when, for the moment, he threatens to
be cruel. In the second act he overhears Lady Castle-
maine speaking of his exalted self as a fool, but he bears
the loose-tongued female no ill-will on that account. In
the third act, when he has good reason to believe Nell
guilty of giddiness with Fairfax, the alleged “ traitor,”
his dignified Nibs comes along to Jeffreys’ house intending
to see that Fairfax gets fair play. But Nell also appears
upon the scene in a gigantic hat, wherefore the King
retires, leaving Jeffreys to try the case and report on it.
Charles doesn’t doubt Jeffreys’ honesty, and as his
suspicions about Nell are naturally confirmed by her show
of interest in Fairfax, he retires. He hates unpleasant-
ness and loves his dignity above all things. Most kings
are built that way. In the last act he finds that the
death warrant of' Fairfax has been sent to him for
signature, and at this crisis Charles’ tendency
to justice and wi-decision of character are as marked
as before. He sentimentalises over the death-warrant,
takes up a pen to sign his name, then hesitates. Finally,
he decides to hear what this “ traitor ” has to say against
the Jeffreys judgment. Curiosity as to the personality of
Nell’s supposed lover mingles with his weary desire to be
magnanimous rather than vindictive. But when Fairfax
dares to make a violent “scene” in his royal presence
Charles is for letting the fellow be wiped out anyhow.
He actually signs the warrant before Nell arrives with
the proofs—good old proofs ! —of the prisoner’s innocence,
which she had found in the pocket of the Judge’s robe.
Then the King puts things right in a quiet sort of way.
So much for the statement that he becomes suddenly
different to his previous self. As for the suggestion that
Nell should tug at Charles’ heart-strings, instead of
appealing to his common-sense with documentary evi-
dence, stress is laid upon Charles’ jealousy
where Nell is concerned. As long as she is
under suspicion of being mistress to Fairfax
she has precious little hope of saying the man’s
life by an appeal to the King. Jeffreys mockingly bids
her go and try her luck. The more persistent her sweet
womanly endeavors, the more she would tempt Charley
to put the other fellow out of the running. Her only
chance is in the letters. So the dramatist arranges that
Nell, whilst masquerading in Jeffreys’ robe and wig for a
minor purpose, should casually discover the all-important
papers in the very pocket of the robe which the furious
judge had worn when he condemned his enemy to death.
This incident is a gem of melodrama. We have had
nothing like .t before, whereas we have been bored a
score of times by the heroine who interviews a potentate,
in order to play upon his heart-strings, re a condemned
prisoner. “Sweet Nell of Old Drury” is a very clever
play, far too clever for its fault-finders.
“ E.”: Your “Pov. Pointer” re Fechter and the
“ anxious voice from the gallery ” is not the original
version of an old story. It was told of Creswick in the
first instance. The performance of a dreary five-act drama
dragged along to midnight, when the curtain rose on the
fifth act. Creswick was discovered seated alone at a table
in the centre of the stage. The author had given him a
long soliloquy—his fifteenth soliloquy since 7.30 p.m., or
thereabouts—and when the measured elocutionist had
been talking to vacancy for fully five minutes without
bringing the end of the trouble into view, a meek man
arose from his seat in the front row of the pit, coughed
an apologetic little cough, and said: “ Shall you be
o-o-ng, sir ? ”
Two celebrated musicians more or less known in
Australia got into the organ loft at one of New-
man’s Sunday afternoon concerts, in Queen’s Hall,
London, to have a look at Edward VII., who, “ with suite,”
was breaking the Sabbath there. But the watchful de-
tectives saw two great oily unusual heads in the organ
loft, and they swiftly and silently converged on the cele-
brated musicians, with a view to arresting them on a
general charge of anarchy, and being suspected of a desire
to throw bombs at Edward VII. The matter was explained
in time, and the much-needed wash which the pair might
have had in the lock-up didn’t happen.


stocks Kept
RAND ROCK DRILLS & AIR COMPRESSORS
BY THE SOLE AGENTS—
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And at 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE ; WELLINGTON, N.Z.;
214 HIGH STREET, FREMANTLE; KALGOORLIE.
df
TRAMWAYS. TRAMWAYS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material
fXT" Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p. “a®
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories Steel Sleeners
Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical advice gratuitously;
rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Catalogues and Photo-
• graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different parts of the World nnon"
application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts,nuts,forgings, andallsortsofiron-work.*
* * * *
Local Government Journal, July, 1901:
“The Colonial Mutual needs no endorsement, its stability
is beyond question.”*
• * * *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buchu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
Mr. A. Gilfillan, B.Sc., O.E. (Edin.), Mining
and Metallurgical Engineer, Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne, is leaving for London about April next, for
the purpose of establishing a London office, and attending
to the flotation of approved niining and other proposi-
tions. Before leaving Mr. Gilfillan will visit the various
colonies for the purpose of inspecting any options which
may be offered. Correspondence invited from mine-
owners who have properties worth handling.*
» * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
See for yourself. The Australian Medical
Gazette of January, 1891, compares Zetz Spa to the cele-
brated Vichy waters of France, and states that it is
valuable for gout, rheumatism, gravel, catarrh of the
bladder, diabetes, dyspepsia, splenic and hepatic dis-
orders.
* * * *
Vanning Tables. — The very newest and what
gives exceedingly fair promise of superseding all other
tables is the machine known as the Wesley-Baird Vanning
Table. The table is of South Australian invention, and
has given excellent results on Broken Hill ores and ores
containing pyrites, carbonate of copper and tin. Like all
tables, the best work is done on “ fines,” and more espe-
cially when the product is properly classified. The
Central Mining and Tramway Co., of 424 Little Collins-
street, Melbourne, and 40 Hunter-street, Sydney, are the
sole agents in the Eastern States. The table has a capa-
city up to 30 tons per day.*
* * • *
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and- all
mining knd assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grim wade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
• • « •
The Austral Otis Engineering Co.’s tender for
the supply of nearly a million arc lamps of Conradty’s
manufacture has been accepted by the City Council of
Melbourne. The same co. has also been entrusted with
the supply of the Launceston City Council’s requirements
of arc lamp carbons.*
* » * *
The breezy C. E. Hogg, once of N.S.W. rail-
ways but lately “ something in the city,” is having more
experiences with his multi - reconstructioned Golden
Arrow (W.A.). At the last meeting in London, when the
old demand for “ a little more capital, gentlemen,” was
made, Hogg said he didn’t like the word “ reconstruc-
tion,” and was looking for another. Whereupon a sore
shareholder said he would help the searcher, and, for a
start, suggested “ fleecing.” At latest, shareholders were
chewing over Mr. Hogg’s suggestion that they should
pay up another ss. for every two shares they hold.
CYANIDE GU^B*oo% ED
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting; Charges.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Mklbournb ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel. ; V Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
N.S.W. Premier See has been talking lugu-
briously to a deputation about the Sydney land resump-
tions. He said he “was not quite sure it was a good
thing for the Government to acquire that area ” ; it had
led to much trouble; he wasn’t going to resume any
more property at present; and, he added sorrowfully,
that there was a difficulty about raising the money to
pay for the resumed properties. That latter fact every-
body knows. Also everybody who knows anything of
finance is perfectly aware that there was no need to raise
any money. The' Bulletin, at the time of the resump-
tions and on many subsequent occasions, urged that
there should be no floating of loans, but that a clause
should be inserted in the Resumption Act authorising the
Government to hand the late proprietors of the Rocks
and Darling Harbour properties 3} per cent. Govern-
ment securities in payment. By so doing the State
would have saved a whole lot of money after this fashion :
(1) The loan being a local one instead of a foreign one
there would not be £120,000 or more per annum going
out of the country in interest, and the country, in the
aggregate, would be that amount better off. The interest
would remain in the country.
(2) The heavy cost of “ management" in London and of
remitting interest to London would be saved.
(3) The loss of some £320,000 or so in discount would
be saved, for the securities would be issued at par.
(4) The interest, being paid locally, would be subject to
N.S.W. income-tax, which would bring in some revenue.
When loans are floated in London they are not subject to
N.S.W. income-tax, but to J. Bull’s income-tax, and his
Treasury annexes the profits.
(5) N.S.W. would save at least six months’ interest on
the loan, for if it had paid the dispossessed property-
holders in Government securities, interest would have
commenced only when the securities were handed over.
The big £4,000,000 loan was floated in London some six
months ago ; only £500,000 of it has yet been paid to the
property-holders ; the interest on the £4,000,000 is going
on all the time, and it isn’t nearly counterbalanced by the
small sums which N.S.W. gets from the banks, where.the
money is lying.
(6) Allowing for all the miscellaneous savings (interest,
discount, expenses of flotation, cost of management, cost
of remitting interest, income-tax, &c.) N.S.W., if it had
paid the dispossessed property-holders in 3} per cent,
securities, would be paying far less than it is doing now,
in addition to drain of £120,000 a year upon
the country through the export of gold, and in addition
to preventing the great absentee curse growing £4,000,000
larger.
(7) And the people who received the money would pro-
bably have got more than they will get now. The big
loan was floated in 1901, when the money market was
about at its worst. The money-market won’t always
remain bad. And the recipient, who could sell at his
leisure, would probably, if he chose his time well, get
£lOl or £lO2 where he now gets only £lOO.
* » * »
As to the reason why the See-O’Sullivan push
didn’t adopt this simple, profitable, honest and obvious
course, that is plain enough. If the Government had
paid in its own paper, instead of selling the paper at a
frightful loss in London at a time when the market was
at its worst and paying with the cash thus raised, there
wouldn’t have been an influx of all that borrowed gold to
make a boom and an artificial outbreak of prosperity here,
and to enable See and O’S. to bleat about the prosperity,
which attended their administration and so on. There
would have been no £3,600,000 odd coming into N.S. W. (and
consequently no £120,000 a year interest going out), and
to the country as a whole it would have been exactly the
same as if there had been no borrowing at all. The
resumed property would have been owned in N.S.W., and
there would have been no new absentee landlord created
ta sit on the State’s chest like a nightmare. As See and
O’Sullivan did things the property is virtually owned in
London, for the mortgagee is there. The policy of the
See Government was simply so much more needless
pawning of N.S.W. and its future and its people and its
resources to the absentee to make a little boom in the
meantime.
* * * *
The Commercial Bank of Tasmania (Hobart)
hasn’t kept up to the earning capacity of the half-year
which ended in August, 1901, but it is still doing well:
Dividends and Written
Profits. Dividend Tax. off. Reserves.
Dec., 1895 £3701 5 per cent. =£3712 £190,320
June, 1896 4199 5 „ „ 3766 190,753
Dec., 1896 3833 5 „ „ 3714 190,872
Aug., 1897 4969 5 „ „ 4952 190,889
Feb., 1898 4463 5 „ „ 3714 £lOOO 190,638
Aug., 1898 4823 5 „ ~ 3714 1000 190,747
Feb., 1899 4885 5 „ ~ 3714 1000 190,918
Aug., 1899 5519 0 „ „ 4457 91,000 100,980
Feb., 1900 6611 6 „ „ 4457 1500 101,634
Aug., 1900 6828 7 „ „ 5200 1500 101,762
Feb., 1901 7502 7 „ „ 5200 1500 102,564
Aug., 1901 13,497 8 „ „ 5943 5000 105,118
Feb., 1902 8640 8 „ „ 5943 107,815
The earnings are at the rate of £7 os. 2d per cent, per
annum on the total shareholders’ funds as at the
commencement of the half-year, which, seeing that
the average bank earnings just now are between
4 and 5 per cent., is a highly satisfactory figure. During
the half-year, deposits have increased by £168,003, and
now stand at £1,517,616. The reserve of cash and State
securities has also increased, and represents £401,560,
equal to 26 per cent, of all liabilities to the public. The
holding of State securities (£184,822) is especially solid
for a bank of this size. Apparently the process of provid-
ing for losses is at last completed (the final writing-off of
£5OOO was to provide for the slump in the bank’s stock of
British consols, arising from De Wet’s persistent refusal
to be captured), and the reserves have grown by £6835 in
the last 21 years. If the Commercial of Tasmania doesn’t
begin recklessly increasing its dividend—there was a
time when it paid 25 per cent. —it looks like having
another spell of prosperity before it.
* * * •
The Union Marine Insurance Co., Limited (of
Liverpool), of which W. and A. McArthur, 15 Macquarie
Place are the Sydney representatives, publishes a cheer-
ing balance-sheet for 1901. The revenue for that year
was £478,315, and as far as can be gathered from a rather
complicated and old-fashioned method of keeping the
accounts, the losses and expenses were £319,384, so the
co. got ahead to the extent of £158,931. Out of this
dividends to the extent of 15 per cent, on a paid-up
capital of £163,500 were paid, which absorbed £25,525.
The balance of revenue over expenditure, however, repre-
sented nearly 100 per cent, on paid-up capital, and when
the year closed the total reserves were over £700,000. The
revenue from investments alone was £27,415, sufficient to
pay a dividend of lflf per cent. It must be a rather
pleasant thing to be a shareholder in the Union Marine.
» * * *
The New Zealand Accident Insurance Co. has
had another phenomenally good year. In the figures
shown hereunder Tub Bulletin has included the balance
at credit of plate-glass insurance and other accounts in
the reserves. This was not done in previous notices, but
it is undoubtedly the more correct view of the case :
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
1891 .. £2923 .. 12 } per cent. = £625 .. £15,698
1892 .. 2506 .. 12i „ „ 625 .. 17,579
1893 .. 1758 .. 12J „ „ 625 .. 18,712
1894 .. 5592 .. 12J „ „ 625 ... 23.679
1895 .. 6118 ..15 „ „ 750 .. 29,047
1896 .. 7286 ..15 „ „ 750 .. 35,583
(£5OOO reserves added to capital, making £10,000) 30,583
1897 .. 8080 ... 10 „ ~ 1000 .. 37,663
1898 .. 12,210 ..10 „ ~ 1000 .. 48,873
1899 .. 11,898 .. 10 „ ~1000 .. 69,771|
1900 .. 9082 ..10 „ ~1000 .. 67,853
(£15,000 reservesadded to capital, making£2s,ooo) 52,853
1901 .. 15,465 .. 10 „ „ 1750 .. 66,568
The new issue of shares carried a dividend for the second
half of the year only. Taking everything into account,
the New Zealand Accident Insurance 00. may fairly
be called the most prosperous institution of its kind,
perhaps of any kind, in Australasia. The 10 per cent,
dividend paid in 1897-8-9 and 1900 really represented 20 1
per cent, on the shareholders’ funds, as in 1896. The 10’
per cent, dividend now represents 50 per cent. Since
1891 the shareholders, in addition to receiving magnificent
dividends, have accumulated £70,870 —equal to fourteen
times the capital they had in ’9l. The income from in-
vestments alone last year was £364B—sufficient to pay
over 72 per cent, on the real capital as it stood in 1896, or
over 14 per cent, on the present capital. The investments
—mostly State and municipal securities—amount to
£100,109. Also, last year’s profits would have paid 300
per cent, on the real capital as it stood in 1896 before it
was bloated out by the capitalising of reserves, or 60 per
cent, on present capital. The shareholders of the New
Zealand Accident Insurance Co. should be a well-satisfied
crowd.
• * * *
The Squatting Investment Co. (Melbourne), a
big pastoral concern with large properties, principally in
Queensland:
Dividends. Reserves.
1890 .. Profit £19,283 .. 3 per cent. = £8,760 .. £19,720
1891.. „ 26,244 .. 6 „ „ 17,520.. 28,444
1892*. Loss 11,206 .. 3 „ „ 8,760 .. 8,478
Deficit.
1893.. „ 9,232 „ NiL .. 754
Reserves.
1894 .. Profit 774 .. Nil. .. 20
1895.. „ 22,001 .„ Nil. .. 22,021
1896.. „ 7,793 .. Nil. .. 29,814
1897.. „ 12,131.. Nil. .. 41,945
1898.. „ 39,624 .. 2£ per cent. = £7,300.. 74,269
1899 .. Loss 38,092 .. 2J „ „ 7,300 .. 28,877
1900.. „ 27,060 .. Nil. .. 1,817
Deficit.
1901 .. „ 11,967 .. Nil. .. 10,150
Truly the lot of the incorporated wool-king is a hard one
these times.
• • • *
The Australian Coffee Palace Co. (Melbourne)
the concern which owns, or principally owns, the Hotel
Metropole (Sydney) shows a further improvement:
Profits. How Disposed of. Reserves.
1892 .. £3OOB .. Written off = £2937 .. £27,689
1893 .. 395 .. „ „ 434 .. 27,650
1894 .. 331 .. „ „ 18,355 .. 9626
1895 .. 594 .. „ „ 10,114 .. 106
1896 .. 976 .. „ ~ 500 .. 582
1897 .. 1776 .. „ „ 1500 .. 858
1898 .. 1310 .. „ ~ 2000 .. 168
1899 .. 5054 .. „ ~ 4000 .. 1222
1900 .. 4859 .. 3 per cent. = 1500 .. 4581
1901 .. 5191 ..3 „ „ 1500 .. 8272
The earnings are equal to over 10 percent, on the paid-up
capital of £50,000, but the management has evidently
learned a valuable lesson from its troubles in the boom-
burst days, and is keeping dividends low and devoting the
rest of the money to paying off the mortgages on its
two big caravanserais. In this work it is making very
commendable progress. The total mortgages, including
that on the Metropole, for which the Australian Coffee
Palace Co., as owner of five-sixths of the shares, is chiefly
responsible, have stood as follows at various recent dates:
December, 1896.. £137,166 December, 1899.. £107,000
„ 1897.. 125,780 „ 1900.. 98,545
„ 1898.. 115,593 ~ 1901.. 88,625
The profits shown are the total profits of the Australian
Coffee Palace and the amounts received as dividends on
50,000 (out of a total 60,000) shares in the Metropole.
When both mortgages are paid off the Coffee Palace Co.
will not only have its own earnings free, but will also
probably receive larger dividends from the Metropole
and then it should have a really good time. ’
• • * *
The employees of one of the English-directed
banks of this suffering country were recently circularised
by certain high officials to the effect that an English boss
of great tonnage was leaving, and that the staff would
seize that opportunity to present him with a testimonial
subscriptions limited to £1 Is. As the boss in question
had been a remorseless cutter-down of salaries the
anxiety of the impecunious staff to seize the opportunity
may be imagined. Many of them don’t own £1 Is. that
is really theirs from one year’s end to another When is
the legal minimum wage for bank clerks coming along?
There may be no means of shutting-down on the testi-
monial dodge, which, when worked by one high official
behalf of another, is so near to blackmail that the
difference isn’t perceptible, but a minimum wage law
would at least give the poor clerk something with which
to pay the blackmail without bilking his landlady.
Ballarat (Victoria) Gas Co. :
T , , onrl Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
July, 1899 .. jgg2 §65
January, 1900.. £4384 14p.c.=£4725 62’524
July, 1900 6731 14 „ _ 4725 63 530
January, 1901.. 4821 14 „ = 4725 63 626
July, 1901 .. 5355 14 ” = 4725 64,256
January, 1902.. 4476 14 „ = 4725 64,007
The paid-up capital is £67,500, so very nearly half the
assets consist of accumulated profits. The Ballarat
Gas Co. is one of the most prosperous concerns
in its line of business in the country. In fact there is a
consistent solidity about the business concerns of the
Victorian Garden City, as evidenced by the solid position
of the Ballarat Banking Co., the Ballarat Trustees
Executors and Agency Co., and the Ballarat Gas Co’
which is often sadly wanting in riotous, slap-dashv
Melbourne. J
• • * •
A little over a year ago there went to London
from Maonland ex-Minister for Railways A. J. Cadman
and “Ironsand” Smith, M.H.R. for New Plymouth, to
float a company for the working of the deposits on Tara-
naki beach. Though not definitely successful, they have
been so far supported that Cadman has written to the
New Plymouth Plarbor Board, making proposals, which
it is pretty certain, will, with Premier Seddon’s back-
ing, be adopted. It is proposed that the company shall
take over the harbor, improve it, and run it for 53 years
pacing valuation for what it takes over, and receiving
compensation for what it hands back when its half--
terminates. During* that time
the harbor-rate will not be levied, and the co. will guaran-
tee to make the port safe and practicable. The harbor
breakwater has all along proved a white elephant to resi-
ents of the Taranaki province. Such a scheme makes it
look as though the dreams of the New Plymouth people
and of “Ironsand” Smith, the erstwhile lamplighter of
the borough, were to be realised. But, though things
look well just now, the foreign syndicate and the big
concession always lead to trouble.
» * * *
The end lately came to the chloridising and
leaching works at the B.H. Prop., no more ore being
suitable ; and the big open cuts have also gone about as
far as it will pay to take them now. Daily, for weeks
past, it is said, the whole staff has been praying for the
drought to hang on, for, if rain had come, there would
almost inevitably have been a bad fall of the sides, por-
tions of which have lately looked very rickety.
* • » •
Cobar is experiencing its annual water difficulty.
All the batteries are idle, and water is being brought in
by train to keep half the smelters going at the big mine.
Some day it will dawn on the Government that Oobar is
a place of sufficient importance to have a water supply
independent of the local rainfall. Permanent waterholes
in the Darling River can be reached within 76 miles of
Cobar, and the vertical height which the water would
have to be raised would not be more than 300 feet. The
cost of the work would be insignificant compared with
the benefits which would arise from the mines having a
copious and continuous water supply, to say nothing
about an occasional ablution for the sulphur-dust-
begrimed, kiln-dried inhabitants.
* * * *
An ordinary cat is credited with having nine
lives. The wild cat’s lives seem to be numberless.
Booth’s Reward (Gundagai, N.S.W.) is a case in point. It
was moribund three years ago, and is still in the death
agony. At a meeting called last week two shareholders
and the secretary attended. Authority was given to the
directors to dispose of forfeited shares. The only value
of the scrip would be as a wall-paper curiosity.
* * * •
Minister Kidd states in all official seriousness
that he is “ gratified ” with the return of £39,000 worth of
gold from N.S.W. dredges last year. The unsophisticated
Minister is well-named. The salting and swindling which
have taken place in connection with N.S.W. dredging
form the darkest page in a very black mining record.
The subscribed capital of dredging companies cannot be
less than £250,000, and when the last of the dredges is
left to rust and decay the net return will not have
amounted to 15 per cent, of that sum. The end of the
current year will see more dredges idle than at work.
• • * *
Last week several Australian dredging claims
made records for their respective dredges. Among the
yields were; —Associated, 114 oz. for 112 hours’ work ;
Jembaicumbene, 1220 z. for 256 hours ; Araluen Central,
660 z. 14dwt. 7gr. for 125 hours ; New Araluen Junction,
47£oz. for week ; Ovens Valley, 720 z. for 253 hours.
* » * *
The famous Berry lead (Kingston, Vic.) is far
from exhausted. Four millions worth of gold have been
won from it, more than half of which has been paid in
dividends. The discovery of the lead in the Spring Hill
mine, a long distance ahead of former workings, means
miles of new ground to be operated on. Wash said to be
as rich as it was in the Madame Berry mine, two miles
away. The lead runs almost parallel with an enormous
quartz reef, from which the gold has been shed, and it
can be traced along the course of Birch’s Creek for many
miles with the strong probability that it will be as good
at one end as the other. The latest discovery is the most
important which has been made in the Ballarat district
for many years, but it will not create a boom. No mine
can be opened on this lead under an expenditure of
£lOO,OOO, owing to_ the immense volume of water that has
to be contended with. Five years of steady work has to
be looked forward to before results are shown. Ballarat
will be equal to the enterprise. It has the men with the
requisite money and faith to undertake it.
» * * •
That ghastly fiasco, the Curtin-Davis Pro-
prietary (Tas.), is in a queer dilemma. It has £lO,OOO to
credit which it does not know how to dispose of. It
cannot pay a dividend out of capital, or go into liquida-
tion without the sanction of three-fourths of the share-
holders, and all efforts so far to get that number repre-
sented at a meeting have failed. Solicitors advise that it
would be useless to apply to the court for a winding-up
order, as the matter is one which concerns the share-
holders only, and is within their direct control. Solution
of the difficulty ought to give an astute lawyer a chance
to scoop the pool.
» » * *
Briseis : The report which appeared in the S.M.
Herald of last Friday is the best thing of its kind which
has ever appeared in that non-committal paper. Instead
of the usual lump of lead it was like a needle, sharp and
shiny, deftly used to prick the Briseis bubble. It is a
violation of all the cherished traditions of the S.M.H. to
indulge in such straight-out comment as this : “ The
shares have been much too high in view of the costly
nature of the undertaking and the absolute unprepared-
ness for the water supply after it has reached the mine.
When an engineering expert states that the mine is worth
six millions sterling, what does he mean ? Merely that
the tin is there and it will be worth that amount after it
has passed through the Launceston smelters and not
before. Before that happens an incalculable amount of
work has to be done. A great deal of it will be dead work.
Judging by recent market prices investors have not
understood this." It is a pity that the value of the report
should be discounted by reason of its anonygiity.
♦ * • *
Mount Garnet Freehold report for half-year is
disappointing. It does not fulfil promises of promoters,
on the strength of which shares were run up (they
once were sold just under 755., and are now, say,
205.), and it does not reveal too bright a prospect.
Ore smelted, 30,586 tons, producing 2931 tons matte,
containing 1462 tons copper and 311,5850 z. silver.
Assay value of ore 6 per cent.; actual recovery in
50 per cent, matte, 4‘7 per cent. Allowing fqr refiner’s
deduction of I'3. units, the net recovery is 3'4 per
cent., or a trifle over half of the ore assay value.
Yet manager considers recovery highly satisfactory.
Some people are easily pleased. It is important to note
that the result was from picked ore, as is admitted in a
casual sort of way in the manager’s report where he
states : “The fall in the price of metals has rendered it
necessary to leave a considerable quantity of poorer ore
m the mine.” This statement is too thin to deceive the
initiated. The fall in the price of metals did not take
place until the beginning of December, the average
“ public ledger ” price of copper for Nov. being £1 Bs.
higher than it was in Oct. It is quite clear that the pro-
cess of discarding a “ considerable quantity of poorer
ore ” must have been continuous throughout the
half-year. The working account shows an alleged
profit of £16,506, but this is purely problematical,
£35,000 included among the receipts not being
cash. The system of selling matte leads to long
delay in adjustment, and it will be some time vet
before the company will know what the real profit was.
The chances are that there will be a large reduction on
the estimate. The working costs were : Ore raising and
transport, 7s. 3d. per ton; smelting, 7s. 9d.; fuel and
fluxes, 14s. (nothing to show what proportions are
chargeable to mining and smelting); ‘stores, 6s. Bd.
(ditto); matte transport, 7s. Id. ; other charges, 2s. ;
total, £2 4s. 9d. per ton of ore. This does not include
realisation charges. What these amount to the directors
will never reveal. It is the same with all copper com-
panies. The shareholders seem content to remain in
ignorance as to how they are sweated by refining com-
panies.
The estimated receipts represent £5B 12s. 6d.
per ton of copper, which would be about a fair thing if
the metal consisted of copper only, but each ton of copper
carries silver of the value of £l3, so that all the company
expects to get for its copper is £45 per ton. The average
value of standard copper for the six months ended
December was £62 per ton, and best selected would be
about £/ higher. The assay is always “ fine” copper, and
this is the quality that the electrolytic refiners produce.
The Garnet return is £l7 per ton under the market value
of 96 per cent, copper, the difference being appropriated
by refiners. There can be no question that the starting
of smelting operations before the railway was completed
was an unsound policy, and it was still more reprehensible
in view of the fact that no provision had been made for
refining the copper on the spot. Reverberatory furnaces
are now being erected and a saving of £lO per ton of
oop p er is anticipated. Why reverb, furnaces? Why don’t
the directors face the position at once and instal a
converter plant? The first cost would be greater,
certainly, but ultimate results would justify it. If the
directors had any practical experience they would
recognise the risks of trusting to reverb, furnaces in
preference to converters. The latter are practi-
cally automatic, they do not require an army of
men with three captains to one laborer. Reverb,
furnaces are indispensable under certain conditions, but
those conditions do not exist at Garnet. Another
thing which is studiously avoided in the reports is th«
pnc question. _ It is admitted that the ore in the top
levels is “ high in zinc contents,” but nothing is said as
to its composition in the lower levels. Experience all
over Australia has shown that copper-zinc lodes increase
m zinc and decrease in copper as depth is attained, and
Mount Garnet is the shallowest mine in which zinc largely
preponderates. It may be that this mine is the exception
to the rule, but the silence on the point would indicate
otherwise. A significant feature of the directors and
managers’ reports is the absence of the customary gush
congratulating shareholders on the “ possession of a most
valuable property, which must realise the most sanguine
expectations.” The only suggestion in this direction is
the cold-tea statement of the directors that “ it is con-
fidently expected that the co. will be in a position to give
returns to the shareholders ere long.” “Returns,” and
nothing more, not even “ satisfactory ! ”
* * * *
Suggested fate of Chillagoe. Garnet directors
rfißvfk . khej' are negotiating for the purchase of
Ohiliagoe siliceous ore, which is specially suited for
fluxing the Garnet basic sulphide. Will Ohiliagoe be
absorbed by Garnet, or struggle on as a flux mine ? It is
understood that Weinberg will return to Ohiliagoe to
start the exploratory work, which, in his opinion, repre-
sentl? the only hope that the co. has, and that, having got
it fairly under weigh, he will retire.
* • * *
A lot of shareholders who look for re-con-
struction most times they meet are those of the Mint
an “ Iron King, which so far has paid London lawyers and
nobody else. This chairman puts too much paint on his
brush, though : “If anything is certain in mining,” he
says, “ it is that below the 500 ft. level in mines one may
expect a great improvement.” And if thej' like they may
also expect reefs of tinned asparagus and crosscuts of
quail on toast-only they won’t get them. From 300 ft.
to 500 ft. the mine has been unpayabty poor ; hence the
before-named high expectations. In this case, however,
there are preference shareholders, the product of one of
the former reconstructions, to be reckoned with ; and
between numerous conflicting interests the future of the
Iron King is rather doubtful.
* • * *
Another Westralian co. to have an early spring
cleaning is the Bellevue Consolidated, whose show at
Lake May, with a big lode and a shallow shaft, that fine
metallurgist, Kohler, was managing when he died. It
transpires now that Kohler didn’t have a happy time,
that there was dual control, and that the other half of
the management was against Kohler’s big plant. Anyhow,
when he died, work on it was stopped, though it was
nearly finished, and a plain battery was installed. To
wipe out the consequent debt, and to develop the mine
(really to prospect it, for it hasn’t been probed beyond
150 ft. yet) the cow has been bailed up again.
* * » *
Maoriland dredging figures : Up to the end of
last year 40 companies had paid dividends aggregating
£265,000. Gold won by these companies, 175,0000 z. ;
percentage of gold returned as profit, about 37. Chief
producers : Hartley and Riley, 18,5750 z. ; dividends,
£57,687 ; Electric, 11,7600 z., £31,200 dividends. Com-
panies that have paid more than £lO,OOO in dividends:
Clyde, Enterprise, Golden Gate, Golden Treasure, Junc-
tion Electric, Matau. The total capital of the 40 com-
panies is £310,000, and 13 of them have returned more
than their capital. Latest advices state : “ Dredging
matters have improved ; West Coast dredges are doing
well, while the Molyneaux dredges are beginning to get
returns again. Everything points to a steady recovery,
and the worst of the slump is over.” If anything worse
were to happen there would hardly be a solvent speculator
in Otago.


“Orient to Measure” Clothing.
New Patterns of Tweeds and Serge
FOR THE CELEBRATED
63/-
SAC SUITS
To Measure
OPENING.
SAMPLES and SELF-MEASUREMENT
FORMS FREE BY POST . . .
m
■
-•
PAVIP JONES^COMPANY
George and Barrack Streets, Sydney.
.pJ.BFECf
A ReVokitioo** Office Paste
You squeeze the Tube —the Brush will do the rest.
It’s the Quickest, Cleanest, Ev’ry way the best 1
There’s nothing like it, seek where’er you will.
The Weis Brush Sticker pastes neatly and won’t spill.
STICKS
It’s just the thing for the Bank,
Business House, Kindergarten,
School and General Purposes.
QUICK
SOLD IN THREE SIZES
3d., 6d., Is.
ON SALE AT
Stationers, Storekeepers,
Druggists, Photo. Supply
Houses, or
Australasian HARRINGTON & CO., Ltd.
Agents: *
66 King-street, Sydney and Brisbane
Agbnts:— GRAVEN & 00., 179 Oollins-street, Melbourne; A. h. TILL¥, 504 Hay-
street, Perth; P. ASH, Elizabeth-street, Hobart.
SOCIETY
LOEROY
LIQUEUR
BRANDY
Adelaide has been invaded by a lot of ex-
Sydney ’buses with the result (much to the chagrin
of the local tram companies) that the longest jour-
neys have been cheapened
to the humble brown.
The tram horses are
probably the worst
sufferers from
the new order
of things.
A BLUE BACKLOOK.
OLD BROWN (to prospective son-in-law): “What sort of a future have you?
YOUNG HABDY : “ Well, I haven’t much of a future, but I’ve got [?]ing past."
Melbourne takes its plague with intense
seriousness. When the abode of the sufferer— a,
wharf laborer—was located, two large policemen
were planted at the ends of the street and all
traffic was stopped. Then the patient Quantock
and family, and neighbor Tunks and family were
carried off to Coode Island Sanatorium. Next,
the house—a 5-roomed weatherboard cottage split
up to make two—was carefully fumigated. Then
the local council wanted to burn the place, and
the owner agreed to take £2O for the outfit and let
the council do as it was minded. Next, a couple
of inoculated Jaborers dismantled the concern and J
piled it up in the middle of the allotment and
started the bonfire, while part of the fire brigade
stood handy, and the infantile population of the
neighborhood occupied dress-circle seats on the
ejected furniture and cheered. Sydney does not
take its pest in that spirit; there is no hope of the
authorities burning Kidman’s Buildings.
* * * »
It was too soon, alas, for Sydney to
felicitate itself upon the departure of the Plague !
For the last 50 years a rich soil for the growth of
the Black Death and every other epidemic disease
has been carefully prepared under the auspices of
Sydney Corporation, up to recently a greedy,
corrupt, unhallowed body consisting chiefly of
low, rum-sodden publicans, dirty butchers who
killed pigs and calves in the yards of their city
shops, and soulless landlords who squeezed the
highest rents out of their slums. Think of the
beautification and sanitation of the most naturally-
charming of all Australian cities having been en-
trusted for all these long years to a gang out of
the gin-mills and the abattoirs—-to bloated savages
educated among the curses of drink-mad convict-
spawn and the shrieks of dying swine ! Sydney
has sown ; now comes harvest-time.
* • • *
The murder of the servant-girl Maher by
her “boy” Lynch at the gates of Melb. General
Cemetery the other night is an exact parallel of
a crime which occurred in Melbourne about 10
years ago. A tram-conductor named Wilson
suspecting his girl (also a servant) of infidelity,
went for a stroll in the -Darling Gardens, Colling-
wood, one night, and, in the midst of their
embraces,'Cut her throat with a razor. Then he
went calmly home, and remarked casually to his
brother, “I cut Stella’s throat to-night.” The
brother advised him to tell the police, and being
assured that such was the proper procedure
Wilson at once did so. He was duly hanged,
being one of four who provided executions
for four successive Monday mornings. Another
of the four was also named Wilson, and had also
murdered a servant-girl—a Jewish servant-girl,
which is a very rare combination.
* • * *
A Sydney firm is advertising a hypo-
dermic svringe outfit “ for injection of strychnine
in case of snakebite.” It can also
be used for the injection of mor-
phia in cases of drug madness,
and the advertisements should,
in the interests of the public,
be withdrawn. Drug fiends are
getting so common
that stringent steps
need to be taken to
restrict by law the
sale of the injection
paraphernalia.
The names of some very notorious persons
are retained on the Victorian register of medicoes.
It is impossible to wipe the name of anybody,
even a straight-out murderer, off the list so long
as he has any recognised tail of letters after his
name and doesn’t change his address without due
notice. But any medico who has inadvertently
failed to inform the controlling board that he is
not living where he used to, but has shifted to
Melbourne Gaol or other new quarters, is liable
to be struck off without a moment’s notice.
Dredged out of Sydney’s beautiful harbor
for the month :—
143 cats, 196 dogs, 277 fowls, 70 bags of
meat, 54 bags of fish, 2 pigs, 4 sheep, 1
flying fox, 1 goat, 1 oalf, and 5 hens.
SHE: “ Who's afraid!”
A prose poem by “ Hermes ” :
Dear Bulletin.— l have coftie back to beautiful Sydney,
after vears of absence, and, the first evening of my return,
I went up Lane Gove River, by a newly-scrubbed steamer,
and revelled in its loveliness. It was such an evening as
you meet with in dreams and poems and pantomimes.
Across the liquid glory rested a bar of dove-tinted cloud,
veined through and through with dull carmine, and out
of the chrysoprase sky, the glittering water, and the sun-
set fire, blew a wind laden with the odor of carbolic acid.
The boat glided on. The dove-tinted bar turned dusky-
grey, and the carmine edging to argent and opal,
and the sky took on a deeper tint and glowed over a pic-
ture of a dainty home, bowered in roses. A disinfected
girl chased a beautiful disinfected child across a lawn
smelling of chloride of lime till they were lost in a wilder-
ness of flowers, that stretched down to the water-wall.
The evening breeze sighed across from that rose garden,
and blew athwart a tall, pale Board of Health notice about
the killing of rats. The boat glided on. The sinking sun
streamed one great shaft of red through a gap in the trees
and the wall of hills, and it fell over the feathery gums,
the flower-bowered houses, and glowed goldenly in the
windows, and streamed down a red-sand road, where a
red-cross ambulance travelled swiftly towards the mass of
drif ting vapor that veiled the city. A girl with golden hair
and a face like a Madonna, and wearing the new patent
anklets that keep bubonic fleas from climbing up your
stockings, stood at a gate with her head framed in blos-
soms. We passed rocky ledges, wildernesses of feathery
gums, homes in which the lights were beginning to glim-
mer, and little groups of children paddling in the water.
A noble-looking man, smelling of eucalyptus, came on
board, also a lady with a moth-ball in her pocket.
In a shady garden, all flowers and fern-bowers, a
pretty girl was carrying away a dead rat with a pair of
tongs. Then we disembarked at a disinfected bridge that
had had Condy’s fluid poured over it, and the lingering
sun went down, and all the world was dark.
* * * *
A Brisbane Courier correspondent:
The prolonged stretch of dry weather was affecting very
adversely the whole of West Moreton, and particularly
the district within the Fassifern electorate. It was at
length resolved that two days for humiliation and prayer
for rain be set aside, namely, Thursday week last, and
Tuesday of last week. The meetings on the first day
were held at Boonah, and they were very solemn and
impressive. The doxology had been pronounced scarce
fifteen minutes when clouds began to gather in the most
unlikely quarter, with the result that rain fell over the
district the same night, and again on the two following
days. On Tuesday, the afternoon meeting at Milbong
was not followed, but heralded, by thunder in the dis-
tance. What was witnessed on this occasion ? As soon
as the service closed the people hastened to their vehicles
and saddle horses, for “ there was a sound of abundance
of rain.” Like Elijah of old, however, on the occasion of
the breaking-up of the disastrous Samaritan drought,
several were wet through ere reaching home. In all, an
average of from 3in. to 4ih. of rain has fallen over a very
wide extent of country, whose aspect has in consequence
undergone a complete transformation. The speedy
Divine response, etc., etc.
. And Philp has men of that sort in the country
and doesn’t use them to altogether avoid droughts!
• • * *
“Yarrum” : I’m not at all surprised at
tragedies, after the manner of that at Towitta,
occurring now and again. What beats me is that
they are not more frequent. I knew an old Ger-
man* blacksmith, in Australia, who was in the
habit of sending his daughter (over 14) into the
bush for the day, charcoal-burning, with a man
he scarcely knew as sole companion. Seems
nothing ever happened; but that was not the
blacksmith’s fault.
“ Bilby ” : We are a long-suffering people.
It seems now to be an understood thing
that at every popular spot on a Sunday
afternoon there shall the Harmy be
gathered and braying together.
.Amongst the attractions offered
by one particular branch is a
real live buck nigger, who
claims, at the top of his
voice, to have been
saved, and a worn-out
old Doll Tearsheet with
a tambourine. She goes
dancing about on two
faded legs “doing a
scoot round for the
Loid,” as she says, and
implores the onlookers
to “chuck in” something
for the “Almighty.” An
exceeding bitter cry of
“ Hallelujah ! ” _ greets
each flying coin, and
then, the public purse
being exhausted, the Army
empties itself of the last
terrible yell that is in it and
goes home. The Army makes
its last stand for the night
before my house, so it disposes
of all the yell it has left before it
departs.
The Old Age Pension Act has
proved quite a boon to the country
paragraphist. Nothing happens in
ordinary seasons in the bush except
the occasional death of an old man, and one old
man is so exactly like another that there was
never much to say about the old man. Now,
the bush paragraphist is able to say that he was
an old-age pensioner, or that he ought to have
been, and these two facts fill many a weary space
in the ’possum and native-bear press.
It has often been said that Senator Symon
holds life and death in his hands in S. A., and the
Schippan case gives another proof of it. His fine
speech was less a plea for innocence than a brilliant
argument to the effect that there_ was no sufficient
proof of guilt, and a bitter driving home of the
fact that the legal error which is hanged six feet
above ground is past remedy. The summing-up
was deadly in its suggestions of the improbability
that the prisoner’s story carried. But the. verdict
was “ not guilty,” as it almost invariably is when
Josiah Symon undertakes the defence. The jury’s
decision is practically a declaration of the jury’s
belief in the Strange Man theory, and, according
to all logic, the search for that shadowy person
who broke in, and didn’t steal, and didn’t even
bring his own knife with him to do the horrible
and purposeless deed, and left no footmarks, and
was seen by nobody as he fled out of the neighbor-
hood, should be resumed with extra vigor. But
nobody appears to think of resuming it.
* * • *
The excitement amongst the women of
Adelaide over the trial of Mary Schippan for the
alleged murder of her sister reached the dimensions
of hysteria. One group of five arrived at the door
of the court-house about eight o’clock every
morning of the trial, armed with lunch-bags and
some babies. They had especially hard luck and
failed every day to get admission. But they hung
round the steps for ten solid hours each day,
ready to snatch at any crumb of information that
the wind might bring out, making short runs into
the building and being swept out again, and
hanging on to the coat-tails of people who emerged
to ask how the prospects of a hanging were looking.
At last the husband of one of them —a bearded,
burly person with clay on his clothes—broke up
the sitting. Having waited in vain on four
evenings for his six o’clock tea, he. appeared on
the scene and threatened to administer publicly
to his hysterical female that which, if applied
privately, might reduce her mental temperature to
the vicinity of the normal and do her no harm.
Then he took her home in custody.
• • * *
The Adelaide crowd of hysterical women
and miscellaneous hoodlums “ laid for ” Gustave
Nitschke, the lover of Mary Schippan, who gave
away the fact that she had loved him unwisely,
for several days before they got a fair chance to
pursue him in the street and relieve him of a little
skin and hair. It was a tumultuous proceeding,
and reflected no credit on anybody concerned.
Nitschke certainly showed himself an abject fool
for telling the truth, but the Truth is supposed to
be a beautiful thing, and when a man is chased by
1000 women, hoodlums and small boys for not tell-
ing a lie, it shows that the animal which lives at
the bottom of a well is less appreciated than is
supposed. Nitschke made a scared and undigni-
fied spectacle running from the mob, and,
at the same time, he showed a lack of sprint-
ing capacity which was disappointing in this
land of athletics. The crowd badly wanted
to hit Nitschke when it had him cornered, but
most of it was plainly afraid. The pursuing party
couldn’t run worth a cent, any more than the
pursued. And Adelaide never really knew before
that it possessed so many women who could swear,
and who became so hot and floppy and down-at-
heel when they tried to do a brief canter. A
baggy woman, dripping with anger and perspira-
tion, with her skirts held up and her stockings
(with holes in them) coming down, her hair any-
how and her hat askew, and her head smoking
with heat and excitement, making very bad time
along the street and using strong language, isn’t
calculated to encourage any man in thoughts of
matrimony. A man with an eye to artistic effect
AFTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
VIE.
Thistle-down, thistle-down,
Blowing, dropping, flying—
Thistle-down, thistle-down!
’Fraid her heart is crying
(While I’m sunk in studies brown)
“ Love’s as light as thistle-down ! ”
And I fear she’s sighing 1
Thistle-down, thistle-down,
Dancing, pausing, twirling :
Thistle-down, thistle-down !
See Hope’s flag is furling. . .
Sadly—in the empty town
Clouds o’ dust,,and thistle-down—
Heart and brain a’ whirling !
Thistle-down, thistle-down,
Turning, rising, sinking ;
Thistle-down, thistle-down—
Bitter cup she’s drinking. . .
Lips a’ tremble—eyes a’ drown,
“ Love’s as light as thistle-down ! ”
Wonder if she’s thinking ?
JESSAMY BRIDE.


J.D.K.Z. GIN.
♦
Mean. JN. DE KUYPER & ZOON’S famous
Gin has been established no less than 207 years,
and to-day enjoys the distinction of being the
most popular stimulant in the world. Its medi-
cinal qualities surpass those of any other spirit—
where a health and life-giving stimulant is re-
quired it will do all that the best brandy can do,
but is much superior for liver and kidney troubles.
Those who are particular about the quality of the
liquid they take, ask for J.D.K.Z. Agents for
N.S.W,, LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie-
Place, Sydney.
HP
R
AFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY, Is., 2s. 6d., 65.,
for all Diseases of the Air Tracts.
R
R
AFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY,
Being- Genuine, no one is duped.
AFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY,
is daily Saving Sufferers from Operations.
AFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY, sent complete,
throughout Commonwealth, post 7s. (id
AFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY,
Rapid and Permanent, for the Ears, Throat, Nose.
RAFFANj Pharmacist, Melbourne.
fsd
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette, and Sailing List with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N.S. Wales: Sayers,
Allport and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
SILVER STAR STARCH.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lage
*1 JOUSNESS , MVER
*r anp Troubles.
would much rather have married neat-looking
Mary Schippan, then in the dock with all her
suspicions thick upon her, than the average in-
dignant female who took up her cause so warmly
outside. Mary, even then, was only suspected of
murder. Her friends outside were mostly con-
victed of bagginess, which is a far worse sin.
AN OLD CHESTNUT WITH A NEW
ILLUSTRATION.
THE MAN : “ G’day, Miss, is the doctor home?”
THE MISS : “ Yes.”
THE MAN : “ Well, yer’l oblige me very much if
you’d ars’t ’im fur a pair of ’is ole pants, as
that ther dory of ’s has damaged mine.”
THE MISS: “I’m the doctor.”
Already it is announced in the Watchman,
the N.S.W. Orange organ, that parson Tremayne
Dunstan has “severed his connection with the
paper”—leaving pastor Dill Macky alone in his
glory. There, never yet was a paper on which
there really was room for two parsons. By the
way, Rev. Dill, as editor of an Orange paper,
doesn’t seem quite up to snuff. He runs a “ Little
Folks ” column, to which Winnie writes:—
Dear Auntie,—l am thirteen years old, I have one pet,
a galah parrot. It is very tame, and whistles a little. I
am trying to teach it to say “ Watchman.”
And yet it never strikes Dill to. add a footnote
telling little Winnie to teach her tame parrot to
be very mad and to yell “To hell with the Pope! ”
This is indeed editorial incompetence. Further
on an angel named Aggie, aged 14 years, breathes
this to the good pastor :
I would very much like to be one of your nieces. . . .
I have a beautiful black cat with yellow eyes; his name is
Tom. He is very fond of raw potato, and milk-shakes ;
he helps himself out of the milk-jug when nobody is
looking.
That cat’s yellow eyes are, of course, all right, but
if The Bulletin ran an Orange paper, it would
look askance at Tom’s Fenian diet, which is by no
means calculated to contribute to the pulling-
down of the Pope of Rome.
A Maorilander struck an original idea
last month. He was a night-watchman on
the wharves. A night - watchman’s wife has
many temptations, and this one’s wife, it
would appear from his story, was weak, and
finally fled with a caitiff, and started housekeep-
ing in another district. The injured watchman
followed, and, meeting her in the street, remon-
strated with her, and offered to forgive her, and
once more make her an honest woman. But
the lady, it is alleged, said she didn’t want
to be an honest woman, and was not seek-
ing forgiveness, and that living in sin had
a good many points about it. Then the
rejected one proposed to divorce her, so that the
other fellow could make an honest woman of her,
and she said she would consider that. They
walked home—-to her new and sin-smirched home,
to talk about it, and arrange what they were to
do. Arrived there, the night-watchman drew a
revolver and shot —not his wife, but himself. He
never even pointed the ‘ ‘ gun ”at her; he didn’t
call her any ugly names, but merely smiled sadly
and shot himself, and fell dead at her feet, and his
blood splashed over the seventeen-and-sixpenny
tan shoes her partner in sin had bought her. It
was a picturesque revenge and a tolerably satis-
fying one, when all the items are considered —the
shock, the horror, the publicity, the ruined tan
shoes, and the feelings of the other man when he
found what was lying dead on his premises.
* * * *
“ S.S.” : In your issue of Ist March you
did Victorian Chief Justice Madden an injustice.
He doesn’t always call the offending male in a
divorce suit a scoundrel—his vocabulary is by no
means so bald as that. He sometimes also alludes
to him as a “ monster,” a “ drunken beast,” and a
“good-for-nothing beast.” There is something
curiously womanlike in Judge Madden’s choice of
adjectives. But really there should be an Official
Bullock-Driver attached to Mr. Madden’s Divorce
Court, and the respondent and co-respondent
should be sent in to him, after the decision is
given, to be called bad names. When they are
not present, the reporters should be sent in to hear
what the Official Bullock-Driver would call the
offending parties if they were there.
* * * *
Open Letter Open Sewer. Sydney
aphorism.
* • * *
Last plague year in Sydney a yellow-
haired, blue-eyed giant with a fierce expression
haunted the newspaper
offices to air a grievance.
He had devoted his
talents to rat-catching, a
rat being then worth
sixpence, and one Satur-
day he went down to the
Rat Bank to cash 33 in a
bag. He was moved to
this step partly by a
Saturday thirst, partly
by the fact that the
fellow-lodgers at his
boarding-house had be-
gun to remark on the
audible smell from be-
neath his bed, where he
saved up the daily haul
until there was a suffi-
cient accumulation to
take to the bank. But
this Saturday it hap-
pened that Governor-
General Hopetoun had
arrived and consequently
the rat was closed.
So the catcher took his
bag back and faced the
loud scorn of the board-
ing-houseas best he could.
Very early on Sunday
morning, followed by 121
sniffing dogs, he went
down to the rat depot
again, and again found it
closed. To throw away
33 rats was to sacrifice 16s. 6d., and so the rat-
catcher went home again and sat on the bed all
day guarding his treasures from violence. Towards
night the house rose in revolt, and the landlady
had to tell him that the rats must go, whether he
went with them or not. And sadly he took up
his 16s. 6d. worth of wealth and camped
with it in the Domain that night. On Monday he
got cash for his rats, but no compensation for the
fact that he had been evicted with contumely
from his happy home through the rat-burners
going to run after Lord Hopetoun. When The
Bulletin met that man he was profoundly dis-
loyal in consequence, and it wouldn’t be surprising
to find that he is now a pro-Boer.
• * • *
Queenstown (Tas.) bank robbery proved
to be the usual kind of episode. The teller was
friends with a postal official, and they speculated
in mines together until they had amassed a deficit
as proportionately alarming as that with which
Philp has loaded Queensland. Then the postal
official dropped around one night, gagged and
bound the teller in a friendly kind of way, and
relieved the bank of £5884. The teller, it" tran-
spired in evidence, had, up to the date of arrest,
only got £2O out of the booty—an inadequate
sort of return for the risk run and the discomfort
of being gagged and bound—even in a friendly
kind of way.
* * * »
Item in the Grafton (N.S. W.) Benevolent
Asylum’s balance-sheet: “To moneys found in a
deceased patient’s boots, £2. ”
IN PUSH SOCIETY.
S HE: “ Bli’me, Chilla, you've got the best of this
bargin, orlright.”
H E: “Garn, whatter yer givin ’ us; why you can
scoff the toke, but I can’t eat the bloomin’
kid.”
Premier See has ordered that Sydney’s
water supply shall not be used for garden purposes
whilst the drought lasts. Possibly this is with a
view to urging on another Joss intervention.
When the Chinese vegetable gardens are thus
threatened with extinction the rain-sending Joss
should come down with several inches.
* * * *
The precautionary destruction of rats is
sometimes a danger in itself. A Port Melbourne
councillor brought before the local council at its
last meeting the fact that children were in the
habit of bringing dead rats to the depot in the
same baskets which they used to convey their
lunches to school. Small boys frequently arrive
at Melb. depots and drag out of their bulging
pockets masses of something which they proceed
to sort-out marbles, tops, pieces of twine,
chewing-gum, and the inevitable defunct rats.
One day recently a deadly fight raged over the
ownership of a rat, and ended in the dead plague-
disseminator being torn to pieces and two indig-
nant infants endeavoring to get half the premium
apiece for disgusting scraps of hair, ears and tail.
• * * *
“D.W.” : It is broadly true that the
songs of persons in prosaic and uncouth positions
ever incline towards delicacy
and pathos. Who ever heard
a larrikin push
singing any-
thing Bacchan-
alian or royster-
ing ? Beer and
stoush are not
surr o u nded
with any halo
of romance by
those who deal
in them nightly.
The larrikin
always sings of
“Poor Old
Dad,” or “The
Flower from
My Angel Mo-
ther’s Gryve,”
or of the man
who lay down and
died because of his
unrequited love.
It is the pale clerk
who is the most
warlike, and the
decadent artist
with the hollow chest who
aspires to be a buccaneer. And
what is the ditty most favored
by Phyrne? Nothing with a suspicion of friskiness
m it. She stands by the side of the docile pianist
pouring all her soul into “ The Holy City.”
• * * *
Catmittee of Melb. Women’s Hospital
seems to have caught its tail in a cleft stick. It is
definitely stated that there has not been one reply
to the advertisement for doctors to take the
places of the men who refused to be bossed by the
old ladies with itching ears and elevated noses. The
post of resident medical officer is being filled tem-
porarily by Dr. Shields (gaol-surgeon), an amiable
old boy whose strong-minded wife has taken a pro-
minent part in the present trouble. Now the Cat-
mittee places its last, forlorn hope in the new-
fledged medical students who, in a few weeks, are
to complete their fifth year of study. Unfortuna-
tely for the Catmittee, however, the apprentices
are likely to prove as stubborn as the masters,
notwithstanding a, tempting offer of “representa-
tion on the Catmittee for consultation purposes.”
But even if the Catmittee succeeded in its latest
weird project, there would be large possibilities
of trouble with so raw and inexperienced a staff.
The odds seem to be that the Cat gathering will
have to give up control of the hospital.
Brudder Sam Snark,
it is always being an-
nounced, has been pre-
sented by the Small Dog
branch of the A.N A.
with the A.N.A. gold
pendant, at a “ mock
banquet.” In Australia
50 men out of 100 wear a
medal of some sort for
something or other ; and
the most striking medal
of all is usually that
given to the young man
(mainly by himself) “in
recognition of his ser-
vices as master of cere-
monies, season 1901, at
the Woolloomooloo
Dancing Academy.” At
school the Australian
boy is given medals for
swimming, cricket, run-
ning, blat-herskiting,
Christian conduct, and
keeping his hands clean.
Coming out into the
world lie, as often as not,
becomes a Mason, or a debat-
ing society nuisance, or an
A.N.Aite, and again medals are thickly fall-
ing around him, and he has to be a very
decent fellow indeed, with no idea of servility
or bounce, and no highly-developed foolishness,
to avoid all of them. A safe rule for judging
your fellow-man: He who has to carry about a
medal to show his importance is of no importance.
• * * *
A couple of laborers were haled before
Melb. Police Court recently for the heinous offence
of throwing a few plugs of tobacco over the
Pentridge prison wall, and Panton, P.M., held
that the outraged majesty of the law could only be
repaired by a sentence of six months’ imprison-
ment in each case. On the previous day, an old
offender, against whom there were 18 previous
convictions, including one of manslaughter, was
presented to the Ballarat East beaks for assaulting
his young niece, who had defended her mother
from his brutality. The ruffian blackened her
eyes and cut her nose and mouth out of recogni-
tion. In his case a sentence of three months
was considered adequate. The Lord defend us
from justices’ justice !
* • * *
One of the last acts of Cardinal Moran
before leaving Sydney was to purchase several
acres adjoining the Seminary grounds at
Manly. The area which now passes to Holy
Church was formerly a common resort for hugging
pairs ; and one of the reasons for the purchase is
said to have been that the attention of the
Seminary priestlings was apt to be drawn from
higher things, by observing, through field glasses,
the wanderings of frivolous humanity among the
thickets. Now all temptation has been removed,
uidess the shocked priesthood gets a stronger
glass. There are grumblings in consequence, if
BAD MAN.
“ You ought to be ashamed of yourself the way
you carried on with that Miss Toots. Don't
you know you're a married man !”
“'Course, I do—but Miss Toots didn't."
not from the Seminary, at any rate from the pic-
nicking public barred from one of its favorite
haunts.
That atrocious pile, Kidman’s buildings,
Sydney, is, it would appear, built of old bricks
from the ancient Sydney Infirmary. It has now
been the scene of two far-apart outbreaks of
Plague. Verily the Black Death knows where to
seek suitable lodgings.
THE BURNS STATUE.
Bathurst (N.S. W.) is about to erect a statue to
Robert Burns. The Highland Society lias sub-
scribed £lOO to the fund. Numerous other Burns
societies are also subscribing. And Lord Hope-
toun has promised to unveil the statue.
What statue needs the Bard of Ayr—
What sham memorial urns—
When Scotsmen carry everywhere
The name of Robert Burns ?
I see my Robert throned on high
Above this small iclat —
A-gauging with his humorous eye
Casks of ambrosia.
When Scotland was from West to East—
Below the Highland Line —
Owned by the Laird and sour-faced Priest
And damn-to-hell Divine—
When every strutting little loon,
Whose kin a laird should ken,
Could go and take the causey’s croon
And spit on better men.
Then midst that solemn sour-eyed gang.
And ilk, and kith, and clan,
He rose the first who ever sang
The Ballad of a Man.
The Ballads of the Border Frays,
The songs of Sword and Lance,
Were past, and all the Singing Days,
With Mary—and Romance.
■ The sweet old Scottish Muse seemed dead—
The Ploughman struck the lyre,
And filled again her veins with red,
And set her heart afire.
He little recks of creed or clan,
Or fanes or statues fair,
God’s noblest Home-made Gentleman,
My friend, the Bard of Ayr.
V.J.D.


IF YOU WOULD . . .
“Stand on ||elvet”
MARK ROT’S
10s. BOOT
A Combination
Of COMFORT,
NEATNESS
and
GOOD WEAR
is
What You Want!
f
BW
Gold
Medal
Do you like Coffee?^
Perfect, Pure,
Fragrant, Exhilarating Coffee
Then Try
k. sunns
Coffee Essence
THE VERY BEST
Australian Representatives:
SWIFT & COMPANY,
7 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY.
e&mmm
se
SI IN Ittt;
All Drapers Everywhere.
HE IS 21 t»
and should have a Watch, of course
WHERE TO GET IT?
is readily answered when you know
We carry the largest retail stock of Watches
in Sydney.
We do more—we carry the lowest-priced
stock of Watches in Sydney.
We are Sole Agents for P. & A. Guye’s
“ London-made ” Levers.
We pay Spot Cash for our Watches in
London— English Levers, Walthams,
El gins, Rotherhams, and the celebrated
“ Fx & R ” Levers all at London Prices
still.
Fairfax* Roberts
London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER ST,
df
Cent.’B 180. Cold
f-Piate Levers,
extra Counter sunk
Jewellingr.
15 Years' Guarantee,
£l2 12s
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, March 18, 1902.
My Dear Arini.—
There’s a Duke staying at the Australia !
Just an over-grown, lanky, handsome lad of 15.
On the 17th of Ireland he wore shamrocks in his
coat —which, as he is Duke of Leinster, premier
peer of Ireland, wasn’t as singular as if he had
buttonholed a sunflower.
Portraits of Lady Rawson, our new Governor’s
wife, show her to be an aquiline-nosed, strong-
chinned, calm - eyed, generously - proportioned
British matron. Descriptions of her say she is of
medium height, with dark-blue eyes and dark-
brown hair, “just tinged with grey at
the temples. Every self-respecting, believing-
in-the-39-articles, middle-aged British matron
has those “tinges” of grey. Writers like
Mrs. Henry Wood, Annie Swan, and Rose Carey
wouldn’t pen and ink a B.M. without ’em. D.T.’s
interviewer of the Rawsons says that “ the five
years of exile in sight has no terror for Lady
Rawson.” “ Exile,” eh ! Well, anyhow, Sydney’s
a better place to exile in than Simonstown,
S’Africa, where her Ex. has lived four years lately.
Miss Rawson is a small, dark-haired, good-
looking girl of about 20, fond of riding and tennis.
New Governor himself is five feet nine and weighs
15 stone, so he ought to be a nice, jolly man.
Most gentlemen past middle age, whose skeletons
are only so well are they larded, are
nice and jolly.
Sydney society read without joy Governor
Rawson’s official statement to the press as to
“ ways and means” :
I intend to spend practically the Whole of my salary in
the State, but I am by no means a wealthy man. My
half-pay ceases on my taking up the new position, and,
while I am prepared to distribute widely the subscrip-
tions and contributions expected of me, they must
necessarily be restricted to modest amounts. Both
myself and my wife are fond of social life, and she and
my daughter will, of course, accompany me.
The majority of the State Governers in the past
have been compelled to spend a good deal more
than their salaries in satiating the local thirst,
and seeking the bubble popularity at the bottle’s
mouth. A Governor who is going to spend some-
thing less than the whole of a reduced screw will
at least be able to get to bed a little earlier than
some of his predecessors.
Miss Gertrude Ewan, second daughter of Mr
James Ewan, Glenleigh station, Penrith (N.S.W.),
is to be married presently to Dr. George Arm-
strong, who, as Sydney City Health Officer, goes
round town carefully handling plaguey rats with
a pair of antiseptic tongs. Bride’s mother is a
sister of Dry D. Reid. The Ewan maidens seem
to have an attraction for medical men; eldest is
married to Dr. Murray Will.
Sister Nixon, who has been “ handed ” her red-
cross badge by the King, is a daughter of General
Nixon, an English artillery officer. She had had
nursing experience in England before she came to
Sydney to join the staff of the children’s hospital
at the Glebe. Now, after nearly two years’ work
in S’Africa, she turns up in London, highly re-
commended by the Commander-in-Chief for the
Y.C. of the Nursing Sisterhood. Seems rather
off-handed of his Majesty to “ hand” the badges ;
why didn’t he pin them on ? Miss Nixon’s portrait
shows her in evening dress, bare arms and
shoulders, a pince-nez, a strong face, and severely
brushed-back hair. Coiffure, expression, and
glasses do not accord with the fashionable undress.
In a cap and cloak, no doubt, she would look
Sister Elizabeth.
Seems to me that people, especially ftien, are of
late being cut off long before the psalmist’s
allotted span. One of the latest recorded deaths
of city men is that of Mr. Thomas Matthew
Alcock, the well-known Sydney jeweller, of
pneumonia, aged 54. Mr. Alcock, prior to 1872,
was a squatter in the Castlereagh district. Then
he came to Sydney, opened a business as jeweller
and watchmaker, and built up a big connection.
He leaves a widow, one daughter, and three sons.
Other day the City Coroner conducted an inquest
on the death of an infant named Edmund Bourke,
who was found in a paddock at Redfern with a
piece of calico tied tightly round his neck. This
infant, aged about two or three weeks, was not
then dead, but he died a few days later. Doubt-
less the Edmund Bourke (he was baptised that in
the Benevolent Asylum after being found) spook
is now added to the cloud of witnesses around the
men who could, but won’t, build foundling homes.
Now, why didn’t the wretched mother, instead of
choking her child to death by slow means, take it
up to the Waitara Foundling Home ? If asked
that, she would doubtless reply, quite truly per-
haps, “I didn’t know there was one!” The
world is full of people who “didn’t know.” Or,
perhaps, she hadn’t her fare from Redfern.
Some weeks ago a poor old woman, confessedly
ill, was before the court for “ no visible means of
support.” The magistrate offered her a chance of
going to Newington, the female pauper asylum,
but she pleaded to be sent to gaol instead. She
would rather die than return to Newington.
“They bathe thirty or forty women in one little
bath there,” she said, and the court shuddered,
and, in mercy, sent her to gaol. There’s some-
thing more wanted in Sydney than bible-reading
in State schools.
State Registry Office for women, opened last week,
was overrun from the first day by employers and
employees. “No fees ”is a magnet. A card is
issued to the lady who engages a servant with
headings: “From. To. Particulars of Work.
Cause of Leaving. Character.” Missus fills this
in when Augusta leaves, and returns it to the
Registry manageress. If several “characters” of
the same Augusta are unfavorable, she is struck
off the rolls —which isn’t likely to trouble her
much.
“Kill fear instantly in yourself and others.
Worry, Anger, Hate, and all unpleasant and acute
emotions, relieved instantly by the secret solar
plexus method. Write to-day for a free copy of
method.” That ad. might be profitably answered
by the people who are scurrying away from .plague
and avoiding churches and theatres for fear of the
small insect with the high jump. If the solar
plexus method be not one of the Psychioal
Research Company’s jokes, it ought to rank with
Marconi’s discovery.
Who wears the hats we see in the shop win-
dows? I have mentally ear-marked scores of
“ Paris models,” hoping to see one or other on a
head about town, but vainly. The new millinery
on view is much the same as that of last year.
The plateau hat, looking as though it had spent
the night screwed down in the letter-press,
and variations of the old toreador seem to be
the prevailing epidemic in hats—the other side
of the draper’s glass. Most of these plateau hats
are of fur, or velvet, or felt; one had a whole
animal, head and teeth, legs and tail—everything
but innards—on the crown. The animal was
dead. It did not belong to Australian fauna. I
read somewhere that Lady Helen Stewart, the
millionaire peer’s daughter, who married lately,
“ went away” in a hat which had a whole sable
on its crown, so the hat I saw in a George-street
window must be de rigueur, as they say at Bourke.
Some of the hats, though, have Australian flora
on them. One white felt had a lot of flannel-
flowers, and the hind part of another was loaded
with honey-gum blossoms. They didn’t look nice,
and you wouldn’t wear them for a salary, but they
give one a tender, patriotic thrill.
John Oliver Hobbes relates somewhere of a hat
she bought in Paris that she never looked at it
without experiencing des emotions. She never
wore it, but, by-and-bye, gave it to a friend, and
for months afterwards watched the papers to see
if that friend had come to a bad end or created
some public scandal.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Monday (10th) saw the exalted Exes, of the
Commonwealth perched on their coach watching
Colac and Melbourne fight for the Madden Polo
Cup at Kooyong. When the big breezy crowds of
‘sports’ had settled down to follow the points of the
game, their Exes, descended and joined the line of
spectators hanging like a concentration - camp
over the rails. Neither of the Hopetouns was
looking in the pink of condition. The Gov.-
General was certainly thinner and of jaundiced
aspect. ‘ Herself ’ looked less healthy, and a tight-
fitting, grey voile garb, with black lace perpen-
dicular lines down the skirt and ‘Sign of the
Cross ’ bars on the bodice, made her appear even
slighter. Back views of the rest of the long line
of Sassiety and sporting divinities were all broad.
The elongated back looks odd these days. The
Countess was colorless, but the vivid pink ruche of
tulle standing in prickly points about her neck,
and the similarly vivid pink toque atop her black
thatch, left the face in even more pronounced
pallor. A white and black brolly with an end
like a cigar-stump—all the more singular since
needle points are the vogue—shaded the
Countess from the gaze of the throng. It
also frustrated the attempts of the camera-
Johnnies to ‘snatch’ her. One pertinacious in-
dividual, with the name of Daily Bore printed
on his case, adjusted his camera a dozen times in
readiness for a shot, but that brolly remained at
high mast, shutting out the machine and the vul-
gar gaze. At last the Guv’nor grew sorry for the
patient ‘ snapper,’ so he quietly gave the photo,
man a nod and Her Ex.’s gamp a tilt to the other
side. The Countess looked round in surprise, and
the trick was done. A war smile crept to the
corners of Her Ex.’s mouth, but the Guv’nor fled.
“There was a good deal of fun over the omni-
potent camera that polo day. The A.N.A. Hope
of their Exes, had the latest-devised machine of
torture, and, with Mrs. Corbet’s guiding hand, he
manipulated it skilfully. This youngster strides
about like his father, plays the man with droll
unconsciousness, and manages to amuse his
difficult mamma. When taking snap-shots of the
suite he played the photographer—took some
strides backward, focussed the machine, waved
his Guv’nor aside with a ‘Kindly move, please,’
and took the V.R. group with business-like
gravity. He took a fancy to Miss Muriel Miller’s
mount, asked Mrs. Corbet to present him to the
rider, reached up and shook hands, then snapped
the steed and its mistress. Mrs. Corbet was in
blue —a Japanese silk. She has thinned down
somewhat, too, and presents in her nonchalant,
careless, easy style a restful contrast to the frigid
lady she attends.
“ Mrs. Bertram Armytage was singled out for
special honors that Monday. The dainty dame,
who looks little more than sweet seventeen, was
sitting with the Cumming party in a cab, when
the Guv’nor espied her, told the Countess, then
went off as a deputy to bring her to the holy of
holies—the spot consecrated to the Y.R. visitors.
And Sassiety interestedly watched Mrs. Armytage
being conducted over to Her Frigidity. A com-
mand from the Countess is rare. Mrs. Bertram
Armytage is a younger sister of Mrs. George
Chirnside—Melbourne society’s Clothes Queen.
“ The Hopetouns did not remain to present the
Madden Cup to the Colac winners. Mrs. L. C.
Mackinnon, who is short and stout, but very
proud in spirit, handed over the much-coveted
vessel to the champions. Two points were noticed
about the^ mere male’s dress at that outing. Ex-
Premier Shiels wore long, custard-yellow riding-
breeches, and Gov. Hopetoun custard-yellow
f loves. From the way Wally walked about in the
ot sunshine, wearing his overcoat, it doesn’t
seem as if Better-Not were quite himself yet.
Draper Mars Buckley drove the most swagger
turn-out to the tourney, and that was something,
considering that some luxurious and many expen-
sive vehicles helped to swell the line of carriages
surrounding the Y.R. coach and four.
_ “ The Mayoral shivoo was a large, representa-
tive, commonplace show, with diamonds, music,
and wine to fill in gaps. Mayoress Gillott, who
was on the eve of leaving for the Coronation,
practised a position of ease as she stood, in a
shimmering drab-silk, toned down with black
velvet allotments, on the dais, awaiting their
most exalted Exes. Some diamonds glistened
about the Mayoress’ prosperous person. The
appearance of the Countess, when she did come
with her Lord and followers, was a pleasant sur-
prise. She actually looked gay in an illuminating
outfit of white glace silk veiled in chiffon, on
which were wrought many lines of pink and gold
sequins. A train swept out from the spangled
■effect in a gush of foaming milk-white chiffon.
More of this soft stuff swathed the sequined
bodice. There were beacons of light on the neck,
shoulders, and in the hair. Her Ex. was brief to
all who addressed her excepting Surgeon Fitz-
gerald, who, by the right of past repairs to her
Ex.’s person, leaned at the back of her chair and
held friendly confab. Looming large in the busy
thoroughfare of the dais were Senator O’Connor,
showing an immense island of shiny shirt and
white collar; Archbishop Carr, of large bulk,
in his black and purple robes; and the dapper
Federal Commandant, with alert eyes, and
some shining medals decorating his front.
Lady Hutton _was in the very van of
the smartest with a black gown of cute
build frothing into a dream of chiffon about
the shoulders. A diamond tiara and neck pend-
ants gave the wearer more status with the starers
from the balcony. The Cliveden Dowager, whose
light grows dismally dim when the haughty
Countess rules the roost, was girlish in her white
satin with its great boundaries, down the right
side, of mauve masses, composed of orchids and
tulle. The Dowager’s illuminations were of a
notable order. But the person who shone, inde-
Eendent of fitful diamond gleams (though she
oasted many herself) was Treasurer Turner’s
wife. She was the choicest and brightest woman
in the gathering.
. Of the flutterers in the throng, Mrs. Septimus
Miller won easily by a slender and much-
diamond ed neck. A frock of white silk ground,
with isolated roses of blush-pink hue strewn
thereon, had toney touches of black velvet and
real lace to deck it. Diamonds were sported
profusely. If Mrs. Septimus would only shake
on the tired feeling, and not sit like her grand-
sire in alabaster—. The Prime Minister had
his classical grey locks neatly combed on the slant.
Premier Peacock’s laugh reported that person’s
presence distinctly.
“ At the Gillott conversazione, Gov. Hopetoun’s
appearance recalled Euclid’s definition of a line—
‘length without breadth,’ while his host, the
Mayor, looked just the opposite— ‘breadth with-
out length.’ The Gillott, of course, seemed
dumpier than he really is, thanks to bunchy furred
robes. Personages need to be tall. The seats of
the Mighty, in the beginning, were built for the
big and the beautiful. Nowadays, they are
jumped by the canny rather than the comely;
still, from a spectacular point of view, it’s for-
tunate when brains perch on top of a draped May-
pole (vide His Ex.-in-chief) instead of on an
upholstered dumb-bell (N. 8., his Worship).
“Some of the municipal and suburban crowd,
gloating over the scene from the balconies, raised
one another’s hair with their reminiscences. The
voice of one moneyed dame rang out to this effect:
‘We were in business ourselves then, and She
dealt from us, and always bought her candles one
at a time. We pressed her to take half-a-pound
at once, and settle when it suited her, but she’d
say ‘ Not me ! I take nothing I can’t pay cash for,
or I’d soon be in a hole.’ Surely the husband of
such a wife has the gratitude to say sometimes :
‘ That woman made me a financier.’
“ The supper-walk, led by the short Gillotts,
paired with the long Hopetouns, had a rehearsed
air, as if marshalled with low-comedy intentions.
“Mrs. Corbet, Lady Hopetoun’s chum, appeared
smart in pale-green and silver, till she flung her-
self into a chair and abruptly crossed her ankles,
thereby revealing black shoes and tan hose.
People were kow-towing and bowing over Arch-
bishop Carr’s hand, as if they were back in the
Feudal Ages. Neither York nor Hopetoun
demand anything like this reverence ; at least, if
they do, they don’t get it. I don’t suppose King
Ned himself does when playing guest at a sub-
ject’s party. Still, this religious posturing must
improve Roman Catholic deportment. There’s
such a thing as being too stiff-necked and starch-
backed.
“ Sassiety has a new engagement to hum about
—that of Miss Muriel Miiler, youngest daughter
of the sporting Albert Miller, whose house,
‘Whernside,’ is one of the gilded mansions of
Toorak, to Mr. Allan Currie, a western squatter
of many fertile acres. The newly-engaged girl is
young. She has only had about two seasons of
Melbourne Society.
“The hitching-up of cricketer HughieTrumble,
the daddy of our ‘Flannelled Fools,’ with the
much-dowered Miss Florence Christian, gathered
a record attendance at St. George’s Church, Mal-
vern, on Wednesday (12th). On account of the
season of ling-fish and pea-soup, decorations were
off, so the thick throng of starers had not one
autumn leaf to distract them from the knot-
tying. Pearls and point lace were details in the
bride’s ivory-satin turn-out. The two sisters of
the bride provided more ivory silk sheen. Mr. J.
Page Sharp and Mr. Arthur Aitkeh looked after
the tall, big-shouldered, blushing bridegroom.
Floral decorations and any amount of cheerful
music were turned on at the Christians’ comfort-
able home—Myoora, Caulfield—when the stiffness
of the new yoke wore off, and the bridal pair
rejoiced with a great host of friends. The
Trumbles follow the Australian Eleven in the
Oceana.
“Mrs. Duncan Macvean has nobly done her
duty to her native State by adding another small
boy to this manless population. The event
occurred at Cliveden, E. Melb., a week ago.
Mrs. Macvean (Miss Gertrude Snodgrass) met
with a serious accident a few years ago, which it
was at first thought would end fatally, but the
plucky lady struggled through it.
“The Widow of Cliveden is on the eve of her
departure for England to gaze upon the august
Edward putting on his gold hat. (Must adopt
some kind of periphrasis; one’s pen jibs at writing
‘Coronation’ so often.) Wherefore she is being
farewelled in a semi-royal way by all the hole-and-
corner little cliqueries that up to Janet Lady
as their social guiding light.
“Old Melbourne friends of Lord Richard
Nevill are shocked to hear that dull but holy
Adelaide has driven him to the Criminal Court in
search of excitement. Report says that the
elongated aide was given a seat beside Chief-
Justice Way during the Schippan trial.
“ An English theatrical-jotter, writing of Ada
Reeve, says he has just been to hear her sing the
sort of maudlin little song about a child (some-
thing like ‘ My daddy’s a gentleman,’ I guess) he
particularly hates, and yet she served it up so
daintily he forgave her. The secret of her dainty
finish he ascribes to the fact that she came from
the theatre to the halls, so that she’s no rough-
hewn diamond. Ada told said critic something
of her childhood. Her father was a hard-up actor,
and to make both ends meet he rigged up a little
platform, bought a baby-harmonium, and took
little Ada to collect the pennies while he sang on
the sands in the Isle of Wight in the summer holi-
days. Ada had to chirp a tiny song, too, and
was terribly nervous. Someone in the crowd took
a fancy to the timid little warbler and volun-
teered to sing ‘Sweethearts and Wives,’ which he
did in grand style. Ada thought him a prince
because of his fine raiment and openhandedness
re the collection. He proved to be Charles God-
frey—a good friend later to Ada. ,
“People driving to Flemington are much struck
by the blank cannon that point their muzzles
from each side of the Newmarket Town Hall.
The lotfal townspeople have gone beside them-
selves over this flash new building. There are
fine large billiard-rooms for the councillors, and
quite the conveniences of a club inside the pros-
perous-looking building. Garden plots are in
bloom all round, but the cannon take the cake.
Newmarket is the famous locality of smells and
stables.
“James Hingston, of Melb., whose death in
London was cabled last week, will be remembered
as much for his oddities as for his munificent charit-
able donations. Reputed enormously wealthy in
pre-boom days, after the crash he always spoke of
himself as a ruined man. And he acted as such,
for, although worth over £50,000, he lived in
his bedroom at the George Hotel, St. Kilda,
furnished in the usual bedroom style
with a big table for his books and papers.
Here he spent his evenings for increasing deaf-
ness drove him from society—a lonely old age for
such a well-read man and brilliant talker as
‘J.H.’ He knew everybody in Melbourne, and
used to shout family histories as if he were crying
‘ Rabbits ! ’ summing up a tragedy of three
generations in about a dozen words.. It was his
fad to talk the most atrocious English, dropping
every ‘h ’; also he was wildly unusual, and did
such odd things, and said things so much odder,
that conventional folks looked on him with alarm.
He was immensely proud of his little economies,
and used to describe minutely his devices for
saving 2d. on his wash-bill. He had a trick of
giving the weirdest wedding-presents ever in-
vented-characteristic but decidedly cheap, but
his miserly little ways made an ineffectual covering
for a heart of gold. His two pet antipathies were
borrowers and married folk. If his friend married
he dropped him at that. Last of all he was one
of the most delightful letter-writers in the English
language.
Yours affectionately,
AKENHI.


■
BULLETIN SUBSCRIBERS
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing, whose distant vision is dull and who suffer
from persistent headaches or pains after close application—you
may rest assured that vou are suffering from Ageing or
Impaired Vision, and Need Glasses. You should visit
us, and have your sight scientifically tested, and be supplied
with Glasses adapted to your individual case.
TO COUNTRY READERS who cannot visit us personally, we send, Pirot I) we to any address, with full instruc-
tions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate and popular SELF SIQHT-MEASUBING PATENT. By its use
you can Test your own sight and determine for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you may need.
Write for it to —
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Consulting Optician,
371 Geerge St., Sydney,
next door to the A.J.S. Bank.
King and George Streets.
And at 232 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, opposite Aon Office.
Wines
Australia.
L
NTEST
IN
Supplied to H.R.H. the Duke of York.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
“ Wanted, a son or two that will stick to
the family.”— General Booth. (Advt.)
A 35-year-old member of the Reps, is
about to marry a 17-year-old Brunswick (Vic.)
maid.
Ex-Governor Eyre, of South Australia and
Jamaica celebrity, died poor, his assets being
under £4OOO.
Perhaps the only dinner-service of gold-
plate in Australia is the property of a gilded
N.S.W. ex-Minister of the Crown.
The Austins (father and son), of Waterloo,
Sydney, were the first Jews in Australia to be
attacked by the plague. Both died.
A N.S.W. quack owns 70 houses, all
tenanted and not one tenant has a municipal vote !
And all this was made out of the young man who
fancied he wasn’t feeling well.
Vhile Dry Dog Reid is waiting for
cases to come on he dozes in a room at the
back of the court. Few politicians have slept in
so many public buildings as Reid.
Late John Lucas, M.L.C., was the light-
weight of a family of three brothers. The eldest
tipped the beam at 275 t., the next at 265 t., but
the Hon. John never got beyond 25Jst.
When C.-J. Darley ascended N.S.W.
Bench, four puisne Judges did the Supreme Court
work. Now six puisne Judges are in harness, and
the cry is for more. The four of 1886 T aweett,
Windeyer, Manning and Innes —are all dead.
An ex-M.L.A. is one of Melb. coroner’s
court pensioners, and earns his 4s. a day pretty
regularly on juries. As Melbourne provides
ab nit two dead bodies and one suicide per diem,
th s source of income is not so irregular as it
loo.ts.
John Andrew, who started the first news-
paper in Hay (N.S.W.), when the place was better
known as Lang’s Crossing-place, died there on
March 5. He founded the Standard, and was
proprietor of the Riverina Times at the date of
his death.
N.S.W. Railway Commissioner Kirkcaldie,
Traffic Supt. Harry Richardson, and the late
“Sandy” Richardson, Comptroller of Stores, all
joined the public service as porters in the early
seventies. 11 Sandy ” had been a lieutenant in the
British Army.
“ F.” : Thomas Dangar, who represented
the Upper Hunter in N.S.W. Legislative Assembly
in the early sixties, was born at St. Neots, Cornwall,
13th March, 1808; arrived in New South Wales,
13th March, 1825; and died at Lavender Bay,
13th March, 1878.
At the recent Methodist conference, the
Rev. Bleeds Fitchett, when returning thanks for
his election as first president of the united
churches, opened by announcing that, though he
had expected the honor, he had prepared no
speech—he had simply left the matter to Heaven.
Then followed the inspiration, from which it
would appear that the Deity isn’t used to the
stump-oratory business..
Old J. Gordon Stuart Grant, who died lately
at Dunedin (M.L.), was one of the perished
landmarks of early Otago. He was a vastly
learned Scotchman, and was imported to
fill one of the highest educational billets
in the country. He was a member of
the Provincial Council; also he was a
keen, trenchant and scholarly
writer, a hard critic, and posed
as a sort of local Carlyle. But
he was bitter, impracticable
and irreconcilable, with a
gift of making enemies
that was beyond ex-
pression. Por the last
20 or 25 years he
made a miserably
precarious living
selling his own
pamphlets in
the street —
clever and
learn ed
pamphlets
aboutevery
subject un-
der the sun.
He also put
up for Par-
liam e n t
now and
then, and
so complete
was his un-
popularity in
his declining
years that lie
averaged »bout
one vote. Old
Otago, when It saw the short, thick-set, clean-
shaven man with the hard contradictory face
bearing down on it hastened round the corner, and
Young Otago didn’t want his pamphlets. In his
latter days someone suggested raising a subscrip-
tion for the learned ancient who was against
everybody and everything, but he died before it
materialised.
Williamson Wallace, Victoria’s new direc-
tor of agriculture, who has just been brought out
frae Glescae at great expense, will probably find
that he made a huge mistake in failing to seal his
engagement for more than 12 months. No agri-
culturist, without experience of Australia’s climate
and soil peculiarities, can hope to even begin
doing things within three or four years, and new
pmn Wallace, with the baleful eye of David Syme
upon him all the time, undertakes to justify him-
self in a year.
Some of the ways N.S.W. Curator of
Intestate Estates is addressed by post:
“Ourio of Intestines, Sydney” ; “The Incubator of
Intestate Estates, Sydney ” ; “ The Incurator of Intestate
Estates, Sydney ” ; The Ouritor Diseased Estate,
Sydney”; “The Curator of Intestines, opposite Queen s
Statue.”
The N.S.W. Protestant Defence organ,
the Watchman, lovingly farewells Cardinal
Moran :
Cardinal Moran leaves our shores a convicted slanderer,
a bigoted strife-maker and partisan, but he has added to
the literature of youthful Australia the significant sen-
tence, “You’re a Cardinal.”
Adelaide millionaire Barr Smith aspires
to be cremated and he has given £lOOO towards
the erection of a furnace and chapel on the city
park lands. There was a great fight by con-
ventional earth-burialists before the Society was
allowed to take possession of a site.
“ S.S.” : Saw Graham Berry sitting on a
seat on the crowded Esplanade at St. Kilda on a
recent Sunday, very white and gaunt, close upon
80, and looking it. Nobody else in the big crowd
seemed to recognise the one-time masterful demo-
crat. Thegreatest Australian of his day isabsolutely
lost in the knight. Still, even a radical can
almost forgive Berry his title. As the man of his
day, he did his day’s work, and that covers many
things.
During last month Westralia has lost the
heads of its Railway, Detective, Agricultural and
Public Works Departments. Davies, the railway
boss, compulsorily resigned, Farley (detective) and
Lindley Cowen (agricultural) died suddenly, and
now O’Connor (P.W.D.) has suicided. The latter’s
great work was the Fremantle breakwater, which
enables the 12,000-ton leviathans to berth in the
Swan River hard by the railway station.
Chief-Justice Way’s summing-up in the
Schippan murder-case, though it reads as a marvel
of- lucid and exhaustive comment, really showed
his defective oratorical powers at their worst.
Particularly trying is Way’s fashion of leading up
to an obvious word, and then shying away from
it, and finally rushing into it at break-neck speed.
As a fair sample: “He then wiped his hands
on the—er—he wiped his hands—that is—his
hands on the towel.” It is difficult to say what
would happen to a worried Bar if it gave way to
its overpowering impulse, and all prompted him
by calling out “ towel ” in chorus.
A career of marvellous luck was cut short
last week when architect Fred. Fitts was acci-
dentally drowned at Lake Nagambie, Vic. Fitts,
who was a brother of “ the Australian Orpheus,”
entered the office of veteran architect Lloyd
Tayler as a boy, and had little more than attained
manhood ere he was admitted to partnership.
When Mr. Tayler died, a few years back, Fitts
carried on the big business alone, and practically
retained' the whole of it. As the firm acted for
many wealthy institutions, there should now be a
welcome distribution of patronage among the
rank and file of Melb. architects.
0. 0. Kingston has furnished the surprise
of the tariff debate ; he has been hardly more of a
roaring lion than suave George Turner, who sits
beside him. The fact is, Kingston has had heaps
of trouble. The tariff itself has not satisfied him;
he was, as to some things, badly advised by officers
whose measure he hadn’t had time to take, and he
has not had the heart to fight as he fights for what
he thoroughly adopts. And he has been ill.
Diabetes has been mentioned ; but, though it pro-
bably isn’t as bad as that, he has certainly aged
ten years in the last three. On top are domestic
QUITE SAFE.
“If you kiss me I'll
scream."
“ Then your mother will hear you.”
“Ho she won’t —the door’s shut.”
troubles, including the death of his son, a bright
feature in a home that Kingston can see but
rarely nowadays.
The new Assistant Under Sec. of N.S.W.
Lands and Wildernesses is Edward MacFarlane;
and boiling in fat awaits correspondent or printer
who drops the “ a ” in the Mac. o-r forgets the big
“F” in the Farlane. Sitting as chairman of a
Land Board in any wayback dusthole he used to
wear all the magnificence and dignity of the Chief
justice ; his was the only silk hat that scores of
the Billjims and Jemimas of the mulga country
had ever blinked at. But Chairman MacFarlane
wasn’t all dignity: and the decisions his board
POSTMASTER-GENERAL DRAKE.
gave were rarely disturbed. Over 20 years of his
service has been in the Far West, which always
reckoned to get a straight deal from him.
“A. Tramp,” a well-known Maoriland
pressman, was once taken ill at an up-country
township, and had to lie for some weeks at the
hotel. The cook and housemaid were indefatig-
able, not to say deafening, in attending to him,
but Tramp did not seem to appreciate their
efforts. One night there was a fancy-dress ball,
and the cook and maid, when they were dressed
ready to go, as Joan of Arc and Mary Queen of
Scots respectively, thought they would give him
a treat by letting him see them in their fancy rig-
outs. They tripped lightly into the room. “Good
evening, Mr. Tramp ; we’ve come to show you our
dresses.” Tramp raised his weary head from the
pillow, and gazed at the two fairy forms. “ Well,”
he said, sadly, “ I’ll do as much for you. If you
look at that nail behind the door you’ll see my old
pants hanging up.”
The published portraits of old father
Schippan, WilliamSehippanand Gustave Nitschke,
which adorned the accounts of the Towitta (S. A.)
tragedy, are in themselves a warning against
the evil habit of going on the land. The
favorite photo, represented three worn - out
and shapeless hats above three patient, weary,
vacant faces that condensed in their expres-
sion years of struggle with duststorms, drought,
rabbits, caterpillars and disappointment. The
three sat on a log, with a pump, a broken
fence and the tail-end of a horse in the background.
Old man Schippan in particular looked patient
enough to have sat on that log for ages. If the
Sphinx brought a sixpenny hat and went on the
land it would get just the same expression.
James Dick, the Glasgow leather-belting
man, whose death a private cable reports, was one
of the luckiest plungers in Australian, mines—
mainly because before he plunged (he came from
Glasgow) he measured the depth of water and
took its temperature. His biggest “punch ” was
in Broken Hill stocks, the result of a chance busi-
ness visit just after the railway was opened. A
little later he did what only one other of the
bullionaires did—made a handsome gift to the
local hospital for the relief of sick and battered
miners. Mr. Dick also held a third or more of
the Mitchell’s Creek Freehold, one of the most
consistent gold-raisers in N.S.W., and more
than that of the Scottish, at Gympie, but his
speculations in the N. Territory, which also
attracted him 12 or 15 years ago, only hatched
the customary white elephant.
Joseph Chamberlain as described by Wil-
liam Watson:
How describe him ? ’Midst a million he were easily dis-
cerned ;
You shall know him by the orchid in the coat that he has
turned.
You shall know him by the feather in the cap that he has
doffed
Unto all the brazen deities at all of whom he scoffed ;
By the grace of his allusions to the sponge that was out-
wrung,
Or the spoon that 3eems allied to something forkish in
his tongue ;
By the charm of that urbanity our German kin recall ;
By those suave and noble manners he has taught the
grateful Gaul.
Seer and sage, there is none like him, Britain’s Brumma-
gem High Priest;
Peel and Fox and Burke and Chatham were not like him
in the least.
James Hingston, notary, who died in Lon-
don on Bth inst., had the privilege once of reading
hisown obituary notice. It appeared, in Melbourne
papers, some years back, when Hingston, lying
sick of fever, was reported dead by a very
premature doctor. J. H. was once travelling in
the New Forest, near Winchester, and got into
conversation with a charcoal-burner. Latter in-
formed the Australian that his ancestors had lived
in the Forest over 1000 years. “ Carting char-
coal ?” queried J. H. “ And kings,” rep led the
rustic. His name was Purkiss, and his forefather
had carted the body of William Rufus to Win-
chester, after the Red King had been slain by
Tyrrell. Hingston lived for over 20 years m the
same room in the George Hotel, St. Kilda, and
was the reputed owner of 25,000 tram shares when,
in the height of the land-boom, they dazzled up to
£lO each. It is cabled that he left £25,000 to
Melbourne Benevolent Asylum.
Percy Ramage, the man whose doings so
upset Geelong (Vic.) gaol that at last the staff spent
most of its time trying not to annoy Ramage, for
fear of that fearsome person’s breakings-out, at
latest had literally kicked himself into the lunatic
asylum. Ramage kicked whatever came within
reach of his feet in an impartial and vigorous
fashion. When he was hauled up for one of his
many breaches of prison discipline, he usually
showed his appreciation of the proceedings by
kicking two or three people. When the kicking
became chronic and interminable the Geelong gaol
authorities had him examined by two doctors;
one said he was insane, the other said he wasn t.
Then he was removed to Melbourne gaol, where
three experts in lunacy “observed” him for
several weeks—and reported that there was
nothing insane about him During this time
Percy had been kicking things again, and was
hauled before Messrs. Panton and Purvis, J. sP.
The proceedings hadn’t gone far when Percy
kicked the dock into splinters. Then more
doctors were called in, and he was committed
to the Yarra Bend Asylum, which ricketty
structure he will probably kick into the river.
The death of James Hingstoh, the well-
known Melbourne notary, is cabled from London.
Mr. Hingston was a cheery, energetic old gentle-
man with a marvellous memory and a serviceable
literary twist; also he prided himself on the in-
vention of ginger-ale and claret as a drink. He it
was who wrote, in the Argus, the travel-notes of
“An Australian Abroad,” and he once contri-
buted to The Bulletin a certain memorable
political-personage article, which duly appeared,
but which, if printed in these Jingo days, would
land the publisher in Darlinghurst —if it didn t
get him burnt at the stake. The Bulletin was
young then, and it innocently typed that article
on the supposition that so respectable a gentleman
as Mr. Hingston, who constantly wrote for so
respectable a paper as the Argus, could do no
wrong. The authorities grunted, but nothing
happened ; for to have officially noticed the
matter would have only made things worse. The
publication of that article was perhaps the most
appalling thing—save one—that ever happened in
The Bulletin office.
P.M.G. Drake was at one titfte a Melb.
Argus reporter, and used to trot round the de-
partment he now controls in search of news
crumbs. When he got back to Melb. as boss
postman he found a vast alteration in reporters’
methods, and told the young men from the morn-
ing papers so. “ I don’t like this habit the papers
have developed of interlarding their news with
criticism,” he complained, “When I used to
come round the departments 20 years ago we
contented ourselves with the news and left ihe
rest to the leader-writers.” The result, of course,
was that an incapable P.M.G. might be admon-
ished once in three months or so in the course of
a stately leading article. TJnder the new order of
things he can get severe remarks made about him
in every issue and be_, so to speak, spanked at any
hour of the day or night.
1000 American editors reply that
they always thought so, and hope
to remain so. -“ Sorry Eaint
likker by wire."
“ At a press ban-
quet in New York
Prince Henry
transmitted a not-
able compliment
from the Em-
peror Wil-
liam by say-
ing that His
Majesty had
directed him
to remember
that the Am-
erican press-
men ranked almost
with his own generals j A
cable message was afterwards
sent on behalf of a thousand
. editors of American daily
papers to the Kaiser, recipro-
cating Germany’s splendid over-
tures of friendship as implied in
Prince Henry’s visit."
The S.M. Herald, notwithstanding its
age, dances merrily on the remains of a shattered
idol. On the morning after receipt of the news
of Methuen’s capture by De la Rey it observed
that “in a country where many peers exist, the
holder (Methuen) of a recent and unimportant
barony is of little consequence.”
4
The Bulletin was recently knocked flat
by a machine called the Burroughs Adding and
Registering Machine, of which the Commercial
Banking Co., of Sydney use seven. I't has a key-
board of figures as a typewriter has letters ; and
these are arranged in numerical order from one
half-penny up to one million pounds. To add
on the machine, you print off the amounts as you
strike off words on the typewriter, then you press
a key and the machine thereupon prints the exact
total. The machine is infallibly correct. Users
after a little practise can manipulate the machine
at the rate of two thousand cheques or dockets an
hour and have the total thrown m, while with the
pen they could not write the amounts let alone
add them. The United Typewriter and Supplies
Co., of Sydney, Melbourne and Perth, is the
concern responsible for introducing the benefits of
this machine to Australia. They state that a
large number of Banks, and many of the leading
Drapery establishments in Sydney and Melbourne,
such as David Jones and Co., Ball and Welch,
Craig, Williamson and Thomas have them in u.->e
for listing and adding up the daily dockets'.*


FOR THE LENTEN SEASON.
MACONOGHIES
DELICIOUS FISH.
Fresh Herrings. Kippered Herrings.
Preserved Bloaters. Herrings in Tomato Sauce.
Findon Haddocks.
SWIFT & CO MFA N Y,
7 Spring Street, Sydney,
Australian Agents.
The HANSARD Fountain Pen ‘ A "* hori ,'SS -MoSTiSS
Fine, Medium, or Broad Points. One Quality—The Best; One Price—The Lowest, 7/6 (Post Paid).
sd
Barrel of every Pen branded “ The Hansard.” ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTE. All Stationers ;or sent to any
address cn receipt of price. HANSARD PEN CO-j Box 98 f G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Hotel
Australia
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
For the Summer Season.
The innumerable visitors who have stayed at “ The
Australia” during Summer months have nothing
but praise for this famous Hotel. Ladies with
families obtain every comfort and attention at
a very reasonable cost. The rooms, furniture and
appointments of “The Australia” are unsurpass-
able. The Hotel has been built with every attention
to the needs of the climate. Hence, on the hottest
Summer day, the coolness of its rooms is as refresh-
ing as a cold bath.
•J. URE SMITH (Late of Menzies’)> Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. — In the case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting obieroxtions will have scientific value.
The proposal to introduce the eland into
Australia from Africa makes the writer wonder
what sort of a fresh disaster is being prepared for
this afflicted continent. This antelope is a fairly
satisfactory animal in its own particular clime ;
but so were the rabbit and fox, not to mention the
sparrow, prickly-pear, water-hyacinth, and the
other varieties of imported curse which have
flourished here like unto the spacious bay tree.
Better appoint a royal commission of six members
from each House to inspect the eland, and take
evidence about his habits. I can nominate six
M’s.L.C. whom I would be highly pleased to see
if I were an eland.
* • * *
A final (absolutely final) letter on the ’roo-
drinking question
M’Cooey and others are wrong. The kangaroo does
lap whilst drinking, but not as slated. He usually drinks
water, but instead of lapping same with his tongue, laps
it up with his tail. It’s a beautiful sight to see about a
hundred kangaroos ( Marsupius Lo.ngcaudius) flipping
their tails into the water and wiping them across their
lips. —Yours, &c,, Won Hi.
* * * *
“ Via ”: Re cod fish (B. 15/2/’O2). In ’95
one was caught in the Burdekin, near Ayr (N.Q.),
the head and shoulders thereof
weighing 871bs. This “ old
man ” cod smelt as rank as
a W.A. boom
prospectus.
WITHDRA WING
HIS PATRONAGE.
BUSH DOCTOR: “Now, Pat, when
can you settle with me for set-
ting your leg?”
PAT: “Sure, docther, dear, yez
aren’t going to
charge me for
THAT ?"
B.D.: “ Charge!
Of course I am ;
all doctors do.
How could we live
if we didn't?”
PAT: “Sure, if I'd known that,
I’d have called in ANOTHER
doctor.”
■ The once prosperous town of Hay (N.S. W.)
is quickly taking on a “ deserted village ” appear-
ance—drought, dust, and damnation have proved
too much for it. The stations around are deserted,
or else a manager and a solitary boundary-rider
keep up appearances. The storekeepers have
been keeping the few cookies going for the last
six years with a Micawber-like trust in “some-
thing turning up,” but now they dole out tea by
the half-pound, and sugar and flour in paper-bags.
A pub. can be got for a song or a curse, but 15s. a
week chasing rabbits is preferable. Poor Hay !
The statistical returns for the Bourke
(N.S.W.) district for 1901 show that in that land
of desolation 3700 horses, 7468 cattle and 490,766
sheep still survive. In ’9l there were 7921 horses,
23,368 cattle and 3,398,840 sheep. At this rate
the Western Lands Board will soon have no
problem to solve.
* * * *
Bourke is a sad enough spot nowadays.
In the centre of the town one of the largest
hotels of the west —The Royal—stands tenantless
and gloomy, while scattered round about 400
empty houses add to the general desolation.
During the day the dust of the streets is seldom
stirred by hoof or wheel, and the foot-ways are
almost equally deserted. After nightfall a few
women and children appear on the verandahs ;
the men have gone east in search of work. A
thin streak of water (thanks to the lock below the
town) is still to be seen in the bed of the Darling,
while back on the bank the piers, on their 40 feet
piles, mock at the river barges stranded below.
* * * *
The six years drought seems to have
pretty well annihilated the galahs out West.
One can now travel a whole day without seeing a
score where once they were in thousands. A flock
of galahs on the wing is a fine sight. With their
backs towards you they appear as a slate-
colored cloud; a moment later, as they sway in
the air, the sun strikes their pink-shaded breasts
and the cloud turns to crimson. Between Bourke
and Byrock galahs have been seen sitting along a
telegraph wire in such numbers as to make it sag
4 or sft.
* * • *
“Truthful James”: Pleased to read
“Boko’s” remarks (B. 15/2/’O2) re “ catfishes’
nests,” as it gives me a chance to unburden myself
on same subject. Twelve years ago, when fishing
in the Turon, near its junction with the Mac-
quarie, saw one of these same heaps of
pebbles with a catfish swimming round and round
it. Saw the same thing at Maryvale, on the
Macquarie. Considered them spawning-grounds,
but this was mere conjecture. Have mentioned
this fact at the camp-fire on more than one occa-
sion, but the painful silence which usually ensued
was very disconcerting to a man of my truthful
disposition.
’f * * * *
A well-known driver out West has been
recently troubled over the expense of his drinks.
On one of his numerous trips he reckoned he had
caught hydatids. He was positive of it, because
one drink did him no good : they swallowed it as
fast as he drank it. His only chance of satisfying
his craving was to make them all drunk (which
took six drinks), and so have the seventh for him-
self. He declares he can feel a new generation of
hydatids every five minutes, so what it will cost
to get a drink in course of time he really doesn’t
know.
“ D.R.0.” : Be tall beer - drinking
(“Riverina,” 8/3/’O2). I once saw a beery Bill,
who boasted that he could drink “mediums” as fast
as the barman could pull them —that is, if some-
body else would pay for them and also shout him
his billy full as well, so that he might have a
little well-earned refreshment after the struggle.
A man in the crowd took up the offer, and the
fun started. The barman was fairly done at the
15th, for the pace was tremendous, but, after he
drank that one, the sewer’s legs gave way. As the
other man was paying the score there came a tired
voice from the floor, saying: “Don’t forget the
billy o’ beer, and pleash ’old it ter me mouth.”
* * * »
“WillJ.” : That “good thing in bush-
fire extinguishers ” (B. 15/2/’O2) wouldn’t be much
use on any ordinary place, where the dray-horse,
THE TRAILING SKIRT
before being caught, harnessed, and yoked, has to
be found: • Also, squirting 200 gallons of good
railway water (which the Government frequently
sends (say) 199 miles, would be an unholy risk ;
and what about manoeuvring round trees, lagoons,
and scraps of brush-fences ? Also, what about
finding three cool-headed men on the spot to
manage the thing when they might advantage-
ously be separated along the line of fire ? Give
me a man, and a bag.
* * * •
“ Riverina ” : Be that “big boy” of
Newcastle (8., 8/3/’O2), who is 13 years of age,
stands over 6ft., and weighs over lOst. At shear-
ing time a youth visited these parts from Vie.,
who stood about 6ft. 6in. and weighed over 13st.,
and was (only 16 years of age. Myself, before I
turned 18, stood 6ft. and weighed lOst. 91b. In
these parts of long beers and long natives there
are many more like me.
'•• • •
“Kiwi” moralises :
The degradation of the Maori race is proceeding
at Rotorua, thanks to the much-belauded tourist traffic,
which (for the Maori) means war-dances, “tipping,” and
indiscriminate drinking. A capitalist has lately intro-
duced ’rickshaws, and already one may see degenerate
sons of the race that produced Rewi and such warriors,
jogging along in the shafts of these curious vehicles. The
Maori hasn’t yet got dovvn to the level of the Cingalese
man-horse, but he is getting there. In Ceylon’s spicy
isle the languid white man, when he wants his ’rick-
shaw-man to go faster, simply leans forward and whacks
his glistening brown back with an umbrella, and the lank
brown legs of our brother, the animal, take a longer stride.
There is no reciprocity about the arrangement, as there is
amongthe German farmers’daughters in the impoverished
corners of S. A. There, when one daughter and the old
dry,cow are drawing the plough, and the other daughter
is driving, the whip is said to descend impartially on the
sister and the cow when necessary, and the lady in the
shafts, if she is properly trained, regards it as one of the
necessities of her position. But, as the girls usually take
turns in the shafts, there is at least a certain element of
fairness about the matter which is absent in the ’rickshaw-
man’s case.
* * * »
A new secret Maori cure for rheumatism
and other ailments is being applied at a native
hospital at Tahoraite (Hawkes Bay). Rahiri,
who conducts the show, is one of three brothers
who hold the secret. Their treatment consists of
massage, hot baths, and, sometimes, medicine.
The liquid bath is said to be composed of the
essence of three hundred herbs, leaves and trees
indigenous to M.L. Over a thousand oases have
already been treated in different parts of the
North Island, and cure or relief is said to have
been afforded in most instances. A ten years’
cripple—it is alleged—was cured in a fortnight,
and another in a week.
* * * *
Victorian legislators have a most casual
way of dropping any kind of people on to any
kind of land, and a shocking case in point is the
Monbulk village settlement, out beyond Fern
Tree Gully. Senile “Jock ” MTnty re started it
years ago, when Lands Minister, selling the land
cheap so that raspberries could be grown upon it.
But the demand for raspberries is restricted, and
the settlers up Monbulk way don’t know what to
do with their raspberries even after they have duly
pulped them or made them into jam. In order to
save them from the necessity of shutting up their
co-operative jam factory and seeking the Bank-
ruptcy Court in a body, Minister of Works
McCulloch has started trading off their jam for
them, and proudly announced that he had got rid
of 26. cases the first day. Which is better than
sending the settlers away Boer-hunting, anyway,
• • • •
“You fools talks of'ard times,” said the
parchment-faced veteran in the corner. “ But
when I was out on the Paroo, in the time of the
big drought nigh 20 years ago, I went without
food or water for five weeks ! I was ridin’ me
old ’oss all the time, but one evenin’ he staggered
under me an’ dropped dead. An’ you blarsted
fools talks about yer ’ard times ! But I wasn’t
goin’ to give in, so I started to walk, an’ I walked
for a ’ole blessed fortnight without anything to
eat or drink. You blarsted fools talks about ’ard
times! One evenin’ I felt as if I’d soon follow
the old ’oss ; an’ just at sundown I flopped uncon-
scious. When I came-to I see a light ’bout
quarter of a mile away, an’ I says to myself, ‘lf
I can only reach that light I’m saved ! ’ But
when I went to stand up I found I was too weak.
An’ you blarsted fools talks about ’ard times !
So I crawled on me ’ands an’ knees,
an’ after a long time I got to the ’ouse.
I knocked at the door an’ a woman came out, an’
Isays ‘For’eaven’s-sake, Missis, give me somethin’
to eat an’ drink.’ An’ the woman, she says—‘ I’m
sorry, Mister —but we ’aven’t had a drop to drink
since we emptied the water-bag yesterday, and
there’s only half a handful of flour left in the
’ouse.’ And you blarsted fools talks about ’ard
times ! I says ‘ That’ll do, Missus.’ So she gets
the flour and emptied it into both me ’ands.
‘Now,’ I says, ‘Missus, get the water-bag and
squeeze it well.’ An’she did. She squeezed an’
squeezed—an’ I ’eld me breath ’ard an’ watched
her; an’ she squeezed, an’ squeezed, but she
couldn’t squeeze any water out. An’ you blarsted
fools talks about ’ard times ! Then I says ‘ Try
again, Missis—try again ! ’ —an’ I ’eld me breath
again;—an’ she tried an’ she tried —an’ at last I
lets go me breath—an’ blows all the flour clean
away ! An’ you blarsted fools talks about ’ard
times 1 ”
* * • •
“ Stanley Pollard,” on droving
I had been advised, if I wanted a leal holiday, with
lots of Australian experience, to go droving for three
months. I was thinking it over as I came to a gate open-
ing into a three-chain lane, towards which a fair-sized
mob of sheep was advancing. The man who was steady-
ing the leaders opened the gate, propping it' ajar with a
stick. Then he started to encourage the sheep to enter.
After about 20 minutes of yelling and harking, .and dust
and “ ringing,” the drover on the wings managed to coax
a sheep through by slinging a hunk of wood behind it
just as it paused to look through the opening. The
animal went in with a bound that would have shamed a
kangaroo, and was followed by several more,' all making
precisely the same bound. “ They’re going ! V yelled the
drover, as he disappeared into the cloud. Then the pressure
of the sheep caused the stick holding the gate to' slip, and it
closed and stuck fast. The sheep “rung” round and
round past the closed gate. The unconscious drover
came round to steady the leaders and saw the mischief.
He forgot to swear, and, dismounting, fixed the gate up
again. While he was remounting the sheep that had
passed into the paddock rejoined the mob.‘ f, Then the
business began again, and when the sheep began to pass
through once more “ Kruger” (a half-broken pheep dog)
came down on his own, put them all back' again, and
took up a position right in the gateway, 'determined
that no sheep should escape if he was round to
prevent it. When the drover found him there,
Kruger, with a whiplash halo round him, disappeared
into the bush. The man went round the corner into the
dust cloud again, and the sheep at once began to run.
On his next appearance the leaders were half a mile away
and going like blazes. His language, as with a yell to his
dogs he galloped like mad to wheel them, was beautiful.
The whole lot made a splendid picture—the dust, ihe
leaping sheep, the galloping drover with a billy banging
on his horse’s ribs and a file of excited dogs tearing after
him, the long string of sheep disappearing in the distance
I came to the conclusion that I would try to scrape along
without “ actual experience ” of droving. 1
• » * •
“Will J.” : Be taming of barbed lizard
(8., 25/l/’O2). Was about to enter a friend’s hut
on the Murray, one time, when a colossal iguana
bounded out and disappeared in the timber. Fell
and knocked my head against a root,’ trying to
dodge him. When picked up, I was told that
the thing was a pet, and had become such of his
own accord. Used to trot in for tucker like a man,
and scramble about at will, often sleeping with
the landlord. An aperture was made for his
coming-in and going-out. His nibs couldn’t
tolerate a stranger, and when one dropped in he
always departed in a bad temper.
THE SILVER LINING .
ANCIENT SYDNEY DOMAIN SQUATTER (the oldest
inhabitant): “All very well for you to talk —
you’re young, and naturally take a cheerful
view of life. Wait until you are as old as I
am, and you will find that there is no hap-
piness, or nothing to be thankful for, when
you are in the sere and yellow leaf”
YOUNG D.S. : “ Oh, I dunno, maybe so; anyhow
there's one thing I’m looking forward to when
I grow old.”
A.S.D.S.: "And what is that, my son.”
Y.D.S.: “ The money I’ll be able to save in
hair-cuts. ”
“Pelican”: Be cungeboi-eating. Follow-
ing is the only true and original recipe, derived
from an aboriginal “ chef ” : Thoroughly roast the
root, and pound it on a flat stone till you think
you have pounded everything out of it save fibre.
Then start pounding again, and occasionally spit
on the vegetable till you get a mass that looks like
a cross between a jujube and a boot-sole. The
dainty is then edible.
QUITS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
He halted at a country pub. to rest,
Out West,
Where the rooms were low and dingy,
And the landlord sour and stingy,
Where you “ put up,” as they call it; yes, it’s true,
You do.
With an inch of candle, burning with a smell
Like h—ll,
In his bedroom, foul and rusted,
Whence the ’possums fled disgusted ;
He spent the night endeavoring to seize
Gaunt fleas.
A cuckoo clock upon the wall was hung,
Gone bung.
It was euckooless and chimeless,
And significantly timeless ;
Whilst beneath it was inscribed upon a brick :
“ No tick.”
In the morning, when the landlord camo around,
He found
That the traveller had cleared,
And the clock had disappeared ;
Then he read the strange inscription with a shock :
“ No clock ! ”
v.
ALFRED LINDED.


“ APENTA,”
The Beat Purgative Water
For continuous use by the Gouty, the Constipated,
and the OBESE,
and
as an occasional Laxative.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance*
is solicited.
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by-
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. fid.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney,
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
CEE A ns
the BLOOD
through the
KIDNEYS
SddVWID
V V
WATSON’S WHISKY.
The various Protestant sects in a very
small southern seaside village some time ago
decided to make an experiment in co-operation,
and to that laudable end built a little meeting-
house wherein each could worship in turn.
Anglicans, Wesleyans, and Hardfaced Bluelights
took their turns with regularity and dwelt in
almost perfect peace and unity for months, Bub
just as the world was expected to come down
handsomely with congratulations and newspaper
paragraphs on the solution of all difficulties m the
way of Union of the Churches, a strange new
shepherd came along in a hurry from a distant
State to run an Anglican mission. He happened
to strike the Wesleyan Sunday, and as he had
only one Sunday there he asked the Wesleyans to
give way; They refused; the Anglicans “said
things,” and a disastrous jostle happened. The
Wesleyans and Bluelights called a meeting m the
building to discuss the attempted invasion of their
rights, and, as some of the leading Anglicans were
present by their own invitation, and the Bluelights
were divided, and a solitary Dry Baptist who had
no business there was aggressive, things began to
simmer and finally to sizz. The chairman, a
peaceably disposed outsider, did his level best to
maintain order, but he might as well have tried
to control the buzzing of a swarm of bees
out for slaughter. Brethren and Sistern argued
and lectured and prayed. The noise of the pro-
ceedings caused a herd of dairy cows in an adjacent
paddock to stampede and wreck an acre and a half
of raspberry-garden that lay in their track, and a
mare and foal belonging to Brother Andewartha
fled in fear, and came to trouble on a Papist’s wire
fenced half-a-mile away. Everybody’s dog
begaiv M bark furiously at everybody else’s
dog, and it appeared that Babel had broken
all over the place. The climax approached
when a vigorous matron slapped an elderly
virgin sister for “daring to make remarks,” and
before any of the elders could interfere the air was
filled with the sound of slaps and tearing drapery,
punctuated by squeals. The chairman seized the
lam ) and hurriedly declared the meeting closed.
Ti e Dry Baptist’s dog came in and bit a Wesleyan,
and the village policeman showed his burly form
inside the doorway. Then the worshippers
realised the awful fact that a number of Papists
and other sojourners in outer darkness were
grinning through the windows in keen enjoyment
of the circus within. With great presence of
mind a sister commanded the chairman to “ douse
the glim,” and the disputants filed sadly out into
the n’ght and hurried off home. The little church
has now been unoccupied for four consecutive
Sabbath's, neither sect being willing to claim
precedence, for the Papist already mentioned
promises to have the law on the first trustee who
enters into possession for recovery of damages
done to his wire fence. Meanwhile, each sect
worships beneath its own gum tree, and the
Papists and unbelievers are enjoying the first
hearty chuckle that has disturbed the district
since an fid time Yankee whaler planted a Dutch
cheese in the innards of a whale and fooled the
local publican ’twas ambergris. '
* * • *
“ G.T.” : In B. 27/7/’Ol “G.F.” tells
a fairy-tale about his horse getting his hind
leg fast in a hobble ring tied round his neck.
MISS BOXY BARTON, who shares “ lead” with Miss
Hope Mayne in the Willouyhby-Gcach Co. Miss Barton is a
Sydney girl, and has had stage experience under the Hawtrey and
Holloway managements.
Photo, by the Falk Studios, Sydney.
Takes a horse all his time to scratch his cheek
with his hind toe. Besides, any bushman can put
hobbles round the neck without any “strong
leather band.” Also, as regards shoeing bullocks.
Bullocks are not shod—they are “cued.” Where
you can’t get the proper cue, old horse-shoes are
used, cut in two. Old stagers who have been
through the mill a few times can be cued like
horses ; but to cue a team you have to build a pen
(sort of a crush) and put the comether on ’em.
• * • *
Extract from a letter by a Victorian female
State school teacher who live outback and sends in
her complaint from the wilderness :
I found the school to consist of a large bam built of
palings, neither ceiled, lined nor papered, nor even sub-
divided, and with only half a chimney. At one end of
the building a piece of hessian, to the height of 6ft., had
been tacked up as a screen round the teacher’s bed. A
family consisting of a man, his wife, and seven children—
the eldest a boy of 16—slept in the adjoining corner.
The only other available place is where the former teacher
resided. This is a two-roomed cottage with a lean-to at
the back divided into two portions—one of which is thej)
teacher’s bedroom. In this cottage live a man, his wife,
and seven children, ranging from 15 downwards.
“ Hagram ” : Be cream-tests at agricul-
tural shows. ’Tis said that a cute cockie at one
N.S.W. show, had a bag of cream under his arm ;
and,' as he milked—in presence of the committee
—he squeezed so that the liquor ran down, under
his lengthy shirt-cuffs, into the bucket. There
was much splashing of milk, and the leakage was
unnoticed. His cow came out on top, easily.
Another genius charged his cow with cream the
night before, by means of a syringe inserted in
the teats. And yet these are the people the *‘ con-
fidence-men ” take down !
♦ ♦ * •
jlpvopos ft recent paragraph, 44 Blade
Snanish ’’ tells The Bulletin that the natives—
black, tan and drab—at New Norcia (W, A.) R.C.
mission speak in very good imitation of the old
brothers, a sort of Spanish-cmn-English. 1 urther,
fully 70 of the 100 or so natives there are half-
castes of various crosses. One at least is a Jap-
cwa-aboriginal, and another is negro cum- ab. Two :
boys—almost white—are known and called by the
names of their reputed white fathers, and there
are a couple with a European
cast of countenance and eyes
that are not quite Italian.
Is the mission a profitable
concern ? The adult natives
are paid—nominally—£1 per
week for working about the
farm, etc., but they have to
take it out in tucker at ex-
orbitant prices, and are in
debt the whole year, except
just after shearing, when
the best hands might have
£8 or £9 coming to them for
their year’s work. Some of
the men are splendid
workers, too. One of them
is equal to the best white
man in the district, but
then he’s nearly white him-
self and was brought up in
Gringin district. About the
religious principles of the
natives the less said the
better. Perhaps 5 per cent,
have any idea of what it’s
all about; the rest do as
they’re told. There is a
native organist who plays
by ear only, and his im-
provisations are awful. The
poor old bishop used to say
he was glad he couldn’t hear
the “music.” The young-
sters coming on now are a
tribe of regular bad - uns.
They’d steal your very boot-
laces if you didn’t look
sharp, and they frequently
break open the storeroom
and steal the old brothers’
wine. The mission gene-
rally is about a century be-
hind the times —old build-
ings, old methods, and
still older brethren. Old-
fashioned in everything but the art of making
money—and they’re dead keen on that.
THE DROUGHT.— A BACKBLOCK'S GRIME.
“ Hi, father ! Billee's been wankin'.”
SAWMILLIN'.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I was fairly on my uppers when I struck a sawmill plant,
A-cuttin’ blessed firewood on the range,
And of course I took the job on, and I’m goin’ like an ant
A-dropped among surroundin’s rather strange.
The boss is an Italian, and the bencher is a Finn,
The blocker-ofi’s a mixture partly French ;
The other two are Dutchmen —that’s the company I m in
Lumpin’ billets to the bloomin’ sawmill bench.
O ! the yellow-box is heavy, and the ironbark is worse,
And they cart in curly billets any length ;
Doesn’t matter to the miller; so, to hold the job, oi
course
Keeps me always at the limit of my strength.
And the bencher wants to kill me when I jamb his fingers
sore,
But I scoot until his wrath has time to quench ;
I lingered once explainin’, but I’m off that evermore,
Lumpin’ billets to the blessed sawmill bench.
I never get a " smoko,” I must do without a spell,
And I’m luggin’ till my arms are red and raw ;
If I stop to pull a splinter, hear the bencher curse and
yell
’Bove the buzzin’ of the cracked and “ buckled ” saw 1
And we never know the minute that the crazy saw will
go—
The check-nut will not tighten with the wrench ;
And the engine’s mostly primin’, and the valve ia
weighted so
That it’s lively lumpin’ billets to the bench
But the miller’s gettin’ orders, and the work is goin’ on,
And the boiler doesn’t trouble him a bit;
But I’m hopin’ the explosion doesn’t happen till I’m gone,
Though I’m sure that only luck’s deferrin’ it
And when the steam’s escapin’ in a more than ugly way
Behind the nearest wood-stack I entrench,
For the blessed graft is gettin’ more excitin’ every day,
Lumping billets to the dashed old sawmill bench.
via
BEN SON.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
suburban villa a “ stately edifice.”.... Rita : Ode on the
frightful try unsuitable D.H.R. : One verse :
Now slowly waves the splendor of the star,
And droops the silver crescent in the West ;
Now rosy hands the gates of Dawn unbar,
And perfumed breezes wave the gum-tree’s crest.
All the pretty, potted phrases of poetry dished up again
Send us some fresh meat of your own killing, or., at
least, your own cooking.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
HwJ.S. : Stale dirt F.K. : Very sad jokes... .Hamer
(or Haines, or Hainer —why not write clearly ?): Both
declined T.T.M. : Drawing won’t do, but idea service-
able D.S. (Melb.): Subject will do. But. you write as
if you had sent a drawing—and none has come to hand.
Dudley D. : Sorry it won’t d0....W.G.G. : A rather
nice and very promising drawing, but legend climaxless.
Try again, and pay more attention to outlining your
faces... .Jerry B. (M.L.) : Very amusing, but as it would
only be interpreted in one way, we can’t print it...;
A. J.W. : Won’t d 0... .M'Gregor : Old as the hi 115....
O.G. (West Coast): Declined.. ..Oswald P. : The objec-
tion to such drawings is that they might come from any-
where on earth. They would never get the paper credit
for originality. Tackle some obviously-Australian subject.
D.—S. (Melb.): Please send address... .Nemo (and
Zef) : All utterly hopeless... .David G. (Melb.): May
possibly adapt snake idea ; others unavai able. Stick to
subjects which look original....L.L. : Picture would
require re-drawing and joke not new... .T. 8., E.P., and
0.M.F., unsuitable O.T.H.Q. : Wouldn’t reproduce
we 11.... J.E. : Only a pun... .George T.S.R. : A clever
drawing, but quite unsuitable for Bulletin. Why not try
something usable ?....“ Fellows rise and Fellows fall ” too
obviously a made-up picture Rusher: Idiotic... .J.
Percy (W.A.): A good attempt. You should study
drawing Dudley D.: One will serve as suggestion
J. Walters: Nothing in it... .Tydvil: No thanks
G.M.F. : Don’t see the point W. Whea : One for
direct reproduction: one as a suggestion: one unavail-
able Gerald R. (W.A.): Neither usable.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Non-Partisan: But if you can’t say what should
have been done then why complain about what was done ?
Destructive criticism is very cheap Cosmo: The four
pages of unnecessary verbiage at the beginning seriously
discounted the chances of your yarn. We want the
metal —not the crude ore with a lot of “ country
thrown in. “Matchbox”: for print....Sandgroper :
Small lady teetotal orator at great distance... .J.O. :
“On the River” is a very dry parable R.J. : Afraid
it’s not worth space even without the blanky.... Waihoa .
There does not seem to be enough joy in your Heaven.
. ...W.H.R. : Small and conventional.... L.R. : “Horse
Episode” is good material badly cooked W.J. :
“Maisie” is a purposeless tragedy. Even a tragedy
should have some purpose besides blood and brains and
sundries....A.H. (Ad.): Both are stale news here....
Ness: If you could decide whether you are writing
rhyme or blank verse it would save a lot of trouble....
H Weston : Supposing the Boers had a long-meditated
plan for the conquest of the British S’African possessions
—of which there is no definite evidence : Cape Colony
was taken from them by the British. Natal and the
Diamond Fields were taken from them later, by the
British, in time of peace. They were prohibited from
having a seaport, so that their imports had to come in
through foreign territory (mostly through British terri-
tory), and be taxed at the British custom-houses. When
they tried to purchase a seaport from the Portuguese
they were informed by Britain that it couldn t
allowed—Britain had decided that they mustn’t be per-
mitted to make commercial progress. The British seized
the native country to the north of them and shut them
in Finally they were almost ordered to hand over con-
trol of the TransVaal to the Outlanders of Johannesburg
—and then they declared war. If there was anything
Australian about you you would be ashamed that your
country should take a hand in such a dirty business ..
Alone : “ Plain English ” under new title. ' Let us Give
Mother a Wash ”is too weird Matabele : Mostly good
pars.... Young ’Un : Don’t care for either of them....
Jessamy Bride : Accepted Quits : Accepted
Telsic : Try “Carried by Storm” on a milder paper:
it is prettily done, but is such a small storm and such a
small carry U.S. : A tale about chocolate creams on
scented paper ! Dear, dear ! Verse more hopeful, con-
sidering FH. : Blit there is steep taxation on cheap
perfumes'.'/. .Hamer : “ Florrie ” is just a bit of causeless
heartlessness... .Enrico : Not fresh enough . .G.H.G. :
Will print “ City Girl”... .Will. Mac.: Only the very best
kind of Sunset Poem has a show nowadays. V.J. :
Don’t re-write. When a man writes a story badly once
he usually writes it worse twice... . Pagan : ‘ Science
doesn’t get there Meoro :Be calm. After all, its
thousands to one you don’t catch the plague, and if you
do it’s a clear two to one you don t die of it.....
P.D.R. : Furniss was a clever caricaturist who came out}
here to lecture (which wasn’t his real line) when he was
far past his best. Mark Twain was a weary old man who
came out here and recited stories from his old books and
the only new joke he got off here was a theory that the
Blue Mountains were heaps of dead rabbits. As ta the
question, “ What would Australia do without England to
buy its goods ? ” the real question is, “ What would Eng-
land do without Australia to buy its goods. Taking
goods (apart from gold) this country most years buys more
from England than England buys from it, and It is
England which should be grateful... .E.G.H. . W.orl -
weary” is a thing of very erratic metre. ... W.GAI. .
Good idea but needs better treatment.. ...Owl-
Light: Will probably print Echo : Australia is
just about good enough Maggie b. : A curious mix-
ture of Europe and Australia. The homestead is
local, and the “ oaken rooms ” and the beauty and
Valour” are bits of long-established Europe.. .Milky W .
“L.” is g00d.... Melita : Think we feel equal to pub-
lishing “kisses.’..’.. ..Monowai: Will print Lydia.
“ Berceuse” went under in the scrimmage Wild Bee :
“Scents’’lead to nothing in particular. T other doubt-
ful.... L.O. : Nothing very definite about Night.
B. Clavern : Andrew Carnegie, Laird of Slcibo Castle,
Scotland.. ..W. L. Dollman : Nixon’s Advanced Book-
keeping, posted 45., Van de Linde s Book-keeping and
•other papers, Bs. 9d., Thornton’s Manual of Book-keep-
ing, 7s. 6d. : all obtainable at Geo. Robertson and Go.,
Sydney.... J. Mulcahey :It costs £5 to yet naturalised in
England; nominally only £1 inN.S. W.,but egal fees r.ng
it up to about £5. Naturalisation in a British aepenclc-nc
•does not naturalise one in England : if you went there
.you would have to naturalise again.... J.L. : But name ot
Bechuana Commissioner was I ranc*s Janus Newton, not
•J. I. Newton, as you state ; may npt be the same....
C I K : It's not that your treatment is bad, but that the
same thoughts have been so strongly expressed before....
Mulga Jack : Rejected with sorrow ...E.i.D. : Sketch
too thin . H.W.S. : You don’t put enough meat m your
stock pot : Result has some flavor but no body.. ..R. :
Dog-perjury not up to the lofty standard set by pre-
vious liars... .J. O’B. : No hope for anyone who calls a
Trapper’s Terrible Trials.
The terrible trials from which a young rabbit-
trapper has just emerged, have (says an exchange)
made him a notable man wherever his experiences
have been published. His name is W. F. Byrnes,
and in his narrative he says:—“l have now
resumed rabbiting and shooting—a life much to
my liking—which I had to abandon three years
ago because consumption and a tuberculous growth
in my hip made exertion impossible. The wet and
exposure whilst camping out may have brought
on the consumption, but at all events I was so
seriously affected that I had to take to bed, and
was subsequently removed to the Melbourne
Hospital. Here I had the best treatment, but as
the months went on I further declined, and at last
a leading surgeon said I was a hopeless consump-
tive. I was prostrated by persistent coughing,
spitting of phlegm, shortness of breath, and severe
pains in chest and shoulders ; I perspired copious-
ly, feverish attacks were frequent, and I lost
strength and flesh alarmingly. After a consultation
a critical operation was performed on my hip, but
without the results wished for. I left the hospital
in an absolutely helpless condition, and sub-
sequently another physician said : ‘ There is not
even the shadow of a hope of recovery.’ I was
then quite prostrated, almost unable to move,
and my bones were nearly coming through my
skin. The clergyman was called in to administer
the last rites of the church, but still I lingered on.
Then in December ’97, my family commenced
giving me Dr. Williams’ pink pills for pale people.
After taking .them for a few days I slightly
improved, and week by week grew stronger. At
last I left my bed and then by still continuing to
take these pills I was in a few months, cured.
“The fact that I travel many miles day after
day trapping and camping without ill effect
shows that my cure is permanent and complete,”
continued Mr. Byrnes. “ Indeed my recovery is
regarded by the neighbours and the physicians
who saw me at my worst, as little short of
marvellous.” Dr. Williams’ pink pills, however,
have cured manyeases of consumption. This they
do by replenishing the lost blood and increasing
the resistant power of the lungs, thus giving them
strength, to throw off the disease. Every' dose
helps to make rich red blood, and to tone up the
nerves. They cure liver and kidney troubles,
dyspepsia, rheumatism, skin diseases, rickets,
St. Vitus’ dance, neuralgia, hysteria, heart
palpitation, premature decay, ladies’ ailments,
etc., and are sold by chemists and storekeepers
and the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s
Place, Sydney, six boxes fifteen and three, one
box two and nine, post free. They are equally
valuable to young and old of either sex. Mr.
Byrnes resides at Toolern, near Melton, Vic.


Ur
~ APROPOS OF THE TIMES.
- , , Snake : “ Who are you ? ”
Flippant Flea : “ The Terror of the
Snake : “ Phew ! your conceit isn’t
measured by your size.”
Flippant Flea : “Ask Sydney.” '
King : “ Do you know
that person 1 ”
Wales : “ Not in the
least ; but I’ve seen
the sort before—that’s
an Australian member
of ”
i uam puq ‘pjoq
jo sa/a oqj u; oouajsixe joj uos-eaj /
sji jo snqiurao oqj paqqoa oavq |
i sjaiqtiß ui[t!uj.ioj asoqr j stqy '
Taking a hint from the past The
Bulletin submits a badge for the de-
parting Australian eleven.
7
Mr. William Gowers has passed on to
tne Times an extract from a letter he
feas received from Rudyard Kipling
, ... , dated Capetown, January 14th, in*
which the flagellator of “muddied oafs” and A
flannelled fools ’ remarks: Jo,
“Things are going forward well in this
country as regards the war. Our only fear
now is the old one—that England at the
eleventh hour, will declare an amnesty for
the colonial rebels. . . . One gets so ,
weary and so ashamed of one's mother- A
land when one leaves it. Ido wish you JW/
co ?. . . ma ke some moderately sane
politician (I do not say statesman,
because they seem as dead as the
dodo) understand that this ques-
-1 tlor ‘ of amnesty to rebels, which
-they raise so light-heartedly
is not, only the life or death A
. th ® c °lony, but will mean, jf per .
sistecl in, the severest blow to the a
colonies’ trust in England (I speak //
here of Australia, Canada, etc.) /
that, has ever been ad- .
ministered.”
THE MAN WHO IS “ RUNNING THE SHQW._^
A.s matters go from bad to worse .///
He kipples in prose as well as verse.
Far more than Kruger and all his tribe
Old England dreadsjier scalding scribe 1
TOBY OB NOT - TQBY Xhtf
“Mr. OTSußjvan had ta plead financial insufficiency to the deputation
which waited upon him yesterday. ‘ Neither De Wet nor De ]a Bey hag
yet been captured/ said Mr. O’Sullivan ; by which he means that while
the war lasts he can’t borrow/’
If 0 Sullivan’s, pockets (politically speaking) were US full
as his head, things would hum—Rathgp J
... Lqndok, March 4.
Mr. Chamberlain announced in the House of Commons last niuhtk
the representatives of the self-governing coloaiea to the Corona.l
the^Erapire, 31661 * U uc * ou anc * discuss the commercial relations of!
TaB Wil? -Job (to Barton, Seddon and ca. J: “ Ah ! so glad you
pame-i J want to consult you as to the—ah-tHe^er-t-'
sauce you d prefer to be swallowed with.” '
POLITICS, CRICKET, PLAGUE, &c.


jA 'terge deputation from the United Coun-i
'ejl for Women’s Suffrage waited upon Mr.)
'l’Kteock.'the State Premier, to-day. ,
Locke supported what Mr. WHHsme)
Lieutenant-Colonel Reay h&d eaid. 9be|
added that, as_women, they had few weapons,,
to fight with.
Oie to w oot O w»
lGoin «,ooVA .***V &&**■
Vb& wor e w 01 ®
fr? SWec f)j
-What steps have'yon taken toobtain a
clear expression ol opinion, and to assure
yourself that the sense of the community i«
with you?” "Without taking any particu-
lar measures,” replied Mi. Drake. " the
Postmaster-General has satisfied himself.tha*
he has the sense of the
him.”
JoW he
lf
S^e's
QpoA'urjp
even 'fei
) h«r'e"M^
o,>j' yh*H‘'s^
y -you
? ,
fjer-'Mci IkvKea * &»H
nw VoV
Whet. Mr. Tate was appointed as P
of the Training CoUa*3 it with a
r"irr»r^
methods and ideas.
IfiE fowMALIH (ffonfinptey.
yes '! Jis ij/*
you. »f y°“ dor ' .
w A ik Vw*,:- r
J\«i of To pate.
HEfHop Yankee
of OTHER'S 6 -
W,i> U£LP /
Australians To /
” T ”*^
7w\U be Welcome/
.«--«rr- . ,'i—r
•• When: th6y tall? about standing op «>*,
| • State rights' and 'sovereignties' they
the conservation of their own persona! W j
eequeucft&nd the maintenance of the cere-,
■menials which enable them to strut and,
|fret their hour upon the. stage: but e,
!idea of meeting merely to perpetuate the]
I mean traditions of the parish vestry and to
! strut as so many Bumbles in the Uvenes of)
. their little offioes and their * sovereign ■
Eights will entail on., them only the con. |
tempt of every true Tederalist apd every
earnest reformer Aoz.
trie ooe 105Vfljllc 1
pe-r ‘ noTouiKf
°\ 5 ‘jo* e How ler.
Referring to the journalistic attention paid to
<the case, Mr, Josiah Symon said that never had*
he known the sensational and theatrical element
introduced into South Australian journalism to
such an extent that the proceedings at the inquest
should have been stopped while the scene, with
the foreman holding the written verdict In bfe
hand, and with the accused girl waiting in
pense for the verdict, might be photographed
'for the newspapers. It was '£ scandal on the*
m administration of'justice- *
o X
IMocwW 1
k 4 Vf Ju
MELBOURNIANA.


A. SAUNDERS
WATCHES, JEWELLERY, AND SILVERPLATE AT FREETRADE PRICES,
SAVE 25 TO 50 PER CENT. SHOWROOMS: 815 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY/
A
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, Pure Silver, in Silk-lined Case, 30s
FREETRADE PRICES. NO ADVANCE. '
B Ss
c(i/a
LONDON
& SYDNEY
A. SAUNDERS’ FREETRADE PRICES.
NUT CRACKERS and PICKS in Silk-lined Case,
Chased and Silver-plated, 15s 6d and 20s.
VERY USEFUL.
A. SAUNDERS.
SOAP BOX, Silver-plated, Nicely Chased and
Embossed, 12s tld.
EREETRADE PRICES.
A. SAXJNDEES’ FREETRADE PRICES
LADIES’ FRIEND, Pure Silver-mounted,
in Silk-lined Case, 18s 6d. Smaller, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CLOTH BRUSH, Pure Solid Silver-
mounted, 15a 6d, 17S 6d.
COMBS, Pure Solid Silver-mounted, Real
Tortoiseshell, 20s ; Imitation Shell, 10s 6d
Similar, 5s 6d and 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Manicure Set, Pure Solid Silver-mounted, 20s.
Smaller, 12s 6d.
NO ADVANCE IN PRICE.
Pure Solid Silver Chased PHOTO
FBAMES in every Style and Shape.
10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, and 255.
A very acceptable present.
EREETRADE PRICES.
A. SAUNDERS.
MIRROR, Solid Silver-mounted,
Heart-shaped, Velvet-lined, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 15s 6d, 20s, 80s, £2.
EREETRADE PRICES.
Pure Silver Hair BRUSH,
Best Bristle, 15s 6d.
You save money buying
from A. SAUNDERS.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Silyer-mcranted WALLET CARD
CASE, 20s. Similar style, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Hair Brash, Pure Silver, Best
Bristles, 12s 6d. Splendid Value.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHILD’S CUPS,Pure Solid Silver,
in Silk Case, 30s, 85s, £2, £2 10s;
Silver Electro-plated, 12s 6d, 15s,
20s. 'WitlioutCase,7s6d,Bs6d,los.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ PURSES, Pure Silver-mounted, Lizard
Skin, 20s, 255. Other styles, 10s, 12s Bd, 15s.
Our Stock of First Purses is large and Assorted.
A. SAUNDERS.
FREETRADE PRICES. SAVE 25 to 50 PER CENT.
Solid Silver 4 o’clock TEA SPOONS, in Case, 15s, 20s: with
TONGS, 20s, 255, 30s, £2 ; Silver Electro-plated, with
TONGS, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Or Cake KNIVES or FORKS. 20s, 255, 80s. Most Useful
for Afternoon Cake. All in Silk-lined Cases. Post Free.
THE FEDERAL TARIFF.
THIS I HAVE ANTICIPATED.
MY CASH PURCHASES have been Enormous,.
and I am in a position to sell at FREETRADE
PRICES. £32,000 worth of
WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELLERY, and
SILYERPLATE
to choose from. It will pay, and save you 25 to 50 per
cent. This is a consideration.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
AQaiit)daT>e THE WELL KNOWN JEWELLER
. SdiUIIUCI fc, AND SILVERSMITH.
815 and 817 GEORGE-STREET,
Nearly Opposite Railway Station.
A. SAUNDERS.
PUFF BOX, Pure Solid Silver, Pretty and
Ornamental, 255.
Silver-plated on White Metal, 17s 6d.
Silver Tops, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s. ’
NO ADVANCE. EREETRADE PRICES.
A. SAUNDEBS.
PTATB BBUBH, Pure Silver,
best Bristles, “Cherub” Design,
18s 6d. Other styles, 20s, 255,
80s, £2. S°nd for Pattern
EBEETPADE BOOK.
mmimin
H 1 i
yislP
uiuuuwiiuyi ,uu.ikwlluuuUliiW«'i
Wiiiiiliinij'illlil il.iui
illihitml
A. SAUNDEES.
FEEETEADE PBICES. SAVE YOU 25 to 50 PEE CENT.
Full-sized TOILET SET, Beautifully Chased, and Ornamented, in three patterns, “ Watteau ” as
above, “ Cherub,” and “ Floride,” Chased and Embossed Designs, Containing two Bair Brushes,
Hat and Cloth Brush, Mirror, Shoe Hook and Lift, £l2 10s. A most acceptable Ladies’ present.
f,v •
m
>K\k
\ \
i' 'l
wn
rrrr^jp
I! ■:•■•■£ <1 ><
Sf
*
V ■-/
£3s
FREETRADE PRICES. SAVE YOU 25 to 50 PER CENT.
A. SAUNDERS’ Newest Style in Pure Solid Silver Chased and Embossed,
4 o’clock Sugar Cream SPOON and TONGS, in Silk-lined Case. We
Stock three patterns similar to Illustration, £4 10s. A useful present.
A. SAUNDERS’ Pure Silver Pencils. We stock in every style, ss, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
Gold, 16s, 20s, 255, 80s, £2. Shall he pleased to send post free anywhere.
FREETRADE PRICES. NO ADYANCE.
*3- SEND YOUR ORDERS TO A. SAUNDERS.
I DO NOT INTEND TO ADVANCE MY PRICES.
FREETRADE PRICES-NO ADVANCE.
as
NOW IS THE TIME TO BUY AIL ARTICLES
AT FREETRADE PRICES.
A. SAUNDERS’ CAKE SERVER, Pure Solid Silver, Pearl Handle, in three styles, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d. The very latest London style.
Hji
A. SAUNDERS’ FREETRADE PRICES.
Dessert KNIVES and FORKS, Silver-plated; Nicely
Chased, £2 15s. 12 Pairs, £4 10s, £5, £5 10s.
A Useful Present.
iimmuminilll HlDriinr
A. SAUNDERS’ EREETRADE PRICES.
Two Peppers, Mustard, Pure Solid Silver, Beautifully
Chased and Finished, in Case, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS. NO ADVANCE.
Jam SPOON and Butter KNIFE, Pure Solid
Silver, in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d.
Pure Solid Silver Badger
Hair SHAVING
BBUSH, 12s 6d. Other
styles, 15s and 20s.
A Nice Present.
A. SAUNDKKts.
Smelling Salts BOTTIiE, Pure Silver,
255. Other styles, Silver Top, 2s 6d,
ss, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s
Gent.’s “ COMPANION,” or Letter Book,
Pure Silver Mounted, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 25a
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Soli I Silver-mounted PEPPERS and
SALTS, in 3 sizes, 4s 6d, 6s 6i, 7s 6d.
1 FREETRADE PRICES.
SAVE 25 to 50 PER CENT.
Ladies’ TOILET TABLE, Pure Solid Silver Pin TRAY, Artistically Chased
and Ornamented, 10s 6d. We stock in large quantity.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted KNIFE RESTS, in
Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS
FREETRADE PRICES.
®esee®c€)jc
RnMOMSM
egtjtm
mm*©®
£££&_
A. SAUNDERS’
FREETRADE PRICES,
THIMBLES, Silver Steel-
lined, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s 6d.
Pure Silver-
mounted
HAIR PIN
HOLDER, ss,
A. SAUNDERS.
SALTS, Pure Silver-mounted, White Out Glass,
in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d.
Call and See our Jewellery Exhibition A Splendid Display; or send for our 1901 Complete Illustrated Book, Post Pree anywhere.
A. SAUNDERS.
SAVE 25 to 50
PER CENT.
LEADING ART JEWELLER.
SAVE 25 to 60
PEB CENT.
815 & 817 GEORGE-STREET,
Nearly Onpo'e'te
Bailway Station,
SYDNEY-


SMITHS
niffliinnniflin«tir illllMi
nmi'imnnitMiniiiitiiii
SANITAS”
SANITAS- , S-r'i JAb
*OUB Twc RtttJ'ERED.IRASI HARiii .
‘'SANIT^'
NON POISONOUS.
| DOES NOT STAIN.
iD?S!NFECTANT. ANTISEPTIC.
! AND DEODORANT COMBINED.
I A PEOPLE’S HEALTH IS .a NAT !ON> Wc^'H
I T HE SAN'I.TAS COMPANV LIMHEO
Lb OETHN'ALItAEEN, LONDON.£- QJ
ISINFEGT
FLUID
l /■
ALSO
Powder, Soaps,
Sulphur (Fumigating) Candles,
and all kinds of Disinfectants.
“The list of ‘Sanitas’ preparations is now so great as to com-
“prise a complete antiseptic and disinfectant armamentarium.
“The cor •'position of most of these is based on ‘Sanitas, a
“deserve, v popular pleasant, and moreover active compound.
—Lancet, August 24th, 1896, p.6OL
“ HOW TO DISINFECT.”
800, sent FREE on application.
OF ALL CHEMISTS, AND
The “SANITAS” Co., Ltd., Bethnal Preen, London.
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
A POLICY FOR THE
Price 6d. ;
Posted, Bd.
COMMON W€ALTH-
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
TOILET
SOAP
BEST FOR THE SKIN and
COMPLEXION.
Antiseptic; Emollient, Refreshing.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &c.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
DRUNKEN H€SS,
OB THE LIQUOR HABIT POSITIVELY CURED |
BY ADMINISTERING
BT7C R A. S Y.
It can be given ssoretly or otherwise In tea, coffee, or
food, and Is the only remedy which can be taken at
home with certainty of suooese>
A REPORT.—After the first dose he was a different
man. Newcastle, N.S.W.—Dear Sir,—My husband
has been taking Eucrasy regularly for five days, with the
result that it has taken away the desire for drink of any
kind ; in fact, after the first dose he seemed a different
man. (Signed) K.E.R.
Write for book and testimonials from, living witnesses;
sent (sealed) Free. Address :
THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 HUNTER-ST, SYDNEY.
N.Z. Agency: ROBERT REW, Victoria-st., Auckland.
WE CURE MEN
_-=Ji
my
>| i 111
With Lame Backs
With Weak Nerves
With Rheumatism
With Lost Vitality
With all those signs which tell a man he is
breaking down, losing his grip. We have the
remedy which gives back that snap, fire, and
vim of youth. Our Cures sell our Belt. They
prove what we say about it.
Dr. McLaughlin Co., City.
Sydney, January 18th, 1902.
Dear Sirs,— Jn answer to your letter, asking about my
condition, I am glad to say that my sciatica is gradually
leaving me. The doctors told me a while back that I would
never get well, or go to work again, but I am now working
every day. My general health is very much improved ;in
fact, it seems 0.K.; and lam convinced by my experience
so far that I am going to get well.
I am telling my friends of the benefits the Belt has given
me ; my leg hardly ever pains me, and I am more than satis-
fied so far.
The day I bought your Belt I could scarcely walk ; in
fact I was so crippled that I did not want to leave the
house, but I bless the day that I called at your office.
I hope any fellow-sufferers may profit by my experience.
Yours very gratefully,
Kegworth-street, Leichhardt. W. J. OGLESBY.
A man is like a steam engine. It takes steam to make him go. Our Belt pumps that steam
into him.
That’s how it makes so many old men feel young.
There Is only
One Electric
Belt iu
Australasia —
Dr. MCLAUGHLIN’S.
I JOHN KING, Brisbane: ‘Your Belt entirely cured my back, and my sleep is always
refreshing. It’s worth ten times its cost.
Trv it, you weak man ; you will find youth and vigor in it after everything else fails.
► Q a ll and test it, or we will send you our Illustrated Book, free, if you will write, enclosing
\ this advertisement. POST PAID.
| OFFICE HOURS —9 a.m. to 9 p.m. NEVER SOLD BY DRUO STORES.
►The Dr. McLaughlin Co., 85 King St., Sydney
‘H ARLENE'
r. HAIR.
The very Finest Dressing.
Restores the Hair.
Promotes the Growth*
Arrests the Fall*
Strengthens the Roots*
Preserves the Hair*
Renders it Beautifully Soft.
Removes Dandruff.
Allays all Irritation.
Preserves, Strengthens, and Invigorates
Childrens’ Hair.
Fulldtsc’ iption and directions for use in
20 languages supplied with every bottle.
1/-, 2/6, and (triple a/6 size) 4/© per
Bottle from Druggists, &c., all over
the World.
111 'I I III muiiiiyitliHnyiii
ill
ri§s
m
Edwards’ Harlene Co.
High Holborn, London, Eng.
“Mamma, shall I have beautiful long hair like you when I grow up?"
“ Certainty, my dear, if you use Edwards' ‘ Harlene.' ” •. '
ROSES
-■xaUUDEP^-
g
Effective
jLmlmAimßfiJUw
WfAK Errs n*
CHEHS
, SSI CEORCE ST
tecaaittfl
REGD. LABEL.
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
. . FOE . .
ALL EYE COMPLAINTS
ariniwg from any cause whatever.
ASK FOR ROSE’S —^
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE for Sandy Blight, Granulations, Bunged Eyes,
Dimness of Sight, Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes caused by
Dust, Sun-Glare, Overwork, &c., Swelling Blight resulting from stings
of flies and insects.
Used with equal success on the Eyes of Cattle, Sheep, Poultry, <&c.
Largely used by Rifle-Shooters and Literary Men.
Testimonials from leading Commercial and Professional Men throughout Australia.
Sole Proprietor . . .
H. A. ROSE,
Dispensing
Chemist,
531 George St., Sydney
Sold by ail Chemists and Storekeepers. mrßeware of Imitations.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL, you enjoy your lunch
George and Market Sts-,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
Single Room, with Pull Board, Bs. per
day, or £2 2s. per week.
TERMS. The convenient
system of paying for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms ; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp —from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.30 —from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
SAUC
Dedicated
To the
Tables of
The World
c&a,
'WrtviAi
SAUCE.
AGENTS
VIRGOE, SON & CHAPMAN, and
Sydney.
D. COHEN 8c CO.,
THE
‘PLUM’
H € pi
THE
( PLUM’
ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
vl ijke a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO TEARS.
The “ PLUM " RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 78. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LICHTNINC RAZOR SHAttPENER, 6d cake.
n f Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21a.
PRICK j gj n Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s J Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful ease, 309.
Reoistbred and sent Post Free to ant part op tub World.
Blease add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEIM, 680 George-st., Sydney.
How do those squatters who gave their
cheques to send contingents to S’Africa relish the
advance in prices of shearing and shed-work,
“ manifestoed ” by the A. W. IT. —a natural result
of the depletion of the labor-market ? There s
trouble ahead in this “advance,” and many ot the
men themselves are doubtful of the wisdom of
raising the rates. But the employers have had a
great deal to say at different times about an
alleged Law of Supply and Demand, and, if there
is such a law, it seems to be on the men’s side
just now.
The following, clipped from a M.L. paper
becomes, on examination, merely a Smith-Brown
wedding, after all:
GUTHRIE-SMITH DENNISTOUN-BRQWN. On
the Ist October, at the Parish Church, Jamestown,
by the Rev. W. B. Stevenson, M.A., assisted by the
Rev. J. M. Webster, M.A., Row, and the Rev. D.
C. Miller. Jamestown, William Herbert Guthrie-
Suiith, Hawke’s Bay, M.L., eldest son of the late John
Guthrie-Smith, Mugdock Castle, Stirlingshire,
N. 8., to Georgina Meta, third daughter of the late
Alexander James Dennistoun-Brown, of Balloch
Castle, Dumbartonshire, N.B.
Prince Henry, husband of the Dutch
Queen, has published a statement in which_ he
denies the charges of cruelty made against him,
and argues that a Prince Consort’s life is never a
happy one. He gives (among other interesting
instances) :
Albert, the Coburger, who married the Queen of Eng-
land. Married for love, with the assistance of Uncle
Leopold, of Belgium. The British used to poke fun at
him and his Fatherland. Parliament gave him an income
that barely sufficed to pay for his gloves, and when he
asked for the title of King Consort, the House of Com-
mons wished to know whether he intended to call him-
self King Widower, if his wife should die before him.
Every year a child—when there were nine Albert
succeeded in obtaining the poor title of Prince Consort.
The multitude of children his wife bore finally gained him
a certain degree o-f popularity, and in the end his position
was quite comfortable and he was allowed to open agri-
cultural shows. Albert didn’t have much to say at home,
but he did his best.


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
. A most useful Veterinary Book is attached
to every bottle of Oondy’s Fluid. This Book
contains instructions for curing most of the
ailments and accidents affecting Horses,
Dogs, Sheep, Cattle and Poultry.
Eminent Veterinary Surgeons recom-
mend Condy’a Fluid as an absolutely
certain cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
Broken Knees, Grease, Thrush and
Cracked Heels in Horses—Scab, Foot
Rot, Fly, etc., in Sheep—Hoove, Foul in
the Foot, Wounds and Sores in Cattle.
Condy's Fluid is made by Gondy &
Mitchell, Ltd., of 65, Goswell Road,
London, England, and is sold by all
Chemists and Stores. Beware of Colonial
substitutes. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
fsd
GO XO HELX.-
IGOLAN!) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
HATS~ HATS. hatsT
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fatted with this
valuable invention.
Catalogue to B. MOUlltCaStle & SOIIS,
BRISBANE.
Important Announcement to our City and Countr y
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
J<'urniture and fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Booms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro*
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Ilootns.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk strip*
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/ - per Jlalj-dosea, jree by post throajhout
A astral in.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE
THERE iS NO BUGGY
so suitable for all Back Country work as
Will do the work of a Buckboard; ride as
easy as a Buggy. Has no undergear, yet is not a Buckboard ; all the body on
springs, yet Ts not a Buggy. Same Price, any Port, any State in the Common-
wealth. WE PAY THE FREIGHT, and Duties are off.
_CASH ONLY,
SIMPSON’S
‘GIL GAI.’
SIDNEY SIMPSON, Coachbuilder, 73 King St, Newtown, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Seddon’s next contingent is expected to
fully earn for him the formal offer of that talked-
about governorship of the Orange River Colony.
Officially estimated that the election of a
successor to the late F. W. Piesse, M.H.R., who
died at Hobart, March 6, will cost fully £l2OO.
For a bye-election. Tasmania’s Hare seems rather
a costly animal.
S.A. Labor party makes no secret of the
fact that it would sooner see Premier Jenkins
defeated at the coming elections than secure the
discomfiture of Opposition leader. Darling. The
false friend is always more hated than the open
enemy, and Jenkins Iscariot accumulates unpopu-
larity fast.
Queer sentence from the Catholic Press :
The other Sydney evening paper, the Star, which
usually has shown from time to time that its sympathies
are wholly anti-Catholic, &c.
How sadly we are all misunderstood in this bad
world ! Also, what does the Catholic Press
want, if the Toohey-Hogan-Larkin organ doesn’t
come up to its mark ?
Justice G. B. Simpsofi emphatically con-
demns the N.S.W. practice of imprisoning per-
sons who fail to pay law-costs (the victim in the
case immediately under notice happened, by
the way, to be a lawyer). It is a pity that
Justice Simpson, when Attorney-General, and
able to do something tangible in the matter, was
not as emphatic as he is now.
During the last eight years for which
information is available (1893 to 1900, both in-
clusive) New South Wales lost 4960 people by
excess of departures over arrivals. It lost 5260
men, and gained 300 females. None of the Com-
monwealth States (bar Westralia, which is in an
unnatural condition of boom arising from huge
loans) attracts immigrants nowadays.
The blood-drunk Seddon sends another
1000 Maorilanders to help the Hebrew vulture-
squatter pick the eyes out of the brave little Boer
cocky who has selected on what Cohen considers
should be his run. If there is any gratitude in
Judea and its environments, then should the gold-
plated bingey of the ex-Radical Bun Tuck present
THE LAST POSSIBILITY IN THE WAY OF SCORN.
THE EMU (with contempt): “Bah! Try some other game. Can you
play ping-pong? ”
a gorgeous spectacle in the very forefront of the
Coronation.
London Times is of opinion that “ a strate-
gist of ability, exercising initiative based upon
good and rapid information,” is what is wanted to
cope with Adrian de la Rey—the man who cap-
tured Methuen. It wasn’t a brilliant remark—
that is the kind of strategist who is wanted in
every war to oppose every general of any account
—but the dull observation was reprinted in almost
every paper in Australia, as if it was the bray of
an oracle.
Little Sammy Way, when sentencing
highway-robber Lawson at Adelaide Supreme
Court, solemnly reminded the prisoner that once
his offence was punishable by death, and he
seemed to regret that the law had been changed.
If a Justice of the Peace were to tell a child, con-
victed of pilfering five shillings, that once it
might have been hanged for the crime, he also
would speak the truth, but he probably would be
counted an ass for his historical pains.
Melbourne Age speaks softly and gently
of the mutiny in the ranks of the Vic. section of
the 2nd Commonwealth contingent at Langwarrin:
The root of the trouble may, perhaps, be found in the
want of tact on the part of one of the officers, who, being
a thorough and zealous soldier, was perhaps a little abrupt
in his manner.
How does this appeal to the gentle-spoken, doe-
eyed General Hutton ! What is militarism coming
to in Australia when the rank and vile will not
permit their officers to be “a little abrupt” even?
The Labor crowd in the Federal Parlia-
ment should insist on getting the Electoral Bill
through before allowing the session to end.
Without it, half of them, on returning to their own
States, will find that they have no electoral foot-
hold, and a dissolution would mean chaos. In
Queensland, where there are separate residential
and property rolls, P.-M.-G. Drake and others
have retained a hold on the latter by keeping up
small offices which they never use, so they are
safe ; but the Labor man can’t afford that sort of
thing, and there would be no end of trouble in the
event of an election.
When the leader is rejected and most of
the party is rejected it generally implies that that
party isn’t wanted. The Queensland Remnant,
which used to be the Opposition, has come back
about four strong, but its alleged leader, Jenkin-
son, of Progress, went under in Wide Bay
electorate. Old George Thorn (in his day said to
be the handsomest man in Queensland) was also
among the lost. After 35 years of politics, during
which he climbed up to the Premiership (though
he only held the billet in a stopgap sort of way
for nine months) he was wiped out at Fassifern
by over 100 votes.
Certain provincial politicians, more espe-
cially Queensland’s Philp, are wrought up because
the Federal Parliament proposes to tax articles
imported by State Governments for their own
use. Philp’s line of argument is that if, say,
£50,000 worth of railway material, averaging 10
per cent, duty, is imported by Queensland, the
piebald State will lose £5OOO through the Customs.
The fact that Queensland will get the money back
in the division of the Federal surplus doesn’t
occur to the raging and illogical Philp, who, in
his present frame of mind, would probably rage
just as furiously if it wasn’t proposed to tax State
imports. The spectacle of a Queenslander violently
robbing his brother Queenslander with one hand,
and vehemently restoring the money with the
other horrifies Philp.
The A.W.U. (bush-
workers of N.S.W., Vic.
and S.A.), by resolution
at a recent conference,
gave the straight tip to
Labor M’sP. —“The
majority require a better
knowledge of land and
financial matters, and
more vigor in agitation
for reform.”
anxious to
know why it is that B.
R. Wise and Bill Lyne
(so recently Cabinet asso-
ciates) are on such cool
terms can find the ex-
planation in the fact
that Wise is more than
suspected of having
assisted to dish Lyne’s
chances of forming a
Federal Ministry. The
yarn goes that Barton
resigned leadership of
N.S.W. Opposition in
favor of Lyne, on condi-
tion that if Lyne got
the offer of the Federal
Premiership, he should
pass the latter promptly
on to Barton. Wise is
said to have known of
this compact and to have
worried around pretty
considerably to see that
it was kept.
N.S.W. State Treasurer Waddell states
that he hopes to introduce a new Audit Bill next
session, and put the weary cornstalk accounts at
last upon a Gash Basis. But after all it is much
more important to put them on an Honest Basis.
If Waddell, for instance, would say something
about the mean little three-card device of annex-
ing the rents of unpaid-for properties in the
resumed area of Sydney as ordinary revenue, and
paying the interest on the purchase money (which
should have come out of these rents) with loan
moneys, he would be talking about a Cash Btsis
of some real public interest.
Adelaide people, who, the other day, while
suffering from temporary insanity, approved of
the Snow tramway grab, had under their noses a
very striking proof of the superiority of public
ownership and control. For years the line to
Glenelg, Adelaide people’s seaside resort, has
been in private hands; and the return journey (6J
miles), in the dirtiest and most uncomfortable
carriages in the State, cost Is. 6d. Inside six
months, under State ownership, the carriages have
been a bit improved and the service much im-
proved, cheap excursions increased threefold, and
IT IS COMING .
“London, Feb. 3.—Mr Rudyard Kipling strongly de-
precates what he calls “ patching a peace” for the
coronation, and avers that the granting of an amnesty to
the Gape rebels would prove the severest blow ever ad-
ministered to the trust of Australia and Canada in Great
Britain.”
CHAMBERLAIN : “In settling terms of peace we must
consult our allies.”
JOHN BULL (when it’s all over): “ Gerrout! I
wouldn't ha’ given the poor devil half as
much if it hadn’t ’a’ been for you.”
the regular fare brought down from Is. 6d. to
Is. Id.
Perth Morning Herald :
It was a great misfortune for the Commonwealth that
the Governor-General decided it was his duty to send for
Mr. Barton. “ Australia’s Noblest Son ” has failed
miserably to rise to the occasion. It is said also that he
neglects his duties in the House— that his speeches are
ofteD inept, and that the real Prime Minister is Mr.
Kingston.
Well, The Bulletin barracked for Kingston for
a year or more before the Ministry was formed, as
the man who should be Premier, anch it is still
proud of its nominee.
Draper Sargood, M.L.C., has been illumi-
nating Maoriland with his intellect and trying to
give a friendly lift to the cause of cheap nigger
labor and reaction. Among other things he told
a Maoriland paper that “ It is a great mistake to
employ white men as stokers on mailboats. . . as
is is impossible for them to stand the strain.”
Poor old Sargood evidently thinks that the “ Boys
of the Bulldog Breed ” are only fitted to struggle
at the ribbon counter or support the heat and
burden of the hat department. The white man
does stoke on steamboats in the tropics, and he
does stand the strain, and that ends the matter.
White men aren’t all flabby drapers.
One of the loads on the mind of Engitieer-
in-Chief O’Connor, who suicided in Westralia the
other day, was the legacy which Bigjohn Forrest
left, in the law which provides that all persons
temporarily employed by Govt, for two years
become permanent by an automatic process. This
was so clumsily put that every laborer on the
Coolgardie water scheme and other works long in
progress will either have to be supplied with em-
ployment for the rest of his life or got rid of
before his two years are up. The one device was
impossible, and the other was uncongenial to
kindly “ C.Y.,” as O’Connor was always called in
the Westralian public service.
Cable :
The Secretary of State for War stated in the House of
Commons that the time had not yet come to consider the
employment of Indian troops in South Africa.
“ Not yet come! ” So that it is a possibility of
the 20th century that white farmers who re-
sist a shameless robbery will be dragooned
into obedience by hired Indian savages. Sultan
Mahmoud brought black troops to Europe to fight
against white men in the ’2o’s, and Britain,
France, and Russia fell on him for doing it.
Britain brought black troops to Europe to oppose
white men in ’7B, and Europe has never forgotten
the episode.
Sydney’s water supply scheme, with its
uncemented open channel and its cumbersome and
costly pumping arrangements, is a comparatively
new affair—the water only started to run through
it in 1888. Even then many good engineers de-
clared that the pumping idea was bound to be a
disappointment, and that a gravitation scheme
was the only satisfactory plan. It took a very
few years to prove they were correct. Sydney
spread up on the hills where the water wouldn’t
flow, and by 1899 more than half the supply had
to be pumped up. In a city where almost every-
thing depends on pumps trouble comes just as
soon as the machinery or the Jake Garrard in
charge begins to grow old.
Federal members, it seems, are allowed
free passes on the railways for their wives
as well as themselves —whether bachelor
members are allowed to pass on the
concession to other men’s wives is not
stated. The timorous policy of
the Government is to seek, by
questionable little concessions
of this kind, to avoid meet-
ing the just and necessary
claim for more pay on
the part of Federal
members. The <£4oo
a year, after deduct-
ing election expenses
and other necessary
outlay, leaves a mem-
ber about £l5O a
year to live on.
Naturally, then, in
time either (1)
members won]t
attend to their
business ; or (2)
representation will
be confined to men
who are so dis-
gustingly rich that
they can afford to
give up their busi-
nesses altogether, and
to men who are worth
only £l5O a year. A
salary of £BOO a year wouldn’t necessarily
produce a perfect legislature ; but it would
go far towards giving electors a decent
range of choice.
Sydney’s Sunday Times philosophically
accounts for Methuen’s forces falling a prey to
De la Rey:
The stand made by the British does not se'ftm to have
been very desperate, but just at dawn is the hour when
human courage is at the lowest ebb, as Lord Wolseley has
pointed out.
But it was at dawn the Boers made the attack,
and whatever is in the theory must have affected
their “ human courage” also. The S.T. seems to
have a hazy idea that when two armies fight each
other it doesn’t necessarily follow that they fight
at the same time. By the way, it was the Duke
of Wellington who said that what he admired was
“ two-o’clock-in-the-morning courage.”
Brisbane Courier speaks to two Queens-
land electorates which didn’t elect supporters of
Premier Philp :
Maryborough sacrificed two seats by the same folly that
has characterised the overlapping of candidatures in the
Valley, and the principal electorates of the Wide Bay
bunch are now in the hands of Labor. This may give
Ministers a good excuse, if one is required, for leaving
Maryborough and Gympie severely alone—a possibility
to be deplored from the point of view of centres of popu-
lation with everything to gain by Government representa-
tion. Rockhampton has joined Maryborough in refusing
to give Mr. i’hi'p either countenance or support.
So Philp’s most earnest supporter broadly hints
that the Philp Government is a corrupt institu-
tion, which buys support with public money, and
only gives public T,r orks to electorates which
return Philpite memoers! How pleasant it is to
have a friend like that.
Wesbralian goldfields water-supply pipe-
line has been inspected by a Perth Herald special
who reports :
Hitherto the one caulking by machinery has been con-
sidered sufficient, but a private test conducted some time
ago at Chidlow’s Well gave a deplorable demonstration of
the failure of the single caulking, and before the work on
that portion so tested was considered finished satisfactorily
for inspection by the engineer-in-chief it was gone over by
the machine no less than four separate times. The
machine-caulking has been carried on for a considerable
distance —somewhere beyond Northam —and the pipes
have been covered in for miles. The showing of the
private test in which it was demonstrated that with the
one caulking the water squirted and leaked from every
joint convinced the engineers that all the ground at that
time covered by the machines and considered as finished
would have to be gone over again. The cost of this extra
work will be large, and even then there is no guarantee
by test that the machine-caulking, done even thrice over,
will be effective in rendering the joints impervious to
leakage.
The cheap-and-nasty methods of official-
dom are illustrated by the evidence given re the
proposed abolition of the Lithgow Zigzag—itself a
cheap expedient to save the cost of tunnelling.
Now that the money spent on that “great
triumph of engineering skill ” is admitted to have
been mostly wasted, the Commissioners, although
they can get a ruling grade of 1 in 90 to replace it,
deliberately prefer as a temporary expedient a
grade of 1 m 50, because the first cost would be a
trifle less. The lin 50 grade will require a push-
up engine to take the train over it, and, that being
a costly and cumbersome dodge, the new grade
will probably be abandoned in another ten years.
But it makes present cost look less, even if the works
have to be abandoned in a few years with a total
loss of the capital. The country will go on paying
interest on the soon-to-be-abolished Zigzag, as
well (if the Commissioners get their way) as on
the 1 in 50 line, and when that goes the way of its
predecessor, the interest on the 1 in 90 line, which
will replace it, will be piled unnoticed on the
others.
Just as he is about to leave for the
Coronation crawl, Premier Seddon has discovered
that the glory of the Hempire cannot be com-
pleted without an Imperial Customs Union, and
for the present the idea is being run for all it is
worth. Joseph Ward, speaking at Onehunga the
other day, said that there was no reason why
“we shouldn’t have a commercial treaty with
Japan thrown in.” Jingo madness in Maoriland
has in the past been a good deal fostered by the
hope of making a profitable wool-and-meat deal
with England. Now the wild, blood-drunk poli-
ticians of that unhappy country want to sacrifice
its trade interests on the altar of Jingoism. An
Imperial Customs Union, with its consequent
reprisals by other nations, would work sad havoc
with Australasia’s export trade to France, Ger-
many, Belgium, &c., without giving any com-
pensating benefit; also it would practically destroy
Protectionism here, since this country mainly
wants Protection against its colored fellow-
subject of India, and its sweated brother in-
England.
ENGLAND’S GLORY!
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I’m tired of England’s glory,
Or what they glory call—
It’s not a Christian story.
I’m tired of England’s glory :
Her hands are too, too gory
To touch the Book at all!
I’m tired of England’s glory,
Or what they glory call.
E. CRAWFROD.


A PIANOLA in the Home.
ITS PRACTICAL USB.
Does the Cost of the Pianola bring enough pleasure
in return to warrant the investment ?
THE Pianola will enable every owner of a piano to play
upon his own piano whenever he desires. Not only
this, but every member of the family can also play upon it—
not one or two pieces, but practically every composition ever
written for the piano.
Did you ever stop to consider how much pleasure there is
stored up in your piano ? Have you counted the number of
times in a month it is used, aside from the tedious practice
of a child ? Perhaps you or some member of your family
plays a little,” but the difference between playing a little
and playing everything you wish is considerable. It is
worth thinking about. The Pianola supplies the deficiency.
It even makes no difference if you do not know one note
from another.
The fingers of the Pianola rest upon the piano-keys, and
strike the notes for you just as they are printed on the
music sheet.
You experience all the pleasure of playing, because you
control the expression which is the soul of music. Your
mood or taste enters into, and gives a distinct individuality
to the rendition. It is this which gives the Pianola its
fascination to the musically critical, and caused Paderewski
to endorse it. It is this human element, permitting a musi-
cal result in the true sense of the word which has caused
Paderewski, Sauer and Rosenthal to have Pianolas in their
own homes. The repertory of these great pianists is
limited to twenty-five or fif y compositions which they can
play in concert form at any one lime. They are glad to
have it increased by the Pianola, and to be able to play
without troubling with the notes.
With the Pianola you can play every style and class of
music ever composed—Liszt Rhapsodies, Chopin’s Noc-
turnes. the grand operas of Wagner and Verdi, light operas
of Sullivan and De Koven, and all the latest popular
favourites. In fact, with the aid of a Pianola you can play
upon your piano any selection you wish, you can have dance
music or song accompaniments, and the question of finding
“some one to p'ay ” need never arise.
It may be purchased on the hire system if desired. Send
for Catalogue.
The Pianola is the only piano-player endorsed
by musicians of note.
Che JEoiian Co. of new Vcrk.
HENRY M. B/RGE A GO..
SYDNEY: 323 George Street.
MELBOURNE: 185 & 187 Collins Street.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
PADEREWSKI.
“ It is perfection.”
ROSENTHAL.
“ Nothing has more
closely approached hand
playing.”
OE PACHMANN.
“ The Pianola’s playing
has the characteristics of
the work of the human
fingers.”
SAUER.
“ The Pianola gives me
more pleasure than thou-
sands of so-called treats
of pianistic effort."
MOSZKOWSKI.
“ Anyone who will hear
the Pianola for the first
time will surely think
that it is a virtuoso that
plays.”
MANCINELLI.
“ I have been astonished
at the performances of
your Pianola, which
differs radically from any-
thing of the kind I have
ever heard.”
PAUR.
“Nothing of the kind I
have ever heard before
can approach the Pianola.
In the hands of a com-
petent player all the
shading, crescendo, as
well as modification of
tempi, are remarkably ac-
curate.”
BISPHAM.
“ The simulation of the
highest artistic playing
by the Pianola is surpris-
ingly close and is far be-
yond anything of the kind,
hitherto known, many of
the possible effects being
quite beyond the capa-
bility of most pianists.”
The other day when Federal Commandant
Hutton heard that there was a mutiny in the
Victorian section of the Federal contingent he
immediately hurried Colonel Tom Price on to the
scene. Said that as soon as the colonel arrived he
let go a good satisfying stream of his eloquence,
and fairly swept the mutiny off its feet. Then he
came back and reported that he “ spoke” to the
men, “and there won’t be any more mutiny.” He
spoke low and laid them out, in fact.
STRICTURE 0F25 YEARS’ STANDING
FISTULA AND
RUPTURE
Ineffectually treated In London and Sydney Hospitals.
CURED BY
VITADATIO
INVESTIGATE THIS CASE.
52 Goodhope-street, Paddington,
Sydney, April 6,1900.
Mr. S. A. PALMER,
Vitadatio Institute, 181 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Dear Sir,—lt affords me the greatest pleasure to testify
to the wonderful curative properties of Webber’s VITA-
DATIO, for which you are the sole Australasian dis-
tributor. For 25 years I suffered with STRICTURE. At
last I had to go into the Sydney Hospital. Underwent
an operation, but derived no benefit. Shortly after
leaving the hospital a FISTULA formed, which also
caused me great pain. During a gale at sea I had the
misfortune to become RUPTURED on BOTH SIDES.
Returning to Sydney, I again entered the hospital, and
remained there five (5) months, undergoing another pain-
ful operation, from which I derived no benefit. In this
state I determined to try VITADATIO. The third bottle
began to make itself felt, and I took nine bottles
with me to sea. My friends never expected to see me
again alive, but to-day I am in better health than I have
been for the past 25 years, and have increased in weight
from 9st. 61b. to over 13st. This is entirely due to
Webber’s VITADATIO, and it cannot be too widely
published. lam well-known in Sydney, and you are at
liberty to publish this for the benefit of others. In con-
clusion, my friends in Vancouver were so astonished at
my recovery that they have ordered me to obtain a supply
from you for them.—Yours truly,
(Signed) GEO. BUTCHER.
Mr. Butcher will be glad to answer any questions
relative to his case at the above address.
For further particulars,
s. A . PALMER ,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
AUSTRALIAN . .
STAMPS
Highest Cash Prices Paid
to any amount for
Old or Rare Stamps,
Used or Unmet
The First
Australian Stamp.
For Sale—The Largest Stock of STAMPS, ALBUMS, etc.,
in the Southern Hemisphere.
SMYTH & NICOLLE, 14 Hunter-st., Sydney
A copy of “A Policy for the Common-
wealth,” The Bulletin’s particularly suc-
cessful pamphlet, will be posted from this office to
any Australian address on receipt of Bd. in stamps
of any State).
We Don’t Supply
the Wind.
VERY LITTLE NEEDED WITH
aaa
fds
The “gem” Windmill
AMERICA’S GREAT GALVANISED FLYER
. . WITH . .
GALVANISED STEEL TOWER.
Absolutely the Highest Grade Windmill on the
market. Estimates furnished for Mill and Pump
complete.
M'LEAN BROS. & RIGG LTD.
Melbourne & Sydney.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Rov/’S €ti)brocatioo
for Outs, Sprains, Bruises, Bheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints it. MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’S €n)brocatioi).
BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
For Coughs and Colds.
Every Dose Effective.
Will Cure when Others Fail.
For Pain in the Side.
Best for Influenza.
In Bronchitis and Loss of Voice.
Whooping Cough and Croup.
For Children, Safe and Sure
The late J. Kingston (the “Australian abroad
of many an Argus article) bequeathed £25,000 to
Melbourne Benevolent Asylum for the purpose of
rebuilding the institution on a ground floor plan only,
in the interests of old and rheumaticky patients who
find the staircases very troublesome especially on return-
ing from their occasional “ day-out.” A small portion of
the £25,000 might as well have been devoted to a
Benevolent Whisky Fund. What the old ones need is a
drop of D.C.L. not to cure their rheumatics—for not even
the Whisky of the Wise can do that— but to make life
worth living on a ground floor or anywhere else.*
If imitation is really “the smcerest form
of flattery,” the proprietor’s of Phosferine may
plume themselves upon the numerous attempts
made in Australasia to foist upon the public
various useless concoctions, trading upon the well-
earned reputation—as Recuperator, Energiser,
and- General Health-Restorer—of Ashton and
Parsons’ Phosferine, the King of Nerve Tonics.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney
(Corner of Clarence Street)
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES . . .
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pumps, Turbine Fans.
(Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
Messrs. GREENWOOD & BATLEY LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors, Pumps, etc.
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
i»eniatPti Cables, Wires, Tapes, etc.
REFORM PRICE OPTICIANS.
Visitors to Sydney should take the opportunity of visiting our Optical Department. We stock every
description of Spectacles and Byf-CI sses of the very best quality at the VERY LOWEST PRICES.
f
dsf
Note—Our Only Australian Address —
We Test
Sight
Scientifically
FREE OF
CHARGE.
sdf
■
Opticians and Art Jewellers, 90 King Street, Sydney.
BOOTS BY POST.
m . M
.
MM-
■Bmiß
,‘v
i'-: ■
mtmmssm
immmmmmmm
■V • w •
■
Corn-fort is
Certain.
Why, then,
Hesitate
About
Ordering ?
Ladies ordering from the
country can quite easily get
new and stylish Boots or Shoes
BY POST ; they can get all
the advantages in value that keen
city competition affords ; they can,
by following the instructions we gi\ c
below, get an accurate, comfortable fit.
1. State size worn, and, if necessary, send
an old one as a check.
2. Place the foot upon a piece of paper and,
firmly pressing it down, draw a pencil line
closely round it for shape of tread.
3. State if your foot is narrow, medium, or broad, as we have
slightly different widths in every size.
4. State whether broad, medium, or narrow toes required.
This is a thorouj
iJT
15/11; Post Paid, 16/6.
jhly good reliable BUTTON BOOT, made of American glace-kid, with a dressy stylish
patent leather toe-cap. Wear as well as comfort undoubted.
CALLACHAN BOOTS OR SHOES can be EXCHANGED if not correct
Your Money RETURNED if you are not satisfied with the Bhoea.
CALLACHAN & SON, 395 George St., Sydney
The second death among members of the
House of Representatives is that of F. W. Piesse,
of Tasmania. Mr. Piesse was a native of Hobart,
a conveyancer by profession, and was formerly a
member of Tas. Assembly, and later of Tas.
Legislative Council. Though he failed to make a
permanent mark in politics, and fell short of his
early promise (inasmuch as he started as a demo-
cratic single-taxer and wound up anyhow), he was
a kindly soul and made many friends, both in and
out of politics, by his unobtrusive conscientious_-
ness in little things. Big things were beyond
him ; a weak frame and a not too powerful mind
are a combination that doesn’t run to big things.
If a man’s democracy increases with his years it
is an unerring sign of vitality. Having no vitality
to speak of, F. W. Piesse drifted along the ordi-
nary track, from a gentle and not too militant
radicalism to a gentle and unoffending conserva-
tism. But even if he had lived 20 years longer he
would never have been a bigot. His kindliness
of heart was a sufficient guarantee of that.
The Booth family keeps dropping away
from the hook-nosed old autocrat who runs the
Salvation Army. Ballingtoh Booth was the first
to go, and so bitter was he against the grasping
progenitor that he is taking steps to change the
front name of his eldest son, called after the
Founder of the Tomato-colored Sect. Catherine
Booth and her husband left to join Dowie. JNoW
a sort of tallow thunderbolt strikes Melbourne
iSvith the news that Commandant Herbert Booth
and his wife have left the Army, and apparently
despised and rejected the reddish togs which they
have worn so long. Commandant Herbert now
calls himself plain Mr. Booth and gives his
address at a post-office box —not at any of the
Salvariny establishments. He assigns ill-health
as the reason for his resignation and says he is
going into business —and a man would naturally
give up a good secure billet to start life afresh in
his middle age amid the bitter scramble of
commerce because he was ill and needed rest. It
seems as if old man Booth will be left to pass a
very lonesome plate in his closing years. Ihe
family is getting away fast from him and all his
works (strange yarns are current about old man
Booth’s doings nowadays), and his solitary red
suit will soon begin to look a lonesome blot on
the Booth clothes-line on washing day. On that
line the washing of many Booths used to look
like a long record of bloodshed —the blood or
the underpaid printer perhaps, and the sweated
laundress.


Banking. Public Companies, fto.
Upon - all - Classes -
Security.— mm
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
at*
4P
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
UNT.S/W.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
*7 A CASTLEREAGH ST., 174.
SYDNEY ‘
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
TJIK—>
Colonial Mutual I>ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
Fort
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out. Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. 3 F. Burns, Chairman ; lion. C. J. Robbrts,
C.M.G., M.L.G. ; Baucis Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372 —assuring £26,085,346.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE*
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.LA., General Manager.
The Bank of ||orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... £100,090
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 900 ... £350.000
Queensland Smelting Qompg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
TJUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-T* Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap. ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
i|eui Zealand Insurance (Jo.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
3. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
81 Pitt St., Sydney.
T*> € Trustees, Cxe^CitorS,
AND
Conjpaov Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... £BB5B 7 3
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1901 ... £6,388,976 5 3
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROIVMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managet
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMIT KD. “
CAPITAL PAID-UP £423,000
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 209,581
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 54,000
• £686,581
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital
.. £2,500,000
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks.
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq. Wellington : H.
Beauchamp, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
*l. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
GENTS.^-
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne '
Shipping;
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Sat., March 22, 12 Noon.
Gabo, Tuesday, March, 25, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., March 29,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., April 15, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
fbemantle
Buninyong, Tues., April 15, 5 p.m.
(No Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Saturday, March 22,12 Noon.
Barrabool, Tues., March 25, 6 p.m.
Tyrian, Sat., March 22, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, March 22,12 Noon.
Tyrian, Sat., March 22,12N00n.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALPTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and 00., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
* Calling at Hobart.
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
Huddart, Parker & Co’s ||ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Pares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
A.JSTT3
INE
San Francisco,
California.
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS,
TIME TABLE
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SIERRA
SONOMA
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P.
Length, 425 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., ISTD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
IN CONNECTION WITH
CANADIAN-PACIFIC RAILWAY.
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE
via Brisbane, Fiji, Honolulu,
Vancouver „
STEAMERS SAIL—
March 24, April 21, May 13.
Cheapest Rates to America.
Special Rates, Single and
Return to London.
Send for Illustrated Pamphlet Descriptive of route.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSOraiKc Society.
(ESTABLISHED 1879.)
THE MOST LIBERAL AND PROGRESSIVE
LIFE OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA.
HEAD OFFICE :
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and Castlereagh
Streets, Sydney.
VICTORIAN BRANCH :
Baring Chambers, Market Street, Melbourne.
Wm. Bennett, Manager.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH :
36 and 38 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
JAS. GLI'SSAN, Resident Secretary.
GEO. CROWLEY, General Manager.
WANTED
JF YOU ARE SUFFERING from any of the following
ailments, viz., Rheumatism, Sciatica, Vital Weak-
ness, Liver Complaint, Dyspepsia, Lame Back or
Debility, Kidney Disease or any Organic Derange-
ments, we want you to wear one of our ELECTRIC
BELTS, and when CURED to let other sufferers know
that our ELECTRIC BELTS will permanently CURE
when all other Remedies have FAILED. We prefer those
cases who have failed to obtain relief elsewhere. Send
us a description of your case, and size around the waist
next to skin. Address—
ARTHUR HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
44 Castle reagl>st., Sydney.
London Address : 105 Regent Street, W
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 23 Cabinet size photos.
ss. P. 0.0. or stamps.
8. RECKNACEL NACHF, Munich) 1 Brieffach, Cermany.
The Ways of Many Waters
Bv E. J BRADY.
sd
N. ID. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
♦Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO SINGAPORE,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. TANGLIN, 30th APRIL,
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
30 Days’ Trial.
fsd
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
HELPS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be.
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Bell that it
will permanently cure you. If ifc does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers a. Wigmakers.
Send, to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Homan Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
CRAIQ & AITKE3XT,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
For Sale.
STEAM LAUNCH FOR SALE.—
Length 45ft. Licensed to carry 40; built about
three years. Apply—
McCOY & McCOY, Solicitors,
City Mutual Chambers, Hunter-Street, Sydney.
Telephone 2366.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
for MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE bay
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping-at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports i
S.S. Ointra,
Friday, March 21.
S.S. Marloo
(from Melbourne),
Tuesday, April 1.
BRISBANE
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Allinga,
Friday, March 21.
S.S. Adelaide,
Saturday, March 22.
dJ ieSt rt nd €h < ia Pest Route to Goldfields.
fivof °^ n ■ p^ss f^ e tickets are interchangeable after the
nrst Tort between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith Co.,
Jr* Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. onlv. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. INI. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Magnificent Steamship*, as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
tivowre AND B °CKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN-Every 3 Weeks, via BrU
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Norman ton.
QvnSSo’ NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly. J
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA
Fortnightly.
Passent/er Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
n "‘P°rt between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application,
ror Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
_.BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, lit Bridge-
and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P and o. COMPANY’S
" ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR_ MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
r ux xxuuai u
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON-Single, £3B 10s to £/7
t, . Ditto Return, £7llos to£l2l
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific, and
Messagenes Maritimes Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows : -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer.
Tns Commander. Leave Sydney.
GUTHRIE .. 2500 I W. G. M‘Arthur.. April
EASTERN . 3600 Winthrop Ellis ..May
AIRLIE 25005 t. John George.. May ‘
AUSTRALIAN .. 3000 P. T. Helms .. June 5
The above steamers were specially built for the Easter
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY COt
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, Unite
States of America and Europe at special rates in coi
junction with the Canadian-Pacific and other Steamshi
Companies.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.’
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
. . SMOKE.
THE
GBD
INSIST
on having this Brand
and no other.
AGENTS
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT ICQ.
231 Clarence Street, Sydney.


HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : ELLIOTT BUDS., Sydney.. Purchasers sliould
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
I'll Try It.”
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result
CRAIG &. AITKEN, N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House, 680-682 GEORGE STBEET, SYDNEY.
USB
SPOONER’S
fij
===l::;!‘»a \«
iM
SPOONERS
iMpI
v 7®f *
„ •ir*'
IiATENT LEATHER BOOTS
GLAZED RTOS W
• •'-•*< r.-.
; +»'* *+*+n
!•» *••«*•**•»*♦••*»
H'»< J €r L *.*» •* , *'* < *•*
m.*
lUIII!
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and 13.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATIOM,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
SIMPLIFIED
PHOTOGRAPHY
KODAK
Photography is the easy Photography. Can be mastered by
anyone in a few minutes. No dark room is required for
changing the films.
fsd
The No. 2
PLICO .
KODAK
A Kodak for a guinea, to take pictures 3% x 354 inches. Carries
a roll of films for 12 exposures. Send for Price List and
mention this paper.
Other KODAKS from 6s. to JBB 18s.
KODAK Ltd. &
Reduced,
THE BLOCK
284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Free Lessons Daily at 3 p.m., at the above address.
fd
PLAIN NOM€ TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Ohromos. 200 Illustrations. 1200 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1901 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted to any address for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art op Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aubt. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
'How to Dance, new work, Is posted.
Secrets op Ancient and Modern Magic, Is 6d, post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How TO Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted. ;
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 -latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
Balzac’s Droll Stories, Is 3d posted.
j The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
! 100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 ilins. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid'
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Pa, Ma and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Metal Working, Brazing, etc., Is 3d.
Send for my Illustrated Big: Book
atalogrue—post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
Dr. Clarkson’s Electrio Belt,
will All your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr.OLARKSON’SRE-INVIGORATOR
' «
will briny, happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC. w ß »ns is truly wona-rfui.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. , RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for -
own- r c a u t t e drug stohes,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
4:
: ’
a
a
■
SBB
'
s..':
HERR RASSMUSSEN (HANS PETER RASMUSSEN),
The Celebrated Danish Botanist
Proprietor and Discoverer of the World-Famed Alfaline Herbal Remedies,
which have been the means of effecting the most marvellous Cures for Blood,
Skin and Nervous Diseases ever heard of in Australia.
Herr Rassmussen’s Australian Career:
It is about Twenty Years since Herr
Rassmussen introduced his Herbal Remedies
to the Australian Public. At that time
he was only known to the public as a Botanist
pure and simple, having devoted almost his
whole life to the study of that most useful
and interesting branch of science. It how-
ever, soon dawned on Herr Rassmussen that
immense virtues existed in many plants which
were entirely unknown to medical men, and
that it was his duty towards his fellow man
to bring these new discovered Herbal Remedies
within the means of suffering humanity.
Herr Rassmussen at once set to work,
and his entire energy was directed towards
extracting the medical properties from all
kinds of plauts, and putting them up in the
most suitable and practical form, according
to the nature of the complaints which they
had been found a cure for.
Pills and Powders were found to be the
most practical form to administer these new
Herbal Remedies.
It is unnecessary to particularise here the
immense success Herr Rassmussen met with
in his venture twenty years ago ; suffice it to
say that in less than twelve months the
great and wonderful cures brought about by
his Alfaline Herbal Remedies were known
throughout Australia, New Zealand, and many
other parts of the world. Testimonials and
Honors arrived from all parts. Gold Medals
from Paris and other plact s were awarded, and
Herr Rassmussen’s name has been a house-
hold word ever since.— (Sydney Press.)
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Herbal Remedies!
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
are a guaranteed cure for all Nervous Di eases’
Weak Spine, Brain and Ncrv s, Poor Memory
Tired Feeling, Melancholia, Spots before the
Eyes, etc. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
are a permanent cure for Wasting Diseases in
Women, Antemia, and a perfect Blood and
Nerve Tome, Boxes, 6/- & 12/-; courses, 23/6,
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
are a permanent cure for all Chronic Blood
and Skin Diseases, Blotches, Blood
Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, &c.
Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER & KIDNEY PILLS
cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulence,
Heartburn, Wind, Biliousness and Headache.
Boxes, One Shilling.
ALFALINE RHEUMATIC PILLS.
Guaranteed to cure Rheumatism, Gout,
Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted 3/-,
6/-, 12/- & 23/6. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
ALFALINE ASTHMA & COUGH PILLS.
A wondeiful remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis, Influenza and Asthma.
Boxes, posted, 3/-, 6/-, 12/- &; 23/6.
GENERAL REMEDIES.
Alfaline Pile Powders, cure internal and
external Piles, boxes 3/- and 6/- ; Varicocele
Powders, boxes 6/-; Blood Capsules or
Globulus, 6/-; Fat-Reducing Powders, which
removes corpulency, 6/-; Hair Restorer, 6/-;
Corn Cure, 1/-; Ointment, 1/-; Eucalyptus
Oil and Jujubes, boxes 1/-; Flesh-Producing
Powders, 6/-; Worm Tablets, 1/-; Headache
Tablets, 1/-; Electric Belts, Suspenders,
Bandages, etc. Circulars with all particulars
sent Free.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has made special arrangements for attending
personally to his Clients living in the Country, and Letters will receive
most careful attention. , , .
His Remedies will he forwarded to sufferers, packed m plain cover and
unobserved, together with Advice and Directions. Letters should be addressed
to Herr Rassmussen’s full name—HANS PETER RASMUSSEN—and
Registered if containing Money.
Herr Rassmussen’s Addresses:
Head Office: 547 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY,
ALSO AT
MELBOURNE—ISO Bonrke Street
BRISBANE—3O3 Queen Street
ADELAIDE—IS Pnlteney Street
N.S.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington
W.APERTH—4BI Hay Street
KALGOOELIE—Hannan Street
BOULDEE ClTY—Hesse Street
FEEMANTLE—II7 High Street
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimotiials, aud List of Alfaline Remedies.
Recently a Strathfield (Sydney) man was
awakened in the early hours by a terrific banging
at his door, accompanied by much earnest objur-
gation. He poked his head over the balcony for
an explanation, and was invited by a cabby, with
great hostility, to come down and pay his tare. It
transpired that cabby had driven from Sydney
(7 miles), and that his passenger, stating that he
would have to go in and get the money from his wife,
had entered through the aroused one s front gate,
and, evidently (the same old confidence-trick), out
over the back fence. As the maddened cabby
wouldn’t shift, the householder went down and
knocked him out in three rounds, fought on the
windy pavement.


Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER ....
Take
REUTER’S LITTLE
PILLS,
For all LIVER complaints.
Why Women Fade.
How is it that woman does not carry her years
as well as men? For a few years she blooms
like the most beautiful flowers, shedding a
radiance of light wherever she goes; the eye is
freshened by the sight of her, and everything
about her.is touched by bewitching grace. But
her reign is as short as the flowers, and she is
soon left a care-worn, shambling wreck, her
form bowed, her steps dragging, and her face
wrinkled. Complaining of the unhappy existence
and envying the man his vigor, she goes down
to an early grave, believing that her trials are a
heritage from Mother Eve. One woman’s
experience may prove a thousand women’s
salvation. “ About six weeks ago I first used
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Bills. I must say I
found them a most superior medicine,” writes
Mrs. Harrison, Fitzroy,Vic. “My complaint
was peculiar to women—languor, debility and
bilious attacks, which made my days perfectly
wretched. Indeed, there were spells when I
used to wonder in the morning how I could set
about my household duties, but they had to be
done, and I would struggle through the day
when I should have been in bed. You can
imagine by all this how very agreeably sur-
prised I was to get such a very valuable
medicine, especially after the failure of many
others.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pill's
are a perfect blood purifier, and a positive
° ur ® for biliousness, indigestion, constipation,
headaches, .sallow complexion, liver and kidney
troubles, piles, pimples, boils and blotches, and
for female ailments. Sold by chemists and
storekeepers, Is. l|d per bottle, or six bottles
6s. 6d. Sole proprietors, The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd. (Australasian Depot) 58 Pitt-street,
Sydney. Packed in amber bottles, and the full
name blown thereon.
“THREE-STAR” WHISKEY.
Agents : J. BARRE JOHNSTON & CO., Loffcus Street, Sydney
DON’T MISS THIS !
M'P
THE RED BIRD BICYCLE
susz* asr" "” pe, » ™' Tte ” *“■» ««*<*««p*» <«»«
OOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King Street, Sydney,
Hardy’s Tintara Wines
Absolutely Pure;
A
Adelaide:
CURRIE STREET
Fully Matured; 700 Medals, etc.
Melbourne:
COLLINS STREEI
A
Sydney:
GROSVENOR STREET
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Maclaren’s team entered upon its last Aus-
tralian match against S.A. 11, Friday, in typical S.A. late
bummer weather. M'Kenzie, piqued at being passed over
by Australian 11 selectors for better-man Garter, refused
t R la> V The home team was also without the services
of Hack. Robson, Blythe, and Barnes were the English
onlookers. Clem Hill skippered, and won the toss for the
o. A. men, who were at the wickets 3Jt hours, during which
they made 207. Game opened sensationally. Reedman
and Jarvis faced the music ; latter sent three successive
°™ e l * r °mßraund to the boundary, and scored as many
0 j t nn ’ rom whose fourth over Jessop held a catch,
and Jarvis withdrew with 37 to his name. Hill narrowly-
missed being run out, and was then clean bowled by
Braund for 2. Evans shaped well for 30. Olaxton and
Newland saved the day, former totted up 61, and the
pair added 80, leaving the total at 198. Braund and
Gunn whacked _ the wickets, Braund being on un-
changed ; he maintained a line length, and worried bats-
men greatly. Gunn, too, shaped well, and gathered his
bag at less cost than the Somerset crack. Englishmen
McLaren and Hayward played out time and were 20 and
33 respectively with no wickets for 53. Second day’s play
(Saturday) was highly interesting and, mainly through
Tyldesley’s 126, British total reached 318—111 to the
good. McLaren only added 3to his overnight lot before
he played one “on” off Travers. Tyldesley shaped
streakily at first and was twice missed before he got
going. Ultimately Travers accounted for him after an
innings full of chances throughout its 3| hours dura-
tion. Hayward was c. and b. veteran Giffen for 57.
Jessop only made 2 before Travers beat him. Travers
bowled capitally right through, sending down 214 balls
altogether and securing McLaren, Tvldesley, Quaife and
Jessop for 109. Jones came out with only two for 77.
S.A. fielding fell away from splendid to indifferent. Jones
and Braund opened home team’s second innings and
stayed at the wickets till stumps were drawn for 21.
* * * *
Third day of England-S.A. match brought
further agreeable weather. Jarvis and Reedman were
and smissed for 19 and 24 respectively. Hill and Giffen got
together, and latter, shaping crisp and clean, gathered
runs faster than his mate. Giving Hill a start of nine
“ old man ” George passed him in the early twenties, and
ran up to 30 before getting out l.b.w. to Jones. Clem,
dropped free hitting and acted “ careful,” presumably
intent upon getting that 1000 aggregate ; he started the
match with 28 still to make, and was much chagrined at
missing them in his initial effort; the trick was however
done just before lunch, up to which time 26 had been
scored. Kirkwood notched 23, the total then being 171
Later Hill was caught by Hayward off M'Gahey for 61—
his best innings this season. None of the bowlers
troubled him much, and there wasn’t a chance given
from end to end of two hours* brilliant batting all round
the wicket, which baffled Maclaren’s skilful placing of
men badly. Englishmen fielded perfectly, Braund and
Jessop’s work standing out, Hayward got three for 12,
Braund fell off greatly, his count being two for 117.
Gunn and Quaife started compiling the 196 wanted by the
Biitishers to win, a,nd at closo of play 21 of thorn were
on the board with the wickets still up. Up to midday
Tuesday, there were only 2 out for over 100, aud the 96
extra were scored with the loss of 4 more wickets
* * * *
The S. A. team against England contained none
of the experiments so freely urged by local enthusiasts.
It was just the same old crowd, except that Fred Jarvis
was dropped (but he came in again as emergency). Kirk-
wood and Claxton had to have further trial after their
success against Victoria. Newland, chosen as understudy
for M'Kenzie, represented the State several years ago,
and Waters was 12th man in the team against N.S.W.
The many recent century-makers in electorate cricket
will have to wait for next season ; and the much-needed
new bowler is not apparent at all.
* * * *
Remarkable that Englishman Jones has been
caught behind the wicket four times in eight Australian
test-match innings, and in 20 out of 40 innings “ down
under ” last season.
* » • «
Maclaren has stated that, if asked, he
would bring out another team next year. The
question of allowing only twelve months to elapse
i etween the visits of teams from England is one for the
promoters, but in the past it was the too frequent tours
that killed public interest in cricket. This season
interest perceptibly flagged at the end. The question of
control will have to be fought out, for the N.S.W. Cricket
Association is anxious to import the next team, and has
appealed to the Marylebone 0.0. on the subject. Sup-
posing future teams are to prove as financially successful
as the 1901-2 and other recent ones, Maclaren may be
deemed lucky if he has established a monopoly in the
captaincy business.
* * » *
“Adelaide ”: Accept an early tip that, given a
fine summer, the present Australian XI. will have an
awful lot of runs scored against it. Nine men are the
same as in 1899. The changes (besides Carter for Johns)
are Duff (say) for Iredale, Armstrong for Worrall, Hop-
kins for Laver, Saunders for M‘Leod. Allow that the
batting is not weakened (which I, for one, don’t allow),
but surely the bowling is ? And among the nine are Jones
and Howell, then at the top of their form, this season—
would it be unkind to say—complete failures? The
selectors evidently think they will be all right in England,
but it is a big gamble, A similar gamble was taken in
1896 with Trumble himself, then out of form. That one
came off all right, and this one may. But, if it doesn’t,
Trumble, Noble and Saunders will have to graft right on
for 19 weeks on end.
• • * .
Despite the Australian Xl.’s need for a fast
bowler, Jones had no claims for consideration. His bag
this season is 16 for 645—something better than 40 for
each wicket.
* • * »
“ A.M.” : The selection of Jones and Howell as
bowlers for the eleventh Australian Eleven justifies the
prediction made at the beginning of the season that the
“ old brigade ” intended to make the coming tour a family
affair. On no other supposition can their selection be
accounted for. The occasional hitting sensations of
Bil’owel are discounted by the likelihood of him again
straining his leg, while by no stretch of imagination
can Jones be said to have earned his place. Still, as
things are now, the selection committee, which has a
pecuniary interest in the tour, will be the chief loser
should the team fail, and such are the vagaries of the
game that wisdom may be justified of her children and
Jonah Jones come back with the bowling honors.
* * * *
Last round of Sydney first grade cricket, Satur-
day, had favorable weather and good wickets, but, con-
trary to expectations, there was little high scoring.
Redfern only accumulated 124 against Glebe, and Burwood
173 against North Sydney. Most interest centred in the
Leichhardt-Balmain and Pqddington and Sydney and
Waverley matches. Leichhardt-Balmain, Sydney and
Paddington are at the summit together. The day’s
operations ended with little indication of how matters
will result, hence uncertainty till this Saturday. Leich-
hardt-Balmain built 259 for Paddington to go against. In
Paddington’s interests, a representative from Bananaland
bagged four for 41 and fielded brilliantly. Ashdown (for
L.-B.) compiled 93. First half-dozen bats hit double
figures, but following five went down for 7or less. The
task Sydney sets Waverley is 255 for nine wickets.
Waverley will miss Sid Gregory and Carter, while Pad-
dington may find Leichhardt-Balmain’s total too stiff
without the aid of Trumper, Noble and Kelly. Match
Central Cumberland v. Trustees’ team, on Sydney Cricket
Ground, saw last-named in all the afternoon, with five
wickets down for 297 at the finish. T. Hogue contri-
buted 150 not out—the only century in senior cricket
during the afternoon.
• • • *
In answer to “Cricket” (Marrickville), Kelly
has been shaping in N.S. VV. rep. cricket eight years ; he
came from Melbourne, and was a wood-turner.
* » * *
Caust, who made 99 not out against the Eng-
lishmen at Broken Hill, did not bat above his form. Last
season his club average was 86’6 ; this, 14533. And in
view of the fact that the Englishmen went for 171, the
Barrier bowling can't be too soft. Caust is a good
wicketkeeper, too.
* * * *
First acceptances (Monday) for' Doncaster and
Sydney Cup evidenced a big falling-off from the liberal
entry. Of 95 noms. in Doncaster, only 39 will go on,
while but 25 of Sydney Cup’s 64 remain. Plague scare,
as was the case two years ago, may account for some
neighboring State eliminations, but dropping out of
several high-class home nags needs explaining. Mel-
bourne still has good ones going—notably Wakeful (lOst.)
and La Carabine (9.13), but they’ve got thumping loads.
# * * *
Imported Galopin sire Grafton was much in
evidence on Saturday. His high-priced son Strata-Florida
got away with V.A.T. Stakes. Suivre, moving under 9.7,
credited him with Moorefield Two-year-old Handicap,
beating the 1000 guinea Haut Brion filly Carageen, Lady
Mary, Lord Middleton, and others well backed. Strata-
llonda is from Lady Trenton, and was bought at last
yearling sales for 1300 gs. Suivre’s dam is Sequel. Oara-
geen carried 51bs. overweight, but for which the money
would almost certainly have been hers ; she is, however,
worth keeping an eye on for coming Champagne Stakes.
* * * *
Moorefield “Kogarah Stakes” (Saturday) fell
« Saida, by Medallion from Algerine—dam
of Massimssa, Barbarossa, and Numidia. Bred at Tocal
(xN.b.YV.), she looks worth investing on in the future.
* * * ,
Even genuine triers may run inconsistently.
Most touts reckoned that a watch-breaking sfur. trial, at
Randwick, previous Thursday, gave Prince Butler a mort-
gage over Flying Handicap at Moorefield, Saturday. But
he got away poorly, and never threatened danger. In the
Welter Handicap, though humping 291 b. more than in the
.b lying Handicap, he bounded away and won in a canter,
?, n v “i s . ec - slower than the figures created by Purser in
the Flying Handicap. Owner M‘Carthy’s commission
amn t exceed a sov., and yet Mo, in many instances,
wouldn t lay the horse, and, when he did, never gave
better than threes. Mo has been beastly careful about
anything with a chance, lately.
* * • *
Courada, who pipped a hot favorite at Rand-
mck Xmas meet and beat Pegasus in the Stewards’ Mile
at Rosehill scooped the big thing at Moorefield on Satur-
day. Starting at threes, he ran a sound race, cut down
Bonnie Boy at the distance, but narrowly escaped defeat
by Caledonia, who came like a thunderbolt on the out-
side. Courada is a four-year-old gelding by Haut Brion
(imp.) from Plevna (imp.)—bred by Sam Hordern. This
win increases hw load in the Doncaster and Sydney Cud
by 51b Caledonia’s effort was a splendid feat. Weighted
with the crusher of 10.7 he was absolutely last till, turning
up the hill near the finish, he came like a swallow on the
outside, and but for running wide at the turn would have
won the race, and should have won it anyhow. Courada
only won by the tip of his tongue, though he carried 3st.
less than Caledonia.
• • * *
Caledonia, Purser, and Lucknow are all in
Kelso s stable. Just now it would take much fossick-
ing to find anything more promising for the Doncaster
mile than Purser, who beat the much-fancied and
heavily-backed Juindo pointless at Moorefield
*****
The news that Eden George is disposing of his
racehorses will take a load off the minds of any punters
who have “followed the stable,” and committed them-
selves to the hope that the luck would turn E G’s
colors are said to have been beaten 90 times without’one
break in the monotony of failure, and now the sanguine
owner of Kenley is tired. 8
* * * *
. races on Saturday produced a
healthy tote div Winner (Cuba) of St. Patrick’s Day
Handicap brought £4B for every half-sov. speculated:
When will Mo.-ridden N.S.W. and Victoria rise and insist
upon having this institution, beneficial to backers and
the sport alike ?
* * * *
Recent Flemington Autumn Meeting was
very smellful. The inquiries into the accident in the
Newmarket and the jostling in the Australian Cup were
the usual kind of farce. By some people it is alleged the
Newmarket smash was mostly brought about by one
jookev endeavouring, at all hazards, to prevent another
one from winning. Of course, this is only rumor, but
it s a rather persistent rumor. The Cup scandal has more
than one version—m rumor. That the favorite was badly
treated is beyond question ; that more than one jockev
took a hand in the game is also fairly clear ; that nothing
would be done, as usual, was a foregone conclusion. And
then the papers tell us that the stewards are determined
to mete out heavy punishment, etc., in future cases, when
proved, etc. But the future is a time that never arrives
* • * *
Rupert Clarke is said to be open to sell La
Carabine to any foreign purchaser, and probably he will
send the mare to England for sale if he doesn’t get a
satisfactory offer by cable. Australia is certainly not
advancing towards the achievement of a lon«- line of
native-born racehorses. From 1889 up to now five of the
straight-out champion winners and one dead-heater
(Wallace) have been either Carbine himself, or his
progeny and Carbine (born in Maoriland of new-chum
parents) has gone to the land his ancestors came from.
Bobadu was the son of a new-chum sire. Quiver who
dead-heated with Wallace, was a daughter of Trenton
now in England. Parthian has gone toEngland, likewise
Newhaven, the most .Australian-blooded champion of
recent years. One of these days the V.R.O. and A. J.O
may have to discuss the advisability of establishing
valuable w.f.a. races for horses that are Australians of not
less than a second generation—an easy wav of increasing
the local value of the local blood-stock. Why not an in-
fusion of A.N.A. sent iment into Turf politics f
* * * *
“ Surcingle ” : The V.R.C. Calendar for March
shows over 140 disqualifications in force, about half of
them being against horses, and half against men—owners
trainers, and jockeys. Without expecting that the Turf
is to be purged into an absolutely celestial state, I con-
tend that this number is appallingly large. It only applies
to Victoria, and the Calendar mentions that all other
Australian disqualifications hold good. One will not
exaggerate in saying that the N.S.W., Queensland, South
Australian, Westralian, and Tasmanian disqualifications
must bring the number up to 400. Consider again that
certainly not more than 20 per cent, of the rogues are
brought to justice, and what a picture you have of the
Tu ( f Most of the V.R.C. disqualifications are lifers
and the bulk of the rest are for five vears *
*** " •
Latest nag importation is Mr. A. B. Hogue’s
•Murkan thoroughbred Impressario, full brother to
Crescendo, credited with being the best two-year-old of
“ s . tae ,. ln Ca ‘ lf ° rm f- Impressario is bred on stout
Yankee lines, of blood scarce in Australia. He reached
Sydney in prime fettle. Foaled in March, >9B, he is a
beauty to look at, but has never raced. His family tree
blooms thusly : Impressario, by Flambeau from Janet N.
(imp.), by Macgregor from Amelia (imp.), by Lowlander.
Flambeau was a great racehorse, and was by Wildidle
from Flirt (imp.). Wildidle was a noted performer over
four miles, and was by Australian (imp.) from Idlewild, a
famous daughter of Lexington’s from Florine, by Glencoe
(imp.).
• • • a
The three-year-old Nonette, bought as a year-
ling for 105g5., is well up in the list of noted M.L.. nags.
In 19 starts he won 12 times and has never missed getting
a “drum.” His successes embrace Avondale Stakes,
Avondale Oup, Hawkes Bay King Edward Handicap,
Great Northern Guineas, A.R.C. Summer Oup, A.R.C.
Handicap and Wanganui Cup. Stakes garnered total
£4OIO. Q. jock. Martin Ryan ha 3 been up on Nonette in
all his races.
* * * •
Throat trouble settled M.L. imported stallion
Apremont by Mortemer t’other day. He sired Apropos,
Sierra, Antelope, Fair Nell, Galatea, Ravenswing, St.
Cecilia, and Rose and Black.
* * * *
Obit. Mr. T. M. Alcock (cetat 54), prominent
in Sydney sport for years, excepting during the last two
when paralysis rendered him a hopeless invalid. Deceased
was timekeeper at Randwick and elsewhere for close on
a quarter of a century, and one time ’thused a deal over
trotting. T.M.A. had much prominence as backer and
particular friend of Ned Hanlan when the famous Canuck
sculler came here in his prime. Immediate cause of
death was pneumonia.
* * * *
Belmore (Sydney) Proprietary Club (out for
coin, pure and simple) started N.S.W. coursing season
Monday—verging on a couple of months too early, con-
sequently most hounds were backward, and the flint-like
nature of the going put several in hospital, particularly
high-priced Rangatiraand imported Teddington. Former
is probably done, except for stud purposes, and latter
will need looking after to be of much use this season.
There was no management. Hares were mostly famished
looking, incapable of even a spurt, and acted as if only
dumped on the ground a day or two before, consequently
kills were easy and frequent. The judging-tower idea, in
evidence for the first time in these parts, or, as far as
writer can learn, anywhere else, answered admirably.
For once, a day’s coursing ended without the judge being
hooted or abused even in ordinary conversation. This
game will never rank high, in N.S'.W. at any rate, until
the Mo parasite is got rid of; he mostly only
wants to lay the duffer, and, if there’s little to' choose
between them, stands on velvet by asking 2 to 1 or 6 to 4
either, which is why his capital is usually nothing
more than a bag, a pocket-book, and a few tickets, and
also why he invariably “ balances,” as some of him did
Monday, when there’s a pound more to pay out than to
receive.
• * * *
Onetime fore-front sport “ Steve ” Punch died,
in Sydney, Friday last week aged 52. Of the well-known
Sydney aquatic family of that name, he did much
successful sculling as a youngster when Woolloomloo
Bay regattas were the vogue. Later he figured on the
cinder-path and squelched the best of them at 150 yards.
Cummings (then champion) went under to voung Punch
in a struggle on the old Albert Ground (Elizabefh-street,
Redfern) now built upon. The dead man was associated
with “Jack” Deeble, in the halcyon days of N.S.W.
rowing, as proprietor of Beach’s Hotel and afterwards
had the “ Swan with Two Necks,” at that time a favorite
trades-union resort.
* * * .
N.S.W. Swimming Club 500 yards supremacy
(dubbed Flying Squadron Championship) contested Satur-
day, went to East Sydney team by 10 yards from Otters.
Three other combinations—Balmain, Mort’s Dock, and
Newcastle Federal lined up. Craig (for Mort’s Dock) led
over the initial hundred, beating another crack sprinter
(C. Healy) by a yard in 1.3. Lane—moving as if shot from a
catapult—negotiated the journey in l.OJsec., and gave
East Sydney first place, which was never lost subse-
quently. Full time (5.26 2-ssec.) averaged barely over
1.5 1-5 per man. Those wonderfully fast figures probably
could not be equalled by any other club in the world.
Previous best was Balmain’s 5.42. Cavill (for Otters) pub
up a slightly better go than Lane as he was privately
timed to 1.0 1-5.
* * * #
N.S.W. Water-polo supremacy has passed from
Balmain S.O. to Mort’s Dock Club, which owns much of
the first-named body’s whilom strength. Ultimate
winners and East Sydney S.O. contested the final tie,
Saturday. Mort’s Dock did best in the first half, notching
two goals to other side’s nil, bub “Easts” came in the
second clash, and, after a hot battle, scored one goal
before time. Water-polo, as played in Sydney, isn’t
quite the thing ; swimmers here have a lot to
learn about the game, and “ Jack ” Hellings, who
picked up many pointers at ’Ome, and figured in inter-
national matches, should be secured as tutor. M.L.
Poloists, though much below N.S.W. in swimming power,
could give N.S.W, heaps of wrinkles in “ aquatic Rugby,”
which, bar the fact of the sphere being struck by the
hand in lieu of the foot, the pastime really is.
* .* . * *
“ Splash ” : Cavill’s time for the quarter, half,
and mile swimming supremacies of Australasia, at Wanga-
nui (M.L.), are puzzling, and suggest a screw loose some-
where. He did the 440 in 5.37 2-5, going at his top right
through, and got over the half in 11.8, or 6 4-ssec. faster
than twice his world-breaking quarter feat. His mile
world’s “ best ” (21min. 11 2-ssec.) is lmin. 4 3-ssec. better
than twice his half mile, and 58 l-ssec. ahead of four
times his quarter. Probably the Wanganui wabchholders
can explain this marvellous increase of momentum the
further the swimmer travelled, though he begins the half
and the mile much steadier than the quarter.
* * * *
Champion swimmers Geo. Read and Fred Lane,
accompanied by Geo. Farmer, leave for Britain next
Wednesday. This will be Lane’s second trip. Prior to
Wanganui (M.L.) swimming carnival Read’s prospects
looked rosy, but his successive and easv defeats by Dick
Cavill have shaken faith in him. Probably but for the
fact that berths were booked some time back the trip
would have been abandoned. Friends of “ Dick” Cavill are
trying hard to send him. If they succeed, Dick will want
lots of looking after, through his vicious penchant for
confections, gingerbeer, &c. While in Maoriland he
always had a varied assortment,, including peanuts, on
his table. Asa result of taunts that Cavill only beat
Read in the turns, a match was made between the pair
for a straight quarter-mile swim on Wanganui River, and
Cavill finished 15 yards in front.
* * * *
N.S.W. Bowling Association “B” tourney
ended on Saturday, when Petersham, spite of being
whipped in every rink by same team previous week, com-
pletely turned the tables on Waverley, each of whose
fours were defeated, but only by small majorities—total
surplus did not exceed 7. Eight clubs entered the com-
petition, conducted on the same lines as pennant matches.
Up to Saturday week Petersham had not been beaten,
while Waverley—with one licking against it—only had to
sustain another to go out. Figure 7 showed prominently
in the final. Fifteenth head scores gave Waverley 7
majority. When next totals were taken (5 heads later)
Petersham had 7 to the good, and they finished with an
advantage of 7 —72 to 65.
* • • «
M.L. lepper George Smith, t’other day, brought
new Australasian figures (15 l-ssec.) into existence and
equalled the world’s best for the 12Gyds hurdles
American Kraenzlin’s “track” feat (l-ssec. siower than
his “ grass” achievement) was the best known previously.
One-time world’s boss ’rastler, Harry Dunn
explains, re his recent defeat by M.L. champion Scott’
that the ground chosen rendered first-class work impos-
sible ; sawdust would have improved matters, but incom
petent judges refused to allow it. Dunn adds that he’ll
meet Scott and Thornley on the same mat—“ one down
t’other come on,” and feels sure he can account for both
* * » *
Aurelio Herrera (thought good enough to match
with the “terrible” Terry M'Govern a few months ago!
and sometime Australian bruiser, Tim Hegartv shaped
at Bakersfield (Cal., U.S.A.), Jan. 27. Fight described as
among the “ prettiest and cleanest ” seen. Bettino- 10 to
8 on Hegarty, and heaps available. Tim attacked all
through, but caught punishment in the fourth round
which started offers to take “ evens.” Hegarty came
atop again in the eighth, and the eleventh round saw him
fighting “ like a demon.” Both fought viciously ever
afterwards, Tim being most aggressive. The twentieth
round was the limit, and Hegarty got the monev on
points. J
* • • *
A recent decision of the M.L. Court of Appeal
has given the bookmakers a big lift. Many of the race-
courses in the province are lands reserved by Act of Par-
liament as “ public racecourses.” The court has held
that, though the racing clubs who control these courses
can charge for admission, they have no power to discrimi-
nate as to whom they shall allow to enter. Consequently
the raucous voice of Ikey Mo is once more heard on the
lawn. A further Act of Parliament will be required to
suppress the person with the deafening bag and the loud
check suit. New Plymouth course consists partly of a
public reserve and partly of private land. The local
bookies employed a surveyor to peg off the dividing line
which runs halfway down the lawn, and they yell on one
side of that line only.
* * * *
•Ex-Australian 11.4 top-notch©r Tim Murphy
doesn’t thrive in ’Murka. Jan. 27 last, saw him go under
on points after 6 rounds with ex-Murkan welter-weight
champ. Rube Ferns, at Chicago. The fight proved dis-
appointing through wild work. Murphy simply fled
round the ring, with Ferns, full-steam on, after him, and
gave only one effect've punch in 18mins. fight. Murphy
was totally different here ; he’d carry the game all over
the other chap all the time till he had fattened the o.c.
out. Frequent set-backs through cronk decisions and
other causes have apparently affected the Maoiiland
whirlwind’s methods materially.
• * * *
John Keen, champion of the old 60in. bicycle,
just dead, at 52, was the first man to cover a mile in
3min. This was in 1875. His first event (in 1869) was a
half mile, which he won in 2min. 42sec. “ I had to race
the whole of the way, tod ; there was no loafing in those
days,” he remarked, some years after. But. then, even
solid rubber tyres had not come in at that time. Perhaps
the most sensational event in Keen’s career was his match
with the two great amateurs of 1878—Dr.-Cortis (after-
wards of Sydney) and Keith Falconer (brother of S.A. ex-
Governor Kintore). The time, 5.36 2-5 for two miles, r<-
mained a record for years, and, though Keith Falcon r
was declared winner by 3in. (!), Keen always believed that
he should himself have got the verdict.
• • • «
Exit Griffo, once champion “feather” of the
world. He would have been top of the Yankee light-
weight heap but for a transparent “job” verdict, but
will now end his days in a benevolent asylum—if he’s
lucky. Found (Feb. 2) on some vacant land, near Bride-
well prison, Chicago, almost frozen to death; the
physicians feared that amputation of both hands would
be necessary. He had served a sentence at Bridewell,
and probably wandered back looking for food and shelter.
• * ♦ *
“R.” : The bookies and parsons have oombined
to suppress “ Tattersall’s ” sweep and the tote. Let all
free men boycott the collection-plate and the betting-
bag, and thus make things even. The Plate is a lottery.
You put in your 6d. regularly, and you are alleged to
draw your prize or your blank in the next world.


!
....
.. wSsi
'l'ViV.'.v.
a
iEEilsEis
VISITORS to tb«
CORONATION.
Ladles will no doubt like to take with them Photos,
ol those they leave behind. We stock all sizes ox
these
Fashionable Pendants
in 9ct. and ISct. Gold, at Moderate Prices.
The Size shown, in 9ct. Gold
we are selling at-
13/6 & 16/6
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY CO.
187 PITT-ST., SYDNEY
(Next Shadler’s Caf6).
For the GYMNASIUM .
AND THE HOME . . .
FULL STOCKS OF LATEST
Boxing, Tennis, Golf, Baseball Exercises,
Football Requisites
All these goods are the Latest Patterns, and just landed ex Omrah.
Massey-Harris Showrooms—3s7 George-st., Sydney.
In Its Own Class
The quality of out*
goods stands in a class
of its own —the very
highest. Low grade
materials are unknown
in our Factory.
sf
Cakes, Pastry,
Jellies and
= Art =====
Confectionery
Send for a Catalogue.
Special terms to Tennis
Clubs, etc., and for «• - -
quantities.
THE N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO. Ltd., Sydney
The ex-convict hulk, Success, lying in the Thames
(Eng.)« is described as having “ a waxwork group of the
much-dreaded Kelly Gang, who for their crimes were
confined for a lengthy time on board the Success 1 ”
By Special Appointment.
G. H. SMITH and SON,
TROPICAL HELMET
Eat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers,
302 Ceorge-st. Sydney
Sombrero Soft Felt Hats,
All Shades and Sizes.
Soft Felt Hombergs.
In all Sizes and Colors.
with special air-space, Straw Hats. Stetson Hats.
in white drill, <Sec. and Polo Caps, Military and Naval
in all colors in felt. Caps, Livery Hats, Clerical Silk
10/6 and 12/6 Hats, Etc., Made to Order
“ SHARPSHOOTING
For Sport anti War”
df
By W. W. GREENER.
Hits the Mark!
1/- NETT.
If you wish to know how to guard the
Empire—if you are one of those who will
rally round the old flag—read this book.
It teaches all about Rifles and Rifle
Shooting, how to aim and make allowance,
&c., and it contains chapters on Ranges
and Rifle Clubs, with a history of the part
played by the Armed Civilian in the past.
The Best Shilling’s Worth ever Published!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations for 1/- nett.
Of all Booksellers, orC.W. Buckland, Agent
for W. W. Greener, 317 Collins St, MELB.
"pOE the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
E ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,”
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. W. ELLIS.
amusements.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING,
William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Organisation,
headed bv EUGENIE DUGGAN, in
THE NIGHT BIRDS OF LONDON.
Prices —3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager, JAMES HENDY.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geob:;e Tallis. Treas., E. J. Taw.
EVERY EVENING,
THE RUNAWAY 6IRL,
The Jolliest Musical Play Ever Written.
Interpreted by full strength of the
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
Prices as Usual. "®SI Box Plan at Allan’s.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45.
MATINEES EVERY WEDNESDAY at 2 p.m.
THE GREATEST SPECTACLE OF MODERN DAYS,
Messrs. KLAW and ERLANGER’S Stupendous Pro-
duction of General Lew Wallace’s
BEN HUR.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Lessee Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
EMPHATIC SUCCESS. EMPHATIC SUCCESS.
BLAND HOLT’S
POPULAR PREMIER DRAMATIC COMBINATION
of the Truly Great Melodrama,
HEARTS ARE TRUMPS.
POPULAR PRICES—3s,, 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
JOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
GOOD FRIDAY NIGHT,
MARCH 28, 1902,
GRAND SACRED CONCERT,
THE “ ANGELUS” THE
Grand Orchestral Effects.
SELECTIONS from “ST A BAT MATER,” with
Grand Chorus and Grand Organ.
Plan at Nicholson’s Saturday, March 22,1902.
OS' 35., 25., Is. J. EDWARD SYKES.
QOMING BY SPECIAL TRAINS.
FITZGERALD BROS.’
GREATEST AND EMPHATICALLY THE MOST
SUCCESSFUL CIRCUS ORGANISATION
TRAVELLING THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
This Combination, after a Phenomenal Season of over
THREE MONTHS in OUR OWN PERMANENT BUILD-
ING, ST. KILDA-ROAD, MELBOURNE, will open
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, MARCH 22.
Location —THE SAME SPOT.
BENEVOLENT SOCIETY’S GROUNDS,
Opp. REDFERN RAILWAY STATION.
FOR A SHORT SEASON ONLY.
Matinees, Wednesdays, Saturdays, all Holidays.
New Tents, New Animals, New Horses, and the Pick of
Europe in Artists.
A CIRCUS AND MENAGERIE,
WITHOUT A PARALLEL IN’ AUSTRALASIA.
PRICES—4s., 35., 25., and ONE SHILLING. Children
half-price to all parts except the Pit.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, George-street.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
GREAT SUCCESS of the PEERLESS PEGGY PRYDE
MDLLE. LOTTY.
WESTON & YOST.
LUNDGREENS.
CASS ELLI SISTERS.
JAMES OPIE.
GALLANDO.
COLBY & WAY.
PASTOR & RANDALL.
NET BALL PLAYERS.
C. N. BROWN-PARKER.
Prices—2/6, 2/-, 1/6, 1/-, 6d. Pox Plan at Paling’s.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
RICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.m.
DERENDA & BREEN,
The Greatest Comic Jugglers in the World.
CALLAHAN & MACK, WINTON & M'CINTY,
Complete and Enthusiastic Success of the Great
American Novelty,
NET BALL.
Prices—2s. 6d., 25., Is., and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Acting-Manager .. Thos. P. Hudson.
The Present Great Attraction of Melbourne,
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY
can only be given for 6 further performances.
NELL GWYNNE .. .. MISS NELLIE STEWART,
Supported by Mr. George Musgrove’s NEW
ENGLISH DRAMATIC CO.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees & Managers, J. C. Williamson, Lee & Rial
Every Evening, at 8. Matinees, Wednesdays & Saturdays
MAGNIFICENT AND COMPLETE‘SUCCESS
of the
NEW COMPANY of
THE WORLD’S ENTERTAINERS
(POLITE VAUDEVILLE).
PRICES—3s., 25., and Is. Box Plan at Allan & Co.’s
Menzies’ Hotel, The Grand Hotel, and at the theatre
phone, 1359. JOE RROWN, Business Manager
“Piles and Their Cure.”—The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp, entitled “ Piles and the Way to
Cure Them,” without operation, sent free, on
application to the Sydney Depot, 257 George-
street.*
The New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency
Co., Limited, report Wheat: Though considerable
clearances have been effected locally, ex truck and
store, since our last issue, many holders are still or
opinion that by holding they probably will reap some
benefit; this idea has been strengthened by the fact that
in Victoria quotations for grain have risen to 3s. sd. ana
even 3s. 6d. for prime samples. This rise has so far not
been reflected here, and neither the price of wheat nor
flour has responded. Quotations to-day are for prime
grain, 3s. 3d. to 3s. 4d ; chickwheat, 2s. lid. to 3s. per
bushel. Flour : Well-known brands are worth £7 ss. to
£7 15s. in bakers’ parcels.
CANCER.
A Celebrated Ohio Physician’s Marvellous Dis-
covery—How to Cure the Dreaded Cancer in
Your Own Home, Mailed FREE.
This treatment has completely cured hundreds
of cases so desperate that noted Surgeons re-
fused to operate, declaring them fatal and hope-
less.
Mr. Geo. W. Yost, an old and prominent citizen of
Easton, Ills., U.S.A. says: “Your home treatment
cured me without pain in 12 days of a cancer of 20 years
standing.”
James McMullen, a leading G. A. R. and old resident
of Lebanon, Ohio, U. S. A. says : “ I suffered for years
with cancer on the lip. In 10 days your remedy cured
me with hardly a sign or a scar left.”
Mrs. J. Woodrow, of 11 Lyne Road, Crewkerne,
England, says, “Your remedy cured me of cancer of
the breast in 12 days.”
Send name and address if you are a sufferer or
if you know of any one who is, and we will send
all necessary information and hundreds of con-
vincing testimonials absolutely free. Address Dr.
Curry Cancer Cure Co., Box 429 Lebanon, Ohio.
U.S.A. Don’t fail to write to-day.
Remember a letter to America requires
2id postags. Write your name very plain
and be sure to give your -full address so
there can be no mistake in delivery.
A Beautiful Booklet for tfte Asking. 1
... «« Wil
U/UUmuAMU lUUU4I l» «UU/«*AU
——
Any cyclist can obtain a copy of our fine 32-page Booklet, “All About Dunlop Tyres, for
1902, by applying for same. Absolutely the finest and most interesting brochure yet given to
cyclists. Splendidly illustrated with cycling sketches, etc. Send your name and address to—
THE DUNEOP PNEUMATIC TYKE CO. OF AUST. UYD.
108 flinders street, MELBOURNE, and at Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch.
d
For Speed, Comfort and Durability,
Beware of
Imitations
sfd
are
embossed on cover and tube
with this
A
Trade Mark.
N.S.W. Depot—lso Clarence Street, Sydney.
Victor J. Daley, whose masterly verse and
prose have made his name a household word all
over Australasia, is so physically run down that
he has been ordered a sea-voyage and a space of
complete rest. His many friends have therefore
taken the matter in hand, and will on Friday next,
at 4 p.m., at the Hotel Australia, assemble to
consider the best means of giving practical effect
at once to the popular appreciation of Daley the
poet and the wide-spread sympathy with Daley
the man.
Sydney Mayor Hughes’ gorgeous idea of
fitting rubber tyres to the corporation garbage
carts, at a cost of £l6 per cart, was not favored by
the council. In a city which was what a city
should be, where everything went as softly as
Agag before he was killed by Samuel, there would
be some sense in the noiseless cart that glided
through the night; but where the deafening
steam-tram shunts in the small hours of the
morning, and the paper-boy and the la,te dog and
the early rooster are all going strong, it is Night
itself that wants to be shod with india-rubber,
Merely shoeing the humblest of its appurtenances
amounts to very little.
Wanganui is a small town situated in a
hollow in Maoriland. It is a most loyal and
Jingo town. It exports most cohentingenters for
its size. It exports also most lunatics; it is com-
monly alleged that two-thirds of the Wellington
Asylum hail from Wanganui. When the Juke
came to Wanganui the Mayor, on going forward to
shake hands with him, was so overcome with emo-
tion that he fainted, and knocked two councillors
over in his fall. The next day he recovered
sufficiently to face the Presence, and he asked if
his “ Worship ” could not spare a coat or a pair of
trousers for the Wanganui Museum. A necktie is
now hanging in the said Museum with the inscrip-
tion : “Worn by the Duke of York; presented
by his worship the Mayor.”
The latest ruffianly attempt on a young
lady reported from Sydney has some curious
features. The young lady’s statement in the first
instance was that, in a railway train travelling
“between Newton and Eveleigh,” a man attempted
to outrage her. His efforts began as the train left
Newtown Station. To quote the daily-paper
report —
She struggled violently and screamed for assistance-
As the train approached Eveleigh she managed to free
herself, and, pushing the door open, jumped out of the
moving train. She fell heavily on to the platform, and
several persons running to her aid found that she had
been rendered unconscious. .. . Under the impression
that she had fallen out of the train, no delay in its jour-
ney was occasioned, and the man in consequence escaped
unnoticed.
This account neglected altogether the fact that
between Newtown and Eveleigh there is another
station (Macdonaldtown) which the train in ques-
tion (the 7.41 a.m. from Ashfield to Sydney)
stopped at. The next day another account was
given—
The girl now states that the attempt was made between
Macdonaldtown and Eveleigh, and not between Newtown
and the latter station, as at first reported.
Time-table of the 7.41 train reads :
Macdonaldtown 7.58 a.m.
Eveleigh 8.1 a.m.
That is to say there are just three minutes between
the times for leaving the two stations, and as the
time spent at one of the stations has to come out
of that, there remains about two minutes between
stations. It was a wild and furious ruffian who
attempted such a deed in two minutes.
George Martin, aged about 50, haying
been arrested for incendiarism at Fitzroy (Melb.)
the other day, admitted that he had set fire to
two or three houses in order to earn the ins.
reward which he understood was paid to t e
person first giving the alarm. In one ol t e
houses George ignited several people were sleeping
at the time. And after all there is no 10s. reward
in Melbourne. .
At Scarsdale (Ballarat, Yic.) Mrs. Wilkin-
son, aged 70, lately sued old man Wilkinson, aged
75, for maintenance. Defendant told the court he
had turned his wife out because she tola him she
loved another man better than himself. I hey
keep it up to a late hour in Ballarat. Writer, a
native of the undermined city, recalls a ca ie in
which a man of 58 was tried for running away
with a girl of seventeen, and pleaded, with large
tears in his eyes, for gentle treatment because his
father had set him a bad example. His father, it
transpired, had eloped with another man 3 w “ e
only two months previously. Ballarat, too, holds
something like a record at the other extreme,
having once owned a young mother aged between
11 and 12.


f
FOR THE
HA?
m
Under Royal
Patronage.
KOKO for the Hair is a tonic, cleansing, invigorat-
ing and delightfully cooling preparation, causes the
hair to grow luxuriantly, keeps it soft and pliant,
eradicates dandriff, prevents hair from falling and
turning grey, promotes growth, contains no dye or
greasy substance, is the most cleanly of all hair
preparations, and is perfectly harmless. The unique
testimonials received prove it to be undoubtedly
the best dressing for the hair. 1/-, 2/6, and 4/6, of
all Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Australian Depot: Koko-Maricopas Co., Dd.,
14, Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W. «
dfs
* CAUTION. $
See that this registered Trade
df
Genuine Article
Whose excellence has been
publicly tested and approved,
is often basely imitated by
unscrupulous rivals, who,
utterly regardless of reputa-
tation, morality, and law,
endeavour to filch the profit
of its rightful owner, and
take mean advantage of his
labor and expenditure in
bringing a reliable production
into general consumption.
Wolfe’s Schnapps has been
no exception to this fraud.
There have been nearly 100
prosecutions by Government
and agents against importers
and vendors of counterfeits,
and the Supreme Courts of
New South Wales, Victoria,
and Queensland, have all
granted injunctions prohibit-
ing the sale of imitations.
The public, in its own
interest, should help to ex=
terminate these evil and
injurious practices. The
signature of Udolpho Wolfe
is printed on the label of
every genuine bottle of his
Schnapps.
Purchasers having imita-
tians foisted upon them are
requested to forward full
particulars to Udolpho Wolfe
Company, P.O. Box 1149, New
York, or to their Australian
Address, Box 250, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
TMCMCON
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, By Dr.
ALFRED NEALE. Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
and their Treatment.
Posted Is Id.
Publishers : Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY,
W R, ?.«M E o\» nd , RAP,D RUI -EB. BUSINESS MEMORY
FIGURES. ‘ Useful little book. Buies for rapid
calculation are excellent. Many valuable hints.”—S. E
News. “Memory system is ingenious."— S.M. Herald.
if followed out should lead on to fortune.” —S.D. Tele-
® R A p ' r - P°^ al note, Is. J. 0. COX, DARLING ST.,
BALMAIN, SYDNEY.
RUPTURE
Throw away
your Truss-
CURED
without
operation or pain,
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., ENG.,
Cor Russell & Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstrk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. I? sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies,
Trumans NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizks, 9d. & Is. 6d..
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstrk & Truman,
71 Old Kent Load, Loudon, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
THE TWENTIETH CENTURY TREATMENT,
MEDICINE & ELECTRICITY.
PROFESSIONAL CREDENTIALS
In the Chief Consulting Chamber
of the ELECTRO-MEDICAL, and
SURGICAL INSTITUTE are
NINE DIPLOMAS and CER-
TIFICATES of QUALIFICATION
and REGISTRATION, open by
the PHYSICIAN-IN-CHIEF, Dr.
WALLACE, for inspection. Regis-
tered by the MEDICAL BOARDS
of NEW SOUTH WALES, VIC-
TORIA, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
ENGLAND, and AMERICA.
Late Homoeopathic Hospital,
Melbourne, and Medical Staff
British Imperial Army,
sdf
m
■j ■
m
.
<•••*>
TION
A MAGNIFICENT EULOGY.
Testimonial from Sir Dominic
Corrigan, Bart., Physician to the
late Queen, to Dr. Wallace,
Physician-in-Chief of the Insti-
tute:
“I entertain a very high opin-
ion of Dr. Wallace, both person-
ally and in respect to his profes-
sional qualifications.”
“DOMINIC CORRIGAN.”
THE
WEAK §HALL BECOME
STRONG.
[HEALTH
These lines are written to that class of men who
feel they are going down the HILL OP LIFE, whose
MUSCULAR POWER has DEPARTED, whose
RESOLUTION, COURAGE, AMBITION has waned,
whose VITALITY has succumbed to a visitation of
degenerating influences, whose DESIRES FOR SUC-
CESS have been blunted by physical adversities, who
find that when they should be in the PRIME AND
GLORY OF INTELLECTUAL and PHYSICAL
POWER, strong in heart, brain, and being, they are
but A BURLESQUE ON MANHOOD, an ANIMATED
MISERY, opposed to healthy maturity, imbued only
with a VISIONARY VITAL FORCE, strengthless
and purposeless as a child. The effect of. this condi-
tion means the absolute and premature shattering of
THOUSANDS OF MEN ARE IN THIS CONDI-
TION. They have reached the lowest grade of phy-
sical illhealth and impairment, they are HOPELESS,
PURPOSELESS, POWERLESS. In this state there
is scarcely a disturbing influence in certain nervous
systems that may not cause disastrous and fatal
effects. A SUDDEN SHOCK MAY KILL, a GREAT
TROUBLE PERMANENTLY DEMENT THEM.
Overwork, business, and domestic trials, drunken de-
bauches, climatic influences, nervous troubles, affec-
tions of the kidneys, lungs, heart, stomach, or blad-
der, diarrhoea, constipation, dyspepsia, indigestion,
unnatural and Intense emotions, insomnia, enfeebled
constitution, general debility, MAY ALL BE FORE-
RUNNERS OF PREMATURE AND PERMANENT
DECAY, EVEN DEATH.
mm
the health. It is possible for a man to become well and strong, no longer an
ANAEMIC SOMNAMBULIST in the ways of Life.
Willie There’s Life There’s Hope.
While a man lives the spark of vitality smoulders in his system It may
be rapidly dying out. If so, the SPARK WANTS REKINDLING into natural
aooiA
proportions. Nature, crippled and corrupted, re-
quires assisting. THE NEW SYSTEM OF ELEC-
TRO-THERAPEUTICS, in which Electric Applica-
tions given externally, and
a medical course taken in-
ternally, combine their re-
medial effects, is one that
is FAST ATTRACTING the
attention of the faculty
universally. It is found
that it STOPS and OVER-
COMES “WEAKNESS,”
TONES UP THE
NERVES and MUSCU-
—_ LAR and reproductive sys-
tems; it EQUALISES the CIRCULATION,
STRENGTHENS THE BRAIN, and IMPROVES
PERMANENTLY the General Health of the Patient
in an incredibly short space of time. UNDER THIS
NEW ELECTRO-MEDICAL TREATMENT, a man
is AN INVALID TO-DAY, A GIANT IN STRENGTH
TO-MORROW.
LIKE A FLASH IT STRIKES YOU.
WHAT?—ELECTRICITY AND MEDICINE.
The Xew System’s Successes.
VITALITY is the GENERATING POWER in humanity. When it is at its
™ ed in a single night by wearing one of the INSTI-
TUTE S INVIGORATORS around the loins for a
few hours. Worn constantly for Two Months, a
feeble constitution is re-built, reorganised. TO
THE FARTHEST YEARS
OF OLD AGE, strength
will be found In a man’s
hand. He will BE EVERY
INCH A MAN. These
“ELECTRIC INVIGORA-
TORS,’’ the use of which
has CURED THOUSANDS
from premature decay, ill-
health, and protracted phy-
sical impairment, may be
purchased from the SPE- __
CIALISTS at a Reasonable Figure, of from One
Guinea upwards. Unreasonable Fees do not form
prevention to anyone who wishes to become well.
The SPECIALIST'S will Cure the WORST CASE OF
NERVOUS TROUBLE IN LESS THAN TWO
MONTHS.
urn
DISEASES THAT KILL.
People are terrified at the thought of HEART DISEASE, but THOUSANDS
OP MEN SUCCUMB yearly to physical degeneration, whose hearts are perfectly
sound. How many, under such circumstances, have
committed suicide in despair? A few months, per-
haps a few years, of physical torture, and ADD IS
OVER. Surely if anyone is suffering, the correct
policy is to write to the SPECIALISTS at once,
detail the TROUBLE, and GET CURED WITHOUT
DELAY. Do not say, “I AM INCURABLE.” The
Secretarial Chamber of the Institute HOLDS 10,000
TESTIMONIALS PROM PEOPLE CURED OP ALL
CLASSES OP DTSPiA Stn
sdf
SPECIALISTS THAT CURE.
PROMPT, POSITIVE, PROGRESSIVE, are the Principles of the INSTI-
TUTE AND ITS SPECIALISTS. NO CASE IS EVER TURNED AWAY; the
Rich or Poor are treated alike. When a patient writes
describing- his trouble, an IMMEDIATE DIAGNOSIS
IS GIVEN FREE. There is no HUMBUG, NO
DELAY, NO EXTORTIONATE FEES. The
SPECIALISTS GUARANTEE TO CURE, if CURING
is POSSIBLE. Their system of RENOVATION is
unequalled. They place the FIRE OF YOUTH in
tihe JADED FRAME, they RE-KINDLE the LAMP
of LIFE to the feet of the faltering.
THEIR METHODS ARE COMBINED WITH
SECRECY AND SUCCESS.
All Letters upon any subject are TREATED
with PRIVACY. A communication becomes a pro-
fessional secret. The most sensitive person may
rely upon this—tha/t his secret will remain his own.
Secrecy!
THE INSTITUTE’S 510 PAGE PUBLICATION, “CLINICAL EXPERIENCES.”
Fresh from the hands of the Printer, is the INST T -
TUTE’S ANNUAL PUBLICATION. “CLINICAL
EXPERIENCES,” ELEGANTLY BOUND ADMIR-
Y r.', PRINTED ' PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED
WRITTEN, it is a medical volume
all should possess. It can be purchased for ONE
SHILLING sent to the SPECIALISTS, who will
mail it free to all Australia. The Edition of 15.000
copies have been practically ordered, and all ORDERS
are at once noted. The BOOK CONTAINS 500 PAGES
of MEDICAL LITERATURE, 150 FULL-PAGE
PLATE'S and MEDICAL ILLUSTRATIONS, over
Chapters Trea tmg of Several Diseases, with SPE-
taAL ARTICLES upon Poisons and Antidotes, Burns,
Scalds, Drowning, Invalids and their Treat-
ment, Sick Room Advices, Snake Bites, Fevers, etc.
This makes ii invaluable to people in the outlying
portions of Australia. It is a work everyone should
obtain. It is practically given away. It is a hand-
some addition to the Household Literature, and la
In itself A WHOLE LIBRARY OF FACTS.
THE FREEMAN & WALLACE Electro=Medical & Surgical Institute,
ELIZABETH <3c BATHURST STS., SYDNEY.
MEDICINES FORWARDED TO AT.T. DARTS OR
AUSTRALASIA FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director.
RICHARD WALLACE, Phyaician-in-Chief.
A voice from Manly Beach :—
As expected, the day of humiliation and prayer took
pjaoe mostly on the shore. We had cricket, Aunt Sally,
Kiss-m-the-nng, mixed bathing, fishing, music, larrikin’s,
spielers, fighting, blasphemy, and other humiliations.
Ana not one solitary supplicant carried an umbrella 1
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dri\es away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
. Melb. Advocate, March 1, reprints, from
its issue, of May 12, 1900, a paper by J. F. Hogan,
on a visit which he made a number of years ago to
Bombala. Chief points are these :—
Eden s an ordinary township, but on the other side of
Twofold Bay is the ruined city of Boydtown. In Wells’
Gazetteer of the Australian Colonies, published 1848,
twenty pages are given to Boydtown, and less than half a
page to Melbourne. The Illustrated London News,
1846, has a full-page picture of Boydtown, with colossal
public buildings and magnificent streets and squares. It
was founded by Benjamin Boyd. In 1840 he went to
Sydney as managing-director of the Royal Banking Co. of
Australia. Boyd had control of the whole subscribed
capital. He acquired immense areas in Australia, and
became the greatest squatter. Then he organised a fleet
of whaling ships, with headquarters at Twofold Bay. He
was fascinated with the idea of building a splendid city
there. It really looked for a year or two as if
Boydtown was going to leave Melbourne and Sydney in
the lurch. But the British shareholders got tired. Boyd
cleared out for California. The vast Australian proper-
ties were disposed of by the English Court of Chancery.
Boyd left California for Sydney in his yacht, the Wan-
derer. He went ashore at the Solomon Islands, and
appears to have been captured, killed, and eaten. I sur-
veyed the silent walls of the towering, magnificent, but
now empty mansion that Ben Boyd had built and des-
tined for himself, where he thought he would reign as
ruler of all the Southern district, and exercise sway and
influence over a country larger than France. I strolled
over the monster hotel he had erected for the accommo-
dation of the host of visitors that would be attracted by
the. name and fame of Boydtown. I wandered through
the grass-grown streets, by roofless cottages, and past
gigantic warehouses and factories that, even in their
abandonment, told of the phenomenal, if fleeting,
prosperity of the place, and compelled a tribute
of admiration for the luckless adventurer who could
conceive and execute such Titanic schemes. I walked
along the rotting wharves and jetties, once all life
and activity with the loading and discharging of
ships—now without a solitary vessel moored to their
worm-eaten sides. I climbed up the headland, on the
highest point of which there stood a conspicuous white
stone lighthouse that never was a lighthouse, for, after
erecting it at immense cost, Boyd found, to his
anger, that the Government would not let him
exhibit a light from its summit. And I came away from
all.these melancholy survivals of one man’s mad ambition,
unbridled speculation, and evanescent glory, with the
rejection than even in a young country like Australia
there is abun lant material for moralising on the vanity
of human wishes.
Australia, after all, can’t reasonably hope
to trade off much dead meat on the Empire in
S’Africa for her few miserable hundreds of soldiers,
when Ireland, after having supplied thousands of
the very best fighting men, fails to sell her
potatoes to the War Office. A recent Irish meet-
ing carried a protest against:
The purchase of 1250 tons of German potatoes for the use
of our troops in South Africa while the crop in Great
Britain and Ireland this year is a superabundant one of
the finest quality, and is selling at prices quite unre-
munerative to the growers.


WOOL. PRODUCE. GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
ACT A.S SBLtIM G- BROKERS ONLY.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
'(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
will be 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb ... i 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
l under ls - 6d - P er Bala
Perfect System of Weighing. Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sen w.\on
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
AGENTS POE. McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
Wrinkles, Grey Hairs, Blotches, and Skin
Irritation are all promoted by using inferior
Soaps. A fine, white Soap like VINOLTA
is pure, Harmless, Beneficial to the Skin,
and is made specially for the complexion
and nursery by a patent of our own.
- j*V-
Do not confound it with inferior Toilet
Soaps
„ SOLD EVERYWHERE .
VINOLIA CREAM for Itching, Prickly Heat, Sunburn, &c.
VINOLIA POWDER, for Redness, Roughness, Toilet, Nursery.
sd
fsd
The GANZ
Electric Apparatus
are built right.
Let us give you some
evidence of their
superiority.
Portable Mine-Pump driven by Threephase Motor. SOLE AGENTS:
fhe J|ustral Qtis Engineering (Je., [td., South f|)elb
Price 6s.
OH OUR SELECTION.
BY
“Steele Rudd.”
e
ECHO, MELB
0000
X A/\ <4
<vs
We wish to draw special attention to our
42/-
Gents' Sac Suits
Fashionable Sac Suits-of Dark Blue
Serge, or the popular Worsted Stripes,
elegantly made and finished.
Perfect in fit, and fully guaranteed.
Every suit made by the London Tailor-
ing Depot is guaranteed to fit to a
nicety, and keep its shape.
Worn by well dressed business and pro-
fessional men throughout the States.
Thousands of patterns to choose from.
r *>K> =3
Call or write to the.....
London Tailoring
—Depot—
Bourke St., Melb.o!£S'.>
F. S. MEYERS, Manager..........
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS °r oEU6
French’s Acting Edition.
fsd
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalog ue of
Jioolcs Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL *900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
1«0 COMPETITION.
WINES ne Besf °" lv SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
■(<isi iM i\irj)
o^T)
SMELTERS.
% * •
REFINERS
mODXJCERS
OF
fine silver.
nr.
makers Of
s. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD'’
AMO
ILL AW ARRA”
.. Bit AND oi<’. ■
SOFT LEAD.
'P basers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SYS EEP REFINERS ox SILVER LEAD BULLION
Ur ° iS HIGHEST PRICES PAI1) FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to P. S. Moksk, Manager, Tn omening Oompany of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.YV.


f
Pocket Knives make good, useful
Presents, especially when theyare fitted
with Silver or Gold Handles, such as we
illustrate above. All have rings on one
end, so that you can attach to chain.
The small size is suitable for a lady.
Solid Silver, 5/6, 6/6, 8/6. Solid Gold,
14/6, 22/6, 27/6.
sdf
This is an exceptionally handsome
Powder Jar of best English Out Glass,
with charmingly-designed Solid Silver
Top and Mounts. Price, £2 15s.
dfgdfg
We have just opened out the best lot
of Pin and Sweet Trays (in Solid Silver)
you could wish to see. Never have we
seen such pretty designs, combined
with so much finish and weight. The
prices for Pin Trays run 5,6, 6/6, 10/6,
11/6 ; and for Sweet Dishes, 6/6, 10/6,
l3/6.
fs
This Cut-Glass Butter Dish, with
strongly Silver-Plated Stand and Lid,
good for many years of use, only 12/6.
Lots of others, from 10/6 to 21/-.
dfs
4I2CEORGfJj svn»,rv
All Goods sent Free on Receipt of Remittance.
WRITE FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
o
m
This shows quite a novel design of Brooch—two
15c. Gold Bars, with a Diamond in centre, in
which are set i lovely Opals, £2 12s 6d.
df
One of our most popular Brooches is illustrated
here. It is made of 9c. Gold, and has a pretty,
Opal-set Fly in the centre. Strong and Service-
able. £1 5s each.
df
This is a 2-Bar Brooch in 15c. Gold, with two
exquisite Opal Hearts and Opal-set Star in centre.
The price is £2 10s.
re.
The New Bird, Bell and Leaf Brooch, 9c. Gold,
only 11/6.
sd
Bar and Orescent Brooch, in either a combination
of Diamonds and Rubies or Diamonds and
Sapphires. Excellent value at £l2 10s.
ms
This shows the ever-popular Nellie Stewart Bangle. We stock
three sizes, in 9c. and 15c. Gold. The one we illustrate is the large
size. Each is perfectly made, with invisible joint and catch. 9c.
Gold, £2 10s, £3 3s, £4; 15c. Gold, £3 7s 6d, £5, £7.
ini
Real New Zealand Greenstone, mounted with 9c. Gold, as Pendants
for gentlemen’s watch-chains. We make these in two sizes—as
illustrated, 13/6 ; size smaller, 12/6.
f
The Fashionable Bamboo Bracelet, strong, well-made and
finished, and fitted with Safety Chain. 9c. Gold, £2;
15c. Gold, £4.
sdf
The New Wire-effect Solid Silver Belt-Olasps. Strong make, and
quite a change from the old style of Olasp. As above, 15/6. Another,
of equally pretty design, for 14/6.,
sd
We have just 24 of these handy articles,
Teapot Stands, in stock ; so don’t be too
late. They save the table many a scorching
—a thing to be considered and guarded
against. They have pretty Tile Centres and
heavy Plated Mounts:' Price, 10/6, post free.
□
This is a New Pattern of Biscuit Box. It
is made of Solid Nickel Silver, heavily
Plated and good for 30 years’ wear. r l he
glass can be removed for cleaning pur-
poses. Price, £2 10s. Other Glass Biscuit
Barrels from 16/6 to 30/—.
fsd
fs
Jut Glass and Solid Silver Trinket Box.
lakes a tasty Wedding or Birthday
’resent. It is good English Out Glass, not
i scratch here and there. The price is 25/-
I^uWaysP
■ whimin M
RWflfe
This Cabinet-size Solid Silver Photo. Frame
costs but 12/6 ; while the Carte de Visit is
5/-, and the Midget, plain, only 3/-. Each
of these lines are splendid value. If you
are not satisfied when you receive them,
you can have your money back.
GENERAL ELECTRIC
COMPANY.
Capital - - - £5,250,000.
Manufactures the Highest Grade of Electrical Machinery
THEIR NAME IS A GUARANTEE.
Dynamos, Engines and Motors up to 250 H.P. in Stock.
Lighting and Power Plants for Immediate Delivery.
Arc and Incandescent Lamps and Supplies of all kinds.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC GO.,
Electrical Engineers and Contractors,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE AND SYDNEY.


Discovered by Christopher Mudd, F.L.S., FiR.G.S., M.B.Ph.S., London, Botanist to the King of
England during His Majesty’s Indian Tour.
ECZEMAOLEAG
Cures this terrible itching complaint.
Not a grease. Does not stain the linen.
Full directions each jar. Jars, 4/6 ; post, 4/10
Used In the Melbourne Homoeopathic
Hospital with success.
ANTHOS
FOR
THE
HAIR
Not a Grease, purely Botanical.
Written testimony from well-known medical men.
One bottle in daily use lasts about $ months.
“Anthos” prevents Hair falling out, Dandruff,
and Irritation. Bottles, 2/6 ; posted, 3/3.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND
Melbourno : Foy & Gibson and all Chemists.
Sydney: Pattinson & Co. (all branches).
Park & Son, is 6 Pitt Street.,
Depot: M. H. Horwitz, 34 Pitt Street
New Zealand: C. L. Best, Ponsonby, Auckland.
Adelaide: Harris & Kemp, Arcade.
Brisbane: Taylor & Colledge Ltd.
Perth: Foy & Gibson.
Colonial Representative : Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
FOUR YEARS ILL HEALTH
Sleepless, Weary and Depressed.
RELIEF DESPAIRED OF:
But a “Friend in Need.”
The Case of
MRS. SUSAN BASTOCK.
(For the Star.)
Mrs. Susan Bastock, who lives at No. 72
Bay-street, Glebe, Sydney, welcomed the
newspaper man with much politeness, and
on the latter announcing that his visit was
paid with the object of eliciting the facts
relating to that lady’s critical illness and her
extraordinary recovery therefrom through
the administration of Clements Tonic, he
was soon seated in the front parlor, where
Mrs. Bastock readily assented to supply him
with every detail connected with her case.
“To look at me now you would hardly
think that I am the mother of a family of
thirteen children, and considering the great
deal of suffering which I have gone through
I ought to be—and indeed I am—very
thankful for' my present good state of
health. The great physical strain of rearing
such a large family must have weakened my
system terribly, for it ultimately resulted in
my having a premature confinement, which
culminated in inflammation of the bowels.
It took a long time before I could get about
again, and for four years afterwards I never
possessed good health; and at the expiration
of that time I was visited with a sickness of
a more serious kind than my previous one.
It. is considered an extremely interesting and
critical period of a woman’s existence, and
one which is fraught with important con-
sequences ; for, according as it is passed
with safety or otherwise will her future
health be. It was at the period when my
change of life took place, and never shall I be
able to describe the pain which I had to en-
dure. Women usually regard the approach of
the change of life with a good deal of anxiety
and fear, for at that time certain diseases
which may have lain dormant, as it were,
in the system, are likely to make their
appearance, and I was in dread of any extra
derangement, because my constitution was
not strong enough to withstand it. lam
Slad to say that I was not attacked by any
isease during my illness, but I had quite
enough to bear as it was, without any other
disorders taking place.”
‘ “ Were your sufferings very acute, Mrs.
Bastock ? ”
•' “They were extremely so. The pains
were so bad that I could not bear anyone
to touch me. When anyone approached
very close to me I would give a spasmodic
flinch as though anticipating their touch.
Sleepless nights I passed without number,
and I was always weary and depressed. I
think there are very few women who have
gone through the same ordeal and have ex-
perienced such dreadful headaches as mine
were. My eyesight became affected, and I
could not see to read ; in fact, I did not have
much inclination for reading. I was too
much worried with my deplorable condition
to take any interest in books or papers.
Frequently, hot flushing of the face would
take place, and then I would bo conscious of
a feeling that can only be described as ner-
vous irritation. It was quite a common
thing for me to faint, and I would lie and
think of all the evils that may occur if I did
not soon get better. My digestive organs
were quite upset, for although I lay for
fully a fortnight without touching anything
in the way of food excepting a little toast
and water, and even that light nourishment
was too much for my stomach to digest. I
was never free from pain of some sort, and
in a state of desperation I would sometimes
take a little brandy or whisky in the hope of
acquiring stimulants only aggra-
vated my suffering, and I always felt worse
after them, yi had got awfully thin, and my
,faco looked as though there was not a drop
of blood left in me. The intense mental
depression experienced during my sickness
was sometimes more than I like to think of
even now.”
“What did your doctor think of your
case ? ”
“I had three doctors, and I am sure they
all despaired of my ever pulling through it.
But they were not the only ones who thought
so. One day a lady friend, who had just
returned from the funeral of her sister, said
to me : ‘ Ah, old girl, you will be the next I
shall have to follow.’ It is not very en-
couraging to be spoken to like that when a
person feels half-dead. My medical advisers
were very attentive, I must say ; but their
medicines all failed to have a beneficial effect
upon me. Goodness knows how much I had
taken, but I still remained in the same sorry
plight. So low did I sink that I believed I
was drawing near the grave. My husband’s
belief in the restorative and curative qualities
of Clements Tonic had so often been drummed
in my ears that at last I consented to see
what it was like. I had lost faith in all
medicines, and when my husband brought
me a bottle of Clements Tonic I succeeded
in livening myself up with hope again, for I
slowly, but surely, began to mend under its
remarkable influence. The bodily pains
| were quickly under control, my dreadful
headaches were soon completely cured, and'
the newly-found remedy gave me a very
healthy appetite. I continued taking Cle-
ments Tonic regularly, as I was convinced
it was doing me a lot of good. My blood
was once again running through my veins
with increased vitality, and I could always
depend upon having a good night’s sleep.
With the departure of my severe headaches
f could sit down and enjoy a read, my
eyesight being completely repaired. The
feelings of depression departed with the
advent of new life, and as the time passed
on it was soon my pleasant privilege to
resume my customary duties. The doctors
were greatly astonished at my rapid recovery,
and so were all my friends. They could see
by the way I had brightened up, and the
way I was putting on flesh, that Clements
Tonic was making a new woman of me. I
am nearly as active now as when I was a
young woman, and I am thoroughly healthy
in every respect. My children are always
given a dose of Clements Tonic whenever
they have anything the matter with them,
and I am under such an obligation to that
remedy for my new lease of life that I never
neglect to recommend it to my friends.”
“We will give publicity to your state-
ments with your permission.”
“ I hope you will do so, as others may oe
cured in the same way.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Susan Bastock, of 72 Bay-street, Glebe, Sydney,
in the Colony of New South Wales, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of four folios and con-
secutively numbered from one to four, and that it
contains and is a true and faithful account of ray
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains
my full permission to publish in any way my state-
ments—which I give voluntarily, without receiving
any payment; and I make this solemn declaration
conscientiously believing the same to be true, and
by virtue of the provisions of an Act made and passed
in the ninth year of the reign of her present Majesty,
intituled “An Act for the more effectual abolition of
Oaths and Affirmations taken and made in the various
Departments of the Government of New South Wales,
and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof, and
for the suppression of voluntary and Extra-judicial
Oaths and Affidavits."
Declared at Glebe, this 27th
thousand nine hundred, before me,
day of July, one
THOMAS LAW. ,T.P.
Please mention
df
sf
sd
A BEAUTIFUL SOUQ QUID RING SET WITH A GENUINE GURNET NO MONEY WANTED
or au"a«T™“ 0 t ’lT t FU.T ,lr y ( “TTh TTY 4 rm “ P“okai«.
» fiio mitili(3iminedi(*L« y, «s we ere »at.isfl«d that iS»iff r, S"l elßt ® <Jle h*«d|
is to tltdf friends we have wS t^Tmo»££ eladly
SUPPLY 00., 38 Pltt 8 ,„ RA
PHense menii'aa idhi's-. paper- when ordering-.
Good Tailoring-
SUMMER
WORSTEDS,
TWEEDS,
Jrt.Cjr*iEsBst,
&c. f &c.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post tree.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Mercers,
73 AND 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
fsd
tfi 1
IS
Given
away.
This Month,
to advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
2/6
The Bunch,
post free.
3 Black or Cream
Tips with Ospreys.
Write To-day. Send Postal Notes.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
,Comer Bourke 3s Swanston sts., Melbourne
RAMEY’S
fs
DEDICATOR.
FOR THE TREATMENT OF
Catarrh, Hay Fever,
Bronchitis, Influenza,
Catarrhal Deafness, &c.
/tfedicaior, with complete treat-
ment, only 10s. post free.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
229. 231 Collins St. Melb.
Too Stout
I wag for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 12ib., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
p£ R X CORO's
.686€W c6 of f £•
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
> extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St..
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales —
Australian Drug Co., Ltd., O’Connell St., Sydney. All
Chemists, or Box 165, C.P.O.
CEB
DEAF
df
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
iCompletely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
Jhow long standing. Are the same
r to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. 0
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
("NLORODYNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c-> bear 3 on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—■
Dr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS <4
Sept. 28, 1895, says!
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne, I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation."
"I YEAR SIR,' —I have bee?} cured of Weakness and De
1 ’ bility by a simple and inexpensive r ;nedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
dp this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
E, PARKHURST, Pitt-street, Sydney,
BLAIR’S
GOUT h RHEUMATIC
PIXaliS.
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
Don’t shout”
■' I hear you. 1 can hear now
as well as anybody.
'■"How?’ Oh some-
thing new— The Wilson.
Common-sense Ear-
Drum. I’ve a pair in my
ears now. you can't see them
they're invisible. 1 wouldn't!
know I bad them in myself,
only that I hear all right."
The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a; substitute for the
working parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other de-
sdf
sd
viee Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
J. CM AI WjPS, 229-231 Cot Hos SU Help.]
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
f
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English
American and made to order
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, dec.
DENYER BROS.. Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORCE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
M
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 30/-
Head and Face Steamer, 47-
Can be forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne
lIX
A Wonderful power is placed at your disposal in Hypnotism
—the power to control others—to relieve disease—to make
friends—to make money —and gratify your ambition. You may
become a commanding master of humanity. In fact, there is
'so much that is wonderful to tell you about it that I have
written a book for that purpose.
By a knowledge of Hypnotism, bad
habits, nervous diseases, bad disposi-
tions, sleeplessness and other afflictions
may be cured—often in a single treat-
ment. Backward or ungovernable
children show marvellous improve-
ment under hypnotic treatment at the
hands of their parents or others.
I have taught thousands of hypno-
tists in America. Hundreds of de-
lighted students in Australia already.
I reach them through my book. The
system is very simple. There is no
reason why you should not become
as good a Hypnotist as I am.
Satisfaction guaranteed.
Send address in full. You will then
receive the “ KEY TO HYPNOTISM."
posted in a plain cover. Absolutely
*p
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
THE GREATEST HYPNOTIST OF THE CENTURY,
89 Pitt .Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and Infallible Remedy,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injection*. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory or
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C.S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE,
NASAL POLYPUS"
and Similar Growths In the Nasal
and Post-Nasal Passages „ , ,
CURED WITHOUT OPERATION.
C3F” Hundreds of eases successfully treated. Write for
particulars to , ,
NEWHAM WATERWORTH,
Edward-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
ASTHMACURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Fop Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault's Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the cncst,
QSIHAULT dt CO., Paris. Sold by all CbenuaU.


For the first time for many years, Aus-
tralia is without a K.O.M.G. in a premierial seat—
Mr. See, Mr. Peaoook, Mr. Philp, Mr. Jenkins,
Mr. Leake, Mr. Lewis, and Mr. Barton. Two
years ago, the orowd consisted of four knights and
a O.M.G. The Ooronation is expeoted to change
matters.
.Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassinussen’s advt. on page
23 a of this issue *
Half the time it happens in this cross-
grained world that a paper has just got a man
comfortably dead and written a nice obituary
about him, when it receives a letter like this:
Dear Bulletin. — l should like to ask Mr. Ernest Favenc
how and when he heard of Frank Hann’s death ; as he
was very much alive on the 9th inst., and he and my
brother John had several camels and were to start on that
date from Bullong on a prospecting expedition. Mr.
Favenc is right in speaking of Frank Hann being one of
the best explorers in Australia. He was the first to take
cattle from the Gulf of Carpentaria to Port Darwin, which
took place in the ’7o’s, if not before. He started from
Lawn Hill with 200 head of fat stags, &c.; in case he
could not get through the cattle would not be a great
loss. But he got through. He had only blacks and one
white boy 14 years old. It opened up a grand market for
several years for the Gulf fats. He was then a rich man,
being principal owner of Lawn Hill, with over 30,000
head of cattle ; but the tick and red water got into the
herd and ruined him. Had the Government engaged him
to do what he has done, his name would have been in
every paper in Australia as the best explorer this country
ever had ; and I think that Government should sub-
stantially acknowledge his services in the matter.—
Yours, &c., Jas. C. Hann.
sdf
• I do not ask 70a to spend
money to t€at whether my
remedy does or does mart cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Yitus'
dance, etc. All I ask of yon
is to SEND for a FREE
Battle and to try it I abide
by the resnit. A safe remedy—
approved by the HeriWir
Frnlession.
H.6.R(!T)T, as,Endslet?Ki
Gardens, London, K-"S7,
CAPILLA
HAIR
TONIC
The Hair Restorer of the Century.
All Chemists and Storekeepers, 2/6 per bottle, or by post
from W. RICHARDS, Proprietor, 168 Pitt-Bt., Sydney
N.8.W., 3/2. Obtainable in Melbourne at G. Swift’s,
Chemist, Oollins-st. ; Victorian price, 3/-. Full Course
17/2 ; Inter-State, 19/2.
TWO POINTS OF MUCH IMPORTANCE.
JUlenbimjs Food
The great success attending the use of the “Allenburys” Milk Foods is in a great measure
due to the two following important facts :
(i) Their similarity in composition to human milk ; the constituents being in (2) The readiness with which they can De digested and assimilated by
the same relative proportions. the infant,both foods being as easy of assimilation as maternal milk.
Mixed with water according to the directions a humanized milk is provided. and much more so than ordinary modified or diluted cow’s milk.
The “ Allenburys” Foods are especially valuable in hot climates. They are in the months
Pamphlet on “INFANT FEEDING ” (48 pages) free, |ygg|_K FOOD No 2. (
From three to six months.
form of powder and keep perfectly.
from 495, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Allen & Hanburys, Ltd., fPlougfi Qourt, Lombard St., Jsondon. M *roTfs° m? n ?h?
lie’s
THE FA.MIOTJS PIEMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OE ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken, this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying ix - ritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs" have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain. _
BEIWA.RE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr, W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave mytoed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks. —Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR. ,
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Mouths Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
Was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sore.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAHAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis 1 Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vic.
“ Mr. Seattle.
“Dear Sir, —I am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil- 1
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the-
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-,;
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to iny mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully, A
“ JOHN S. MORTIMER.” !
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite.cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time-it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus —as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my soil,
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and aui,<
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.’
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows :—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
* have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Tears’ Agony,
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“ Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. —I remain, Sir,
.yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker's Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
i Wales.”
A Five Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I am more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle oured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in ray case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Oharleville,
Queensland, writes :—“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’j
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
j Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
| am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma."
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist,. Geelong, Victoria.
b««nch wot- ; jf 0 g First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
“‘Benger’s Food*
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
Benger’s Food
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. and Digestible.
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, i&c., Everywhere. ______
Extracts from. Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
to find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Benger’s
Food’ everywhere.”
“ If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


Pleasant and Refreshing to the Taste
and
Truly Beneficial in Effect,
m
r
zss£
m
1)
i7*
©
is above all things a natural remedy; that is, it assists nature to
perform the functions essential to health in an absolutely natural
way, without any injurious or weakening effects. Its perfect
freedom from every objectionable quality and substance makes
it the ideal laxative. California Syrup of Figs,
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE,
acts gently and painlessly upon the Liver, Stomach and Kidneys,
thoroughly cleansing the system, promoting healthful regularity,
and leaving the organs permanently strengthened. It is the best
and most pleasant remedy for Constipation, Sluggish Liver,
Biliousness, Indigestion, Depression, Feverishness, Loss
of Appetite, Headache, and all kindred complaints, speedily
restoring health, appetite, energy and good spirits.
Ask for CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS, and look for the
Name and Trade Mark of the
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP COMPANY,
31 & 32 SNOW HILL, LONDON, ENGLAND.
Australian Branch—7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Of ail leading Chemists,
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL!
X
All Chemists.
sd
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
*
Washington H. Soul & 00.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
%
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
«
1
\w\
*
i
>
&
V
«' iIN
- &- *-
and so does
V JP§ARS
Ode to a Cremation Urn.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Thou placidest container of the dust
That was a Being ! Unchanged thro’ the years
While man feels hopes and fears—
Unsullied and untarnished, free from rust,
Tho’ thy curved sides are bathed with human
tears!
Thou form of changeless beauty ! far more firm
Than was the Wonder, whose last ashes lie
Still in thy sides: the living charms must die,
But thou surviv’st unchanged their longest term ;
Their looks decay ere half their day is past
Thou guard’st their ashes closely at the last.
The teeming brain, that scorned the body’s thrall,
The loving heart, for its weak house too strong,
The aspiring spirit, pent on earth too long,
Tlrou hold’st the body that contained them all;
That body, purged of dross by heavenly fire,
No more knows fruitless hope or blank desire.
And we ; shall we regret
The pleasures that are past ?
Their memory lives yet, —
They were too good to last:
Gladness be ours that such joys might be known,
Not sorrow that they’re flown ;
Gladness be ours that we can not forget.
Immortal ! Keeper of the mortal part
Of one whose spirit never shall know death;
The dust of earth within thee slumbereth
No more flushed red with blood of a pure heart!
Keen with high aspiration was that form }
Now ’tis impassive, lustreless and cold ;
Thy little bound that restless dust can hold,
Within whose bounds high hopes surged live and
warm.
No looks unloving rest on thee, fair urn ;
No careless passer wonders who lies there !
No cynic at thy epitaph shall turn
And laugh at who displays too fond a care 1
Impassive sepulchre! untouched by frost,
Nor sodden with the rains, nor scorched by
sun, —
Undimmed thou standest till our day is done,
Thy charge unscattered, nor thy beauty lost!
Thus in earth’s frailties Man his strength dis-
plays,
Moulding a shape that far outlasts his days;
And mortal man invents
Immortal monuments
And in his works will still remembered be;
Himself must pass away,—
To thee he gives his clay,
And sets thy beauty ’gainst Eternity !
M.L.
AHAU.
Blue-Gums.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Thebe are blue-gums in Maoriland, just as there
are in Johannesburg, and the Maorilander is fond
of them. He considers they grow better here
than in Australia. Perhaps they do. The Maori-
lander is so.level-headed that I never venture to
argue with him. Personally, I think they are fine
trees. But they are not blue-gums.
There was a big gum-tree growing just outside
my bedroom window when I was a youngster in
Queensland. That was a real blue-gum—a
veritable patriarch. And, night and day it sang
its never ceasing song—sometimes a lullaby ;
sometimes it roared in concert with the wind a
grand storm-song, wilder and fiercer than any
storm-song played on an organ. And whenever I
listen I can hear it yet—Australia’s song. The
Maoriland gum sings quite differently. It may
sing as sweetly, but I hate its music. To me it
seems to be trying to be what it never can be.
The gum-tree reflects Australia’s every mood.
On hot, still days how its leaves droop. They are
almost, almost still. There is always a gentle
whisper high up in the top boughs. Then at
morning, when the shape of its giant limbs stands
out mistily in the dawn, and the birds begin to
awaken, how eerily the leaves rustle, as though
they had been afraid of the long night, yet dared
not speak till the dawn made them feel braver !
Gradually the tree is outlined more clearly in the
growing light till the leaves on the very top catch
the first red glint of sunshine. Then comes the
morning song of the gums, and the world is
awake. And at night as the sun sinks over the
western range, how the gums seem to call “ Come
back, come back." They do not like the night.
The Maoriland gum-tree is full of sap, and its
leaves are a rich dark green. It has a rollicking
sort of swagger in the fair wind, but it cannot
catch that graceful, negligent swing of the Aus-
tralian gum. Perhaps it is too well-fed. It looks
it. And the boughs grow lower on the trunk,
whereas the real gum is bare of boughs for a great
part of its height. Some day the Maoriland gum
will be part of Maoriland, and it will sing its song
accordjtfigly. It will be a thunderous, crashing
song, nut never will it equal the reckless, hot-
hearted music of its Australian forefathers. For
it is not a real gum.
In fancy I am standing on the beach near
Nerang Creek. The breakers are booming on
Stradbroke Island just over the bay, and the bay
is glittering and blazing in the sunset. On a
sand bank almost awash some pelicans are standing
solemnly looking at nothing. And behind me are
miles and miles of gums—tall, sun-dried gums. The
glory of the sunset makes them stand out like a
forest limned in fire. And the sad, sad song they
chant; a lament, a good-bye. Then the sun sinks,
the pelicans move off, and the forest sleeps, lulled
by the breakers’ distant drone. But every now
and then a whisper will pass from tree to tree.
Theu for another space they are still. So ghostly
they look, and yet so full of life and spirit. The
blue gum is, without doubt, Australia. I would give
much to-day to see a real gum-tree. I lie Maoriland
specimen is a fine tree, but it never can be a blue-
gum. Of course, it may be only my fancy. The
Maorilander is so matter-of-fact. And he says his
gum-tree knocks spots off the Australian tree.
Oh Australia, Australia ! hot, reckless and
cruel, yet passionate and loving, I shall never for-
get the song of the blue-gum —your song.
M.L.
QUILP N.
A Dream.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I met Milanie on the Island of the Outer Sea.
She had dark hair, which I stroked ; it was fas-
tened with a tortoiseshell comb. She had a
tender-shaped waist, round which she let me put
my arm. Ido not remember her face.
The time was bliss. There was bush on the
island, and we climbed up into it and sat down
side by side. The fairy flowers of the bush grew
all round Milanie. She curled up and rested in
my arm. I told her many things. The sea was
breaking beneath us, and the sand was being
swallowed up in it, till only the rocks remained.
We rose and went to the open down-land. The
tussock was over the hill, and we sat on a clump.
We lay back and watched the sky, and listened to
the lark in the wind, the wind in the tussock,
and the waves on the beach. The tussock was
brown and green, and in it grew a little pale-blue
flower. Grass was at its foot.
At this time the Devil came to the island.
The sea was of many shades of blue in the
spring morning, and there was sparkling white
across it all along the sun-path. He appeared, a
speck of black under the sun, and came nearer.
He drew a cloud after him across the sky, and the
breadth of the sea tossed black behind him.
Before him it was blue. The rain came after the
black, and the sun behind that again, but the rain
had not yet rounded the edge of the world. When
he drew near I heard the thunder. He came to
the beach, and I saw the blight he brought and
left on what he touched. Milanie did not see the
blight. Two little girls came from him to Milanie.
She went to the little girls, and they brought her
to him. I went back to Hell. Just my luck.
AWAKIMO.
A Veteran Detective.
SUPT. CAMPHIN’S BIG EXPLOIT.
Superintendent Camphin, just retired from
N.S.W. Detective Force, has been a Catcher of
Criminals since 1858, and had thus seen nearly
half-a-century of service. During that time his
hand was put on the shoulder of many a thief and
murderer—but of no criminals more notorious
than Lester and Nicholls, the cold-hearted
scoundrels who used to entice laboring men up the
Parramatta River and murder them in the hope
of getting a few shillings by the sale of their
swags.
As Mr. Camphin tells the story “ One morn-
ing I was outside Chinnery’s shop in Hunter-st.
‘ Good-morning, Mr. Camphin ! ’ I knew the
voice. ‘Ah! ’ I said ; ‘ you’re out again, Lester!’
‘Yes, I came out this morning.’ I was about to
ask him what he intended doing, when I saw on
the opposite side of the road a man named
Nicholls. I said :‘ I see you’re with the fellow
over the way.’ ‘Yes; he was sentenced to two
years on the same day I was. We went in toge-
ther, and we’ve come out together.’ It was I who
had arrested Lester, two years before, for forgery.
Lester was rather a decent young fellow, a mid-
shipman who had run away from his ship.
Nicholls, too, had had something to do with
the sea. I said to Lester : ‘ Take my advice ;
leave that fellow who’s over the way. If you
don’t you’ll get into trouble.’ He promised to
follow my advice. Some time after, turning a
corner, I propped them both. I said to Lester,
‘I see you’re still with this fellow.’ ‘Yes, we
are living together on the Rocks.’ ‘ Lester, drop
him, or you’ll be bound to get into trouble.’
“ One morning, news came in from the Parra-
matta River that the body of a man had been
found, floating upright, his body blown up with
gas like a balloon, his hair awash with the water,
a 1201 b. stone tied to his feet. Elliott said, ‘ That
knot’s been tied by a seaman.’ I said, ‘ I know
the men.’
“ We showed the photos, of Nicholls and Lester
to people who had been buying clothes, &c. They
said: ‘Yes, we bought these things from them.’
They were the men.
“We waited in the auction-room opposite the
old Victoria Theatre. In came Nicholls, a smart
little fellow with a very jaunty manner, swinging
a stick. We asked him where he got the property
that he had been disposing of in the auction-room.
He put on the bounce—‘lndeed ! a gentleman
gave it to me.’ At Nicholls’ house we found the
remaining part of the rope that had been used in
tying the stone to Walker’s feet. And later we
ascertained that after murdering Bridgers,
Nicholls had gone home and beaten his wife.”
Mr. Camphin opened a big volume and turned
to a newspaper cutting—
Nicholls’ confession “My life from the age of 10
years has been one continual course of sin, and God, even
during this period, has appealed to me by granting me
blessings I did not deserve. The first in a virtuous and
faithful wife, as if by joining good to evil I might be saved
by example ; again by giving me two beautiful children.”
“ Lester came walking out of a shop in the Hay-
market : ‘ Hullo, Mr. Camphin ! ’ I accepted his
proffered hand, and did not let go of it. Being a
young fellow, he wanted to tell me all about it.
But I did not lead him, and I listened as little as
possible. When I got him in the watch-house, I
found he was wearing the clothes of the murdered
men. Lester's story was this :
I went ashore at Balmain, and got a ginger-beer bottle
full of rum. We persuaded Walker, who was a teetotaller,
to take a good drink. The rum stupefied him. He lay
down in the foresheets of the boat and fell asleep. It was
my turn to murder ; Nicholls had murdered the first. I
shook with nervousness. Nichols said “Goon ! ” I took
hold of the neddy but I couldn’t hit him, and when I did
hit him I couldn’t hit him hard like Nicholls had hit the
other one. I tried, and tried, and I couldn’t hit him hard
enough. But I hit him six or seven times, and we
thought he was gone. We tied the stone to his feet and
threw him over. But the water revived him. He flung
out his hand, he got the boat’s side. Then he gripped
with the other hand. He cried out, “ Oh, spare my life !
for the sake of my poor mother!” “Hit him again,"
said Nicholls, “ finish him ! ” I couldn’t. “ Oh, give it
to me! ” said Nicholls, “ I’ll send the fellow pearl-
fishin’.” Oh !—h !—h !—he went straight down.
The Argus on two Federal members, who
both graduated in the pulpit :
The really irritating thing about Mr. Joseph Cook is his
monotonous pulpit delivery. If he has not graduated as
a local preacher, then years of suffering hy the writer
under a variety of local brethren have been endured in
vain. He cannot recognise the species when he hears it.
No one ever did talk quite naturally in the pulpit, and
scarcely anyone who has graduated there ever speaks
quite naturally in public again. Mr. Ronald’s delivery
can he compared to nothing else than a wire fence. So
many ordered steps of monotone, and then a post of
emphasis, with here and there a strainer for breathing-
time ; and almost always the emphasis falls on the unim-
portant word. “ Oh, Mr. Chairman, lam fully persuaded
that this committee will do a great injustice if it should
pass the amendment of the hon. member, because great
injury must result to the many interests which must
necessarily be affected by ’’—and so on till a strainer is
reached. When this style is accompanied by a strong
Scotch accent, there are only two resources for a suscep-
tible chairman—madness or sleep.


Chief-Justice Way (S.A.) told a jury the
other day that in weighing the evidence of a cer-
tain constable in favor of a prisoner, they must
remember that both were Irishmen—the words
used were _“ of the same nationality.” Surely it
is not a principle of justice that no countryman of
an accused shall be accepted as an unprejudiced
witness unless his evidence is unfavorable.
Advertisements from the City Front
News, San Francisco :
Miss Amelia Woltz, since all her fishing friends have
gone to Alaska, has been shipwrecked, gone to smash,
been on the roGks, had her starboard quarter damaged,
?u e xT ln docks, and, after sundry repairs, has got
the New Cascades re-caulked, painted, decks varnished.
Got new dancers, with a new stock of wines and liquors,
and is now wide open to receive her numerous friends at
her New Cascades, 513 Pacific-street.
And—
Miss Kate Edington waxes her floor, so that the dancers
can slide through life to the strains of the “ Blue
Danube, at 9011 Kearn.v-street, conducted by the cele-
brated Chilean belle, Donna Kate Edington, who has all
lady waitresses to supply you with the best liquids, wines,
beer, and cigars. Miss Kate is a single lady with plenty
of the good things of this life, and all she needs to make
h ,er bapi’y is a good husband, who can appreciate her
ability to do business and please her patrons. She is a
brunette and weighs 162 pounds.
FACE TO FACE WITH FACTS
Most all the Aches of Kidney Ills start with
FACTS.
A lame back is a bad back.
A iveak back is a bad back.
An aching back is a bad back.
Bad Backs come from sick
kidneys.
Sick kidneys cause backache.
Backache is the first step.
The first ache of kidney ills.
TJrinary troubles come next.
Disturb your night's rest.
Annoy you all day.
Dangerous Diabetes sets in.
Then Bright's Disease.
The end is near then.
1 Bad Back.
Every Case of Back-
ache, Diabetes, or
any Kidney ills can*
be Cured by
MORE FACTS .
Don’t pay to experiment.
Kidney trouble is too serious.
Delays are dangerous.
Experiment means delay.
Take a remedy that’s endorsed.
But get good endorsement.
A stranger’s word isn’t sufficient.
Hard to prove testimonials from a
distance.
Take the word of people you know.
Of friends and neighbors.
Easy to prove such evidence.
Ask them about it.
Local testimony is the best.
DOAN’S
Backache Sidney Pills
No other Kidney Remedy has ever received such emphatic
endorsement. Read the testimony of
SYDNEY PEOPLE.
M
h
I
X
i
£9
mi
n-
v.r
8©
•tr.:--
w
e. ;:.V
FROM LEICHHARDT.
[FROM GLEBE
Mr. J. Cameron, 297 Balmain-road, Leichhardt, this city,
says : —“ For a few years I had been trying to get the upper hand
of kidney trouble, but all my efforts were futile until I used Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. I used to have pains in the back, and
these were so bad I had to lie about pretty well helpless, which
will give you a better idea of the serious condition I was in than
any other illustration. I had begun to imagine that it was not in
the power of medicine to bring me relief, when I got a box of
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills at Newman’s Pharmacy, King-
street. This remedy began to do that which so many had failed
to do. A few doses gave me an immense amount of relief, and in
a little while cured me completely of pains in the back, and put
my kidneys in perfect order. I can give these pills a first-rate
recommendation ; I know others who have been cured by ;' sir
Mr. William Greenland, who is a printer, lives at 22 Forsyth-
street, Glebe. He says :—“ For some considerable time I suf-
fered from backache and kidney complaint, having a heavy aching
pain in the small of my back just over the kidneys, which troubled
me a good deal. The secretions were very much disordered, con-
taining a large amount of sediment. I procured some of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills at Newman’s Pharmacy in King-street,
and now I have pleasure in stating that they did me a great deal
of good, completely removing my trouble and putting the kidneys
in a healthy state. Although I had previously tried a number of
other remedies I failed to get any benefit from them, I have
recommended Doan’s Pills to a number of people, some of whom
T know have tried them, and, like myself, have derived great
benefit from them.”
Get what you ask for. Get DOWN’S.
Don’t accept something jnst as good. All
Chemists sell DOAN’S Backache Kidney
Pills and will give you what you call for.
Some may attempt to substitute an article
they make more profit on. Insist on
having DOAN’S. Price 2s. 9d. per box
(six boxes 15s. 3d.).> Posted on receipt
oi price by Poster McClellan Co., 76
Pitt-strect, Sydney, N.S.W. ©
Some Persons Prayed for Rain.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
A parson person prayed
“O Lord, send down Thy rain,
For we are sore afraid
To lose our golden grain.
The land is sick with heat;
Some kind surcease afford ;
But, stay—our annual treat !
No ; not to-morrow, Lord ! ”
A hook-nosed person prayed
(He wore a diamond pin)
“ To-morrow, I’m afraid,
The favorite will win.
Lord send us down a shower—
A storm to flood each ford—
An inch—and more—an hour;
Yea; rain to-morrow, Lord !”
A female person prayed
“O Lord, send down Thy rain ;
My frocks are old and frayed,
I can’t meet Lady Jane.
But she will join the press,
That horrid Mrs. Ward,
Please spoil the creature’s dress,
Send down Thy rain, O Lord ! ”
A farming person prayed,
Full fervently he spoke:
“ O Lord, we are dismayed
For this is past a joke.
Turn on Thy Heavenly taps,
Or else we lose our crops,
And never mind the chaps
Who live in streets of shops ! ”
A shoppy person prayed,
“ O Lord, keep off Thy rain !
You know it’s bad for trade,
And You Yourself won’t gain.
Donations to the plate
We cannot then afford ;
Leave farmers to their fate,
And keep it fine, O Lord ! ”
A cricket person praye 1,
“O Lord, send down Thy rain !
Maclaren, I’m afraid,
Will win the toss again.
But if the pitch is wet
And not smooth, like a board,
Perhaps we’ll beat him yet
And win the match, O Lord ! ”
So each one made his prayer ;
So each one called his call;
But Heaven, in despair
Of pleasing one and all,
Just let their prayers go
For what each one was worth,
And that is why, you know,
The Earth is still the Earth !
O. C. CABOT.
My First Wash.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Dubino the summer of ’97 I was camping near
Loolgardie. My tent was situated on the side of
a lull overlooking Fly Flat, which was honey-
combed with the workings of dryblowers. For
seventeen good reasons I was studying strict
economy. Laundry prices, like all other prices at
the time, were excessive. Soiled clothes had been
accumulating in odd corners of my camp for some
weeks, and on raking the articles into a heap and
figuring out the cost of washing I was staggered
at the total. Thinking, however, that what
women and Japs could do well / could do better, I
decided to attend to the washing myself.
I bundled the heap into an empty kerosene-tin
and left them to soak till next day. I was not
sure of the necessity for this soaking, and as I had
put no so p on the clothes or in the water I am
convinced now that my suspicions were correct.
But I determined to follow the usual methods
until I had experience enough to improve upon
them.
I got up an hour earlier than usual the next morn-
ing. I did not see any reason for this, but it was
the usual plan. I had noticed that all washer-
women got up early and bad-tempered. After my
fourth or fifth attempt at washing I got into the
habit of getting up three days early. I awoke
very hungry, but I knew it was the correct thing
to start before breakfast, so I went out and made
a fire. Then I had breakfast.
During breakfast the fire wen t out.
As I had forgotten to put the tin on this did
not matter much. I relit the fire, put the tin on
made a billyful of coffee, spilled half of it, and lay
d( ™i again to read the paper and to smoke.
The fire smoked, too.
Coming out half-an-hour later, I did not notice
that the clothes were any cleaner, and this made
me trunk of soap. I put a bar of it into the tin
and went inside to smoke again.
Just as I was finishing my second pipe I heard
stealthy steps outside. Peering through the fly
of my tent, I recognised a certain mongrel. I de-
sired the death of that dog. He was a nuisance,
as he was always prowling about to pick up un-
considered trifles. Besides, he was a cannibal,
having sneaked into my tent a few days before and
scoffed two pounds of tinned relative. He was on
the other side of the fire, so I carefully crept on
all fours and selected a healthy lump of diorite.
Taking sure aim,-1 threw with deadly force and hit
the tin, which scattered its contents over the fire
and extinguished it. The cur suddenly remem-
bered an important engagement with another dog
like himself and left at great speed to keep it
leaving me aghast at the havoc I had wrought.
Here was a tragedy. Half-a-crown’s worth of
water at one fell swoop, my best copper boiler
badly dented, the fire out, and the clothes dirtier
than ever, also a bar of soap gone.
I felt so disgusted that I left the ruin as it was
and wandered down to the Flat. Here the atmos-
phere was principally composed of flies, dust and
blasphemy. None of the dry-blowers had seen any
gold that morning ; some of them had seen none
for weeks. When I volunteered a few sympa-
thetic remarks I was cursed for my trouble. This
was depressing. I should have remembered that,
when a man is really “ hard up,” he does not feel
pleased if some well-meaning fool “ rubs it in ” by
showing him how easily he is recognised as an
object for pity. Their bad luck reminded me of
my own impecuniosity, and, beside that, the
troubles of washing seemed trivial.
I returned to the camp just as my enemy, the
pestilential mongrel, made off with a most neces-
sary article of apparel.
He had no use for the garment, and had taken
it out of pure cussedness. It was simply an act
of revenge. The baseness of his motive shocked
me, and the loss of my—er—garment pained me,
so I gave chase.
A wildly-exciting race ended in the middle of
Fly Flat. The pup, being hard pressed, abandoned
his booty, and I triumphantly recovered my pro-
perty amid the laughter and cheers of the diggers.
Exhilarated by my success, I returned and re-
paired the damage done by my unlucky shot.
It was now past ten o'clock and high time to
bestir myself. The water was boiling, but the
clothes did not seem to be any cleaner. Obviously
something was lacking. Oh, yes ! they should be
stirred. For ten minutes I stirred the clothes
and poked the fire energetically, and then noticed
that as I performed both actions with the same
stick the result was not improving to either the
clothes or the fire. I selected two new sticks.
The one I chose for stirring with had a number
of sharp points, and this may have accounted, to
some extent, for the numerous holes that I subse-
quently found in the garments.
I did not know how long the boiling should
continue, but thought that three or four hours was
a fair thing, so I took the tin off the fire just
before dinner, so that the water should be cool
enough for the next operation as soon as I was
ready.
After dinner and a smoke, I considered what
was the next thing to do. The clothes should be
rubbed, rinsed and wrung before drying. Good,
I would rub them.
Presently, as I gazed at a couple of tattered
rags that had once been handkerchiefs, and noted
theblood running from my raw knuckles, I con-
cluded that there was a limit to the amount of
rubbing necessary. This operation was very
tedious, and I suddenly remembered that I had
seen clothes rubbed on a corrugated board. I
hadn’t that special kind of board, but perhaps the
side of a kerosene case would do. I gave it a
trial, but after tearing a shirt on an unnoticed
nail, and after I had picked some of the splinters
out of my fingers, I abandoned the board without
regret.
The flies were annoying, and it was not much
satisfaction to slap my face with my wet hands,
for the fly always escaped. About this time I
thought of the “ Dhobies,” or laundrymen, of
Ceylon. These dusky gentlemen wash the clothes
in a stream, and slap them upon broad, flat stones.
-t his knocks the dirt out and the buttons off.
There wasn’t a broad, flat stone in sight, and
there was no running stream, but I reckoned that
it would do just as well if I banged the garments
hard against one of the stakes that supported the
I chose the fly-stake—the front door-post, as it
were.
Twisting a kharki coat into a roll I swung it with
both hands, and brought it down with a grunt on
the fly-stake. Indignant at such unmerited and
uncalled-fur treatment, the stake immediately
broke, and the tent collapsed. From under the
calico came a weird, unearthly wail, and a bat-
tered pup struggled out and made off, filling the
air with assorted agony in minor keys.
It was mine own familiar friend, the enemy
Our little run in the morning had given him
an appetite, and he had returned to forage
When the tent collapsed the ridge-pole had atruok
him on the snout. He was only a small dog but
he made enough noise for a menagerie. ’
I resurrected the tent and had no further
trouble with my washing. Delight at my acci-
dental triumph over my canine foe kept me sim-
mering with merriment till sunset. By that time
my first wash was on the line. All the articles
that should have been snowy white were a dull
drab. Their color puzzled me, but I thought they
would be all right when they were dry. I did not
know then that it is not a good plan to boil a new
kharki suit with undyed articles. That knowledge
came later. 8
Heaving a great sigh of relief I climbed the hill
and sat on a stone to watch the sunset. It was
worth watching.
The sun was sinking slowly past long layers of
stratus clouds. These, blazing with reflected
glory, looked like a golden staircase down which
the Prince of Day slowly crept as if reluctantly
leaving a throne. When he sank out of sight the
gold took a ruddy tinge. Ruddier and ruddier,
till now it was an angry swmson. They were not a
staircase now; they were the ranks of a defeated
army sullenly following a vanquished monaroh in
his flight.
Down the road crept a camel team, the “plunk-
aplunk ” of their bells coming clearly through
the stillness. The light faded slowly, solemnly,
majestically. Darkness came, but I sat there
drinking in the beauties of the sky ; dreaming of
home and hearing soft whisperings of beloved
voices, and I felt very good.
When I awoke—for I had lain down, the better
to see the sky, and had fallen asleep—the planet
Venus was winking at me in a most disgraceful
manner.
I stumbled sleepily to my tent, and found that
my clothes-line had parted, and the whole of my
first wash was lying in the dust. A small object
that looked like a pickpocket on four feet got up
off the said wash as I approached, and fled for his
life. It was my evil genius, the dog. All the
wash smelt of dog as I gathered it up.
MENTOR.


J.
fs
TRADE
dfsd
MARK.
‘Graciosa*
PATENTED. REGISTERED.
The most Comfortable and Durable of Corsets.
Cannot Break at the Waist Line!
WHAT THE WEARERS SAY OF THEM—
Lady W. writes“ The ‘ GEACIOSA ’ Corset is simply perfect in shape,
adapting itself to the body in any position.”
Lady S. writes “I find your ‘ GEACIOSA’ Corset the most comfortable I have
ever worn, and a periect fit.”
Lady M. writes “Your • GEACIOSA ’ Corset is the very perfection of fit, the
very thing I have been wishing for, as there is perfect freedom of movement
of the body. lam quite delighted with it.”
Lady B. writes ” Your ‘ GEACIOSA ’ Corset is a splendid fit, and the most
comfortable corset I have ever worn.”
P.E. writes :—“ Our assistant likes the ‘GEACIOSA’ Corset very much, and
thinks they will be a great success, and have alargesale. We shall be very
pleased to give an order as soon as they are ready for delivery.”
W. T writes “ Your ‘ GEACIOSA ’ Corset gives great satisfaction.”
SOLD BY ALL FIRST CLASS DRAPERS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
W. S. THOMSON & Ltd., London, Manufacturers .
Makers of t e World-Renowned ‘‘Glove-Fitting’’’ Corsets.
G. P. Griffiths, Sole Agent for Australasia, Watsons Chambers, Melbourne.
12 PRIZE MEDALS .
fsd
f
Registered
by the
Medical
Board
of N.S.W.
PHYSI
RGEON.
HAVING had 30 years’ experience in all parts of the
world, and also having lately made an extended trip
through Europe and America, he is ip a position to
treat every case submitted to him according to the
methods of the most recent and eminent Specialists.
Every Case Traated on its own Merits.
Sufferers at a distance, unable to describe their cases to
their own satisfaction, should write for Dr. Watson’s
“Guide to Diagnosis B,”
POST FREE.
which will enable them to give exact and full particulars, so as
to enable him to report fully as to the disease a,nd its radical
and rational method of treatment.
Consultation Free
The publication of crowds of symptoms, testimonials and
puffs of one’s skill and attainments savours too much of self-
praise ; so the public should look with a doubtful eye upon all
those who “doth protest too much.”
Dr. Watson does not pretend to say that “ One Pound is
sufficient to send,” as stated in certain advertisements, for he
considers that the public are quite satisfied to pay a fair price
for fair and legitimate treatment.
sdf
137 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Please mention this Paper when writing.
mj
W
0
ft
Hswm
A Policy for the Commonwealt
PKICE, 6d.; Posted, Sd.
PRIZE MEDAL
s
takes first prize medals at Boston, Vienna, London, Phila-
delphia, Melbourne, and all other leading cities, for pro-
ducing the finest possible polish, and absolute freedom
from all substances injurious to the leather.
It is the favorite dressing of the world for
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
shoes, as it is easily applied, retains its brilliancy, and will
not rub off and soil garments. Try it once and you will
use it always. Sold nearly everywhere. Made only by
£> SONS,
df
OLii
m
•J-v
w
r.
nr
UK '
m
II *mm h
&
z&+£Sstii t
3 j
• JiIPS
-—3Sr.* ”» i •’
rVC
*
:
m
< •
at
0
o
TA
'
GUINEA
BOX.
On Our Selection.”
sdf
sd
ARE
»
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
The Langston Regenerator
WILL CURE
YOU
Its effects are almost instantaneous and the good results go
on increasing from day to day.
Health, Vigor, Strength
for all who
desire it.
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, permanently located in
Melbourne since 1886, originator of the Regenerator treatment, has so
perfected his method that it has revolutionised the art of Healing,
and it can almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable
cases.
Do you feel nervous, fretful, timid and lack the power of will and
action ? Are you subject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
Are
You a Sufferer
from bad health in
any of its many forms?
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a
disordered condition ? Do you feel generally debilitated ? Do you suffer from Rheumatism, Neuralgia or other
aches or pains ?
Do not fail to have the Doctor diagnose your case. If you are unfamiliar with the Regenerator treatment,
prepared in his own laboratory, which is annually curing thousands, send at once for full information ;
it is absolutely free.
Seek tlae Truths it costs IKTotlxixxg- !
No matter what you are suffering from, the Regenerator restores the shattered constitution
like magic.
All communications are considered sacredly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng., cor. Russell & Collins Sts,, Melbourne
o
$
<h
ƒ
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
mmiz
;i3E
d
CURES WHILE *
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and CojNfs
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.


Asbestos Boiler Covering
. . . Saves 25 Per Cent, in Fuel . . .
PACKED WET, Ready for Use, in 3cwt. Casks, 7/-, 8/-, 9/- cwt.
PACKED DRY, in Bags, each lewt., 12/-, 14/-; 16/- cwt.
Estimates given for Covering Boilers and
Steam Pipes*
OUR ASBESTOS BOILER COVER
Saves 25 per cent, in Fuel,
PERDRIAU and COMPANY,
Telephones— 418, 467.
-268-270 George Street, Sydney
60
fd
W„ C. ZEULZDIR.irDGKE] &c GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
IMP
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
BaSM
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send.
for Oatalogne.
fsds
4/V
1
AUSTRALIA
ƒ
1] MCI 1 aregfll
d
SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE.
PERTH
CARRIED.
S. FREEMAN * SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES; /
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
TOMATO SAUCE. ” JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE: WYNYAB.D SQUARE, SYDNEY.
I
;
The "Universal Remedy for Acidity of -the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructatio
The Physician's
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
an d the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
@ssr®ga,
DMNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
A
Write for Prices and Particulars of
■ -
rv\
KNOWLES
'
Best Value. Highest Efficiency.
A Large Stock of Pumps suitable for every
■
kind of service ready for immediate delivery.
60 Clarence-st., Sydney, and
533 Collins-st., Melbourne.
f
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
mHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
X Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. Oity,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
H. P. SRESBRy * CO.
General Machinery Merchants,
Sydney & Melbourne.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
BLAKE STEAM PUMP.
Best Pump in the Market for
■-Feeding 1 , Irrigating,
IVlining,
Fire and Marine Purposes.
SINGLE AND DUPLEX.
at.L SIZES, tip to 50,000 gallons, Imp.,
per hour, in Stock.
*S-Send for Particulars and Prices.
sdf
THE ONLY WAY
TO BE CURED of Weakening and Debilitating Diseases
is to obtain the PROPER REMEDIES. We have the
REMEDY that will CURE YOU. So CONFIDENT are
we of this, that we will send a trial course FREE OF
CHARGE and abide by the result. Send your symptoms
and prove our statement. Address — Botanic institute,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
A POLICY FOR TH€
/’'’•.’'a'' i ■<s .. I-,- t
m !
6d.
posted, Bd.
The Plica [ubricant Co., South Shields, Eng.
Lubricants and Packings for all purposes. Patent Mica Grease saves 90% in cost of lubrication, and keeps
bearings perfectly cool. Patent Mica Packings last twice as long as ordinary, and are 36% lighter. They do
not score the rods, but put a mica surface On them, Bimiiar in appearance to electro-plate.
Sole AgentJorAnstralatda ” R . A. H E RVEY. Dep6t, 171 Clrtence-st. , Sydney, N.S. W.
DON’T SHOUT.
I hear you. I can hear now as well as anybody.
How ? Oh, something new ; I have been using a pair
of Electricons.
They are entirely different to any other device.
Mr. W. R. Russell, 181 Brougham-street, Sydney, says:
“ A great number have noticed the improvement in my
hearing, and I may say that I hear plainer now than I
have for years. I have had better success with the
Electricons than any other of the many things I have
tried. The noises in the head have not troubled me since
wearing the appliances, and I have much to be thankful
to you for.”
Our Booklet, all about the ELECTRICONS for the cure
of DEAFNESS and HEAD NOISES, sent free, sealed.
Address—
L- R. VEIRKTOKT 00.,
60-64- HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
M
' 'r Cy
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
T ,WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
