

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC
Reid’s London Draught Stout,
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Cadbury's
m
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
jr. Gr. itct AWKxnaris && cso.,
107 Kent Street, Syaney,
—FOU—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
INSIDE BEARINGS.
Fittißg.No.tto6 for Fast. Wheels
Axiepart round and square
at ehds. rivettedf
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG, X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried in vest
po'ket and blown out to life-size (causes roars of
laughter), Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket, Book of
Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin and Card
Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character), The Mafeking Grub (or
nerve-strengthener), and, last of all, that side-splitting
Look and Laugh Glass, Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
Box 3, P. 0., Hayrharket.
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
XNEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-street, SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE &C° pm street, SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for Samuel Osborn & Co., Sheffield, makers of Muehet’s Titanic Borer Steel for Miners’ Drills, Bessemer Steei, Cast Steel, Mushet’s
Self-Hardening Tool Steel, Mining, Well-Boring, Spring, and Tyre Steel, Steel Castings of all Descriptions, Steei Truck Wheels and Axles.
INDENTS EXECUTED, SPECIFICATIONS SUPPLIED FOR ALL KINDS OF MACHINERY.
-.STEEL CASTINGS, HAMMERS, EILES.^^
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
“RACKAR
per
R. A. HERVEY,
Cor. Clarence & King-Sts
SYDNEY.
3E3:<o>t=?_^.hlT.
— ■fm — ,
Radley's Orient Hotel.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Grade).
J. A. TURNER - - Proprietor.
PENFOLDS WINES.
Grand Champion Prize of Australia at Melbourne, August 22, 1902-*
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
. and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 21 3 3| 4 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
~,7 -/9 -/10i 1/- 1/2 1/6 1/11 2 8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 2'll 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
ll7 York-street, SYDNEY.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
I '■ . i ijjiii
-a
m .
ECONOMY IN -
, CURRENT
LONG LIRE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE im SI SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch • 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildings, Edward-st., Brisbane.
Mining and Dredging Plants.
Fowler Traction Engines.
&c
The Clyde Engineering C?y. Lt°
Desiccating Plants, Hopper Waggens 3 &c.
m
PROOF
USE
HeaA Office:
10 BLSGH ST., SYDNEY
BRYANT & MAY’S WAX VESTAS
... PATENT SAFETY MATCHES
Full Size, Full Count, The Very Best.
See that the name Bryant & May
is ori Every Box.
A NICE PRESENT.
The New Combination PIN-
CUSHION, THIMBLE & REEL
HOLDER, nickel plated, plush
top. Clamps on to any table
by means of a spring. Price,
only 25.; post free.
Star Novelty Company,
229-231 Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
VBSSTORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
rplIE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
i-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
WHEN buying a KEROSENE GAS STOVE insist
on getting a noiseless
JUPITER
The Very Latest
Invention.
Burns Noiselessly,
Without Smell
or Smoke,
Perfectly Safe.
' Obtaimdj First Prize
ibherei'er exhibited.
Stocked by all Leading Hardware Merchants’ and
Storekeepers.
Sole Agents for Australasia—
Melson and Robertson,
17 10FTUS ST., SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vol 23.—N0. 1180. j
[Saturday, September 27, 1902.
Postered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


♦“The Forerunner,” by Dimitri Merejkowski (Con-
stable, London).
THE LATEST BOOKS BY THIS WEEK'S MAIL.
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Milford, Word of the Sorceress, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Wiggin (Kate Douglas), Diary of a Goose Girl, 2s 6d &
3s 6d, p. 6d.
Aelly, With Hoops of Steel, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Algiers, Paris, 1789-1794, 12s 6d, p. 9d.
Mordaunt, Garden of Contention, 2s 6d, p. 4d.
Wright and Smith, Parliament, Vol. 1., 9s, p. Is.
Prichard, Tammer’s Duel, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Merejkovvski, The Forerunner, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Pett-Ridge, Lost Property, 2 S 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Schofield, Force of Mind, 6s, p. 6d.
Brooks, Law of Growth, 6s, p. 6d.
Van Wormal, On Commando, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Keary, High Policy, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST. #
[ King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
BUSH HAN AND
BUCCANEER.
The Life and Writings of Harry Morant,
Gives the true facts as to the Bushveldt Carbineers
and certain Australian scapegoats.
Wholesale from EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE.
Retail from ail Booksellers, and Post-Free from
“ The Bulletin ” Office Is. Id.
“Cbe Bulletin” Story Book
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
the Best sbcrt Stories
■, •vv- v.< .\ • • ■ .
of two Decades.
nothing better typical
of Australian tetters.
VIVID
VIVID
VIVID
VIVID
BRIGHT
BRIGHT
BRIGHT
BRIGHT
RACY
RACY
RACY
RACY
Price 4/6 ; Post Free from Bulletin Office, 5/■
The representative book of Australian humor—
STEELE RUDD’S
“ On Onr Selection.”
Second impression now ready. Price, 6s. Bd.
post free from The Bulletin office.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL (&W jujubes
FOR THE THROAT! THE VOICE! THE LUMSSS!
Miss AMY CASTLES writes“ 1 have used your Eumenthol
Jujubes and have found them invaiuable for the throat, par-
ticularly in case of colds.
1 should like to recommend them to all singers.”
QwJ.
THE RED PAGE .
A. Russian Neo-Pagan.
FROM Russia, perhaps, will come, one day,
a genius of Letters able to do something :
more than repeat and refine the thoughts 1
of the dead, and the Slav people produce the 1
next supreme Poet. European writers even of the
first rank have for long been only graceful spinners
of words, fashioning familiar gold into more dainty
shapes. But in Russian literature there are to be
found indications of a rugged strength and virile
originality in style and thought which make for ;
genius.
Dimitri Merejkowski, the latest Russian novelist ;
to command the attention of translation into 1
foreign languages, gives more promise of real
greatness than either Tolstoi or Dostoievski or
Gorki. He has more imagination, more human ,
sympathy, more breadth of thought than any of '
the three. There is something of the torrential 1
Pindaric quality in his vast pictures of life, which 1
seize the emotions and hold them breathless. Yet 1
he lacks almost all the technique of the novelist’s 1
art, and throws the riches of his mind before the
reader, as a drunkard in his cups scatters pell-
mell the viands from the banqueting board to ■
the floor. The “Forerunner,” Merejkowski’s
latest and so far best work, aims to give
on one canvas the whole story of the Italy
of the Renaissance—crowding together in the
picture the Borgias, the Sforzas, Michaelangelo,
Raphael, MachiaVelli, Savonarola, and Leonardo
da Vinci. The personality and philosophy of the
last is the only thread of coherence throughout—
the unhappy story of his splendid, though in
most respects futile, career. On that is strung
incident after incident in barbaric confusion —
the rise and fall of princes and cities, the
careers of painters and peoples, pictures of the
Vild luxury, the bestial dissoluteness, the un-
canny ventures in Black Art of medieval Italy.
The Renaissance of Paganism, and the toilets of
Beatrice of Milan; the philosophy of mathe-
matics, and the amours of the Borgias ; the ser-
mons of Savonarola and wine-house brawls; Machi-
avelli’s terrible teachings and his low intrigues
—all these and more, much more, are presented in a
phantasmagoria which makes the mind reel as
with strong wine. Yet withal the picture,
though crowded, confused, kaleidoscopic, is real.
There is not a mere aggregation of facts, a piling
up of the dry bones of knowledge. Unlike a
Macaulay, spreading his laborious peacock tail,
Merejkowski gets the atmosphere of the Italy of
the Renaissance. He seems to have lived in the
days whose terrible tale he tells—as it were, with
gasping breath and mind confused by the multi-
tude of its impressions. And his heroic figure,
Leonardo da Vinci, stands out from the welter of
personages and incidents, with real distinctness,
living and grand. Less clearly but still palpably,
shows the motif of the book, the argument between
Christianity and Paganism, between Revelation
and Science.
That is a subjeer oA which Europe in the 19th
century heard much. After some centuries of
undisturbed, if but little genuine, belief in Christi-
anity, a whole host of critics sprang up in a night.
Nietszche, Heine, Wagner, Schopenhauer, Whit-
man, the English Hedonists, a section of devout
religionists of whom St. George Mivart was the
type, and many others, began (all at once it might
almost be said) to declare, suggest, or hint
that the great minds of Greece and Rome
were not deep sunk in abysmal ignorance so far
as spiritual philosophy was concerned, that there
was much reason in a Pantheism, which, after all,
might be construed as a symbolical interpretation
of the one Divine mind finding expression in
different ways. The 19th century saw, in short, a
revival of “ Paganism ” —a frank avowal of Hedon-
ism in some writers; an effort on the part of a
great Roman Catholic philosopher to reconcile the
views of the most dogmatic of Christian faiths
with a belief in God worshipped in the form of
Venus, Jove, or Bacchus; and
professed in many quarters to the Christian ideal
as unnatural, unreasonable, and therefore im-
moral. This movement was precisely matched
during the Renaissance in Italy—though the
churches were then stronger to combat heretical
opinion than now, and the facts which present-day
destructive critics of orthodoxy may cite from the
researches of science were not then available.
Merejkowski, who evidently sympathises with
Hedonism (a lofty, not a sensual, Hedonism—
the ideas of a Marcus Aurelius, or of an
Epictetus) traces minutely the Pagan revival
which marked the efflorescence of Italian
thought in the 15th and 16th centuries, and
he makes Da Vinci (the painter of “The Last
Supper”) its prophet and forerunner. Vinci is
the personage, the discussion of Christian ideals
and their opposites the purpose, of the book.
Whilst in its whole effect “The Forerunner”
ts chaotic and disordered, the detail work is always
fine. In some cases it may be unnecessary, but it
is never in itself paltry, This, for instance, of a
sermon by Savonarola.
Giovanni saw a man in the black and white Dominican
habit girdled with a rope, who slowly ascended the
pulpit-stair and removed his cowl. His face was emaci-
ated and yellow as wax, his lips thick, his nose aquiline,
his forehead low. His left hand fell weakly on the desk,
his right he raised clutching the crucifix; and silently
with burning eyes he looked upon the trembling and
expectant crowd. Profound silence reigned, in which
each man could hear the beating of his own heart. The
eyes of the monk glowed increasingly, till they were like
fiery coals ; but he still kept silence, and the strain of
waiting became unendurable. It seemed that in another
moment the crowd would burst into screams.
Yet the calm became more deep, more awful ; till,
suddenly rending the silence,came the terrible, lacerating,
superhuman cry of the friar
“ Ecee, ego adduco aquas super terram (Behold I bring
a flood upon the earth !) ”
A shudder passed through the crowd, raising the hair
from the head. Giovanni paled ; he fancied the earth
quaking, the cathedral arches about to fall. Beside him
the stalwart tinker was shaking like a leaf, his teeth
chattering. The head of the feeble carpenter had sunk
backward on his shoulders as if he had received a blow,
his face was shrivelled, his eyelids closed.
What followed was not a sermon but a delirium, which
took hold of those thousands of people and shook them
as a storm shakes the withered leaves. Giovanni listened,
scarcely understanding. Detached phrases reached his
ear:—
“O Florence! O Rome ! O Italy ! Past is the time of
songs and of feasting ye are sickened unto death. Lord;
Thou art witness, that with my words I would have
averted this ruin ! But I can no more. I have no words
more. I can but weep, and run over with my tears.
Mercy ! Mercy ! O merciful Lord ! Alas ! my poor
people ,! Alas ! my Florence ! ”
He opened his arms, and the last words had sunk to a
scarcely audible whisper. They passed over the crowd
and died away, like the rustle of wind in the leaves—a
sigh of infinite pity.
Pressing his white lips on the crucifix, he knelt and
burst into sobs. The sermon was ended. The slow,
heavy organ-notes rolled out, persuasive and immense, in-
creasingly solemn and terrible, like the sound of the
mighty ocean.
A woman’s voice cried “ Misericordia 1 ”
And thousands of voices answered, calling one to
another ; and like corn stalks bowing before the wind,
the people fell upon their knees, line upon line, wave
upon wave, crowding upon, striking against each other,
like a flock of sheep panic-struck at the advance of a
storm ; and the long, agonising wail of penitents, upon
whom pressed the terror of immediate ruin, rose to
Heaven, mingling with the pealing of music, shaking the
ground, the marble pillars, and the vaults of the
cathedral.
“ Misericordia! Misericordia ! ”
Giovanni also sank .to his knees, sobbing.
At that moment, raising his face, wet with tears, he
saw at his side the tall, upright form of Leonardo da
Vinci. The artist, leaning carelessly against a column,
held in his right hand his unfailing sketch-book ; with
his left he was drawing; how and then he glanced at the
pulpit as if hoping to see once more the head of the
preacher.
A stranger, and surrounded by the terrified crowd,
Leonardo maintained a superb composure. In his cool,
blue eyes, on his thin lips, tightly compressed like those
of a man of minute observation, there was the same aloof-
ness and curiosity with which he mathematically measured
the body of the Aphrodite. At sight of him the tears
dried in Giovanni’s eyes, and the prayer was silenced
upon his lips.
Leaving the church he followed the artist and asked
permission to see his sketch. Leonardo demurred, but
presently handed the boy his sketch-book. And Giovanni
saw a frightful caricature ; not Savonarola, but an old and
hideous devil in the dress of a monk, like the preacher in-
deed, but as if disfigured by self-inflicted and torturing
penance, his pride and his desires still unsubdued. The
lower jaw protruded, wrinkles intersected the cheek, the
neck was twisted and black as a mummy’s, the bushy,
beetling brows, the rabid glance scarce preserved a
semblance of humanity. All that was dark, terrible, and
superstitious, all which gave Savonarola into the power
of the deformed, tongue-tied visionary Maruf, was ex-
pressed by Leonardo in this sketch ; brought out with
neither anger nor pity, but with an imperturbable and
impartial clear-sightedness.
And Giovanni remembered his words: “ L’ingegno dell’
pittore vuol essere a similitudine dello specchio.” (The
genius of the painter should be as a mirror, reflecting all
objects, and colours, and movements, itself ever trans-
parent and serene.)
Machiavelli as seen by Merejkowski:—
The man had great bony hands, copiously dyed with
ink, and a wart on one finger. There was little dignity
in his air ; he was lean and narrow shouldered, about 40
years of age, and with sharp, irregular features. Some-
times when he was speaking he would look over the head
of his interlocutor, as if peering into space like some long-
sighted, rapacious bird. In his restless movements, in
the feverish flush of his swarthy cheeks, above all, in the
intentness of his large, grey eyes, there was evidence of
smouldering fire within. The eyes themselves were
malicious ; yet at times, in their sardonic smile, in their
cold displeasure, there was an expression of weakness
almost pathetic.
Niccold Machiavelli continued to pour forth his
notions ; and Leonardo marvelled at the strange mixture
of truth and error in his talk, at his audacity, and his
slavish appeal to the authority of the ancients.
Much of Machiavelli’s conversation in “ The
Forerunner” is transferred bodily from “The
Prince.” This is more original:—
A little later, Lucio, who was passing through Fano on
his way to Ancona, came in for a visit, and Machiavelli
spoke to him of the execution.of Don. Ramiro de Lorqua.
“To divine the real reasons for the actions of a ruler
like Cassar Borgia is almost impossible,” he said, “ but as
you ask me what I think of this deed, I will tell you.
Till its conquest by the duke, Romagna was under the
yoke of a number of petty tyrants, and full of disorder,
plundering, and violence. To end this state of tur-
bulence Cassar appointed his astute and faithful servant,
Don Ramiro, as his lieutenant. This man accom-
plished his task; he inspired the people with a
salutary terror, and established perfect tranquility
throughout the country, but he did it by a long series of
cruel punishments. When the prince saw that his object
was gained, he determined to destroy the instrument of
his severity. Don Ramiro has been seized, on the ground
of extortion, and executed ; his dead body lies exposed
to public view. This terrible spectacle has at once grati-
fied and awed the people. The duke’s action has been
wise, for he has reaped three clear advantages. First, he
has slain the tyrants; secondly, by condemning Ramiro,
he has dissociated himself from his lieutenant’s ferocity,
and so has gained a character for gentleness ; thirdly, by
sacrificing his favorite servant, he has set an example of
incorruptible equity.”
in a low, dry voice, with expression-
less countenance, as if stating his reasoning on some
theorem.
“ From your own words, Messer Niccolb,” cried Lucio,
“ I perceive that this supposed equity is the excess of
villainy 1 ”
Sparks of fire appeared in the secretary’s eyes, but he
looked away and spoke as coldly as before.
“ It may be so,” he assented, “ but what of it ? ”
“What of it? Would you approve such scoundrelly
statecraft ? ”
“Young man, you speak with the inexperience of youth.
In politics, the difference between the way men should,
and the way they do act, is so great, that to forget it
means to expose yourself to certain ruin. For all men
are by nature evil and vicious; they are virtuous only
for advantage or through fear. A prince who would
avoid ruin, must at all hazards learn the art of appear-
ing virtuous ; and he must be or not be virtuous as the
case may require. He must disregard all uneasiness of
conscience as to those secret measures without which the
preservation of power is impossible ; for upon accurate
knowledge of the nature of good and evil, it is clear that
the power of a prince will often be undermined by his
virtuous actions and augmented by his crimes.”
Lucio again protested. “Reasoning thus,” he cried,
“ anything would be permissible, and there is no wicked-
ness which you could not justify ! .*
“ That is so,” replied Machiavelli, with perfect serenity
The Russian writer makes to live his huge gallery
of characters. With wonderful care Merejkowski
has studied his facts. In truth “The Forerunner,”
were it not remarkable for the daring of its
symbolism, the high imaginativeness of its charac-
terisation, would be admirable for the evidently
patient and humble care in research of its author.
It is a mine of facts and a mine of poetry ; a
treasure of history and a daring essay into the
Secrets of the Unknown. Loose in construction
(much more so than that great romance Les
Miserables), showing plainly a mental confusion,
a groping after elusive conclusions, “The Fore-
runner ” is withal the work of a great writer.
F.R.
“C.C.C.” regarding some points of N.S. W.
Library administration:
To whom is the public of N.S.W. indebted for the pre-
sent chaotic state of the Sydney Free Library? Some
little time ago, I had occasion to refer to a collection of
French fables, chansons, folk-songs, &e., published under
the title of “ Drdleries Joyeuses,” which, though duly
catalogued, was not to be found on the Library shelves.
On reference to an attendant-; I found that the volume,
together with several others, which were not considered
“ ver y n >ce ”(I use his own words), was kept in a special
part of the building, not accessible to the public. It was
with great difficulty I got the hook, and only on promis-
ing not to keep it too long and to return it directly to the
attendaht. So far as I could see. there was nothing in
the work that would warrant its being placed on an index
of prohibited books. If it be an improper production,
those who are responsible for the purging of the Sydney
Library have used very little discrimination in their
task. They have strained at some very insignificant
gnats and swallowed enormous camels. In the very first
room one enters, these gentlemen could now find what,
to them, would be as choice a collection of ancient
and modern filth and obscenity as could be
found anywhere in a midsummer day’s search —Martial,
Juvenal, Lucian, Balzac, Dubois, Gautier, Latour are all
there, naked and unashamed ; whilst hot far away the
amateur of the erotic can find, bound up with an innocent
looking “Cornelius Nepos,” the unutterably filthy
“Satvricon” of Petronius Arbiter. Why the censors
should draw distinctions between “ Droleries Joyeuses ”
and the authors I have mentioned is best known to them-
selves. To the average person it is quite inexplicable,
it cannot be denied for a moriient that the pages of many
Latin, French, and English authors are disfigured by
much that is objectionable, but that constitutes no valid
reason why the public, whose property they are,
should have any difficulties placed in the way of
reading them. There is probably no finer description of
a Roman banquet extant than that given by Petronius,
and perhaps nothing more licentious than the same
author’s story of the orgies at the house of Quartilla, and
both, from a literary standpoint, are valuable. Mingled
with the dirt and garbage, there is much fine gold which
ihe literary chiffonier would not fail to pick out. In the
case of foreign authors, no great danger to the public
morals need be apprehended, because the great majority
of those visiting the Library would not be able to read
them. But what is the object of all this manipula-
tion of the literary property of the public'? It
cannot surely be the protection of the young per-
son’s morals, seeing that the modern sex novel,
which he or she is at liberty to buy and
read ad libitum, is quite as objectionable—actually
and suggestively—as anything I have named. Take, for
instance, “ A Daughter of the Vine.”
The only raison f,tre of this contemptible book is an
illicit infant conceived under singularly objectionable cir-
cumstances, and with such hog-wash the book markets of
the world are literally flooded. Again, how many parents
in this Commonwealth would care to deny their children
free access to the Holy Scriptures, and where is there
such a cloaca of obscenity as the Old Testament? Or
bow many of the Rev. Panargus O’Blareaways who
afflict this long-suffering community would dare
to read certain portions of those same Scriptures to
a mixed audience, or, for that matter, to any audience ?
But let anyone propose that the Bible be expurgated
or locked up, and these same O’Blareaways would raise
a howl that would shake Sydney to its foundations. If
those responsible for the management of our Public
Library would gather all literature of the. kind indicated
into a separate room, and there arrange it in sections of
the various languages in which it is written, they could
then easily discriminate as to who should have access
thereto, if such discrimination were thought necessary,
which, for the most part, it would not be. Such a course
would serve a double purpose. It would be a distinct
boon to a small but worthy portion of the reading public,
and tend towards the better preservation of some very
valuable books, amongst others a magnificent collection
of Delphin Classics. As things now are, the reader is
confronted with a perfect wilderness of Latin, Greek,
French, German, Italian, and English authors mixed up
in endless confusion, and often without the least attempt
at classification. What gems of literature may be cribbed
and confined in the Librarian’s chamber of horrors can
only be conjectured.
J*
* ‘ Nymsie ” writes :
Judging by the initial two columns of his latest yarn,
“His Brother’s Keeper,” now running in Melb. Age,
Henry Lawson insults the intelligence of the large army
of Australian readers when he thinks it necessary to
explain the meaning of commonplace “ bush” terms—
the following example:—“He was ‘ringer’ (fastest
shearer) of the shed at Piora Station one season, and made
a decent cheque, and within a fortnight after the shed
‘ cut out ’ (finished shearing) he turned up at home in a
very bad state from drink.” But, maybe, this yarn was
edited for home consumption, and reaches Australia as a
syndicate venture.
Just so; the blame is the editor’s rather than the
author’s.
Angus and Robertson, Sydney, will shortly pub-
lish a book of reminiscences of the late Dean
Cowper, who saw so much of the early life of
N.S.W., but—alas for the literary value of his
observations ! —saw it with so pure and colorless
and conseiehce-bound a soul.
London Daily Chronicle hits off “ Smiler ”
.Hales :
And to a reader in sound health and average brain-
power Mr. Hales is terribly tiring. He is not a bore.
That word just misses him, though as a man of one idea
he stands within its danger. His tiresomeness is that of
the man who speaks always in a shout, and would send
our fingers to our ears even if he were an archangel telling
eternal truths at the top of his voice.
The trustees of the Melbourne Public Library
have granted themselves the privilege of being
able to borrow books. Result: people wishing to
use the library are often inconvenienced in not
being able to get a book, which, it happens, a
trustee has out on loan, and for which they must
wait until the trustee is finished with it The
principal offenders are a student of metaphysics,
and an expert in gore. Another grievance against
this institution is the unenlightened methods of
the book-selection committee, who refuse to get
the works of the leading European writers. Some
time ago they refused to get D’Annunzio’s works,
Huysman is altogether unobtainable, while of
Maeterlinck there are only a couple of volumes.
“H.”: Bailey, of Festus, has gone at last.
Sixty-five years ago he produced that really
great work, and it virtually exhausted him.
Fortunately he was a rich man, and he lived on
his nice estate called Bagatelle. Tennyson said,
apropos the first edition of Festus, that he could
not trust himself to pen his enthusiastic appreci-
ation of it. So with Buhver, and many of the
highest contemporaries. Bailey went on tiddling-
up and spoiling the poem all his life. The thing
is to get the very first edition. I cannot get one
farther back than 1867, with plenty of spoils of
course. The original Festus, scoured of garnish-
ments, will have another run, in its white heat.
Bailey bloated it out to about six times the first
size.
J*
Thursday Island “Governor” John
Douglas, in a recent article in the Nineteenth Cen-
tury, is certainly interesting. Douglas tells bow,
in the year 1851, he roused the ire of William
Charles Wentworth by suggesting that if all the
white population went to the goldfields they could
send for Chinese. Mr. Douglas further asserts that
“ even Dr. Lang, the great agitator and advocate
of British immigration, admitted that we might
have coolies from British India, seeing that
Moreton Bay was a semi-tropical country, and
coolies might help to grow cotton for Manches-
ter.” As to the early Polynesian traffic, Mr.
Douglas is very frank: “The enormities of the
slave trade were reproduced with variations
which only feebly differentiated it from its
African prototype.” He might also have added
that the mortality among the Polynesian slaves
on the Queensland plantations is a feature in
which the Bananaland slave business is decidedly
ahead of the old American system. The slaves
on American plantations increased and multi-
plied. They die-off in Queensland. The Thursday
Island Filipino, Mr. Douglas tells us (when
sufficiently well off) “orders a wife from the con-
ventual schools of Macao” —just as he would buy
a pig or a sheep or a sack of rice. Mr. Douglas is
convinced that “the vast area of Northern Aus-
tralia cannot be peopled by Europeans alone.”
Just as was Dr. Lang that Moreton Bay would
have to be cultivated by coolies.
J*
Editor Kelly, of Wellington (M.L.) Times, will
shortly publish a book of verse, “ Heather and
Fern.” Mr. Kelly’s verse is favorably known to
Bulletin readers.
Some talk about reproducing in book form, in
Sydney, a selection of the fugitive work of the
late Robert Richardson. Richardson published
three or four books in England, and died regret-
ting that he parted with the copyrights there.
jir
Re retaliatory death-penalty. Euripides (though
not a recent authority) is worth quoting:
The wisdom of our ancestors ordained
That he, who had the guilt of blood upon him,
Be not allowed the sight, the walks of men,
By banishment atoning, not by death ;
Else one roust always be to death devote,
Who hath the last pollution on his hands.
Kipling’s next volume of stories is to be illus-
trated with his own drawings.
J*
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ Max S." : Not suitable.
“ The Neat Ant ” : Thanks ; but you don’t quite make
your meaning clear (discussing “ Eve Triumphant,”
30/8/’O2), except on this point: “ How long prehistoric
man followed the brute force line of reasoning in dealing
with women we may not be able to certainly know, but
scrambling down the centuries into the articulateness of
historic man we find him, quite recently, enjoined by law
to desist from using anything ‘ thicker than a man’s
thumb ’in the bringing up of woman. Brought up thus
on sapling, woman perhaps found it convenient to be
man’s woman. To-day, with the- historic and the pre-
historic sapling laid to rest, woman finds herself under
another, and scarcely less effective, form of persuasion.
In these days of increased cost of living, no man can sup-
port the women of his establishment, even if they be few.
Women must, therefore, whether she chooses or not,
scramble for her own living; and, with most ways of
making a living so difficult of entrance by her, she is
obliged to give her best attention to the one offering least
resistance. To succeed in this particular line of business,
woman must be man’s woman—whatever that may be—
still.”
“ J. 8.” (Q.) asks “ the name of a-German poem giving
the legend of a Duke. When he reaches the age of 70 he
is turned out into the street by his own son. The old
father begs for shelter and a crust of bread.; it is refused.
Baldwin, the son, sends his own son (five years old) into
the stable to get a horse rug for the old man and on
returning he brings only a half of the rug, and he says,
‘ One half is enough for the old man ; I will keep the
other half for you.’ Twenty years after the boy sends his
father off too 1 ” [The story is familiar—though the end-
ing we used to know was that the provident care of the
youngster brought remorse to the cruel son—but we
are not aware of its origin.]


Xa
WINGHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
S 3 "3T 33 DNT 13 "X".
M c DOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
ivr‘T-tr>TTrt. a t.t. BROS., 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
AGENTS: . „ „ „ . .
Z. L. & m.A. Co., Ltd., Australia and New Zealand : Strachan, Cheedle & Co., Adelaide; J. B. Curran. Honan.
SKINS
SEND ALL SKINS TO
Kangaroo,
Wallaby,
Rabbit,
Opossu
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY,
The Leading Salesmen. Full Values and Quick Returns.
WONDERFUL VALUE IN PIPES.
Sales-
-150,000 Weekly
Caht B Beat
Briar Root Pints
Gl)ftß^ TEED
NOT TO
CRACK /
OR /
mm,
LATEST"" MOST
UP TO DATE SHAPES
p wce JA.
6y Post
Quality not better in a Guinea I*ipe.
(StiaraQtc?.
Should any of our Celebrated C. 8.8. Pipes crack or burn a new one will be
exchanged for it immediately on application.
Price Lists on application. MICK SIMMONS, Hayn>ark«t, Sydney.
Direct Importer of Tobaccos, Cigars, Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods, Hairdressers’Requisites, Leather
Goods, Cutlery, Rolled Gold Jewellery, Haberdashery, Stationery, Fishing Tackle, Sporting
Goods, Guns, Ammunition, etc., etc. TOP QUALITY BOTTOM PRICES.
CANT-B-BEAT
SAFETY RAZOR.
Particularly Useful
at Sea.
Shaving
with ordinary
razors is not
easy for anybody. It
takes months, yes, years of
practice, and few during
the period escape many
and sefious cuts. Even
with experience, despite
care, Cuts may be inflicted.
Use the
CAN’T-B-BEAT
SAFETY RAZOR
Shave every morning with
absolute ease, comfort,
and security . . .
PRICE COMPLETE, in Case .. .. ss. 9d.
In Leather Case, with Extra Blade .. Bs. 9d.
EXTRA BLADES 2s. 3d.
Every Razor Guaranteed and Set ready for use.
TOILET REQUISITES—Lowest Price at . . .
CAN’T-B-BEAT RAZOR
Quv
HOLLOW
GROUND
Can’t-B-Beat
Razors are manufactured
from the very finest English
Razor Steel, and warranted ground by the
most expert workmen in the world, who excel
in this branch of skilled labor.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, J-inch 4s. 9d.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, f-inch .. ss. 3d.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in ease, |-inch .. ss. 9d.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, |-inoh .. 6s. 3d.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, with ivory handle.. 108. 6d.
Presentation Case—containing Two
Oan’t-B-Beat Razors, ivory handles .. 218.
MICK SIMMONSy HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
(C
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 65., Postage Bd., from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMQNT.
Sole Charge : 3 Per Cent, -fco the growers
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
Liberal Advances,
Accurate Valuations,
When required.
WOOL
Selling: Brokers.
PROMPT
RETURNS A
SPECIALITY.
HARRISON, JONES & DEVLIN, Ltd.
Special Attention to
details.
Weights carefully
taken.
Principals
having: over 30 Years*
Experience Conduct
All Wool Sales
Offices and Stores:
Circular Quay
Sydney.
TRADE
FOX
MARK
FOX Bros. & Co., Ltd., warn the public that their Trade Mark consists
ONLY OF THE WORD FOX
which is a guarantee of soundness of material and quality of dye of all
Worsted Coatings, Serges&Tweeds
on which it is stamped.
As the result of many years of experience . . .
FOX’S RURE INDIGO DYE
is recognised as the best in the market. All FOX’S Standard Cloths are
stamped every two yards on the back —
FOX
PURE INDIGO
and without this stamp are not genuine. These celebrated serges can be
obtained from the leading Tailors snd Drapers throughout the Colonies.
FOX BROS & Co., Ltd., WELLINGTON, SOMERSEI, England.
MOIR’S
HERRINGS
In Tomato Sauce.
In I lb. Flat Oval Tins,
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office-9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
WHY WE USE NO DRUGS.
BECAUSE THEY ARE AN UNNECESSARY EXPENSE, and a useless auxiliary to ELECTRICAL treatment.
Because twenty years’ experience in the use of Electricity has taught us that all CHRONIC FUNCTIONAL AILMENTS
can only be cured by a NATURAL AID ; that DRUGS weaken rather than enhance the value of the ELECTRIC
CURRENT as a curative.
We know that the life of each organ, each nerve, depends upon a hidden vital force, and we know that ELEC-
TRICITY is that force. If each nerve cell in your body is full of NERVE FORCE (Electricity) you can have no weakness.
To the man or woman with LAME BACK, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, LUMBAGO, NERVE EXHAUS-
TION, or any CHRONIC AILMENT, we can offer you a Sure and Certain Cure. Long ago you passed the stage where
medicine was of any value, and now your only chance of regaining strength lies in using
Or. (Ijc[aughlin’s Electric gelt.
It infuses New Life into the Nerves while you sleep. It expands
the tissues, and develops the organs, Cures the Worst cases of
Weakness in three months. Don’t let anyone induce you to take
drugs. Drop them entirely, and you’ll thank us for thus urging you.
Gentlemen,—The first night I wore your Belt I slept splendidly,
and have improved wonderfully since. In fact, I can eat any-
thing, do anything, and sleep anywhere. Nothing in the way of
drugs did me any good before. Wishing you every success, and
trusting that other sufferers will procure one of your Belts, as
I am sure they will never regret it.—l Temain, yours gratefully,
MITTAGONG, N.S.W. R. J. BARR.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co. August 28th, 1902.
Sirs, —Since I have been wearing one of jrnur Electric Belts I
feel quite well, my food agrees with me, and I have no rushing of
sour water to my mouth now, as formerly, in fact, I feel better
all over.
Since I have had your Electric Belt I feel a new man, and get
up in the morning as fresh as a daisy. Yours very truly,
KORRUMBURRA, VICTORIA. S. C. BRAY.
Notice.
If you have an old style.o3elt thatdisappointed
you, Send it in, and wewillallpw you for it in
exchange. We do this not because the old
belt is of any use, for it is not. But we wish to show people can-
didly that there is only one real electric Belt to be had, and that
we have nothing in common with concerns selling a cheap, worth-
less article. (No consulting fees to be paid).
All Medical Skill Failed but the Belt Cured.
30 Underwood Street, Paddington,
The Dr. McLaughlin 00. September 4th, 1902.
Sirs, —After thirty years’ suffering from injury to my back and
kidneys, the result of a fall from my horse, your Electric Belt has
done for me what the best medical skill had failed to do.
I can now recommend the Belt to every sufferer. lam 60
years of age. Yours vdry truly, ELIZABETH ROSE.
m/A
m.
SSL
THE . Dr. McLaughlin Co.
85 King-street, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office—l67E Swanston Street.
Frgc Book.
For the benefit of all persons interested in this Grand Remedy, we publish a Beautifully Illustrated Book, giving cuts
and showing how we apply Electricity in all CHRONIC AILMENTS. It gives also many names of people cured. Write
for it. You may find the names of some of your friends in it. SENT FREE—POST PAID.
Call and have a Free Test. See the Ease and Comfort with which Our Belt can be used. Don’t delay, but call to-day and get a Booh
It’s full of good things a sick man likes to see. Consultation and ad vice either by post or personally is absolutely free. Hours—9 a.m. to 8.30 p.m


RS ALL’S
*
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
NOW OPEN.
Demonstration H. Oct. 6.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To Tattersall,
Please allot me
shares in the above.
N ame
Address
Oct. 18
Caulfield C.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To Tattersall,
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
Address
£
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
Nov. 4.
elbourne C.
To Tattersall,
Please allot me
£
.shares in the above.
Name.
Address
Melbourne C. Nov.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To Tattersall,
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
Address
Melbourne C. Special.
Drawn Morning of the Rac^
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To Tattersall,
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
£
Address
• •
• •
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“ TATTERS ALL ”) STILL CONTINUES
his business in HOBAR J, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT, and that
clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend or acquaintance in HOBART, who will
there have no difficulty m delivering the application and securing the despatch of tickets and results
direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE ADAMS,
Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will plea e request Bank to advise
GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL DELIVERY
CO. doing business with Tasmania.


Cheapest House in A stralia for EDISON
Phonographs * Records
“BIJOU,” with 6 Records £1 10 0
EDISON “STANDARD," with 12 Records .. 510 0
EDISON “ HOME,” with 24 Records .. .. 810 0
COMBINATION A 1 “GRAND,” taking both
Large and Small Records, with 12 Records, 6
Concert (sin.) Records and Large Horn .. 10 10 0
EDISON RECORDS, English and American,
per dozen 100
CONCERT(Sin.) RECORDS, per dozen.. .. 3 0 0
Send for Splendid New Illustrated Catalogue containing
6000 Selections to choose from. Electric Fans, with
Battery, £5 ; Electric Bike Lamps, 21s ; Flash Lights,
Scarf Pin Lights, 10s 6d ; Vapour Bath Cabinets, 20s; &c.,
Free.
ecoias can be posted to any address. Machines care-
fully packed ana o warded to any part of Australasia.
REEVES & CO.,
KING WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
I’ll Try It. 1
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
(Japillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Remit.
CRAIG &. AITKEIM, N.s •W. Barber’s Supply
House, 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
This New
Fashionable
Mount,
TWO TIPS WITH
OSPREYS,
In black, white, cream,
or black tipped with
white,
3-
THE BUNCH.
Post Free.
We make this special offer to
advertise our
Ostrich Tips.
Write To-day. Send Postal Note.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
Mention Tub Bulletin.
&
V*
v.
It’s an easy job for the barber to
part the hair on a head like this.
It’s just as easy to prevent baldness
if you only do the right thing.
Baldness is almost always a sure
sign of neglect; it is the story of neg-
lected dandruff.
Dandruff is untidy, unnecessary, and
unhealthy.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
cures dandruff and prevents baldness.
You save your hair and you are spared
the annoyance of untidy clothing.
It also stops falling of the hair, and
makes the hair grow thick and long.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer’s Hair Vigor,
Preoared by Dr. J. C. Ayer& Co., Lowell; Mass., U.S.A.
Skins Soft&White
BY USING
*> L .<
iV-b
Healthy^M^
Complexions Preserved.
kx
Rupture:
The great Amercan In-
vention— “ Dr. PIERCE’S
Magnetic Elastic Truss”
is accomplishing the most
marvellous cures. Noth-
ing like it ever before
known. Reliable retain-
er and actual curative for
Rupture. Gives ease and
comfort. Established over a quarter of a Cen-
tury its fame has extended to all parts of the
world. If ruptured investigate at once. Send
a stamp for price list and Booklets on Rupture.
Address: - Magnetic Elastic Truss C0., 206 Post
St.. San Francisco,U.S A., or W. H. Soul & Co.,
Australian Agents, 160 Pitt St., Sydney. N.S. w!
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Seourity of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C. P. (combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand,
-A.t Lowest Current Rates o±* Interest-
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per cent,
of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
rectors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker; J. Abbott, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq., M.P.
General Manager and Actuary— Bichard Teeoe, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.A.
II?AD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 108,
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-sfc.,
SYDNEY.
&3t Send for a
Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Eight Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER. 130 Sussex-street.
W MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for Catalogue. Agents wanted.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agent*
New South Wales—
M. RUTTY & GO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland—
Thoo. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Philp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania—
Watohorn Bros.,
Hobart
rfohn McKenzie A Do.,
Launceston
New Zealand —
D. Benjamin & Co.
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christchurch.
WINCHESTER
MODEL 1900 SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE
m
HIS rifle sells at a price within reach of almost every-
body’s pocketbook, but it is made with the same care and
exactness as Winchester rifles that cost five times as
much. The name “Winchester” on this rifle is a
guarantee in itself of its quality. The Model 1900 is a
hammerless take-down, and can be taken apart easily
and quickly. It is made with an 18-inch round barrel,
fitted with open front and rear sights. It shoots .22 Short and .22
Long Rim-Fire cartridges, and Bullet Breech caps. These cartridges cost
so little that one can afford io shoot as many times as he likes as often
as he likes. Some makes of .22 Caliber rifles are a few pence cheaper,
but they are a great deal cheaper in quality than they are in price.
We don’t try to see how cheap we can make this rifle, but how good.
FOR SALE BY ALL IRONMONGERS
WE WINCHFSTFP GOODS.
M‘LEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd
ELIZABETH ST., HELBOURNE ; GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
~ -H
auth
OZINE
BOX
ft / ~
r 3 a
»
Crozine Blacking
is a waterproof polish that produces a brilliant and permanent
gloss, which will not rub off. Shoes polished with “ Crozine
Blacking ” wear long, because it is an oil dressing, which softens
the leather. “ Crozine Blacking ”is guaranteed to be absolutely
free from all harmful substances, and will be found to be the
most satisfactory dressing made for all walking boots and shoes
Sold almost everywhere. If not found, write at once to
C. L. HAUTHAWAY £» SONS, Boston, Mass., IJ.SA.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
King Barwon.
With tresses in disorder,
With ravening, reaching arms
I cross the trembling border
To waste your western farms ;
To steal your sheep and cattle—■
The poor dumb beasts that be
Too weak to give me battle,
Too dull to turn and flee !
Ho! Stockmen ! Mount and muster before my
hoofs a-thud!
I come to sweep your lowlands! I —Barwon, in
full flood !
No man shall turn my forces;
No power shall stay my steeds,'
The tawny-maned cream horses
Reined with brown river-weeds !
I lash them south before me—■
I flog them east and west—
Fierce as the storm that bore me
They leap to my behest!
My anger points their pathway ! My lust is i
their blood !
And proud they bear their burden—King Barwon
in full flood !
come with roaring thunder
That stills the whimpering wind
The plains I trample under,
And tear, and toss behind.
Among the garden cedars
And through the bush belars
I flog my foaming leaders
Before my chariot-bars.
The rains have swelled tneir sinews ! The storms
have fired their blood !
Now, fly, ye fear-wan settlers! King Barwon
rides full-flood !
* our steamers, warned of trouble,
Toss by your topmost trees,
And tie their flood-ropes double
Ten feet above their quays !
Your skiffs, torn from the rid jea.
Shall lead my squadrons down,
And leap the white Bourke bridges
And scare Menindie town.
High-piled on your verandahs, flood-rack and
river-mud !
My sword upon your gateways ! King Barwon
rides full-flood !
With roaring ranks extended
I hold your North teamsstiyed,
And hear in starlight splendid
Your tinkling fear betrayed !
Your drovers, South with cattle,
Break wire and turn aside—
They know my line-of-battle,
The Barwon—ten miles wide !
I chase their nibbling thousands ! I choke their
mobs in mud !
I leave their white bones bleaching to mark my
path—full flood !
By crumpled hut and railing,
By twisted house and yard,
By wives and weanlings wailing,
My hate —ye foes ! —strikes hard
Now, by the storm that bore me!
Ye risk your lives who stay !
Swift to the range before me i
While still, there lies a way ! j
So ! gently, gently, horses ! Pride of my ramping
stud !
What foes shall stand before us—King Barwon in
full flood ?
WILL H. OGILVIE.
The Wreck.
The bare dunes cry of a mystery,
Where the rotten ribs protrude.
Like a dead man’s hand from the shifting sand
Stretched back to the silent wood ;
And the lank red weed, when the seas recede,
Drops foam, as a hand drops blood.
When the red gleams swim on the outer rim
Of the sea, and the night-ghouls fly,
The truculent tide in the sea-gorge wide
Rolls grey ’neath the rough grey sky ;
On the tumbled bar some ragged star
Reflects like a drowned man’s eye.
And the old wreck calls when the damp dusk I
falls
On the swamp, and the slow mists creep
To the sedge-girt pond and the fen beyond
From the chill of the heavy deep ;
And a muttered word and a curse half-heard
Pass out as a sigh in sleep.
The blackened bulk of the skeleton hulk
In a blacker night is lost,
And the querulous wind in the tamarind
Is the sob of a soul-worn host
From the foetid pit where the dead men sit,
Who died on a haunted coast.
The brown skull roils by the brown sand holes,
And bleaches and bakes and dries,
And the dry jaws shake, and the stealthy snake
Crawls through the sightless eyes ;
And the rising tide fills the sea gorge wide
Where the lost ship’s lost crew lies.
J. A. ALLAN.
“ Yfisa ” : Fiji is the paradise of spiders.
During the rainy season the houses swarm with
them. During the night they meander all over
the house, capturing and slaying cockroaches.
From the bedside to the bathroom in the morning
one crosses a field of dead cockroaches. But soon
each crack and hole vomits myriads of small ants,
and the cockroach corpses are tugged away to the
ants’ larders. The weird, pink spiders, with
lavender eyes, which the fusel-oil drinker in the
bush shanty tries to catch and put in bottles, are
found here in reality, lurking in one’s shoes, or
clinging to the bath-towels.


Buy a
KODAK
and enter
for the . •
Kodak
Amateur
f
Photographic
Competition.
Over £7O * n Prizes,
Full particulars on application to
KODAK Ltd.,
284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Pl'ease mention this Paper,
ORNAMENTAL nair.
Naturally Surly Fringes, 4s 6d to 80s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 Bs. Send Pattern ol Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders reoeive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
CFLA.XG & iVITKEKT,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Bydney.
EVERY MAH IS
More or less interested in the curative powers of
MEDICAL GALVANISM and the proper method of
applying: this wonderful agent. Before purchasing 1
Electric Belts or Batteries send for our valuable FREE
BOOK entitled “THE MODERN TREATMENT OF
DISEASE BY ELECTRICITY.” It will tell you what
you ought to know, and may save you time, money
and disappointment. Address—
ARTHUR HALE & SON,
44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Too Stout
I was for years ; bv chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduceame from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
a id
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. •
Address— A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rNLOROPyNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BEOHCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &G -> bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNE.
IBE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
"If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say "Chlokodyne. I never travel
without it, and its,general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
PHOTOS
From Life, for Lovers of Art, Beauty, and Chic ;
Carefully Selected Assortments, Cabinets, or
Stereos, with Illustrated Catalogues f|,nd Minia-
tures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s. Money Order or Cheque
on London.
English, Freneh, and German Rare Books
Explain wishes and requirements, and full satisfaction
will be obtained.
R. GENNERT,
89c Faubourg St., Martin, Paris, France.
London Bankers:
L. and SOUTH WESTERN BANK LTD., Head Office.
WOOL. PRODUCE. CRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
ACT ./VS SEJLLIKTGr BROKERS ONRY.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
'(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
will be 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb • 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wods realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
, under Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing. Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
BALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, eto., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and fulkpwrticulars as to Charges, Advances, eto., etc.
AGENTS FOB. McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney
(Corner of
Clarence Street)
19, 21, 23 King Street, M:ellbou.rne.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES . . .
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pumps, Turbine Fans.
(Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
Messrs. GREENWOOD & BATLEY LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors, Pumps, etc.
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
in<...i,.t»rt Cables, Wires, Tapes, eto.
m
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
cure-alls.
Vigor and Strength ” h °
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 1886, has so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your fellow man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and haw the
old doctor diagnose your case.
Seels, tlxe Trutb, it costa 3VTotliing!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, cor. Russell & Collins Sts., Melbourne.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
RMBRACIX3
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book op Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new wovk, Is posted. Camille, Is 3d.
Secret History op the Court of England, 1/6 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, IS 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free. I
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. S appiio, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather hound, my price, 15s post paid
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big* Book
Catalogue post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st, Sydney
Dr. J. W. GIBBS’
. , Electric Massage Rollers . .
For use on Face and Body.
For NERVOUS HEADACHES,
NEURALGIA and RHEUMATISM
—a specific. Removes Wrinkles.
Gold, 21/- Silver, 16/-
Post Free. Pamphlets Free.
AMERICAN AGENCY COMPANY,
Box 440, G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
Sore Eyes I Blight!
USED 300 YEARS.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
Never fails. Restores Eyelashes .
HAD FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
‘‘HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT.”
Ask your Chemist for this little book.
,’S
' r °A®^ Ct
P^ 0t O
X\^
o\\
Ett ca ' J rte ttv* to ;
»* « a' l4 fo ids-
-' 04 ’ at v4 C
Co»S 4 ~o t \o
,\d V***
*
GOUT
PILLS
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
“Don’t shout”
•• I hear you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
•" How?’ Oh some
thingnew— The Wilson v
Common-sense Ear- -
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now, you can't see them ■,
-they're invisible. 1 wouldn't
know I bad them in myseli.
only that I hear all right."
Jhe Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other de-
vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
CHAtfIIBS, 229-231 C«B»ns- M., Help.,
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
With Patent RUBBER EE El
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English
American and made to order
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, dec.
DENYER BROS.. Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
$
ASTHMACURE
ERIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Fop Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut'short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GRIMAULT & Co., Paris. Sold by allChemistß.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B. —Insist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre <fc Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in tlje Australian Colonies.


A Quiet
•® • ®
£
Four Crdwi
Whisky
wm
N
mu
Jr*
®V---
L
A LIVER’S VAGARIES.
Nervous Weakness and Exhaustion.
A Great Change for the Better.
The Case of
Mrs £. SHEWANJ
(B? OCR REPORTER.)
Mrs. Elizabeth Siiewan. of No. 8 Little
Ed warti-street, Pyrmont, was recently in-
terviewed by a press representative, and
gave her views on various matters of in-
terest.
“ I am given to understand that you
created a great surprise amongst your
neighbours a little while back,” said the
newspaper man. “ Will you kindly tell me
what it was all about ? ”
“ With the utmost pleasure,” was the
hearty reply. “It was by shaking off a
long-standing comp aint that I surprised
everybody, myself included, for I had been
suffering for many years from dyspepsia.
The reason why mv recovery was unex-
pected was because I had been under the
care of several doctors, taking their medi-
cines till I positively loathed the sight of it,
besides being treated as an out-door patient
at a hospital for five months, and no good
came from all the physics which Had been
administered to me. What else could I
think than that I was incurable ? And to
be in such a hopeless predicament was really
awful. Earth and heaven were both blotted
out of my existence, as the inetfioacy of the
medical treatment I had received left me
alone in the world with nothing but physi-
cal suffering to endure. For years there
was scarcely a day passed but that 1 felt
intensely tired and so weary and weak that
I had to let my work go undone because I
was unable to do it, and often I could hardly
get about for the terrible pains in nay chest
and between my shoulders. |lt seemed as if
something heavy was preventing me from
getting my breath, and if the weather was
at all warm the smothering sensations were
frightfully distressing. The whole of my
system was out of order, the consequence
being that I was hardly ever without a de-
pressing headache, and a feeling as if my
eyes were swollen also troubled me. When-
ever I made an effort to do a little work the
exertion made me feel lightheaded, and at
times I was afraid to go outside the door on
account of giddiness, which used to seize me
and make me powerless to stand on my feet.
Another reason why I deemed it prudent to
keep as still as possible was that any exer-
tion gave me palpitation of the heart. It
might be through getting up from a chair
rather too quickly, or, perhaps, through a
little agitation caused by sounds in the
street that the palpitations came on ; but in
every instance I felt greatly distressed, to
say nothing of the fears about what might
be wrong with me which entered my mind.
So many people in this country die from
various affections of the heart that anything
wrong with that organ is naturally alarm-
ing, but I now know that it was my liver
which cause., those serious symptoms to
appear. ”
“ Were there any other liver symptoms in
evidence ?"
“ Well, the gall-like taste in my mouth
and the furred condition of my tongue
pointed to the fact that my internal organs
required renovating, whi'e to digest my food
was an utter impossibility. Try what I
would in the form of light diet, it was all
the same, after eating being violent spasms
of wind in the stomach which almost drove
me frantic, and often I felt inclined to roll
on the floor in the excess of agony, which
was making my life insupportable. The
food I had eaten was not taken from choice,
because I had no appetite for it, and it was
this continuous loss of appetite which
grieved me, as I knew that I could never get
strong so long as I was unable to take
nourishment to give me strength. And as
my vitality wasted away, so did my loins
and limbs ache. I felt as sore as if I had
been beaten from head to foot, and no won-
der that my bones were racked with aches,
for my body and brain seldom got any rest.
Sleepless nights I passed in profusion, al-
though if I slept at all I dreamed in such a
terrifying manner that wakefulness would
have been far preferable. What a nervous
wreck I became, to be sure ! My nerves
were so weak and highly strung that if any-
body knocked at the door I nearly jumped
out of my chair, and then it took them a
long time to get steady again. A dread of
something happening tormented my mind
both day and night, but did I not have good
reason to be like that,- considering that m*y
disease stood defiantly against my medi-
cines ? ”
“As you are so well now, Mrs. She wan,
that statement is scarcely correct.”
“I mean up to the time of taking
Clements Tonic ; then everything changed
for the better. I made a great mistake in
not heeding the advice of many of my friends
who had repeatedly urged me to take
Clements Tonic ; but I thought if doctors
could not cure me, nothing could. at
last I became persuaded, Clements Tonic
soon showed what a mistaken notion this
was, for after taking two or three bottles I
felt quite different, my improved appearance
being the subject of general comment
amongst my neighbours. The appetite I
gained through the medium of Clements
Tonic was, to say the least of it, remark-
able. I was always ready for my meals,
and how could I enjoy them ? That dull
and heavy feeling after eating passed away,
and when my food ceased turning to wind
and creating pain, I could soon go about in
comfort amt do a little work, for I always
woke up feeling fresh and vigorous after the
sound sleep which came through using
Clements Tonic. In time my chest and
head pains disappeared, and nothing gave
me greater satisfaction than the banishment
of my heart troubles. I could walk about
quite briskly without there being any pal-
pitation or dizziness, the only inconvenience
which I experienced after three weeks’ use
of Clements Tonic being from nervousness,
for I still trembled a little if I had been ex-
erting myself very much ; but in a few days
later that trouble was entirely remedied,
and it has never come back again. My
digestive system wa3 thoroughly restored to
order, and from that day to this I must say
that the weary aches in my limbs have been
strangers. The acute pains in my head and
shoulders were also carried away by
Clements Tonic, which regulated my in-
ternal organs to a nicety. Such a catalogue
of human suffering as mine was could not
have been more severe, yet Clements Tonic
relieved me of every pain, besides pouring
into my system the invigorating and disease-
curing qualities it possessed, so that I was
left with the full vigour and health of my
younger days. The return of that alacrity
and cheerfulness of spirits that I was wont
to have made my recovery complete, and I
am not likely to forget that it is to Clements
Tonic that my gratitude is owing.”
“ V\ ill you make that admission through
the press ? ”
“ Willingly, for I recognise the fact that
many people are suffering in despair like I
was, and for their benefit you may publish
my testimony in any way you choose.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Em/.abetii Shbwan, of 8 Little Edward-street,
Pyrmont, Sydney, in the State of; New South
Wales, Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly
and sincerely declare that I have carefully read
the annexed document, consisting of four folios,
and consecutively numbered from one to four, and
that it contains and is a true and faithful account
of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic ; and also
contains my full permission to publish in any way my
statements-which I give voluntarily, without re-
ceiving any payment; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Pyrmont, this tenth
day of March, one thousand nine hundred and two,
before me,
JAS. MoDOUGALL, J.P.
Discovered by Christopher Mudd, F.L.S., F.R.G.S., M.B.Ph.S., London, Botanist to the King of
England during His Majesty’s Indian Tour.
Eczema OLEAG
Cures this terrible itching complaint.
Not a grease. Does not stain the linen.
Full directions each jar. Jars, 4/6 ; post, 4/10
Used in the Melbourne Homoeopathic
Hospital with success.
ANTHOSsHAIR
Not a Grease, purely Botanical.
Written testimony from well-known medical men.
One bottle in daily use lasts about A months.
“Anthos” prevents Hair falling out, Dandruff,
and Irritation. Bottles, 3/6 ; posted, 3/3.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND
Melbourne : Foy & Gibson and all Chemists.
Sydney : Pattinson & Co. (all branches).
Park & Son, 156 Pitt Street.!
Depot: M. H. Horwitz, 34 Pitt Street.
New Zealand: C.'L. Best, Ponsonby, Auckland.
Adelaide: Harris & Kemp, Arcade.
Brisbane: Taylor & Colledge Ltd.
Perth: Foy & Gibson.
Colonial Representative : Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
m
L
ime
The basis of which is “Montserrat ’’ Lime-Fruit Juice.
Far Superior to
all otHer fauces.
AGENTS—EiWott Bros. Ltd., Connell & Co-, 0. Mitchell & Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES ne Be, ‘ *z* °' SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL ELECTRIC
COMPANY,
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, Melbourne and Sydney.
Sales of Thomson Recording
Wattmeters
Adopted by the Victorian Government as
Standard. General Electric! ncandescent
Lamps, Motors, Dynamos, and all other
Electric Machinery and Supplies are also
Standard and The Best.


«8
1
I
m
a-
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co.,
SYDNEY.
s y stem °f paying for Room only and
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
GORDON MARE, Secretary,
W. AIKEN, Manager,
28 Years in the Establishment.
15ct Cold FORGET-ME-NOT
BROOCH, set with
6 Pearls & 6 Turquoises, 35/-
30 „ 6 „ 55/-
or set with all Pearls.
The Ever-Popular COLD TWIN SWALLOW BROOCH.
9ct. Plain, 10/6, 14/6 ; Smaller Size, 9/- per pair.
Set with Pearls and Ruby or Sapphire Pastes, 21/- pair.
15ct. Plain Swallows or Doves, 20/- pair. Post Free.
5/- and 5/6.
Without Heart, 4/-.
Kindly send for
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
Opticians and Art Jewellers, 90 King--street, Sydney
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
Old Battle Axe
Brand
is
known
and
appreciated
all the
World
over.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
I
WE
&•
&
*
C W
C*
IM*
o*>
oO«
cA
• 'TT*.'-.■>‘.•.'2. vii&r'i*
f*s*y
f.
i;- -7r'
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica
tion to The Manager.
m
m
e
WIGHTMA N’S
BEACONSFSELP HOTEL
Beaconsfield Parade, St. Kilda, Melbourne.
piRST-OLASS ACCOMMODATION for Visitors and Per-
■ manent Boarders. Situated in the healthiest part of
St. Kilda, facing the sea. Hot and Cold Sea Baths. Fifteen
minutes from Melbourne—tram or train. Reasonable Tariff.
Special terms for families and permanent boarders.
Telephone 65 Windsor Exchange.
THE BULLETIN RECITER
BY EIGHTY (80)
BULLETIN BARDS.
With us krations by “ Hop,” N. Lindsay, A. J. Fisher, F. Leist
Dw H. Souter, and H. McCrae. In handsome Cloth, decorated.
Sole Distributing Agents— PRICE 55. ; POSTAGE 4d.
Edwards, Dunlop & Co,, Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane,
MACHINERY
MERCHANTS,
WHOLESALE IRONMONGERS,
And Importers of
Engines, Boilers, Pumps, Wood-
working Machines, Engineers’
Supplies, Blacksmith and
Coachbuilders’ Requisites, Pipes
and Fittings, Boiler Tubes, Gun
Metal and Brassware for Steam
and Water, Household and
Builders’ Ironmongery, Agri-
cultural Implements, Horse
Gears, Chaff Cutters, &o.
m
'A
Machinery Store
FF|C£
ORISBAN
BSB
o~k0 ~k-
SMELLIE&C
Bous
Store,
ALLEY
*sS5
[lorth Queensland BrancH
mmsi
North Queensland Warehouse:
Stanley & Sturt Sts., Townsville.
New Broad St. House, London, E.C.
f AGENTS FOR
ROBEY & CO., Portable
i Steam Engines.
IW. B. HAIGH & CO., Saw-
I mill Machinery.
1 0 WYNNE’S Centrifugal Pumps
i PEARN’S Manchester Steam
Pumps.
DUPLEX Steam Pumps.
SCOTT’S Steel Mining Ropes.
FRANK VIAL & SON Leather
Belting.
WAUKEGAN Barb Wire.
PLANET JR. Implements.
AER MOTOR Windmills.
KEROSENE OIL ENGINES.
THE NEW HIGH GRADE 3G*IL-XJGr TOBACCO.
World
Renowned
TRY
s now supplied IN PLUG FORM in addition to Cut
! The Highest Grade Tobacco sold within the Commonwealth. TRY IT!


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 23.—N0. 1180.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1902 .
Price 6d.
NOT WANTED.
COHEN BULL (to the white soldier) : “AH, I SEE YOU’VE FINISHED HIM. THANKS. YOU CAN GO HOME; MY FRIENDS HERE CAN
DO ALL THAT IS NECESSARY NOW.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Walks.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBER 1 * *
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ••• ® ®
Quarterly ... ... ••• 0 6 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Weslvalia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland l*
Owing to the imposition ofl\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to 3 F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
'The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
dippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specilied and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that toe
are not responsible Jar its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in KlaoJe and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa— Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, 22 Hout St., Capetown ; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban ; Argus
Printing Co. , Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.
Hong Kong.— . Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
China.— . Brewer and Co., 31 Wanking Road, Shanghai.
TTuTZfe'alleZzai.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1902.
The Irvine Government’s Slimy Devices.
The Victorian electoral campaign has started
in earnest, and the Irvine-Shiels-Bent
Ministry is going on its cloven hoofs up and
down the State, and dragging its demoralised
tail to and fro on the surface thereof, as ‘ ‘ the
great Retrenchment Government.” In a
sense the Irvine-Shiels-Bent Government
is wise as well as slimy in its day and gener-
ation. The Parliament which it closed up
so violently a few days ago had another year
to run, and if the Ministry had faced the
electors a year hence instead of to-day many
things would have happened in the interval.
The Irvine Government, by the end of 1903,
would either be the Ministry which had pro-
duced another great and disastrous deficit,
which would have made it unpopular with all
classes ; or the Ministry which had imposed
a general land-tax, and possibly an extra
income-tax and an absentee-tax and addi-
tional probate duties, and retrenched heavily
as well, in order to avert the deficit, and
these taxes would have made it unpopular
with the class on whose support it principally
relies. It would either have broken with its
own crowd by really attempting to re-enact
the Factories Act and by really trying to
reform the House of Landlords, or have
quarrelled with the other crowd and shown
itself a hopelessly unreliable combination by
not doing these things. The Government
which can get itself re engaged for three
years on the strength of what it is going
to do has a much easier job than the one
which does things first and applies for a re-
engagement afterwards. The Irvine Cabinet
started its new Factories Act, its Parlia-
mentary Reform scheme and its Re-
trenchment policy. Then it closed up
before it offended anybody by carrying
these measures, or anybody else by not
carrying them. -At the psychological
moment, it came in out of the wet.
• * * •
It goes to the country now as the brilliant
Ministry which is going to get a quart out of
a pint pot. According to Treasurer Shiels,
the deficit will probably prove to be as much
as £700,000, and the Government appeals to
the electors as the brilliant combination
which found this out, and the strong com-
bination which is not alarmed at the dis-
covery, and the wise combination which is
going to put it all to rights. It has
endeavoured to partly relieve the feelings of
the democratic section of the community
by not proposing such heavy retrenchment
as it might have done, and it has appealed to
the soul of the affluent section of the com-
munity by not proposing a general land-tax—
in fact, by not definitely proposing any
new taxation whatever ; and it has appealed
to all sections by its courage in facing the
awful financial situation—though all it has
really done so far consists of the fact that
Bent has used coarse language to the railway
employees. Hardly anybody has noticed so
far that Irvine and Co., up to now, only
propose to provide for £332,000 out of a
possible £700,000 shortage, and as the bulk
of the retrenchment proposals can only
extend over about seven months of the year
at best, the actual saving is likely to be much
less than that. If the general election had
been postponed till after next June, the
public would have noticed the fact by
that time, so the Irvine Ministry wisely
applies for a three years’ re-engagement
at once. Its miserably inadequate savings
are only proposed for one year, and
what is to be done next year Irvine
doesn’t say. Probably, he doesn’t know.
Therefore, he is well-advised to ask for a
steady job and a good long lease of office
before the question turns up. And the
shocking problem about meeting the
rest of the deficit—whether by £300,000
or £400,000 of extra taxation, or by
doubling or trebling the present retrench-
ment proposals, or the worse problem about
not meeting the deficit at all, but having,
after all, as large a shortage as Peacock
had, will be fairly before the public in a very
few months. By letting the late Parliament
run its course Irvine might have gone to the
country as the Strong Man who had grappled
with this huge financial spectre and laid it to
rest. He didn’t crave for that honor,
however. He prefers to be sent back with a
solid majority and three years’ breathing
time as the Strong Man who is going to
grapple with the spectre.
* * *
Irvine, by his own showing, is a hideous
financial fraud. According to his own
Treasurer’s figures he will probably, after all
his retrenchments are effected, have as bad a
deficit as that which wrecked Peacock last
year. Unless Shiels’ estimates are a huge
imposture designed to bring discredit on his
predecessor, there is still looming either a
great amount more retrenchment, a great deal
more taxation, or a great smash. If Irvine
hadn’t rushed to the country before Shiels’
budget was delivered he would have had to
take one of these alternatives with him, for
the budget must have gone into figures, and
figures are disastrous to the pint-pot variety
of Government. His vague promise to save
the country by getting a quart out of the
vessel above-mentioned would have gone to
pieces in the light of actual statistics. He
would have appeared either as a shiftless in-
capable, or a man with a startling programme
of new taxation, or a person with a highly
unpopular scheme for wholesale and retail
retrenchment. But if he can secure a reliable
majority now, as the man with the pint pot
in his strong right hand, it. won’t matter so
much when the revelation does come. Irvine
will be comfortably fixed by then.
* * * «P
A month hence, or two months hence,
other awkward things would have happened.
The House of 48 Rich Landlords would have
rejected the Factories Act and the Council re-
form scheme by then, and Irvine would have
been asked onall sides what steps he was going
to take to force the arrogant four dozen Tories
to surrender. If he said he was going to take
no steps at all, his career as an alleged
reformer would be at an end, and he could
no longer cadge for the democratic vote. If
he said he was going to take such measures
as would bring an arrogant and grossly selfish
oligarchy to its knees, he would thereby
break with his Tory following for good, and
throw all his own traditions overboard.
Moreover, he would have to specify the steps
he proposed taking, and that is a matter
which requires the brain of a bigger warrior
than anybody in the Irvine combination.
As things are, he simply promises to send
up these measures, and speaks as if their
acceptance by the Council was a matter of
course. If asked what steps he will take
if they are rejected, he can always say
that it is wrong to assume that the House
of Landlords will resist the will of the people
—just as if the House of Landlords ever did
anything else ; and appeal to the community
not to breed strife by premature threats ;
and assure them vaguely, as the man who is
going to get a quart out of a pint pot, that if
the occasion arises he won’t be found want-
ing. He can say, in a spirit of generosity,
that as the Council didn’t reject the Fac-
tories Act last session, it is wrong to cast
aspersions on that body, which is probably
better than it looks. Also, he can allude to
the spirit of “ British fair play.” Irvine’s
astuteness in arranging to be re-elected
before the battle, as the general who is going
to win, is praiseworthy—in quarters where
that kind of astuteness is appreciated.
* * * *
So Irvine appeals to the Democratic sec-
tion of Victoria as the man who proved his
sincerity by introducing a new Factories
Act and a most valuable measure for the
reform of the Upper House, and who can be
relied upon, by reason of that record, to do
the square thing again. And the Tory sec-
tion, knowingthatit will rejectboth measures,
doesn’t object. He appeals to the Tories
again as the man who doesn’t propose
a general land-tax, and to the Democrats as
a man who has at least made the retrench-
ment scheme less severe than it might be ;
and to all sections as the person who is going
to square the finances without imposing
many new burdens, by making £200,000 or
£300,000 of savings pay off £600,000
or £700,000 of shortage. And he gives his
cordial assurance that he won’t be afraid to
borrow plenty of money, whereby he holds
out to all parties gratifying prospects of a
new boom. It is all a poor, silly little bag
of tricks, but the public is accustomed to
being fooled by such bags and similar con-
tents ; and the prospects of the Irvine
Government coming back with a strong
majority are not at all bad.
• • • •
As a matter of fact, unless a strong and
honest financial genius arises, the prospects
of Victoria are not very far removed from
desperate. It plunged into the Boer war
without making any provision whatever to
cover the extra outlay, and now the war is
over, and the Drayton Grange is back, and
the Jingo enthusiasm is as dead as last year’s
bubonic rat, but the sordid bill remains. It
granted old-age pensions—the one bright
item in its recent political history—without
making any provision to supply the money.
Federation demolished its border customs
revenue, and no one had the courage or
honesty to propose the imposition of new
taxes to replace the ones thus extinguished.
The abolition of the tea duty and a few other
imposts reduced its revenue from foreign
customs, and no one had the courage or
honesty to propose new taxes to make this
loss good either. Under a hideously foolish
Act, passed by a Tory Government a genera-
tion ago, Victoria pays close on £350,000 a
year incivilservice pensions—an outlay which,
in proportion to population, almost equals the
whole military and naval expenditure of
three of the Great Powers of Europe. There
was a deficit last year of £437,000. There
is an anticipated deficit this year of nearly
£700,000, which is not half covered, even
on paper, by the Irvine Government’s
“reform” proposals. The biggest public
asset, the railways, are notoriously going to
wreck and rust for want of sufficient repairs.
Every year a larger amount of loan money
is being used for revenue purposes in order
to disguise the situation, and though, in
this respect, Victoria is not nearly so bad
yet as any of the other States, still its posi-
tion is bad enough. If the Victorians
had the courage to tax themselves as the
English people do, there need be no deficit,
no misappropriation of loan money for
unproductive works, and, with reasonable
economy, no borrowing at all. But it is
the custom here to speak as if Australians
were a species of Chosen People whom it is
sacrilege to expect to pay taxes as other
people do, and a certain carefully-nursed
and petted melancholy and self-pity settles
down on the community when it is expected
to pay its way. Great Britain added 10s.
per head per annum to its previously heavy
taxation during the recent war trouble.
Irvine and Co. have once threatened, in a
far-off way, to add about Is. 2d. per head to
Victoria’s very light taxation to meet the
present crisis, but they added that it was
seriously to be hoped that so stupendous a
calamity would be avoided, and nothing has
since been heard about the subject. In fact,
the present policy of the Irvine Govern-
ment is to get back with a majority that will
make it reasonably safe for three years
before anything very definite is heard about
any subject.
The N.S.W. Opposition.
The change of leadership in the N.S.W. Opposi-
tion is not in itself of very great importance.
Opposition boss Carruthers is only another
Opposition boss Lee, with a perky self-confidence
instead of a solemn self-confidence, and the
Opposition policy will still remain as before—to
get into office somehow, anyhow. But the change
indicates certain tendencies in State politics which
are of great moment. When the consummation
of Federation left N.S.W. Parliament with
diminished powers, it also left it with more free-
dom and more revenue than it ever had 4 before.
The transfer to another arena of the wearisome
fiscal issue, and of other points of govern-
ment, the passing of a tariff which, whilst
it gave a greatly increased revenue to
N.S. Wales, also imparted a very distinct stimulus
to its manufacturing industries —all combined to
give a uniquely favorable opportunity for a State
politician with definitely progressive and yet
economical ideas. The matters still remaining in
State, as differentiated from Federal control,
were, after all, the most vitally important to the
citizen. There was ample scope for progressive work,
and—unique circumstance —there was enough
money for progressive work. As a rule, when the
opportunity is given to a new man to try his hand
at reform, it is because a course of extravagance
and muddle has reduced the finances to an almost
desperate state. But John See had the oppor-
tunity and the money—an increased revenue pro-
vided for him by the Federal tariff which,
properly used, might have worked marvels.
And there are indications that at first John
SEE'had some idea of carrying on upon reform
lines. He broke away definitely from the
disgraceful newspaper bond***' 1 into which Mr.
Bill Lyne had led the Cabinet, and pave soma
promise of shaping as a strong sane man. But
that soon changed. When he was Dibbs’ Trea-
surer, John See had learned the fatal gift of com-
pliance. As Premier, he was the follower rather
than the leader of stronger spirits in his party,
and was soon involved in that career of wild
extravagance which is only now being curbed by
stem necessity.
* * • *
When Premier See felt first the pressure of
various unruly sections in his following, he had an
idea of finding a way to comparative independence
in a coalition. Carrutheks, perhaps the most
representative man on the old Freetrade side of
House, was willing, and a coalition Cabinet
seemed certain until the Freetrade press put a
veto on the proposal. There was ridiculous talk
of “ preserving the fiscal issue ” in State politics,
of “ keeping intact the great Freetrade party ” in
N.S.W. —for what purpose except that it might
be kept under the thumb of the Freetrade papers
it is hard to guess—and confident predictions that
Premier See “would not last two months.”
Because he had favored the coalition proposals
Carruthers was debarred from the leadership of
the alleged “Freetrade” party, and the painfully
ordinary Lee was chosen as its chief. But John
See and Co. kept in. No matter what its mis-
takes or extravagances, the See Cabinet held the
fort. Now the Freetrade press sees that the old
game is up—that it is impossible to keep a great
Freetrade party going which can have no more
effect on Freetrade than the Grand Lama of
Thibet. So Lee resigns, and Carruthers steps
in, and it is officially announced that the fiscal
issue is sunk in the deep, deep sea, with a 10-ton
boulder at its heels to keep it down, and that the
Opposition is willing to welcome Protectionists to
its fold as well as Freetraders.
* • * *
And what next ? It may confidently be ex-
pected that Mr. Carruthers will first make a
strenuous effort to turn Mr. See out, and failing
that, will suggest a coalition. As parties (or
rather groups and sections) are in the N.S.W.
Assembly, a coalition seems to be the certain final
development ; a coalition of the “strong men” of
the Protectionist party—the strong men whose
political muscles are as bulging hills of iron
through the active exercise they have taken in
carrying this country to the pop shop, and the
“ strong men ” of the Freetrade party, who have
similarly-developed sinews. Premier See and his
Owe’Sullivan, with their wide and varied experi-
ence of borrowing and spending, will sit in the
same tent with Carruthers and Brunker, whose
abilities in the same direction are equally well-
known, with hearts that borrow as one and minds
bent upon the same 1.0. U.
• * * ♦
This, in one sense, will be bad for the Labor
Party and the radicals generally in the N.S.W.
Assembly. A coalition, which was independent
of the Labor Party, would not tolerate any dicta-
tion from that quarter. It would count noses care-
fully, and, seeing the safety of such an attitude,
would take on an air of lofty dignity. Not only
would the Labor Party find its proposals for
future labor legislation treated with contempt; it
would probably have to stand by and see much
that has been already gained jettisoned. To that
extent the coalition would be a bad thing for the
Radical cause in State politics—the cause which is
to an extent (though not to anything like a satis-
factory extent) represented by the Labor party.
But in other directions there would be a great
gain. The road would be cleared for the forma-
tion of a genuine Radical reform party—an
organisation without a single blank I 0 U in its
pocket-book, or a single concession swindle hidden
in its coat-tail. The Labor party could come
forward and fill the gap. It could do so. Perhaps
it would do so ; perhaps not. But certainly some-
body would ; for the instinct of honesty is not
dead, even in Parliament. This much would be
secured. All the old extravagant mob, the fakirs
of finance, the pawnshop brigade, would be
gathered under one banner. Hitherto they have
been ranged under two banners and alternately
held office, the one in opposition always yelling
dismally at the dishonesty of the one in power,
and then, when brought by a turn of the wheel
on to the Treasury benches, continuing the same
dishonest practices.
* * * *
The Labor Party in N.S.W. has in the past
been a sort of condottiere force, selling its support
to the one gang or the other for concessions of
labor legislation, and foolishly neglecting to insist
that these concessions should be made financially
stable. (When the coalition comes it will very
possibly find that the State “ cannot afford ” many
of these hardly-wrung measures and the Labor
Party will see the vanity then of neglecting the
financial side of reform). In pursuit of this
policy it has held the candle for some strange
devils, and assisted much wicked wantonness of
administration. With a coalition it will have no
more excuse for supporting evil that good
may come and it will be forced to defin-
itely declare for economy and reform, or to
sink its identity entirely in the mass of the
coalition’s followers. Whatever the decision of
the Labor Party, the State would benefit in a little
while by the formation of some party with honesty
as its platform. The Bulletin would welcome a
coalition as defining the issues and giving one neck
to all the old extravagance, ineptitude and corrup-
tion —and it feels inclined, therefore, to view with
a kindly eye Carruthers’ accession to his new
dignity.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Next Wednesday.
The Victorian general election, which eventuates
next Wednesday, is really the first skirmish in
what will be a long and probably bitter fight. To
those who can read between the lines, and who
can gauge the value of the names behind the move-
ment, the Irvine “Reform” platform is merely
one step in a clearly-defined, well-arranged con-
spiracy to bear down wages, _ to undo existing
labor legislation, and to solidify the position of
the utterly nefarious House of Landlords. Backed
by the hard, unscrupulous lying of the Melbourne
—and most of the country—press, and by the
more insidious methods of suppress, the Victorian
Tory party has already got rid of the hated Fac-
tories Act, and is, if the electors allow themselves
to be dragged into it, in a fair way to get a reduced
Parliament with abnormal country representation,
in which the unprogressive squatter and cockie will
run the show. Public service reduction is onedetail,
the further cutting down of the starved Education
system (on which Robert Reid had already begun
to try his hand) is another. And to carry out this
programme the electors are being shamelessly
bamboozled. Premier Irvine promises a resusci-
tated Factories Act, Constitutional Reform and a
double dissolution with a Parliament elected on
the new basis, all inside twelve months. So a
semi-sober individual promises to eat his hat, or a
small boy bets a thousand pounds, or Parkes


promised local government! Irvine is really a
marionette in the hands of those behind the
Kyabram ghost. This much for the honesty of
Irvine’s intentions re tlie Factories Act:
Cameron, Shiels and the unspeakable Bent have
sat as a committee to choose the Government
candidate in each electorate, and they have in-
variably chosen the nominee of the Citizens’
Reform League—and the nominee of the
Citizens’ Reform League, in practically
every instance, was, till just now, a savage
opponent of the Factories Act and to every kind
of progressive legislation. Nearly a hundred
sudden and temporary converts are to follow
Irvine in his campaign, Irvine himself being the
suddenest and most. temporary convert of the
crowd, and Bent hardly pretending to be even
that. And, on the other side, Peacock, who
ought to be leading the Liberal Party, has appar-
ently lost his head, and is laughing incoherently
in odd corners of the State ; and the Labor Party
is the only real force left to oppose Kyabram and
co. The one thing that any good Victorian can
do now is to avoid the Age candidate, and the
Argus candidate, and the Irvine candidate as
much as possible; to vote the Labor ticket where
there is one; to vote the Peacock ticket where
there is one, and where there is no direct Labor can-
didate ; to do whatever he can to unite the scat-
tered forces of Democracy ; and to swear off the
Kyabram conspiracy and all its works.
♦
The Tendency of Coal-ships to Founder.
Many people will be much comforted in mind at
the decision of the N.S.W. Court of Marine
Inquiry that all was right as right could be with
the steamer Quiraing, which went out from New-
castle (N.S.W.) with a big load of coal, and
shortly afterwards went to the bottom with all
souls. The Court found that she was fitted all
right, manned all right, loaded all right, in the
very pink of condition, as safe as safe could be,
and her loss was merely one of the freaks of
Fate. (The fact that this kind of prank is more
often played on coal-ships than on other classes of
vessels is merely owing to the inexplicable work-
ings of Chance.) It is true that at the Marine
Court Inquiry several persons (merely common
seamen, however) gave sworn evidence that they
considered the vessel unsafe; in some eases they
had left their jobs on her because they feared that
she was not seaworthy. To the general public
this evidence (even though it was contradicted by
various officers) would at least suggest a suspicion
in regard to the boat. Sailors are riot, as a rule,
timid, nervous persons, and jobs are so hard to get
novVadays that they are not thrown up causelessly.
But to the N.S.W. Court of Marine Inquiry it
was “quite evident” thattheQuiraing was perfectly
safe. And it is not going beyond the mark to say
that it is quite evident to the N.S.W. public that
our system of safeguarding the sailor’s life, from
Marine Board Inspection to Marine Court In-
quiry, is perilously close to being farcical. Inspec-
tion prevents nothing, inquiry punishes or con-
demns nothing, and the sacrifice of human life
continues. Admitted that there will always be
accidents at sea, which no human thought can
prevent, what puts the present system most dis-
tinctly on trial is that a certain class of boats is so
specially chosen for the blows of Calamity. The
passenger vessel doesn’t founder with all hands
with a fraction of the frequency that the
coal vessel does. With equal precautions the
risk should be equal. But most certainly the
precautions are not equal; and that is where there
is need for remedy. The exact conditions govern-
ing the inspection, &c., of vessels which do not
carry passengers are not, of course, divulged by
Marine Board Inspectors, Courts of Marine
Inquiry, &c. If set down nakedly they would
probably look too nearly like an approach to homi-
cide. .Some idea of them may be gathered from
the experiences of the steamer Balmain, recently
condemned as unsea worthy at Auckland :
The steamer took a cargo of coal from Newcastle
(N.S.W.) to Gisborne, on discharge of which she proceeded
to Whangarei and took in a supply of bunker coal pre-
paratory to leaving for Kaipara to load timber for Sydney.
It was then discovered that the boiler tubes were leaking
so badly that the engineers would not take the risk of
proceeding to sea in the steamer before proper repairs
were effected, and consequently the Balmain came down
to Auckland for that purpose. After the engines and
boiler had been fixed up to the satisfaction of the Govt.
Inspector of Machinery, the steamer’s clearance papers
were granted by the Customs, and she was ready to leave
for Kaipara. The crew, however, then stepped in and
demanded a survey of the hull. A preliminary survey
showed that one of the plates in the steamer’s stern was
in a very bad state ; in fact, so bad that the inspector at
once decided that the steamer must be docked, so that a
oomplete survey inside and outside should be made. The
Balmain was floated into dock on August 8, and the sur-
veyors, after a thorough investigation, decided that the
crew’s complaint was justified, and have reported to the
Marine Department that the steamer is unseaworthy.
One is not justified in deducing a general rule
from a single example ; else it would be clear that
the only method by which a crazy cargo boat can
be made seaworthy is a strike of the crew, and
that so long as the crew is too hungry or too
desperate to strike the boat goes to sea unchecked.
That possibly is not the general rule; it is
evidently the case sometimes. Apparently,
judged by the Balmain case, a cargo vessel can
wander about the Australian coast in an utterly
worn-out state without the marine authorities
having the least knowledge or suspicion of the
matter. If the Balmain had sunk on its way to
Maoriland it would seem that the marine authori-
ties could have truthfully sworn, in its case also,
that it had left this side, so far as they knew, in a
perfectly sound state.
India.
Bombay meteorological department predicts a
bad season over a considerable part of India, and
another famine. All things are comparative, of
course, and a bad season in India would be re-
garded as a dazzlingly good one in Australia—but
tliat is a side issue. In a European sense, India
is a thinly-peopled country —far more thinly-
peopled than Austria-Hungary, Belgium, France,
Germany, Italy, Holland, Switzerland, England
—in fact, its population is only a quarter
the density of that which lives and thrives in some
prosperous European countries. It is about half
as thinly peopled as Japan, which, though barren
by comparison with India, is prosperous, and
f rowing rich, and which doesn’t have famines.
ndia is a highly fertile country, with a good
average rainfall a country which grows,
even in a bad year, more food than it wants
for its own use. _ The difference between
it and Japan lies in the fact that India
is under British rule and Japan isn’t—that India,
under British Freetrade ideas, has lost its manu-
factures, and been driven back to the “great
natural industries,” as M'Millan call them, while
Japan is a manufacturing state—and that India’s
banks, railways, debt, and financial institutions
are owned in England, while Japan’s are not.
Indian famines arise from the fact that the crops
have failed in some district or districts, and the
beggared populace, where a man’s average earn-
ings are barely three-farthings a day in good
times, has no money to buy the food that grows
abundantly in other provinces. Since Indiabecame
British territory, it has been covered with rail-
ways, built largely by English companies, to
which a certain rate of interest is guaranteed ; so
the people are taxed to make up the interest, and
the taxes go to England. India is taxed to pay
pensions for innumerable ex-officials resident in
England. It is taxed to pay for wars in Afghanis-
tan and elsewhere. Its banking profits go to
England. Its local shipping—once very exten-
sive—has been practically absorbed by England.
Its high officials are all English, and take their
savings to England. And it isn’t allowed to do
anything to prevent this grabbing of everything
by England. India now has to pay England, in
one form of tribute and another, some thirty
millions a year. It was first plundered by the
English East India Co. and its satellites to an
extent commonly estimated at 500 to 1000 million
pounds—plundered to such an extent that almost
the whole wealth and manufactures and commerce
and banking of England date from that great
steal. Then it was called upon to pay enormous
interest for the loan of a little of its own
money. Its manufactures were destroyed by
the English Freetrade system, and it has to
pay its tribute mostly in agricultural produce, for
almost its whole population has been forced on to
the land. After the tribute is paid there is barely
enough left to Jive upon in good years, and in bad
years there isn’t enough. For in the worst famine
year the English creditors demand their interest,
the English officials their pensions and salaries,
the English railway co’s. their guaranteed divi-
dends, and enough produce must be exported to
pay these, no matter who starves. In the days of
native rule the surplus grain of an extra good year
remained in the country, so that there was still
abundance in the next bad year ; now the surplus
goes to England to pay interest on foreign debt or
profits to absentee capitalists, and when there
is no surplus, then the necessary food of
the people goes. In the first quarter of
the 19th century, when India was mostly under
native rule, there were five famines, each covering
a very small area. They were mostly caused by
war, and the deaths from hunger were about a
million. In the last quarter of the 19th century,
when India was all under British influence, and
when there was no war, there were eighteen
famines, most of them spread over a large area.
Among these eighteen were included the four
worst famines in Indian history, and in twenty-five
years one-tenth of the population (or 26 millions)
died from hunger. The visible causes are Free-
trade, the destruction of native industries to
make room for imports, and the influx of foreign
capital—in other words, the growth of the absen-
tee creditor and the consequent drain of interest.
India to-day, with famine as a yearly visitant
instead of an occasional horror, is just what
George Reid and William M‘Millan and Cook
and Pumpkin Smith and Conroy and Jos. Symon
are trying to make of Australia.
♦
The Rio Log'e Kanaka.
The Rio Loge Kanaka hoax has fallen through.
When this vessel was about to start for the islands
with a few tons of time-expired Kanakas, Premier
Philp wept tears of great bitterness over a fancy
picture, drawn by himself, of the returned Kanaka
landing only to be butchered by his savage rela-
tives —the ones the missionary has been con-
verting for the last 50 years. Philp pictured
the nigger imploring the captain to take him
back to Queensland, and the captain not able
to do it because of the alien restriction laws, and a
good Christian Kanaka being forced ashore to
certain death because of Barton, and his blood
being on the head of Deakin. Philp wrote letters
about it in the name of “ common humanity ” and
such-like moral sludge, and when Deakin asked
why the Philp crowd, which had for 30 years
been throwing the islander ashore to be killed
by any hostile nigger, became so anxious
about him notv, it was resolved in cheap
nigger circles that Deakin was without bowels
of compassion. At last the Rio Loge got away—
and landed all its niggers without any trouble.
The savage relatives waiting on the shore to
butcher them were a myth, and the necessity for
bringipg them back for their own safety was a
myth, and all the Philp snuffle was a myth. The
vessel returned to report that it had a quiet
voyage, and left its time-expired islander on
his peaceful isle where the ameliorating influences
of the gospel are spread around by the local mis-
sionary, and it found the collection going on as
usual. All the same the Philp Government will
bring along its next next anti-Federal lie just as
if it hadn’t been bowled out over this one.
♦
The Federal Capital.
Seldom does a week pass now without the savagely
parochial section of the Sydney press—that sec-
tion (principally the Telegraph) which loathes
the democratic composition of the Federal Par-
liament, which acts as commercial and political
pimp to the gang of absentee importers, and
hates the Federal Government’s policy of en-
couraging Australian industries to the detriment
of its shoddy friends, and which is raving mad at
the prospect of having to pay postage instead of
cadging on the community—publishing a jaun-
diced article with the above heading. The capital
is its stock parochial lie and howl nowadays. The
terms of the Federal compact are that a Federal
city is to be established in N.S. Wales, at a
distance of 100 miles or more from Sydney. It
is to remain there for all time, and there is an
awful stretch of long and dreary time ahead—4o,ooo
years may only see it fairly begun. Till the new
capital is fixed the Parliament is to meet in
Melbourne. These terms were only put in the
Constitution after N.S. W.’s Freetrade politicians
had, by Act of Parliament, nullified the first
Referendum vote—the one whereby the people
accepted Federation and expressed their willing-
ness to come in on the same terms as the other
States. If they hadn’t nullified that vote, the
Parliament would probably be sitting at Sydney
to-day, and Sydney would probably be the
permanent Federal Capital to-day. Sydney
was barred simply because N.S. W.’s Free-
trade politicians first of all insisted on bar-
ring all the other capitals. The terms were
special ones, negotiated for by N.S.W. Freetrade
politicians, and the other States conceded them to
the spoilt child of the Union. No person in his
senses, however, expected that the new Federal
capital could be constructed on the instant. It
had to be selected ; the area decided upon; the
Federal Parliament and the N.S.W. State Parlia-
ment had to pass the necessary enactmeuts.
Above all things, the money had to be found, and
before any large financial proceedings of that
kind could be effected the tariff had to be
passed, so that the Federal Parliament might
know what money it had. And every time
an attempt was made to pass a few extra
clauses of the tariff and make a little extra pro-
gress, the Telegraph’s own M‘Millan and
Pumpkin Smith arranged a stonewall, and the
Telegraph held forth proudly next day about
how the effectiveness of their stonewalling tactics
had disconcerted Kingston and made progress
impossible. The Telegraph itself has offered no
plan for raising the necessary money for construct-
ing the Federal capital, and the only plan offered
—that of George Turner, who suggested finding
the necessary funds by the adoption of the
Canadian banking system—is bitterly denounced
in its columns. It has fought savagely against the
selection of the site which its own special com-
missioner reported to be far the best—Monaro ;
and thus helped to prevent any progress.
And so 15 months—nearly one session—have
gone by without a great Federal city being
built when there was no money to build it with.
About one-thirtieth of the time that N.S.W. has
spent considering its city railway, and its North
Shore bridge, and its Local Government Bill, has
elapsed without this much bigger work being done.
And to the Telegraph’s diseased intelligence,
warped by the prospect of Australian industries
springing up, and by the fear of not being allowed
any longer to cadge on the poor for its gratis
postage and its subsidised newspaper trains, the
fact that no Federal city has been built in 15
months is evidence of a deep and wide-spread
conspiracy too horrible to mention. The bulk of
the people of New South Wales take no notice of
the jaundiced and impossible ravings of their
silly journal, but it has the effrontery to declare
that its attitude—the attitude of a soured spinster
squabbling at a meeting of the Old Cat Society—
is the attitude of New South Wales. And that is
an assumption which needs to be vigorously
refuted. New South Wales isn’t all soured old cat.
4
The Vindication of Lyne and See.
Australia is just now a little more financially
discredited than usual, and N.S.W.’s debt in par-
ticular has almost touched the monumental figure
of £75,000,000, while the need for a few more
millions is very urgent indeed. In these circum-
stances there has been an indignant rallying up of
worn-out public daddoeks, and Ltne and See and
O’Sullivan got up almost simultaneously to ask
what there was to complain about. Some speci-
mens follow:
Mr. Lyne said that when he read and heard statements
about the terrible debt and insolvency of the State he felt
angry that they should be made, and felt sorry that they
should fall on the shoulders of Mr. O’Sullivan, who was
the best Minister for Works this State ever had. The
statements about the indebtedness wer' untrue, and it
was not necessary to cry out about s.. .iding money,
seeing that there was no practical debt, a.:.T nothing like
the debt of Great Britain.
Mr. O’Sullivan said there had been no waste of money
in New South Wales, and he intended to carry out other
public works such as railways, artesian bores, sewerage
works, etc. He 1 contended that the present Government
had saved the State. They had the plague and other
calamities to contend with, and fought manfully against
such odds and came out on top.
Mr. See : Is there any one act that the Government has
done during the whole of its administration that any man
dare undo if he had a chance? Bare those braves who
stand up and indirectly condemn me day by day,
challenge me in my place in Parliament with having done
one specific act which would warrant Parliament in
putting me out of office ? I throw down that challenge 1
Let them come forward with a specific charge of extrava-
gance in regard to public works which were carried out
with the support of Parliament. Then why all this
sophistry and platitude about the indebtedness of New
South Wales ? Since the inception of Responsible Govern-
ment, every shilling of money spent on public works is
money in the main well spent, and to talk about our
national debt as though we were overburdened by it is
merely the claptrap of those who do not understand. I
say that we should measure our national debt by our
national assets, and if some great syndicate, such as
Pierpont Morgan’s, could buy our national assets on the
basis of 25 per cent, advance on what they have cost,
would not they be glad to get them !
Truly the valor of these men is appalling ! Yet
John See, who is so anxious to have just one
definite charge brought against him so that he
may cast the fragments of it back in the accuser’s
teeth, knows that his Government has been
specifically accused a score of times (it is hereby
accused over again to make extra sure) of about the
meanest and dirtiest political swindle and account-
faking in N.S.W. history—the appropriation as
revenue of the rents of unpaid-for properties in
the resumed area of Sydney, while the correspond-
ing liabilities were charged to loans. And appar-
ently wild horses won’t drag the skulking See
Government out of its hole or orifice or barrel to
answer the charge. Even when the matter was
alluded to by the Auditor-General there was no
open reply, though certainly a Bill came crab-
fashion and sideways into Parliament, which Bill
proposed to give the Ministry certain powers of
suppressing the Auditor-General in future. Also,
no one should know better than See that no
Morgan syndicate would be atall likely to buy this
country’s public works at even half what they cost,
unless some very large extra powers of fleecing the
public were thrown in. Men like Morgan don’t,
as a rule, invest their money at If or 2 per cent.,
which is what John See’s silly proposition
amounts to. This habit of asserting that Aus-
tralia isn’t too deep in debt because See or Dreary
Bill Lyne is prepared to give his unsupported
assurance that parties unknown would gladly buy
our public works at more than they cost, is more
than a trifle wearisome. The alleged parties never
turn up. Lyne and See know no more about
what Morgan, whom they probably never saw,
would do, than anybody else knows, and
though their assurance about his readiness
to buy a job lot of gaols and things at
more than first cost is worth, if genuine, as
much as (and no more than) anybody else’s
opinion, they are interested parties, and they are
accusing a very hard-headed speculator of flat
lunacy. In any case, as Australia can’t sell its
roads and gaols and harbors to Morgan, even if
he wanted them, the subject isn’t worth talking
about.
4.
Parson Dill’s Crusade.
Pastor Dill Macky, of Sydney, the shockingly
credulous, kind-hearted, vain, anti-Rome crank,
who can be imposed upon by any escaped nun or
other crude conspirator, announces to the press
that funds have been raised to send him on a lec-
turing tour throughout N.S. Wales, in order that
he may stir up sectarian bitterness and organise
the “ Protestant vote ” for the next general elec-
tion. And, as a token of great gladness, Pastor
Dill Macky’s solemn Scotch house on Church-
hill is now a-flutter with gaudy streamers, and the
Scarlet Woman is in for a bad time. The Bulle-
tin gives Mr. Macky credit for really believing
that there is a danger of Rome capturing Australia,
and getting up an Inquisition, and putting the
issue to him straight to eat fish on Fridays or
take the consequences. The pity of it is that
men of otherwise good character should be found
so silly as to lend themselves to the altogether
disgraceful work of stirring up religious hatreds
and making Christianity a matter of malice, envy,
and uncharitableness. The plea that the Roman
Catholics of the State are organised for political
purposes is palpably an absurd one ; no one can
give the address of such an organisation, or its
officers, or its working hours, or any definite
basis on which to ground a belief in its
existenceand, in mundane affairs at any
rate, that thing isn’t which you can’t prove is
Furthermore, at the Federal Convention elections’
when the chance was given to Roman Catholics
to show that they were influenced by church ideas
in politics, through the candidature of Cardinal
Moran, they refused to be sufficiently
attached to their creed, in a political sense,
to give the head of it even a tenth of their
franchises. If every R.C. had given one vote
of his ten to Cardinal Moran, that gentle-
man would have headed the poll ; but he
failed to get even a place among the first
dozen candidates. That would prove to any one
not blinded by bigotry that “the origanised R.C.
vote ”is a myth. Yet the Protestant Defence
Association is to be formed to counteract that
“organised vote” and to make the blackguarding
of one’s fellow-Christian the chief issue in politics.
If the blackguarding were all, The Bulletin
would be quite content. The things one sect says
about another are, in themselves, indecencies of
very small importance. The trouble is that when
politics begin to turn on the sectarian issue the
man who knows something of our finances, and
wants to administer them honestly, is shunted
aside to make room for the man who can curse his
fellow-Christian in a louder key; and a capacity
for being indignant against dead Popes brings
men into charge of Public Works, Lands, Rail-
ways, and other things they know nothing about.
When some fool Treasurer loses the country half-
a-million over some loan bungle or some badly-
devised railway it is poor consolation to know
that he is such a good DiLL-MACKY-ite that
he can’t sleep at night for his rage against the Scar-
let Woman. Any individual who urges the electors
to choose its members on religious grounds—any
religious grounds—instead of on their political
cap .city and honesty is a traitor to the country.
It may not matter to Parson Dill if the ill-
governed State slithers down a great precipice'
into the sea of bankruptcy. Prob ibly he knows
so little about mundane politics that he wouldn’t
know what bad government meant if he found it
lying with a label on it in his collection plate.
Possibly he doesn’t care what happens to the State
so long as his own private grudge and bigotry are
satisfied. But all people are not so constituted.
Just now a Government that will.abolish foreign
loans is worth moi-e to N.S.W. than one that will
curse the Scarlet Woman or any other alleged red
female for 40,000 years, and the scheme for dis-
tracting attention from the country’s dreadful
financial position by throwing bricks at dead and
gone images is wholly mis-timed.
♦ ;
The policy on which Premier Irvine goes to the
Victorian electors is, word for word, the same
vague twaddle on which every other Australian
Premier goes nowadays. This is it in his own
words:
To reform che Constitution in such a manner as to
secure simplicity and economy in the working of Parlia-
ment, and to increase the efficiency and representative
character of both Houses.
To effect permanent economies throughout the whole
domain of Government expenditure, with the view of
enabling a larger share of the proceeds of taxation to go
towards opening up and developing the resources of the
State.
To proceed with prudence, but without timidity, in the
construction of such public works as will enure to the
permanent benefit of the people by increasing the wealth-
producing capacity of the country.
The skeleton in every case consists of about ten
words: “prudence,” “resources,” “develop,”
“economy,” “country,” “judicious,” “public
works,” “opening up,” are all that are really
wanted. Then the flesh of verbiage is put on the
bones of repetition, and the grin of tautology on
the jaws of platitude and the thing is done.
The man who imported to Australia that phrase
“ developing the resources of the country ” brought
in a worse curse than the rabbit. It is the excuse
for big loans, deficits, thriftlessness, waste, and
log-rolling; it covers all manner of steals ; and it
is the whole mental stock-in-trade of stodgy,
tenth-rate hangers-on to the tail of politics.
There are at least 100 dull mediocrities in Austra-
lian politics who would never have got there if
they hadn’t disguised their mental barrenness by
saying they believed in developing the resources
of the country.
Victorian Minister for Railways, Thos. Bent,
opened his mouth at Nhill last week to say this :
Premier Peacock had brought in the Shops and
Factories Act, which had been the ruin of the community,
and he had done everything possible in it to make it
impossible for certain men to live at all.
And the Irvine Government, of which the un-
speakable Bent is so fitting a member, was all the
while strenuously declaring that its first purpose
was to re-enact this same Shops and Factories
Act. Truly a “strong” Government—a Govern-
ment no sane citizen would get to leeward of.
♦
The Tasmanian Ministry, though kept pretty
busy dodging no-confidence motions, has lately
found time to introduce a new Sale of Liquor Bill,
which contains provisions dealing with the tied-
house trouble. As the Cascade Brewery Co. has
got 90 per cent, of Hobart pubs, securely leg-
roped, the trouble in that dreary village is alleged
to be of considerable dimensions. The “untying”
clauses are on Maoriland lines, and as brewer
Tattersall doesn’t tie his own pubs, and objects
to any other brewer doing so, the proposal is likely
to become law. All bonds, agreements, pro.
notes, cheques, etc., entered into for pub.-tying
purposes are to be declared void, and the brewer
and publican wishing to arrange matters will need
to do so on the nod. And a nod, which is the
thing that a blind horse is said to find as good as a
wink, can’t be put in a bank safe as security.
Maoriland Farmers’ Union persistently barracks
for the freehold tenure as against the lease in
perpetuity. Probably for the occupier of the soil,
once he has paid for the soil, the fee simple is the
best. But thousands of him never manage to pay
for it, and they mortgage and re-mortgage and
spend a dreary life working off a dead horse.
What they pay in interest alone would, very often,
have paid the rent for a life time on the lease in
perpetuity, and the original capital and borrowed
principal been available for stocking and working
funds. Also, the whole community has an interest
in the land. There is no reason why the land-
robbers of Hawkes Bay, for instance, who obtained
thousands of acres of lovely country in return for
a few red blankets, or for the honor done to some
Maori chief by taking his best-looking daughter as
a temporary tart, should be allowed to escape scot
free, when clean, honest white men who came
after have to pay rent for ever and ever. Maori-
land has found it necessary for the national wel-
fare to buy out, at the cost of hundreds of thou-
sands of pounds, estates, considerable portions of
some of which were obtained in return for a few
scores of red blankets, or a few years living with
half-naked, savage brown women, some of whom
had eaten human flesh. The most persistent bar-
racking for the freehold system comes from some
of. the eminently respected gentlemen who ob-
tained their fee simple by those quaint old devices.
+
The persistent booming of Slimy Ward by the
Tory Maoriland press is significant. Ward is
praised as the diplomatic, courteous leader; the
polished gentleman who pour 3 the oil of suavity
on the cogs of Parliament and makes the machine


THE LARGEST AND BEST IN THE WORLD !
The Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York
NET FUNDS, January 1, 1902, £71,975,776.
Principal Agency in Australasia; Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
Z. 0. RENNIE, General Manager.
SAWMILL MACHINERY.
BAND or CIRCULAR MILLS, very heavy for
hardwood timber. Complete Outfits of any capa-
city. BAND RESAWS. ENGINES, BOILERS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
PULP MACHINERY. GRIP PULLEYS.
william ~>leming,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
go with wonderful smoothness. Ward, a specu-
lator by training and a boomer by inclination, is
far preferred by the boomers to doughty old Sed-
don who, for all his Jingoism and Imperialistic
silliness, is anxious to go slow with regard to bor-
rowing. The old warrior has still great ideas —in
fact there is a cheerful willingness about Dick
to tackle any social problem that is above ground.
The Tory faction can’t break Seddon itself, for the
country will have none of the old Russell-Rolle-
ston gang; but it would like to set up Ward as a
rival leader. Ward made his second lot of money
by splitting hides. A hope seems to be enter-
tained that a man who is so good at splitting hides
may also know something about splitting parties.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “A Chinese Honeymoon."
Lyceum “ Riding to Win.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Palace “Belle of New York.”
Criterion “ Mrs. Goldstein.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Town Hall Melba (Sept. 27).
Princess “A Little Ray of Sunshine."
Her Majesty’s “ Sherlock Holmes.”
Theatre Royal. ...... “ The World Against Her.”
Bijou “Tom, Dick, and Harry.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.—Sandow.
♦
“ Mrs. Goldstein, ”by John F. Sheridan
and Pat Finn (music by Weierter), produced at
Sydney Criterion last Saturday, is a slight and
uneven production, over which the melancholy
mother-in-law joke holds full sway. It opens in
a stylish drawing-room, where a large number of
nice girly boys are saying good-night to Arthur on
general principles. Later on, Celia Mavis, who is
married to Arthur (otherwise Charles Kenning-
ham), requests that Ma shall be asked down to see
the Melbourne Cup, which Arthur refuses, grace-
fully distracting her mind from the subject by a
duet. The act is taken up with more requests
from Celia for Ma, and more solos or duets by
Way of changing the subject. The orchestra at
this epoch gets excited, and expresses its views on
mothers-in-law in general by some storm music.
As a consequence of all this, Celia and Heba
Barlow, who is a neat Yankee girl in bloomers
and an American accent, plot together to intro-
duce ma-in-law under another name, which
results in the advent of John Sheridan as a
middle - aged lady in evening dress. Sheri-
dan, disguised as a mother-in-law who is dis-
guised as someone else, happens for awhile in a
numerous sort of way, just as John has happened
in so many other dresses before, and the comedy
ends up at the Flemington races, which are mostly
cinematograph, though a calm, live horse appears
at the end as an indication that Arthur has won
the race. The race has taken place, according to
the cinematograph, in a sudden burst of darkness.
• * * »
The comedy badly wants filling-out. It
needs to take food and drink and strengthening
medicine, and then to wait behind the scenes till
it has grown up a little. Minnie Hooper’s grace-
ful dancing does good service, and the jockeys,
johnnies and bookies who gyrate at Flemington
can safely be commended; but the piece stops
with a jerk, like a horse that has come suddenly
against a wall in the dark, and the performance is
over so soon that the gallery is entitled to ask
threepence worth of its money back on that count
only. There are few catchy tunes in the produc-
tion, nothing the audience can take away with it
—not even the umbrella left behind by the lady
who ran for the last tram, because the audience
can catch the second last tram quite easily. John
F. Sheridan looks quite himself again in gorgeous
female raiment, and when he assents to the pro-
position that it might be better for the world if
there were more women like him, the gallery
takes the observation in good part. The delight
of Arthur on finding that this bright and loud-
voiced lady is his dreaded relative seems rather
overdone. Mrs. Goldstein impresses you as the
sort of mother-in-law it would be well to give to a
friend, and visit occasionally. Charles Kenning-
ham, who is in good voice, manages to put a little
reality into the legend of the man who is afraid of
his wife’s parent, but it is a hard struggle. Miss
Cecilia Mavis is not always at her best, her voice
suffering occasionally from that tired feeling.
Miss Heba Barlow does her little Yankee part
successfully, though the bloomer-clad American
girl with the twang is another aged joke. The
comedy relies a good deal on its racing flavor and
its view of Flemington.
** * *
“The Chinese Honeymoon” is expected
to end its career at Sydney Royal early next
week. Considering the present disturbed state of
China, the management might have worked up a
second edition wherein a Boxer uprising slew the
mother-in-law and scattered her monkey and the
admiral’s whiskers to the four winds of heaven,
but the opportunity has been missed. The Royal
advertisement retreats in good order, stating to
the last that the “Chinese Honeymoon” is
“ the most charming and romantic comic-
opera of the century.” When an adver-
tisement departs from the solid truth it may
as well depart with all its might, and the
above statement has some points about it.
At the same time it would be interesting to know
what view the Full Court would take if somebody
sued for the return of his ss. on the ground that
he paid for the most charming comic opera of the
century and the article wasn’t delivered. The
Bulletin would like to hear G. H. Reid for the
plaintiff holding forth on the necessity of being
strictly accurate in everything.
** # *
“ The Belle of New York,” as interpreted
by Williamson’s Musical Comedy co., at Sydney
Palace, is a more cheerful lady now than on the
opening night. With more confidence on the
part of the players, there is an all-round brighten-
ing of the performance. The audience is given a
clearer impression of the queen of comic opera,
who, having been married nine times, guesses she
understands the etiquette of the business ; of the
President of the Cohoes Moral Regeneration
Society, who believes in keeping the young folks
out of mischief so that the old folks can get
into all the mischief that is available; and
of the other bizarre characters. Chorus and
orchestra do not show any noticeable improvement,
because they reached high-water mark from the
first in what is really very difficult work. On the
whole Sydney Palace is a bright haven of rest and
amusement just now. There is not a decrepit
joke or a mother-in-law allusion in the whole
course of three hours’ fun.
* * * *
Sydney Tivoli put up an almost completely
new programme last week—the new-comers being
Wallace Brownlow, the Wilton Bros., Dora
Taylor, Tod Calloway, the Nawns, and the Mon-
troses —and not a weak “ turn ” amongst them.
Mr. Brownlow is in excellent voice just now, and
his two songs, “Gunga Din” and “Mandalay,”
though set to a very poor accompaniment,, show
his soft baritone to good advantage. Miss Dora
Taylor is a dancer of the “classic” type, and
trips daintily on her ten commendable
toes. Tod Calloway, a Sydney-grown come-
dian, returns from London-with a novel palaeo-
lithic-man song, which has a good deal of
humor. The wonderful acrobatic business of the
Montroses suffers from the fact that practically
all the novelty of it has been worn off by the
Craggs and the Florenz Family. The Wilton
Bros., however, contribute a turn which “caught
on ” at once and which hasn’t been forestalled by
previous humorists. One of the Wiltons is a
rather meritorious clown, and both do astonishing
things on the horizontal bar. Mr. and Mrs. Tom
Nawn’s Irish-comedy sketch is of somewhat the
same character as that of Callahan and Mack—not
a howling burlesque of the Hibernian in his home,
but a well-studied, quietly-humorous bit of life.
The sketch is set in a very charming Irish land-
scape ; and Mrs. Nawn is a colleen with a fine
pair of eyes.
# * * *
Bland Holt’s “ Riding to Win,” with the
real water and the real dog and other accessories
after the fact, continues to interest a large section
of the Sydney public which loves its melodrama
much mixed. The title of this Lyceum drama
doesn’t do any work till the last act, when the
scenery rushes past Baker on his way to find that
the darkest hour is just before the dawn. This is
an improvement, however, on the previous play
over which the Colors billed as Flying did not fly
at all, or else flew to such a limited extent that
they passed unnoticed.
* * # *
Mrs. G. B. Lewis has arranged to celebrate
her professional ,Tubilee with a benefit performance
at Melb. Royal on Friday, Oct. 3, the night before
Maggie Moore and co. come to hand. The show
starts at 7 30, and sundry things are £oing to
happen. “ Ingomar,” played for the chief parts
by Mrs. G. B. L.’s pupils, is the principal item on
the bill, and this will bring forth Miss Unie
Russell as the early Greek damsel who lures the
hairy barbarian into respectable society. Miss
Russell can’t help looking and speaking the part
of Parthenia angelically, furthermore she is the
brightest and Greekest amateur actress in
Melbourne. Mrs. Lewis is to jubilee as Peg
Woffington in a scene from “Masks and Faces,”
and the interesting occasion will conclude with a
drawing-room reception on the stage under the
management of a general committee. The list of
the committee, beginning with George Coppin, is
about a yard long. Coppin is one of the few
people who know for certain that G. B. W.
Lewis’s well preserved wife is old enough to
celebrate a 50th anniversary of her theatrical
debut.
* * * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.) the well-built
drama of the superhuman ’tec and the baffled
Moriarty has fairly got public attention
under arrest. “Sherlock Holmes” is a lurid,
fascinating fiction that grabs a scoffer by the neck
and shakes him into an acknowledgment of its
merits. It suggests any number of policemen
behind the scenes, yet no stereotyped member of
the Foorce obtrudes his blue uniform and regula-
tion boots into the trouble. Even when “the
Inspector himself” is stated to be downstairs
capturing criminals on the strength of information
received, and supplying material for puff para-
graphs in the evening papers, the dramatist
spares the audience the pang of beholding
that familiar friend once again. Sherlock
is the only agent of the Law who appears
in the play, and he differs from all previous
stage detectives in most respects. Some-
times he might be mistaken for a long, lean,
intellectual undertaker looking for a lost corpse
in his sleep, but, as a rule, he is a companionable
wizard addicted to tobacco. He has an amiable
side to his character. He stop to analyse
his reasons for falling in love with the queer,
tearful Trilby girl who possesses the good old
Papers. He just falls right there, and is left to
make his analysis after marriage. Also, he reveals
a kind feeling for his remarkable boy-in-buttons.
» * * *
Sherlock is made of softer stuff than Pro-
fessor Moriarty. The Prof., as Athol wood plays
him (with greatly improved elocution) is * a
Moriarty of 65 or so, and these bad old men are
tough as crocodiles. Anyone who plays tricks on
the Professor is immediately confided to one
Craigin for removal. Craigin (Augustus Glover)
enjoys his employer's complete confidence. When-
ever a little job of killing is required, the Prof, puts
his lips to the tube and says, “ Craigin for that."
Nevertheless, the chief executioner fails miserably
the only time the audience sees him at work. He
ought to hide in the ante-room where the girl has
been planted, and bang Sherlock over the head
when he tracks the damsel to her lair. But
Craigin fools about in the open until his intended
victim knocks the lamp over. Owing to his absurd
procrastination and lack of slimness, Craigin is
arrested before he can get the blood of Sherlock
on his soul. All things considered, he deserves
about 75 years’ penal servitude, with extras.
* * * *
Other Melbourne shows were beginning to
show signs of age last Saturday night. “The
Lady of Ostend ” had grown old enough to
announce her approaching retirement from the
Bijou, in favor of “Tom, Dick and Harry.”
Wednesday of this week was the date appointed
for the new bill to come into force, so this journal
assumes that the three strawberry blonde
facsimiles aforesaid have already become involved
in misunderstandings with three young members
of the opposite sex. “Tom, Dick and Harry” is
a farce which cuts its confusion pretty thick, but
is essentially harmless, which last remark may be
taken to mean that none of the red-headed men
does anything calculated to bring the color of his
hair to modesty’s cheek.
* * * *
At the Opera House there is a further
revival of the Florenz Troupe, and a first appear-
ance of Mark Anthony, a stranger of humorous
tendencies. Also, Fanny Powers—not so little as
she used to be—is assisting to fill in the space
which isn’t set apart for Sandow. The last nights
and matinees of the Strong Man are passing away
one at a time, and it is understood that he
will withdraw his impressive outlines from Mel-
bourne observation and proceed elsewhere with
his heavy weights before the end of next week.
Meanwhile, a demand for Sandow has been raised
by the meek section of the community, which
takes its pleasures prayerfully, and objects to im-
peril its hereafter by setting foot in a theatre. A
matinee at, say, the Masonic Hall would supply a
Christian want—a short introductory address,
followed by Sandow, the meeting to conclude with
the Doxology.
## * *
The Australian press in general, with
many adjectives and great wealth of detail, has
kindly notified readers of The Bulletin that the
first Melba concert at Melb. Town Hall did not
happen on Sept. 24 as originally decreed. The
event was postponed until Saturday of this week
(27th), and all subsequent dates have been put
back two or three days in accordance with the
first postponement. To say anything further
about Madame Melba in this issue would be a
superfluous labor of adoration. Moreover, it
would probably seem irreverent in comparison
with the following extract from the Argus :
Madame Melba and her party travelled from Albury in
the car which was used by their Royal Highnesses the
Duke and Duchess of York, while in Victoria. Driver
Fitzgibbon was in charge of the train, with Guard Hanna
in van, and Conductor “ Denny ” Donovan looked after
the comforts of the occupants of the Royal car. Break-
fast was served in the dining-saloon by the So-and-So Caf6
staff, under Mr. Musgrove’s instructions; and the
drawing-room, beautifully decorated, made a delightful
boudoir from which Madame Melba, surrounded by
bouquets, acknowledged the cheers of the people at the
different stations.
** # *
The Musgrove Dramatic Co. is quitting
the Princess’s this week with the earnest intention
of returning in time for certain races at Fleming-
ton in November. “ Mice and Men,” or, perhaps,
“Sweet Nell,” will bring the season to a close.
Anyway, there is to be a special Melba matinee
revival of “Sweet Nell’’for one afternoon, when
the enthusiasm will doubtless be great.
*# * #
On Saturday the rough, but fruity, voice
of Frank Thornton will be heard in the land once
more. The first time Thornton and his present
co. appeared in Melbourne they came with a
comedy that was more farcical than funny, but
this time they produce themselves in “ A Little
Ray of Sunshine,” which is less farcical, likewise
“ sparkling and unique.”
* * *
The Royal changes the bill on Saturday.
“A Woman of Pleasure” has repented her indis-
cretions for three weeks, and as the Anderson co.
has only another week to fill in the management
will seize the sad opportunity to stage “The
World Against Her ” for five farewell nights. As
the years roll on “ The World Against Her ” gives
promise of achieving the proud, tear-stained
position long time sacred to ‘ ‘ East Lynne. ”
* * *
Charles Holloway has completed a long
and successful season in Adelaide—four weeks at
the Royal, and two and a half more at the'Tivoli—
and the latter house has, for the moment, closed its
doors. Holloway himself finished up in a blaze of
triumph as the manly parson in “Shall We Forgive
Her ? ” Whatever jesting remarks may in this
column have been made on his dramas, they have
been distinguished by good all-round acting, and
mounting of the best, and Adelaide has supported
them with enthusiasm. At the Royal, “Robin
Hood ” was well received for the melody that is
De Koven’s, even though the humor that should
be H. B. Smith’s had mostly to be supplied by
Lauri, and by Ward’s Upper Lip. At present
Lauri is doing better with a large drugged
policeman in “ The Circus Girl,” and Miss Lulu
Evans has been dropped into a cast already
strong in singers. Said cast is also exhibiting
much dancing talent, for which “Robin Hood”
gave it no opening at all.
No sooner is the Vic. Factories Act a dead
letter than the sweater begins to turn the screw.
At a meeting of the Melb. Anti-Sweating League,
t’other day, it was stated that already had
slaughtermen received notice that they were to
have a reduction of 10s. per week in their wages ;
whilst other employers had announced reductions
of ss. and over. Already, in scores of instances,
men had been sacked, and their places filled with
cheap boys. It was also said that one of the
largest retail establishments in the city had given
its employees notice, as soon as the Act lapsed,
that in future they were not to be allowed any
weekly half-holiday. Some large employers
are loyally adhering to the provisions of the dead
Act, but when they begin to feel the deadly com-
petition of the sweater the would-be humane
employers have nothing for it but to follow suit.
In their haste these wage-cutting bosses have
already lost Irvine and co. a good many votes.
A Victorian pressman sums up the situ-
ation :
The Victorian Tory conspiracy to burst up the Factories
Act, bear down salaries, and block progressive legislation
is meeting with success. The fact is due largely to the
cowardice of the democratic leaders. The conspiracy
was hatched in Flinders-lane. Then the two morning
dailies were taken into partnership, and the so-called
reform agitation started in all the glory of black-letter
headlines. By a trick the Peacock Ministry was turned
out of office, and by a further trick Irvine and the doleful
Shiels were put on the Treasury benches. A third trick
secured the dissolution of Parliament. The Factories Act
went to pieces with the dissolution, and then the Age and
Argus set about scaring the people and the democratic
leaders. By much shrieking and lying they frightened
all reason out of the people, and Peacock and his alleged
Liberals crept away like so many whipped curs. A day
or two after the dissolution half the men who had voted
against the Irvine Ministry on the fatal division came
sneaking around to get Ministerial support. Irvine came
out with a pompous manifesto, full of fine phrases about
the ruin of the State and the necessity of Responsible
Government. The democratic leaders crept away some
more, and unless the democratic portion of the community
wakes up before polling-day Victoria will, for the first
time in 20 years, be completely handed over to the Tories.
Democrats were gulled by the fair promises of Irvine that
he would do nothing to endanger the Factories Act. They
now know what Irvine’s word is worth, and should vote
accordingly. They should not forget that while Irvine
talks so much about Responsible Government he is hand-
ing the Government of Victoria over to the newspapers.
The reform movement was created, organised, and worked
to the profit of the two big daily newspapers, and Irvine
has bowed down and worshipped it. If Irvine comes back
with a big majority, as is almost certain, it means
government by the Age and Argus, and that is Tory
rule of the very worst type,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The People’s Prudential Assurance Co.
(Sydney) completed its sixth year on 31st August, 1902.
It is one of the many little proprietary life offices which
sprang up, mushroom-wise, in recent years ; but, though
it also struggles at the back-door of the working-man for
the threepenny industrial premium, its principal profits
seem to be made out of the sick benefit and bottle-of-
medicine business. The present co. took over the business
of a previous institution, and -the £3500 paid for it con-
stitutes the goodwill item (now in process of writing-off)
alluded to below :
Deficit.
(Goodwill
Expenses not
and Total reckoned
Income. Claims. Dividends. Outgoings, an Asset).
1897 £8,611 £3966 £3796 £7,762 £2651
1898 11,670 6173 4646 10,819 1800
1899 11,782 5935 4674 10,609 627
Assurance
Fund.
1900 11,544 5164 4737 9,901 1016
1901 12,266 5517 5933 11,450 1821
1902 12,566 5019 6537 11,556 2831
The most notable feature of the ease is that expenses are
growing in a remarkable fashion. In the first four years
of the co.’s existence expenses did not equal claims ; for
the last two they are distinctly in advance of claims. In
1902, for the first time, the expenses were swelled by the
payment of a 5 per cent, dividend (£217) to shareholders,
but even allowing for this the situation presents these
remarkable features:
Expenses in Proportion to Total Income.
1897 .. £44 1 8 per cent. 1900 .. £4l 0 8 per cent.
1898 .. 39 16 3 „ 1901 .. 48 8 3
1899 .. 39 13 6 „ 1902 .. 62 0 5 „
If the dividend is left out, expenses for 1902 run to £5O
6s. lOd. per cent., and this increase in the proportional
cost of running the business, as the business grows
larger, is not what might fairly be expected in a well-
regulated office.
» * * *
Like many other institutions of its kind, the
People’s Prudential fills no visible want save the want, on
the part of certain individuals concerned, of decent
billets and a promising investment for their money.
When the first valuation was made, in 1901, it had 177
ordinary life policies (the fact that an obscure concern
with very little capital and struggling along mainly in the
medical benefit business should be able to get them,
shows the casual fashion in which people assume that
one office is probably just about the same as another),
2123 medical benefit policies, 19 accident policies, and
4036 industrial and miscellaneous. The industrial part of
the show is the usual sorrowful bargain by which the
thriftless person who can’t save up a half-year’s premium,
but must have the 2d. called for every week, gets very
little indeed for the money. The miscellaneous includes
interesting family events in the Gamp line of business,
medical attendance, and the other things that Oddfellows,
Buffaloes, and Rechabites deal in. Altogether, this 00.
fishes for the small premium in many waters, but when
all the expenses are paid, there doesn’t seem to be enough
left to make the transaction a very promising one for
its customers.
» ♦ * *
The Victorian Permanent Building Society
(Melbourne), a large institution with a paid-up capital of
£231,490, shows a steadily diminishing annual loss, but
still there is a loss even now. The situation is as follows :
Loss Loss on rr i i „
on Property Ke ‘
Business. sold. Loss. serves.
July, 1892 £63,276
„ 1893 .. £7,832 £4,137 £11,969 51,307
„ 1894 .. 15,809 511 16,320 34,987
(Interests on Deposits reduced from 5 to 2J- per cent.
„ 1895 .. 8,108 3,931 12,039 22,048
„ 1896 .. 7,439 1,906 9,345 13,603
~ 1897 .. 6,946 742 7,688 5,915
£10,333 Forfeited Capital added to Reserves 16,248
„ 1898 .. 6,910 397 7,307 8,941
„ 1899 .. 5,479 169 5,648 3,293
„ 1900 .. 3,061 3,061 232
Deficit.
„ 1901 .. 2,235 2,235 2,003
„ 1902 .. 1,585 1,585 3,588
The Victorian Permanent Building Society has nominally
£227,902 of capital still intact. How much it would have
if values were written down to their real present figure is
another question. The investments represent, on paper,
£516,543, and when £516,543 (alleged) of property doesn’t
earn enough to pay. interest on £288,630 of outside
liabilities, the bulk of them carrying interest at only 2£
per cent., these assets can’t be taken too seriously.
• « • «
Still, bad as things are with the Victorian Per-
manent Building Society, they have been a great deal
worse, and the improvement is very material. This, for
instance, is the amount owing to depositors, mortgagees,
and bank during the last few years :
Owing to Depositors, Bank, and Mortgagees.
1897 .. .. £383,689 1900 .. .. £313,838
1898 .. .. 338,966 1901 .. .. 301,177
1899 .. .. 322,551 1902 .. .. 288,630
The liabilities have been reduced by £95,059 in the past
five years, and the loss on the year’s operations is £5361
less than it was in 1897. If this rate of progress
can be kept up, and if the depositors renew again
at 2£ per cent, (their present agreement expiring
in 1903), the Victorian Permanent should be able
to save a good deal for its shareholders out of
the wreck. But it looks like requiring years
of patience to put the institution fairly on its feet
again, and if it was wound up now, supposing the earn-
ings to be any criterion of present values, it seems as if it
would realise no more than enough to pay off the de-
positors and mortgagees. Whether it would realise even
that much on present showing is a matter that it would
be hardly safe to swear to.
• * * *
Whispered that Vic. Treasurer Shiels’ latest
proposal, if the savings don’t meet the deficit—and, of
course, they won’t—is to levy income-tax on all incomes
over £lOO a year. That will touch up the deluded
workers who vote for Irvine’s “ reform ” ; but it will then
be too late to argue with the Assembly, and the 48 Fats
will pass such a measure with enthusiasm—not as a tem-
porary Act, either.
* * * *
The Cascade Brewery Co. (Hobart, Tasmania):
Deficit.
(Goodwill
Surplus not
Dividends and for Re- reckoned
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, an Asset).
June, 1896 £4602 5 per cent. =£4429 £173 £9161
Dec., 1896 4444 5 „ „ 4429 15 9146
June, 1897 4428 5 ~ ~ 4429 9147
Dec., 1897 4429 5 „ „ 4429 9147
June, 1898 4450 5 „ ' „ 4429 21 9126
Dec., 1898 3129 3 ~ „ 2658 471 8655
June, 1899 2668 3 ~ „ 2658 10 8645
Dec., 1899 2375 3 „ ~ 2658 8928
June, 1900 3108 3 „ „ 2658 450 8478
Dec., 1900 2998 3 „ ~ 2658 340 8138
June, 1901 3354 3 „ „ 2658 696 7442
Dec, 1901 4035 3 „ ~ 2658 1377 6065
(£60,750 capital written off, out of which £7500
was applied to wipe off goodwill, leaving a Reserves,
credit balance of £1435) £1435
June, 1902 £4981 6 per cent. =£3402 £1579 3014
Now that the paper item of goodwill is wholly wiped off
and depreciation provided for things ought to go better
with the Cascade Brewery Co. At the same time it ia
burdened with heavy debts, owing as it does £84,507 on
mortgages, debentures, &c., and £18,530 on bank over-
draft —total £103,037. Eighteen months ago these debts
only totalled £100,657, so things have not improved in


tramways. tra.m:wa.ys.
xiie Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Proprietary, Ltd.,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON arid BERLIN,
riquip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material
HAD - Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p. -a®
MOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel
bleepers, T-urntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical
advice gratuitously rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated
Catalogues and Photographic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different
parts of the World, upon application, A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-streeb, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection* Gable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.*
* » * «
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Go., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* » * •
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-streeb, Melbourne,
having returned from his visit to England, is now pre-
pared to purchase approved Mines and Mining Properties
situated in any part of Australasia requiring Capital for
Development and Machinery. Only genuine and
legitimate ventures, capable of bearing the strictest
examinations, will be entertained.*
* * » •
Many doubtful claims have been advanced on
behalf of duplex pumps. Some makers state that their
duplex pumps are “ double the capacity of single pumps
of same diameter and stroke.” An A. S. Cameron single-
acting pump can be run safely and comfortably at a speed
that would knock a duplex pump to pieces. But even at
a low speed, duplex pumps seldom attain even their
theoretical capacities, and the reason for this can be
readily explained. Apply to the Agents, Messrs. W. and
J. Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, for
further particulars. The A. S. Cameron pumps are noted
for their simplicity, durability, and absence of outside
valve gear.*
* * * *
A revolution in smelting furnaces seems pro-
bable. The aid of gasoline has not been recognised.
Ernest de Beer, 439 Bourke-street, Melbourne, supplies
forms to suit assayers, which are marvellous in their
efficiency.*
* * * *
The Government of New South* Wales have
entered into a contract for the manufacture, supply, and
delivery of 13 miles of Mephan Ferguson’s patent Lock-
ingbar or Rivetless steel pipes. These are to be 32 inches
diameter, in 25 feet lengths, and will be used for convey-
ing water from Nepean River to Prospect Reservoir. This
type of pipe has been used by the Government of South
Australia for water-supply purposes for some time past,
and has given great satisfaction ; also by the Govern-
ment of Western Australia for the Coolgardie water
scheme, for which about 320 miles of Lockingbar pipes
have been delivered.*
* * • «
A Sure Fortune.— The best investment in
Australia is buying land at Esperance, W.A., the natural
port of the Kalgoorlie goldfields. With a railway,
Esperance will become one of our busiest ports, as the
trade of the goldfields will pass through it. A permanent
survey is now being made ; the railway is a certainty.
Get in early and make a fortune by purchasing a few
blocks before the great rush sets in. Price, £2O a block.
Terms, £1 a month. Write for plans and particulars to
The Esperance Land Company, Nicholson Chambers,
Swanston-st., Melbourne.*
• • • •
Assure, August, 1901 : “At the end of last year
The Colonial Mutual had attained the age of 26f years
and it can point to a wonderful career of development
and expansion. During that period the company has
issued no less than 85,372 politios, assuring £26,085,346.”
* * * *
The Gardner Electric Eock Drill which has
been lately introduced into Australia is being very
largely adopted in the mines of the United States, and
is giving great satisfaction. This electric drill is filling a
long felt want, now that electricity is being so largely
adopted for all mining purposes. The Gardner Electric
Drill is very simple and easily handled, and drills as fast
as the air drill, and costs much less to instal in a mine,
especially in out of the way places. It requires only one
fifth of the power required to operate an air drill doing
the same work, so the saving in fuel soon pays its cost.
The Gardner Drill at the North Gippsland Proprietary
mine, Victoria, has been in use for eight months, and
done all the drilling for a tunnel 1500 feet long in very
hard country, and the manager speaks highly in praise
of it. The Tarcoola Blocks Co., South Australia, has
ordered a complete equipment for 6 electric drills and
lighting plant for the mine, to be worked by an oil engine
of 16 horse power. The Sole Australian Agents, the
Austral Otis Engineering Co., South Melbourne, will
supply catalogues and estimates on request.*
* * * *
To Mine Managers who use Suction, Drill or
Air Hose, Packing, Valves, etc. The Dunlop Rubber
Mills, Melbourne, want your business. In return they
offer you the finest rubber goods in Australasia, at prices
unequalled by any other house. Depots all States.
Samples and prices on application. One trial solicited.*
* * * *
Local Government Journal, July, 1901;
“ The Colonial Mutual in 1900 : Funds, 31st March, 1875,
£2864; Funds, 31st. December, 1900, £8,491,989. We
believe that we are correct in stating that no life assur-
ance office in the world can show such a record as that
given above.”*
* • * •
About the best Brand for Sheep now in the
market is Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and
is considerably cheaper than any other. It will dissolve
in the scour, and should certainly be used by those who
hope to get a good price for their wool. E. Rich and Co.,
Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* * * *
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£494,910 is invested in the States. Lowest rates and
prompt settlements.*
* ¥ * *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Price Is. 6d., post free.*
• * * *
M.L. Govt, has at last decided to quench a fire
that has been burning in a coal-seam up the Waitohu
river, near Reefton, for 20 years. The coal deposits there
are valuable, and ’tis intended to run a water-race into
the burning seam.
SWEET SLICED MANCO
“SUN BRAND” INDIAN CHUTNEY
Quarts and Pints, obtainable from all reputable
Grocers and Storekeepers throughout the Com-
monwealth of Australia and New Zealand.
Insist on getting - - “ SUN BRAND.”
the interim. Under these circumstances a 5 per cent,
dividend would have been much more justifiable than 6
per cent.
• • • *
The Bulletin’s old and unpleasant acquaintance,
the Independent Order of Foresters life assurance
concern, of Canada, has lately been carrying on a long
and straggling controversy with the S.M. Herald about
the sufficiency of its rates to keep it solvent, and other
intricate matters. These things are not much understood
by the masses, so the controversy isn’t likely' to do
much in the Way of keeping them out of the 1.0. F.
concern. Points whioh the insurer can understand very
clearly are these :
(1) The small insurer is by far the most frequent
variety.
(2) To him, at age 25, the 1.0. F. concern offers a £lOO
policy without profits, and with no surrender value, for
£ll6s. 6d. a year. At that figure he is admitted into a
concern which, according to the recognised rules of
actuarial science, has a huge deficiency.
(2) The A.M.P. offers, at age 25, a £lOO policy without
profits for £1 13s. 7d. a year, and the A.M.P. has no
deficiency in its assets.
These are the points which the insurer should keep
before his eye all the time. It doesn’t matter that the
1.0. F. calls part of its charge “ court dues ” instead of
premium ; the policy-holder has to pay the amount all
the same. So far as concerns the small insurer, who is
also the most frequent insurer, the 1.0.F.’s boasted cheap-
ness is just a falsehood. And while taking more money
from the policy-holder than the A.M.P. does, it also
spends so much more in expenses or other charges that
there is less left to accumulate towards the payment of
the policy than in the A.M.P.’s case. To the small policy-
holder the 1.0. F. offers the blessed privilege of paying
more money for a great deal less security.
The writer still comes, occasionally, across that
unspeakably cheeky advertisement with which the
bounding 1.0. F. first stormed Australia. It set forth in
parallel columns the 1.0.F.’s rates for a policy that carried
no bonuses (but it didn’t mention that its policy
carried no bonuses), and what it said were the
average. rates charged by Australian companies
for policies with bonuses, and asked the public
to consider the difference and the cheapness of
the 1.0. F. And, not content with setting its policy with
no bonus and no surrender value, against the Australian
offices’ policy with a bonus and a surrender value, it
supplied a set of alleged rates for the Australian
offices, which were considerably higher than the real
rates. If there had been more cohesion among the Aus-
tralian offices legal proceedings for slander or getting busi-
ness by false representations might have followed, but
they didn’t. A good, comprehensive Adulteration Act,
with general power to deal with anybody who sells any-
thing by misleading representations has been a long-felt
want in Australia.
• • * •
M‘Lean Brothers and Rigg, Limited, of
Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, etc., hardware merchants
and many other things :
Business Depreciation
Loss. Written Off. Reserves.
June, 1892 £15,554
„ 1893 £15,367 187
Deficit.
~ 1894 16,368 £133,819 150,000
(£150,000 capital set aside to be written off deficit.)
June, 1895 £2,649 £2 649
Profit.
~ 1896 135 2,514
Loss.
„ 1897 1,862 4 376
„ 1893 34,197 £314,132 352,705
Profit.
„ 1899 3,587 349,118
„ 1900 9,857 339,261
„ 1901 5,399 333,862
„ 1902 13,517 320,345
It doesn’t appear for certain that the £150,000 capital
above-mentioned was ever really written off- not that it
makes any difference whether the concern professes to
have £250,000 capital to set against £470.345 of losses, or
£lOO,OOO capital to set against £320,345 of losses. Either
way there is an admitted shortage of £220,345, even
when all the capital is written off. By its own showing
the balance-sheet of MU,can Bros, and Rigg may be con-
densed as follows :
Liabilities. Assets.
Capital .. .. Nil. Stock, &c., £322,488
Bank overdraft ... £232,992 Deficit .. 220,345
Debentures.. ... 240,480
Mortgage .. .. 5,720
Other debts.. .. 63,641
£542,833 £542,833
That is the situation, even if the whole capital is written
off, and as a case of frank and cheerful insolvency it is
interesting. Of course, the concern need not necessarily
remain insolvent; it has already reduced its deficit by
over £32,000, and it may clear off the rest in time. But
it is an interesting situation in the meantime.
* * * *
September rains have much brightened the crop
outlook in S.A., and, for once, the Treasurer’s budget
estimate of the wheat yield is likely to be below the
mark. Usually, it is a bushel or so too much, which
makes a difference when 2,000,000 acres are sown.
* » » *
Marshall’s Paddington Brewery, Limited
(Sydney), up to 31st July, 1902 :
Profits. Dividends. Added to Nominal
.. Reserves. Reserves,
loyo .. £0 024
1897 ..£3533 6 per cent. = £l7Bl £1752 71776
•• 3652 6 „ „ 1781 1871 9,647
7899 •• 5147 6 „ „ 1781 3366 13,013
1900 .. 5958 6 „ „ 1789 4169 17,182
1"1 •• 5976 6 » *. 1782 4194 21,376
1902 .. 4561 6 „ „ 1782 2779 24,155
On the surface of things, this looks like splendid pro-
sperity. Despite the falling-off in profits this year
the earnings represent £l5 7s. 2d. per cent, per annum
on the paid-up capital of £29,701, and for 1901 they repre-
sented over 20 per cent. These reserves (reserve fund,
£20,000, and undivided profit, £4155) have grown up like
Jonah’s gourd till they nearly equal the capital—and,
with all this, things don’t look well. In the first
place, the principal asset is described as “Buildings,
Land, Plant, Goodwill and Furniture, £56,345.” An old-
established business like this should have, before now
written off goodwill out of profits. If goodwill isn’t
written off, the exact amount of this paper asset should at
least be shown. And whatever the amount may be, it
requires to be deducted from the nominal reserves before
the real reserves can be arrived at.
-Another point is that, despite the increase of
the nominal reserves, the co. seems to be accumulating
no liquid assets—in fact, it seems to be growing shorter
of liquid assets year by year. The stock, buildings, &c.,
are not increasing to any great extent—all the increase
of reserves is represented by the growth of the item
4-u Su n? anc * these are growing so remarkably
that the possibility of a good part of the debts proving
difficult of collection can’t be overlooked. Instead of the
solid credit bank balance of a few years ago there is now a
substantial and increasing overdraft. The writer has not
the complete figures for 1900 by him, but the following
are of some interest: °
Credit Bank
Sundry Debtors. Balance.
1897 .. £11,097 .. £2871
!898 .. 16,201 .. 1730
18" - • 18,811 .. 1196
1900 _ Overdraft.
1901 .. 26,751 .. 2325
1902 .. 30,606 .. 2883
The increase in the amounts owing to the co. (presumably
the uncollected debts) more than swallows up the profit
that remains afterpayment of thedividend, and a fine large
overdraft is accumulating. Another remarkable feature
is this : When, the co. started its reserve fund (now
fono ng . at £20,000) with an appropriation of £4OOO in
1898, and a similar amount in 1899, it treated it as a
depreciation fund, and deducted it from the amount of
“ Sundry Debtors,” which certainly suggested that there
were heavy losses or probable losses to be provided for.
It was only after 1899 that it began to call it a reserve fund,
and ceased to treat it as if it was required as a provision
for bad or doubtful debts. Whatever the explanation,
there is apparently an increasing scarcity of actual cash,
and a large increaso in the amount of uncollected
debts. More than the whole capital is now invested in
“Sundry Debtors.” The fact that the shares of a co.,
which is apparently earning 15 to' 20 per cent., remain
persistently below par, is also significant.
* * * *
Re Coolgardie water supply scheme. It is now
alleged that the dam, instead of impounding 4,600,000,000
gallons a year, as was calculated, only impounds
800,000,000 (less than one-fifth), and the supply, calcu-
lated at 5,000,000 gallons a day, must therefore be cut
down (when the pipes begin to run) to 1,000,000ga1. a day.
« * * *
The Ballarat Gas Co. (Ballarat, Victoria): —
Profits. Dividends. £ dded to Re ‘
Reserves, serves.
July, 1899.. £62,865
Jan,, 1900.. £4384 14 per cent. =£4725 62,524
July, 1900.. 5731 14 „ „ 4725 £lOO6 63,530
Jan., 1901.. 4821 14 „ „ 4725 96 63,626
July, 1901.. 5355 14 „ „ 4725 630 64,256
Jan., 1902.. 4476 14 „ „ 4725 64,007
July, 1902.. 5588 14 „ „ 4725 863 64,870
Paid-up capital is £67,500, so the reserves promise very
soon to exceed the amount originally invested by the
shareholders.
* * • »
The popular parson, who recently found it
desirable to depart to fields and pastures new owing to a
“financial embarrassment,” is said to have got hopelessly
involved in mining speculations. Likewise the bagman,
who committed the Hurstviile horrors, is also alleged to
have been driven mad by losses in mining. Oh, mining,
what crimes and skedaddles are committed in thy name 1
* • * *
The Mutual Store, Limited (Melbourne) has
had a slightly better half-year :
Profits. Dividends. ™ en * e '
on. serves.
July, 1900 £1967 £3 6s.Bd.p.c. =£1875 £6844
Jan., 1901 2448 365. Bd. „ ~ 1875 7417
July, 1901 2062 365.8 d. „ „ 1875 7604
Jan., 1902 2083 365.8 d. ~ „ 1875 7812
(£12,500 capital written off)
July, 1902 2583 5 per cent. = 2500 £5054 2841
Paid-up capital is now £lOO,OOO, and the reserves, which,
in the ’Bo’s, reached nearly £30,000, have struck another
mishap which brings them very low down indeed. The
increased dividend is a mystery. It absorbs all the earn-
ings save a miserable £B3 ; yet the institution is loaded
with over £72,000 of mortgages and bank overdraft which
must be paid off before any settled prosperity can be
looked for, and this increase in the dividend makes the
paying off seem more hopeless than ever. This is how
the figures have stood in recent years :
Owing on Mortgage Interest paid
and Overdraft. during j)-year.
July, 1900 .. £64,713 .. £1872
January, 1901 .. 69,047 ... 1925
July, 1901 .. 73,101 .. 1924
January, 1902 .. 72,853 ... 1707
July, 1902 .. 72,445 .. 1679
The exact wherefore of the reduction of interest isn’t
very apparent, but the principal features of the case are
that the debt, though somewhat reduced of late, is still
very heavy, and the increase in the dividend doesn’t
promise to accelerate the process of reduction.
* * * •
Definitely announced that the Great Australian
Quicksilver 00. has made arrangements for the erec-
tion of furnaces on its property at Broadwater
(Clarence River, N.S.W.). 00. has been carrying
on prospecting operations for some years, and is alleged
to have a fair quantity of payable cinnabar ore ready for
stoping. The difficulty hitherto has been in the treat-
ment of the ore, several experiments having failed. Why
this should be so is beyond comprehension, as cinnabar
ore is successfully treated in various parts of the world
by very simple processes. Assuming that the plant about
to be erected is successful, the co. will have to face the
more serious difficulty of disposing of the product.
Quicksilver market is controlled absolutely by a combine
which can afford to sell mercury at a price far below
what would be a payable point here. Whether it could
afford it or not, it would probably undersell a local co., so
as to knock it out.
• * * *
Recent rains have been of little or no benefit to
Oobar, the only mine at which work is being carried on
being the big copper mine. Cobar’s difficulty is O’Sulli-
van's opportunity. He has done well by making arrange-
ments for sufficient water to be conveyed from Warren to
keep the blast furnaces running. He is now about to do
something which may be of permanent advantage. He has
been advised by some of the officers of his dept, that there
is a probability of artesian water being struck within 25
miles of Cobar. Other officials ridicule the opinion.
O’Sullivan has determined to promptly put the conflicting
opinions to the test. A bore is to be put down at once in
the locality indicated as being a likely one for artesian
water. The value of a successful outcome to this work
can hardly be estimated, and should water be struck
O’Sullivan will have earned an enduring monument
from a grateful people. Were an abundant supply of
water available there can be no question that more men
would be employed at Cobar than at Broken Hill and the
town of Cobar would become of infinitely greater im-
portance to N.S.W.
* * • *
North Central (Broken Hill) reports that this
property is under offer for £2500. At one time Proprie-
tary Co. would willingly have given more than that
amount for the ground to use it as a slag-dump.
• * * m
Girilambone Co. has made arrangements with a
syndicate for the treatment of the large accumulation of
tailings by a leaching process. It is understood that
negotiations are in progress for the working of the mine
by a syndicate which proposes to separate the copper
pyrites from the siliceous gangue by the magnetic process.
Broken Hill mines: The lead market continues
very sick, but prospects are not quite so crow-black.
Imports to the U.K. for August were 17,065 tons, against
an average of 19,484 tons monthly from January to July.
Australian lead exports to the U.K. in the first eight
months of last year were 41,816 tons ; the slump knocked
them back to 38,070 tons. Others, however kept going,
and put theirs up from 102,105 tons to 115,580 tons. The
United States keep going still ; but the other big pro-
ducer, Spain, has apparently got tired, and is now easing
off—July returns were 8931 tons, against 10,819 tons in
July, 1901. That diminished Spanish competition is the
most pleasant-looking item that has come the way of
Australian silver-lead miners for a good many month's.
* * * »
Nothing much is happening at the Broken Hill
mines; the managers keep themselves warm rasping
down expenses. The B.H. Prop, is still doing good
work sintering its slimes, ancf the principal change
in this co.’s ever-changing methods is the extension of
this process. The Huntington-Heberlein desulphurising
process is now fully installed at the Pirie works, and
Heberlein, who carried it through, has left. The co.
intends to shortly extend its coke plant at Bellambi.
« » • *
The British (Broken Hill), having done a reason-
able amount of development work, has, like all its neigh-
bors, shut down until lead improves, or something else
turns up. By the way, the Junction North and some
others will wonder what has happened to their mills when
they next try to use them. No attempt has been made
to keep them in working order. The Carmiehael-Bradford
desulphurising people have word from P. H. Snow, who
took the patent to Europe, that German experimenters
have got over the difficulties that cropped up this side.
* * * *
Tasmania’s boss gold-mine—the Tasmania—is
likely to be acquired by an English co. It has been
placed under offer on these terms : £6 per share of the
present issue in cash and 120,000 shares in a company of
£750,000, with a working capital of £lOO,OOO. Experts
from London are expected to be at the mine within three
or four weeks. The mine has been one of the most con-
sistent producers in Australia, its record of dividends
being exceeded only by Mt. Morgan and Long Tunnel. The
great drawback of the mine has been the enormous volume
of water to be contended with, the pumping plant being
larger than that on any of the big mines in the Victorian
alluvial districts. It is reported that this difficulty is
being steadily overcome, and that it will soon be possible
to carry on stoping operations in the lower levels where
large bodies of ore have been proved to exist. In view of
the splendid prospects of the property the proposal made
to the English people seems a very moderate one, the
only point on which any question can be raised is as to
the necessity for £lOO,OOO working capital. The mine is
.well equipped and development work is well advanced.
At the outside £50,000 working capital to provide
additional treatment appliances ought to be ample.
» * • *
The Vulcan tin mine, Irvinebank (Q.), is one
which is not heard much of, possibly because it is owned
by comparatively few individuals who are content to
draw good dividends without worrying about the share
market. Last half-year co. paid £4400 in divs. Since its
inception, divs. have totalled £58,800.
* * « •
Great Central Victoria mine, Victoria Hill—
one of the historic spots of Bendigo—has just completed
a crushing of 24 loads for 2840 z. The stone came from a
spur at a depth of 2715 ft.
*■ m * *
The Long Tunnel (Walhalla, Vic.) squabble
continues, and is intensifying in bitterness. The manage-
ment of the Extended Co. seems very much piqued
because the L.T. 00. refused to accept the terms pro-
posed by it for amalgamation, and is now doing
its uttermost to prevent the L.T. Co. from carry-
ing out the permanent work which is necessary
before it can again reach the dividend stage. This work
is the sinking of a new underlay shaft. Owing to the
configuration of the country this shaft has to be located
in such a position as to necessitate part of its course being
in the Extended ground. The Mines Department has
power to grant the L.T. co. authority to sink the shaft
partly through the other co’s ground. A battle royal is
being fought on this point, the Extended Co. bringing all
sorts of influence to bear on the Minister to induce him
to withhold his sanction. He will be a weak-minded
creature indeed, if he allows any such dog-in-the-manger
consideration as is prompting the action of the Extended
Co. to influence him.
* * * *
Kaufmann ia not likely to profit much out of
the Merton’s Reward deal. The first crushing under his
regime returned a trifle over loz. per ton, but the second
was under the oz. mark. Reports from the field indicate
that the prospects are anything but rosy. Merton was a
wise man when he elected to take £llO,OOO in cash for the
prop erty.
» * * *
So far 1000 tons of copper ore, worth £14,000,
have gone from the new Phillips River (W. A.) district to
Wallaroo for smelting. But though the picked stuff sent
away has gone up to 30 per cent, copper with 3 or 4dwt.
gold, the bulk of the ores cannot stand the charges, and
the Mines Department has now on hand a petition for a
Government smelter.
* * * *
The A. E. Morgans syndicate is busy on Green-
bushes (W. A.) tinfield. The biggest job on hand, superin-
tended by G. H. Clarth, is the bringing in of water from
the Blackwood River. The main will be between six and
seven miles long, and a lift of 800 ft. is necessary; the
plant under order will supply a million gallons a day.
Alongside one of the two reservoirs which are being got
ready a smelter is being built; and the syndicate has
already a fair stack of bought ore—buying started the
beginning of August. The whole scheme should be
going by the opening of 1903.
* • • •
Lake View Consols still making desperate
efforts to find fresh pay-ore before complete exhaustion
of present diminishing reserves. Tenders have been called
for driving 200 ft. at the 800,1000, and 1200 ft. levels. 00.
has lent 10-head of its mill to the Elmore Oil Co., which
intends experimenting on a commercial scale with W.A.
ores. This process has been in the experimental stage
for years, and great are the claims made for it as to
efficiency and economy in the concentration of mineralised
ores.
* * *
Euro, Laverton (W.A.), like all the mines of
that discredited district, seems to peter out at a very
shallow depth. During Aug. the mill, through scarcity
of ore, only ran 8 % days, and treated 1251 tons for 5220 z.
Why a 40-head mill was ever erected on such a one-horse
show—which, even at its best, only provided enough ore
for a 16 days’ run a month—possibly G. W. Hall knows.
Hall is credited with having taken up more leases and
paid more fees into the treasury than any other individual
in the State.
* » * *
Ivanhoe (W.A.) has already replaced 10 head of
the old light stamps by heavy ones, and expects to re-
place the remaining 60 head before the year is out. In
spite of the job occupying 20 days, there was no diminu-
tion in the tonnage treated, August figures reading 10,767
tons for 12170 z. The total working costs are given as
41s. Id. per ton, including Bs. 2d. for development. Ex-
cluding London costs and depreciation, £2 a ton is the
low water-mark of Kalgurli mining costs, under existing
conditions.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) is again in charge
of Manager Ralph Nichols, who has returned after a few
months’ holiday. Mine looking better than ever and ore
reserves must be far ahead of the mill. The underlay of the
Associated’s Tetley lode came into the property at about
400 ft., and is now being opened up at the 500 and 700 ft.
levels. The August output of 16,3110 z. from 12,487 tons is a
record for the mine. The figures of co. are not given, but
the profit must be about £35,000, sufficient to pay 4s. a
share monthly. The next 10s. div. is due on October 10.
• • • •
Kalgurli (W.A.) has been developing very well'
at the lower levels, and reserves are now well ahead of
treatment-plant. At 1000 ft. the ore averages 2§dwt. for
the 50ft. driven. Plant, since being remodelled, is getting
fairly into work, and, during August, treated 3645 tons
for 38720 z. This is much the best run so far accom-
plished. The costs at the mine tot up to 375. 7d. per ton,
which leaves £BOOO, less London exs., for divs., which are
certainly long overdue. Present rate of profit won’t last,
as only 3s. 6d. a ton figures for development and Is. lid.
for repairs, both of which are abnormally small. Ivanhoe,
which treats three times the quantity, allows 11s. 6d. for
these items.
* • « *
Latest developments at the lower levels of the
Associated (W.A.) merely go to confirm statement, pre-
viously made, that the lodes at the 800 and 1050 ft. levels
are absolutely valueless. So far as proved, no pay ore
exists below 600 ft. Reports are being industriously
circulated that the rich Iron Duke chute will be cut at
the 1050 ft. level, but, until continuation is proved at
Oroya’s 8 level, it is premature to predict anything
regarding it. August return is published as 47260 z. from
5119 tons, which will leave no margin for profit.
* * * •
The Ida H., Laverton (W.A.), ia making a
brave show till insiders get out. The latest return from
the mine is 13320 z. from 1160 tons. At the lowest level
the reef becomes poorer and beautifully less. Going south
it is a mere leader till it pinches out altogether. Early
in the year shares were quoted in London at about £4
and have since fallen to 355., so evidently the tap has
been turned on. When the public are left with the
baby to hold, and not till then, will the true state of
affairs be announced, and the usual wail will be heard.
* * • *
The new find at Edjudina (W.A.), continues to
attract a lot of attention, but some time must elapse
before any returns are obtained. The outlook, however
seems so promising that a direct track is being cut from
Kookyme, 30 miles distant. Bung evidently means to set
off scratch, as already three public house licenses have
been applied for, but were refused, as no town site has been
surveyed. The Wallaby, held under option by Boulder
Hamilton is still considered the pick of the basket
though the Queen’s Birthday is producing very rich
reef lmen3 rom a n ' kader running parallel to the
• * « •
Manager Isles, of the South Kalgurli (W.A.)
has again taken charge of that mine. The mine is looking
all right down to 800 ft., and ore reserves are fairly exten-
®‘ve f -T bufc so should be, after £370,000 has been spent
on the property. No wonder shareholders are growling'
& refcu !£ °U tbeir mone y- Profits are alleged
* t rao “ th * bu t. even so, it will take 12 years to
repay what has already been spent.
Associated Northern (W.A.) according to
Manager Rodda, will have a 20-head battery, concentrat-
ing tables, cyanide plant and slimes process at work in
six months. It is to cost £40,000. “In the States,” said
Rodda, “ I (jould put up a similar plant for 20,000 dol-
lars.” That would be possible in W.A. if London
directors would give Australian machinery-makers a
chanoe. But the suggestion is too horrible 1 It would so
materially reduce “ com.” which is so dearly loved by
lordly guinea-pigs. Rodda would prefer to continue to
send ore to the smelters but the low grade has to be
treated on the spot. “ There’s over £1,000,000 worth of
rich ore blocked off ready to be stoped,” said the mine-
manager to the writer the other day.
* * • •
Lake Violet Consols, Wilura (W.A.), is chiefly
remarkable for the efficiency of its 10-head battery.
During August, this mill ran 24 days and treated 1330
tons for 4960 z. This figures out at 5.54 tons per stamp
daily, which must be a record for Australia. Crushing
only started in February, with an average of 14dwt. 6gr.,
and this has tailed off so rapidly that it is now only 7dwt.
Bgr. Any further decrease will silence the champion
battery.
* * • *
The remodelling of the Mb. Charlotte and
Hannan’s Reward (W.A.) plant is almost complete, and the
treatment of ore will be resumed shortly. Stoping from
the cross lodes is now in progress, but the rock drills
break down so much mullock that the average value is
bound to go very low, and quite unpayable. It is safe to
predict that the co. will never earn a dividend, and that,
within three months, the mine will again be in the hands
of tributors, rooting out the small rich leaders.


DAVID JONES & CO.
HIGH-CLASS HATTERS
Prices upon Application.
Genuine
Fine-Grade
Hand Selected
PANAMAS
George & Barrack Sts., Sydney
CEREBO
TABLE SALT
Makes all the Food
more strengthening.
From Grocers and Stores.
Wholesale Agents & Attwood, Sydney.
Society
MY LOVE AND I.
[For The Bulletin.]
We strolled beside the sapphire sea—■
The girl whom I loved and I.
The breeze was warm, the sun shone gay
From deep in his cloudless sky.
I thought she loved me in return,
My heart beat joy-ful-ly ;
And O ! how glad I thought the song
Of the never silent sea.
Again we strolled beside the shore,
The girl whom I loved and I;
But the breeze was chill and the heartless sun
Mocked up in his cold blue sky.
I thought she loved me in return ;
But alas ! it was not so—
The girl I loved had tossed her head
As she cruelly said me “ No ! ”
And the Universe was a wasted thing,
And time went dolefully,
And the world was superfluous and dead
That day by a grey, grey sea.
m.l. Geo. Ewell Bisset.
• * * *
The first breath of summer blows on
Sydney ; the drought is still with us ; the plague is
still hanging about the horizon ; the water supply
is lower than ever, and an evil-minded and stench-
ful economy in the matter of flushing drains, &c.,
is forced on the people. Clouds of dust and
germs rage up and down the streets —the worn
wood-blocks of the city and the drought-stricken
macadam further out. A good many things want
doing at this crisis, but they all bump up hard
against these three immutable Australian laws:
(1) It is wrong and utterly sinful to do any public works
of any kind except with loan mone} - .
(2) If loan money can’t be got, the works, however
necessary, must be left undone, even if we have enough
revenue, or could easily get enough revenue, to do them.
(3) When loans become unprocurable we must cease
doing any works and relapse into barbarism.
UP-TO-DATE.
SHE: “ That's very nice. What are you going to
call it —‘ Wedding Bells?'”
HE: “No, that's played-out. How do you think
‘ Decree Nisi’ would go?"
The royal road to glory, so far as Mel-
bourne people are concerned just now, is to have
known Melba, or to be related to somebody who
knows Melba, or to know somebody who is related
to Melba, or to have some probable chance of
touching the hem of Melba’s robe. Sandow, the
strong man, who has been a craze, fades into com-
parative insignificance before the strong woman,
and the smaller stars hide their diminished rays.
The withdrawal of all competitors from the field
at the approach of the Queen-singer is a remark-
able feature of the visit. Sandow has had many
challenges; nobody with vocal pretensions even
ventures out of doors since Melba came into her
kingdom, and it is better to have carried home
the diva’s washing than to be a little, local, home-
made celebrity. Excruciating bores have cropped
up like mushrooms along the Yarra during the
last few weeks. They are the people who heartily
congratulated Melba and predicted her great
success in her girlish days. These terrors constitute
a numerous class, and do not disguise their great
expectations. If Madame is remiss in exhibiting
her heartfelt gratitude to several thousand people
that she never heard of before, her stock will
slump woefully in many homes.
* » • *
Life : The interval between drinks.
Death : “ Closing time, gentlemen, please.”
* * • »
The comforting statement is made by Syd-
ney Master Butchers’ Association that two-thirds
of the meat sold in Sydney just now is unfit for
human consumption.
« * * »
Archdeacon Gunther, who knows so much
about early Sydney, happened on a mare’s nest in
the Anglican Synod last week. The notion that
the Samaritan nuns made something out of the
site of their old home in Pitt-street. has suggested
to many “squatters ” on Crown lands to try to
establish a deal. The filthy old plot of iniquity
next St. Andrew’s Cathedral became the site of
Sydney Town Hall, and as it adjoined St.
Andrew’s, though the church had no title to it
and merely mouldered next door, a feeling has
arisen that St. A. might have got some money out of
the transaction—been paid for being next door, so
to speak. The Archdeacon tried to revive some
sort of a claim, but it was no use. If the
Church had worked up a claim in political
pressure style at the time some money consolation
might have been given. The Anglican Church
was a kind of suzerain over the little plot, dirty
and desecrated as it was, and many of its highest
pillars mouldered to dust there.
• * » • ,*
Subscribers to Melbourne Women’s Hos-
pital (KiOO of them) were recently asked to express
an opinion as to the desirableness of continuing
the system by which women patients in the mid-
wifery section are labelled as married or unmarried,
so that kind Christian cats can seek to bring home
to the sisters who are “fallen” a sense of their
thud. Only 100 took the trouble to vote, so very
little light has been thrown on the question, after
all.
* • * *
In Deniliquin (N.S.W.) gaol recently a
prisoner under sentence for forgery, when being
searched before being locked in the cells for the
night, managed to lock the warder in, after which
he leisurely wandered through the gaol, opening
this door and locking that, until he found himself
free. Another warder soon raised the alarm ; the
services of a fleet-footed prisoner were enlisted,
and he ran the fugitive to earth near the river.
Official ructions are pending, and this free-and-
easy gaol is to be inquired into.
* * • *
Should not boarding-houses be licensed 1
The license would, of
course, entail inspection.
At present in Sydney
there seems to be no limit
on the number of sub-
divisions a proprietor may
make in a house devoted
to boarders. Even small
rooms are cut in two or
three, and the partitions
are of light, thin wood,
that, in case of fire, would
blaze like matchboxes.
Some hotels are as bad as
boarding-houses in this
respect, but the cognisance
the law takes of them
restrains the owners from
carrying the sardine packing
system to the extent it has
attained in the cheap hash-
castle.
* * •
Every gold-laced comman-
dant imported to Maoriland to
reorganise the forces has had
wild battles with the Cabinet.
Gen. Babin gton is no excep-
tion. The Executive has
declined to lay his sugges-
tions before the House in
their present shapo_ as
“it would be inconvenient to do so.” There
was a great howl in the House over the big
defence estimates vote, strong exception being
taken to the appointment of men to highly-salaried
billets on account of political services rendered.
This must all tend to make the path of the mili-
tant Seddon more thorny.
* • * *
There appears to be reasonable ground for
the belief that in the poorer parts of Sydney
horseflesh is now disposed of as butchers’ meat.
The number of old and useless horses disposed of
at the Zoological Gardens has been comparatively
small of late, and the inference is that a more pro-
fitable market has been found for them. There-
fore, a larger and darker suspicion than usual
broods, crow-fashion, over the sausage, and there is
a baleful rumor in the pie. There is no reason to
suppose that horse is likely to contain any more
strange diseases than bullock; he leads an open-
air life hauling the omnibus, and seldom lacks for
exercise. Still, the man who asks for a certain
animal wants to have that animal.
VERY PLAIN.
FOND MAMMA: “ Yes, slices a plain girl now, I admit; hut plain children
generally grow up beautiful .”
TERRIBLE INFANT : “ Oh, yes! Pa said Mrs. M‘Grin must have been a
charming baby.”
During 1901 South Australia had 9079
births—the smallest number, bar that of 1898, for
25 years. In proportion to population the record
was the worst for 50 years. In 1885 there were
12,040 births in S.A. ; last year, with a muoh
larger population, there were 2967 fewer. All
over the Commonwealth the habit of being born
is dying out—slowly, it may be, but very steadily.
There were 110,186 births in the Commonwealth
during 1891, and only 102,221 in 1900, and 1901
promises to be worse than 1900.
• * • *
This is literally how the Age puts it :
At the Wesley Church pleasant Sunday afternoon
yesterday, Miss Alice Oorrick sang a solo, and in the
evening rendered I Know That My Redeemer Liveth at
the Unitarian Church.
* * * •
An ancient gentleman of 65, who described
himself very frankly as a used-up and thrown-
aside squatter’s dummy, applied early this month
for a pension at Mulwala (N.S.W.). By his own
account, he had dummied for one squatter off and
on for a good part of a lifetime, and had handed
over three selections, receiving a watch and a
saddle by way of consideration. In his old age,
when he probably had become too shaky to tell a
coherent tale to the Land Board when he went to
take up another selection, or tottered too much to
reside steadily on a selection when he got it, he
was (so he said) pensioned off with £25 a year for
life, but after enjoying this affluence for two years
it was stopped. According to the evidence, the
old gentleman’s son had also been in the dummy-
ing business, which seems to suggest that taking
up land is hereditary. The son, it was alleged,
didn’t even get a watch or a saddle when he
handed his selection over. It seems to be a very
poor game.
* • * *
An extraordinary instance of justices’
justice was that at New Angledool (N.S.W.) on
Sept. 8. Billy Leach, a half-caste, was charged
with “living with an aboriginal woman” and
sentenced, apparently without the hearing of any
sworn evidence, to three months gaol. Leach
was a hard-working fellow, and the woman,
“Weetalibah Nelly,” had been his consort for
more than five years ; she also was a half-caste.
The parties were not married, but if dispensing
with the marriage ceremony is going to be a penal
Offence there will be need for a big loan to build
new gaols in N.S.W. The Bulletin knows of
high legal authorities who have dispensed with it
so often that they hardly remember what it is
like.
» * * »
“The art-sales drought," writes The
Bulletin’s London correspondent, “is likely to
be accentuated to the Australian Angelo by the
exportation from here of over 300 paintings by
English and Scottish A.R.A.’s., etc. They go to
Joubert’s Melbourne Exhibition “on sale or
return.” The artist pays only 15s. to 80s. and, if
his picture is bought by a Toorakian or Potts
Pointer, 15 per cent, commission. The English
market is in a shooking state. Frederick Goodall,
R.A., in failing for £11,886, pleaded the decreased
value of art by living artists. So, artists, die that
your pictures may live."
* • * *
Camperdown (Vic.), though but a small
glace, produced two cases of triplets on a recent
unday. Camperdown seems a mighty bad place
for a poor man to live at.
• * * *
Of the whole population of Victoria one in
268 is under confinement in the asylums as insane.
The percentage of female recoveries in 1882 was
about 61J. In 1901 it had fallen to about 35|.
With regard to male patients, the recoveries in
1897 fell below 27 per cent. The proportion of
lunatics per 10,000 of pof ulation in Victoria is 37,
Q. 30, N.S.W. 29, S.A. 26. In England the rate
is 29 per 1000. The Victorian curative system has
been shown to be a hopeless failure.
Ju st to
give the pub-
lic a relish for
its pork, this
observation
by a contribu-
tor :
The cat was
aged and had
lost an eye. The
sparrow was ac-
tive and chirp-
ing gaily in the
centre of the
road in Rath-
down-st., Carl-
ton. The cat
was about to
make a spring
on the sparrow,
when a but-
cher’s cart
driven by a
lad whistling
“ Dolly Grey,”
rolled round the
corner and over
the one - eyed
cat, which de-
parted this life.
An hour later,
a drove of pigs
came along and
rooted in the
gutter and else-
where for re-
freshment. The
cat was sighted,
and two grun-
ters were soon
engaged in a
snout to snout
tussle, until no
cat was left.
The children
just let loose
from mid - day
school watched
the contest
closely and bet buttons as to which pig would secure the
tail of the cat. The grunter with an extra twist in his
tail was declared the winner. Then a blue-eyed, fair-
haired little school-maid tossed her lunch over the fence
saying she “ didn’t eel hungry.”
* * * •
Stewart Norman Croll, the Albert Park
boy who made love with a revolver, has been dis-
posed of, 10 years being his portion. Croll nearly
beat the life out of the girl of his heart with the
butt-end of the “gun,” after shooting her here
and there, and told the Court that he went “ off
his head ” at a certain temperature, and recol-
lected nothing of what happened after. Chief
Justice Madden evidently regarded the prisoner,
a youngster in his teens, as a vicious ruffian, and
dealt with him as such, although the community
may be grateful that no floggings were thrown in
to assure a proper regret on Croll’s part because
Nature had chosen to make him a specimen of the
abnormal. The Judge failed to recognise in Croll
a pronounced type of a peculiar class of perverts
clearly understood by scientific criminalogists.
The probability is that Croll was utterly irre-
sponsible, and while it is necessary to safeguard
society against men like him, gaol is not the place
to which an enlightened community would send
the victims of psychosis. As for moral homilies,
his Honor might as well go to the Zoo. and lec-
ture the leopard in fluent, _ grammatical, well
rounded sentences on the advisability of changing
his spots.
* * * *
If the judge had not intervened to stop the
Hall divorce case (Adelaide) it is commonly under-
stood that counsel felt equal to going on for fully
six weeks or more. Each of the leading counsel
was getting 25 guineas a day. It is a foolish
person who makes haste to conclude the hen that
lays 25 guineas a day.
ONE FOR THE MAN IN BLACK.
“Ah, my man, beware of the devil in the bottle .”
“ 'Strewth! an who are you that you run down
the devil? Ain’t ’e your best friend? Why,
if it weren’t for 'im you wouldn't 'ave your
job."
Hobart City Council is advertising for a
pair of caretakers for the local Town Hall. Must
be married and reasonably young, but “ without
encumbrance.” Any number of similar billets are
ad vertised in Australia. When highly-respectable
Bumbles and others describe this rising young
nation simply as “encumbrance,” and sack the
parents for helping to increase the population, no
wonder the birth-rate is low.


May Vivienne’s book on VVesbralia has
had many good paragraphs written about it by the
London press, and its value in advertising the
state is thus referred to by the Moaning Post :
“It may well be recommended to the attention of
anyone who meditates a trip to the country, for
it would seem to have been specially on their
behalf that the author has set forth the manifold
resources of this Western part of the Australian
Commonwealth. ’ ’*
Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address.—■
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-street
or King-street, Sydney.*
Patents for Inventions.— Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.*
THE BEST IN THE WORLD
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Australia’s
Leading Tonic
Beverage.
The belated census returns of religions in
Victoria show that in the past decade there is
an Episcopalian decrease from 37.33 per cent, of
the population to 36.51 percent., against a Presby-
terian increase from 14.94 to 16.15, and a Methodist
ditto from 14.15 to 15.21, while Catholics have
remained absolutely stationary (22.24 per cent.),
and Jews have declined from 0.58 to 0.50 percent.
The Sceptics, among whom the statist, with
pleasing cynicism, classes “those who have either
no apparent religious belief or appear to be alto-
gether dissatisfied with the old-established and
popular religions of the world ” —number 4901.
Said statist diagnoses no less than 166 different
religions, among whom are 2 Glassites, 1 Grace-
walking Brother (suggestive of the story of
Colonel Quagg who used to cowhide that denomi-
nation), 3 Relatives of Jesus (females), 3 Latitu-
dinarians, 1 Eclectic, 1 Zoroastrian, 1 Taoist, 2
Shintos, 1 Sanhu, 1 Bi-Deist, 1 God Absolute (this
citizen didn’t actually designate himself a God,
but that is his religion), 1 Historien, 1 Infidel, 3
Scientists, and 1 who Believes in a Knowledge of
All. The statist also accounts for 32 individuals
whom he classifies as jesters or eccentrics, viz.,
1 whose religion is Anything Handy, 6 Calli-
thumpians, 1 Chuckite, 1 Don’t Know, 1 Fanatic,
1 Free Dietarian, 1 Heretic, IGo as You Please,
2 Think for Themselves, 4 Thistles, 1 Various,
1 Windshiftarian, 5 L.S.D., 1 worshipper of
Bacchus and Mammon. Surely the L.S.D.
religion and the worshippers of Bacchus and
Mammon and the Windshiftarian creed are
lamentably understated ! And why were not the
Believers in Property enumerated ? Of the 651
aborigines in the State the C.E. has captured 244,
Presbyterians 126, Methodists 71, Baptists 14,
Lutherans 10, Moravians 100, R.C. 14, and
Salvarmy 3. The rest are heathens and believers
in Native Bear.
* • * *
M.L. Governor Ranfurly is getting little
support for his pet scheme of a Veterans’ Home.
He has been stumping the various centres to
thronged audiences who go away and don’t part
up. The Jingo fever is played out, most people
are heartily sick of the antics of Dick Seddon
abroad, and pockets are buttoned up in expecta-
tion of hard times. So, despite the willingness of
the top-side community to oblige Ranfurly, the
scheme languishes. Otago district even carried a
resolution that it was not good enough for that pro-
vince to contribute to whose site was to
be in Auckland. Fancy establishing a home for
decayed veterans in Otago, where the sleet rushes
at you horizontally half the time—cold, sodden,
boggy, windy, sunless Presbyterian Otago !
* • * *
At the Anglican Synod in Sydney, last
week, Canon Boyce gave a list of 18 applications
for relief made in three days at a city rectory. In
nearly every case the applicant and her children
were on the verge of actual starvation. Discus-
sion ensued on the Canon’s report, as a result of
which it was decided :
That the first work of the committee should be to
provide for the spiritual needs of the poor and populous
parishes of the city and immediate suburbs.
WHEN THE PATRIOTIC TAP IS
TURNED ON.
RETURNED COHENTINGENTER (after fruitless
attempts to get back his position): “Well,
will you promise to give me a place if another
war breaks out? ”
The Sydney police have had some more
greatness thrust upon them. It is not enough
that they have to look after electoral-rolls, tote-
shops, gambling-schools, and larrikin “pushes”;
and, incidentally, to give an eye to burglars and
sandbaggers, so Inspector-General Fosbery, in his
wisdom, has decreed that the unfortunate copman
is to keep his ears open for the sound of the
running water-tap, and bring to book the mis-
creant who watereth his garden with a hose, or
feloniously disporteth himself in a plunge-bath.
• * * *
“ J.F.D.” : Advocated, some years back,
the letting of church interiors for advertising pur-
poses. Well, it is not far off. Struck a parson’s
residence, in a Sydney suburb, adorned on the
gable end with a large advt. for Somebody’s
Bashed Oats. I canvassed the parson, and he
looked hungry enough to eat a year’s payment for
the advt. at one meal. I delicately hinted at the
sign while conversing with him, but he seemed
too tired to enter on the subject.
A Melbourne telegraph operator tells a
story of how a prominent citizen, in a state of
great joy, rolled into the office on Mafeking night
and wrote out a wire which nobody could
decipher. “So? —(hie). Mus’’ave’nother try. ”
Hurling his belltopper into a corner, and the
remains of his ‘ ‘ brolly ” after it, and kicking a chair
across the room, he knelt on the floor at a table,
grabbed a pen and a telegraph-form, and wrote:
“ Mafeking relieved. Hurroo. Everybody glori-
ously drunk,” in the most beautiful copperplate
possible. Many a drunk who can’t even think
properly standing up can write quite coherently if
he gets his head down on a level with his hand.
• * * •
“F.” : Judge Williams, in the course of
another of his Pleasant Melbourne Sunday
Afternoon addresses, told his audience that
his own creed or belief was subject to alter-
ation every ten years, and that “ very few
honest, thinking men or women could
truly say that their opinions and beliefs
had not altered.” Judge Williams knows
very little of human nature. The
average man who thinks he has changed
his religious belief never had a belief
before he began to think about the
change in it. And the average woman
accepts her belief as an unalterable
thing from which she is deriving com-
fort. The more uncomfortable it is, the
more she tries to persuade herself that
she is deriving comfort from it.
* * *
A telling commentary on the talk
of Judges and lawyers generally about
Gentleman One’s amenability to the
criminal law over and above his amena-
bility to the Full Court was solicitor E.
R. Abigail’s defence of a limb of the
law in a recent Sydney case. Abigail
urgued that inasmuch as Gentleman
One had been wiped off the roll for a
particular offence, that offence should
not afterwards be brought before a court
of law. The argument is bad, no doubt,
but it has the sanction of common practice.
Nothing occurs in a more marked epi-
demic form than vaccination. A town which gets
it in an aggravated way one year, often has no
trace of it again for a decade or so. According to
the official report made to the Assembly (which,
of course, is desperately interested in such things)
it was Bourke’s turn last year ; of 2015 “ cases ”
which the Govt, vaccinators had for the whole of
N.S.W., that poor, little, woeful township
claimed 837, nearly half of them adults.
* * * *
What ought to have been a highly enter-
taining Victorian breach-of-promise case is pro-
bably settled by this time.
The defendant never had
a ghost of a show to escape
damages, and thequestion
from the first was how
much less than £lO,OOO
would theplaintiff’slaw-
yer advise herto accept.
£3OOO was offered and
declined a fortnight
ago. A goodly sum,
considering that the
aggrieved young
woman holds£3oo
worth of jewell-
ery tributes, in-
cluding a gold
watch en-
graved with
the initials of
the name she
was to take at
the altar. Yet
not goodly
enough. The rash
wooer whose
wealth happened to
him suddenly through
an accident some few
years ago, is old enough
to know his own mind,
but he popped the ques-
tion to a tea-shop waitress
before consulting the mind
of his sister, and co-
legatee. The sister takes
the unexpected family
wealth much more seriously
than her brother does; and
when she heard about the
waitress there was a cry of
horror. Such a “ mesalliance ”
would nip the family’s bong-
tong in the bud. The erring brother didn’t
yield to persuasion without a struggle. He
sent his charmer a pen-and-ink sketch of his
heart—fine, plump heart, like a bullock’s —
pierced by Cupid’s skewer, and he actually
appointed a near date and a distant place for
the blissful wedding. But there was no wed-
ding, and the dark shadow of a writ came between
the sundered affections.
The Cue (Westralia) Quarter Sessions has
fixed the value of a nose at three months’ gaol.
It was, certainly, an Italian nose—a Grecian
might be cheaper. The ornament was lost during
a small dispute over a timber-cutting contract.
* * * . *
Twenty alleged murders and 850 violent
deaths in London in the last five weeks —the cable
says. The aftermath of the war !
YOUNG AUSTRALIA'S 'CUTE
REASONING.
MILLICENT (aged 3½): “ Sometimes I am a bad
girl, and then you won't give me any lollies,
will you, mamma?"
MAMMA : “ No, indeed."
MILLICENT (after a pause): “Mamma, it's not
sometimes now, is it?" (She got them.)
The happy death of the unfortunate heir
of the Duke of Norfolk—an idiotic atrophied
shadow of a human being from his birth —has
called attention again to the general degeneration
of “aristocratic families” in Europe. This is
specially notable among royal families; there’s
hardly a throne which can cast its shadow to a
comfortable length at sunset without striking a
gibbering idiot; and dynasties on every side are
threatened with extinction because there is no
heir and no chance of an heir. The Pope (who is
a cuter man than even the Rev. Dill Macky gives
him credit for) has noticed this, and, in an effort
to remedy the evil, so far as his church is con-
cerned, “ has issued a Note to the Reigning Houses
of Europe stating that no more dispensations will
be granted for marriages between blood relatives.
He advises that Princes of Blood Royal who belong
to the Roman Church should contract marriages out-
side the Royal families in order that the degenera-
tion and mental inferiority caused by the consan-
fuineous marriages of the past may be remedied.”
n short, a little milkmaid is prescribed for the
monarchy’s constitution. At present the toughest-
looking royal family in Europe is that of Sweden
which calls itself Ponte Corvo, but is really Police
Court —or was only four generations ago, when its
ancestor used to defend the drunk and put in an
alibi for the dog-stealer. Next to it, physically,
may probably be reckoned the royal family of
Obrenovitch, which dealt in pigs so recently that
it is still suspected of keeping a side of bacon
under its throne as something to fall back upon in
case of sudden deposition.
• * • *
“ Bon ” writes :
Poor old “ Dad ” never comes to town but trouble is his
portion. One of him added to the gaiety of Melbourne
during Show week, thusly : Wishing to cross Swanslon-
street at the Town Hall, he carefully paused till two
trams were approaching each other at a right angle to
his course; then, grasping his courage and a decayed
carpet-bag, he made a frantic effort to race across in front
of them. Arrived in the middle of the down track and
brought to bay by the language of the gripman, he pulled
up dead. So did the tram, with the front of the dummy
gently pressing the base of “ Dad’s ” spine. Then de-
scended on him Nemesis in the shape of his wife Betsy,
fire in her eye and a shapeless “brolly” in her hand.
Grasping “Dad’s” arm, she dragged him in front of a
’bus and then stopped to remonstrate. The ’bus-man’s
language was awful as he pulled up, and just then
“ Dad’s ” carpet-bag fell open, and one of the horses
started coughing into it. Roused to unusual energy,
“ Dad ” shouted to Betsy: “Blast it, ol’ ’ooman, don’t
make sich a fool o’ yerself ! ” Then the circus started.
It was short and swift. One welt with the “hrolly” on
the head, another on the loins, and two vigorous thrusts
in the small ribs, and “ Dad ” once more resumed his posi-
tion as a mere humble incident in the family. The crowd
cheered, and the party again stopped the traffic, while
the lady addressed her audience as “a lot o’ grinnin’
goanners.” She waved her umbrella round her head as
she said it, and it struck another tram-car, and the car
knocked it out of her hand, and it flew sideways and
swept away “Dad’s” hat, and a cab went over both of
them, and as “Dad” dropped the carpet-bag and ran
after the ruins she called after him and denounced him
as an “ ijit.”
• * * *
The census reveals the fact that there are
eight counties in N.S.W. which don’t possess a
public-house. One, the county of Poole, contains
only two dwellings—and one of them is a one-
rcomed shanty with a hermit in it.
“ The Prooshan ” writes :
Don’t agree with “Sprats” (B. 30/8/’O2) that "female
teachers escape the altar oftener than female followers of
any other trade or profession.” Scores of girl teachers
marry for the very reason that they are teachers and not
barmaids—we’ll say—who practically kill the goose that
lays the golden egg if they marry. Personally I have ob-
served that, wherever Miss “ 2B ” controls the “ Infant ”
school, there is always a Mr. “ 2A ” who, if single, is
mightily prone to ask Miss “2B” to accompany him to
the altar and run another infant school on private lines.
There are certainly some very tough spinsters in the pro-
fession, hut then they would be tough, and sp'insters, in
any profession. In fact, they represent the spinster-
profession.
Protest from a Maoriland visitor to
N.S.W. :
Dear Bulletin.— Training it recently from Bathurst to
Sydney we had in the carriage a man obviously in an
advanced stage of consumption. He coughed and spat
on the floor until he became exhausted ; then took the
glass and filled it with water. But the water causing
him to choke, he coughed right into the glass. Presently
he lay back and seemed to go to sleep, and the day being
warm flies swarmed over his feet and the expectorated
matter on the floor, and every time he moved his feet
they crawled all over us. I was fairly driven to break my
journey at Lithgow. Now, is it any wonder phthisis is
rampant ? Here were four of us cooped up with this un-
fortunate, with all the windows shut and the bacillus-
charged sputum spread over the floor.
“ Cobram ” : The velvet softness of perfect
claret is obtained in Australian wine but rarely ;
and the why and wherefore seem hidden from the
best-informed. I remember once lunching at
Yarra Glen, in the De Castella and De Pury
country, and our host, who had made wine for 40
years, sent up to a neighbor for a dozen bottles of
“ze old wine.” In every bottle of that were
yards of velvet. It was worth £lO a dozen in
London. But why not the same sort every year ?
Ah, why not ? “It came” in that year, and no
more is known about it. Yet soil is the same and
climate varies little in'the Yarra Glen from decade
to decade.
AN OUTLAWESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, eyes of keen desire !
Oh, lips with love abloom !
How slyly they conspire
To set my heart on fire,
And drag me to my doom 1
Oh, she-ness of your wiles!
Oh, he-ness of my heart!
The glee-ness of your smiles
Our we-ness reconciles,
And rapture doth impart 1
But do not swear to me
To be entirely mine
Through life’s monotony—
For love is always free
That swims in eyes like thine !
NARRANGHI BOORI.
“COMFORT YE, MY PEOPLE.”
“ The Harbor Trust is not to blame, neither is the
Government, but it is very easy for others —the Mayor,
for instance—to find fault,” Premier See declares, in ex-
planation of the foreshore resumption fiasco. Mr. Hick-
son, on behalf of the Harbor Trust, does not think the
Government, is greatly to blame, because urgently neces-
sary work for which the money was voted has not been
done. Mr. See, on behalf of the Government, is per-
fectly sure that the Harbor Trust is not to blame.
Nobody, therefore, is to blame for a state of things with
which, as the State Premier rightly says, “it is very easy
to find fault.
“ Oh, pray be calm,
Show no alarm,
And everything you see
Will be, by some mysterious charm,
As right as right can be.
This comfort vague
About the Plague
Should, stop remarks unjust,”
Say the Potentate
Of the hapless State,
And the Boss of the Harbor Trust 1
“ At finding fault
Please call a halt,
Do not attempt to quiz ;
It’s very easy, finding fault
(It is, by Jove, it is !)
We’re anxious still
We should fulfil
The duty that is thrust
Upon this State,”
Say the Potentate
And the Boss of the Harbor Trust 1
“ It’s most unwise
To criticise,
And also most unfair,
And friendly silence we’d advise
As suited to the Mayor 1
If we were rash
To spend the cash
He should not make a dust —
Let’s trust to Fate,”
Say the Potentate
And the Boss of the Harbor Trust!
“ Leave a’l to us,
And don’t discuss
Reports that go the rounds.
’Tis most absurd to make a fuss
About Four Million Pounds 1
It is— oh, well,
A bagatelle !
It need not be discussed 1
It well can wait,”
Say the Potentate
And the Boss of the Harbor Trust 1
Here’s comfort, friend,
For those who lend,
As everyone must own ;
What boots it, friend, how we should spend
This paltry little loan ?
Yet some you know
Incline to show
A feeling of disgust
With the Potentate
Of the Cornstalk State,
And the Boss of the Harbor Trust!
W. T. GOODGE.


IS
lisf\
RAINCOATS.
‘e^AV’CMETTES
Are the Ideal Rubrics
for
A SET OF TEETH ONE GUINEA
Beautiful and Lifelike in Appearance' and Guaranteed Perfect Fit. Absolutely Painless
Extractions and Stopping’s Guaranteed.
,■ Special Attention Given to Regulating Children’s Teeth.
Mr. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R. 0.5., Surgeon Dei tilt, 4-3 Oxfod-st., Sydney
Sold by all Drapers and Hosiers.
KNEIPP LINEN
- UNDERWEAR
Porous. Cool. Clean. Unshrinkable.
Recommended by Medical Profession.
Prevents Prickly Heat, Eczema,
Allows the Body to Breathe.
CHARLES
MEIDSIECK
1 FACILE PRINCE PS. | | SEMPER IDEM. ]
UOHANAN WHISKY
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, September 23, 1902.
My Dear Arini.—
I write to you with the pen which Melba
used just before leaving Sydney on Friday
evening. What she wrote is in my autograph-
book, and (I am about as sentimental as a buzz-
saw) you may have pen and book and a bunch of
boronia from the Melba corsage for £25,000. The
very last gift Melba gifted before leaving Sydney
and “ The Australia ” was the cake of soap with
which she washed her octave compass—major and
minor fingers. She washed them in the key of
E Minor, staccatto, rallentando, diminuendo ; and
the one who was gifted stood fingering Madame’s
Gobelin-blue bed-hangings and muttering some-
thing about “who wanted the morning star,”
knowing that the soap would presently be hers.
As befitted a star of the first magnitude, Melba
was generous with her rays. “ I expected some-
one that would'dazzle me,” said the soap-blessed
one. “Someone who would be as strange as—■
as .” “Pictures ought not to be too pic-
turesque,” broke in Melba. Then she strolled
meditatively past her sister (golden-haired Mrs.
Patterson) into an adjoining room of her suite and
looked reflectively at Burne-Jones’ “ Mirror of
Venus.” “ Yes,” she continues, “ nothing
astonishes people so much as the absolutely
natural when they expect the abnormal.” ’
As one of the sapient interviewers remarked :
“Melba converses most intellectually.” “Itis a
pity,” said someone, “that you can’t stop to inhabit
these beautifully decorated rooms till—at least till
this lorry-load of flowers fades.” “I take all my
flowers with me to-night,” replied Melba. “I have
a note of the names of all the senders.” And just
then someone with a little trolly came and trollied
away the basket of orchids with a Swinburne verse
tacked to the handle, and the skeleton umbrella
disguised with pink roses, carnations and daffodils,
bearing the card of a Personage, and the lyre of
purple violets with strings of white, and the
wreaths and waratahs and baskets of white lilies,
and the more roses—and another wreath with a
Tennysonian motto. And all the time the girl
with the cake of soap was standing by
looking as if she wanted to suck it. “ I cannot
understand,” said Melba, “how one of your people
could speak of me from London as a Tittle body.’”
“ From the extreme corner of the half-crown niche
you would look like a pollywog doll,” was the
reply, “and it was from that dizzy height he saw
you.” Melba is really about sft. Gin., and not
thin at that. I would not recognise her from her
portraits ; neither did the people at the Redfern
station, when she boarded the Southern express.
Her faqe is strong and calm, somewhat Italian as
to features, non-committal as to expression, of an
olive pallor as to coloring ; and the eyes very
dark, longish ; and with little white showing—
eyes that take one’s measure, and size and
sum one, and are bright as a magician’s.
When leaving, Melba looked unutterably weary.
As the papers said that she was remaining in
Sydney for two days there was no crowd. A group,
attracted by the trolly of floral devices, ranged up.
She came through the barriers dressed in black
and fine sables, with her sister and brother-in-law,
her companion and Mr. Musgrove, and entered
her car . and got behind the curtains. The only
exhilarating items were the efforts of her
personal and managerial staff to keep Mr. Dan
O’Connor out of the car—efforts of such diplomacy
as would have done credit to the representatives
of a Great Power, efforts that were entirely
successful—but the O’Connor’s posy was inside all
the same. Report says that Melba is certainly not
mad with joy over her railway journeying.
A kindly thing Melba did directly on
arriving in Brisbane and reading her letters, was
to tell her manager to reserve seats for a man who
had ridden for a doctor for her when she was sick
on a night 20 years ago. That man has a good
memory (he wrote reminding her) and he cast his
horseflesh upon the long bush track to some
purpose.
That was a ghastly shark item, the story that
prefaced a Sydney reporter’s interview with Melba
at Brisbane. Whilst they awaited the Miowera,
the journalists amused themselves fishing off the
light-ship or pilot-steamer, and one of their catches
was a 12ft. shark. Someone ripped it open from
head to tail, and others chopped off its jaws to get
the teeth; but, instead of sinking, as all
expected, when turned adrift again, the
wretched fish, disembowelled as it was, swam
about and around the vessel. None of us hold a
brief for the shark, of course. That particular
fish, or any of his family, would as soon eat the
men who chopped it up so hideously as it would
the lady whom they awaited. But he wouldn’t
have the indecency to grin over his ugly meal and
describe to his fellow sharks with horrible realism
how the writing man looked “just when he saw
my dorsal fin, the curious feel he had when
between my teeth, and the journalistic wriggles
inside of me.” That his restraint would be in-
stinctive and n conscious has nothing to do with
the case.
Have you seen the new veils of ventilated
chiffon ? White chiffon with tiny ventilators like
fairy button-holes of black, and black chiffon aired
with white holes. Also the complexion veils of
fine black mesh, plain, or patterned over white or
faintly-pink chiffon. To the beholder, the wearer
of the complexion veil looks beautiful; she herself
cannot see the beholder; so this must have been
the kind of veil which Omar struck, and of which
he wrote, “ There was the veil through which I
might not see.”
Flannel flowers, first of the season, such big
ones, unusually big the florists say, are with us.
This has been the dullest September, these florists
allege, for many a long year, and those who bought,
as many of them did, the daffodil yield of certain
nurseries or gardens at the beginning of the
flower season, have lost heavily, because there
have been no balls during race-week. No club
balls or big private entertainments where the
mantel-pieces and bannisters are flower-swathed !
One leading flowery firm had but two small de-
s irative contracts—just for dinner-tables.
A bad oyster swallowed in Melbourne has bee
like to make Max Schluter’s music mute for ever
more—at least, so far as the choir terrestrial is
concerned. He has been ill for some weeks, and,
at his farewell concert last week, his friends feared
a collapse, or fiddling that would do himself injus-
tice. But he bowed through triumphantly. The
financial success of the concert was mainly due to
Mrs. Boesen, the Danish Consul’s wife. Schluter
leaves Australia on Monday, to start his American
tour.
A correspondent tells me: “I know a man
who, prior to leaving Sydney for the Coronation,
held a private sale of his lately-deceased
wife’s personal effects. Setting apart one par-
ticular room of the house, he removed the
furniture and decorated the walls with various
articles of attire. To each garment a price ticket
was attached, and the general effect was like a fine
second-hand shop. Then friends were bidden to
the bargain-sale. Complete costumes went for
half-a-sovereign ; smart hats for half-a-crown ;
underskirts and lingerie .”
Sydney Hunt Club got into trouble last week at
Kensington. The hounds led the hunt into a
most deceptive swamp, and about a dozen of the
huntsmen, including two ladies, were bogged and
covered with foul black mud. The horse 3, in some
cases, had to be pulled out with ropes. The
hounds got away by themselves, no one being able
to follow. One member, in trying to save his
horse, was nearly smothered. If it hadn’t been
for the timely aid of about 100 men with ropes the
Hunt Club might have been lost. The most
serious part of the business was that the sivage
salt-herring which the Hunt was pursuing with
great gallantry, escaped completely.
Sydney University goes a-carnivalling next
week in honor of its jubilee. For a whole week,
morning, noon, and night, it will paint Sydney a
delicate ash-color, and it won’t go home till the
end of the week, let alone till morning. There are
to be lectures, receptions, garden parties, literary
addresses, and conversaziones. Prof. MacCallum
leads off at 11.30 (a.m.) on “University Influ-
ence.” Prof. Anderson Stuart will speak on
“ The Majority of the Medical School.” Look at
that text from any angle, and you will discover no
promise of giddiness in it. Not a vestige of fluff.
Sir Josiah Symon’s lecture (unnamed) will coun-
teract the laok of thistledown in Prof. Stuart’s if
it is on “The Humors of Divorce, with
Notes on Breach of Promise.” There will be
a harbor excursion, but the glowing hours
for flying feet will be when the University
Sports Union has its ball in Sydney Town Hall
on October 2nd. Their Ex’s, the, State Governor
and Vice-Admiral and Ladies Rawson and
Beaumont will be present, and no matter where
you live, you’ll find a special train or tram waiting
to run you home, at any hour you please, after the
ball. The hon. secs., A. G. M. Pitt and C. S.
Browne, are to be caught alive at Selborne Cham-
bers for tickets.
At Sydney Palace Theatre, on Sept. 29th, the
S.U.A.D.S. will play “The Critic,” with Mrs.
Lumsden Hare in the leading part. A curtain-
raiser, “The Threshold,” written by Mr. Norman
Gough, will precede it.
Friends of Miss Irene Marks will be glad to
hear that she has almost recovered from the
recent accident, caused by the bolting of her
hansom-cab horse. She was unconscious for
nearly a week. Mrs. Philip Morton, who was
with her at the time, was unhurt, beyond receiving
a severe nervous shock.
My Brisbane correspondent writes:—
“ All social events have paled into insignificance
before the fact of Nellie Melba’s arrival ‘in the
home land.’ Rumor says that one enthusiastic
admirer has bottled the dingy sand whereon her
royal foot first rested. Nellie has risen superbly to
the occasion—taken our Mayoress’s two hands in
hers, unearthed a ‘ dear local friend ’ (Miss O’Con-
nor, a very modest lady dominie); has signed her
Australian message with becoming flourish in the
lucky reporter’s note book ; has let the tear-drop
fall for ‘dear old dad waiting 14 years for a
glimpse of his girl’; and has posed for the local
cameras for reproduction in the ‘dailies,’ said pro-
duction giving a ‘ fair, fat and forty ’ appearance
which is slanderous and ought to be suppressed
by Act of the Continuous Government.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ A great crowd in the Spencer-st. special pen,
Saturday morning, waiting to how-de-do Melba—
Mayor Gillott; Captain Collins, the band-box
Naval Commander, more titivated than his wife;
Melba’s relatives (the honey-pots on whom the
small social flies descended); Tom Patterson’s
baby girl, tricked forth in fluffy blue and white,
and kissed by men and women in view of the im-
portant fact that she is the diva’s niece.
“ The train is in. The crowd heaves, lunges,
and sways. A robust, brown-and-red-complexioned
face—strong, cheerful, excited —is focussed for a
minute in the State car. The crowd sets up a
cheer. The Mayor shoulders his way forward,
and Melba is recognised. Wide smiles break over
her ruddy face. A fringe of brown curls extends
from ear to ear—after a fashion of 20 years ago, it
seems. A flat, dowdy hat of navy blue, a rather
knocked-out dress of blue and tan, a matronly
figure—and you have Melba.
“Waves of excitement surge up in the diva’s
face. She nearly eats her welcomers. She swoops
down upon the baby niece with a fresh access of
joy. ‘My darling !’she breaks out between two
kisses. She is laughingly steered by Mr. Musgrove
to the carriage-steps. Springs in—heaps of energy
there—and starts the flower-pelting. Bunches
of violets are flung in all directions to a waving corn-
field of hands. Then Lord Dick Nevill is sighted ;
the only V.R'. deputy on the spot. Melba is for
flinging him a daffodill, but hesitates, beckons,
laughs, nods, and repeats her ‘ Thanks, many
thanks ! ’ Then, half-distracted with excitement,
she pelts her purse instead of a bouquet at an
eager hand in the crowd. She discovers her
mistake. The smile disappears. She is in a
comical fright. ‘.My purse—just there! ’ she
tells the sentries in blue. The carriage starts.
Melba still cries out for herpurse. It is recovered,
handed up, and the smiles gush again.
“ The family arrangements pending in some
quarters for the Melba guinea concert-treat take
this shape: Pa and ma go in, take their seats,
hear the first part, then move out at the interval,
and give up their seats to two of their offspring.
Several families have decided to go halves over
the treat in this fashion. There is great grief in
all parts over the purchase of tickets. Clubmen,
who paid hall-porters and waiters lialf-a-guinea
to gather the coupons at midnight, and had to
content themselves with middling seats, find now
the pick of the front seats going at 255. Every-
one fell in.
“ All kinds of compliments have been flying
between George Musgrove and Rupert Clarke of
late, and rumor puts the latter down as the
mysterious ‘ gentleman ’ who has proferred the
third fancy price for a seat at the charity concert
that Melba may give in the Exhibition. Rupert
occupies the box nowadays in pally fashion with
Manager Musgrove.
“The cards for the afternoon kow-tow to Melba
by ‘ her former schoolfellows ’ bear the italicised
words: ‘ Not transferable,’ and all are warned
that a rigorous watch will be set at the door,
and on no account will any absent-minded
person be passed in without the bit of precious
pasteboard. At first, word went that the party
was to be regarded as a private one, and the Press
would not be invited. Later, nice little notes
from Miss Fraser retracted the original veto, and
the Incas were invited to meet the other potentate.
“ I have just been reading that among the com-
petitors at some suburban A.N.A. contests was
yet another gifted sixteen-year-old, whose voice
was so similar in quality to that of Miss Amy
Castles that the adjudicator (Herr de Chaneet)
said that if she appeared in the Melb. Town
Hall in Miss Castles’ clothes, those present would
hardly know the difference. Surely it is about
time Herr de Chaneet ‘found’ a voice or two
like somebody else’s—say lima di Murska’s or
Albani’s. Since the original Castles boom, one Herr
or Monsieur or Signor and another have been
assiduously employed in going round to the small
and harmful A.N.A. competitions and assur-
ing open-mouthed schoolgirls that Amy Castles
was never in the same street with them. There
must be a peculiar quality about the Australian
climate, or something, if every girl soprano has
the same kind of voice, and it bodes badly for
our export singing trade, because London sighs
for novelties where art is concerned, whatever
may be its demand in the way of butter or
rabbits. I have heard a few of these budding
Amys, and they struck me as mostly hard-voiced
youngsters with no more real ‘ sing ’ in them than
a distressed locomotive.
“ Isn’t it about time for this country to discover
a typical Australian kind of ‘popular demon-
stration ? ’ Clearly there is no chance of acclima-
tising the ‘ good old British cheer ’ that did duty
for Australian enthusiasm in the days when
natives were few hereabouts and Europeans were
many. Melba must have been struck by the fact
that, whereas thousands of Melbourne folk took
the trouble to stand around in the streets for the
sake of a stare, they didn’t cheer. The impulse
to shout ‘ Hooray! ’ was lacking, because the
Australian notion of a fitting cry of welcome is
something different from ‘ Hooray ! ’ presuming
that Jim and Joe care to make any noise at all.
At the gates of the Harper residence in Toorak,
which the Woman of the Hour has rented for
her temporary Melbourne home, a little crowd
assembled to see her arrive. If they came to
welcome her, they did it in grim silence. Perhaps
they tried to utter the ‘good old British cheer,’
but couldn’t. ‘ Hooray ! ’ stuck in their throats.
The simple foolishness of that ancient exclamation
stands condemned by the sons of the fathers who
imported the habit. Why not adopt ‘ Bush !’ as
the Commonwealth cry of greeting ? ‘ Bush ! ’
would be better than ‘ Rats ! ’ although ‘ Rats ! ’
seems to express Australian sentiment in general.
“ Most women shudder at their first glimpse of
Sandow, standing on his revolving pedestal,
exercising his muscles for show purposes. The
average woman isn’t anxious to watch the physical
wheels of humanity go round. She is little in-
terested in machinery of any kind, and Man,
revealed as a machine, made up of smaller
machines and furnished with palpable air-pump
and bellows, seems rather repellent.
“Mrs. Sandow, who told an interviewer that
‘Melbourne women have pretty faces, but walk
badly, ’ knows now that our folk are impatient of
criticism. One of them voiced the feelings of all
when she said audibly coming out of the Opera
House t’other night, ‘ Too bad that Sandow’s wife '
is not on show ! After what she said, I do want to
see that woman walk.
“Dr. Hay, Moderator of the Presbyterian
Federal Assembly, now sitting here, is a notable
specimen of Scottish grit and energy. Put to
work for his living at ten, he struggled on till he
won his M.A. degree, donned his Geneva gown
and ‘ wagged his head in a poupit.’ Then the
fagged scholar was laid aside with lung disease.
After a year’s helplessness his doctors told him to
try Queensland as his last chance. Friends tried
to dissuade the apparently dying man, with his
delicate wife and young children, from attempt-
ing what seemed a forlorn hope. But the
invalid went and, after more than 30 years in
tropical Queensland, he is still very much alive.
He has been constantly to the fore in the northern
Kirk, has annexed his D.D. degree, seen his
children grow up, and now in his old age still has
bairns to feed in the persons of his orphan grand-
children.
‘ ‘ Mr. Guennett, formerly musical critic of the
Argus, was a big, dark, lean Englishman, who
had worked and battled hard all his days. In his
youth a favorite pupil of Charles Halle, he was a
sound musician in a quiet, non-sensational way.
In Melbourne’s palmy days he toiled from dawn
to dark as teacher, church organist, and promoter
of classic concerts, making much money, and, like
everyone else, losing much of his hard-earned
savings in subsequent lean years. His deafness,
which added so much to the labors of his musical
criticism, was the result of an injury to his head,
which left him insensible for weeks. Guennett
taught Melba the piano in the long ago, and was
very proud of his old pupil’s fame and of the
splendid cigarette-case that the cordial ‘ Nellie
sent him. He died a few weeks before her
return, to which he was looking forward almost as
eagerly as her own people.
“ Two V.R. suites were among the swagger con-
tingents that dragged it to the Findon Harriers’
meeting on Saturday. Sassiety hasn’t been fore-
gathering much of late, and this outing saw many
resurrections. Among the frilly people, the
pleasant, brown-costumed figure of Lady Tenny-
son stood out. Her Ex. moved about, in the
easiest and most natural way, chatting and
laughing with all. The Gov. -General, on the
other hand, was large and slow, heavy and dull as
a German on tour.
“The State V.R.’s stayed till the last race.
Lady Silverlocks sat with the Waxellency dame
awhile in the carpeted V.R. tent—the latter
posing like a duchess, and talking like a haughty
beauty. Miss Lesly Madden was in black and a
heavy Polar cape, and flourished many rings on
her bare hands. Mrs. Pursey Chirnside spoilt a
pretty little black-and-white turn-out by excessive
primness. Mrs. Everard Brown erred on the
other side. She was too jaunty in a coachman’s
rain-proof cloak, and a big, flat, feathered hat,
worn at a sport-like angle. An immense lady
went on parade in a theatrical cloak and trailing
skirt of coral-pink.
“Rupert Clarke had run his ‘Fairy States’ jn
Nellie Stewart’s name, and, as luck would have it,
the gentle steed carried off the first of the
Rupertswood Stakes. Lady Tennyson was
switched on for the presentation of trophies, and
all necks were craned to see who would appear on
behalf of Sweet Nell. Rupert blushingly came
forward and took charge of the beautiful diamond
gewgaw himself.
“In this season of economy, the only brave
soul battling with bills for entertainments seems
to be the mistress of ‘ Rippon Lea.’ Her musical
At Home, last Tuesday, was a very frou-frou
crush. Lady Sargood herself was simply habited
in a homely blue, with fur and lace postscripts.
The gentle daughter of the house cut a quiet, but
rather sweet, figure in spotless cream. Grey-
haired women were more decorated than their
frilly daughters.
“This is the age of perennial youth. One
sparky angel of about 60 wore, at ‘ Rippon Lea,’ a
very lively blue, with whisks of white lace and
chiffon fronting the corsage, a coquettish ciel
blue tulle rosette posted under her shell-like ear,
and a gold toque, with a high jaunty dogcart kind
of perch, on her white waving locks. The borrowed
roses in her cheeks vied with an eye-sparkle that
would not shame a lime-lit soubrette.
“ Nellie Stewart off the boards, these days, cuts
a sombre figure. She dresses in full mourning
and much crape, drives about in a closed carriage,
and presents the saddest little countenance any-
one could imagine the sparkling actress capable
of. Bad luck has followed old Dick Stewart’s
death, and the good-hearted Nellie has been
nursing mother and sister in the day, while per-
forming every evening.
“In a recent unsavory case the question of the
dress that is sent on ‘appro.’ came up. Man and
his makers (i.e., tailors) little know the trafficking
between chiffon firms and their female customers.
A woman (say) sends for a nice 15-guineas theatre-
cloak on appro. It is sent, worn on a special
occasion, and returned in cataracts of tissue-paper
and its original folds next day. A ’phone message
explains: ‘So sorry —not at all my fit.’ And the
firm shakes its fist behind its ledger in impotent
rage. The ‘ smart ’ woman who finds herself short
of cash often resorts to such tricks. A costly
blouse is got home on ‘appro.’ It is worn for the
party of that occasion. Next morning a haughty
’phone or written message requests the firm to
send for the blouse. Rugs, counterpanes,
portieres, all kinds of furniture, as well as articles
of adornment, are got temporarily on this ticket,
and, when they have served the special occasion,
returned with regrets that ‘ they did not suit.’
“A Melb. woman who dabbles a bit in Ex-
change deals for female clients possesses a cattery
out St. Kilda way. There is money in the hobby,
and the cat-grower encourages the habit of large
feline families.
Y ours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
“ Vic.” : The worst of the drought is that
small holders will resolve to sell out on the first
opportunity. The capitalist will mop up their
property and build big estates. Then his friend,
the parson, will pull the string of the shower-
bath.
T’other day, a N.S.W. squatter rushed
10,000 drought-stricken sheep over into Vic.,
pastured them for a week, and then sent them
down to the Melbourne wool companies’ sheds to
be shorn. The wool off, they were turned into
the yards, and that night a cold snap came along.
Next morning, over 1500 skin-and-bone carcases
were found piled up in a corner of the yard—six
deep. So far, nobody has been able to fix the
responsibility.
A graceful form and well moulded bust
are essential to perfect beauty. Lacti , the
wonderful “Skin Food” is nature’s remedy for
giving back those essentials when lost through
sickness or action of time, and for supplying them
when constitutionally deficient. It fills all hollows,
develops and gives a charming roundness to neck
and arms. Pi’ice 7s. Gd. per jar, post Bs. 3d.
Westall Guest, Toilet Specialist to the Gov.-
General, 229 Bourke-street, Melbourne.


MADAM, YOUR COMPLEXION.
No woman needs to be told the charm of a clear complexion.
No man or woman can be blind to the beauty of rosy cheeks and the power of
sparkling eyes.
A good complexion in a woman is like a blush on a rose —it’s the last touch of beauty.
And every woman—no matter what her features may be - can have a perfect
complexion.
A perfect complexion comes from pure blooa and pure blood comes from Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.
By enriching the blood, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills give vigor, strength, health,
happiness, and beauty. Read this:
“There used to be no color in my cheeks,” says Miss Mary Nugent, Tarrion Farm, Tarn on Creek, near Brewarrina.
“My blood was poor and watery, and I was terribly pale. I was always tired and weak, and a victim to fearful boring
headaches. Even a light meal caused sharp attacks of indigestion, so that 1 could only eat the lightest food. I had good
medical treatment, but it was not until I took Ur. Williams’ Pink Pills that I regained my strength. Now m3' cheeks are
quite clear and ros3', m3' blood is enriched, indigestion has gone, and I am strong and healthy again.”
Sold by retailers and by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney, 2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d. post free.
I
1
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Obit. : Mr. E. M. Fisher, one of Hobart’s
ancient ship owners, and one of the few who made
money since the departure of the whale from Tas.
waters.
“Charlie'’ Hall, M.H.A. for the V.D.L.
Co.’s territory, Tas., who moved the “secesh”
motion in the Assembly, stood for the last Federal
election —and lost his deposit.
Gordon Stronach, editor of the Sydney
Echo some years ago, has been appointed secretary
to the Royal Commission which has the over-
hauling of the Westralian public service.
Obit. : At Geelong (Vic.), Jas. G. Carr,
aged 83 years. He arrived in Hobart in ’3l and
Port Phillip in ’45. For several years he sat in
Vic. Leg. Council for South Grant and Geelong
West.
Obit. : Fat O’Brien, of Cowwarr (Vic.),
aged 74. He was one of the original prospectors
of the old Walhalla claims, Gippsland, where the
great Long Tunnel has its being. He died a
wealthy pastoralist.
Mr. John Bede Polding Dailey has been
appointed Crown Prosecutor at Goulburn
(N.S.W.) at coming assizes. The first time in 50
years that the name of Dailey has appeared for
the Crown in a criminal case.
Canon Henry Lowther Clarke is to be the
new Bishop of Melbourne. Yet another Clarke !
Melbourne owns 3 Lady Clarkes, 2 Sir Clarkes,
besides numerous offshoots of the great families,
and now the newly-appointed Anglican Bishop is
a Clarke.
Mr. Lee was forced out of the Opposition
leadership more by worry than by any definite
physical disease. Worry is a thing which no
doctor can cure, and Mr. Lee, after a long
struggle, has had to confess himself unfitted by it
for arduous political work.
Monsignor O’Connor stands first in the
list of three candidates proposed to act as coadju-
tor to and ultimately succeed R.C. Bishop Tor-
reggiani, of Armidale. If, as is likely, the Pope
appoints him, the last of the non-Irish R.C.
Bishops will in time depart from N.S.W.
New Queensland Commissioner for Rail-
ways Thallon stands sft. Bin. ; is 55 years of age ;
measures about 45in. round the chest, with a pro-
jecting lower region; speaks broad Scotch, as
all railway experts should ; is fond of shooting,
bowls, chess, and likes to see a good horse-race.
He is a hard worker, but that goes without saying.
Every stout railway boss with a Scotch accent is.
Jimmy Ah Lin, of Cairns, has 800 acres
under sugar-cane, pays wages and expenses
amounting to £ll,OOO per annum, and is the most
slavishly-worshipped, yellow plutocrat in N.
Queensland. Jimmy was one of those Chinese
Cairnsites who once sent in a petition to Bob
Philp wherein they described themselves as the
“Backbone of Cairns !”
SACRILEGE
HIS GREAT PATRON : “ Hullo! I say, Willoughby, ‘heavy
loan burden ,’ eh! What does this mean? What
are you running down loans for? Do you think
you're the dashed Bulletin?”
Arthur Russell, a well-known Melbourne
dentist, who graduated in the legerdemain busi-
ness of yore, was the first Australian thereabouts
to practise with the grip dumb-bells. He brought
a pair from London, when they were the latest
novelty, and is now qualified to pull a tusk from
an elephant.
Premier Jenkins Iscariot, of S.A., was 51
on September 8. Coming to Adelaide a com-
pletely unknown American book : canvasser in 1878
he was in Parliament within nine years, and has
stopped there ever since. He was made a Minister
about eleven years ago, and since then has hardly
ever been out of office.
That unfortunate epileptic spinster who
died lately in Victoria, after spending the best
part of 17 years confined in a shed, was the
daughter of a clergyman, and the man whose shed
she enjoyed has two brothers in the Church.
There seems to be some sort of a moral about this,
though it is hard to dig out.
“D.H.” : Magistrates at Tamata, British
Vew Guinea (1) Green killed, (2) Shanahan
died of fever, (3) Armitt died of general break-
down of the system, (4) A. L. Walker died at
iSamarai, June 10, 1902, of blackwater fever.
They are all dead but “ Crow,” and he fled ; and
whether he’s alive or not is more than I can say.
Captain Staughton, the member for Bourke
West in Vic. State Parliament, who recently
inherited that supposed “pocket constituency”
from his father, is at present on his way from
England with the Coronation Contingent. He
left behind a signed nomination paper, and his
friends will test his chance of election in his
absence.
Old Jimmy Munro, of the many dead
banks, ex-Premier, ex-Agent-General, ex-boomer,
made a half-hearted that Victoria
sliould take him back at the present elec-
tion. And, sad to say, a time seems to be
coming when the country might do worse than
take back the dilapidated wreck and wraith of
Jimmy. It is a sorrowful thing, but old backwash
James is a better democrat than most of the crowd
that is coming to the top iust now.
One result of the suddenness of the Irvine
Ministry’s resignation will be the loss of Deegan
to Victorian politics for the present, if not for all
time. In his blissful ignorance of what the future
had in store, Deegan tripped to Maoriland three
weeks ago, and can’t get back in time to stand
again for Melbourne East. The Vic. Assembly
has lost in Deegan a fine assortment of quotations
from the Immortal Bard.
The Forbes (N.S. W.) Crown land-agent (a
correspondent alleges) was transferred, a month or
two ago, to Orange, and died after an illness of
about five days. The Dept., when accounting for
his salary, reckoned the amount only up-to the
last day he had signed at the office, docking him
for the five days he was dying, and thus ‘ ‘ chiselled ”
his unfortunate widow out of a few pounds. It
seems too mean to be true.
Seddon's speech about the utter wrongness
of the proposal to invite the Boer generals to the
Coronation (it was delivered at a banquet of the
Tallow Chandlers’ Company where grease seems
only natural) evoked a casual sort of reply in the
Pall Mall Gazette. The substance of the reply
was that Seddon was himself the King’s guest,
and that a guest, if he is a gentleman, doesn’t
lecture his host about the selection of his other
guests.
Melbourne gets a family man for Bishop
at last. Rev. H. Lowther Clarke, who steps into
Goe’s shoes, has a quiver full, there being nine or
ten sons and daughters. The dailies have already
discovered all the ordinary virtues in the bishop-
elect, beside which he is devoted to cricket and
other British institutions. Neither Moorhouse
nor Goe had a family, but they were never poor
curates, whereas Clarke was moderately poor for
some years.
T. H. Guenett, Melb. musician, and long
the Argus musical eritio, just dead, claimed the
proud distinction of being the unluckiest man that
ever bestrode a bicycle. When the bike boom
was on, Guenett was never out of slings and
bandages. One day he rode up alongside a well-
known pressman in Swanston-street, and said :
“By jove, do you know, I’ve ridden into five
people within the last quarter of an hour.” Just
then, bang came a knickerbockered cyclist into
Guenett, and a woful smash and tangle resulted.
Guenett drew his great length out of the ruins,
and, holding his nose to stop the blood, said:
“Well, this is a pleasant change. I’ve been run
into! ”
Charles Winnecke, who died in his middle
age at Adelaide t’other day, led the Horn scientific
explorers to Centralia in ’94. The party’s best-
known find was the diprotodon remains, which,
later on, added a letter or two to the titles of
Prof. E. C. Stirling, South Australia’s premier
scientist. Winnecke’s own work, apart from
surveying, covered a very wide field ; and, if he
was not a leader in any branch of science, he did
very useful work in many—especially in botany
and ornithology. He was, on the whole, more
popular among the natives than among the whites,
for he had very decided opinions about the rela-
tions of the two races on the outer fringe of
civilisation.
Ex-Premier Cockburn (S.A.)
has evidently made up his mind to
stay in London, for he is steadily
adding to the directorships which
he is accepting. He will ere long
become a veritable “guinea pig”—
a sad fate for the democratic idealist
of the old days.
Bluff and kind Captain John
Mackay, discoverer and founder of
Sugaropolis, is now port-master of
Brisbane, and chairman of the
Marine Board. In the early seven-
ties he startled the cotton planters
of Fiji by delivering their mails with
a fast clipper brig in a time seldom
exceeded by the steamers of to-day;
indeed once, with Bishop Selwyn
and the writer on board, he arrived
at Levuka some hours under five
days from Auckland, beating
H.M.9. Cormorant and an Ameri-
can vessel by three days. Capt.
Mackay never refused a passage
to a dead-beat from Auckland or
Sydney. In the early eighties, the
MTlwraith Government having
awarded him 1000 acres sugar-land
for his services as a pioneer, he gave
up the sea ; but Griffith repudiated
the grant.
Tom Pearce, the hero of the
Loch Ard wreck near Port Camp-
bell (Vic.), in ’7B, is now shore
superintendent at Jamaica for the
Royal Mail Steamship Co. His
son, bearing the same name, recently reached
Melb. as an apprentice on the ship Loch Venna-
char. Capt. Bennett, of that vessel, made un-
successful application for a position on the Loch
Ard before she started on her fatal voyage. The
old tragedy seems to stick to the family in one
aspect and another.
“ N.” : Commissioner
Howard, formerly head of the
Salvation Army in Australia,
is here again, sent by General
Booth to inspect the accounts.
Col. Barker, who launched the
cause in Melbourne, sent home
such brilliant reports that the
General feared he would get
swelled head. So Ballington
Booth was sent out to super-
sede him, and Howard came
to bear-lead Ballington.
Barker and . Ballington
couldn’t hit it at all. Barker
turned rusty, and entrenched
himself in possession of the
property. He was loyal to
Booth, senior, but not to
Booth, junior. Ballington was
recalled. The General made
a kind of compromise.
Howard was made head, but
Barker was to do as he liked
in the Social Branch. Howard
and Barker got on well. The
General wheedled Barker
away. Howard may possibly
become General of the whole
Army. He has done useful
work everywhere. A remark -
ably suave, un-Army like
gentleman.
Adelaide people have
discovered a Crimean veteran,
James Arthur, of Glenelg, who
is alleged to have won the
Victoria Cross before Sebasto-
pol in June, 1855. He is in
poor circumstances, like most
of his kind, but his wife is still
able to keep the family pot
boiling by taking in washing.
He sold his Cross when he was
discharged from the army,
long ago, and in a recent issue
of London Times its re-sale,
“in a state of good preserva-
tion,” for £47, was notified.
There are three “silent”
men in Vic. politics—Stanley,
Dyer, and Spiers. The first,
a bluff Irishman from Hor-
sham, is always to be found
in the Assembly, if any funis
going on, but contents himself
with a rich, infectious chuckle.
Dyer hedges his unwilling-
ness to speak behind a pre-
tence that he doesn’t want to
waste time. Spiers was once
put up to second something. He said: “Mr.
Speaker, I am—that is, I have, er—er —good
Lord,” or something of that sort, and he has ever
since been too scared even to interject.
“ Are you in favor of trusts ? ” asked a
free and independent citizen of a Maoriland can-
didate for Parliament lately. “ Trusts ? ” “ Com-
bines, you know.” “Oh, yes, a combine —you
mean a threshing machine?”
Capt. H. .G. Neave, of the Royal Warwick-
shires, murdered in Madras lately by a trooper,
hailed from Christchurch (M.L.), where he was
educated. He graduated at Sandhurst in ’92, and
obtained his captaincy in ’99. A brother of
deceased was killed in the battle of Paardeberg,
S’Africa.
Rev. C. S. Dennis, an American evangelist,
is looked up in gaol for assault on a youth, who is
expected to die from his injuries. The preacher
had just concluded a prayer, in which he beseeched
his hearers to forgive their enemies and lead up-
right Christian lives, when some lads threw several
handfuls of pebbles into the room. Dennis sprang
from the pulpit, and rushed into the street.
Wrenching a burning gasoline lamp from its
fastenings in front of the door, he hurled it at the
crowd of retreating boys. The lamp struck one
of them, exploded, and enveloped the youngster
in flames.
Labor-member Kidston, who has been
leading Queensland Opposition during the illness
of Browne, is a Scot with a big bump of combat-
iveness and considerable opinion of himself. He
is a keen critic, and a ready, although somewhat
ponderous, debater, and if he has his price it
hasn’t been discovered yet. If Kidston was just
a little more human, and a little less Presbyterian
in his habit of mind, he would make a fair leader
in his present company. The Ministry dislikes
him greatly, which is something to Kidston’s
credit.
The clearing away of the police quarters
in Phillip-st., Sydney, revives the old story about
Vincent Wallace and his imperishable “Mari-
tana.” There are probably a good many places
in and around Sydney in which Wallace resided
during his time in Australia, amongst them being
the house on the corner of Phillip-st., but the claim
of every abode as being the seat of the musical
score of “ Maritana ” is much too strong. Wallace,
as likely as not, put his germs of musical thought
to paper in his native Ireland, and touched his
notes up here, there and everywhere.
PARIS NESBIT, K.C., OF ADELAIDE.
Late Melb. attorney Albert Read left
England in ’s2—bolted, as a matter of fact, with
a ward in Chancery. The Chancellor, in those
days, took his High Court of Chancery even more
seriously than he does now, and he who married
the Court’s nice girl-ward without the Court’s per-
mission “got slops” if the Court could capture
him. He was imprisoned for an indefinite period,
and talked to death by the Court at intervals,
and brought up before the Court, and sent down
again, and asked if he fully realised the enormity
of his offence, and otherwise knocked endways.
They are making a row in Maoriland
because it has been discovered that Premier
Seddon’s brother is an inspector of noxious weeds.
That brother is unfortunate. Had he been a
brother in the days of the Continuous Ministry
he would have been an Under-Secretary at the
very least. There is no reason why Seddon’s
brother shouldn’t be an inspector of noxious weeds
if he knows a weed and pursues it swiftly. The
Continuous Ministry, in the days of itsown power,
packed the public offices with relatives and
hangers-on, and used to boast openly that no
matter what Govt, came in it owned the Civil
Service, and its brother there would block innova-
tions by a process of passive stonewalling till it
came back to office. Seddon and M‘Kenzie
spent nearly 12 months sacking the old Tory
Ministry’s brother out of the largest wooden
building in the world before it could get any real
work done.
Vie. Treasurer Shiels says the railway
expenses are too great, and that economy must be
the order of the day. Yet he is one of the most
expensive customers or deadheads the Railway
Department has. When he travels from Mel-
bourne to Casterton, the chief town of his elec-
torate, or vice versa , his relations, horses, goods
and chattels, appurtenances, household gods,
retinue, and smelling-bottle are numerous and
extensive enough to almost form a small train. A
special order goes forth that Mr. Shiels’ horses
are on the train, and that special care must be
taken to prevent damage, &c. On the journey in
either direction the horse-trucks are turned two
or three times in order that the pampered beasts*
heads may be kept the same way. The time lost
in this extra shunting (which is not done for any-
body else) has to be made up by the driver. It
cost very little more to carry Turner round the
country all the five years of his Premiership than
it does to hump his long, faint, affected successor
once to Casterton and back.


■
WEAK-SIGHTED READERS^-*
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing with comfort, whose distant vision is dull
and who suffer from persistent headaches or pains after close
application—you may rest assured that vou are suffering from
Ageing or Impaired Vision, and Need Glasses. You
should Visit us, and have your sight scientifically tested, and
be supplied with Glasses adapted to your individual case.
Tt> COUNTRY READERS who cannot visit us personally, we send, Post Free to any address, with full instruc-
tions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate and popular SELF SISHT-MEASIMINd PATENT. By its use
you can Test your own sight and determine for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you may need.
Write for it to—
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Consulting Optician,
371 George St., Sydney,
next door to the A.J.S. Bank.
King and George Streets.
And at 232 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, opposite Aau Office.
DAVID STOKER & SONS’ Th ree RED an. BLU
Registered
Trade
Mark.
TATTOO OIL
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking or
The Perfect Sheep-Marker. SHEEP BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
K uppers Elberfeld “Lager.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. —In the case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience ; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
BUSINESS INSTINCT.
SMALL Boy (to bolting cyclist): “Hi, mister, if yer don’t come back
can I ’ave the cap ?”
“ Bobrid ” : In reply to “ W.L.” (8.,
IS/9/*O2), concerning bunny’s habits: I merely
stated what I actually saw, not what I thought.
Which makes a difference when dealing with
rabbits, or kings, or other current matters. On
Erin vale station (N.S.W.) trappers showed me
scores of gravid does, but no “ kittens ” were ever
seen; this was from March to July. Soon after
the trappers left the “youngsters” began to ap-
pear : no change in pasture, which was as
dry as a Presbyterian sermon. All of which
looks as if trapping had some effect on
bunny’s family affairs. That the rabbit has
an “aversion to a trap” is well-known amongst
professional trappers, so much so that great care
has to be exercised in setting a trap to avoid
arousing suspicion. Let a novice try his hand at
rabbit-trapping, and he’ll find bunny knows more
about the game than he does. Bunnry will
avoid a burrow where a dead rabbit is—this I have
proved. Evidently the Bathurst rabbits and
rabbit “ experts ” are a bit behind the times !
From Nyngan to Condobolin, the recent
rains have done very little good, except to put
water into the tanks. The country is still as bare
as a doorstep, and as hard as iron ; the roots are
apparently dead. The poor cockie on his 1280-
acre block is in a pitiable way, with his sheep
dead, and no crops for years. This year, he has
no possible hope of a crop, as the wheat is only
just beginning to shoot, whereas it should be at
least a foot high. As he cannot do anything for
himself, he works for the squatter, skinning
and plucking wool off dead sheep, or else scrub-
cutting. Most of these “selections” are now
reverting back to the stations, as the cockies are
unable to make a living on them, and the squatter
gets them for a song. One 10,000 acres, which
was resumed some few years ago, has all gone
back to the station, bar 2560, and the same thing
is to be found in the whole of the Nyngan and
Condobolin districts. Every man is trying to get
away at the best advantage. These cockies have
nothing but a few fowls, perhaps a pig, and
sundry frames of horses (not a cow to be seen).
How they keep their wrecks alive is a mystery.
I saw one man, who owned five equine skeletons,
give each one a pannikin of wheat for a night
feed. One cockie was knocking out a pound or
two poisoning crows. He had a unique way of
doing it. After skinning a sheep he placed a ball,
made of fat and phosphorous, in the empty eye-
socket, which the crow eagerly devours. He had
over 1000 heads, killed in this manner; twopence
is allowed for each head. Birds are very easily
caught, and, on Melrose run, scores of magpies
and minahs are to be seen carrying large medallions
round their necks, made out of the lids of jam
tins and pieces of leather —they seem quite proud
of them, too. A soul-weary rabbit dwells about
here also, and, with the grasshopper, devours
everything that tries to make an appearance
through the soil. Go on the land, young man !
* * * •
“ Kelm S.” : Re Chinaman’s luck. Was
shearing at Woomargama the year of Carbine’s
Cup. In the shed sweep on that race (worth £6,
.£3 and £110s.) the Cnow boundary-rider drew
Carbine, the cook (Chow also) got Highborn, while
Correze fell to the Chinese gardener.
• » • •
A ten-year-old horse, bred and reared in
the Bamawm (Vic.) district, was sold and
trucked to Kyneton, 140 miles down the line.
Within four days it was back at the slip-rails of
its old paddock.
Dear Bulletin.—
Some of your correspon.
dents doubt that swag-
gies play the pedlar on
their routes, and ad-
vance reasons for the
why and wherefore of
their thinking. The
time is just coming on
when all Vic. towns
within two days’ tramp
of the Murray will be
infested with the ped-
dling swaggies. Camp-
ing at the river-bend
nearest the town, he
dumps “ Matilda, ” and
sets off on his quest for
the raw material, in the
shape of calves’ hoofs,
soogee bagging, pieces
of string, necks of broken
bottles, turkeys’feathers,
&c., &c. A few days
(sometimes hours) after,
the craftsman of the
road goes forth with his
speciality. Perhaps it
is a pair of beautifully-
finished calf -hoofs,
mounted in velvet as
pin-cushions; a bunch of
flowers, or a plant (in an
improvised cardboard
pot) wonderfully made
up of dyed feathers, and
a credit to the faker ;
a waterbag made of
cadged canvas, with glass
outlet; a ship majesti-
cally rigged out, en-
sconced in a brandy-
bottle (how it got there
is the mystery); puzzles
of various kinds made
by cutting cast-off play-
ing - cards .in various
shapes to be put together
as squares, triangles,
&c., &c. ; butter-coolers
and safes made of butter-
cloth, &c.; fans, fantasti-
cally carved and twisted
out of soft pine-wood ;
bullocks’ horns taste-
fully polished and
mounted as hat-racks;
chair - cushions made out of soogee bagging
stuffed with straw; fly - catchers wonderfully
fashioned and festooned out of gaily - colored
tissue papers; paper-knives and scarf-rings
worked and carved out of knuckle and shin-bones,
and so on. Last year struck a swaggie who would
take a cigar-box lid, and on it paint the landscape
before him, dispose of it for a drink, and paint
another, till tired Nature laid him low—but he
was an artist, not a swagman.—Nymsie.
• • * *
“ Tonbur ” : A station in Goondiwindi
(Q.) district has 30 Chinamen ring-barking.
Chows are employed at all kinds of work about
there. The people of Texas take after our friends
in Cairns, and lease land to the heathen for
tobacco-growing. A nice mongrel population is
growing up in those parts. Three sisters are
married to a Hindu, a Chow, and an aborigine
respective] . Scores of men are camped on the
Macintyre River, existing on cod ; no use travel-
ling now—while the work is given to the alien.
A GREATER THAN SANDOW.
THE YOUNG 'UN (excitedly): “This’ere Sandow
can lift a man of list, and sling him onto a
horse with one hand.”
THE OLD 'UN (calmly): “ Well, I ain’t never
seen a horse with one hand, but I’ve often
lifted a bullock weighing more’n that and
slung it over the border without making any
fuss about it.”
“ Indra ” on artesian bores :
Re “ F.M.” “ speaking to the point” (B. 13/9/’O2), also
all these other fellows who talk about irrigating with
bore water. What I have seen of it is just this :It will
grow anything A 1 for the first year ; next year it’s
moderate ; next year it moderates some more, and so on,
till it won’t grow a durned thing. There’s too much
mineral in the water, and it seems to take all the sub-
stance out of the ground ; and if you flood, it cakes the
surface like cement. As to the hardening properties—l
know of a man who built a mud house, obtaining mud
from a hole filled by bore. He built up the walls, leaving
the windows and door to be cut out when dry. Well, he
hadn’t got any dynamite and fuse, and it took him longer
to knock out a door and three windows than it did to
build the house and put a roof on it, not to mention wear
and tear of picks, which, when they didn’t break, would
turn round and look at him. Some people swear by
Ohinamen for gardening. One of ’em said, re artesian
water : “ One yea’ welly goo’, allee same, glow high ; too
yea’, not much goo’; tlee yea’, no plully goo’ at all.”
Artesian water must be used moderately and tactfully,
or your magnificent crop the first year will be the only
one.
* * • *
“ Wyoming ” : Mr. Clias. Capel, of Gorian
Station, N.S.W., was astonished, on recently
post mortem-ing some of his wethers which had
died unaccountably, to find that their stomachs had
been transformed into miniature grass paddocks,
growing trefoil luxuriantly, with the roots em-
bedded in every crevice of the walls of the
stomach. The only explanation forthcoming is
that, for some months, the sheep had been existing
principally upon such grass-seeds and roots as
they could pick up.
“X.X.X.X.”: Some
queer things happen in our
country. Here is one: In
Gormanston (Tas.) last winter
lived a man with a wooden leg.
He tried to bring home his load
of timber one night, but had
overloaded with something
drawn from the wood. He got
into one of the principal
thoroughfares of that miserably
bleak town on the mountain top,
when his timber leg became
fast in the clay. Man walked
round the leg till he got tired.
Then he went to sleep standing
up. Next morning an early
riser saw a man standing in the
street. Thought him rather
quiet. Went up and spoke to
him. Dead ! Verdict—expo-
sure.
* * *
Recent prayers for rain in
Queensland resulted in Gin. of
rain for Cooktown (always a
fairly wet locality)* in 48 hours
and o’osin. for Charleville.
The clergy will yet have to
specify their wants more
minutely. A recent Queens-
land ram that gave Western
townships 15 points was heralded in the Brisbane
press as “ Break-up of the drought.”
* * * *
“ Bush Boy ” : To “ T.J.G.” (8., 9/7/’O2)
about rearing pheasants. I have tried and failed,
but I know of a man at Wood’s Point (Vic.) who
reared four of these birds by fencing-in a |-acre
at the head of a gully. He had them very tame.
They would imitate almost any sound. He was
going to “travel” with them, when someone
poisoned them.
“ A.P.R.” : The “roasting”
which a bushie receives in the city
is trivial compared to that bestowed
on the city man out-back. After
a week’s sojourn on a station the
new-chum is ready to disbelieve any-
thing, and life becomes a weary
burden that lie might shed any time
without feeling sorry. A Technical
College wool-sorter, who had never
been among sheep, went up North
some years ago, and got along quite
nicely until he asked the shed boss
how many lambs a sheep usually
had at a litter. That query will
follow him to his dying day. Horse-
gear always puzzles a “chum”; he
will ride along with a surcingle
strapped around his horse’s chest,
and then wonder what “those other
idiots ” are grinning at. He is con-
tinually overhearing alarming con-
versations, and wouldn’t
to find that his own shadow had
invented a sinister practical joke to
explode upon him at the first oppor-
tunity.
* * *
The Hindu hawker is as
numerous as ever, though he doesn’t
look it. He has found that when
a procession of six men, each with
the same yellowish-brownish face
in front and the same heap of trash
behind, calls at the same farm-house
inside two or three days, only one
does business, as a 'rule—the other
five merely draw attention to the
increasing accursedness of the
spindle-shanked brown curse. So
in many districts the brown curse has come amicably
together and divided up the land into beats, and
each brown sticks to his own beat. As a result,
lie does the same business with less walking and
less waste of boots and feet, and only one greasy
head salaams at the door where six used to salaam,
and the alarm about the size of the nigger invasion
is wearing off.
* • » *
Gladstone (Q.) is awaking at last. In the
good old days sucli vessels as visited the port
always arrived to time, and the people knew
exactly when to expect them. Just once, a
steamer dropped in “ permiskus-like,” and finding
nothing alive on the wharf but a tired dog,
whistled again. Presently there appeared an
ancient with a sleepy and injured expression of
countenance. Captain (loq.): “Where the devil
are all the people ? Races on—or what ? ” The
Ancient; “ Races ! The mayor or someone giv a
arf ’oliday for summat or other and all of us turned
into bed. Shake ’em up with another whistle.”
* • • *
“H. Mac. : Remarkable that cockatoos and
galahs can distinctly sound “f” without the upper
mandible touching the lower ; whereas a crow, a
lyrebird, or a magpie cannot, to my knowledge,
sound the “f” at all'. T.he “f” sound is very
common among Australian birds, more particu-
larly among the genus Sitella.
* • • *
No man is a reliable authority on his own
wife or his own dog. At Rutherglen (Vic.),
t’other day a large Newfoundland, which its owner
insisted was an entirely benevolent and well-
meaning animal, attacked a little girl, and worried
her so severely that her life is despaired of.
* * + *
Dear Bulletin.— Has any of your snake-
liars ever seen a red snake ? If so, when and
where 1 And were the under-plates of the tail
single or in a double series ? In ’95 I sent to
Sydney Museum a fine example of a N.S.W. red
snake— Hoplocephalus superbus —before met with
only in Tasmania and the mountainous parts of
Victoria. —M ‘Coo^v.
PROGRESS.
SHIRE PRESIDENT (to distinguished visitor as the horse
negotiates another stump): “Yes, gentlemen, 50 years
ago there was nothing to be seen on this spot, as far as
the eye could reach, but gum-trees.”
One pathetic effect of the drought is that
when approaching a belt of timber from a plain
half the trees seem to be blossoming, when, as a
matter of fact, they are white with death. On
the Castlereagh the kookaburras lie dead in heaps
(perhaps for lack of anything to laugh at). Most
of the scrub wallabies are so poor they can be run
down on foot. The grey landscape is dotted
thickly with yellow sheep skins, hanging on logs,
fences —everywhere. The recent rain has hardly
made a shoot.
NO MONARCHS NEED APPLY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ King Micky (Illawarra) applied recently to the
Premier, through the member for the district, for the
old age pension. The Premier replied, however, to the
effect that the present state of the law prevented his
Majesty’s request being complied with.”
It is not seemly that this nation grand,
This-sceptred Southern Queen,
Should let its monarchs wander through the land
Without a bean.
What if the powers they wielded long ago
Are dead and bygone things?
For out* own sake we should not play it low
On these poor kings.
We did not know the Great Diprotodon ;
The Pouched Lion too]
Into the dust, unseen by us, has gone ;
The Kangaroo
Remains, with some small remnant of the race
Whose flag will soon be furled,
That made this continent the weirdest place
In all the world.
Deal gently with them. There will come a day
When men—beyond a doubt —
In speaking of that remnant small will say—
We wiped it out.
What would it cost this mean State Government,
That at the fallen jeers,
To keep King Mick in comfort and content
In his last years i
The wages of an office-boy to sweep
The shop of carrot-merchant See ;
King Mick in flour, and baccy too, would keep,
And rum and tea.
But unto John, it seems—to end this pome—
No monarchs need apply
Since he was not invited to go ’Ome
In last July.
DRSEVE ROE.


TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes,
oplendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Kemoves Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
D . , Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Kestores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
LLLIOTT BROS., L'MITED, SYDNEY.
Silver
Hair Brushes.
Are the acme of elegance on the
dressingtable.
They look good—they wear a lifetime.
They afford satisfaction whenever seen.
The bristles may be renewed at any time.
We have an enormous stock.
[n Single Brushes out of case.
Single Brushes and Comb in Morocco case.
Pair of Brushes in Morocco case.
One Brush, Mirror and Comb, in case.
Pair of Brushes, Mirror and Comb.
Pair of Brushes, Mirror, Cloth and Hat
Brushes, in case.
Designs from the Old Masters-from Sir
Joshua Reynolds, from Cellini, from
ha Lique, from Watteau, and all the
New Art Designs.
Silver=back Hair Brushes, from 15/6.
We are still selling these at London Prices.
SINGLE BRUSHES from 15/6 each
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
London Prices.
Plain Figures.
Strictly Cash.
Jewellery House in Sydney,
2 3 HUNTER STREET.
A PROUD DISTINCTION.
NED: “Hello! So Sis ez give yer the chuck, eh?”
DENNY: “Well, yer can't blame 'er fer slingin' the likes o’ me.
It turns out ez her father used to serve Melba with bacon.”
“ Yatu ” Recently came across a Kanaka
albino—a 17-year girl, native of Aoba, or Leper’s
Isle, New Hebrides. Her parents are of
the true Melanesian brown, but she i i
white as any European. Her hair (or
rather wool), eyelashes and eyebrows arc
•snow-white; and were it not for her
broad, flat nose, thick lips, and large,
straight mouth, she could not be distin-
guished from a European albino. Her
skin does not sunburn, freckle or tan—
it simply reddens, and whitens down
again during the night. Her eyes are
unfitted for seeing well in the sunlight,
but are clear blue at night, as I saw them
by candle-light. She is elaborately tat-
tooed in blue on back, breast, arms and
legs.
* * • *
“ Biffic ” : lie ruminants eating fish (B.
26/7/’O2). When I was in N.Y. city, in ’B5, work-
ing in a wholesale produce store, I once, for a
lark, tried an express-waggon horse with some
very ripe eels (condemned). He chewed them up
with great gusto.
♦ * * *
That horse (mentioned in recent Bulletin)
that ate the wool off a dead sheep must surrender
his laurels to a Western cow, which (as reported
by local paper) follows the opossum-shooters
round jind feeds upon the skinned opossums—
waxing, fat and sleek on the diet. The Western
Cow and the Western horse will, in a few more
drought years, be classified as carnivorous.
“A.R.”: During a re-
cent grasshopper plague I
noticed the ground was liter-
ally spotted with groups of
these insects, and, on exami-
nation, invariably observed
the following : —ln the oentre
of each group sat a large grass-
hopper. On each side of his
“neck” rested the heads of
two of his comrades; their
bodies trailing off from his at
right angles. Periodically the
latter uplifted their hind-legs
in ‘a careful, mechanical sort
of way, and then replaced
them. This went on indefi-
nitely, and the rest of the
group (running from 3 to 20,
and apparently mere specta-
tors) looked on, in a calm,
judicial fashion. I never
noticed any of them slipping
away for a drink, though the
ground was fairly blistering
with heat. Is this a religious
ceremony, or something con-
nected with the Masonic
grasshoppers, or what ?
• * *
If you want to prosper
in any town out West, don’t
pay your way. Paying your
way is fatal. The western
town lives on a system of
barter, swap, and exchange.
Nobody gives you a job unless
you owe him something and
he wants to work it off; it
takes all the jobs he can give
to collect his own debts. If
you aren’t in debt to anybody
nobody will employ you ; if
you are in debt to everybody
you get all the work they
have to give, unless somebody
is deeper in debt than you
are. Owe nothing outside
your own district if you can
help it; inside your own dis-
trict owe all you can to as
many people as you can, and do it as long as you
can.
* • * •
“Cronje”: Be timber dying in Central
Queensland (B. 2(i/7/’O2), on the watershed of
Lachlan and Bogan (counties of Cunninghame and
Kennedy), the following timbers are dying :
Bimble box, apple box, grey box, mountain or
rocky pine, broom, wait-a-while, come-back,
lawyer bush, copper wattle, currawong, common
pine and ironbark. Jackasses have died every-
where ; in fact they are almost extinct.
* » * »
The vitality of the seeds of plants indi-
genous to Australian drought-land is phenomenal.
The Sturt pea is an instance. Certainly for 12 or
14 years none growing wild have been allowed to
seed in Broken Hill, and yet every spring, after
the slimmest apology for a shower, plants will
appear. Not many things could stand baking in
Centralian dust for, perhaps, 20 years, and still
live ; btlt these seeds do.
* * * 9
Wild goats are plentiful in the ranges out-
side of Broken Hill and Silverton. They are the
progeny of animals that esoaped from control
years ago. f
HOSPITALITY.
COCKY: “Don't wanter
buy a dog! W ell, if
yer hold on a jiff I'll empty the pupa outer the
billy an' we'll 'ave some tea.”
Camel-carrying out back is a brutal busi-
ness. Cows often drop their calves on the track
(the breeders are worked continuously); and the
simple plan adopted in that case is to tie the new-
comer to the staggering mother’s load. On the
average there are more wounds per square yard on
a working camel’s body than on anything else
under the sun ; and altogether a train coming in
after a heavy trip is one of the most dismal and
repellent sights in a land where cruel sights aren’t
uncommon.
THE SPUD-DIGGING DAYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In days that are gone we spent part of each year
Digging spuds till the season was done,
And few were the grafters and “ murphies ” were dear,
And grand was the wage to be won ;
And gre.it was the fame of the spud-digger then—
No shed-ringer ever as proud—
Whose total was top in the tally book when
The boss settled up with the crowd.
16 was strip to the shirt and the diggers would go
Till the sweat was a-drip from each brow,
And bags were a-standing in cluster and row—
lint there’s nothing in spud-digging now.
To Warmainbool mostly or wild Bungaree
We —sure as the seasons—returned.
The rollicking spud diggers, sturdy and free,
And fat were the cheques that we earned.
'Twas “ Tucker yerselves and five shillin’s a ton.”
And other conditions were few,
When the season was late and a lot to he done,
With grain-sowing waiting them, too.
So we camped in bark humpies, and tents, and in logs,
And we worked while the light would allow,
In rain and in frosts, and in lingering fogs—
But there’s nothing in spud-digging now.
And then, surreptitiously, some of us used
To slip out a-courting at night,
And others would go to a pub. and get boozed,
And, maybe, get nurt in a light.
But we know them no more, they have vanished for aye,
And we bade them good-bye with regret,
For smoogers and crawlers now graft by the day,
Digging murphies for what they can get.
And out in the paddocks you mostly can liar
The heathen “ whaffor,” of the Chow,
And the fact is becoming increasingly clear
That there’s nothing in spud-digging now.
V.
[?]B SUN.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un •
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
J.F. D. : Solution of gaol-labor problem seems
to be : make every prisoner work, and work hard at what
he is best suited for ; credit him with the full value of
his labor ; debit him with cost of maintenance and sur-
veillance ; devote the balance to his wife and family (if
he has such), and to giving him a start when he gets out,
or, in some cases, to recouping his victims. There’s no
earthly reason why poems, boots, furniture, leading
articles, bricks, pictures, statues, toys, dog-collars, &c.,
&c., shouldn’t be made in gaol on strictly commercial
principles. The State should not under-sell, but
“ trade fair.” Pick - and - shovel men in custody
might be put to dig irrigation canals out West
O.E.W. : Certainly we’ll give you that; also the earth
and anything else you’d like, if 3'ou call round (any Sun-
day).... Echo : No room for the small banalities of
parsons... .J.W. : If you blossomed out as a Domain
orator authority on a medical matter, on the strength of a
contributed (and signed) opinion in The 8., it shows what
Domaiu oratory is stuffed with J.D. : Much too un-
pleasant G.B. : Is it intended for humor?
The Bushman when bowed down with sin
With sorrow makes a truce
By finding a sweet solace in
The grape’s fermented'juice.
.. ..Alone Iloly Tide ”is a rather dolorous thing....
Baasum : Those trees ought to be supported by a prop or
an affidavit or something A.M.B.R. : Will print
“Spring Song.” Polwarth : Very inferior B.L.
(Fremantle): Mostly a game of skill, though with an
element of chance in it. If two men play, say, 100 games
the most skilled player will certainly win most of them.
On a single game the chance element might upset calcu-
lations Sandfly : You don’t give date of issue.
Useless quest without that P.J. (W.A.) : Can’t
“ undertake” anything. Send ’em along and have a try.
Galvo : Fairly interesting in their way, but out of our
line. Bulletin doesn’t care for a series, anyhow
S.K. : Ball has already rolled E. Jolly: Not quite
quality enough.... The Cynic : Lamentable doggerel
J. Byers: That question has been finally hung up....
A.D. : Always give date of issue in which items referred
to have appeared. We’ve no time for par-hunting....
Pankaroo : You appear to contradict yourself upon the
trapped-rabbit question... Bolus: Just so!—and we
can’t swallow you... .Busker : Style too stiff and heavy.
....Ajax: Impossible verses R. 8.: Nothing in it....
Karma: Have never yet struck a thing labelled
“ poem ” that teas a poem. Your screed doesn’t even
begin to be poetry.. Maude S. : Interest too slight
Barb W. : Hideous scribble. Deciphered for five minutes ;
found they were five minutes wasted Jonas: Rather
clever, but needlessly complicated and much too 10ng....
Dan B. : You’ve made hopeless hash of the subjem....
C.C.M. : You have a light touch, but the matter isn’t
worth the space.... Vim : Was mislaid, but has been
found and forwarded.... Kodak :To hand.... Maggie S. :
Will be duly considered... .Ben Sun: “ Rabbiter,” very
flat. The others may have a show Durban: What’s
the use of shrieking because human, nature is human
nature? And, anyhow, you might start your reform with
yourself by developing a little charity for the failings of
others Noodle : Nothing noodleish about your screed,
at all events, but it’s quite off our track.. .Star: Only about
16" magnitude... .M.D.A. : You meander too much
F.D. (W.A.): But you give no address... .Geebung :
“ Retrospection,” “Lethe’s wave” “thrills my listening
ear,” “Imuse,”“Methinkslsee” “my childhood’s shrine”
—yes, undoubtedly you are suffering from a bad attack of
spring poetry Clam: Only one good thought in your
“ Sunset in the the Bush.” ■
Thy green head nodding a good-night to yonder star.
F. : Your poem “Storm" is a tame, fed-out-of-the-
hand affair, without a crash in it.... Wreck: You’ve no
right to know that that M.P. does write under that
pseudonym C.A.J.T. : It is “stopped” to the extent
that any correspondence on the subject is liable to
seizure by the P.O. authorities Gibo : Tree-
mark-question shelved... .Micky : Rank rubbish
E.M.P. : Hopelessly feeble verse D.H.R. : “Bill,”
very stiff ; “ Election,” better, but hardly up ; verse very
wooden; trefoil item we’ve had already S.G.W.A.’:
Too flimsy Sherlock: Too mechanical Pong: Not
bad verse, but no new ideas The Waster : Copy repre-
sents wasted efforts H.F. : Humorous stories of men
who wreck their trousers and their enjoyment irretriev-
ably at evening parties are not in our line at all; on an
average, three come a day L.E.N. : Disinfected it and
sent it to the tip ; hope to avoid an outbreak of infectious
disease... .E.Y.: It’s not a good subject for “ Woman’s
Letter.” M.P. (Bathurst): Some skill, but not any
original ideas General: A bit below the mark
Drifting : (1) Defence of prisoners already dealt with ; (2)
don’t see that the Judge or magistrate to try a seafaring
case should necessarily be a “man with sailor’s experi-
ence ” any more than he should be a man with
pick and shovel experience to try a contractor’s case.
C.O.P. : We very rarely reprint poetry ; the
one original piece you send not suitable M.K. : You
ask, “ Why should poetry be read aloud,” and write half-
column to explain your idea of how it should be read
aloud Prospector: Subject reeks with libel possibili-
ties M.S. : Don’t speak of the sun’s “ molten wings ” :
it suggests moulting An Australian in London: We
don’t feel inclined to publish a long letter to correct our
“ injustice ” in representing an Australian singer there
as a little more celebrated than she is. If it were the other
way about now 1 As it is, let’s join in the hope that the
singer will move up and be worthy of the praise
Carina: Neither is up to our standard, though tlie
longer one has good points about it H.P. : Yes
Vincent N.: Shortly stated, your argument is that,
because experts are not infallible, we should always be
guided by the opinions of inexperts, which is obvious
bosh Revilo: Not peculiar to M.L. Chows; Celestial
custom all over Australia A.S.: Neither is suitable..
G. Marnit: Situation strong, but workmanship rough
The Twins: Not skill enough Helen B. : Hardiv
reaches print-level Bulbul: Not well enough told
J. Davinson : No literary value Victorien : Some
pathos, but very weak handling... Max. S. : Pretty flat..
Riverina: Too crude and clumsy L.A.D. : Returned ;
not quite up to mark Sally B. : Too cold and craggy
and angular A.A.L.: A dreadful noise about nothing.
... .Sulphide : Not a glimmer of merit J.F.D. (Vic.)’:
Wobbles grievously all through, and comes down with a
crash at the end Sigma : A mere string of gratuitous
assumptions —D. McD. (Q.): No more crow-trapping,
thanks Lance R. ; Has some very good touches' but
on the whole too unpleasant; the sponge would
make a good ironical incident in itself
Galvo: Sketch too forced G.H. : Not a bit
real Melita :No go —Saki : Pretty but inconse-
quential The Wasp : One may keep on the track
Helen P. : Incident too hackneyed A.C.H. : When
copy is returned in that way, it means that it was put
among the goats at the last moment, after being at first
thought worthy of a sheep’s place Horsetralian : Too
dreadful for words B.C.W. : “ Soliloquy,” a tame
repetition of the old sunset ideas.... Kodak : Several good
items. One or two others returned H.E. Digger: No
doubt the situation is serious, but the poetry is even more
so Eva L.: A pretty bit of verse, but the baby
superstition is rather hackneyed Francis D’E.: ‘‘Foggy
Morning” looks promising D. Bouverie : Two excellent
bits of verse to hand Trouvere : “Rose” will do
A.W.A. : Well, did he see “Teddy”? Ben Sun:
“Rabbitter” and “Dad” only medium. Probably use
“Spud-digging” and “Firewood.” Magnet: Never
heard about the “backsheesh.” Everybody gets paid
for contributions printed in Bulletin if he takes the
trouble to send in bill. If there is any change in the
paper’s literary taste—well, the man who used to
accept poems and things is away doing a well-
earned holiday, and another man is rejecting poems
and things pro tem J.B. : Kangaroo’s baby-
question stone dead.... Ajax: “Dion” not up to
usual mark Unsuitable : Micky, A.D., Billy L.F.....
Herbert A. : One or two good ones among them, but one
yarn is Max Adeler slightly altered, and the mere fact of
a politician being drunk amounts to little Ben:
“ Constance Clyde,” in that matter is a vast deal more
logical than you. The hole in your reasoning is big
enough to throw goats through.... The Derelict: No
climax about “ Quits” J.B.S. : Send us the condensed
beef of thought; don’t drive the whole herd into our
premises for us to slay and skin and boil down....
..H.C.P. : Too many men have made that mistake
already S. Wilson : Reads like a huge sample of foreign
ignorance.... Awakino : “Invocation” excellent. Con-
sidering the rest... .Booyang: Will use two of these
items Gerald B. : Demand for tombstone poetry limi-
ted.... Fortana : Lady whose hair gives out sparks isn’t
so rare as you think... .John H. B. (Redfern) : Send your
open letter to Bill Lyne through the post. Even Sanballat,
who sent the first open letter, provided his own messenger
to hump the document Ajax: Dion opens well, then
tails off Curious (S.A.) : (1) The document (described
as “ Bulletin A ; Census of N.S.W.; Comparative State-
ment of the Habitations in the six States of Australia and
in Maoriland ”) is a single sheet, obtainable for Cd. or so at
Sydney Govt. Printing Office. (2) No reason is offered.
Probably wood is scarce and stone plentiful in
S.A. A long series of bulletins, dealing with
census matters of all kinds, is being used
Black Duck : Copy of “ Lebailip ” returned through post.
... .The Prooshan : None of the three mentioned set the
office on fire, all have been returned by post W. J.
Wye : The French lieutenant who won the cross-country
cavalry race is a Thing which should be gaoled ; anyone
who emulated him is a Thing that should be hanged
Nymsie : You say that, in your Vic. electorate, the
yellow pup candidate goes round with two parsons to
assist him, but, if the R.C. one “ was to walk the streets
with half a priest, what an Orange howl there would be !”
Should think there would be a police howl, too. Half a
priest, especially if freshly separated from the other half,
would be a terrifying and illegal spectacle Reader for
16 Years : Impossible to give imports and tariff collec-
tions “up to date.” By the time the figures are gathered
in from all the outlying ports they are getting rather old.
And the figures “since the tariff was first imposed”
would throw no light on the results of the tariff now. The
tariff has been changing almost every day for nearly a
year.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Peter Wilson : Boy’s too precocious, and the girl’s too
10ng... .Sid.: Picture of immaculate, short-sighted per-
son, hailing Hop Sing as a brother, is not humorous.
Had he mistaken Hop Sing for his wife, there might have
been something in it. Other unavailable Knellie
M“Crae : Hamlet picture quite impossible George
W. : One good enough, probably: please don’t send
“Limericks” ; keep them for the Sabbath Times’ Bird....
Tom D.: Not available.
APHORISTIC.
How we clamor and howl for “ Justice ! ” We should
howl a lot worse if we got it.
Duty’s only skin-deep. With most of us it has a hard
job to get even that far.
We temper the wind to the shorn sham.
Genius has been defined as the faculty for taking
infinite pains. Stuff !—Genius is the faculty for catching
a big fish on a bent pin.
The pessimist is the worst of fools. He suffers in anti-
cipation all the evils he may possibly never experience.
There is a remarkable family likeness, between the
devils we beget and the gods we deserve.
A man’s opinion of his comrades is seen in the story he
tells them ; the measure of himself is seen in the story he
likes.
Why try to forgive the person who has wronged you
when you can’t even forgive the person you’ve wronged
yourself ?
Brotherhood—A sublime aspiration, provided you first
pick your brothers.
The superstition of our century—That by becoming
scientifically intimate with the laws of Nature, we can
compensate ourselves for a daily violation of the laws of
Justice.
Q. P.L.
“ Kiator ” re a food-matter :—
In Melb. to-day I saw a fashionable lady and her son,
about 14 years old, making their two meals off one dinner.
The restaurateur was rather staggered, but gave in. This
kind of thing is common in Paris. One can never eat the
whole of a meal. An experienced traveller will give you
the tip of getting one meal for two. Also, it is common
with foreigners at London restaurants, and makes pro-
vincials stare, but not the Londoners. In San Francisco,
when ordering two meals, if you know your way about,
you ask for steak or chops (or any other dish) “’for one,
with two plates.” If you ask for steak “ for two,” they
give you as much as would serve two huge navvies. The
“ two plates ” system is not regarded as mean—it is the
local custom, and suits the restaurateur very well indeed.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
The new “Vulcanised” tyre issued by the
Dunlop co., has caught c\ c ists’ favor at a bound. The
new cover is vulcanised under intense hydraulic pressure,
rendering parting of rubber from the fabric casing an
impossibility. As this has always been the cause of fully
50 per cent, of the troubles associated with pneumatic
tyres, those cyclists who have not yet seen the new covers
will readily understand what a boon the Dunlop
“ Vulcanised” tyre will prove. As the new cover costs
no more than the hand made one, and it will outlast
almost two sets of ordinary tyres. Cyclists will quickly
appreciate the advantages the Dunlop co’s new tyre
offers. The present output of these covers from the
Dunlop Mills, Melbourne, is over 2,400 a week.


rP)°V^
The so-called Kyabram movement) nev«
emanated from JCyabraro, but from- Queen-st.
and F)indera-lane, apd was largely direpted by
F. T. Derbam,
fi' fire") Ity t
\\di3coVe^«3
m
«. ’“V,
?•«* t of»'**'v>V t
-no*® ,o' St ' A W* JSs' oo
~ lB *"* v\»»*? «.»® , n »«<*'^
'* C'» ,v o*o,*to»t»e-
-*cT tee«* ~ tf®* 0^
'&*»* *
(Jo®’ <
rfe
1 m i
V—A QoV
V*- *>*
-^vl[i^7ce
vof
ew B e || ?
CIVIL SERVANTS AND POLITICS.
BREACHES OF TRE REGULATION'S.
From meeting and aoting in saoret, public,
■officers hare come out into the open, and.
regulations notwithstanding, are taking up an
Attitude of defianoe This disloyalty—not tr
say rebellion—may bo checked by aalutary
punishment
We 'ttje Criefr'
* s S, f
O'docK civil Se^«'S
-lo W ©r
tya/e. 'fti'*’ *703*25 siiir^
kIW
MaH of „ s k» Mr
* h/m, <2s "Tcnnj^osj
W* ° }Us 7 i
THE LAPSED FACTORIES ACT.
The Premier’s manifesto promises that
immediately upon the reassembling of Par-
liament the Government will introduoe a
Bill to reinstate the Factories Acts. And
the Government’s wish is that in the mean-
time employers will go on as if the law bad
not lapsed.
|kvh7€ I’Ke) v
|>4oW yo«H l?e Kin<&
-to Ipm 'ttll IS^’ 1 ?.
— vont" you ;
Visitor : bs
s>o aJ’oaf ?
K?«)>e r^
'jouy'c A U*> out' njenjber
CURRENT VICTORIAN MATTERS.


CAST INTO OUTER DARKNESS.
( AS IMAGINED BY PHILPITES AND PERIPATETIC PARSONS)
A vision of the gentle Kanaka, converted by time you's of Qucensland run and civilisation, returning to his ferocious and bounding relative who has stayed
at home. The Rio Loge came back and reported that it had landed all its Kanakas without anything like the above happening, but the vision is still in good
working order all the same.


A. SAUNDERS
FOR WEDDING PRESENTS, USEFUL AND ACCEPTABLE.
Showrooms: 815 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
\t :
As;
,/f-^
VI
CM
A. SAI NDERS.
Two SERVIETTE RINGS, iu Silk-lined Case,
Pure Silver-plated on Hard Nickel Silver,
in three similar patterns of ferns, 12s Cd, 15s 6d ;
Pure Solid Silver, 30s, 355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE I)ISH, makes Two Dishes,
Pure Silver-plated on White Nickel Silver, 40s.
Other styles, £2 10s to £6.
A.. SAUNDERS.
0102 —HOT WATER KETTLE and STAND,
Silver-plated on White Metal, Extra Chased, £2 10s.
Similar Designs, £2, £3, £3 10s.
m
m&m
,u
fe iii
TEA POT, Extra Heavy Silver-plated, 27s 6d.
Similar styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Silver-plated CRUET,
as above, 21s.
EGG CRUET, Pure Silver-plated,
with Spoons, 255.
Other styles, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, White or Coloured
Ornamented Glass, Pure Silver electro-
plated on Hard Nickel Silver, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Beautiful 8-Day, striking hours and half-hours, Marblette CLOCK, £2 2s 6d.
Reliable Timekeepers.
A MOST ACCEPTABLE PRESENT.
Post Free Anywhere.
JAM or BUTTER KNIFE,
Pure Silver-plated on Hard
White Metal, 2s, 2s (3d, 3s (id,
4s (3d. Special Value.
CANDLESTICK,
Pure Silver-plated, 12s 6d.
Leaf Pattern, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oak DINNER GONG, Silver-plated Mounted, £2 10s
Other styles, 17s 6d, 2Cs, 255, 30s.
A NICE PRESENT.
B@T WE GUARANTEE YOU THE UTMOST
SATISFACTION.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST FREE.
A. SAUNDEKS.
Silver-plated
FLORAL STAND,
Ruby Glass, 12s 6d
a pair.
Very Cheap.
SALTS,
Silver-plated Stands,
6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsomely Chased, First-class, A 1 TEA and COFFEE SET, £8 10s. B Quality, £6 10s. TEA SET only, £3 10s and £4 4s.
Other styles, £5 ss, £6 6s to £2O. Send for Illustrated Book.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE,
Silver Electro-plated, Handsomely
Chased, 16s 6d and 20s ;
extra quality, 255, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver BOOK MARK, 2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
A 1 duality 4 o’clock CAKE FORKS, Pure Silver-plated on
Hard White Metal, 10s 6d and 12s 6d half-dozen.
Our Silverplate is England’s
Highest Quality.
A. SAUNDERS.
812-I.—Oak BISCUIT, Silver-], lated
Mounted, 20s ; Shield only, -15 s ;
Fluted Rims, 25s ; Floral China
Mounted, 15s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated on Hare
Nickel Silver. Beautifully Chased and Ornamented, 35s
can be used as Cake Dish or Salver. Similar styles, 21s, 25s
80s, £2, £2 10s. A USEFUL PRESENT.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, Beautifully Chaßed,
85s, £2, £2 10s, £3. Cheaper styles, 20a, SSs, 30s.
in
m
m
\i
l
A. SAUNDERS.
Eirst-class 4-Bottle CRUET,
Silver-plated, 355. Similar. 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oak INKSTAND. Highest Quality, £2 10s.
Other styles, Silver-plated, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3.
A. SAT7NDEBS.
Beautifully Chased and Carved JEWEL CASE,
Pure Silver-plated, Silk-lined, 15s 6d.
POCKET SPIRIT FLASKS.
All Sorts, Prices, and Styles, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s,
20s, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Double JAMS, Floral Ornamented China, 255, 30a.
In single, 15s (id. Pure Silver-plated Rims.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER AND SILVERSMITH,
815 AND 817 GEORGE-ST.,
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY.


“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.’’
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
“Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
Thj Lancet.
BRANDY.
SUMMER
SUITINGS
JUST LANDED.
IN WORSTEDS, TWEEDS, and WEST.OF
ENGLAND WOOLLENS. Also a Large
and Varied Assortment of FANCY FLANNEL
SUITINGS, in Greys, Blues and Shades.
We cordially invite a visit of inspection from
old and new customers.
WE GUARANTEE A PERFECTLY
FITTING SUIT.
David Braham&Go.
TAILORS AND MERCERS,
73 & 75 King-st., Sydney.
SPOONERS
SPOONERS
f« %
.p, mm* w^rmmrnm
IWTBHT LEATHER BQOTS
’GLAZED KIDS&?
?*>***s
%•»«*»«. \m**+
m
.. »%* *
> r—*■ «h» *—* l,,,i
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Hoots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
Tlie Best Dressing for
HARNESS HEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
! Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
lioot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
IN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade— viz., the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
Oct. gold-tilled wire, with heart pendant ; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0, or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, 15cb,
gold, filled, Bs. fid. Illustrated catalogues sent free.
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address —
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA
Missing Friends.
knowing the whereabouts of
MRS. AGNES CARTER,
who was last heard of in Perth, West Australia,
is requested to communicate with A.T.P.,
P.O. MacKinlay, Queensland.
R.e SEaplands Trust.
“Ashby v. Borer, 1899, S. 4182.”
WHEREAS by an ORDER of the HIGH COURT of
VV JUSTICE, CHANCERY DIVISION, dated the 22nd
day of July, 1892, and made in the Matter of (the Trusts
of the Settlement, dated the Ist day of June, 1853, made
on the Marriage of ROBERT SHAPLAND and HARRIETT
lIAYTER, both Deceased, and in an action wherein JANE
ASIIBY, the wife of THOMAS ASHBY, suing in respect
of her separate Estate, is Plaintiff, and WILLIAM BORER
and WILLIAM REEVES Defendants. It was Ordered
that the following Enquiry be taken and made, namely:—
Whether CHARLES HAYTER, Brother of HARRIETT
SHAPLAND (formerly HAYTER), CHARLES FREDERIC
HAYTER, Son of GEORGE HAYTER (another Brother
of the said HARRIETT HAYTER), NELSON HAYTER
(another Son of the said GEORGE HAYTER), and
GEORGE TOLHURST (Son of CHARITY TOLHURST),
a Sister of the said HARRIETT SHAPLAND, formerly
HAYTER, are respectively living, or dead, and if dead
when they respectively died, and as to such of them as
have died since the 26th March, 1899, who are their
respective Legal Personal Representatives, and if the said
CHARLES HAYTER died prior to the said 26th day of
March, 1899, whether he left any and what issue, and
whether such issue are living or dead, and if dead w'hen
they respectively died, and who are the Legal Personal
Representatives of such of them as have died since the
said 26th day of March, 1899.
NOTICE is Hereby Given that the said CHARLES
HAYTER, if living, his Legal Personal Representatives if
he died since the 26th day of March, 1899, and his children
or issue (if any) if he died prior to the said 26th day of
March, 1899, and also the said CHARLES FREDERIC
HAYTER, NELSON HAYTER, and GEORGE TOL-
HURST (if living), or their Legal Personal Representa-
tives if they died since the 26th day of March, 1899, are,
by their Solicitors, on or before the' 2nd day of December,
1902, to come in and prove their Claims at the Chambers of
Mr. Justice Byrne and Mr. Justice Buckley, at the Royal
Courts of Justice, Strand, London, or in default thereof
they will be peremptorily excluded from the benefit of
the said Order. Tuesday, the 9th day of December, 1902,
at 11 o’clock in the forenoon, at the said Chambers, is
appointed for hearing and adjudicating upon the Claims.
Dated this 11th day of August, 1902!
RICH D. WHITE, Master.
RACK HAM & CO.,
46 Lincoln’s-inn-tields, London, England,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin writers. Cloth, 300 pages ;
price, Is. 6d. ; postage, 6d,
y SOLE DiSTIUIIUTING AGENTS :
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane
Victorian Selectors’ Rents.
Although Victoria appears to be in a bad finan-
cial state, it is largely because the supporters of
the Kyabram propc «iH who are farmers in irri-
gation districts, have repudiated the principal
sums they borrowed from the Govt., and only
occasionally even pay the interest; likewise
because those of them who are selectors don’t pay
up the nominal rents they are charged for being
allowed to become owners of Government lands,
and also, under the absurd Vie. law, escape
land-tax. These rents and arrears would
pay off the accumulated deficit. And it is
nothing short of monstrous that the people,
who are nagging at the Govt, to ruin the
Factories Act, to break their contracts with the
public servants, to turn off hundreds of casual
employees of the State, and to turn a deaf ear to
the troubles of the unemployed, should in hundreds
and thousands of cases be earning interest in
the banks on money which belongs to the Govern-
ment. There are many cases of hardship among
selectors, but there are myriads of them who can
well afford to pay their just debts in this time of
the State’s needs, for Victoria, in the main, has
escaped the drought curse, and is doing well.
Selectors have many privileges which the rest of
the people have paid dearly to secure for them.
For their sakes the costly irrigation works have
been made, the most crushing burdens in unpro-
ductive railways have been incurred, and expen-
sive and liberally-scattered State school, post-office
and police accommodation has been provided.
They have been given a majority voice in the
Assembly, whereas their numbers only entitle
them to a minority voice. They are all electors
of the Legislative Council, too —a right denied to
most of the workers. They are allowed to sweat
their employees without limit, being exempt from
any Minimum Wage law-; no Health Act applies
to them ; they get large grants every year to help
keep their roads in order; they get seed wheat
lent them in times of distress, and all sorts
of facilities to build tanks, erect rabbit-
proof fencing, and to engage in novel indus-
tries. The Agricultural Department scours Europe
and America to find the best experts to teach
them how to make money. Most of these privi-
leges are not grudged to the selectors, but it is not
unfair to demand that, before they put new bur-
dens on, and deny rights to, other classes in the
community, they should at least pay their very
light debts to the State. No harshness is urged
to those really distressed, but there are a
great number of selectors who could easily
wipe off their obligations to the State.
As for those who, instead of paying their
arrears, are getting interest on the amount in the
U ’ ' until a threat of forfeiture comes, it is the
plain duty of the Government to bring the whole
machinery of the Lands Department into drastic
operation against such thieves. Premier Irvine
says that he cannot neglect the general interests
of the State for a small class, even though that
class consists of starving men, women and children.
Let him make good Lis statement in case of this
class of land-owners, for whose benefit the whole
interests of the State have been shamefully sacri-
ficed in the past, and whose neglect to pay their
honest debts to a generous creditor is the cause of
much of the present difficulty as regards the
State’s finances.
The Dead March in Irrigation.
There never was a funeral so slow as the State of
N.S.W. in the work of irrigation. It moves
a step in a quarter of a century. It is only one
step so far, and then a dead halt for a generation
at least. One step with the artesian water was
Pera bore —12 years since it was made. Another
with an irrigation colony at Hay—10 years.old,
and still sole in the land. One step in the way of
cutting a new channel for the Murray water—
plans completed in 1887 ; no water running yet,
and no other channel begun. Yet, with 10,000,000
acres of rich artesian country surveyed, a dozen
streams, with periodic supplies, are running to
waste east and west of the dividing range. An irri-
gation system, moving to quick time, would change
all that. But here people only mark time. The
Devil’s toe of this drought even fails to kick them
into motion. And yet they wonder that Victoria
still leads Australia. Victoria has got a patch of
mallee and dry country in her north-west, as bad
and as good as any of the N.S. W. West, and in
area about one-tenth of the Western Division.
What is she doing with it ? She stuck Mil-
dura there, 12 years ago, and now the rail-
way is going out fast. But not alone. To
right and left of that line are two water service
schemes—the left, from the Wimuiera waters, im-
pounded at Lake Lonsdale ; the right, from the
Murray, at Tooleybuc. The first scheme is
under weigh, and will be completed before
the railway; and the second has only been
delayed by a bit of log-rolling in favor of
a crazed £2,000,000 Goulburn Valley idea. Lake
Lonsdale scheme will be finished for £200,000.
Tooleybuc is estimated to cost £127,000, and the
two completed will make the oi-dinary mallee
settler’s life tolerable and pave the way for irriga-
tion development which will follow the railway
opening at Mildura. All this in the vvorst corner
of Australia’s smallest. State, three parts of it
covered with mallee, infested with dingoes, foxes
and rabbits and with a. {rainfall less than Bourke’s.
Truly one of the worst things “ Home ” ever did
for Australia was the fixing of the Victorian
boundary at the Murray and not the Murrum-
bidgee. There would have been a new face on
the continent by now had the enterprise of the
“cabbage-gardeners” been permitted that field
for its operations.
The Happy Teacher.
From March number of Vic. Education Gazette
(1902):
Owing to the dearth of junior male teachers it has been
decided to alter the regulations so as to provide for the
preparation after future competitive exams, of two lists
of meritorious candidates, namel3 r —one of males and the
other of females. . . . Head teachers are requested to
assist the Department in obtaining a supply of male can-
didates. As most teachers are aware, a pupil teacher on
appointment receives £30 a year, and is entitled to a yearly
increment of £10 up to £60 a year on passing the requisite
examinations. The employment is thus more remunera-
tive than most to which a lad, from 16 years to 18 years
of age and of average ability, can be put.
That notice was apparently inspired by depart-
mental despair at getting Miss Jones to teach a
school in the backblocks, and sleep with the three
youngest of the selector’s family, and live on mut-
ton and sodden home-made bread. Also Miss
Jones, intellectually above the average bush-
hoodlum, felt instinctively that the chance of
mating suitably thereabouts was 300 to 1 against
her, and being allowed to decline, declined. The
male, on whom a male department wastes no
sympathy, wasn’t available. They wanted to
kick him out to Kookaburra, and there was
nothing to kick. So they inserted this misleading
bit of encouragement to male candidates of average
ability. Note the average. The notice is mislead-
ing, because (1) candidates are always nearer 18
years than 15 before they get into the service ; (2)
the future—a necessary grind of dull, staid respect-
ability on from £100 to £150 a year—is hidden.
This is all the candidate of average ability can ever
expect. And now, from the Argus, of September
4th, 1902, we learn that £700 a year will be
received by the Education Department from these
sources:
(1) Teachers will be charged from Is. 6d. to 5s. for their
parchment certificates.
(2) Candidates for employment must pay 2s. 6d., as
entrance fee, before they can attend competitive examina-
tions.
Now, just suppose a merchant advertised for a
clerk, and demanded 2s. 6d. entrance fee from
every candidate !!
»
“ Buzz ” writes
Re the blacks’ horror of being sent to Fraser’s Island
(Q.). It is not any especial dislike to Fraser, but to
restraint of any sort at all. The aboriginal is a tameless
animal, as tameless as his own native regent bird. lie
loves to rove over a big area ; and prefers to be half-
starved doing it rather than confined to a few acres with
plenty. This gathering of the aborigines into mission or
protection stations is one of the greatest cruelties the
whites have ever inflicted upon them. The blaekfellow
loves his own district, and clings to it with all his heart
and soul. His intelligence is only large enough to take
in the smallest of facts, and his own camping ground,
where he was born, is one of them—he will wander from
it, hut if he is sick or unhappy, it is there he wants to
be. This Fraser’s Island is a scandal the Queensland
Government will one day have to face and inquire into.
The year before last a half-caste gin was taken from near
Yaamba, Rockhampton, against her will. She was earn-
ing her own living as housekeeper on a station at the
time ; could read and did write up to her friends at
Yaamba, asking them to intercede and get her back. As
she put it: “ If I am to work, why was I brought away
from a place where I was getting good wages to a place
where I get no money and have plenty more hard work.”
It looks as if some one at Fraser wanted a good house-
keeper. A half-caste stockman wanted to marry her and
wrote to the authorities at Fraser to that effect. He
hardly wrote to the right quarter. The “ Sacred Ibis ” is
not so greatly beloved by the blacks as most people sup-
pose.
The heartiest eater of toads in Australia
is a Melbourne personage of importance, who
is boss cookie of a public institution, and yet
a man who bears himself humbly
and lowly in the company of dis-
tinguished people. Likewise, the
presence of a title in the same
street makes his backbone as
pliable as a whip-lash. Other
night, Sir Whatsthis and
“ his lady” and various con-
spicuous persons were at
the theatre. The obsequious
moderately-great man was
also there, keeping an adoring
eye upon the grand pfirty.
When the show was over the
former made a dasli for the
stairs, and a minute later was
opening the carriage-door for
Sir Whatsthis and his people,
and bowing again and again
with the ardor of a trained
lackey as magnificence climbed
into the vehicle.
The £1300 raised at the Coro-
nation Carnival in Melb. Exhibi-
tion for the purpose of assisting
the unemployed has been handed
over to a committee of Important
Public Personages, and they have
resolved to devote the money to
assisting men to gain farming ex-
perience on a labor colony, “from
which they can be placed on good
land by the Government.” It is
not a cheering outlook. The farm-
ing experience mostly gained on
Vic. labor colonies is the experience
that drives farmers to stick straws
in their whiskers, and take to the
trees howling. Few of the labor colonies promise
to be good for anything till fertilised with the
bones of generations of heart-broken settlers.
Colliery Explosions.
“ Jimmy S.” on the coal-miner’s risks :
The safety of mining conditions is jeopardised by the
strenuous resistance of both miners and proprietors
whenever a Govt, inspector proposes the introduction of
safety lamps into a gassy mine. To anyone acquainted
with the ordinary safety lamp, the miner’s objection
appears verj T reasonable. The lamp has to be placed well
back from the swing of the pick. The flame is little
larger than a thumb-nail, and is protected by a glass Jin.
thick and 3in. long. When this glass is smoked and
coated with mine moisture the strain on the eyes can
well be imagined. Perhaps, acting on the principle of
adaptation to conditions, this may result in the evolution
of a new type of miner born without eyes, like fish in the
Jenolan Caves.
A slight jar, a sudden raising or lowering, puts a lamp
out. The miner has then to take his mate’s lamp, and go
to the lamp cabin to have his own lamp unlocked and re-
lit. Work is thus suspended until his return. With a
safety lamp, considerable time is lost cleaning the coal.
If a miner fills dirty coal, he must pay the penalty—lose
a day’s work. Where safety lamps are used, the miner
cannot fire his own shots. The shot-firers have stated
times for making their rounds, and, if the miner is not
quite ready, he must wait until the next round. Shots
are fired by a wire heated in the firer’s special lamp, or,
where there is a slight indication of gas, by a battery.
Lastly, a bad roof cannot readily be detected with a
safety, and a careful miner takes up much time looking
for bad spots. The miner of to-day, who appoints a sala-
ried district check inspector, and has also a local check
inspector working at the mine, cannot be compared with
the drunken, reckless “ underground savage ” of former
years, who returned to the coal-face five minutes after a
miss-shot; who entered the pub. coming from work on a
pay Friday night and started work on Tuesday morning
with the same old coating of coal-dust on his face.
Summed up, tire miners’ objection to the “firefly” is
better more danger than less tucker for all the draw-
backs of the safety they ask for a slight increase in the
hewing rate. ....
There are , three collieries in the Newcastle district
worked with safety lamps, and the introduction of safeties
at one of them marks an era in Newcastle’s coal-mining
history—it was not preceded by an explosion.
A seam may be giving off only a small percentage of
gas, but the safety of that mine must not be judged by
the general working conditions. It is a possible flaw in
these conditions that must be guarded against. For
instance : A wheeler is hurrying with the last set and
knocks a few tacks off the canvas stopping, used to divert
some of the air-current to where men are working. He
fails to notice and report same. Let this pag’e represent
a canvas stopping diverting so many thousands of feet of
air per minute. Turn down a corner and we get a correct
idea of the damaged stopping. As the current strikes this
corner with direct velocity far more than a proportionate
amount of air fails to be diverted.
Suppose gas is being given off from a freshly-exposed
coal-surface and there is not sufficient air to drive it out.
It rises to a broken roof. The examing deputy makes a
hurried examination—there can’t possibly be gas only
60yds. from the shaft bottom—and reports “all safe.”
Examiners’ districts are often too extensive and lie must
push on. The stopping is repaired later, and a good
current follows. But special means must be adopted to
drive an accumulation of gas out. From the gas in the
broken roof to the floor is probably 14ft., and the men
have been known to pass underneath with naked lights
without danger. But the trouble would come when the
timberer climbed on a heap of stones with a naked light
on his head.
Of all the dangers incidental to life below the surface
none is more to be feared than a heavy fall displacing
gas in old workings. When this occurs the gas must find
an outlet somewhere, and brick stoppings are straws in
the march of the tempest rushing on till it gains fresh
vigor from a naked lamp. That simply shows the neo; s-
sity of having all old workings effectively timbered,
inspected, and included in the ventilation system of the
new workings. If, under the present Act, an inspector
cannot compel the use of safety lamps, then the Govt.
Inspectors Enabling Act, last year before the British Par-
liament, should be seriously considered by the Legisla-
ture. Surely we are not waiting for a few more
holocausts to strengthen the inspectors’ hands.
♦
“ A masterful devil is much more inspiring
than an angel suffering from nervous prostration.
—American preacher.
A MUFF IS WHAT TAKES A LADY’S
HAND WITHOUT SQUEEZING IT.
“I’ve just had my photoyraph taken with my
new muff.” “ Who is he?”
“E.D.M.” : “ Why is Australian meat so
much cheaper in England than it is in the Com-
■ monwealth ?” Why ? Because Australia has to
send £16,000,000a year to pay interest onpublicand
private foreign debt. Mutton-chops and rump-
steak are just as good as gold or wool for that
purpose. Something has to be exported to meet
our political grandfathers’ debts in dear old
Hingland.
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England,*
Thrilling descriptive item from Ballarat
Star : —
Some amusement was caused at the Western railwav
station last night by a sorry looking individual presenting
himself and asking if they had a truck of pigs for him.
On being answered in the negative, he demurred rather
loudly, but had to go away without his porkers.
And the statued city, where the fact of a man
asking if his truck of pigs has come is considered
worth recording in the papers, wanted to be the
Federal capital !


SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO., 88 King-st.,
SYDNEY,
A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
A most useful Y eterinary Book is attached
to every bottle of Gondy’s Fluid. This Book
contains instructions for curing most of the
ailments and accidents affecting Horses,
Dogs, Sheep, Cattle and Poultry.
In this Book eminent Veterinary Sur-
geons recommend Condy’s Fluid as a
certain cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
Broken Knees, Grease, Thrush and
Cracked Heels in Horses.—Scab, Foot
Rot, Fly, etc., in Sheep.—Hoove, Foul in
the Foot, Wounds and Sores in Cattle.
Condy’s Fluid is made by Condy &
Mitcheil, Ltd., of 65, Goswell Road,
London, England, and is sold by all
Chemists and Stores. Beware of Colonial
substitutes. Insist on having Oondv’s Fluid.
19
u
D.C
V
K
S
H
W
GO TO HBLL-
IGOIiA Nll for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei>,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Max Hirsch has donned the war paint and
feathers for the third time, to again contest Man-
d trang (Vic.) electorate, against old-established
sitting member O’Neill (of Anti - Cigarette Bill
fame). Max’s desire to enter politics has become
more than an unremunerative hobby; it is now a
mania 1
Premier See says that he proposes neither
to abolish nor alter the N.S.W. Agent-General’s
department in London. If the other States follow
suit this will be the only country of 4,000,000
people which maintains seven ambassadors in
London. The two Kings of Barataria were a
small joke by comparison. /
The Vic. railway-men are organising solidly.
The latest move is the formation of the Victorian
Railways Clerical Association which already
numbers 600 members, and the stationmasters are
coming under the Association’s wing. Seemingly
the chance of another climb-down being necessary
iu time of trouble is being minimised !
During the present Vic. elections the
Irvine Govt, will have the support of the con-
servative Argus, the “Liberal” Age, the Vic.
Employers’ Federation, the Stock Exchange, the
Chamber of Commerce and the Citizens’ “Re-
form” League. You may .know a Government by
the company it keeps.
M‘Donald, membfe* for Footscray (Vic.),
when elected at a recent bye-election, was pointed
at as tangible evidence of the triumph of Kyabram.
Every ’pootra got on his mound and crowed.
Now the same M‘Donald is saddled with the curse
of every Kyabramite for having moved the amend-
ment that caused the dissolution that will cost the
stricken Cabbage-Garden close on £lO,OOO.
Sydney D.T. publishes this amongst its
country news:
Windsor, Tuesday.—Times were never known to be so
bad in the district as now. Industries that have invari-
ably thriven have either been shut down or are working
short-handed. This is a decided facer for the policy of
I‘rotection, the drought and the failure of crops not
having any effect on the industries in question.
Windsor is a one-horse, one-street N.S.W. town,
which lives on it 3 memories and the occasional
sale of a case of fruit. And it is represented as
stricken down by the ruin of its “industries”
through the creature Protection. It possesses a
butter factory, four tanneries (the drought has
reduced the supply of hides), and a gaol. Whioh
of these “industries” has the tariff ruined?
HORRIBLE POSSIBILITIES.
DOCTOR (to Mick, who has hurst into the surgery with a blanched face): “ What's the matter, Mick? ”
MICK : “ Some of the bhoys bet me five bob I couldn’t smaller a bin’s egg whole, an' Oi done it.”
DOCTOR: “ Well, is it hurting you?”
MICK : “Divil a bit; but it’s frightened Oi am, bad luck to it.”
DOCTOR: “If you got it down all right there shouldn’t be any danger.”
MICK : “ Whilloo! Oi'm frightened to smash it fer fear the bits uv shell ’ll stick in me gizzard;
an’ Oi’m frightened to let it stay fur fear it’ll hatch out a rooshter as’ll kick the
innards out o’ me.”
The motion of Broughton, M.L.A., for a
select committee to inquire into the housing of
the working classes in and around Sydney amounts
to mere pretentious humbug. Plenty is known
already about the housing of the working classes.
What is wanted is a remedy, not a long-dragged-
out inquiry into things that have been discovered
long ago. One remedy, if Broughton has such a
thing about his clothes, is worth a thousand
inquiries.
The alleged anti-Federal reaction, about
which so much has been said of late by papers
whose pauper aid in the shape of free postage is
going to be stopped, has been put to the proof in
one State at all events. Hall, of Waratah,
brought on his separation proposals in the
Tasmanian Assembly, and about two members
voted with him—apparently more to humor the
patient than anything else.
Six months ago Victorian Lands Minister
M’Kenzie, as bigoted a Conservative as ever
floated a big loen and cut down the wages of a
fellow-creature, declared that he would gladly
denounce the whole scheme of factory legislation
from every platform in the State. M'Kenzie is
now one of the Irvine Government which says, for
a wage, that its sincere friendship for the Fac-
tories Act is something too beautiful for words.
One possible good result of the Shiels-
Irvine upheaval is that it may compel the Labor
party to assume the responsibilities of the Parlia-
mentary Opposition, as in Queensland. At
present the Vic. Labor members practically
follow Peacock, but if that gentleman doesn’t
move a little faster they may be compelled to get
in front of Peacock.
Premier See’s excuse for the State’s empty
purse: “We spent £400,000 in sending troops to
S’Africa; £122,000 on the Federal inauguration
ceremonies ; £200,000 in stamping out the plague ;
£21,000 celebrating the arrival of the Duke and
Duchess of York.” Leave out the plague, which
should have been met with a local tax, and does
not the rest constitute the excuse of the razzle-
dazzler who awakes without the price of a beer ?
As usual, when a strike breaks down half-
way, it is the friendly employer who comes down
with the deadest thud. A.W.U. men are now
charging him 225. 6d., while the squatter who
fought the union is getting his work done for 20s.
And when the friendly squatter sees that he could
have saved half-a-crown if he had stood out a bit,
he is very likely to make up his mind tojdo it next
time.
One Melbourne employer, at least,
allowed no grass to grow under his feet before
taking advantage of the lapsing of the Factories
Act. He, boss of a fashionable city restaurant,
immediately rounded up his “hands,” and, bel-
lowing “It’s my turn now,” told them that in-
stead of the 60 hours a week allowed under the
defunct Act he would work them as long and as
hard as he choose, “ and there’ll be no half-holiday
nonsense either.” Two members of the Caterers’
Employees Union who ventured to protest were
promptly sacked “for interfering with my way of
doing business,” and sweating began as of yore.
The silly “secessionists” of N.S.W. are
allowed by the sympathetic D.T. to air every
nonsensical whim as a reason for separation.
Just now it is the Dawes Point question. Last
week it was the constitutional outrage involved in
the detaining of some importer’s vanman a few
hours at the Customs House. The dispute as to
whether the N.S.W. inhabitant owns Dawes
Point in his capacity as a citizen of N.S.W. or
owns it in his capacity as a citizen of the Common-
wealth doesn’t really matter a straw to anybody.
It is only another grindstone on which to grind
the axe of the importer, and the parochial crank,
and the Tory, and other debris.
Premier Barton comes back pledged to
recommend that Australia’s naval tribute be in-
creased to £200,000. Chamberlain tried to squeeze
his guest to the extent of £400,000, but failed,
Also Seddon proposed that Maoriland should pay
one-sixth of a naval subsidy of £240,000, and in
return should have one-third of the fleet per-
manently stationed in its waters, which, as a
cheeky attempt to swindle a near neighbor and
relative, was worthy of Richard.
Big heading to a recent Sydney Telegraph
item :
QUEENSLAND’S DESIRE FOR SEVERANCE.
TOWNSVILLE URGES IT.
Then the paragraph which followed set forth that
Plunkett, the Jeff Davis who has a secession pro-
Eosal on the Queensland Assembly notice-paper,
ad received one telegram congratulating him on
his action.
That beautiful Private Enterprise, the
Van Diemen’s Land Co., has lost an action
whereby it endeavored to assert its right to block
all access to 60 miles of the Tasmanian coast. The
V.D.L. Co.’s huge steal —mostly roadless, uncul-
tivated, shut off from settlement, a howling waste
of ignorance, mud and retrogression—blocks the
progress of N. W. Tasmania, and lies like a ton of
mud on the chest of civilisation ; and the co., in
its desire to lie even more heavily than it does, is
going to carry its present claim to the Privy
Council.
NOW, OR NEVER.
The poor elector makes a desperate attempt to get out of David Same's clutches.
Melbourne Argus (15/9/’02):
It is economy—economy to be achieved by reform and 1
retrenchment —economy in the Parliamentary establish-
ment and in all departments—economy that will prevent
further deficits, wipe out the floating deficit, strengthen
Victoria's credit in London.
It never strikes an Australian daily paper to sug-
gest knocking off the drink for a spell for any
other reason than as a preparation for another big
spree in the future.
Dog-in-the-mangerish is too complimentary
a term to apply to the action of the N.S.W.
Government in connection with the Murray
waters. What is the sin of Victoria ? How can
she hurt N.S.W. when all her canals are made ?
Premier See’s engineers could tell him that
N.S.W. proposes to put in her main tap a good
many inilas east of Victoria’s farthest up-river
“trespass.” When that tap and adjuncts
are ready (they are hardly begun) and N.S.W.
wants to irrigate, Victoria could only take
from the Murray what N.S.W. allowed to pass.
The Vic. irrigation works are far west—they only
touch the Murray when N.S.W. is about done
with it, and it is on the point of leaving
N.S.W. territory. The trouble is because Vic-
toria acts while N.S.W. “ reports,” protests and
whines.
The N.S.W. Land Courts are now busy
considering re-appraisements of the cookie’s C.P.’s.
Values have been lowered to five shillings per
acre upwards—generally a reduction to three-
fifths of first price, and thousands of selectors
with, as they thought, many years’ payments
ahead, are free. It is all very fine and large ; but
this sweeping away of hundreds of thousands of
future revenue, while the State sits disconsolate
on Cohen’s doorstep, is so like N.S.W.
Nansen moved, the other day, in the
Westralian Assembly, that a local mail would do
well enough for State Governor (he certainly does
well enough in Canada), but in the face of
“general opposition” he withdrew his motion.
Nansen has since thrown up the Opposition
leadership, after a very brief reign. He advanced
some progressive ideas (the above was one of them,
and the abolition of the useless and nefarious
Upper House was another) but he had a
tendency to back down in the face of “general
opposition.”
There was a pathetic scene in one of the
corridors at Melb. Treasury buildings the other
morning. Old man James Munro, the forlorn
ex-candidate for Dandenong, or somewhere, en-
countered the committee of the “ Citizens’ Reform
League,” and began to shriek over his wrongs.
The League had deserted him, or ignored him, in
his hour of expectancy, and Mu.nro felt like
banging it with his umbrella. Then Davies,
brother of Matthew, came gently into the un-
pleasantness, and led the poor, old, faded boomster
away to a cool place.
Vic. Opposition leader Peacock is just
now a lost-looking circumstance. Since he let
go his Bill for the election of a Convention to draft
a new State Constitution Peacock has drifted
from bad to worse, and has lost the run of one
thing after another. Now, he can’t effectively
attack Irvine’s miserably thin pretences of demo-
cratic sentiment. The obvious answer to any
attack is that Irvine may carry out democratic
reforms from interested motives without believing
in them ; while the country has tried Peacock and
found that his belief in democratic principles is of
little use, owing to the limpness of the believer.
The Jenkins Iscariot party, feeling sure
that the alleged Opposition will keep it in office,
grows aggressive. Government whip O’Loughlin,
the mildest-mannered man in S.A., who wouldn’t
harm a fly if the fly’s vote was of any importance,
called Labor-leader Price an “arrant ass” lately,
and also accused him of telling tarradiddles, and
the Premier cheered approval of his minion’s
aggressiveness. Still, the Labor vote will be
wanted again some day, and then Jenkins and
O’Loughlin will crawl once more.
Advertisement from Melbourne Age :
TO Parliamentary Candidates.— Addresses,
Speeches, &c., Prepared on Reform lines by ex-
perienced political pressman. Confidential, Country
Press Association, 369 Collins-st.
The Kyabram crowd is certainly playing the-
game for all it is worth. It is willing to find can-
didates, speeches, addresses, policy —to find any-
thing, in fact, except decent wages for its
employees and the money it owes the State over
its water-works swindle.
The champion fool-remark to date on the
Secessionist question is from Sydney E. News
leading columns :
Victoria, it appears, wants to construct a big canal and
a reservoir, and to fill them both with what an lmperia
Act of Parliament has declared to be N.S. Wales Murray
water. Suppose Victoria insists, and forthwith taps r
Then, having given up control of our army to the f ederal
Government, we are left, so to speak, under the whip, anui
helpless to enforce our rights—riparian or otherwise.
Italics ours.
Extract from the financial colomn of
Sydney D.T.:
The growth of Canadian banking has been remarkable
in the past 10 years, especially when we bear in mind that
those banking institutions are more restricted in their
business than is the case with the Australasian banks.
This is from the same financial column which p. 9-
dicts desolation and ruin to Australian banking if
the Canadian system is adopted here.
11l Maoriland, the natives have challenged
the titles of some white landholders, and the case
involves 1,500,000 acres of land—some of it held
by the Government. So a Bill has been intro-
duced providing that the natives shall not b&
allowed to appeal to the courts at all in the
matter, except with the permission of the
Governor-in-Council —which is just the Govern-
ment ; and when the Government happens itself to
be the defendant, it is really proposed that plain-
tiff must not sue defendant except by defendant’s
permission. If Paul Kruger had struck the idea
of enacting that a British subject must not sue a
Boer without the Boer’s permission, Maoriland
would have said that the thing was “unprece-
dented.” This also looks rather “unprecedented,”
but it is so much easier to recognise the other
fellow’s unprecedentedness than to recognise our
own unprecedentedness, even if our own unprece-
dentedness is the more unprecedented of the two.
The big flaw in the ingenious Trvine-Shiels
manifesto is its omission of any reference to the.
establishment of a permanent Vic. Factories Act-
All that is promised' is a temporary measure*
which those bitter opponents of Factory legisla-
tion, Irvine, McKenzie, and Cameron, and artful
dodgers Shiels and Taverner, no doubt feel sure,
will never get through the House of 48 Rich.
Landlords. No better proof could be desired of
Irvine’s intention to sell the workers, and play
into the hands of Flinders Lane. As it is, the.
Parliamentary labor representatives despair of get-
ting the Factories Act back in its old shape for some
years, and look upon the Wages Boards as already
lost. Every wage-earner whose vote is not cast,
this time for the retention of the Factories Act
above all other considerations will deserve a,
reduction of screw, increase of hours, and all the
evils that the Irvine-Robert-Reid-McKenzie-
Davies-Cameron-Sachse-Tommy Bent crowd has.
always desired to bring upon him.
Yic. Minister of Education (“ education ”
is usually the booby of the Ministry) Reid is,
starting to put his flabby finger into the already-
disorganised pie of the Education department..
His plaintive wail is of the abnormal cost of-
teachmg the young idea how to shoot —this in,
face of the notorious fact that the education vote
has been starved for years. Schools all over the-
State have been overcrowded for so long as the-
youngsters thereat can remember; schools that
were promised years ago in new districts are still
awaiting the finding of the necessary money ;
schools that were closed during the post-boom
depression have been pulled down and never re-
erected. And now the commercially-minded'
Reid proposes to lessen the expense by puttings
some 630 schools, whose average attendance is-
under 20, on a half-time basis; while others, with
an average attendance of under 10, are to be
satisfied with the occasional visit of a “ travelling
teacher.”
Tommy Bent is a cheerful soul. He de-
clares that Victoria has no national debt; it has
merely borrowed money and spent it on railways,
which could be sold, if need be, to some out-
sider (in which case the value of the lines-
would still be debt). According to this, the-
man who has bought a shirt and neglected to
pay for it isn’t in debt for a shirt, because he
still possesses the garment, in a frayed and worn
condition; and Britain has no national debt,
because Britain acquired its debt in acquiring
Canada, and Cape Colony, and Gibraltar, and
India, and Ireland, and in building its big iron-
clad fleet; and if it sold its fleet and the above
possessions, it would have no debt. Therefore,
according to Bent’s logic, it hasn’t any debt.
N.S.W. has apparently drunk its three-
headed Railway Commission to the dregs, and
now that the term for which the Commissioners
were appointed is ending, it is said that the three-
man system has rendered the whole railway ser-
vice unsound. The original Victorian commis-
sion, under Speight, was a one-man concern, so
was the original N.S.W. trinity under Chief-Com-
missioner Eddy, whose decisions his subordinate
Commissioners merely endorsed when required.
And when Charles Oliver, a former Under-Sec.
for Lands, with no railway experience, stepped
into Eddy’s shoes, they didn’t fit him. He could
not pronounco ex-cathedra on questions of railway
management, and was virtually only the president
of a board, liable to be outvoted by the other mem-
bers, who understood the business in hand perhaps
better than he. Hence the failure, and it seems
pretty clear that N.S.W. will have to appoint a
sole commissioner, general manager, or something,
of that sort.


S>6© (Jjhe Genuine)
LIPP PIANO.
LIPP PIANOS are tl\e leading'
Pianos of German Manufac-
ture. They have been in use
all over Australia for over
40 years —long enough to
prove their merits.
/■
X
Old Pianos taKen in Exchange
New Pianos on Easy Terms
Catalogues Free.
W. H. Paling (SL Co., Ltd.,
338 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
PALING’S (Patented)
VICTOR PIANOS.
Old
Pianos
taken
in
Exchange.
You
cannot buy
better value
than
Paling’s
New Creation
The
Three Pedal
* Victor ’
Upright
Grand
Piano.
74 Octaves. \
Built to Wear.
Guaranteed 7 years.
Free Catalogues.
w h. PALING ltd!
338 Geo.-st.,
Sydney.
10*
Catalogues Free
Pianos
Sold
on
Easy
Terms.
338 GEORGE, ST., SYDNEY
A PUZZLING CASE
SWELLING IN LEGS ACCOMPANIED BY
ACUTE PAINS.
CURED BY . . .
VITADATIO
35 Gas tlereagh-street,
Sydney, 4th March, 1901.
To Mr. PALMER.
Dear Sir, —Some months ago I was troubled with very
acute pains in my legs which I treated as gout, and
took different patent remedies from which I got no
relief; on the contrary gradually getting worse and
suffering intense pain, until at last I could not stand on
my feet and had to take to my bed, my friends noticed
the change which had come over me and advised me to
go to the hospital, and with their entreaties and knowing
how bad I was I decided to go, as I would receive the
best medical attention and skilful nursing. After
remaining there for some time I found I was getting
worse, and my complaint seemed to puzzle the medical
men attending me ; so I decided to leave the institution,
and with the aid of sticks reached home and took to my
bed again. About two weeks later a gentleman asked
me to try VITADATIO, and said that it had done
“ wonders for him ”; he very kindly sent me a bottle to
try. I found it act at once, and it did me so much good
that I continued to take it, the result being that I can do
without my sticks and am a changed man completely.
I have put fully a stone on in w.eight since I started to
take the medicine, and I cannot say too much in praise
of VITADATIO and what it has done for me. I am
deeply indebted to the gentleman who advised me to
take VITADATIO and the great benefit it has been to
ni“
You are at liberty to make what use you like of this
letter. Yours respectfully',
FRED. W. MOODY.
For further particulars ,
S. A. PALMER,
184 fPitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The Price of Medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
Begin as
Motoman
New electric roads are being built all the time,
requiring strong, intelligent, reliable
Young flen lor Motormen.
You might get such a position if you were
fitted for it, and, once in, there’s a chance to
rise. Our Correspondence Course in Electrical
Engineering teaches you the whole thing. We
teach also Steam and Mechanical Engineering,
Mechanical Drawing, Plumbing, Heating, Ven-
tilating.
Write for information and Handbook “ B.”
American School of Correspondence, Boston,
i Mass. Sydney Address : Box 629, C.P.O. i
Newman’s
Antiseptic Pastilles.
The Best for all Affections of the Throat.
TRY THEM. PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
S. HARRIS, M. P. S., Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Telei'hone 2285. 82 KING-BT., SYDNEY.
While Marconi has been perfecting his
system of upper-air wireless telegraphy, one
Armstrong, an Englishman, and Orbing, a Swede,
have been experimenting with earth-currents. A
year ago Armstrong had on a hill 2\ miles from
his house in Bucks an electric lamp, which,
though unconnected with the house by wires, he
could, from the house, light and extinguish at will
by merely pressing a button. Since then, apply-
ing the principle to the telephone, he has had
successful communication up to three miles, and
now states that he can supply a regular service to
subscribers at £1 a year.
A letter from the Far West—the bogus
Bulletin representative again:
A cove arrived at a bush pub., 400 miles from Sydney,
i the other night and said he was representing Tub
Bulletin, also that his bike had broken down a few miles
back and he had given it to a carrier to bring on, and also
he would stay the night. He was a nice little man, well
groomed, slight moustache, dark, and hands that were
the admiration of the girl and the envy of Mrs. Bung.
He ate enough for two, and afterwards retired to the par-
lor, where he spread himself on three chairs and read and
slept till midnight. Then the working staff of the hotel,
poking round to see if he’d gone to bed, so’s they could
turn out the slush lamp, found the room empty. They
presumed he’d gone to bed, so did ditto. He —your repre-
sentative —ain’t been seen or heard of since; the bed wasn’t
touched ; no carrier passed with a bike ; and the cove just
cut ’is stick in the dead of night without paying his
blanky bill. The population was much mystified and
contemplated dragging the only adjacent waterhole, but,
on second thoughts, decided not, lest they should stir up
the contents to such a,n extent that they wouldn’t settle
again. Again, if they found your representative people
might get to know of it, and raise a row about drinking
that water. So if your office will oblige by forwarding 2s.
fid. for meal and wear and tear of oxygen in the best par-
lor we’ll say no more about it.
.Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to perusellerr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
33 of this issue *
The People’s Prudential Assurance
Company, Limited.
Shareholders of the people’s prudential
ASSURANCE CO., Ltd., are hereby notified that a
DIVIDEND at the rate of Five Pounds per centum has
been declared, and is now payable at the Company’s
Offices, 14 Moore-street, Sydney'.
F. SPARROW, F.S.S., Secretary.
EVERY WOMAN
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new Vaginal Syringe.
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. Endorsed by Physicians.
MARVEL CO. ( Times Building, N. Y.
Sole Australasian Agents—
The Marvel Co. of Australia,
(Box 623 G.1’.0.) CAfIDEN BUILDINGS,
418 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W,
HAVE YOU ORDERED A PAIR YET ?
IF NOT,
THE
CALLAGHAN
BOOT
St,
-•••' ••
i
m
■■
- \ v
-
m
-
• :
ORDER
TO-DAY!
You
may
depend
upon
a perfect
fit,
perfect
comfort,
and
LONG
WEAR.
DUTY FREE
23/6
The CALLAGHAN Tan
WILLOW CALF Lace
BOOT, with made-to-order
appearance, whole goloshed,
fast color eyelets, in pointed
or medium toes,
A pair sent post and duty'!
free to any address in the I
Commonwealth upon receipt |
of J
24/6
The same style of Boot, in Black 1
Calf, for j
23/6
With these Boots you will have better appearing
ana more comfortable feet, exceptionally long wear,
and Save Money. If you live at a distance our
thoroughly systematised Mail Order Department will fit
you to your perfect satisfaction, or return 3 r our money We
want distant customers to be as pleased as those in town,
otate size of boot worn, and shape of toes desired.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 qeorce st., Sydney.


Banking, Public Companies, tc c.
Opon - all - Classes - of
Security.—-
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3W.5,-W
(|)ont deplete DJM. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
*JA CASTLEEEAGH ST., A
' SYDNEY *
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
' —'J’l I IS—,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. O. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Brijou Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299 assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—enuitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
file Bank of HorthQiseenstand
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 900 ... £350,000
Royal Bank of Queensland
hi 3i men. “
CAPITAL PAID-UP £451,307
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 181,859
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 56,000
£689,106
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, limvD. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABGHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
fliseeisland Smelting gompg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
•OUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-*-* Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. hid. of London
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, -Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clynk ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,500,000
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,285,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,285,000 0 0
Directors :
Hon. Ciias. K. Mackellar, M.L.C., President.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Auditors :
A. G. Milson, Esq. Harrington Palmer, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.-ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
GENTS.^
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
ess.— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Shipping:
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE'!
GEELONG
PORTLAND j
WARRNAMBOOL J
Peregrine, Saturday, Sept. 27,2 p.m.
Gabo, Tuesday, Sept. 30, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tuesday, Sept. 30, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
PREMANTLE
Gabo, Tuesday, Sepfc. SO, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABKRG
Tyrian, Saturday, Sept. 27, 2 p.
Konoowarra, Tues., Sept. 30, 5
V 3
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
I Tyrian, Saturday, Sept. 27, 2 p.m.
[ Peregrine, Saturday, Oct. 4, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GEIIALDTON
CAIUNS. & c .
Lass o’ Qowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Oarifo
booked throusrh.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON Via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
PERSIC, to Sail on or about 24th OCTOBER.
RUNIC, MEDIC, AFRIC, and SUEVIC
to follow.
FARES—Capetown
London
New York, &c.
£l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
19 0 0 to 27 0 0
25 2 6 to 33 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, parker g Co’s [ine
MELBOURNE, HOIJAUT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
Pares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
LINE
via
San Francisco,
California.
NEW
SERIES
OF
EXCURSIONS
TO THE
RIVIERA
OF
AMERICA.
FIRST-CLASS THROUGHOUT.
COSTS £6O.
Covering Return Passages, Steamer and Rail, Hotel
Expenses in San Francisco, and Hotel Del Monte,
Southern California, about Ten Days’ stay in America,
with liberty to remain longer. Steamers leave as
follows:
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collina-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company's
business) £9576 13 4
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
°“r No. 56 ACETYLENE CAS Catalogue
is the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Best
ACETYLENE CAS GENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, and
everything in connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatlo
Acetylene Gas
Generators
in daily use.
Large Stocks of the
Best
Carbide
of* Calcium
Quotations on application.
James MARTIN & CO.,
161 Clarence Street,
Nr. King-st.,Sydney.
FIRST PRIZE
IN THE
8-hour^*
ART UNION
Wiio Wants It?
JBHQO for Is.
SECOND PRIZE, value £lOO
THIRD „ „ £5O
FOURTH „ „ £25
FIFTH * „ „ £2O
and 150 other Valuable Prizes.
Someone’s Sure to Win.
Buy your Tickets Early.
TICKETS may be had from Agents in all
Country Towns, or direct from
ALLAN McDOUGALL,* Secretary,
Eight-Hour Comn ittee,
Trades Hall, Sydney.
The Roman
Hair
Restorer
Produces Brown and Black Hair.
Price 1/6 ; by post, 2/3.
An inexpensive and
certain preparation for
renewing and restoring
'to its original color the
hair of the head, beard
and whiskers.
Largely used by the Roman ladies for preserving their
magnificent tresses. Nourishes the roots and removes
dandruff ; increases the quantity, and renders it glossy
and supple ; does not stain the skin nor soil the linen. If
your hair is falling off or turning grey, use this.
CAUTION.—This being different from most prepara-
tions, other kinds should be refused.
JAMES BRINSMEAD and C 0„ Chemists, ST. KILDA.
All Chemists sell it.
THE GREAT
{
OVERSEA 1
OVERLAND /
HIGHWAY
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM,
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, and AMERICA.
The NEWEST, LARGEST (6000 Tons each), FASTEST,
and ONLY TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS engaged in
the TRANS-PACIFIC PASSENGER SERVICE from
Australia and New Zealand.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCHA NIC ST HA HI SHIP CO., LTD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
3NT- ID. L.
(NORD-DIIUTSOHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
qPF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
Interstate First Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, orM.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. TANG LIN, 15th OCTOBER,
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL :
Oct. 6, Nov. 3, Dec. 1.
ALTERNATE ROUTES
Via
Brisbane or New Zealand,
Fiji, Honolulu, Vancouver and
Canadian-Pacific Railway.
THE SCENIC ROUTE OF THE WORLD.
Cheapest Mates. Quick Time.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY 0? N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
RUPTURE
CURFD
without
operation or pain,
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
! SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C S., ENG.,
Cor Russell & Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
Throw away
your Truss*
UIMSELF CURED
Mr. Robert E.
PARXHURST
■ ■ of ritt St., . c ydu y, says if anv »>uflerer from DEBILITY.
SIDNEY or BLADDER DISEASE w*ll write him he will inform
them of the perfect home cure that did the work in his case.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Allinga,
Friday, September 26.
S.S. Wollowra,
Saturday, September 27.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Rockton, Sat., Sept. 27.
S.S. Allinjra, Friday, Oct. 3.
S.S. Innamincka, Saturday,
October 11.
Jtest and Cheapest Jtonte to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith Co.,
Ld. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subjeot to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 Bill DUE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Goy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Muokay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Pori Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROOKHAMPTON—Twice weekly, via Bris-
bane, Maryborough, and Bundaberg.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 8 Weeks, via Brls
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEVV CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
via MELBOURNE—Fortnightly.
Vassenyer A ceoininodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, 10 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P. AND o.
COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £BB to £77
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Paoiflc,
Messageries Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room,
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
—imunMiffliiu mcmri..iuiyu.jin»a™
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will he dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKET'S AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris-and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt SI reet, Sydney.
R. BRASIER 1)E THUY, Principal Agent.
“E AND A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. Tns Commander. iLeave Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN .. 3001 p. T. Helms ..September 2i
GUTHRIE .. 250 'A. E. Dabelle ..October IS
EASTERN 830 Winthrop Ellis ..November If
AIItLIE 250GSt. John George.. December (
The above steamers wer ■ specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Through bookings to points in Canada, United States
of America and Europe at special rates.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
Lowest Fares and Freights.
Foi further information apply to
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
SMOKE
<#«
&
\
INSIST
having this Brand
and no other.
Largest Depot:
231 CLAR€NC€ STR€€T,


Disorders of
the Stomach
Regulated by
Chamberlain’s
Stomach and
Liver Tablets
Price 1/6. Just what you need.
Disorders of the stomach are, as a rule,
caused by a torpidity of the liver and bowels
and irregularity in living. When the diges-
tion is naturally weak, as is often the case
with people of middle age and older, too much
care cannot be used to keep the bowels
regular, for when they become constipated
the trouble is greatly aggravated. In fact,
constipation is the prime cause of nearly
all disorders of the stomach. Keeping the
bowels regular, however, will not alone cure
these disorders. Only easily digested food
should be taken, and that moderately and
well masticated, And at regular hours.
Fully six hours should elapse between meals,
so as to give ample time for digestion and
allow the stomach a period of rest before
more food is taken. The liver and whole
digestive apparatus needs toning up, for which
purpose take two Chamberlain’s Stomach
and Liver Tablets to begin with and then
one tablet each day for a few days until the
disorder is corrected, They should be taken
immediately after supper. In case one tablet
a day does not keep the bowels free, take two;
or if one each day causes the bowels to act
too freely, take only one every other day.
tfWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWV
NOTE.—If not able to obtain Chamber- [
| lain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets locally, i
1 a package will be sent, post paid, upon re-j
ceipt of 1/6, or six packets for 8/-, by j
addressing Chamberlain Medicine Co., 64!
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. 123 J
mmmmm
Hub
Wepm
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
Latest
Models*
,eS2« lO to£smsmO
Dunlop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any Port in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using 2*d. Stamp. Address Dept 346 D
Mead Cycle Co.
Chicago,
U.S.A.
The VOLCANIC
CRATING
MACHINE
W. JAME 3, Proprietor,
Saving l HOTELKEEPERS,
••••*> CAFE PROPRIETORS,
DERATED WATERS of the Highest Quality
produced with the utmost rapidity
WITHOUT SKILLED LABOR.
Absolutely the best and simplest
Machine in the market. SO~ Prick
£3O
TUBES CONTAIN 57Ibs. GAS.
CYLINDERS CONTAIN lOGals. WATER.
VALVE ACTS AUTOMATICALLY.
Write for Descriptive Pamphlets with Testimonials
from people who have used the Machine for years.
Office: 101 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
Depot : 130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
FOR INFANTS
AND INVALIDS.
Is adapted -for use from birth.
Send for Pamphlet and Samples to GOLLIN & CO., 562-4, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
50, Clarence Street, Sydney; Grenfell Street, Adelaide ; and Wellington.
biellin’s Food Company for Australia and New Zealand, Ltd., 56, Cannon Street, London, Engr.
; I II
■ f
%
THE YOUNG LADY
WHO KNOWS NOTHING
about Photography finds it
just as easy to take pictures
with the
“LITTLE
NIPPER”
as does the responsible
elderly gentleman who has
devoted years to the prac-
tice of snap-shotting.
Moreover, “The Little
Nipper” Camera is a dainty
article to carry, and never
fails its owner. It is small, but accurate and perfect in all its details. Simple to use
and certain in results. Price, including magazine for plates or films, good lens, time
and instantaneous shutter, and view-finder, ss. 6d. On sale at
The Baker & Rouse Proprietary, Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and BRISBANE.
THE
* PLUM’
P(D
THE
‘PLUM’
p ENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
vJT like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 78. 6d«
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
{Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 111
Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30a.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
fW Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS £r e “
French’s Acting Edition.
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Hooks Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEAL'.CIIE,
AND CONSTIPATION.
BILIOUSNESS,
SALT.’
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION, See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT,’ Without it you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. O. ENO, Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, ENG.,
by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
LEARN TO HYPNOTIZE!
<9
PROF.
Reader, do you desire to become a Hypnotist? Do you want to know how to utilize the most
powerful and mysterious force of nature? Do you value control over others ? Do you value the
means of securing friendship, love and personal influence. Do you \ alue the power to conquer
pain and banish sickness, to reform a misguided friend to gain business success, to win wealth,
position and happiness ? If you do, you must learn to Hypnotize. \V hy not ? No other accom-
plishment is so easily acquired. It can be mastered in a few hours time, without leaving your
home It posts nothing to find out &11 about it. ThG greatest Hypnotist of tho century Ims just
issued in book fibrin exhaustive TREATISE, OR INSTRUCTOR IN HYPNOTISM,
covering the whole ground of his Science, and he will send it while the edition lasts, absolutely
FRRE TO ALL who apply. The book is profusely illustrated, containing beautiful and artistic
engravings, and shows as never was done before the principles, features, wonders
and uses of this inysterious-Science. all in a popular and pleasing style. At tells
you just what Hypnotism is and hat you may accomplish with it. It shows you
how you may sway the minds of others, per.orm astounding feats,
and produce amusement hy the hour. New and instantaneous
methods. Success absolutely guaranteed. Remember this grand
work costs you nothing. It benefits everybody who reads it. It
places you in touch with the wonder-science of the age. Read
it anyhow. It is absolutely FREE. Apply at once to—
R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
GLOTH, 300 PAGES.
PRICE 4s. 6d.; POSTAGE 6d.
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS.
BLOW FLIES.
*
The OMLY destroyer—The “Buzz”
Window Trap, withFaulding’s
Insect Powder. All Stores.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos.
ss. P.O.C. or stamps.
S. RECKNACEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Germany.
BAPIT.I.A
HAIR
TONIC
The Wonder of the Age
ALL CHEMISTS
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA.
“Nymsie” writes about a class whose
death has been unduly postponed :
Would it be of any use warning the country people, and
“ wayback ” folks in particular, against the hawks who
pose as duly qualified opticians, make a great pretence of
taking the correct optical measurements, and supply
glasses to young and old at prices commensurate with the
humbug—and to-morrow have flown to repeat their
swindle further on. Three days ago a stylishly dressed
man, with a taking gift of the gab, exploited this village
(say Hayseedville). In two days he disposed of 70 pairs
of glasses, the majority in rolled, gold frames at £1 per
pair. Not five pairs suit the sights of the simple Simons
an hour after being used, but the saddest cases are those
where children have been fitted with glasses that will ruin
their sight if worn. The pill-pedlar commands my sym-
pathy, but the quack eye-doctor and bogus optician
deserves the cat, vigorously applied. Another matter
that needs attention in these days of opthalmia is the
habit, growing daily, of purchasing cheap specs, for the
family, from Dad to the “ Kiddy,” from the Hindu
hawkers. No wonder eye diseases are becoming an epi-
demic in the bush, and the questionable economy of
letting one pair of colored globulars go round the family
when sandy-blight, etc., attacks a wayback household
tells its own tale eventually. Blaze it on every tree —
“ Sight is priceless 1 ”
Trains.
“ Galvo ” : The Sydney folk who growl at their
electric trams (in reality one of the best-conducted
systems in the world from the passenger point of
view) should take a ride in an Auckland horse-
car and learn what bliss is. They are lugged
along by three fat,, lumbering mokes, whose chief
ambition is to lie down and rest; whilst the cars
are ancients arks from America —probably dis-
carded New York horse-cars. Each car might
easily have come all the way from Mt. Ararat,
and not have had a coat of paint since Noah
decided to let things slide. They spend part of
their time on the rails and part on the macada-
mised road, according to the driver’s fancy. No
one is in a hurry in Auckland, so occasionally a
cart is left across the tram-rails while its owner
does some shopping. That doesn’t worry the
car-driver. Not much ! He whips up his
mettlesome steeds, and pulls the car off on
to the metalsome road and round the
obstacle. Sometimes he’s able to get the
car on the rails again at once; most times
he bumps it along for a quarter-of-a-mile
with first one wheel on, then another, before he
succeeds. The passenger inside clings to his seat
like a ’possum to a gumtree, and gazes heaven-
wards at a stained-glass inscription on the roof
light, which says: “This car is fitted with
patent springs, contributing to quiet and ease.”
He wonders between jolts what it would be like
if it wasn’t fitted with patent springs. If you
want to pay a bill, or run up a bill, the car will
wait outside a shop while you do so, and when you
get in again the conductor will bang the door and
say “Thank you” as politely as if he meant it.
They won’t wait outside a pub., though, as in
Westralia, while you get a drink, because Maori-
land is nominally a temperance country, and
drinking mustn’t be encouraged. There is no
particular object gained by riding in an Auck-
land tram, except a good liver-shaking, for the
cars don’t travel above three miles an hour at a
fair average, and the lines are as devious as a
legal argument, so that by taking short cuts one
gets home much earlier on foot. Considering
the variety of sensations to be obtained from a
single ride, the fare of 3d. for a mile trip seems
dirt cheap. The humorous part of it all is that
the Auckland people glory in their horse-tram |
system, and the change to electric traction now
in progress was bitterly opposed—not because it
meant handing over what should be a handsome j
revenue-producing municipal asset to J. Bull, but
because it was an innovation. They hate innova-
tions in trams as much as they do in methods of
sewerage disposal, which is saying a good deal. j
The completion of the Mombasa-Uganda
railway in British East Africa is an item of
some slight interest to this country. The coast
districts of British East Africa are not fertile,
nor good for European settlement, and the exist-
ence of the tsetse fly, which is utterly destruc-
tive to all animals of burden, made it necessary
that the products of the prolific interior should
be carried to the coast by porters —an expensive
process, even when the carriers are paid only
with beads, copper wire, and turkey-red twill.
But the railway has changed all that, and goods
can now be brought from Uganda and Unyoro
to Port Mombasa as cheaply as they can from
Dubbo to Sydney. Uganda itself, which pro-
duces coffee, indigo, rubber, gums, and other
tropical exports, does not concern Australia
particularly. It is the high, rolling table-land
of Unyoro, which lies to the north, and north-
west of Uganda, that will eventually prove
this country’s trouble, for although almost under
the equator, its altitude gives it a temperate,
bracing climate and a plentiful rainfall, almost
equal to that of Maoriland. Its soil is suitable
for wheat-growing and for pastoral purs'-its, and
even before the advent of the railway, large quan-
tities of hides used to find their way to Mombasa
on the heads of porters. Iron is everywhere, also
copper and some gold. Added to this, there is
a plentiful supply of cheap colored labor, which is
rather more reliable than colored labor generally
is. The country is British territory, and garri-
soned by Soudanese troops under British officers,
and there is no fly in the country, and
no fever, and the soil is first-class, and
the access to the railway now quite easy.
In all probability, a large white population will
settle there, and, with closer proximity by several
thousand miles to the British market, their more
reliable rainfall and better soil, will promptly pro-
ceed to undersell in the European markets what
the Sydney Telegraph and the Dry Dog party are
pleased to call “our natural and staple products.”
The sooner Australia recognises that her
hold on the markets of Europe must diminish
yearly as the African continent is opened up, the
sooner will steps be taken to provide employment
for our people by the creation of other industries.


ROAD RACING
is not a sport that everyone cares to indulge in. Gentlemen, and ladies,
too, often very much prefer a country ride or a little touring. But, in
choosing a mount for theconntry ride or occasional tour, all the pleasure
is marred unless there is perfect confidence in the wheel.
THE RED BIRD BICYCLE
is often quoted as “ the Best Bicycle built.” At any rate, it is worthy
of note that nearly all the hardest road riders ride RED BIRDS.
GOOLP BICYCLE CO., 64 King-street, City,
Branches in every State.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Hardy’s Tintara Wines
Absolutely Pure;
Fully Matured;
700 MedaSs, etc.
Adelaide:
CURRIE STREET
Melbourne:
COLLINS STREEI
Sydney:
GROSVENOR STREET
SPORTING NOTIONS.
“Ihe Final Test Match,” writes The Bul-
letin’s London correspondent, “ has never been equalled
for extraordinary vicissitude and astounding ending. It
was a truly magnificent victory, and the most bigoted
Australmaniac, having one pin’s point of sportsmanship
in him, could not have grudged the victors their grittily-
won honors. It opened on a chilly August day to an
enormous crowd. They sat on the turf to the ropes for
twenty feet beyond the seats, they filled the five rows of
garden seats—no backless planks at the Oval—and stood
six and seven deep behind on the level asphalt.- A day of
changing phases. Australia none for 47, then 4 for 82.
Noble to rescue with Gregory— not the Sid of old—to 126.
Next Armstrong collaborated to 174, and, later, exit
Noble, a fine 52. Trumble—Hopkins, slow, dull, but
very useful play till latter pavilioned at 256. Kelly
started clumsily, then opened out and saw 324 go up and
total ended. i
“ Second round, England 5 for 65, then Austral
bain-ackers and, it is hugely suspected, Austral players,
fatally cheapened their opponents, and that ‘ reduced
valuation ’ only disappeared, drib by drab, in the tension
throes of that last ghastly hour. England should have
followed on. She didn’t. Now we follow her two
matches behind in the Test totals. The least said of
Australia’s flitter-flutter the better. Cheap estimates
still ruled, and 50 runs were flung away—some day
anterior to the sea giving up its dead we shall know why.
That the tour has not been a great financial success we
know, and at one period, it is said, the Melb. C. C. were
called on for aid. Well, you needn’t kill a centipede with
a steam hammer, but a tack hammer sometimes lets him
escape.
“Third Round —and a ‘count out.’ A worn,
patchy wicket that had yielded 628 runs was asked to
breed 263 more, in opposition to one of the finest
‘ cohesive ’ teams ever got together. Lunch-time : 5 for
87—4 to Saunders—and 176 to win. Then Jessop took a
hand, or rather two hands, four eyes, and six feet, and,
ye gods, Josses and Buddhas, how he did hit! He col-
lected runs as 1 kids ’ collect cherry-stones, not for style
or shape, but just mere quantity. His bat was one huge
flat scythe that reaped its crop every slogging swing, and
the crowd went sheer, raving, yelling, frantic. He
slogged Saunders off his food—he never got another
wicket, and was kept on too long—and even may have
disturbed Trumble, whose trundling, unchanged (34 overs,
108 runs, 4 wkts.), was superb to the last run. Hirst, a
nugget of pluck who couldn’t spell ‘ fear,’ finished the
good work. He lent Lilley and Rhodes his rigid back-
bone and vim, and both batted as if naught of conse-
quence was in suspense. Lockwood, with the ‘ Surrey
rot ’ in his bones, played like a cow in bail with its legs
tied to the stumps. He should have got two ducks., not
two runs. But the Yorkshire pros, finished like iron-
barks, and when Rhodes, after the tie, hit the winning
single, few onlookers knew whether the run was ever
completed, for pandemonic cheers reigned, the fieldsmen
rushed off, and the thousands fled in two mighty con-
verging armies across the ground to the pavilion gates.
“To sum up : Darling, in that last innings, was
not at his best as a general, and the chances missed are
nightmarish to think of now. Kelly will never, never be
a Blaekham. The hero of the vanquished team was
Trumble, easily; Noble next, Armstrong, Hopkins,
Saunders, and not least, though last, Trumper—oh, that
silly, suicidal run-out! ”
* • • *
London Times, writing about the difference
between Test Match conditions in Australia and England,
likewise the difference in representative character between
the teams sent from Australia to England and vice versa,
suggests that the alternating visits should happen not
oftenerthan every third year, for the reason that “ though
on patriotic grounds our leading amateurs may be per-
suaded to go to Australia once in six years, they will not
go oftener.” The Times hangs on to the genteel Tory
doctrine that several “ gentlemen ” are essential to a
propah All England Eleven, whereas Australian records
show that the best English teams seen in this country
during the past 20 years were composed entirely of pros.,
working under the speculative management of Shaw and
Shrewsbury—the same old Shrewsbury who topped the list
of batting averages this season. Amateur and prof essional
elements never seem to mingle effectively in a touring
eleven ; nor is it clear that any All England combination
can be made stronger than the best possible team of Players
only. The men we send ’Ome are for the time being pro-
fessionals—a profit-sharing band travelling as equals.
If the visits of English Elevens were arranged by the
authorities at this end with a view to cricket rather than
a desire to make a pot of money for the Melbourne
Cricket Club, and a treat for a few of the local girls who
chase the “gentlemen” around the sassiety circle, then
the teams would be all professionals playing in grim
earnest for the dollars.
* » * *
0. B. Fry, writing in the Strand, names Frank
Iredale above all other Australian batsmen for “ polish
of style.” Complimentary all round, he gives Trumper a
blazing record. “ A batsman of batsmen,” “ a great
lesson in cricket to watch how he uses his feet,” “ able
to play the same free-and-easy kind of game on all kinds
of wickets,” “ never had a superior in attractiveness of
style wedded to thorough efficiency.”
• * * *
“Adelaide” writes: Cabled statement of
Darling and Trumble that they will not visit England
again reads like a threat, but probably is merely a
prophecy. Trumble i, a wonder, but in 1905 he will be
38, and a bowler who kept up to international form at
that age would be a marvel indeed. It seems likely that
a fresh generation of. players will soon be called for, as it
was about 1894-5. Jones and Howell have pretty cer-
tainly made their last trip, perhaps Kelly, too. Saunders
and Hopkins look all right, but when a man does not gain
international honors till he is 27 his tenure is apt to be
precarious. Gregory and Carter-both doubtful, still I
would rather have Charlie Gregory’s chance of going to
England in 1905 than any one of those mentioned ; and am
also open to bet that (at the outside) not more than half
of the present team will go. - On the other hand, Trumper
and Noble, Hill and Duff, ought all to be at their absolute
best then ; and, with luck, Armstrong may by that time
be another Trumble. But there is a big chance coming
for some young bowlers and stumpers.
* * * *
Jessop’s upheaval of 104 in the fifth test, which
England won by a wicket, was marvellous. Before he
came in everything was cramped and labored—England
was down, with Australia standing over her, and Trumble
personified the giant dealing with puny martyrs. Jessop
went for victory—neck or nothing. Good length balls
were sent fluttering round to make a disturbance among
the serried ranks of spectators on the leg side. Saunders,
who came with his arm, went with his legs. Jessop liked
Saunders. He didn’t give the ball time to pitch and
break back in the way that had caused Saunders to be
dubbed the “Boomerang”; he never moved out of his
crease, but, stretching forward in that unique crouching
manner which has no imitators, got to the ball before it
could do its worst, and slogged fearfully, while all the
field wondered. Jessop’s 200 against Yorkshire at Lords
last year was more punishing, but in the cirs. this 104
topped his fame. Thrice he drove Trumble out of the
circle, the biggest stroke pitching clean over the pavilion.
And this despite that the wicket all through favored
bowlers. When the little man does let himself go he is
really great.
Australians finished up “down under’’oppos-
ing Players of England, and match resulted in a draw.
Players notched 356. Notable feature was Trumble’s
failure with the ball; his figures at the end were 1 for
129, while Saunders got 4 for 50, and Noble 3 for 85.
Next effort saw three British wickets down for 147. Of
these, Noble’s bag was 1 for 40, Armstrong’s 1 for 12, and
Hopkins’ 1 for 22. Visitors gathered 414 in their only
innings. Towards this Trumper brought 96, Clem Hill
81, and Trumble 68. Trumper’s compilation carried him
within 32 of an aggregate of 2600 ; while “Sid.” Gregory
wound up a tour, throughout which he has been singu-
larly and conspicuously unlucky, with a score of 22 (run
out) —just 1 short of his thousand. Noble wanted two
wickets to complete a hundred. Team left for S’Africa
Saturday last.
* * * *
Speaking of no-balling bowlers, a Melbourne
paper states that a certain Australian cricketer, who
thought he ought to have been chosen with the last team,
wrote to umpire Phillips, now in England, asking him to
no-ball Saunders when that player appeared on the
English cricket field. Phillips carefully pocketed the
letter, and showed it to the members of the Australian
Eleven ; now there is trouble in sight when the team
comes home—and a sorrowing man is daily practising
the Sandow system and boxing with a view to justifying
himself later on.
* » * •
“ A.”: Points from Australian XI. statistics.
Paddington (N.S.W.) supplied first and second in the
batting. The three Vic. trundlers were first, second, and
third in the bowling. Trumper batted 53 times, was
always out, never failed to score. Saunders, 34 times at
the wicket, never made double figures once, and amassed
84 runs altogether. Gregory missed his 1000 in all
matches by one run. Noble was two short of 100 wickets.
• • * *
Records held by 1902 team, and members of it.
Least number of matches lost, 2 ; most individual cen-
turies, 24 ; best aggregate (Trumper, 2670) ; highest aver-
age (48, Trumper).
* * * •
Cabled that gross receipts through Australians’
matches in England are £4270 less than those of last tour.
A big drop, but, at this, the fund won’t pan out too
badly, for the ’99 takings were much ahead of anything
known before, and, though the public heard that each
member of the combination secured £BOO, those who
ought to know insist that the dividend was considerably
more. M.O.C. people announce a profit, over recent tour
of Maclaren’s team in Australia, of £2794, which cannot
be called great, and this spite of Sydney record crowds.
» * * •
T’other day at Mallala (S.A.) a cricket team,
with six wickets down for 30 runs, was threatened with
ann'hilation, but two batsmen made a vigorous stand and
nearly 240 runs were smacked on for the seventh wicket
—a player named Dunstan hitting up 206 not out. The
S.A. inter-State selection committee should keep an eye
on such juniors, for among them are the champions of the
days to be. The Wheat State sadly wants another Hill or
Darling.
* * * *
N.S.W. Cricket Assn, should seriously consider
the advisability of bringing some of the best of the
country cricketers to Sydney with a view to their inclusion
in representative cricket. Last season there was plenty of
talent unearthed by Maclaren’s team in the country dis-
tricts, and it is time that N.S.W. was represented by
other than an eleven of metropolitan players in Sheffield
Shield matches. Certainly one or two are occasionally
given a chance against Queensland, Tasmania, or Maori-
land, which are considered weak cricketing States;
and if they are good enough for these fixtures they
should be good enough for inclusion against S.A. and
Vic. There has for many years been too much of the
orthodox cut-and-dried eleven representing N.S.W., and
it is time some of the young ’uns were given a chance.
• • * *
Affleck’s proposed Bill against playing on Sun-
day bore fruit at North Shore (Sydney) last week when a
policeman pounced down on five or six youths ■enjoying
their afternoon game of cricket, and arrested their
jaokets. He seemed to have a dim idea that it was too
soon to imprison the offenders themselves, so descended
on the heap of garments aforesaid and took them into
custody.
• a a «
“ Charley ” M‘Mahon, of Wentworth, judging
at the Adelaide September Show, told an interviewer that
the Darling River country is about played out as a re-
cruiting-ground for racers ; the breeders have sold their
best stallions for the Indian market and breed from any-
thing they have left. He advocates a tax on stallions, to
keep the brutes “ not worth a tenner” from perpetuating
rubbish.
* * * *
The first steeplechase started at Broken Hill,
15 years ago, isn’t finWhed yet. The favorite broke his
neck, ;the second ditto fell and broke up his rider, and
the {rest of them couldn’t find their way round and lost
the track. During the recent winter B.H. racing meetings
the reoord was one horse killed on each of the three days.
• * • «
Racing is a great game for all but the man (the
punter) who provides the wherewithal to keep it going.
V.A.T.O. report, to be presented Monday week, will tell
that stakes handed over during past 12 months totalled
£26,730 —£1110 in excess of the previous year’s amount.
Assets now show £11,052 better than liabilities. Cup and
Grand National meetings brought a profit of over £3OOO.
» * • *
Magda’s appropriation of the Spring Handicap
(lm.) at Port Adelaide Club’s meet on Saturday places her
• among the possibles in one or other of the coming Cups.
Her load at Caulfield will be 6.9 and at Flemington 7st.
On Saturday she humped Bst. to the front in 1.43 4-5.
Among other races that previously fell to same nag was
Adelaide R.C. Mayor’s Mile. Magda’s breeding too (by
Bill of Portland from La Tosca, by Robinson Crusoe) is
capital endorsement. At moment of penning this par.
her price for each Cup is 100 to 1.
* * * *
The second edition of Miller’s Sporting
Pamphlet is issued. The supplement gives the perform-
ances of Cup horses from July to September 15th and the
acceptances for both Cups up to the latter date. A good
few entrants seem to have dropped out since the first
edition of the pamphlet was issued. And still there’s
more to follow—nearly 100 more to follow.
» * • *
Only fitting that Mo. should have a good time
at City Tatt.’s Randwick meet, Saturday. Weronga,
twice heavily supported by owner Fielder during recent
A.J.C. Spring four days, gathered Flying Hep., going
out, not much wanted, at tens and twelves. In this race
running of red-hot favorite (5 to 2) Purser, whose big-
falling off since his sensational second to Sir Foote in the
Doncaster Hep. last Autumn, has sorely puzzled punters,
was questioned by stewards (more wide-awake than
usual), and owner Kelso and jock Want were severely
cautioned. Weronga also closed on Club Hep. ; this time
weightily backed. Biggest knock public experienced
during a very bad day was through principal event (City
Tatts. Hep.), which fell to rankest outsider of the field,
Still Water—a most pronounced in-and-outer, who lined
up at 12’s, while his stable chum, The Maine, was in
much demand at B’s. Still Water is a 4yr. old by Far
Niente (imp.) from Rivula, and fully sustains the reputa-
tion of all the same get, in that it is impossible to rely
upon him. He’ll show something tip-top to-day and sink
very flat to-morrow. Disappointments of the race were'
Westralian crack Warrior 11. and Lucknow, which dis-
puted favoritism. Warrior and Still Water were toge-;
ther in front till the home turn, where the former;
chucked it palpably. Trainer Lamond gave Warrior 11.
as something choice for the Metrop, but the nag made
no show at all, though on the track he travels and stays
good enough for anything. Still Water has Caulfield
(6.13) and Melbourne Cups’ (7st.) engagements and a fair
chance in one or other if he only runs honest.
• • * *
Man who drew Queen of Sheba in Tatt.’s
Metrop. sweep lives in Adelaide suburb Bowden, and
found getting employment an impossibility for some
time. Such were the straits he was reduced to that his
wife had to take on scrubbing and anything else in the
same line that offered.
• » * *
One time noted Queensland turfite and breeder,
Mr. Andrew Gordon, is dead. Vespasian and Darebin,
Sydney Cup winner 19 years ago, were once Mr. Gordon’s.
Famous brood mares Stockdove (imp.), dam of The Aus-
tralian Peer, and First Lady (imp.), dam of Grand Flaneur,
were brought to Queensland by him, and he bred, among
other good ’uns, The Australian Peer and Prime Minister.
* • » *
“J.R.”: There is something queer about that
“military ride” from Brussels to Ostend. Either the
men couldn’t ride, or they were miserably mounted, or
the cable has got the places mixed up. The distance
between the two places is 75 miles by road, and the men
took over 15 hours to do it —under five miles an hour !
» * * *
Boulder City R.C. (W.A.), after four days
racing, paid off £2500 debt on new grandstand, gave
£3550 in stakes, and came out with a balance of nearly
£2OOO to credit. Over £33,000 passed through the tote,
and yet nearly £3OO was collected in fees from the
bookies.
» • * *
Fonto, the horse that ran second for three Cups
—Kalgoorlie, Boulder, and Goolgardie—at recent gold-
fields round, was also second in the City llcp. at Boulder
and Kanowna. He is a six-year-old son by Tremando,
and at Geraldton the sons of his then owner used to trot
him out of a dirty, muddy stable, and pit him against any
hack that happened along for £1 wagers, running him up
and down the metalled street.
* * » *
Sandow’s length is 69J inches. The inevitable
compositor set up a 3 for a 9 in last week’s Bulletin
interview with the Muscle Maker, and several hundred
correspondents have pointed a scornful pen at the obvious
misprint. Snorters at a distance will please accept the
intimation that Sandow is half a foot taller than sft. 3£in.
* * * *
The M.L. amateur athletes, G. W. Smith and
Simpson, just returned from England, were told by the
easy-going Bull runners that the “ colonials ” and the
Americans took their racing altogether too seriously. The
Maorilanders were asked to tour the States, but couldn’t
do so. American pedestrian Orton proposes to organise a
lilywhite team to tour Australasia next year.
* * • *
’Murkan heavyweight bruiser Jim Scanlan had
a narrow squeak with half-bred Maori Ruenalf at New-
castle t’other night. Ruenalf never did anything to
warrant the impression that he had a hope against the
man who, without much apparent effort, squelched negro
Ike Stewart decisively, but form was knocked endways,
for Ruenalf made at least an even thing of it and fought
cleverly enough to score often. In the fourth round
things fairly buzzed, and Ruenalf seemed to have the
fight, but Scanlan pulled himself together very well.
They were often locked, and each evidently beside him-
self, punched in holds. Referee Ford cautioned that if
same thing occurred again he would disqualify the
offender. Ere the fifth was well under way, Ruenalf
thumped a hard one home while holding and Scanlan got
the money. Decision maddened the Maori, who went for
his man, and a rough-up, lasting several seconds, occurred
till friends sundered them. Another match ’tween same
two would draw a big house, and, perhaps, result
differently. , , »
Attenuated houses at both Sydney boxing clubs
for weeks past herald, it is to be hoped, the passing of
the unclean scrapping novice, whose smellful pre-
sence has been tolerated too long. Crowds have
thinned out to almost nothing lately, till the
wonder is how promoters give the money advertised
and pay exes. Competitors, too, are falling off in num-
bers, until it is so hard to get them that rival halls run
competitions on different nights in the week, with such
elastic weight limits as will allow the same lot to figure at
each place—a stone or so is a mere trifle. Which reminds
that the accepted definition of a novice should prove a
curiosity, for the same old names and faces of years ago
are still" being trotted out. This form of pugilistic inflic-
tion threatens to completely throttle the more legitimate
game. ,
Ancient bruiser, Bill Jennings, from way back
in the early nineties, faced Australian artilleryman, Jack
Thompson, at Sydney Gaiety A. 0., Monday night, and
opened the eyes of the crowd by the condition he had
worked himself into. All that aggressive abdominal
development he was wont to hump round for years, had
disappeared, and Jennings looked something like the
scrapper he used to be. But the stiffness of action and
lack of force begotten of increasing age showed painfully
in contrast to Thompson’s unusual vigor, power, and
mobility. Still, Jennings showed a great fight, and,
though a gory spectacle early, he kept going, en-
during heavy punishment in the hope of finding Thomp-
son’s weak spot. Once or twice it seemed as if Jennings
had a chance, and in the fourth round Thompson got one
in the wind that made him look round as if inclined to
wilt, but he came again, and served out thump cruelly.
Thompson drove home heavy rib-benders that told every
time, and occasionally the left pounded the other side.
It was marvellous how the old battler stood it, but he did
until his seconds, moved by pity, elevated the rag in
token of defeat. Jennings’ grit was as pronounced as
when he fought that never-to-be-forgotten butchering
match with Herb M‘Kell (since dead) in Melbourne years
ago : but grit doesn’t always win.
» * * *
Forty thousand turned up and yielded a £9OO
gate for final match of Victorian foothall premiership,
last Saturday. Gollingwood and Essendon furnished a
good game for first half, thereafter the “ Woods ” went
away and got the pennant by 60 points to 27. That £9OO
gate was responsible for a slanderous report. The cranky
rules of the League provide for two rounds of matches
between the eight competing clubs. Then the eight play
off to a final, and the winner of this may be challenged
by the highest scorer in the two earlier rounds. Colling-
wood was this challenger, but, having got into the semi-
final, it is accused of having deliberately gone down to
Fitzroy with a view to the extra match and the lovely
“ gate ” aforesaid. Several Gollingwood hotels sold out
that night, and things were very merry down that way ;
but writer has his doubts about the popularity of football
next year. (He lost a sov. over the game, and is naturally
pessimistic.) *
N.S.W. tennis championships ended Saturday.
Holder of singles and joint holder of doubles, Dr. Kearney,
was.a lot short of “ trim,” but still-showed boldly against
apparently invincible Englishman, Dr. Eaves, who
repeated his performance of 11 years ago when he wrested
the singles from Webb. Rice and Gaden won doubles
supremacy, playing finely throughout. Miss Payten
again asserted her right to the title of lady champion by
finishing successfully in all three available premierships—
Miss M. Dransfield being associated with her in the
doubles, and Mr. Rice in the challenge pairs. Best match
of the week was ’tween Dr. Eaves and Brookes (N.S.W.).
Former forced wonderfully, every stroke was intended to
win right out, but Brooke’s defence wanted a lot of
getting over. So clever is Eaves that, while in the centre
of the court himself all the time, he had his opponent
running to the verge of exhaustion.
» » * *
At Bolton (Eng.), Thursday last week, Aus-
tralian sprint swimmer, Fred. Lane, wiped out prior best
(1.37 3-5) for 150 yards by lsec. Previous figures were
created by Englishman Derbyshire in July, ’Ol, when he
cut 4-ssec. off the then existing best, which also belonged
to him, and was accomplished the year before.
* * * *
Published statement that Yankee bikist, F.
M’Farland (6.4), is the tallest at the game in the world is
wrong. Sydney amateur D. Ellis (6.5) owns that distinc-
tion.
Cyclists in N.S.W. should welcome Pearson’s
“ Cyclists and Travellers’ District Road Map ” —and not
alone they, but all tourists. The book gives maps, on
linen, of the whole State and of the various tourist
districts with the length and character of the various
roads clearly marked. There is, further, a letter-press
description of 18 tours, designed chiefly for the cyclist,
but also available to the horseman and the tramp. The
book is published by John Sands, Sydney.
• • • •
A Melbourne case, heard in camera a while ago,
threw a lot of cerulean light (for the lawyers) on the
darkly-suspected subject of bicycle riding-schools and the
instruction that ladies gain thereat. The darlings do get
instructed, to be sure.
_
Trenwith’s jibe, characterising the bogus
Reform League as the League of the three B’s,
just meets the case. Share-brokers, pawn-
brokers and stone-brokers.
Bill Lyne told the Sydney woman-
suffragists “ Queen Victoria was a woman, and
she sat on the British Crown for 60 years ! ” And
Crowns are this shape :—AAA !
Sachse, M.L.C. —of all people ! —has
announced the watchwords of the Irvine Govern-
ment party for the forthcoming Victorian
elections. “Honesty, Activity, and Firmness”
is the inscription on the back of the Irvine pro-
gramme, says Sachse. Doubtless Shiels will
represent the Firmness, and fat T. Bent the
Activity, and they will divide the Honesty among
them.
Theodore Fink, the great somersault artist
of Victorian politics, voted for Irvine in the recent
crisis. You never know which side Theodore will
land. It is reckoned that he has belonged to both
parties three times in the last two years.
Ever since the downfall of the Patterson
Govt., which, it was asserted, was largely con-
tributed to by an aggrieved civil service, the
organised service vote has been feared in Mel-
bourne politics. Hence the desperate efforts of
the Age and Argus to destroy the cohesion of the
public servants by proclaiming that they have
joined in an “unnatural and unholy” alliance
with the Labor party against the lovely Bent.
The Age-Argus alliance is also unnatural and
unholy—but that is a different story.
J. S. White, who misrepresented Albert
Park in the Vic. Parliament, recanted on his
knees, and with tears and abject supplication, the
vote he gave against the Irvine Government. “ He
thought civil servants should be paid what they
were worth. Personally he thought his vote
against the Government was right but under the
circumstances he felt that, in the best interests of
the State, he should accord Irvine his undeviating
support.” These touching “ circumstances ” were
that he thereby became the nominee of the
Government and the sham Reform League. And
the “strong, reforming Government” takes the
support of shifty dodgers like this, who openly
abjure their alleged principles for place and pay.
It is cabled that the British Tory Govern-
ment proposes to screw an indemnity of a hundred
million pounds out of the Transvaal and the
Orange Free State. In proportion to population
(including niggers), that is eight times the in-
demnity Germany exacted from France, and that
was the biggest indemnity in history till now. In
proportion to the white population, it is about 30
times the French indemnity. It is about times
the record of Spain’s exactions from Cuba ; and it
will leave the two late Republics with a debt that,
in proportion to population, will beat the world’s
record, and in proportion to the white population
will beat the world’s record about six times over.
This stupendous indemnity wasn’t mentioned,
apparently, among the terms of surrender.
Victorian political history contains few
things so mendacious as Knight Gillott’s shame-
less desertion of his party. Gillott, as Mayor of
Melbourne, was elected to Parliament to support
the Turner-Peacock party. He was Attorney-
General in the Turner-Peacock Ministry, and
went into Opposition with Peacock when Irvine
and his Tory crowd lied their way on to the
Treasury benches. He voted against the Irvine
Government on the motion that brought about
the dissolution, and afterwards attended a caucus
meeting of his party to arrange for the campaign.
Then the next thing heard from this honorable
knight was that he had signed the Reform
League’s ticket, and had promised to desert his
party and sit behind Irvine. Although not
excusable, it is understandable when impecunious
political hangers-on desert their party in order to
cling to the £3OO a year; but Gillott is a wealthy
man, and there is no need for him to sell his party
and principles for bread.
A Pathetic Partins'.
A writer recently described the light-hearted
manner in which modern people say good-bye at
wharf or station. He tells how folks set out on a
long pilgrimage with the possibility of never
seeing their friends again, and they say farewell
as if it were quite a jolly affair after all. There
are still partings at which anguish keeps the
tongue silent and the cheek wet. But there are
partings which should be merry, partings which
we should celebrate like a wedding. It is a
pleasure to chronicle such partings, and con-
sequently we make public the parting of Mr.
Michael Dwyer, Fernmount, N.S.W., who said
a long good-bye to acute indigestion. He speaks
as follows—“For many years 1 have been a
victim to severe indigestion, dyspepsia, and loss
of energy. I tried many medicines. Some would
make we feel well for a day, and then I would be
as bad as ever. There was a constant mist before
my eyes, and like a ball of fire in my breast. I
gave up trying remedies, and made up my mind
to have nothing to do with them; but I was
induced to try one dose of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills, and I can inform you I was agreeably
surprised in finding that they other
medicines taken so often by me. I immediately
procured a bottle, and since taking them I can
speak from experience, and now recommend them
as a certain cure for indigestion. They do not
cause griping or pain, and seem to build up the
whole system, at the same time clearing it of all
bad substances. I am cured, and my sight clear
as of old.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a
perfect blood purifier, and a positive cure for
biliousness, indigestion, constipation, headaches,
sallow complexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles,
pimples, boils and blotches, and for female
ailments. Sold by chemists and storekeepers, Is
lid per bottle, or six bottles 6s 6d. Sole pro-
prietors, The W. H. Comstock Co., Limited.
(Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Packed in amber bottles and the full name blown
thereon.


ICE! ICE! ICE!
The hot, stifling Summer days are approaching*
Have a Refrigerator, and keep Ice. It is a solid comfort, and doesn’t cost much.
Our Ice is manufactured from Distilled Water. ABSOLUTELY PURE ; CLEAR and
as HARD AS CRYSTAL.
We despatch it freight paid to ANY RAILWAY STATION IN THE STATE, packed
in specially constructed cases. Waste during transit is very slight. Write for a quotation,
and full catalogue of our products.
Deliveries regular by special carts in Sydney and Suburbs.
THE N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., Ltd., SYDNEY.
WISDOM
is generally the result of experience and observation,
ambition is to shine on the Racing Path, choose
| Open all day Saturdays. |
When you notice that nearly all Cyclists, whose
MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLES
MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLES
you should have no difficulty in choosing your mount; and when, in addition to this, you find the
heaviest cyclists racing and record-breaking on light, 221 b. “ Masseys,” you should learn that
“Masseys ” must be Strong, as well as Speedy. BE WlSE—it is a sign of Wisdom to ride
MASSEY-HARRIS CYCLES.
THE CANADA CYCLE & HOTOR CO., Ltd.,
Branches in Every state. 357 GEORGE STREET (next David Jones’)
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
BUY A
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel . .
Hammerless Gun.
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept in stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company,
Head Office : 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
REMINGTON GUNS, *o 10s. to £l5
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free
McLEAN BROS. & RICC, ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
TheGANZ
Electric Apparatus
are built right.
Let us give you some
evidence of their
superiority.
Ganz Direct Current Air-Propellar. 'SOLE AGENTS 3
The flustral Qtis Engineering! JJo., [td., South f||elb.
The truth about the Bushveldt Carbineers
and certain Australian scapegoats. Read “Bush-
man and Buccaneer ” (embodying i.ll the bush and
other verses of “The Breaker,” Harry Morant,
with a memoir of his life), by Frank Renar. Price!
one shilling. Wholesale from Edwards, Dunlop
and Co. Retail all booksellers and Bulletin
office (post free Is. Id.)
The Bulletin Story Book (price 5s.
post-free from The Bulletin office) has. been
everywhere hailed as by far the best book of
Australian stories and sketches yet published.
All the best-known Australian writers, for the
last ten years, are represented; and, both for
interest and literary value, the selection is un-
surpassed in this country.*
Satisfactorily settled by the magistrates in
Co. Kildare, Ireland (of all places) that for a
soldier to kiss a girl at a window, with her consent,
is not “riotous and indecent behaviour.” The
only remarkable point is that the town clerk
thought it was. There were people passing, said
this Puritan survival, and he “thought it was in-
decent, happening in the public view.”
Some more Drayton Grange points :—
Col. Lyster to the Drayton Grange Commission : “ The
more he read Captain Shields’ evidence, the more con-
vinced he was that that officer was inexperienced.”
Well, Lyster had just before told the Commission that
his “ field-return,” as he called it, showed there were only
1918 men and 41 officers on the ship : “ If there had been
any more his officers would have reported it; they called
the roll.” That is to say, a sergeant of each company
called the roll of his company, and someone said “ Here !”
to each name. Then the sergeant reported “ all present ”
to the captain, who passed the report on. Which simply
proves Lyster to have added another to his innumerable
silly' statements. As to the number actually on board
the plague-ship, the chief steward said : “ They first pro-
vided for 143 tables, and increased that by nine. Such an ;
estimate would make a total of 2142.” If the “ex-
perienced " Colonel Lyster’s full total of 1918 men is taken
from that, it leaves 224 stowaways at least. But there i
were more than 14 men in some of the messes. One man ji
said there Were 10 extra in his mess, and another ;■
had three extra in iiis. At that rate, allowing j
only two extra on an average to each mess,
there would be 2448 men on board—27J per cent. |
more than the “ experienced ” Lyster knew of. I
“TT'OR the person who is not a millionaire, thereis ONLY
x ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is *' Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,” “*1
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. W. ELLIS.
SNAPSHOOTING
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
i
HITS THE MARK l
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett.;
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W.W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCK LAND,
t 317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
\ (Greener’s Representative).
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dri>es away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
SOAPS dubbed Shaving
are rarely
Shaving Soaps.
In a Class by Themselves
The World’s Standard Shaving Soaps
Williams’ Barber’s Bar
and
Williams’ Shaving Stick
“BARBER’S BAR”
While the natural Ally
Of the Deft Artist
And his Trusty Blade
Is also the Ideal Soap
For Home Use
Fits your Birthday Mug
Once tried, never changed
“Won’t Dry on the Face.”
Send a Penny Stamp and we will post you Williams’
Changing Face Puzzle. Can you explain it?
J. B. WILLIAMS CO., 232 Clarence-st., Sydney.
linn
fI.W
TftE NEW 6
VULCANISED
DUNLPP
TYRE
Every
Cyclist
should examine our new Tyre,
at the nearest Cycle Agents,
at the earliest opportunity.
Nothing like it has yet
been seen in Australia.
Our
Vulcanised Tyres will save
all users endless trouble and
expenses, as they will outlast
two sets of ordinary tyres.
IS
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. OF AUS., LTD.,
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne; and at
150 Clarence Street, Sydney. 117 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane. 54 Barrack Street, Perth.
128 Lichfield Street, Christchurch, N.Z.
The A.W.U. and the Arbitration Court.
Mb. Abthuh Rae writes
Your article on “Industrial Arbitration in Working”
(B. 13/9/’O2), as well as previous allusions to the case of
the Australian Workers’ Union in the Arbitration Court,
although couched in the kindliest terms, displays a want
of knowledge of some of the facts.
Permit me, therefore, to state them. The President
of the A.W.U. lodged a protest with the Registrar
of the Arbitration Court against the registration of
the Machine Shearers’ Union, when the registration
of that body was first announced in the daily
press. The A.W.U. general secretary, accompanied by
a solicitor, subsequently waited upon the Registrar to
ascertain how he purposed dealing with applications for
cancellation of registration, the Act being silent as to the
method and no rules of procedure having been framed for
the conduct of the Court. The Registrar replied that he
could only take action upon lodgment of an affidavit
setting forth reasons for the application. In answer to a
direct question from the Union solicitor, the Registrar
further stated that the Court would have full power to
consider all matters pertaining to the case whether raised
before him (the Registrar) or not.
An affidavit was then lodged with the Registrar in
which the M.S.U. was charged with being a bogus Union,
and several reasons detailed to back up that charge. In
addition the evident intention of the Act to permit only
one Union to exist for each industry was duly set forth.
The bogus character of the M.S.U. was further elabo-
rated when the case was subsequently argued before the
Registrar by both sides. As a result of that argument
the Registrar recommended the court to cancel the M.S. U.
certificate of registration on the ground that the Act
never contemplated the existence of two unions in the
one industry occupying the same field. The Registrar,
deeming this reason all-sufficient, delivered no opinion
upon the question of the bona tides of the defendant
union.
The conduct of the Judge, when the case reached the
Court, displayed but very little knowledge of the Act. He
first held that the Court had no authority to deal with
any phase of the question other than the one on which
the Registrar had based his recommendation, contending
at the same time that Spence’s protest, which had not
raised the question of bona fides, was the basis of the
application, and not M‘Donell’s affidavit, which had de-
finitely raised that issue. He therefore refused to allow
discussion as to the genuineness or otherwise of the defen-
dant M.S.U., nor would he consent to an adjournment for
the purpose of amending the protest. This was mani-
festly bad law and worse equity, for the protest had
never been sworn to nor even witnessed, had never been
considered by the Registrar in the preliminary proceed-
ings, and for aught the Court knew might have been put
in by P. U. Abbott instead of A. W. U. Spence.
The Registrar only took action upon the sworn affidavit
of the A. W.U. secretary, which did impute mala fides to
the bogus union, and there was neither justice nor
technical legality in confining the case to narrower limits
than those contained in that document. That the mind
of the Judge was in a state of flux was clearly shown
when at the close of the plaintiff union’s opening state-
ment he announced he had changed his mind so far as to
allow any matter brought before the Registrar to be
argued before the Court, but that he must still confine
the issues to those raised in the original and informal
protest.
in the reply of the plaintiff Union we therefore
witnessed the extraordinary spectacle of a Judge calmly
listening to arguments proving that the defendant Union
was spending more on legal fees for one day than its total
income for a whole year, y'et refusing to make any use of
the evidence he admitted. The whole Act is built upon
the principle that there shall be perfect bona fides both
on the part of employers and employees. Yet when that
basic principle is impugned and the evidence in support
of the charge is st> strong, a Judge totally unhampered
by rules of procedure, and clothed with greater powers
than any other judge in the Commonwealth to deal with
all matters in equity and good conscience, refuses to move
except upon another application. And The Bulletin
applauds his resolve. What would a Higinbotham have
done in such a case ? If against the policy of the Act to
have two Unions, he would have wiped the mushroom
Union out of existence and told the other one that the
Court would refuse preference of employment to its
members until the objectionable rules were eliminated.
The members of the M.S.U. would have not only suffered
no injustice by such a decision but would have gained a
distinct advantage by sharing the advantages of unionism
without contributing to its up-keep.
The only possible losers by the cancellation of the
M.S.U. registration would have been the squatters who
are using that body as a buffer between law and justice.
Of course, The Bulletin was not aware of the
proceedings before the Registrar in Arbitration
until now informed by Mr. Rae. But the new facts
do not affect its conclusions. From Mr. Rae’s letter
it may be seen that there is a good deal of blame
to be attached to others than A.W.U. officials
for the contretemps in regard to the shearers’
trouble, but those officials don’t secure a verdict
of acquittal at all. Before the Registrar, the
A.W.U. should have (and probably any counsel
would have told them this) set forth definitely
the issues on which it claimed that
the M.S.U. should be refused registration,
and seeing that that Court was one of
primary jurisdiction only, should have pressed for
decision on all the issues raised, or a reference of
all the issues to the higher court. When the
matter came to the higher court the A.W.U.
seems (from Mr. Rae’s letter) to have been repre-
sented by two persons with different pleas—Mr.
Spence with one, Mr. M‘Donnell with a different
one. The very best of cases would be spoiled by
such conflicting advocacy. To say that Justice
Cohen’s law was bad is just a say-so. If it were
so, why not have appealed to the Full Court?
Justice Higinbotham must have done in the
ease just what Justice Cohen did —confined
the issue to the point raised by the plea of
the A.W.U. Finally, as already stated, the
A.W.U., anyhow, went into court doomed to
failure because of the nature of its rules; and,
construing the Arbitration Act in a spirit of
equity, it would, honestly, have been extremely
difficult for a court of justice to endorse it as the
sole labor union in the pastoral industry. It is
because The Bulletin knows the good work of
the A.W.U. in the past, and believes that it is the
best hope of the bush worker in the future, that it
has pointed out to the A.W.U. officials the mis-
takes they made. It will be of more value to
remedy these mistakes than to seek to defend
them.


ifmiU
i
m
m
m
m
m
'44.
42
\
$
/
Wo
V
I'l
m
//;'i
i«*(//i
I
if
4l!
,07 I
\y^
IjQii don't Cove * Cett&r
Oh TfCA 3do cj Coi4&- iZ(SO~ 4
one cf Oqd&rtf, 'QuMeu-Qoidl
We present Gratis and Postage Paid a AWQn+vg** SS^
GOLD CIGARETTES, to anyone sending us 100 of these pictures. we issue now tne m j
to - the Public. ~ A a Gallerv of extreme interest and of great educational value.
these Albu,n3 can be ° btai “ d
from any Tobacconist, or from us direct (Post Free) for Is. 6d. OGDEN’S. ' *»« tnr'i-'r't
LIMITED. SYDNEY,
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of Catarrh, Hay Fever,
Bronchitis, Influenza, Catarrhal
Deafness, etc.
Medlcator, with complete treat-
ment, only 101-, post free.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY
229,231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES: Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Onlv one address: 173 WILLIAM-
ST.’, cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
Cable trams will stop at door. All . work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hairwork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
Publications.
N€W SON<£^
V
&
7
V Author of
"After the Ball"
There It Comer Tme'Breah the News to Mother. "
Pnce^jn
Allan & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Mblboub.hk
Read the Words s
If You Please, Miss, Give Me Heaven.
“ Papa, I’m so sad and lonely,”
Sobbed a tearful little child ;
“ Since dear mamma’s gone to Heaven,
Papa, darling, you’ve not smiled.
I will speak to her and tell her
That we want her to come home;
Just you listen, and I’ll call her
Through the telephone :
Chorus—
“lf you please, Miss, give me Heaven—for my Mamma’s
You'can find her with the angels on the golden stair.
She’ll be glad it’s me who’s speaking—call her, won t you,
please, , „
For I want to surely tell her we’re so lonely here.
When the girl received this message,
Coming o’er the telephone,
How her heart thrilled in that moment,
And the wires seemed to moan ;
“ I will answer, just to please her:
«Yes, dear heart, I’ll soon come home.
“ Kiss me, Mamma, kiss your darling,
Through the telephone.”
Chorus —“ If you please, Miss,” etc.
+
€6
276-278 COLLINS-ST.,
PROP., Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
.ddress— L.D.l.j 300 Collins St., Melbourne
TOOTH-AGHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
.Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head aches k all Nerve
Fains removed by BUNTER’S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“Ab a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I have
used it successfully for years. 11 —Prof. W. Wilson, M.D.
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSOELL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, &c,
Of all Stores.
YEARS PROVEN EFFICACY.
to*'
-J-
-i -c/
C/>
©
rn
pn
V >
5*
Mn„m
3**l
'JiaJS £b ,n tfi> Un
finS ee '
a*-*- Chemists
TMSOUCHOUT ORE AT BRI TAIN 4 TNf COLONIES
V' ==-
CaTHARIICUM PILLS Pui.-ly'iywMi
[ " 5 ‘ COACULINE •
1 TfifINSPAREHT CfMEKT EOft Alt BROKEN ARTICLES^
CANT YOU BREATHE
freely? Have you to sit up in bed gasping for
breath ’ If so, you are only one of a countless
number whose lives are made a burden to them by
asthma.
If you wish to rest again at night, and breathe
with head erect by day, send ss. to NEWHAM
WATBRWORTH, Edward-st., Brisbane,
who will forward post free a sample bottle of a
New Remedy for Asthma, a few doses of which
will prove to you that life is still worth living,
I CURE
VARICOCELE,
PREVENT PARALYSIS,
And Restore the
NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Every man who has Varicocele recognises,
by evidences which are unmistakable, that
he is physically and mentally below par. It
is impossible that the self-generated toxins
formed in the sluggish blood currents of
neglected Varicocele, should be absorbed
into nerve matter without producing morbid
conditions that affect the entire organism.
Varicocele is unquestionably the cause
of thousands of business and social failures,
because it strikes at the very seat and centre
of physical and mental power—the nervous
system. .
My treatment not only cures the Vari-
cocele, but gives back strength of body
and brain. It gives to a man the reserve
power that is the prerequisite of all success.
1 seek cases where all else has failed.
Young, middle-aged, and old men can
recover the same degree of health,
strength, and energy experienced m
former years by consulting
PROFFSSOR READ,
who has restored thousands of sufferers to
vigorous health.
DO ANY OF THE FOLLOWING
SYMPTOMS OR CLASS OF SYMP-
TOMS MEET YOUR CONDITION:—
Do you feel nervous debilitated, fretful, timid,
and lack the power of will and action? Are you
subject to loss of memory, feel listles:s,
for business or pleasure, and subject to fits ot
melancholy? Are your ktdnecs, stomach, urinary
organs liver or b'ocd in a disordered condition?
Have vcu lost confidence in yourself and energy for
business pursuits ? Are you subje t to restle.s
nights, brok. n sleep, dreams, .palpitation of the
heart, confusion of ideas aversion to society. dim-
ness of s ight, pimp’es on the face and back, and other
dt iTyou B are*affticted, why further neglect
your health when by a single consultation
(which costs nothing) you can be placed on
the way to health, strength, and vigor
All correspondence held sacred. A speedy
and perfect life cure is guaranteed in all
cases I undertake, where doubt exists the
sufferer is frankly informed.
I CANNOT TELL YOU ALL
I desire in this announcement, therefore I
invite every man who is interested to write
me fully and freely, describing his case, and
I will advise him the best course to pursue.
My new book, which I send free
(six stamps to cover postage should be en-
closed), describes in detail my special
methods of curing the diseases to
which 1 limit my practice.
No promises made that age, integrity, ana
long experience do n6t justify.
Address; Prof. H» READ*
165 COLLIf-iS ST., MELBOURNE
Governor Denison, who inaugurated Re-
sponsible Government in N.S.W., had ideas about
making iron rails locally for the colony’s infant
railway system, but put the matter aside as being
too large a contract. On the other hand, he fore-
saw that to pay for imported rails to rail the
country as he wanted would necessitate slow going,
and Imperiously contemplated.building railways °f
hardwood. He was a competent engineer, and a
sight of the time was to see him with samples of
hardwoods at Government House, calculating
what pressure they would bear on inland railways.
The Sydney public executioner in 1H1S
had many orders to fill. On February 13 were
handed over to him no less than 15 poor devi s
who were described by the solitary print of the
davas “malefactors,” and he duly ‘ scragged
them in tradesmanlike style The 15 had aU been
condemned at the Criminal Court then sitting
(Barron Field, judge) for offences against pro-
perty-highway robbery (three cases), burglary
(three casPs), robbery in the house (two eases)
sheep-stealing (four cases), and
cases) And thus the scribe who, in style pon
derously grandiose, briefly reported the trials :
Before the passing of the awful sentence of the law His
TTonor in a long and pathetic admonition, called the
Attention of the unhappy men to their present deplorable
condi Hon which made a considerable impression upon
the Prisoners and drew from the numerous auditory those
looks of commiseration which man must ever f eel for man
when hopelessly entoiled in the last sad stages of hum
suffering!
Even in that remote period the Judge <widen y
liked to hear himself elooute. The sentence in
each case, as reported, was :
That he should suffer death on such day as llis Ex-
cellency the Governor should think proper to appoint, and
be afterwards given up to the surgeons to be dissected
and anatomised. _


Anaemia for Years
“ A Lev trying many things I per-
suaded her to take Scott’s
Emulsion ”
To see many of the hurrying thousands
In the streets of London you might almost
believe that modern conditions of life
left them no chance to look other than
pale and ill—they seem so anaemic. Yet
they need not:
“ 6, T .0 Parade, Bounces Road,
“ Ljwer Edmonton, London, England,
“ November 19th, 1900.
“ Dear Sirs, —Will you allow me to add
my testimony as to the efficacy of Scott’s
Emulsion ? I had lately an in-door patient
who had suffered from anaemia for years
and was altogether in a bad state of health.
After her confinement she seemed to really
get weaker day by day, instead of stronger.
After trying many remedies, I persuaded her
to take Scott’s Emulsion. She did so and
£ A
HU
Ss-7.il'
I
NURSE F. ROBERTSON.
(From a photograph.)
has rapidly gained strength, and has now
gone to her own home determined to con-
tinue taking Scott’s Emulsion, as she is
confident it has saved her life. I have also
given it to my sister’s baby of four months,
and with great benefit. We find the ohild
has increased in weight ten ounces in one
week.—l remain, yours respectfully,
“ (Signed) F. Robertson, L. 0.5.,
“ Certified Midwife.”
Anaemia maybe shortly described as “poor
blood.” It is obvious if you enrich poor
blood, provide it more and more with the
red corpuscles that stand for life, you will
do away with “poor blood” and in its
place provide the body with that red, natural
blood which ensures full, generous health.
For thirty years there has been gathering
in all countries of the earth an immense
mass of testimony—from physicians and
nurses, from professional men and women,
from adult patients an-d children of all ages
—testimony directed to one point, namely,
that for quick enrichment of poor blood
there is nothing to equal Scott’s Emulsion.
Scott’s Emulsion is a scientifically blended
remedy cod-liver oil with hypophos-
phites of lime and soda. The first it is
which so promptly enriches the blood—the
second and third are bone and tissue build-
ers. Together the three combined, as they
are combined only in Scott's Emulsion, form
the standard remedy for all impoverishing
diseases. To take Scott’s Emulsion is to
take draughts of life.
A distinguished physician who made com-
parative tests reports : “ Scott's Emulsion is
three times as- efficacious as the same amount
oj common cod-liver oil."
♦ The genuine Scott’s Emulsion has as a
trade mark a picture of a man carrying a
big fish—if this picture is absent you
cannot know what you are buying; if it is
on the wrapper you are protected.
You can obtain a sample of Scott’s Emulsion
by sending fourpence to Scott & Bowne, Ltd.
483 Kent street, Sydney, and mentioning this
paper. All chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
S€ND US
YOUR PHOTOGRAPH.
I p you send a Photograph of yourself (or friend) to
Mr. Mark Blow, Crown Studios, Sydney,
he will reproduce from it a very beautiful and
Artistically Finished
Permanent Enlargement
In Black and White, equalling a ' rich Steel Plate
Engraving, handsomely mounted on an Indian-tinted
Plate, sunk mount, and as good in every way as Enlarge-
ments now being supplied at from 30/- to 50/4Sbch, and
will carefully pack it and send it Carriage Paftl to any
address in Australia, Tasmania, or New Zealand for I©. 6.
Your Photo. Returned with Order.
POPULAR SONGS
By
Eminent
Composers
“If I were Loved by Thee ” .. Piccolomini
“ Breaking the Ice ” Pontet
“Parted but Unchanged” .. J. Sewell Southgate
“Song of Love and Death” Barnett
OF ALL MUSICSELLERS.
W. PAXTON & CO., London, Melbourne
ROBERTS’ HOTEL, you enjoy your lunch
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
Single Room, with Full Board, Bs. per
day, or JB2 2s. per week.
TERMS, The convenient
system of paying for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms ; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
■well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for. those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.30 —from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
KING
2h.p. to lOOh.p.
MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
~ — -V
r
Noiseless Underwater . . .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J. F.
Telephone 2671.
WITH THE KING ENGINE— ONE LEVER CONTROLS THE WHOLE.
MCDERMOTT & COMFA.KTY,
37 MARKET STREET, aVmVTIiV.
GOOD KA.IR. FOIE*. ALL!
All Chemists
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., 6s. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
m’ For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
MT For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
Washington 11. Sour, & Co.,
Pitt-streefc, Sydney
Hotelkeepers, Make Your Own
£ RATED WATERS.
THE “AUSTRAL” DERATED WATER MACHINE
* occupies only Four Feet square, will produce 160 dozen
BOTTLES per day of Finest Waters (Lemonade, Ginger
Ale, Sodawater, &c.) at a COST BELOW FOURPENCE
PER DOZEN. These machines are now working in all tha
Australian States, New Zealand, and South Africa.
May be Purohased on the Hire System.
Write for Prices and Particulars
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
ECKERSLEY AND SONS
214-216 Queen Street, Melbourne
S. FREEMAN > SONS Li£l™
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES;
BATHOS
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
head office : W YET YARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Absolutely Unique in Quality..
<W& (XPR.ESS
CIGARETTES
(Virginia Grade)
Wo- 888
.Mam
m
Wo. 999
Of IVUost High-Class Tobacconists and Stores.
If unobtainable'loeally, write to
M. RUTTY & Co., 68 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Manufacturers : ARDATH TOBACCO CO., 44 Worship Street, London, England. [s_n_ 2 3]
J US*!'
PtCBLISHED.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Moran
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
F&rice f/1
Post
Free.
By FRANK RENAR.
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney.
“P.X.” to “Waddy” on the Miners’
Accident Relief Fund (B., 6/9/’02): —
It may be unfair to collect for the fund as much from
the few-shillings-a-week youngster as from the full-paid
miner. But it’s only 4Jd. a week in either case, and to
have sacrificed the simplicity of the scheme would have
been dangerous and (in view of the smallness of the con-
tributions) not worth the risk. Also if the boy (he must
be at least 15 to be legally employed on a mine) were to
pay in less he could only expect to draw less ; and the
present allowances (12s. a week duringdisablement, and 8s.
a week pension, payable to a dependent mother or depen-
dent sisters as well as to a widow) are surely the irre-
ducible minimum. The Act is so remarkably good a one
that, if it has little weaknesses, they should only be
looked at with one eye, while the other one (and prefer-
ably the stronger) is glued tight on the unspeakable
benefits conferred.
Persons “in the know ” recognised from
the jump that the game of thelrvine-Shiels crowd
was to get a dissolution at the earliest possible
moment, and no previous Vic. Govt, has contrived
to get in so many inflammatory speeches as those
of Premier Irvine himself and Tom Bent on the
railway crisis, and of wily Treasurer Shiels at odd
intervals when submitting his various reduction
of screws Bills. When one of his own supporters
very late one night moved the adjournment, so as
to come up fresh to a speech the next day, the
usually cold and “polished” Irvine wrathfully
proclaimed that he would take it as a censure on
the Govt, if the House packed up its traps for the
night. And the moody Equity man wa3 beginning
to look quite worried because Parliament wouldn’t
give him a show to parade his spirit and go back
to his country constituents, who are naturally
[ delighted to find that their land is not to be taxed
and the public servants are, and, also, that the
Govt, has contrived to upset the Factories Act,
under an appearance of the utmost solicitude for
that unfortunate piece of legislation.
“ Burglar Bill’s ” letter:—
I was unlucky enough to be confined in a country gaol
during the last three weeks of a murderer’s life. From
the time the Executive confirmed the sentence the con-
demned man started to sing regularly at 9 p.m. and kept
it up until tired out. “ Thinking of Home and Mother,”
“Annie Rooney,” “Half-mast High” and so forth kept
ringing through the silent wing while the cell-occu-
pants lay and listened. Three nights before the man was
slaughtered the rope was tried, with a bafr of sand as a
“dummy,” and as the bolt of the drop was stiff (not
having been worked for years) “ Nosey Bob,” the hang-
man, had to use a sledge-hammer and much force. He
finished his “rehearsal ” at 12 midnight, the condemned
man being in his cell about 5ft. away from the drop. (He
had refused to move to another wing for the time, but
there were 87 other prisoners in the wing to be edified by
the preparations.) I myself “ lived ” only three cells from
the “condemned cell,” and the tramping to and fro past
my cell-door shook my nerves for many a week after.
The night before the execution the rope was dangling
from the beam on the second landing when the 87
unfortunates were marching in to their cells at “ lock-
up ” time. I occupied the nearest cell to the drop on the
middle-landing, and through a small crack where a plate
(closing the old “ feeding hole ”) had sprung, could just
see the ghastly thing.
I watched the priests go in at 7 a.m. (no prisoners let
out till after execution). Governor and Nosey Bob
inspected the drop at 7.30, numerous inquisitive warders
between 7.30 and 8.30, and then stillness, awful, horrible,
choking. Nine o’clock struck, and I Watched the pro-
cession to the door of the cell—saw the doomed wretch
led out, and pulled myself away from that crack by a
mighty effort just as the “ bolt ” was about to be drawn.
The “thug” of the fall, however, could be heard all
through the wing.
Note the “ mighty effort ” with which the shocked
Bill tore himself away from the spectacle.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N. S. Wales : Sayers,
Allport and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
A strange story comes down from Cape
York Peninsula re a party of police who, having
overtaken sundry blacks guilty of certain trifling
depredations, settled the score in the good old
way by exterminating the aborigines in one act.
There is serious trouble a-brew over the business*
and sensational disclosures may be shortly antici-
pated.
Fizzin' fur the D.'s.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Yer come outer stir,
Full up of it all,
Fur the chanst is too fur
Of yer makin a haul;
But yer waller in welf,
An’ live at yer ease,
When yer biz.
Is ter fizz —
Ter fizz fur the D.’s.
Yer shook on the scheme
Ter be hones’ an’ straight,
An’ yer ponder an’ dream
On a vision that’s great;
Fur they’s whips er shine women,
An’ liquor an’ spons,
When yer lurk
Is ter work
Fur the demons an’ Johns.
They’s heaps er good tips
Fur ter pick up at Pen,
An’, roundin’ the kips,
Yer kin pump ’em, an’ then
Yer off ter the demons
Ter sell what yer got,
When yer through
Wif a few
Ter squeal on an’ pot.
Yer kin pile it on strong
When yer know yer believed
(Your troubles on wrong
“ Information received ”).
Jes’ pot ’em whenever
Yer see they’s a show,
When yer game
Is ter name
The fellers yer know.
They’s twenty or more
As had done yer a turn.
Or has come up an’ swore—
But they’s money ter ear 1—
Yer worm out their secrets
An’ put ’em away,
When you pick
On the trick
As is likely ter pay,
Yer turned a new leaf
An’ yer hones’ an’ square,
No more yer a thief,
An’ yer treadin’ on air ;
Yer proud an’ .yer happy,
Yer mind is at ease
When yer biz
Is ter fizz,
Ter fizz fur the D’s.
C.N.


Piles and their Cure.—The pamphlet by
Albert SlArp, “Piles and How to Cure Them,”
without operation, by the latest Cannalin treat-
ment, sent free on application to 257 George-st.,
Sydney, or F. Buckhurst, Chemist, Melbourne,
or W. Wastell, Chemist, Adelaide.*
amusements.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
Magnificent Success of the MONTROSE COMPANY.
Mr. & Mrs. TOM NAWN & CO. WILTON BROS.
Re-appearance of Mr. TOD CALLAWAY.
Continued Success of MR. & MRS. SIDNEY DREW,
A G. SI’RY, WALKER & MAY, LES. WARTON,
THE BIOSCOPE.
Prices as Usual.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
RICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager —Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.m.
First Appearance of EUGEN SANDOW.
7 THE FLORENZS 7
FLORRIE GALLIMORE. ADA DELROY.
Professor MACCANN. RAY JONES.
MARK ANTHONY.
Prices—3s., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. Early Doors and Booked
Seats fid. Extra. Plan at Allan’s.
HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
.Lessee .. .. .. Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hend.v. Treas., Julius Grant.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, headed bv Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN.
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, LAST NIGHT of
A WOMAN OF PLEASURE.
SATURDAY, SEPT. 27, THE WORLD AGAINST HER.
For Five Nights Only. The Last Five Nights of
the Dramatic Season.
Prices—3s, 2s fid, 2s, Is fid and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Director, Mr. George Musgrove.
Manager .. .. Mr. T. P. Hudson.
LAST PERFORMANCES of
Mr. GEO. MUSGROVE’S NEW ENGLISH COMEDY CO.,
including Miss NELLIE STEWART, in
ivr TCTiI 3MC 353 3XT.
gay Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Wednesday Matinees.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Under the Direction of Mr. Frank Thornton.
THE THORNTON COMEDY SEASON,
COMMENCING, SATURDAY, SEPT. 27.
The First Production in Melbourne of the Sparkling
and Unique Comedy,
A LITTLE RAY OF SUNSHINE,
As played by Mr. W. S. Penley with Enormous Success
for over 12 months in London Theatres.
PRICES—Dress Circle and Orchestra Stalls, ss. ; Stalls,
3s. ; Amphitheatre, One Shilling. Box Plan at Allan’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
THE TOPIC OF THE DAY,
William Gillett’s Intensely Interesting Realisation of
Sir A. Conan Doyle’s famous creation,
SHERLOCK HOLMES.
Presented by Mr. J. O. Williamson’s Specially-Selected
Combination of English and American Artistes.
Prices as Usual. ' (>7, Box Plan at Allan’s.
IJOU THEATRE, "MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. William F. Hawtrey.
Business Manager .. Leonard Davis.
THE HAWTREY COMEDY 00. in the Highly Successful
Farcical Comedy,
TOM, DICK, AND HARRY.
Received Nightly with roars of uncontrollable laughter.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. Matinee every Wednesday.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’ and The Grand.
R. BENTLEY YOUNG, Representative.
HEATRE ROY A L, SYDNEY.
Lessee Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Under the Sole Direction of Mr. George Musgrove.
Manager .. .. Mr. T. P. Hudson.
LAST NIGHTS of
Mr. CEO. MUSGROVE’S NEW COMIC OPERA CO. in
A CHINESE HONEYMOON,
Produced on a scale of Magnificence Unsurpassed by any
other Management in the world.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Nicholson’s.
MATINEES EVERY WEDNESDAY 2 p.m.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Lessee Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee ~ .. Bland Holt.
SPLENDID SUCCESS of BLAND HOLT’S Australian
Melodrama,
RIPIN6 TO WIN,
Interpreted by the Favorite Dramatic Combination.
POPULAR PRICES—3s,, 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
ITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
C R
SOLE LESSEE
Manager
Mr. JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
Mr. Frank Weathersby.
Mrs.
COLDSTEIN
GOLDSTEIN
GOLDSTEIN
GOLDSTEIN
GOLDSTEIN
JOHN F.
SHERIDAN’S
NEW COMEDY
CREATION,
Surpassing his World-
Famous “ Widow O’Brien.’ 1
Mrs.
GOLDSTEIN
GOLDSTEIN
GOLDSTEIN
GOLDSTEIN
GOLDSTEIN
MRS. GOLDSTEIN,
BRIGHT, TUNEFUL, EXHILARATING.
PRETTY, STYLISH, RECHERCHE COSTUMES.
PRETTY, SHAPELY, LIVELY GIRLS.
Mr. CHARLES KENNINGHAM has a part which suits
him exactly. He has written two beautiful Songs for
“ Mrs. Goldstein ’’ which are sure to be popular.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY at 2.30.
PRICES--35.. 25.. Is. 6d., & Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessees .. .. Messrs. LEE and RIAL.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 7.45. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2
THE COMEDY SEASON.
Tl)€ Bell* of New York,
AS GREAT A SUCCESS AS EVER.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Nicholson and Co.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any deseription of
SADDLERY ? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and everv description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order,. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE,—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver far less
than we can. They eannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent, more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleve Sand-street, Redfern, SYDNEY.
OUIt SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
Delivered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO IOA
At Poverty Point.
««A man should marry,” says the Professor in “ Mice
and Men,” “it's a duty he owes to his offspring.
Mr Wm. Stanley, said to be the oldest pianist in the
Australias, died last week, aged 82 years. He was born
at Windsor, and came to Australia in 1837. He took part
in the opening of the old Victoria Theatre in Pitt-street, on
St. Patrick’s Day, 1838.
The yarn used to be current in Melbourne that Mrs.
Tallowfat brought her precious daughters to the Presby-
terian Ladies' College, and said to the head-master . t
“Oh, I hope you won’t turn them into Melbas!” To
which he replied “My dear madam, there is not the
slightest danger of that, I assure you.” All she wanted
was enough music for husband-snavelling.
“ N.” : Melba’s chums, of the Presbyterian Ladies’ Col-
lege, are effusive, and, indeed, such an astounding num-
ber turn up as to make one think of the multifarious
remnants of the true cross or the 16,000 survivors of the
charge of the 600. At a visit to the college, not very long
ago, on a festive occasion, I remember that, although
30 photos, of more or less distinguished former pupils
were on the walls, Melba’s face was not among them.
Further, the Principal made a speech, recounting the col-
lege triumphs, and never made even a distant allusion to
Melba. What a change !
Melba comes home like an antipodean Magda in many
respects. Papa Mitchell was just as averse to Miss Nellie
becoming a public singer as was the dull old middle-class
military German in Sudermann’s drama.. But Melba s
father has more sense, and has changed his mind so far
as to be one of Nellie’s most enthusiastic admirers.
Sudermann’s shocked old German had no sense—only
chest.
Sydney Tivoli programme, the other week, described
Miss Dorothy Vane as “ nee Mrs. Norman Menzies.”
The Melba boom in Nellie’s natal place results in the
selling of little brassbound miniatures of the greatest
soprano by street-hawkers, prices varying from 6d. to 2s.
6d., and the demand is big. The little street-bred people
have thrown aside racecards to sell Melba’s photo—which
in Australia is glory in excelsis.
Failure of Robert Newman, the London concert
manager, will, possibly, be of some inconvenience to one
or two Australian singers. Florence Schmidt and Amy
Oastles were among those under his wing.
Abbott’s Opera House, Auckland (M.L.), desires to
announce that it is now open to accept tenants. The
theatre seats 1671 persons when they all get there at
once. The stage is 40ft. deep and 67ft. wide, &c., &c.
Everything on the premises is lovely, and the cable
address is “ Matakana,” Auckland.
The Sunday-school crowd has been ingeniously worked
for Rickards’ Sandow show in the eastern States (in the
west, where there is no Sunday-school crowd, he shared
the limelight with the lovely undraped Lotty). At
Ballarat Her Majesty’s an agile, bright and harmless
song-and-dance turn was temporarily withdrawn so that
the men of prayer might see the man of muscle without
being shocked by the spectacle of a girl in tights. A
shocked Sunday-school is the best advertisement —only it
is the girl in tights who gets it.
Sandow told a Melbourne interviewer a yarn with some
warm blood in it : “I wrestled in Italy for many years as
an amateur. It was in Berlin that I encountered one of
the strongest and most unprincipled wrestlers that the
world ever saw. He possessed phenomenal finger
strength. On one occasion he was known to drive his
fingers through the wall of a man’s stomach, and almost
pluck out his intestines. You see these marks ? ” San-
dow bared his arm and disclosed two round white marks
as of old wounds that had healed, but left their brand
behind. “ I wrestled him,” said Sandow. The light of
battle shone in his eye. “ That’s where he gripped me,
drove his fingers into my arm, and tried to grasp my
sinews. I rushed him, squeezed him round the body,
broke three of his ribs, and nearly broke his back. I
bear my mark ; he has never been right since.”
The other week George Musgrove stated that an Anglo-
Australian Theatrical Trust would shortly come about.
Now it would appear that J.O.W. is likely to join
the Trust as permanent Australian representative.
The prospect of a new and all-powerful “ Firm,” having
its headquarters in London, is not an unmitigated joy.
Such a Firm, or Trust, could bring smashing resources to
bear against rivals and flourish on its immunity from
dangerous competition. We want competition. The
liveliest days of Australian show business were from Oct.
1886 to Dec. ’92, when Brough and Boucicault ran their
own theatres in Melbourne and Sydney. It was during
this time of competition that Musgrove seceded from the
old Firm and started management on his own. The Nellie
Stewart Opera co., with “Paul Jones,” “Boccaccio,” etc.,
Mrs. Bernard Beere’s co., and the third Gaiety co. were
notable results of Musgrove’s break away.
“ J.P." : The difference between Ouyler Hastings and
H. Plimmer in the character of Sherlock Holmes is mainly
the difference between an actor who knows the original
Gillette’s performance by heart and an actor who lacks
that advantage. Ouyler Hastings was Gillette’s under-
study, and when he came to rehearsal with the company
that had been playing up to Plimmer, he showed the
stage-manager some points. The drama, as Melbourne
sees it, is said to be much more catchy than it appeared
in Perth a few weeks ago. The new man gives to the
name-part an interestingly unnatural individuality,
which seems to explain his conduct. He plays an impos-
sible person in a peculiar way, whereas Plimmer betrayed
the unrealness of the character by playing it naturally.
His own method was not sufficiently odd, or sombre.
The late Scot Inglis might have given a striking ‘ ‘ crea-
tion ” from Gillette’s stage directions without seeing
Gillette at work. Nat Goodwin would probably shine as
a new variety of Sherlock Holmes. A fine part for any
clever actor with a clean-cut face and style, incisive
Speech, and the art of cold repose. Apostle Worthington
Btrikes one as an ideal Sherlock —wasted.
Alterations in names and addresses in the
city and suburbs, for insertion in “Sands’ Direc-
tory,” 1903, should be sent to the compiler not
later than the first week in October.
When King Richard of Maoriland was
leaving for the Coronation he was voted £l5OO to
keep up his paunch and dignity. It now
transpires that during his absence his draft for a
further £3OOO turned up in a casual, lordly way,
and was paid. Fifteen politicians of the Seddon
party tried to interview Acting-Premier Ward
about this off-hand method of dealing with the
public funds, but Ward declined to see them.
Whether the money was for the M.L. contingents,
or for Seddon’s new Windsor uniform and the
purchase of whisky with which to shout for the
Boer generals, appears to be a mystery. Probably
it was for the Contingents, but it was an illegal
spending all the same.
The Prince of Braganza’s successful de-
fence to an obscene charge came pretty rough
on the cult of royalty, anyhow. His Nibs,
who is a grandson of a one-time King of Portugal,
told tli6 London Criminal Court that he came to
London for the purpose of attending the Corona-
tion ; arrived at 7 in the morning, lunched,
napped, dined, went to the Empire Music Hall on
his own, with considerable champagne inside him,
and met a girl. At 11.30 p.m. he had to keep an
appointment with his brother at the Hotel Cecil,
where he took more champagne before returning
to the Empire to meet the girl again. She was to
have been waiting for him outside the theatre, but
she didn’t turn up. A bookmaker’s clerk and two
youths accosted the noble prince and offered to
conduct him to a bagnio. He followed them to a
house, gave the youths a sov. apiece for their
kindness to a stranger in a strange land, went into
a room and threw himself down on the bed, and fell
into a drunken slumber, from which he was
awakened by a policeman and the landlord.
That’s the prince’s story of how he started to play
his part as a distinguished visitor to the Corona-
tion. If many of the illustrious crowd enjoyed a
similarly intellectual time, and probably they did,
the atmosphere of the historic ceremony at West-
minster Abbey must have been spirituous. No
wonder the poor old Archbishop of Canterbury
gave way in the legs.
The public is informed that Mr. W. A.
Burton has no authority to act as a representative
of The Bulletin. .
Cabled that “200 Boer prisoners at St.
Helena are signing allegiance to Great Britain
daily.” Great Scot ! and haven’t we been told for
at least three years that the Boer can’t write ?
Senator Keating, lecturing at Melbourne
Trades Hall on “ Municipal Advancement,”
proudly quoted his beloved Launceston as an in-
stance of progress. And, for its size, Launceston
is not a bad instance of municipal socialism, and
goes to show that a small live community may
stay awake even in a State of sleep.
GEORGE RIGNOLD AS FALSTAFF.
Photo, by The Alba Studios, Sydney.
Despite the frothy mouthings of wildly
excited “loyalists’'-at the Pro-Boer oratory of
Barclay, member for Dunedin city (M.L.), a while
back, and the determination of Liberals and Labor
people to knock' him off his political perch, the
Dunedin Political Workers’ organisation has now
placed him on its ticket for next election. Public
ardor for the “ good cause ” in B’Africa has visibly
cooled in the interim, and Seddon is fast becoming
a lonesome and raging anomaly in this matter.
OPEN SESAME.— Hunyadi Janos Water is
the “open sesame” of the human organism.
Speedy; sure, and gentle, it fulfils every indication
in health and disease. It is a therapeutical
arsenal in itself. Indispensable to millions of
human beings all over the world.*
A good ad. was given to a member of the
demi-monde t’other day by a Ballarat pressman
who has the Sandow craze badly. The demi-
monde was using horrid “lang\|ridgo” amongst the
statues and fell into the arms of a policeman, and
the transit of Venus to the lock-up followed, to the
accompaniment of great eloquence on the part of
Venus, who objected to be transited. A pressman
gave way to the habit of the moment and so
pictorially described the “remarkably fine de-
velopment ” of the lady who was dragged away
that the court was crowded, and a huge bench of
Jaypees wept over her lovely form while inflicting
the usual fine. Since Sandow came, even the
person who applies for a billet in the ribbon
department states that he has three large ridges of
muscle on his lower chest.
The first politician to tell Maoriland Far-
mers’ Union to go to Sheol is Alfred Levavasour
Durell Eraser, member for Napier. Hitherto no
one ever suspected that shifty and unreliable, but
beauteous, young man of superfluous courage, but
he seems to have suddenly developed more back-
bone than even Lands Minister Duncan, who
condemns exposure of the farmers’ sweating
atrocities practised on their own children. The
Union has prepared a list of questions which it
will present to every candidate at the coming
general election, and the men who swallow most
of the Union’s platform are to receive the block
vote. Fraser received the list, and then jour-
neyed down to Hastings and met the farmers face
to face, and told them he had put their paper in
the dust-heap, that he had no intention of
answering the questions either verbally or in
writing, and if the farmers didn’t like it they
could strangle themselves.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
“ Galvo ” : Announced (B. 9/8/’O2) that
“ Edison declares that he has solved the automo-
bile problem with a new storage battery.” Pro-
bably Edison has not declared anything of the
sort, and, anyhow, present writer is very sick of
Edisonian declarations which are really ; only
made by American journals when copy is scarce.
According to them Edison “declared,” when
England and U.S. seemed likely to have trouble
over Venezuela, that he could sweep the seas of the
British “as clean as your hand ” with his electric
chain-shot and what-not. The plain fact of the
matter is that Edison is an extremely smart busi-
ness man with the gift of assimilating the ideas
of others, and with a thorough appreciation of the
value Of advertisement. He is not a scientist —
nor even an electrician —in the same sense that
are Kelvin, Silvanus Thompson, Rayleigh,
Crookes, Rontgen, Ferranti, and half a hundred
others that the public seldom hears of, and his
genius is mostly newspaper-created. Followingare
a few of the matters for which Edison is popu-
larly held responsible: Electricity (I was actually
once asked seriously if Edison hadn’t “ invented”
electricity !), phonograph, telephone, dynamo, in-
candescent lamp, electric trams, chewing-gum,
telegraphs, magnetism, gravitation, light, qine-
matograph, heat, linotype, motion, photography,
jam-tarts, perambulators, and liars, He is prinoi,
pally responsible for the liars,
Exit Rignold.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Oh, yes ! Williamson’s post prandial remark
about the five Juliets is correct, as far as it goes.
Only there were seven instead of five. It was at
Booth’s Theatre, New York, in ’75, where, by the
way, I first produced ‘ Henry Y.’ The manage-
merit proposed a mixed bill towards the end ot tne
season as a draw, and I was put down for the
balcony scene with Adelaide Neilson. lhen as
Fanny Davenport, Ada Dyas, and Sarah Jewet,
and others were available amongst the Juliets, and
Coglan and Harry Montague among the Romeos,
the idea was suggested
of performing the whole
play with different stars
for different scenes. The
male element objected,
however, to sectionise as
Romeo, so I took ’em all
on.”
“And your ideal
Juliet ?”
“ Neilson, of course.
Her age, beauty, tem-
perament, and art com-
bined to make her the
poet’s ideal of last, or
possibly any, century. I
originally played the part
with her at the Queen’s,
Long Acre, in ’72. God-
win, who afterwards
made a name with Irving,
designed my dress, which
the press said was a
revelation. I think I
was the first to play the
part as a lusty lover, and
not as a love-lorn loon.”
“No, I’ve no favorite
parts. Henry V. has, of
course, brought me the
best returns from the
box-office, which possibly
influences one, but. I
enjoy playing Bill
Burkly, Macari, or Mor-
timer Mumpleford just
as well. ‘Julius Cffisar ’
and ‘Midsummer Night’s
Dream ’ were the most
successful Australian
productions., after
‘ Henry V.,’ artistically
and financially.”
“ Do you mean to say
they brought in more
money than your big
melodrama productions?”
“Asa class, yes. Be-
cause I’ve never lost
money over a Shake-
spearian play, and I’ve
had some damnable melo-
dramatic failures.”
“ You still think there’s money in the ‘legit.,’
then ? ”
“ Undoubtedly—if a man will take the time
and trouble to do it adequately. The popular
managerial idea is—give the public what they
want. I can’t say I quite agree. Perhaps we’re
living a bit faster, but I can’t see the amazing
degeneracy in dramatic taste. The musical
comedy that is now running at three Sydney
theatres seems to me no better and no worse than
the stuff Baker and Farren did, when I first struck
Australia. London West End managers can, of
course, appeal to particular tastes, but you can’t
expect a community that is, as yet, making its
aesthetic blood and muscle, to go the whole hog
for the higher drama. Your Guy Boothby sells
100 per cent, better than George Meredith, but
the latter will live longer. This is a consolation
for the dramatist, if it is denied the artistic actor.
“Do I think I would have done better if I’d
hung my banner out 25 years in London or New
York instead of Sydney? Well, I might have
struck a tide that would have flowed to bigger
things, and I might have struck an ebb one, with
a backwash. Of course, if I had had more capital
I could have done more, but I’ve never had a
backer all my life. If you hit ’em really hard, and
get a following in London, you’re an institution,
and the enormous floating population visits you
just the same as the Tower and Madame
Tussaud. I produced ‘Henry V.’ under
Harris’ management, on Sept. 1, 1879,
at Drury Lane. I remember the date exactly
because Irving inaugurated his big production
of ‘The Merchant of Venice’ at the Lyceum on
the same night. The press asked me to give way,
but I couldn’t see it, as I was the new-comer.
Well —everyone seems to know Irving’s financial
position if they don’t know mine. He comes out
to Australia, I go to England. .
“The usual farewell benefit? Yes, the subject
was broached, but I’m well enough off. If it
had been possible I should have liked to have
asked friends and supporters to a farewell per-
formance. Some day, if ‘dead to the world,’l
may want one—then I suppose I won’t get one.
Vale / ” . ,
And George Rex took up his presentation bag
and walked.
A.D.
Sample of Australian journalism :—
This monstrous baboon beast has been jibbering and
jabbering at me for the last six or seven months. While
I lay in hospital at Brisbane, hanging between life and
death for several weeks, with a gaping hole in my head
as big as this bestial brute’s mouth, he hurled his putrid
paragraphs at me, and took a peculiar delight in digging
up and hurling at me as I lay prone and prostrate the
shattered fragments of my domestic hearth and broken
household gods—blasted hopes. Curse and confound this
scurvy, scabrous, scrofulous scoundrel!
What a chance for an Australian artist to paint
an allegorical picture of a baboon hurling the
domestic hearth at the gentleman quoted above.
“ Jungle ” writes :
The Vic. Govt., apparently, takes the bun for "kidding
a man on.” A good worker told me recently that, after
tramping 90 miles “ on spec,” he was engaged to work on
the Mildura line. He bought a new shovel (price 55.) and
provisions (price 10s.), but only got one day in ! The
only explanation he elicited was that “ others must have
a chance,” and that he “would probably be put on
again.” He left—and so did a lot more. The usual
batch of unemployed, it appears, had arrived from the
city on free passes.


TWO EMINENT TENORS PRAISE
THIS NEW AND WONDERFUL ELECTRO-MEDICAL SYSTEM.
When men are weak and practically disabled in life, they should avoid disaster which may end in Death. New Vigor, new Life, new
Strength, and unlimited Physical Power can be given by adopting for a short period the Electro-Medical Treatment or the judicious
uses of Electricity and Medicine. People are cured daily by this system who were otherwise classed as “INCURABLE.”
REMARKS.
WE have from time to time demonstrated, as leading physiologists and pathologists in the scientific world,
the fact that the permanent healing of grievous health-destroying diseases lies in the possession of a perfect know-
ledge of the causation and phenomena concerning them, and the accurate methods of treating them. -Any practi-
i . tioner can prescribe for a complaint and treat it with that professional care embodied in set formula. But every
litt] 0 V°T Cari T\,T°n• ° r ° Ure a d * sease ’ Honestly they endeavour, and unsuccessfully fail. Everywhere men and women try their doctors, receiving
e ene 1 . ulioris of people suffer from chronic nerve and vital functional disorders, and never become cured of them, because they do not appeal to
SPPPTAT tqT 68 ' i, . hafc the avera S e medical man CANNOT CURE WITH HIS SET FORMULAS and obsolete forms of treatment, the
, with Ins new ideas and modes of treatment, assisted by special knowledge, can. This is proven
BY THOUSANDS OF UNIMPEACHABLE TESTIMONIALS
received by THE SPECIALISTS of the FREEMAN and WALLACE INSTITUTE, in oases undertaken (and which they guarantee to cure) of nerve
and muscular disorders, stomach affections, etc. V J 6 ’
oimvni. le^l new methods of nerve and physical strength restoration, by the employment of Electro-Therapeutic agents, is a new system, qualified by
p, ar ijm cess. Patients OCCUPYING THE HIGHEST POSITIONS in the world of Art and Letters, Sport and Commerce, gladly testify to great
TTVqTPRTA 1 rSaAife lf j udiciousl J a PP lied by means of an ELECTRIC “ INYIGORATOR ” with reconstructive remedies, and such diseases as
TTTMRAPn PALPITATION, SCIATICA, EPILEPSY, BRAIN-FAG, EXHAUSTED VITAL FUNCTIONS, RHEUMATISM,
L-UMBAGO, ABDOMIiNAL WEAKNESS, PILES, ST. VITUS’DANCE, or CHRONIC or FUNCTIONAL NERVE DISORDERS, are surely
ana permanently cured. ' J
A DISTINGUISHED
PATRON.
MR. PHILIP NEWBURY, the
famous English robust tenor, so
intimately known and so popu-
larly appreciated by all Australian lovers
of exquisitely superb vocalisation, prior
to an extended visit to the leading musi-
cal centres of the OLD WORLD, in a
letter to the SPECIALISTS, says :
“A few weeks’ course of your
/' lectro-Medical Treatment, during
which, I wore one of your famous
IS erve - Restoring Electric ‘ IN-
V 1 UORA TOUS,’ has benefited me
greatly. For years I suffered from
Uric Acid in the Blood, with Rlieu-
m itic tendencies, but. thanks to
your Electric ‘ INVIGORATOR,'
I am now completely cured.
I ours faithfully,
=3?
Graceful as this eulogy is, it is none
the less sincere, expressed by one whose
attainments are generally beloved
throughout Australasia. It verifies the
fact that in the cure of nerve diseases,
electricity judiciously applied by a skilled
SPECIALIST is unequalled as an im-
mediate remedy.
■si
■
%
PHILIP NEWBURY, the Distinguished English Tenor.
| AN EXQUISITE
t EULOGY.
Ol IGNOR CARLO DANI, the sweet
Ljy Italian operatic tenor, the vocal star
of the ROYAL If A LIAM
OPERA COMPANY, recently suffered
from inertia of the nerve system, and
great lassitude. For a few weeks he
wore one of the Electric “ IN VIC OR-
ATORS ” manufactured for the SPECI-
ALISTS. In a graceful tribute written
to their skill he says :
(i I have much pleasure in in-
forming you that, owing to the (/rent
lassitude I have experienced here,
due, no doubt, to sudden climatic
changes, I have been induced to try
one of your Electric ‘ 1 nviy o ratorsf
from which I have obtained great
benefit to my nervous and muscular
systems.
Yours cordially,
-~z>
c —
&
Such a testimony from such an eminent
source proves the value and efficacy of
the only superior Electric “ Invigorator ”
sold in the States, the full particulars of
which are below appended. Be careful
when purchasing an Electric “BELT”
that you secure one certified by local
electricians.
order Arhin^R^“dE* 0 " Heart Trouble, Epilepsy, Hysteria, Weakness, Kidney Dis=
jj.l ’ h mg Back, Rheumatism, Uric Acid m Blood, Sciatica or Neuralgia, an Electric “ Invigorator,”
lth reconstructive remedies, will soon put you right. Electricity goes right to the Spot. Eor many weak-
nesses peculiar to women the “INVIGORATOR” is an infallible cure. 7
r-' “* the nerve& ■«*««—•*■»
NATURE INTENDED THEM TO BE. A man is no JoSer fLbfe unX thist wS the heart, and makes a man or woman healthy and strong, AS
conquer. It is the finest medium in the world to physical peace and domestic harmony. ’ * LOST STRENGTH, and finds no PHYSICAL TRIAL that he cannot
The Prices of these wonderful curative “INVIGORATORS ” are as follow:
T , . C , o^ P , er T lat ( ;’ £1 \ T S J ,Ver Piate ’ £1 10s » So,fd SHver , £3; Solid Cold, £lO (2oz. 18ot. Cold),
peciaiss o ei by others, and give private tests to anyone who cares to call. Two leading Sydney electricians
These “ INVIGORATORS ” are the nnlv Fleetr-iV t . leir currents are continuous as used for medical purposes.”
Electric “Belt ” can give a continuous m ustral } a w hlG h possess true non-conducting vulcanite insulation, without which no
ueit can give a continuous electric current useful for medical purposes. Any electrician will verify this fact.
The Specialists’ Fees : Advice & Medicine, ONE POUND only.
“CLINICAL EXPERIENCES”
CONTAINING 550 pages of medical literature, 150 full and half-page medical illustra-
tions, fully explains^inJhe chapter devoted to Electricity, the general laws governing
the application of electricity to the human frame. An exhaustive exposition of the systems
employed in the doctrine of Electro-Medication is given, showing the benefits to be derived
trom a judicious use of the Electric Bath, Battery, or Belt. The uses of these are
individually explained. This valuable medical work is posted free to any address on
receipt of ONE SHILLING IN STAMPS. 0n
FREEMAN i WALLACE
and SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director Electro-Medical Department. Medicinoc . _
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., L.M , packed Free from Observation and sent to all parts of Australia.
> ef. Letters treated with Professional Secrecy and promptly replied to.


Within the last few weeks four workmen
have been killed in Victoria by accidentally
touching Uncovered electric wires.
The luck of children again. At Timor
(Vic.), on Sept. 6, a youngster, aged 5, fell down
the unprotected shaft of the old Billygoat mine,
and 20 minutes later was recovered, quite unin-
jured, at a depth of 35ft., where he was found
clinging to a slab with his head just above water.
Same evening a railway employee, a steady man,
with a wife and eight children dependent on him,
tripped over a small mullock heap at Elaine
(Vic.), and, falling into a shaft only 6ft. deep,
broke his neck.
The Bulletin Reciter:
By Eighty (80) Bulletin Bards. With Illustrations by “Hop,” N- Lindsay
A. J. Fischer, F. Leist, D. H. Souter, and H. McCrae. In handsome clott
decorated. Price, 55.; postage, 4d.
Melb. City Council ia going to try to lay
local dust with crude oil:
Although it’s not the cheapest way
Of laying dust, it’s cheap, they say.
Obtain crude oil we know you can
By boiling down an alderman 1
Advertisement in London Daily Mail
EE THE DROUGHT IN AUSTRALIA.— Having dis-
covered what a drought action is, and how to
set up a counteraction, I am prepared to go to Aus-
tralia or anywhere else. None but responsible Parties
will be noticed. —Address, JOHN WM. DEAN, 22
Woodville-terrace, Darwen, Lane.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Core.
the famous remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soi’eness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally suffici
and a Complete Cure is certain.
Coughs " have been properly
T=tT!W AUUFi OF COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
has
sufficient,
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BEIX
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Bear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time gob
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a realty wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
** Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vio.
••Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
The Relative in England, who is 80 vears old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERED.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, l was quite well, and walked into
town and hack without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that, previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus —as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.’
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows:—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send' it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“ gij-.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Tears’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I atn more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breat.Ffihg was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other tleatment jiad failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse,,and at Lite
time I obtained your medicine. I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quitfe well. —Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.’'
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes : —“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’a
medicine for Asthma. After taking three hot lies of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he statesl
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, - Geelong, Victoria.
office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally .
The SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
1901, Limited. «/obks: OA.JPTO, (36 MILES FROM SYDNEY)
SMELTERS
AND
REFINERS
SILVER
LEAD
BULLION
v •
Assay Offices) General Offices, Store and Sulphuric Chamber,
Highest Price paid for GOLD, SILVER, LE 1 *> and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, and JEWELLERS’ SWEEP, &c.
For all information regarding Rates, apply to HEAD OFFICE, DAPTO.
e. R.u.dLd.er & Co., 40 Pitt Street, Sydney, General Agents.
MAKERS Of
S. Go. of Australia
AND
‘ ILL AW AURA”
BRANDS OF
SOFT LEAD.
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
W. L. HOYT, Manager.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record,
Food*
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record,
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
Infants, Invalids , and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive, and Ligestible.
Benger’3 food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
t> find. My wife sounds
the praise of * Benger’s
Food’ everywhere.”
“ If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


The passing of the Postal Rates Bill will
effectually squash the long and unnecessary
0.H.M.5.. wires sent by every tinpot official too
lazy to write letters; also certain State Ministers
who transact private mining business by “free”
wire will have to pay up.
“Jungle”: Came across a pair of new-
ohum sft. wood-jammers just outside a Wimmera
(Vic.) township. They were getting Is. 9d. a ton
(trees to be cut off at the ground), and averaged
two tons a day between them. That meant
10s. 6d. a week each, less breakages, and one was
paying 12s. for board at a pub, while the other, a
married man, was paying 9s. rent, and Bd. a lb.
for meat. Both were heavy smokers, but their
axes cost nothing. They were “ borrowed ” from
adjacent wood-heaps. It took those experts eight
weeks to discover that they weren’t making a
shilling a day !
“Burglar Bill” re the administration of
justice “inside”:—
The visiting “ beak ” is, in gaol, the fourth person of
the Trinity. Three whistles from the gate herald his ap-
proach. Prisoners (lined up outside the justice room five
paces apart) are faced the other way while the Great Man
and the gaol-governor walk into the court, because a
glimpse of his face beforehand might lessen the terror
which his countenance should strike into the heart
of the criminal. The prisoner, in the court, holds his hat
m his left hand, stands to “attention,” and waits. The
offence may have been merely the giving of a “ chew,” an
ounce of sugar or a pinch of tea to a fellow prisoner, but
the charge says “ trafficking.” Putting one’s own num-
ber on a blanket in the store-room which one might think
a shade better than one’s own is “ wilfully damaging pub-
lic P ro ,l lert y-” have known a man get seven days
‘ dark” for putting his initials on a whitewashed wall.)
A prisoner inadvertently omitting to salute an official is
charged with “insolence”; while a prisoner’s “delegate”
to the cook-house who considers an article unfit for food,
and has the courage to say so, is charged “ with making
a false statement with a view to creating a riot in gaol.” A
prisoner is put into “lockup cells” when the supposed
offence is committed, and waits there perhaps for four
or five days before the “ beak ” arrives.
HAVE YOU
AIADLEG
r,!"LZ 0Un ?? th a t D ‘ sc harge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
VfW finge , r on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion V If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted you
vou lt n rhnn« V t r ’ but u g 0 0D sufferi «K till death releases
your arc swollen, the joints beine
mot r hl C< i ; th ? sam P Wlth , ‘he ankles, round which the skin
jnay be discoloured, or there may be wounds • the disease
walk OW Y d ou t 0 m C a o v n ij nUe Z IU ‘he power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your ease is hoptless or
CUR^YOn''i' 1 / t( > “mputation ; but do not, for I CAN
OU. I don t say perhaps ; but I WILL Because
?en e d"ton V e e e f a oi e ‘ S “° 16880,1 ,or not now being cured,
ALBERT'S GRASSHOPPEK OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Loirs'
Hands" 11 Tumours 6 ’ T lt era,ed Jo ‘ ,lts - Carbuncles, Poisoned
lianas, tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists Stores’
AI BERT ’ * 7t° r v ‘ ri,ain > t/lid. per box. Prepared by
SS EvH'pA;'Ssei , X‘;. •Sg&Std
DRUNK
ENNESS
CURED
Absolutely Conquered In 20 Days.
my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free
W. LANGSTON, m.r.c.s.. Eng..
68 Russell St., Melbourne.
BUSHMAN WATCH
30 Days’ Trial.
i/t
7,
0,
ar-
'.V
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
AT ELI A NCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our EUEO-
TRIC ERA.” Our Elec,trie
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Eleetrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that cart be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing:, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Stbekt, SYDNEY.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
TOILET
SOAP
BEST FOR THE SKIN and
COMPLEXION.
Antiseptic, Emollient, Refreshing.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &c.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
“ EVERY MAN E
BUFFERING from DEBILITY and WEAKNESS should
w send for a valuable Pamphlet explaining how all
Nervous and Organic Derangements may be success-
fully treated withoutstomach medication. The method
is easy and pleasant, and will effect a perfect and per-
manent cure. Sent in a plain sealed envelope free of
charge. E. NORTON, 59 &60 Chancery Lane, London
EJJ Eno. Over 30 years’ continuous success. Eg
Free for Asking 1 .
%A#RITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
w * book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong' and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow' the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to Proprietor, Box 135, G.P.0., Adelaide, S.A.
LOVELY COLORS.
BRILLIANT
GLOSS.
REJECT
IMITATIONS.
PI WALLS
OXIDISED
NAMEL. i
■=~=Sl
i READY FOR U^E
ERFECT
1=
m
! S S!7:, , V ,
mm
wm
N
Sea that Aspinall’s name
and Medals are stamped
on every Tin.
MANUFACTURED BY
ASPINALL'S ENAMEL, Ltd, NEW CROSS,
LONDON, ENG.
- Dr - Clarkson’s Electric Belt,
Will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
Tki„ R ,it u e v y c l ondlt ! on , and give you new vim and confidence.
"as been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
other hnH nllkea r y ° £ the , old belts, and is warranted to be stronger
expense for° renewals orrepatrs! 6 “ 18 uaranteed for one year, without any
Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
°anHT lifet ° eV T' 0I ? an< l fyourbody - Ifc charges the Nerves with
Vigour gy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
nentTc WealHn o^ 6 Fa ‘ lin ? in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
narts thl comhineH? laC f and ,- K ‘ dnevs ’ who nofcioe a weak, general collapse of all vital
La hhm, ! treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-IN VIGORATOR
W 14 1 bung happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful
p . THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC. « organs 19 truly wonderful.
ELECTRIC EELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
V
or write—
owx.
CUT
RATE
DKXJQ STORE
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY,
SAVE YOUR
MONEY,
&
kUD WHERE TO
V
%
SAVE YOUR
'3IAIIJL
PROSPERITY
CAN’T LAST FOR EVER WITHOUT THE
PUBLIC’S CONFIDENCE AND APPRECIATION,
i j WTSH
EVIDENCE OF WHICH IS DAILY RE-
CEIVED IN THE FORM OF TESTI-
MONIALS AND GRATEFUL LETTERS
BY
Herr RASSMUSSEW
THE WORLD-FAMED DANISH
HERBALIST & BOTANIST,
PROPRIETOR OF THE
ALFALINE herbal re
REGISTERED.
A FEW WORDS TO THE UNINITIATED.
PERSONAL AND PERTINENT^— Those who have not met Herr Rassmussen, and
who have not given his Alfahne Herbal Remedies a trial, may find it beneficial to become
acquainted with the good work which he has done in the interest of suffering humanity for
the last twenty years. J
ALONG BACK IN THE BEGINNING OF THE EIGHTIES
Ilerr Rasmussen introduced his now world-famed Alfaline Herbal Remedies to the Australian public at 547 George
Street, Sydney. Australia was then flooded with American importations and proprietary remedies manufactured
by doubtful persons with assumed names and fictitious addresses, who took the people’s money without
responsibility, and very often without giving them fair value for same. peoples money without
HERR RASSMUSSEN BROUGHT ABOUT A REVOLUTION
by straightforward and fair dealings with the public, offering to stake his reputation and future if his remedies
verdict efficaCloUS as hc claialcd thenl to be > accepting all responsibility, and willing to abide by the people’s
THE HAPPY RESULT IS KNOWN TO EVERYONE.
.. ovr cr twenty years have passed away, hundreds of remedies have come and gone—many of them were forced on
the public in numerous designing ways-thousands of pounds spent on advertising same with the assistance of the
world a greatest experts in laying traps for the unwary; but the public would have none of them, and they have
disappeared as suddenly as a flash of lightning. '
‘‘THE ALFALINE REMEDIES EXCELL ALL OTHERS,”
and are well known to be more popular to-day than they have ever been. They have not only obtained, but
have retained the good will and confidence of the Australian public, and have become famous throughout the
civilized world. The first Sydney Office not only yet exists, but offices have been opened up for their sale at
MeHiournc, Brisbane, Adelaide, Wellington, N.Z and m West Australia at Perth, Fremantle, Kaigoorlie and
Boulder City, with Agencies throughout the world. b
LET THE PUBLIC JUDGE FROM THE FOLLOWING:—
o CmedieS A ha , ve hel , d theii- cwn for oyer twenty years in Australia, and Herr Rassmussen has
been awarded the Parisian Acadamies’ Gold Medal and Diploma of Honour ; Gold Medal, Sydney, and several Silver
Medals; honourably mentioned in almost every newspaper in Australia; received many thousands of unsolicited
testimonials—every one of the originals open for inspection at his Offices. The Alfaline Remedies have never been
known to fail to cure in a single instance.
ARE THEY NOT WORTH A TRIAL?
if they are, why not try them to-day ? why leave it till to-morrow and, perhaps, lose your chance and time ? No
order so small that it is not welcome; no order so large that it cannot be executed at once. If vou first' wish
evidence of the efficacy of the Alfaline Remedies, *
SEND FOR HIS FREE BOOK,
and read what the experienced have to say, and what the Australian newspapers have to say—the double distilled
extracts from the Press speak for themselves.
A FEW OF THE ALFALINE REMEDIES:
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS never fail to cure Nervous Diseases, Weak Spine
Troubled Brain, Fatigued Nerves, Despondency, Poor Memory, Debility, Want of Confidence’
restore Vital Strength, and preserve the system against being affected by age more than any
known remedy. Boxes, 6/- and 12/- ; course, 23/6 posted. J
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS area permanent cure for all Chronic, Blood and Skin
Diseases, no matter how caused, or of how long standing—Blotches, Blood Disorders, Gravel,
Diseases of the Urinary Organs, etc., etc. Boxes, 6/- and 12/- ; courses, 23/6 posted.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS completely cure Wasting Diseases in Women
—Anaemia, Whites, Poverty of Blood, Sallow Complexion, Dull Eyes, and act as a perfect
Blood and Nerve Tonic. Boxes, 6/- and 12/- ; courses, 23/6. r
. , : FAU * II " RH^Y i yf A T' ,C P f ,LLS Cl * re Rheumatism, Gout,Sciatica, Lumbago, Ravages
from Rheumatic Fever, Chalky Formation in the Joints. Boxes, 3/-, 6/-, and 12/-; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS remove all Stomach Troubles, Costive-
ness, Indigestion, Flatulence, Heartburn. Wind, Biliousness and Headache. Boxes, 1/-.
GENERAL ALFALINE REMEDIES.
Alfaline Pile Powders cure internal and external Piles, boxes 3/- and 61- • Varicocele
Powders, boxes 6/-; Blood Capsules or Globulus, 6/-; Fat Reducing Powders, which remove
Corpulency, 6/-; Hair Restorer, 6/-; Corn Cure, 1/-; Ointment, 1/-; Eucalyptus Oil and
Jujubes, boxes i/- ; Flesh-Producing Powders, 6/-; Complexion Beautifiers remove Pimples
and Freckles, 3/- and 6/-; Alfaline Embrocation removes all sorts of Muscular Pains Stiff
Joints -good for Footballers, bottles 1/6 posted ; Worm Tablets, 1/- ; Headache Tablets
Instant Cure, 1/- ; Soluble Quinine Pessaries, 5/- ; Electric Belts, Suspenders, Bandages’
Enemas, Glass Syringes, etc. Circulars with all particulars sent Free.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALITY.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has made special arrangements for attending
personally to his Clients living in the Country, and letters will receive
most careful personal attention. Advice or information sent free and
unobserved. « Patrons may rely on skilful, honest and confidential treatment.
His Remedies will be forwarded to sufferers, packed in plain cover and
unobserved, together with Advice and Directions. Letters should be addressed
to Herr Rassmussen’s full name-HAN S PETER RASSMUSSEN-and
Registered if containing Money, and may be sent to any of
Herr Rassmussen’s Addresses:
Head Office: 547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
ALSO AT
MELBOUENE —150 Bourke Street
BEISBANE—3O9 Queen Street
ADELAIDE —15 Pulteney Street
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington
W.A.—PERTH—4BI Hay Street
KALG-OORLlE—Hannan Street
BOULDER CITY— Street
PREMANTLE—II7 High Street
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION.
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of Alfaline Remedies.


presents that mill Please
fOU cannot possibly be disappointed by visit*
ing us, so come here whether you have
a definite idea of what you want or not.
We offer you the biggest variety and the most
reasonable prices it is possible to offer.
If you have not seen our new Catalogue,
ask us for one. If you live out of town
send us your name and address on a post-
card and you will get one by return mail.
No. F 4708.
Silver-plated
and Pearl
Bread Fork
11s 6d.
No. F 3462. —Fine Leather, and Silver
Mounted Pocket Book, 10s 6d.
m
F3939.—Gent.’s Silver Hair
Brush, 21s.
No. 374 A.—6 Silver-plated Tea Spoons
and Tongs, 10s 6d.
No. 363.—A1 Silver-plated Sugar Tongs,
3s 6d.
No. 253. —Solid Silver Match Box, 103 6d.
No. E 9356.
Silver
Glove
Buttoner,
Is 6d.
412 GEORGE j,T SYDury.
No. 20.— Gent. ’s Opal
Bing, 18ct. gold,
£4 10s.
No. £8031. Tasteful 9ct. Gold Bangle, £ll7s. 6d.
No. B4B9o.—Dia-
mond Ruby and
18ct. Gold Ring,
No. M.—l6ct. Gold and Opal Fly Brooch, £llsa.
K
IS
No. 120.—15 ct. Gold, Diamond and Ruby
Brooch, £2 7s 6d.
No. 121A.—15ct. Gold Anchor Brooch,
£ll2s 6d.
No. E6251.—9ct. Gold Bird and Heart
Brooch, 12s 6d.
15cfc. Gold Heavy Band Bracelet, £4 4s. Smaller, £3.
No. E 6659. —9ct. Gold Engraved Bracelet, £ll7s 6d.
i
No. 193. —Links, 9ct.
Gold, 15s 6d. 15c.
Gold, £llos. Silver,
4s 6d.
No. 197.—Links, 9ct. Gold,
£1 ss. 15cfc. Gold, £2 ss.
Silver, 6s 6d.
No. E7707.—9ct. Gold,
Pearl and Turquoise
Lace Brooch, £1 Is.
Pine Diamond Marquise
Ring, £4O.
m
m
No. 241.
Diamond - set
Scarf Pin,
£3 17s 6d.
No. 240.
15ct. Gold
and Pearl
Pin, £1 ss.
No. F 6128. —Silver-plated Toast
Rack, 12s 6d.
No. F 3562. —Silver Cabinet Photo.
Frame, 16s 6d.
No. E 6444. Engraved
A 1 Silver-plated Napkin
” Ring, 5s 6d.
No. EB499.—Purse and Card Case,
4 Silver Corners and Lock, £1 Is.
m
No. 359.—Silver-plated Breakfast
Cruet, 13s 6d.
No. E7o72.—Silver
and Ivory Rattle,
13s 6d.
Fine Opal and 15ct.
Gold Heart, £5 5s
Smaller, 755.
Silver-plated
Spectacle
Case, 14s 6d.
POWDER
Doctors Prescribe It.
“ Knock, Ennis, co. Clare, Ireland,
“ 10th May, 1902.
“Sirs. —Having recently got from you
a bottle of Kutnow’s Powder .... from
which I personally derived much benefit,
will you now kindly send me a larger
supply ... as I really feel unsatisfied
without it myself, and I have recom-
mended it to several lady patients, who
approve of it greatly. An aged clergy-
man to whom I recommended Kutnow’s
Powder tells me ‘He finds it both effec-
tive and agreeable.’—Yours faithfully,
“J. BOND SULLIVAN,
“ M.D., M.R.C.S. Eng., &c.”
“ Birmingham Medical College,
“Feb. 13, 1901.
Gentlemen, —I have tried Kutnow’s
Powder, and am pleased to say that the
results have been very satisfactory. I
have been a sufferer for the last two
years with chronic Lithemia [an excess of
uric acid in the blood], and have been
greatly improved since I began the use of
Kutnow’s Powder. I have prescribed it
freely and shall continue to do so.”
Note.—The explanation in brackets is ours
Sickness Eradicated by it.
■ ♦
We do not claim that it is a cure-all, from house-
maid’s knee to impecuniosity ! But we will define what
KUTNOW’S POWDER will do:
FIRSTLY. —It will clear and expel every atom of poisonous and
putrefying matter which constipation and other irregularities have
stored up in the bowels. It will accomplish this gently, painlessly, and
without griping.
SECONDLY. —It will prove highly beneficial in liver and kidney
troubles, entirely removing biliousness and bladder derangements.
THIRDLY —It will brace up the nerves, banish headache and
insomnia, prevent despondency, and invigorate the whole system.
BEWARE OF FRAUDULENT IMITATIONS.
KiltnOW’S Powder can be obtained in capsuled bottles
from all Chemists and Medicine Vendors. See that the Registered
Trade Mark, .“ Hirschensprung ” (or Deer Leap), and the autograph
facsimile signature, “S. KUTNOW and Co. (Ld.),” are on the label
and carton. ONLY SUCH ENSURE GENUINENESS. INSIST
ON “KUTNOV’S,” AND FIRMLY REFUSE ANY SUBSTI-
TUTES ; THEY ARE WORTHLESS AND OFTEN INJURIOUS.
Clergy Recommend It
“ The Rectory, Swinford, co. Mayo,
£< Ireland, Dec. 30, 1901.
“ Kutnow’s Powder is decidedly the
best remedy of the kind I ever tried for
stomach trouble. It acts like a charm.
I mean to stick to it.
“ D. P. KINGHAM,
“ Rector of Swinford.”
££ Belfield, Lawrie Park-road,
££ Sydenham, S.E.
££ Dear Sir—Thank you sincerely for
the bottle of Kutnow’s Powder which I
requested you to send me a short time
ago for the use of my wife, who had been
in the habit of taking all sorts of so-called
£ fruit salts,’ but which she has now
discarded in favor of your Powder as
she finds it far more beneficial, without,
at the same time, pi’oducing the excoriat-
ing effects which she used to experience
from them. I may add that her medical
attendant, a man of considerable practice
in Sydenham, highly approves of her use
of your powder.
££ J. DENNEY,
“(Clerk in Holy Orders).”
BRACES THE NERVES
Proprietors : S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 FARRINQDON RD., LONDON, E.G* Proprietors in U.S.A. : Kutnow Bros., 853 Broadway, New York.
, 2 —B


t
co^
!
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark ” on band inside, as above.
-ANOTHER
B
CURATIVE
Your indigestion means a starved body, a
dull brain, shattered nerves, an aching head,
tired limbs, torturing pains, restless nights, a
broken constitution, and premature old age unless
you root it out at once with Mother Seigel’s Cura-
tive Syrup. This great herbal remedy exerts a unique
curative and invigorating influence upon the organs o£
digestion, and has brought health and vigour to countless
thousands of half-dead dyspeptics. It did all this for Miss
C. Halton, and it can do - the same for you. She suffered
agonies for quite three years from indigestion and anaemia,
and found a perfect cure in Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup.
Writing from New St-., Brighton, Victoria, she says: “When I
first started taking Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup I was a
living skeleton, pallid as a ghost, and weak as an infant. Now I
have a hearty appetite, and can go through a day’s work with any
woman in Victoria.” Such testimony affords conclusive proof that
Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup
CURES INDIGESTION.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s (Ltd.)
CIRCULAR-POINTED PENS
Seven Prize Medals Awarded.
Neither scratch nor
spurt, the points
being rounded by a
new process.
Attention is also
drawn to their new
“CRADUATED
SERIES OF
PENS.”
W 0
H/i'l
Each pattern being made in jour degrees of flexibility and Points.
Ask your Storekeeper for an Assorted Sample Box of either series. Works : BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND
SfG2S
R
1
THE.
Coronation Spoon
A SpeciaLJfreasure to British
People in Far-off Lands.
Size
of Spoons
4 3 A&.6%
In Solid Silver or Gold. Price from 8/-» post free. Designed
and manufactured by Pearce and Sons, Silversmiths, Hud-
dersfield. England, by whom it is being sent to all parts of
the World.
olid
historic gift for 1902.
If you have an 1837 Souvenir of Queen
Victoria’s Coronation you know its
value, and will be anxious to secure
early the choicest Historic Souvenir
of KIN Li EDWARD YII. This
registered emblematic spoon is a
new departure in souvenirs: a rare combination of the
beautiful, valuable, historic, and useful. No marriage
presents will be complete without a set of these emblematic
spoons. A gift for every Child of the Empire born in
this Coronation Year. No Souvenir could be more highly
appreciated. Send for illustrations of Sizes and Prices.
The Historic Gift of <902.
.) - , Description— Theßustof the King, surmounted by His Crown
bcarlng the Rose, Thistle, and Shamrock-Great Bfitain and
B V P!Jort tile Royal Monogram, E.R. VII., 1902, and are up-
>hi iL’o,£o ls •°. ea Y es ’ each representing one of our Great Possessions;
”' utl " g fot ™ the Empire Stem. The Roots of this Empire
;iglß into\rHlrt e onhrPeoS’ the Emblem ° f Consfcitution ’
gl>ecial Attention and Care given to
Golonial and Foreign Orders.
SNTI Sgi22£&SS th ° s | Abroad will affect a real Savin* of Money. in
f r f m „M e sars. I>EARCK & Sons. . Send for their
Presents 1 nce lst of Silver Novelties and High-Class
PEARCE & SONS , Silversmiths, &c„
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
This Tangled World.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They lived at Drummoyne. He was in a city
bank; and she was his wife—the wife of
a few months. She had been brought up in
the bush, and was used to riding and out-door
exercise. Above all things she liked plenty of
room—room to romp. This she had not in the
rocky yard attached to their pretty cottage; and
she would sit through the day and mope. She
couldn’t cook decently herself, and they kept a
woman who managed that after a fashion. Had
she been anything of a housewife it would have
been well for her, as her time —a lot of it, at least
—would have been taken up by the household.
Tom had met her during a bicycling excursion,
and had liked her for her freshness and her milk-
and-roses complexion. She didn’t make up, as
she was young, and looked it. She had liked
him, perhaps because he was so big ; perhaps
Just now she was wondering why she married and
gave up the life she loved, and the brothers and
sisters, and the horses—especially the horses—
and everything. What wouldn’t s'lio give now for
a flutter on Dandy, or a trip to the spring with
o}d Nugget for a cask of water? She felt like a
caged bird, and pitied the canary. She couldn’t
even go to town without crossing the water. It
was water everywhere ; and she hated water and
boats. Somebody was always trying to catch a
boat, or something. It was all very sickening.
In the country nobody ever tried hard to catch
anything ; everything there seemed to wait.
What had marriage done for her, anyhow ? It
meant a man coming to see her every evening, and
leaving her in the mornings to pass long days
with a sour-visaged, unsympathetic cook as sole
companion. Tom rarely took her out, and
she began to wonder if he really loved her. He
had never—since mar.ry»ge—told her he did, and
she couldn’t be sure.
Like many country girls she was, in some
things, very simple. Mr. Brown —a friend of
Tom’s—who used to step in o’ days, “just to
cheer her up a bit,” had told her but, she
thought it was very mean of Mr. Brown. If Tom
only knew, what would he do? He’d surely kick
Mr. Brown. Yes, Brown was what Tom would
call a cad; but he hadn’t found him out. It
takes a woman to know a man’s friends.
Brown was a nightly visitor at the cottage. He
and Tom used to play chess, whilst she sat reading
and thinking—mostly thinking. Chess, to her,
seemed a silly game. She used to play euchre at
home, and liked it. Mr. Brown was very thought-
ful. He seemed to anticipate her slightest wish,
and was ever ready to oblige. Was the light too
strong ? Would she prefer being nearer the fire ?
It was always Mr. Brown who asked. Tom was
not thoughtful; and he was not polite—not very
polite, at least. He was only good—yes, he was
very good, and big.
One evening Tom was to be detained at the
bank. It was, he said, the half-yearly balance.
She said she would go to town; and, perhaps,
wait for him. She reached the city early, and
lunched with Mr. Brown, who was a man of
leisure, and always about. Nobody could help
meeting Mr. Brown. At lunch, he spoke of going
to Campbelltown, and she wished she could do the
trip. She dearly loved the country.
An idea came to Brown, and he worked on it.
Why, he asked himself, should she not do the
trip ? Why not ? Tom was a wooden man who
couldn’t appreciate the woman, whilst he had
never met one he liked better. The pity was he
hadn’t met her before, but that mustn’t make any
difference now. Tom might make a fuss about it
for a while, but he’d get over it all right. He was
not the sort of man to fret, and if he did make a
noise and he —Brown—found himself called upon
to figure as co-respondent, he had the money and
could pay the price. Anyhow, it was worth
chancing.
The evening train was leaving Redfern station.
There were many passengers and a great scramble.
A cab dashed up and a lady and gentleman
alighted and entered a first-class carriage. After
a while a tattered newsboy stepped up and sold a
penny newspaper. The gentleman handed him a
threepenny bit and waited for his change, which
the boy was a long time in finding. At last he
handed up a couple of coppers, which the gentle-
man pocketed.
The lady sat in a corner thinking. She was
thinking of that change. Would Tom have
watched and waited for it and have taken it? No!
She was sure he wouldn’t, as he was never mean—
anything but mean. And the boy was such a
delicate-looking little fellow, too. Then she de-
cided. Brown had buried his face in the paper,
and she quietly opened the door and slipped out
on to the platform, almost into a gentleman’s
arms. It was Tom. Next moment the engine
whistled, and the train moved off with Mr.
Brown.
She explained that she was seeing their friend
(Miss MTherson) off. Kitty, she said, had gone
to Picton. It was her first great lie to Tom ; and
he knew it, for he himself had been to Coino with
Kitty, and had just put her on a tram.
Three days later, at breakfast, Tom said,
“Why, Nell, I met Brown in town yesterday,
and he told me he went to Campbelltown tbe
night you saw Kitty off. ”
Nell bore up bravely, but it was a facer.
That evening, when Tom returned from town,
he found her far from well. The doctor called it
shock to the nerves, and prescribed perfect rest
with, later on, a change to the country. So she
went home for a month, and had a great time
among the stock.
Just now she is back with Tom, and they have
the Browns for neighbors. Brown married Kitty;
and Tom, as an old friend of the M'Phersons,
gave the bride away.
YARRUM.
Melbourne lampless bike-riders have been
having a bad time of late at the hands of the
police. A suburban householder, the other night,
heard sundry mysterious noises, and, upon inves-
tigating, discovered three burglars packing up
some valuables prior to flitting. He clambered
down a balcony-post, got his bike from the rear
and set out for the police-station. Hardly had he
turned the corner of the street, however, when a
policeman called upon him to stop. This the
bike-man did, and began hastily to explain, but
was met with a stony smile and the remark : “ It’s
no use yez thryin’ to come thot yarrn over me ; so
just come along wid me to the station an’ be
charged wid havin’ no loight on yer boike.” So a
partially-dressed householder was marched to the
station, where his emphatic assurances at length
induced the sergeant to send a couple of men back
with him to investigate. They reckon they have
found a clue, but the burglars nad taken practic-
ally everything else.
An Unfinished Tragedy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jack Bkoderibb drew his breath heavily, as a
man in physical pain might, and passed one hand
across his bewildered eyes; the other held a slip
of notepaper he had, a short while before, picked
up from the garden path, and which he had since
been regarding with mingled incredulity and
despair. His very eyeballs ached with the intensity
of his gaze as he stood vainly striving to read any
other than their legitimate meaning into the
words written there.
His wife a wanton ?
Impossible !!
Why, it was inconceivable. Yet—yet—there,
staring him in the face, was the unmistakable
proof in her own handwriting.
Were not the fanciful flourishes of those
capital letters and the affectation of the Greek
“e’s ” but too surely familiar to him ? So familiar,
indeed, that the cold horror of certainty,
which had been slowly coiling itself about his
heart as he read and re-read the little note he had
at first fancied must be addressed to himself,
crushed all hope and joy and kindliness for ever
out of it, and forced, at last, a groan of acknow-
ledgment from his dry lips.
He himself wrote a round, labored, schoolboy
sort of hand that, in laughing defiance of her
playful ridicule, he had often called “not a bad
sort of a fist.” For she prided herself on writing
in what she was pleased to term a very “genteel”
style, having been educated at a fashionable
boarding-school.
He remembered all these trivialities with curi-
ous accuracy, despite the stupor that seemed to be
clouding his brain.
Only a few months previously the schoolmaster
of the little country school close by had come to
live with them. Jack could recall his wife’s very
words, as she had suggested the arrangement.
“He is such a perfect gentleman ; and, though I
don’t know him, I know his folks well. And
there is really no place in the village for the poor
fellow to board at. Besides, it would be such
company for you, dear.”
The farmer had not wanted any other company
than his wife’s ; but she, with her usual gentle
insistence, had carried her point. “The house is
so quiet ” she had complained, with a soft little
sigh of pathetic significance. Whereat he, too,
had sighed, for it was a bitter disappointment to
him that no children’s voices were to be heard
about the old home.
He tried to remember all that had happened
since; but here his memory failed him, for the
feeling of stupor was beginning to overpower him
at last.
However, just then there came the sound of
approaching footsteps, and a moment later a
man’s figure appeared round the bend of the
garden that hid the house from view.
It was the schoolmaster !
His eyes were carefully scanning the ground, as
if in search of something ; so that he did not see
his host till he was quite close to him. Perceiving
him then, he started perceptibly, and a slight
flush rose to his face.
“ I—er—” he began, but paused as he became
vaguely conscious of an expression in the other’s
eyes that he had never seen there before. For, at
the sound of the voice, the fog lifted, as
if by magic, from Jack Broderibb’s brain. He
became almost fiendishly cool and incisive.
“Perhaps this is what you are looking for,” he
suggested, politely and dispassionately, in chill,
deliberate tones —tones so unlike his ordinary
hearty ones that they seemed to himself those of
a stranger. As ho spoke, he handed the open note
to its owner, who mechanically took it.
He then watched with a strangely impersonal
curiosity the dawning look of terror in the school-
master’s eyes.
“ So the fellow’s a coward into the bargain,” he
mused, half regretfully, as the other’s face, losing
its flush, turned swiftly white—then slowly green.
“Oh Lord ! how in the world am I to kick an
abject thing that looks as if it had already been
well kicked ? ” he asked himself in weary disgust.
His hand was on the traitor’s collar now.
“Pah ! —damn it, man, show a little more fight
—for God’s sake, do !” he said, contemptuously,
to the shaking object he was about to thrash.
* * * *
Later on, at the door of the house, he met the
woman, coming out in all unconsciousness, to look
for him ; her face wearing its usual expression of
madonna-like innocence.
“ Wherever have you been ? ” she asked, smil-
ing.
“I’ve been spoiling your ‘perfect gentleman’s ’
beauty for him, ” he replied, with grim pleasantry.
“He’s out there. You’d better go and help him
fix his nose on again.”
She gave a little shriek and leaned against the
doorway, but rallied almost at once to say : “llow
dare you speak to me like that ? Are you mad ? ”
“I wish he had shown as much spirit as you,”
he said, a little wistfully. “ There’s no fun in
punching feather-pillows.”
He passed on into the house ; and left her there,
shivering with apprehension.
On he walked—right into the little dining-room
at the back, vaguely wondering at his own
apathy; for his only sensations were those of
extreme weariness and slight nausea.
As he entered the room his glance fell on a half-
finished sock that his wife had been knitting for
him when he had kissed her last, just before he
went, out into the garden, and which she had
evidently laid down. Curiously enough, the sheer
domesticity of the incident brought back with a
shock a sense of their past happy relations. After
all, he thought, she could never really be any-
body’s but his ; and perhaps he had been careless
—over-confident. Well, it was a less >n. It
proved that they were right, after all, who said
that even the best of women needed watching.
He would go to her, and
And the end of it was that the schoolmaster
went out of their lives as completely as if he had
never stretched a “gentlemanly” hand to “shake
the pillars of domestic peace ” —as stable now, to
all appearance, as before this unconventionally-
aborted tragedy.
DOROTHY ELTON.
Ontbe Mt. Morgan (Q.) line the drought
is killing the trees by scores. The hills for long
distances are marked with yellow treetops. All
sizes and ages are being affected, and as many of
the trees must be a century or two old, it suggests
that the present drought takes the cake there-
abouts for severity.
Already the rabbit curse begins to dis-
appear in Victoria. The reports of the inspectors
to Lands Minister M ‘Kenzie lately stated that it
is “ now impossible for even experienced trappe: s
to make fair wages, owing to the scarcity of
rabbits.” The rabbit-trade is worth nearly
.£200,000 a year to Victoria.


DIPEASE of every character originates in an abnormal con I ‘^j°J’ The
cnfelepeedn/checked, the.whole ystemb? Seance of
existence of impure or bad blood in t J, tetter etc. In their more
boils, pimples, blotches sores, tumors abscesses, scrofula, and
advanced stages those complaints are known as > .• . V above are the effects,
cancerous affections. In order to eradicate the canes of vh fc he above . g
it is absolutely necessary that the blood 1^ b ® c l e h a f a nd under its agency not
the organ which controls the proper cnculation governed Bile Beans for Bilious-
only the blood itself, but other organs of the body are governed B fche agent by
ness act directly, and in an efficient manner, upon sv ’ s t e m Bile Beans have been
which pure and healthy blood is circulated tlj~«? b ‘ be Bte ™; as men-
proved to be the safest, speediest, and most effec y d f rora the common
tinned above, and they have cured the severest forms of '“f.j? he user 0 f them,
pimple to the worst scrofulous sore. I hey are pure y veg j’.j through the
while certain of benefit, need have no fear of any uStunately are
presence of any deleterious substances in their composition, which, untortunateiy,
only too frequently found in many so-called blood purmers.
It is thus by purifying the blood, and stimu-
lating the liver, stomach, and digestion organs
to proper action, BILE BEANS are an un-
doubted specific for Billiousness, Indiges-
tion, Dyspepsia, Constipation, Piles, Bad
Blood, Pimples, and all Skin Eruptions,
Bad Breath, Anaemia, Headache, Female
Weaknesses, Debility, Nervousness,
Spring and all Change of Seasons Ail-
ments, etc. BILE BEANS are obtainable
from all Chemists and Storekeepers, price
13|d. per box, or direct from the Australian
Depot, Bile Bean manufacturing Co., 39
Pitt Street, Sydney.
A FREE
SAfIPLE.
The Proprietors have so
much faith in the efficacy
of BILE BEANS that
they will forward a
Sample Free, if you cut
out this Coupon and send
it, with your name and
address and a penny
stamp (to cover return
postage) to the Bile Bean
Manufacturing Co., 39
Pitt-st., Sydney.
B
D
D
11l ll? ’US* tea
B JMiiiLa
BANS frf
■LIOHSNESS
■
■
ifgi
: MM
m
mm
Hi
•:k:. *,
■WBi
pi*
/■;
1 t*:*
WmM%.
as
-
m
■
m
mm
kfIMHI
m
Kill
mm
W&gm,
Wmßrnm
mzz
mm
W\
%mm
*
IiTLIVES THE
Life is Strife,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The measureless March of Ages (
Is marshalled by Force and Fate,
And in Nature’s blood-writ pages
Are threatenings, soon or late,
All beings that love and cherish
The dream of a peaceful life
Shall utterly, utterly perish—
For Creation’s law is strife !
For the blood of most that liveth,
From the strong to the weak and small,
Fate’s merciless slaughter giveth
For life’s food, to one and all;
And the voice of God hath spoken,
With no uncertain speech—
Where Nature’s laws are broken,
Doom comes to all and each.
On Slavery’s sons grown timid,
And Luxury’s sons grown weak,
Sooner or late fierce Nature
Will merciless justice wreak.
It may be a hundred thousand,
It may be a million years,
But she will not pause till her outraged laws
Drown wealcuess in blood and tears !
If Man’s age grew to a million !
What then is a million years ?
Or even a thousand million,
To the milliards of the spheres,
Which were misty flames, ere the seons
Of unknown ages begun ;
And Time grew strong, ere the paeans
Rolled forth for the first-born sun !
Though for a brief Millenium,
Perchance, thro’ its"thousand years,
Strife may seem to sleep—and mankind reap
Life’s joys without blood or tears
And man toiling upward, arriving
At his “ Golden Age ” at last—
See the gentle and loving surviving
The strife of the terrible past,
And believe the prophetic yearning
Of Hope, in the earlier time,
Has conquered all wrong—and as loving as tho’
He inherits his “Golden Prime ” !
That the strife of ages is conquered,
And with reverend, upward eyes
He thanks high Heaven his soul has striven
Till Earth is made Paradise !
And life, at its highest high water,
Seems one wide, calm, sunlit wave—
Yet its certain ebb shall bring slaughter,
For nothing the weak can save !
Yea, though Peace may reign for a little,
Fate can well that pause afford,
And her smile is dour—as she spends that
hour,
In whetting her awful sword !
And ah ! but the sorrowful wisdom
Experience shows us as truth,
Most goodness and meekness, is twin-born
with weakness,
Doomed by Nature and Fate without ruth.
For only the fiercest and strongest,
The longest may struggle and strive,
As Earth, drying to death, sees life’s slow-
ebbing breath,
And they —the last ones to survive !
And so let no man feel certain,
Peace shall conquer, “ God’s Law of Life,”
For the seeing soul, reads in Nature’s scroll,
That its law diurnal, and law Eternal,
Is merciless, merciless Strife !
A.F.W.
Explorations in Civilisation.
BEING THE LETTERS OF AN AUSTRALIAN IN
EXILE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Nov. 8. To-day I went to London. London—
what a rich, happy, ancient dress we in Australia
invest it with ! We have heard so much of it
that we expect a city of many marvels—full of St.
Paul’s Cathedrals and Westminster Abbeys, and
great singers and actors, and a House of Commons
where nothing under a political genius may enter,
and a new soil opposed to all known geology, and
a new sky and sun. (Better say nothing about
the English sun in these days. After two months’
residence in London I have seen it twice.)
I bought a paper on the Dover station, and
while so doing a porter forcibly possessed himself
of my bag, and carried it to the train. Arrived at
the train, I found I had no change except one
penny ; all my other money was in sovereigns.
I looked at the penny and at the porter—in
Australia a gift of a penny would be met with
insult —however, I wanted to see the heathen
porter rage, and I gave him the penny. He took
it, touched his hat, and said “Yes, sir—much
erbliged, sir; thank yer, sir,” and drew from a
great pocket, that seemed to take up all the space
of his coat lining, a family purse about half the
size of a brief-bag. In’fhis he carefully deposited
the penny, and snapped the spring back again
with the air of a man who could now defy Fortune.
The train got under way, and I opened the
London daily paper and read. You can’t always
discover the ways of a people by their journalism
—because, in most cases, a paper reflects the
opinions of the one man who runs the paper that
the peonle reads ; but you can infallibly discover
what some of the people are by reading their ad-
vertisements, and here are some of the ads. I
read —
T) EFINED Gentleman wishes accommodation as a
Paying Guest at Tooting.
The man who would call himself a “ refined
gentleman ” need not necessarily be identifiable,
but the self-styled “refined gentleman” who
doesn’t want mere “ board and lodging ” but
“accommodation as a paying guest,” and at a
place with a name like “ Tooting,” is as present
to the eye as if you had his photograph.
I can see that “refined gentleman” and his
spectacles, and the exclusiveness that comes from
the knowledge of his “refined gentlemanliness.”
Also I can imagine his indigestion and his belief in
the utter vulgarity of everybody except himself.
Poor devil!
The next ad. was :
V> EFINED Gentlemen are offered, as paying guests,
residence with a refined lady and gentleman
with a wide knowledge of-English literature and the
finest pronunciation.
Evidently there are more “refined gentlemen”
than the one who wanted to be a paying guest at
Tooting. The “finest pronunciation ” ought to be
handy in collecting the board money of a paying
guest whose luggage consists of bricks.
That reminds me of a girl I knew in Australia.
She was unduly aggressive with the “ Higher
Education for Girls” she had just commenced,
but was otherwise charming.
Speaking of a lady she had never seen, she
said : “I am sure I shall like her. She must be
so refined.”
“ What makes you say that ? ” I asked.
“ Why, she writes her name with a cedilla.”
Which is as good a reason as any other.
I begin to study the , country. There is no
more forest—the few clumps of trees have plainly
been planted by man. The little strips of grass
land —sometimes only an acre or two in extent, are ,
ditched and hedged very carefully. These little
strips are called “ fields. ” Oh! sense of propor-
tion ! where are you ? Only occasionally in the
tree plantations is there a patch that looks like
natural growth ; it seems formal and still —not a '
suggestion of the art that imitates nature, but a
trumpeting forth of the unnatural fact of nature
imitating art.
There is so much in a telling word. It has an
atmosphere—a picture—in it. When, in Aus-
tralia, I read of a “copse,” a “spinney,” a
‘field,” a “wold," a “stile,” a “wood,” a
“forest,” I thought these things would be like
their names. And I find that a “copse” and a
“spinney” are little belts of light timber with
undergrowth, that a “field” may be three acres
of grass land, hedged and ditched ; that a “stile”
is a series of rude steps for'the crossing of a fence,
made for people who are too weak or too drunk
to climb over. A “ wood ”is a plantation of a
dozen acres, and a “forest” is a big “wood.”
Next time the Englishman in Australia smiles
pityingly at a hundred miles of forest of eucalypti
—one of the most graceful, most beautiful trees
God ever made—and talks of English forests to
the disadvantage of Australian natural beauty—
smite him, my brothers; smite him bigly !
The train raced past a surprisingly green pine—
of no vegetable green I had ever seen before, but
exactly similar in tint to those bright green toy
pine trees you find in Noah’s Arks.
Past hideously new towns of terraces, and into
the country again. More Noah’s Ark pines,
small fields and formal hedges, and away on the
landlift to the sky-line windmills grinding wheat,
as in the days of the Saxons. I haven’t seen any
such back-number machines as windmills in a
Protectionist country, anyway. Freetrade
methods, like Freetrade itself, belong to the time
when men believed that the world was flat, or
some period prior to the discovery that iron ships
will float. Freetrade will be a fine policy at about
the time of the Millenium ; meanwhile the wind-
mills grind wheat, when wheat and wind happen
along simultaneously.
At Tonbridge, a fresh-colored young man
entered the compartment, and when we started
he apologetically asked for a match. I gave him
the match, and we talked many things.
He spoke wonderful English; so I was sur-
prised when he said: “I can’t weally believe
you’re an Austwalian. I met an Austwalian at a
place in Gwosvena Squa-ah and he was talkin’
just like an Austwalian, don’t you know—but
you have no more accent that I—aw—have.”
Which reminds me again. Old John Robert-
son, one time Premier of New South Wales, was
a fearful-and wonderful speaker whose voice was
rarely understood. One day he went to a bird-
fancier’s shop in George-street, Sydney, and said
to the keeper:
“ I fay, have you godder barrot ? ”
“ Yes,” said the man. “ Here he is.”
“ I fay, gan he torgue ? ”
“Can he talk—splendid—hear him !”
The parrot talked very warmly.
“ I fay—thatf not bad. How mudge ? ”
“ Ten pound.”
“Den'powgnd ! Thatf a shoggin’ high prife—
gan he torgue well ? ”
“ Well ?” said the fancier (who knew his man).
“ If he couldn’t talk better than you I’d wring his
neck.”
At any rate, I had discovered in that train
journey that I spoke good English because I had
no accent, and talked exactly like a man who Had
several.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Consolation.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Strange how powerfully some people influence
us—quickening the brain and stirring it into more
life ! Yes ! I feel like that with Cyril. When
he is near I’m impelled to try to be something
above the common ruck. Bob —sleepy old Bob !
I can’t imagine why I ever married him. I won-
der how 1 learned to love Cyril ? I shouldn’t, of
course. How did it begin ? Unless one makes a
catalogue of the impulses the moment they flash
across the brain the chance is lost. So this new
impulse was borne in me —me, a respectable
married woman ! How cold and prosaic the term
sounds! One always thinks of a “respectable
married woman ” as a creature of the middle-class
verging towards fifty.
But this new impulse is not the humdrum
affection of a married' female with calm conven-
tional habits, but one which devastates and con-
sumes. Will it last more than a season ? Would
it be better to hold to the lesser, or shall I go with
him to-night? Yes, I must go—l promised.
That man’s snore, coming to my ears whilst I
think, nearly maddens me. I’m quite ready—l
shall stand on the verandah and await the hour.
Fifteen minutes till the midnight express passes
Will it bear me outward with him to a glorious
new life ? But no ! there’s nothing to prove that
such passion will last; whilst cold respectability
will endure for life.
How the tiles of the station-house shine in the
moonlight, and the roofs of the unused cars gleam
wetly under its light. Oh ! what a glorious sky !
A blue ocean, flecked with clouds of foam. The
wind is rising, the white waves sweep forward
across the moon. Is that cold moon symbolic r f
my hope, and those clouds ray passions, which
swallow everything. They darken—they grow
blacker, hardly a beam of light is left. That
booming noise—it is the express. I’ll go—there
is time yet. But how hidden the moon is—l
can’t go—l daren’t. Oh God ! have pity ! . . .
I’ll stay here. He swore he’d love me always,
whether I went or not.
The express has whistled. Too late now; too
late. _
I must creep back to my room. How can I ?
That brute is snoring stilL But, perhaps, after
all, Cyril snores too ! I hope he does ; it would
make Bob so much easier to bear.
VIC.
ST. L.


A Stringof Complaints
Languor, Depression, General Undoing, Loss of Appetite, Weakness,
A String of Complaints Due to Hot Weather.
N
%
Mr. Gr. J. Plenty, of Bowden, South
Australia, sends us his photograph
and says:
“ I have a regular string of com-
plaints every summer. The excessive
heat prostrates me. I feel languid
and depressed and have a general un-
doing of my health. A great many
of my friends complain in the same
way. Lately I have found that Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla overcomes all these bad
effects and enables me to go through
the hot season without any trouble.
It revivifies my system, purifies my
blood, and gives me an unusual de-
gree of strength. lam sure no one
will be disappointed with this medi-
cine, for it is not only a preventive
but also a powerful cure of dis-
ease.”
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Keep your blood in good condition, keep your digestion strong, and keep
your nervous system vigorous. Then you will not suffer from the weakening
effects of hot weather. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla was made for just these purposes.
It cools the blood, tones up the digestive apparatus, puts force into the
nervous system. And it fortifies you against hot weather, cold weather, or
changeable weather. It gives strength to ward off disease.
Don’t be deceived by trying some other Sarsaparilla. Don’t experiment
with imitations. Hold fast to the tried and tested Sarsaparilla—Ayer’s.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
A Tonic for All Seasons of the Year
Ayer’s Pills are a purely vegetable laxative for the whole family.
27
YEARS’ SUCCESS
AS
the UNIVERSAL REMEDY fob
Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Hoarseness, &c.
HAS MADE
£ung Tonic
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY TO EVERYBODY.
Important Notice:
SUBSTITUTION. — There are so many imitations
Hlk of this successful, and therefore popular, remedy that
‘ c it is of the utmost importance you should use the
word “ OW BRIDGE ’ ’ when buying Lung Tonic,
and TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE. MBSKt
1 -
Prepared by
imk W. T. OWBRIDGE, M.P.S., Chemist, Hull.
LJtSik. Sold every where in bottles, at Is. lid. ''
2s. 9d., 4s. 6d., & 11s., by all
Colonial Medicine Vendors.
COPYRIGHT.
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East.
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
ECH
PILLS
I? OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Tremblinir Sensations. &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no Action. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
Cr O'INN A A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver, •
they act like magic—a few doses will "work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medicine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is lid, and 2s 9d each.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK; Price, 4s. 6(1
LIST OF CONTENTS. Postage 6d
At Yarrawonga
His Hair ...
Strawberry : A Love Story
The Patient’s Hand-8e11...
The Correspondence op a
Little Dressmaker
A Martyr of No Account...
Nick Vedder’s Gold
Products
An Error in Administration
A Bridal Party and a D6g
Broken China
The Dispersion op Mrs.
Black
White-When - He’s-Wanted
The Tramp
The Man who saw a Moa ...
From the Log op the Out-
ward Bound
On Our Selection
A Box op Dead Roses
A Stripe for Trooper Casey
Swamp-Swallowed
Bailifes I Have Met
Three Cups op Tea
Silhouettes : My Horse ...
Hanging and Hell
The School at Sergeant’s
The Burial Service of a
Musician
Selling Scripture Texts...
“ Colonial Experience”...
The Ferryman
Barmy Barker’s Boots ...
The Benefit of Clergy ...
F. S. Delmer
Mabel Holmes
J. J. Poynton
F.M.W.G.
Maud Light
C. H. Souter
A. Conway.
A. Rose-Soley
A. C. M l Cay
“ Omega ”
“ Hoiya”
“Robin Studholme”
A. B. Paterson
Barbara Baynton
“ Weka ”
J. H. Greene
Arthur H. Davis
Ethel Mills
Roderic Quinn
Alex. Montgomery
Victor J. Daley
F. Rollett
“A. Cliee”
Phil. Mowbray
‘ ‘ Ponte ”
“ McG.”
“Boiling Billy ”
J.P.
L. De Bakker
E. S. Sorenson
Alex. Allen
The Bulletin Reciter; Price 5s-
The How - We - Beat - the -
Favourite Affliction ...
Gig Fours
Don’t Let the Moth Get In
The Winner of the Squat-
ters’ Cup
The Three Roads
Christmas Belle
My Mate Bill
What the Bottle Said ...
A German Lament
The Anarchist
The Fall of Patrick
Dooley
The Jester of the Damned
The Hairy Man of Koora-
watha
A Big “ Bust ”
A Tight Corner ...
The Road to Wyoming
Jim Jamieson, of Tringabar
The Mallee Fire
Among the Palms
Dreams and Deeds
Boko ...
“ Dunno ! ”
The Fat Man and the War
The Shoe
The Cocky’s Handy Man ...
Bashful Gleeson
Skeeia
The Currency Lass
The Confidential Jockey
How We Won the Ribbon
A Twisted Idyl
The Tugs of Simpsonville
The Sick Cab-Rider'
Tambaroora
Father Riley’s Horse
O’Toole and M'Sharry ...
Faces in the Street
The Bush Missionary
The Last Bullet
The Honeymoon Train ...
The Murder-Night
A Scotch Night
M. M. O'Donnell
“ McG.”
T. A. Wilson
Frank Bellman
Victor J. Daley
“ John Carew”
G. H. Gibson
E. J. Brady
“ Sendee ”
Arthur 11. Adams
E. J. Dempsey
J. 11. Greene
“ Tom Freeman ”
Edward Dyson
C. H. Souter
Evelyn ThrelfaU
“ Pan ”
C. 11. Souter
“ Hesketh ”
E. J. Dempsey
“turlew ”
Bernard Espinasse
“ Magnet ”
J. M. L.
“ Ben Sun”
Edward Dyson
Barcroft Boake
Boderic Quinn
Francis Kenna
Will H. Ogilvie
Frank Morton
W. T. Goodge
Edmund Fisher
“ Bendee ”
A. B. Paterson
Thomas E. Spencer
Henry Lawson
W. T. Goodge
John Farrell
A. G. Stephens
Hugh M l Crae
Will H. Ogilvie
Sole Distributing Agents—
Edwards, Dunlop & Co,, Ltd., Sydney and Drisbane,
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFA&T—SUPPER.
DON’T MTSS THIS
OPPORTUNITY, if you are suffering with WEAKENING,
NERVOUS, and DEBILITATING Diseases. Our CON-
CENTRATED BOTANIC REMEDIES will CURE YOU.
So CONFIDENT are we of this that we will send to any
sufferer a TRIAL COURSE (Free of Charge) and abide
by the RESULT. Send NOW and your ultimate CURE
is CERTAIN. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.


Asbestos Boiler Covering
. . . Saves 25 Per Cent, in Fuel ...
PACKED WET, Ready for Use, in 3cwt. Casks, 7/-, 8/-, 9/- cwt.
PACKED DRY, in Bags, each lewt., 12/-, 14/-, 16/- cwt.
Estimates given for Covering Boilers and
Steam Pipes.
OTJB. ASBESTOS BOILER COVER
Saves 25 per cent, in Fuel.
PERDRIAU and COMPANY,
Telephones— 418, 467.
268-270 George Street, Sydney
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
- Q. ELESIDGE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOKE STREET, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post the colonies promptly
IHUPSON SROTH ER3
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
32 & 34 Clarence Street,
WORTHINGTON.
pppgfjMSV
TRADE MARK.
SYDNEY.
For all Services kept in Stock.
S©m.c3L for Catalo£ , u.e«
‘ssjioj ‘suoodS
Celebrated
PLATE and
pocket-Knives & §eissors cutlery
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York-St.
SYDNEY.
Also at
“THE BLOCK,”
Collins-st.. MELBOURNE.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
&
e<9'
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness.
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- & 2/6.
QNVI9N3 ‘WVHN3n3HO ‘NOS # WVHI339
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affection*.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout, ±
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Pemales,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
SOHOJINNIu
Ji
Sufferers from Deafness or Head Noises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to 'I he L. R. VERNON (_ O.
i 0 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet desc ibing an entirely hew srlf-
applied method which we will send post
free on mentioning this paper.
h. p. mm s co.
Machinery Merchants,
Melbourne & Sydney.
HAVE IN STOCK—
Blake's Steam Pumps.
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery.
Mundy’s Hoisting Engines-
Empire Co.’s Laundry Machinery-
American “All Steel” Pulleys-
Harris ‘‘ Champion ” Lubricating Oils.
Mason Reducing Valves-
Ludlow Sluice Valves-
Korting's Injectors and Ejectors-
Tanite Emery Wheels.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS. 'PRICE, 4s. 6d.; POSTAGE 6d.
Sole Distributing Agents—
J'divards , Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Dvisbane.
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Solo Toxr—
Solarine Metal Polish
Billett’s Patent Tuyere
“Vitaphone” Talking Machine
Dodge Standard Wood Split
Pulley
Atlas Pipe Wrench
“Abbott” Germ Proof Filter
Henry Skinner,
C!larendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 1013.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive awl carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies;- and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Catered for
on Most
Banquets and
Private Balls
Reasonable
Terms.
seized 4suusa
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
Of various sizes supplied.
a 8
HE
jjJ’JOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trains. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
