

MeEWAN’S
GAELIC WHISKY.
Pure,
therefore
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity-”
The Lancet.
Mining
a. WATKISTS dfc GO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
270
Prize
Medals.
22,500
Steam
Engines
Sold.
k
SEND FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value —a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried in vest
pocket and blown out to life-size (causes roars of
laughter), Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Gasket, Book of
Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin and Card
Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard Pish (gives
the definition of your character), The Mafeking Grub (or
nerve-strengthener), and, last of ail, that side-splitting
Look and Laugh Glass, Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Ao»
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
Box 3, G.P.0., Haymarket.
X
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 Georare-streefc, SYDNBT.
GIBSON, BATTLE & o°- M H „ stt ee., SYDNEY.
m:4
Proctor
SOLE AGENTS ' FOR
& Oo
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE —PORTABLE,
VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
STEAM ENGINES and BOILERS and PUMPS. t
Scceutrio Motion Xlirasliirtg Mladiinea, Saw Bencb.es, &0., &o.
i
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831.
WHISKY.
1
§>
A
HOBART.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Gradk).
*l. A. TURNER - - Proprietor.
perfect
1 WATER
ASSISTS
DIGESTION
SHOULD
[BE |
ICED
% ***** f *°» rn e ov®**'
'4
E_PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2' 2j 3 3£ 4 6 6 8 10 12 inch.
-/7 -/9 -/10J 1/- 1/2 1/6 1/11 2/8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 2/11 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
IN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade— viz., the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
9et. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant ; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0. or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, 15ct
gold, filled, Bs. 6d. Illustrated catalogues sent free'
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address —
COLE’S Bf OK ARCADE, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA
THE
PLUM
tU pi
THE
‘PLUM’
Q.ENTLEMEN.— This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their mentis. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS. *
The “PLUM ” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6{L
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
. j Razor, in strong* Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21*
l Single Razor, m Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful oase, 30a.
Sole Agents
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
(ESF" Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
m
PROOF
*8
QneS&
USE
10 BLICH
Office :
SYDNEY
&
V
suffering
from weak
and sore eyes
and blight, should
SINGLETON’S OINTMENT
Never Fails, Restores Eyelashes.
- ALL CHEMISTS. -
Dr. J. W. GIBBS’
. . Electric Massage Rollers . .
For use on Face and Body.
For NERVOUS HEADACHES,
NEURALGIA and RHEUMATISM
—a specific. Removes Wrinkles.
Gold, 21/- Silver, 16/-
Post Free. Pamphlets Free.
AMERICAN AGENCY COMPANY,
Box 440, G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
n
A NICE PRESENT.
The New Combination PIN-
CUSHION, THIMBLE & REEL
HOLDER, nickel plated, plush
top. Clamps on to any table
by means of a spring:. Price,
only 25.; post free.
Star Novelty Company,
229-231 Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
VISITORS T Q MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at
MRS. TOBINS
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconafield Parade
ST. HILDA.
T H n V argeSt Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Be,ch Oh 6B ' 100ro ? 1, ? s - Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
i-hour by tram. Billiards, etc. r
buying a KEROSENE GAS STOVE insist
on getting a noiseless
JUPITER
The Very Latest
Invention.
Burns Noiselessly,
Without Smell
or Smoke,
Perfectly Sale.
Obtained First Prize
wherever exhibited.
Stocked by-all Leading Hardware Merchants and
Storekeepers.
Sole Agents for Australasia —
Nelson and Robertson,
l7 LOFTUS ST., SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vol 23. No. 1171. J
[(Saturday, July 26, 1902.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE LATEST BOOKS AT-- I JL-J
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd
Rr P t Ilarte On the Old Trail, 2s 6d &3s 6d, postal 6d.
wTshaw Diamond of Evil, 3s 6d, p 6d.
Sfa O nt?Trafning, ’loo‘2 new edition of Infantry
Drill), 18 3d, p. 2d.
Gubbins, Pick-Me-Ups, 2s 6d &3s "d postage 6d.
Albanesi Peter a Parasite, 8s 6d, p. 6d.
Budds, American Horticulture ® s A d p ’ 7d ‘
Boxail, Australian Bushrangers, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Tytler, Rival Olaimants, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Wallace, Web of the Empire, 255, p. Is 6d.
Gee, Medical Lectures, 6s, p. <u.
k & ofe Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & I
HUDSON’S EI)MENTHOL y*fe/ JUJUBES
* IU FOB THE THROAT 1 THE THE LOMSS.
tiOU | a 8 r h y to recommend them to all singers.”
THE RED PAGE.
The Future of the Australian Com-
monwealth.
I establishment of the Commonwealth of
ustralia has been repeatedly described as
e advent of a new nation. But the use
the word nation in connection with that
ither metaleptical, or has a prospective
to a future consummation of the work
ie Australian people and the Imperial
nt of the British Empire have, so far,
>erformed in uniting the inhabitants of
ralian continent and the island of Tas-
one political organisation of the federal
hat work has been accomplished under a
nee of the sovereignty of the Imperial
mt of the British Empire over the terri-
iprised in the Commonwealth ; and if the
tion is used in a limited sense to designate
used community in occupation of a denned
and in possession of large powers of
tonomy, but without reference to the
of the sovereign power from which all
authority exerciseable in the community
y proceeds, then, undoubtedly, a distinct
nay exist in a state of subjection or sub-
on to an external sovereignty. But the
mts of a province or appendage of
are not transformed into a distinct nation,
ull and perfect meaning of the word, when
s invested by the sovereign power of chat
with a large measure of autonomy it
to all their local affairs and interests, but
subject to the paramount legislative and
ve and judicial authority of the sovereignty
has conferred that measure of autonomy
iem.
ie absence of any genealogically ana his-
y distinctive origin, the only foundation ot
rate nationality, in the full sense of the
is political; and from the strictly political
>f view separate nationality does not exist,
Drdance with the proper use of the word,
it separate sovereignty. The forces which
:e separate sovereignties in separate eon-
neous and homolingual communities are
r distinguishable in character and influence
the separate descriptions of geographical,
teal and political. These several forces
;e reciprocally upon one another, and their
ictivity and product are largely affected by
tal physical environment of the community,
tinctive characteristics have already begun to
r in the Anglo-Australian who is bom of Aus-
a parentage upon Australian soil, and lives
i life upon it, although the factor of a separ-
olitical sovereignty is as yet absent. lhe
ary of the Commonwealth of Australia con-
es a total physical environment sufficiently
so from the physical environments of
aopulations of Great Britain and Irelan
-operate effectually with the social forces
dually at work in the Commonwealth,
separate social segregation, to produce a
ict type of human life and character. And
ccessive generations, born upon Australian
,nd nurtured under Australian influences a
actively Australian type of human character
become more and more emphatic, and will
ly distinguish the native Australian from his
anguineous and homolingual contemporaries
urope and America.
it if this distinctively Australian type of
an character is to come to a natural maturity,
is to make its largest possible contribution to
multiform civilisation of the world, it
its full and perfect expression m a dista t
onal life, which cannot be fully evoived with-
complete political autonomy and its attendant
Abilities and burdens. If the younger and
populous and less powerful of two consan-
aeous and homolingual communities is subject
he sovereignty and ultimate control
he older and larger and more powerful com-
nity, the social and political ideals and aims of
sovereign community will dominate and mould
, social and political life of the dependent com
nity to a degree which will always make it, to a,
ger or lesl extent, a social and political
itation of the dominant community , and
that extent will obstruct the natural evolution
the social and political ideals and aims and
ititutions in which an independent nationality
iuld find its natural and legitimate expression.
the Commonwealth of Australia remain
: ever an appendage of the British
npire, it will never contribute to the
Xy of the world the distinctive ideals and
Movements which a distinctively Australian
•tion would add to the common stock of human
•perience and accomplishment; because so long
fSSSfa-» app<™i*s» •‘rss&rs
hrntv it will never reach that maturity o
itiohal life which requires for its evolution a
■alisation of national individuality and a con-
dousness of capacities and opportunities which
nly complete autonomy can perfectly awaken.
But it must be clear to every one who, without
ny warping prepossession of his p’ mmom
xamines the present relations of the Common
wealth of Australia to the Imperial Parliament and
o the British Crown, that those relations cannot
iontinue after the population and power
Commonwealth have increased to an extent which
Mil make it fully able to resist, without Imperial
assistance, any attempt by a foreign enemy to in-
vade its territory or to destroy its commerce. The
large increase in the future in the proportion of
the* population of the Commonwealth which will
be born upon Australian soil will be attended by
a large increment of a definite Australian senti-
menf in the Commonwealth, which will resist, as
♦neongruous with the local interests of the Com-
monwealth, and with its capacities of self-govern-
ment and its powers of self-protection, the
paramount legislative authority of the Imperial
Parliament, and the power of the Crown h> dis-
allow any legislation of the Parliament of the
Commonwealth and any amendment of the Con-
stitution of the Commonwealth which has received
the ratification of the votes of a majority of the
electors of the Commonwealth. A prudent disuse
of the royal power of veto upon the legislation ot
the Commonwealth, and an equally prudent con-
sultation of Australian opinion and sentiment in
regard to all proposed legislation by the Imperial
Parliament which will affect the Commonwealth,
may prolong the connection of the Commonwealth
with the Empire for a long period. But the time
will inevitably come when Australian sentiment
will demand the abolition of the subordination
of the Parliament of the Commonwealth to the
royal power of veto upon its legislation, ana
the paramount legislative power of an externa
sovereignty; and the abolition of that subordina-
tion will proclaim the advent of an Austra lan
sovereignty and full and complete Austra lan
nationality.
The advocates of that nebulous conception of
the future relations of Great Britain and her
dependencies which they describe as lmperia
Federation may continue to refer regretfully to the
separation of the United States of America
from Great Britain, but a strong preconception in
favor of a particular period in the past history ot
the world could find plausible reasons to regret the
dismemberment of the empire of Charlemagne,
and the evolution of the separate nations which
subsequently occupied the territories which 1
comprised. When the advocates of a perpetual
union among all the component communities ot
the British Empire employ the word “federation
to describe a connection which will continue tie
present paramount legislative power of the Britis 1
Parliament and the disallowing prerogative ot tne
Crown in regard to the legislation of all the
subordinate Parliaments in the Empire, they
make a total misuse of the word “federation as
a recognised term of political nomenclature, and
thereby unconsciously conceal from themselves
the true character of the connection which they
contemplate. A federation of all the component
communities of the British Empire, in the tiue
meaning of the word, would mean the abolition ot
the present legislative power of the British i arlia-
ment over such dependencies as Canada and Aus-
tralia, and the erection of another legislative
authority through which such dependencies would
share in the possession and exercise ot the
sovereign power of the empire. But a political
union of that character would mean the incor-
poration of the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Ireland in an organisation in which its his-
toric institutions would be intensely incongruous,
and in which the divergent industrial and com-
mercial interests of the several members ot the
union would create recurring antagonisms tending
to disruption, if they were made subject to
a common legislative control. If, on the
contrary, the British Parliament is to re-
tain its present paramount legislative authority
over the whole Empire, then Canada and Aus-
tralia will remain provincial dependencies ot
that Empire, without participation in the pos-
session and exercise of sovereign power and with-
out any international recognition as nations among
nations.
The propagandists of a perpetual connection
between Great Britain and her consanguineous
and homolingual dependencies assert that
all the necessary foundations of a poli-
tical unity are found in their racial
origin, their unity of language and the
similarity of their political institutions and
methods. But these alleged foundations of
political unity do not obliterate those differences
in geographical position and physical environment
which create in widely-separated territories, with
diverse climates and productions, divergencies m
industrial and commercial pursuits and interests
and antagonistic immigrational relations with
other countries ; and any attempt to regulate all
such divergent interests and antagonistic relations
in a manner that may seem beneficial to the major
part of the Empire must produce periodical dis-
content and more or less resistance m particular
portions of it. . ,
T-he Commonwealth of Australia has already
had an example of the manner m which the
allegation may be made that the interests of the
whole Empire may be affected, and their supre-
macy may be invoked, for the purpose of over-
riding the legally and constitutionally-expressed
wishes of the majority of the AustralianP^P l ®'
There was not a provision of the Bill to consti
tute the Commonwealth of Australia which had
undergone a more exhaustive discussion in each
of the three meetings of the Convention of 1897,
and in the previous Convention of 1891, than that
which prohibited appeals from judgments of the
High Court of the Commonwealth to the Judicial
Committee of the Privy Council m cases in which
an interpretation of the Constitution of the Com
monwealth was involved. Yet, when the Bill was
under discussion in the Imperial Parliament, the
Secretary of State for the Colonies openly allied
himself with the defeated and discontented
minority in Australia, and, as has been graphi
cally and correctly stated by an independent
observer, “appealed to its representatives to
cable to him the opinions of public men, of
influential representatives of the mercantile com-
munity, and a section of the newspapers; and,
having obtained them, he did not scruple to use
them as a set-off against the declared wishes of
the responsible Governments of a.majority of the
colonies.” —(Atlantic Monthly, March, 1901, p.
40G ) The Colonial Secretary, m his blindness,
persuaded himself that he. was using the solid
phalanx of obedient imperialists behind him to
maintain the unity of the Empire;; bu ihe builded
better than he knew, and exhibited to the Aus
tralian people a pregnant object-lesson illustrative
of what they may expect in the future from their
subordination to the Imperial Parliament.
Another pregnant object-lesson of the same
character was the disallowance by the Crown,
upon the advice of the same Colonial Secretary,
of an Act passed by the Parliament of Queensland
to prohibit the employment of colored an
industry which was to be subsidised by the State.
This instance of imperial interference with Aus-
tralian legislation, and the reason given, by the
Colonial Secretary in justification of it, viz., that
the Crown could never consent to the exclusion of
any of its subjects from any portion. of ite
dominions, demonstrates clearly that the geo
graphical position of the Commonwealth of Aus
tralia necessitates the acquisition ofanindepend
ent autonomy by the Commonwealth, for' the
future protection of its social and industrial
interests against the influx of Asiatics, m regardg
whom legislative exclusion frem other SjrtooOh*
Empire is not equally urgent. Ihe increase oi
facilities of intercourse and communication among
tee inhabitants of different portions of the surface
of the elobe,. by which it is frequently alleged
that the*practical difficulties in the way of a closer
political uidon of Great Britain and her dependen-
cies will be removed, will make more imperative
to the Commonwealth of Australia the acquisition
of an independent autonomy for the regulation of
its relations with its Asiatic neighbors ; because
the diminution of the natural protection provided
by geographical distance against Asiatic immigra-
tion will make more necessary a pohtatal protec
tion against it. The people fnd Par ment ot
the Commonwealth have declared emphatically
for a White Australia, and if they and thenr sue
cessors are faithful to that declaration toe con
tinuance of the Commonwealth as an Integra
portion of an Empire which contains m l io
colored subjects of diverse races will become every
year more nearly impossible.
Tf the sole purpose and consummation of all
social organisation and poetical je
satisfaction of the physical appetite, and necesa
ties of the human animal, the sentiment ot
Let national individuality might be regarded . *»
a useless excrescence, or, at best, as a* ten f■ y
and imperfect factor in social evolution. Bute
perfect efflorescence and fruition of all social
organisation and political activity are found m the
various tvpes of human excellence which they
have evolved. “The glory that was &reece and
the o-randeur that was Rome, as they were exni
bited in the realm of political activity are pr
served for the world m the record, oftdelvesa
deeds of men like Lyctirgus 1 brides, BpaWmon
da« Cincinnatus, Fabius Maximus, and the t o
Scipios. The glory and the grai}deur °f tl e
national life of France are enshrined m the lustr
of such names as St. Lojns, GhanceHor L Hopita ,
Oolieny Sully, Richelieu, Mirabeau, Carrel, and
Gambetta. The national greatness of England is
SSI in such builders of Edward I
Drake, Pym, Cromwell, Vane, Comers,
I am, and Gladstone. The, frgition of. t
al life of the Anglo-American Repubhc is
in Washington, Franklin, the two Adamses,
son, Hamilton Maddieon, Livingston
,a,ll Webster, Sumner, and Lincoln, ana
co-workers in the task of building up their
“'sTie. It i, impossible tooojWjj*.*
5 like these in association with a purely
icial existence. Only ae the eons end
its of a sovereign State and as
directors of its d ® stl ” h y We^® he d 0 6
ra of such men possible to them. Re do
m of Canada has now a population exceeding
imbers and in accumulated resources that
i inhabited the 13 colonies which declared
separate nationality and independence on
ame continent in 1776; and the older pro-
's of the Dominion have a history under
sh Sovereignty which exceeds lu length the
ry of the separate nationality of the Uintcd
J;; but Canada has not yet given to the world
names associated with such services to their
try and humanity as have inscribed the names
e mentioned upon the tablets of national
,ories. Without demanding from the pro-
ial conditions of Canada such heroic figures as
ihington and Lincoln, we may legitimately ask
we do not find in Canadian history any
rd of services like thfe which were performed
the United States by Hamilton, Marshall,
7, Livingstone and Webster. The answer is
; the provincial and subordinate position which
ada has occupied within the British Empire
in the world has made impossible within her
ndaries careers and achievements parallel to
» of the great men of the. Anglo-American
jublic ; and a like impossibility of such .career®
achievements will attend the provincial and
ordinate position of the Commonwealth of
stralia within the British Empire so long as the
nmonwealth continues to occupy it.
’he vital root of the personal force and m-
ince of the moulders and directors of the des-
ies of nations is found in that patriotic emotion
ich only attains its highest strength and endur-
:e and its greatest clearness and directness of
ion, when the possessor of it realises .that the
tere, within which he acts and his influence
;ends, embraces the totality of the uation s
erests and all its international relations,
is experience is clearly impossible in a
pendent and subordinate community, and
pseudo-patriotism that endeavors to embrace
widely-extended Empire which includes dif-
ent races of men and distinctly different civilisa-
ns, and divergent, if not antagonistic, industrial
d commercial interests, will be nothing more
in a corroding passion for aggrandisement and
mination. Such pseudo-patnotism can work
lv evil for humanity, and if there is any sub
intial foundation for the hope of a continual
ogress in the welfare of the human race, it must
found in a continuation of the processes by
lich the previous stages in the evolution of
rilisation have been attained. Ini the' realm of
ilitical activity this process has been the division
the population of the world into separate
■gregates located in diverse physical environ-
ents and evolving, m association with distinct
ilitical organisations, distinct types of human
laracter aid capacity. Unity of nee and lan-
will doubtless at all times produce
references in the sympathies and 1
t nations; and the sympathy and affection of
a independent Australia would always flow out
5 Great Britain and Ireland and tothe Anglo-
American Republic in preference to all the other
ations of the world ; and the influences of all the
uman qualities and national characteristics which
ave made England great and glorious woMd not
ie less beneficent for humanity if they proceeded.
Lm the activities of three or four
tations which traced their descent from the
ame original stock. Three or four such
lations would exert a more powerful and
nore controlling influence upon international
relations than that which would be exercised by
m extended and mighty Empire whose inter-
aational policy was directed from one controlling
rentee ?t is beyond dispute that the combing
voices of England and America m any inter-
national conference at the present time would
e&rrv a greater influence than the smgm
of t larger British Empire, of which
the United States were so many provincial
deoendencies; and the combined voices of
Fus-land America, Canada and Australia speak-
£as separate nations, and with separate and
rlifiiuet responsibilities for their actions, would
exert upon tee future destiny of the Imman race a
far more powerful and beneficent influence than
the “fetation of a world-wide empire, towards
which the other nations of the worid be
constantly prone to adopt an attitude of jealousy,
suspicion and resentment.
If the foregoing observations and deductions
are well-founded, it is very evident that the
wisest statesmanship in relation to such depend-
encies of the British Empire as Canada and
Australia on the part of the Imperial Parliament
and the Ministers of the Crown m England is to
refrain from any attempt m the name of imperial
interests to obstruct the evolution of their separ-
ate nationalities, and rather to assist m the
consummation of the glorious work which the
Mother Country has so far accomplished in the
erection of the foundations of a family of nations,
which are destined to encircle the earth as so
many homes and fortresses of the highest type of
political excellence and social well-being.
CIVIS AUSTBALLENSIS
The Purpose of Art.
As artists, Rembrandt and Rossetti stand
at the opposite poles. The one was a
master; the other never got beyond the
stage of being a student, and an experimenter.
The one was an apostle of realism, the realism
which Zola interpreted in literature ; the other of
a fervid religious romanticism. Yet both were
great influences in Art-the Dutch realist and the
English-Italian pre-Raphaelite —and a true appre-
ciation and fair judgment of the relative values of
I the ideas of Rembrandt and Rossetti, as expressed
or sought to be expressed in their works, would
give a full answer to that vexed question : What
is the Purpose of Art ? Rossetti strove as valiantly,
if not as skilfully, as Rembrandt to champion an
ideal utterly antagonistic to that of the Hol-
lander ; and perhaps more of the truth was with
the inferior painter. ~ . . _
Rembrandt aimed, above all things, at realism.
All notions of idealism he rejected utterly.
Soldiers, beggars, burghers, women, he painted as
they were, not sparing a shadow, a crease, or a
wrinkle. He refused to believe that classic
nymphs were in any degree different from the
Dutch vrows who stood as his models, and whose
care-worn, toil-worn faces were matched with
almost grotesque and painful realism by care-
worn, toil-worn bodies, wrinkled with child-bear-
ing and the coarse labor of the field and cottage.
His “Diana Bathing” is a Dutch woman who has
had at least 10 children, and at least 40 years of
hard-working life ; she bathes in a stream, not in
a large wooden tub, but that is the o y
concession to idealism. As a picture of
some Prau Stoffel it would probably be
absolutely lifelike, if that Frau could be
imagined attempting so picturesque a bath, or
indeed any bath at all. This and other Pictures,
in which no grossness of physical detail, however
unpleasant, is spared, showed Rembrandt s reso-
lution not only to be real, but to carry on an
aggressive campaign against idealism. Simp
realism would have contented itself with P. amtl ”»
suitable subjects in real fashion, and leaving the
domain of conventionally-ideal nudes alone,
that did not satisfy Rembrandt. He must put on
his canvas bearded angels, an alarming y *
tomical Adam, and various t e
models for whom obviously sold fish on the quays
of Amsterdam. It is not unreasonable to divine
in that a deliberate campaign against conventional
ideals in painting, against the idealistic bcauty of
nude studies, against the suppression of the un-
pleasant by artists. Similarly Zola, castmgthe
gage of defiance at the romanticists, and P lea dmg
for realism, deliberately deals with the disgusti g,
saying with Whitman — .
I am determined to tell, you with courageous, clear voice,
to prove you illustrious
How superb and how divine is your body, or any part
Rossetti, with Madox Brown, was theapostle of
the pre-Raphaelites who did. so much to infuse
new life into English art His ar^ de *
exact antithesis to that of Rembrandt. Inaseries
of pictures and designs, beginning with the gi
hood of Mary Virgin” and “Ecce Ancilla
Domini” and ending with (say) The Blessed
Damozel,” he pleaded powerfully forareturno
the symbolism, the imaginativeness, the poetry aim
the religious spirit of painting before Ra
His women are practically all of the one type-
the type of the Easter lily and the seraph-
showing a pure sensuousness, tinged most ofte
with tinder melancholy. Very seldom do they
look absolutely natural. But their rapt an
ethereal faces are depicted in an atmosphere and
with accessories so entirely harmonious astog l
them an air of poetic reality. Veryoftenthe
figures are not eyen properly drawn, and the can
vK are over-crowded with the den*.rfa
complex symbolism. But, withal, one may
fcTan hom’s dream m a Bossett; pro”'
meet nothing to disturb the rmpreasion
Rembrandt painted men and women with abso
lute and gross attention to detail, and with ma
vellous insight and perfect knowledge of color.
Rossetti attempted to pamt poetic ldea V^®f b ut
realism absolutely, and shoynng sometimes but
poor technique. Putting aside the difference m
the quality of performance which had the tnier
TiurDOse ’ Surely Rossetti, it is tne aim
SfS to P SK.ielife, all of life, and nothmgj»
actually inartistic which conreya
part of life, however unpleasant. But that is t
higher art which Beeks to noblears.^
of ft atoeladsl aughing over the bowels.
V.
J. Brunton Stephens died not at all
and the Johnsonian Club, Brisbane, has n
a fund to keep his memory green >
all possible ways, by helping hls ™°\T' . £ d
Boet did not reap his due harvest m lue , a
Australians can do something now *£ d
balance. The Bulletin- will be glad to receive
acknowledge, subscnptions-or Club,
direct to the secretary of the Johnsonian w
Brisbane.
Some correspondents— Encyclopsadia
To Titus : A new edition (theilOth) of the
been^already 9 published. ’
* Rembrandt, a critical essay by Auguste Brtel; Duck-
worth and Oo., London. And Ford Madox
Bossetti, a critical essay on his art by Dora
Huefier; Duckworth and Oo.


.. • S . . r t
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN,
i SYDNEY.
s
Chief Agents - F. LASSETTER & GO.
Kangaroo,
Wallaby, !
Rabbit,
Opossumb
Send to
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON & GO.,
SYDKTEY,
and so obtain utmost possible prices.
SPECIAL KTOTICE.
COLDSBROUCH, MORT & COMPANY Ltd.
Compare our Reduced Produce Charges
with those of -
other Brokers.
Old uharoes.
4 per cent.
4 per cent.
2£ per cent.
4 per cent.
5 per cent.
f P er cent. FURRED SKINS
5 per cent. (Minimum Ss per ton) BARK
Our Reduced Charges.
3 per cent.
3 per cent.
2 per cent.
, v —, 3 per cent.
H/UR,_HORNS, BONES, &c. 4 per cent.
3| per cent.
4 per cent. (Minimum 4s per ton)
HIDES
SHEEPSKINS
TALLOW (£lOO and over)
TALLOW (under £100)
fullv mai ntaininv H f 1,636 ""Preoedently Low Rates, we desire to emphasise the fact thaif we are j
e”fewheL P se « u f nn S that will favorably compare with those obtained by sending
absolutely safSlnT offe * ed to . Agents influencing business. Correspondence invited. All Proceeds
aosolutelysafeguarded by our Trust Account system. ' GEORGE MAIDEN, Manager
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT*
Sole Charge s 3 Per Cent, to the Growers.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Bayers.
The Bulletin Story Book.
.A. Handsome Cloth-bound Volume of over 300 pages. The best
collection of Short Stories and Literary Sketches yet produced in
Australia. Price, 4s. 6d. Wholesale : Edwards, Dunlop and Co.
WONDERFUL VALUE IN CIGARS.
SINGLE BOX AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
GUARANTEE): EVERY CIGAR SOUND AND IN PERFECT CONDITION.
Goods Exchanged or Money Returned.
CIGARS
DELIVERED FREE OF DUTY AND CHARGES^
Post Free
Post Free Usual Retail
ROMA QUEENS
LA PAROLA, Reliable Smoke ..
[HIGH LIFE MENDOZAS
NIMROD REINA VICTORIA ..
LA SPECIAL, from Choicest Leaf
SANTIAGO LA FLOR, Fine Quality
“LEOLA,” Borneo, Mild Smoking’
“EL RIVAL,” Borneo, Full Flavor
HEAVY WEIGHTS (P. De Mendoza)
‘ ‘ PERLA ’’ BOUQUET .. - ■
.“EL MUNDO” (Rothschilds)
“MENDOZA” (Rothschilds)
“PERLA” (Rothschilds)
“MINERVA” No. 1 MANILA ..
“ WINDSOR LADY ” (Manila Regalia) ..
“PERLA MINERVA,” MANILA, Fine Quality
FLOR -DE NAVES (Havana Rejna) _ .
HENRY CLAY (Havana Couchas, Extra)
25 in box
100 in box
100 in box
100 in box
100 in box
50 in box
50 in box
50 in box
ICO in box
50 in box
25 in box
25 in box
25 in box
100 in box
50 in box
25 in box
100 in box
60 in box
SEND FOR
OUR
LIST
OF
BRIAR
PIPES
MICK SIMMONS,
TOBACCO MERCHANT and IMPORTER, Haymarket, SYDNEY.
Tobacconists and Storekeepers may obtain Wholesale List on application.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
111 Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
DEFY OOBO»BTIXI03Xr.
WINES rhe Best Brands onl, j °) SPIRITS
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS. Sco.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
A
1 3;
MINING ENGINEER.
“Ontario,” Nicholson Street,
Gentlemen, —
Burwood, N.S.W.,
March 8, 1900.
“ On the Ist Sept., 1898, I became over-boated,
then suddenly exposed to a piercing cold wind, I
caught a chill, the result being that I was deprived
of robust health, and for about seven months my
life was despaired of. During this time X had been
through the hands of eight medical men in private
and public hospitals. The majority of them held
out no hope, some of them declaring that I had
kidney, liver, heart and lung troubles. In the last
Hospital, my medical attendapt said I had fright’s
Disease of the kidneys, that he could do nothing
for me, and that I had better be taken home, as I
could not recover. Rather a dark prospect this,
considering that, in addition to the troubles
enumerated above, I had dropsy to a fearful extent.
I had been tapped in the lower part of the abdomen
five times, several gallons of water being drawn off,
but all to no good purpose. In a few days after
being tapped, I swelled up in my legs, abdomen,
and Stomach, larger than before. The dropsy
began to make its appearance in my hands and face.
My body sw r elled to ; that degree that I sickened to
look at myself, and many times wished I could die.
Friends who visited me sympathised and bid me,
as they believed, a last farewell. But an angel of
mercy came in the shape of Warner’s Safe Cure.
A lady .friend strongly recommended me to give up
hospitals, doctors and'medicines, and take only
Warner’s Safe Cure. On the 3rd April, 1899, I
began to take Warner’s Safe Cure. As soon as I
began to take this medicine my appetite began to
return. At the end of four weeks, when I had
drank four bottles of Safe Cure, the water began to
come away. I reduced in circumference around
the abdomen from 54| inches to 41-| inches, and my
legs reduced in proportion. I felt like a new man.
My spirits returned. I began to get regular sleep,
still reducing in size until not a vestige of lung,
kidney, liver or dropsy trouble could be seen or
feft. lam now in the best of health, and am firmly
convinced that Warner’s Safe Cure lias, in God’s
been the means of restoring my lost health
■Slid -strength. I would gladly write, talk, or sing
the praises of Warner’s Safe Cure, but will con-
clude by stating that I shall be only too happy to
answer any questions, either by letter or otherwise.
I feel I owe a duty to the world at large in making
known the almost miraculous cure effected in my
case by Warner’s Safe Cure. I also feel a deep
debt of gratitude to the discoverer of Warner’s Safe
Cure, and trust this humble, unsolicited testimonial
may be made public for the benefit of suffering
humanity. lam well-known all over the Australian
Colonies* and my old mining Contemporaries will
rejoice to learn of my restoration to health.”
S. E. RICHARDS,
Mining Engineer.
Messrs. 11. 11. Warner & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne. Vic.
WHEN YOU HAVE
READ THIS LETTER
you will see that even Bright’s Disease
of the Kidneys can be cured by taking
■ ■■
■ ■
Warner’s Safe Cure, is the only medi-
cine known to science which will CURE
Bright’s Disease, and not only does it
cure this most fatal of kidney diseases,
but it is a remedy for
and for all complaints arising from any
disability of the kidneys and liver to
properly perform their allotted task of
extracting from the blood the urinary
and biliary poisons, which, retained in
the system, are the cause of so much
suffering.
Rheumatism
General Debility
Bright’s Disease
Bladder Diseases
Blood Disorders
Sick Headache
Biliousness
Indigestion
The following complaints all arise
from the retention in the system
of urinary and biliary poisons:
Dyspepsia
Neuralgia
Backache
Sciatica
Lumbago
Anaemia
Gout
Gravel
WARNER’S
SAFE
CURE
Cures all these by restoring the kidneys
and liver to -health when the causative
poisons are removed in a natural
manner.


GENERAL
ELECTRIC
COMPANY.
Capital - - - £5,250,000.
Manufactures the Highest Grade of
Electrical Machinery.
THEIR NAME IS A GUARANTEE.
; %•:
,-j' tJ, r. • V .. i , . =■. ''
Dynamos, Engines and Motors up to 250 H.P. in Stock.
Lighting and Power Plants for Immediate Delivery.
Arc and Incandescent Lamps and Supplies of all kinds.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.,
Electrical Engineers and Contractors,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES.
•" ; .2 ... ■ -
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, Melbourne and Sydney.
SIMPLIFIED
PHOTOGRAPHY
Photography is the easy Photography. Can be mastered by
anyone in a few minutes. No dark room is required for
changing the films.
mn ■
Z ’ON 3MJL
PLICO
KODAK
A Kodak for a guinea, to take pictures x 3 X A inches. Carries
a roll of films for 12 exposures. Send for Price List and
mention this paper.
KODAK, Ltd-, & Reduced, 284 Collins-st., Me b
Free Lessons Daily, at 3 p.m., at the above address.
ROBERTS’
HOTEL, YOU ENJOY
YOUR LUNCH
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
Single Room, with Full Board, Bs. per
day, or JB2 2s. per week.
TERMS. — The convenient
system of paying for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
•well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is. —and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.30 —from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
Just 1 1
Published.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Morant,
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
■ £ait — con,r,aeu< "
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney.
Morbid Months of Misery.
“A DESPAIRING WRECK OF HUMANITY.”
A Great Friend iri Time of Need;
TJje Case of W[r. H. B 'I^NETTi
(by a special reporter.)
It is worthy of note that the interviews
which have from time to time appeared in
these columns are singularly free from mere
theorising about the subjects dealt with,
and are entirely confined to practical, though
none the less interesting, details, an addition
to which is made by Henry Barnett, of No.
212 James-street, Leichhardt.
“To show what important events meo
times arise from trivial causes,” said the
gentleman mentioned, “Imust inform you
that one day I scratched my elbow with a
piece of zinc, which was hanging loosely in-
side a waggon. It was nothing to grow
alarmed about, I thought, and I took no
notice of it until the next day, when my
arm appeared to be slightly inflamed, but I
.did.not take any precaution to stop it get-
ting anv worse. Not till a w eek afterwards
did I bother myself and by that time my
arm was so much swollen, and the pain was
so intense, that I could not go any longer
without seeking some advice.”
“ Where did you go for it?” the repor-
ter enquired.
“ To the hospital, and on three successive
visits my arm was operated upon. It was
then that I realised the great disaster which
had overtaken me, as the doctor said I had
just come in time to save losing my life from
blood poisoning, so by that you will know
that I was in a dreadful state.”
“ Were you able to attend to your busi-
ness ? ” ’ '
“Work of any description was beyond
my powers for nearly four months, for my
constitution was fairly broken up and! was
almost helpless. ■ This being the first illness
I ever had, you may depend that I felt my
misfortune very keenly, and the thought
that I would never be able to use my arm
again nearly drove me frantic. I sat and
brooded over my troubles till my mind
lapsed into a chronic state of despondency,
and although the doctor said I had come
‘ just in time,’ I did not feel so sure about
it, as I felt so generally weak and wretched
that I doubted if I could survive the terrible
calamity which had occurred. For five
days and nights I did not eat a morsel of
food, although I tried hard enough to take
a little nourishment, but I could not swal-
low what I put to my mouth, and this, to-
gether with the agonising pains I was
suffering, made a thorough wreck of me.
My cruel tortures would not allow me to
sleep, neither did T know which way 1 to lie
for ease, so that when daylight came I was
glad to get up in spite of having scarcely
sufficient strength to walk about, for if I
did \saks an attempt my- head turned so
giddy that I suus had to sit down again.
My wife was kept going t?sght and day bath-
ing and bandaging my arm, hut even the
great care I received and the doctor’s medi-
cines combined could not succeed in elimi-
nating the poison which prevented the
wound from healing. I was completely at
the mercy of my‘original complaint, which in
time made my recovery more improbable,
because of the ruin it wrought on my in-
ternal organs, and as ailment after ailment
was? piled up I saw that my prospects were
more gloomy than ever. My nerves were
always on the quiver, which showed that
the strain on my system was too great for
them, and I felt particularly nervous on
hearing any noises, which also grated on my
ears and made me extremely irritable. I
could see that it was no good taking any
more doctor’s medicines, as I was getting no
benefit from them and they made me feel
sick; besides, they did not help me in re-
gard to my appetite, so I decided on pur-
chasing some Clements Tonic.”
“ How did that idea originate ? ”
“ Well, I had taken Clements Tonic to
give me an appetite once before when I was
feeling a bit jaded, and it made me eat like
a horse ; and now that I was so feeble, and
run down as low as I could be, I thought
Clements ' Tonic might do the same again.
And upon my word, it did ; but for a while
I was sorry that Clements Tonic made rtie
eat so heartily, as my digestive organs were
in such a shockingly bad state that all food
disagreed with me. My stomach always
got filled with wind, and my chest pains
were so weighty that I could scarcely get
my breath, while the awful pains 1 had
hitherto been maddened with were added
to by- something going wrong between my
shoulders. The taste in my mouth and the
furred condition of my tongue testified to
the disordered state of my liver, but the
aches in my limbs and across my loins told
the direful tale that my vitality was per-
fectly exhausted. When I come to look
back upon those weeks of abject torture and
misery, when I could not even read for the
swoll n feeling in my eyes, with no anima-
tion in my body, and with no hope left, I
consider it a merciful of
Providence which influenced me to perse-
vere with Clements Tonic, by the aid of
which came a delightful experience that
broke the morbid monotony of all those
months. When the first bottle of Clements
Tonic was finished I was sleeping more
soundly than I had done for some time past,
the reason being that there was a decrease
in the pains which had kept me awake so
consistently, and how thankful I was for
the rest, too ! To find that I could obtain
relief from Clements Tonic gave me a fresh
interest in life, although I did not antici-
pate throwing off my afflictions altogether,
as they had held out so obstinately against
other medicines ; but I was grateful for all
mercies, and when the discomforts following
my meals were lessened you can imagine
my great surprise. Little by little my
strength returned, and the vitalizing pro-
perties of Clements Tonic came in evidence
by the gradual healing of the wound in my
arm, and now there is nothing but a scar to
show where it was opened. I had lost a
considerable amount of flesh during my
illness, but in a few weeks it was all re-
stored, so it is needless to say that Clements
Tonic put my digestive organs in thorough
order, besides iufusing so much power to my
nervous system that you could not have got
a tremble out of my nerves no matter how
vou might have tried. Before long I had
shaken off every pain that had tormented me,
and with the full complement of strength
which Clements Tonic restored to my sys
tern, I went back to work none the worse
for-the terrible trials I had undergone. .
“ Are you sure you were quite cured ?
“I ha\e not had the least thing wrong
with me since, and I feel as hearty as though
my constitution were made of iron, so
Clements Tonic did its work well. 1 was
a despairing wreck of humanity when it
was called into requisition, and for saving
me as it did I owe my life-long thanks to
Clements Tonic—an admission which you
can publish in any way that may . do. good.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Heney Barnett, of 212 James-streefc, Leich-
hardt, in the State of Now South Wales, Com-
monwealth of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely
declare that I have carefully read the annexed
document, consisting of four folios, and consecu-
tively numbered from one to four, and that
contains and is a true and faithful account pf my
illness and cure bv Clements Tome, and also contains
mv full permission to publish in any way. my
statements which I vojuntarily, without
receiving any payment; and I make this ®°l®“i
declaration conscientiously believing the Bame to
true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths ACC,
1900.
Subscribed and declared at Leichhardt, thissecond
day of April, one thousand nine hundred and two,
before me, H R g TEWARI>> j.p.
HATTE’S CORONATION FAIR
rj\HE
, „ !n(y rn i pa hv of descent over Millions of Free-born Britishers, and Hatte, by virtue of
Vcool Value, eSrdses a gentle sway over the Ladies of New South Wales. Just now-
The Great Coronation Fair
is on
And the People of both High and Low Degree are Rejoicing.
There are £250,000 of Absolute FAIRING BARGAINS and 400 Highly Efficient
IZ/nfs twns <o g ,ve a ROYAL WELCOME totheLO YAL LEIQES
of THE KING OF THE DRAPERY TRADE.
Ladies ! come early to the Lair (it will console you for being absent from Westminster), and
send for a Fair Book—the Greatest Bargain List ever published.
c. G. HATTE, Newtown,
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
CLOTH. 300 PAGES.’
CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
' r wpttprS PRICE, 4s. 6d. ; POSTAGE 6d.
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRII ERo.
Sole Distributing Agents—
Sole jjistributunw
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.


After having
Bronchitis
She was left with a severe Cough
which only Scott’s Emulsion
cured
A lady who had had Bronchitis was left
with a severe cough which nothing seemed
to relieve. She has written a letter to tell
about the treatment which finally restored
her to health
“ 46, Elmhurst Boad, Forest Gate,
“ London, England,
. “ Sept. 7th, 1900.
Dear Sirs, —Having derived great benefit
from Scott’s Emulsion, I think you may be
interested to hear the results of my ex-
perience with your preparation. When I
commenced the use of Scott’s Emulsion I
had been suffering from bronchitis, which
had left me with a severe cough, and
nothing I tried did me any permanent good.
After X had taken Scott’s Emulsion about a
fortnight my cough had very materially
MRS. E. THOMPSON.
(From a photograph.)
improved and in a short space of time
ceased to trouble me any more. Not
only was my chest greatly strengthened
by the use of Scott’s Emulsion, but my
general health was very much improved.
I have recommended Scott’s Emulsion to
my friends who have been troubled with a
cough or chest ailments, and they also used
it with great benefit. —Faithfully yours,
“ (Signed) (Mrs.) E. Thompson.”
One of the most important truths which
is brought out in the foregoing letter is the
benefit which Scott’s Emulsion is to the
general health. This well-known standard
remedy is a specific for all throat and lung
affections, but its greatest advantage is in its
power to enrich the blood without digestive
effort, and to furnish the entire system
with the nourishing properties of cod-liver
oil. The improvement in the general health
after taking Scott’s Emulsion can hardly
be over estimated and it is of great import-
ance, because the general health determines
to a great extent diseases and chronic
ailments. Scott’s Emulsion aids digestion,
and stimulates the appetite for food. It is
the best form of cod-liver oil that is offered
to the public, being the most palatable, and
most readily absorbed into the blood.
It is well worth being careful to pur-
chase only the genuine Scott’s Emulsion,
which may be distinguished by our trade
mark of a man holding a big fish over his
shoulder.
You can obtain a sample of Scott’s Emulsion
by sending fourpence to Scott & Bowne, Ltd.,
483 Kent-street, Sydney, and mentioning this
paper. All chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
JOHN WALKER # SONS, LTD.,
Distillers and Spirit Merchants
of Kilmarnock, Scotland . .
Beg to announce that they have REMOVED their
Sydney Branch Office
to
No. 9 PHILLIP STREET
(near the Circular Quay),
where they have also OPENED an extensive
bottling warehouse
for Bottling their Whisky in Bond, vmder the
supervision of H.M. Customs.
BALSAM OF HOREHOUND
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
OLD’S BALSAM
BALSAM
For Coughs and Colds.
Every Dose Effective.
Will Cure when Others Fail.
For Pain in the Side.
Best for Influenza.
In Bronchitis and Loss of Voice.
Whooping Cough and Croup.
For Children, Safe and Sure.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Lite Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand,
At Lowest Current Rates of interest.
of
Ou new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers
the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
the privilege of repaying up to 20 per cent.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10s,
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
6£g~ Send for a
Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 1S«.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicle*
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Snssex-street.
W : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for Catalogue. Agents wanted
PLAYER’S
WORLD
■ 1 » ■—ay
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales—
M. RUTTY & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaida
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Qrteensland —
Thoa. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Philp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros., ,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin & Co.
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christchuroh.
.
s JS
l mm
The GANZ
Electric Apparatus
are built right.
Let us give you some
evidence of their
superiority.
Canz Direct Current Air-Propeller SOLE AGENTS:
The lustra! Qtis Engineering Co., CM., Sooth fl)elh.
MARTELLS
“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
“Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
Ji,j Lancet.
BRANDY
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery BVlanuf, Company
When In town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY.' If so, send.for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, A 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £)
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every descriptionof vehicles in Stock and Made
toOrder. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not bs
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for lesi
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 1 j pjf
cent more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cievoland-street, KotUorn, SXDiXiu 4
OUU SPECIAL Xo. 2
£8 18/6
Oelirered at any Wharf « r
?>'.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
BY
“Steele Rudd.’
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Crucified Venus.
The goddess hangs upon the cross
Where she has suffered since the hour
When, breathless to behold their loss,
The gods grew jealous of her power.
Their temples held no docile throng,
Their altars claimed no sacrifice,
When Venus raised her siren song,
When Venus swung her passioned eyes.
They sought to still her bosom's swell
And dull the fervor of her eye;
That man might stay beneath their spell,
They met, and held that she should die.
With nails they pierced her dainty hands,
They raised her on the cross above
A barren waste of stones and sands,
In hope that thus they’d murdered Love.
The home of newt and toad and snake,
Of slime-clad creatures loosed from Hell—
Unmindful that her eyes would make
A Paradise where’er they fell.
Before her glance the poppies blew,
The sunlight clove the leaden air,
The vines entwined the cross and grew
A chaplet round her amber hair.
She will not die; immortal, calm,
She wields her sway, supreme, apart;
No nails can hold her rosy palm,
No blade can still her torrid heart.
No pain can rob her magic store
Of love and beauty, glowing free
For man to stand and gasp before
Her pink, pulsating nudity.
New faiths, begot of greed and hate,
To end her reign in terror try;
Calm-eyed, contemptuous, elate,
She sees the gods grow sick and die.
The mushroom deities, that load
The world with lies in accents smooth,
March on and fade along the road
That leads from Buddha down to Booth.
She knows her power, she sees their plight,
Their feeble gibes, their rotten rods;
She smiles upon their feeble spite—
The one immortal of the gods.
Weak, desperate, undone, afraid,
To-day the bitt’rest blows they deal,
With pride the meek alone parade,
With Hate that only weak men feel.
A swarm of puling priests they breed
To strangle beauty, love and mirth,
To torture those who boast her creed,
To raze her temples to the earth.
The temples pass, the groves remain,
The groves remain for youth and maid;
Even the threats of Hellish pain
Serve not to make their hearts afraid.
With frothing lips and quaking knee
The self-anointed crew entreat —
And, in the dark, when none can see ,
They crawl to worship at her feet.
She will not die; immortal, calm
She wields her sway, supreme, apart,
No nails can hold her rosy palm,
No blade can still her torrid heart.
And so, with jest and ribald shout,
Baulked, impotent their will to do,
Each dawn the dull sects drag her out
And nail her to the cross anew.
W.D.
Lais.
Fierce, pale and languorous; warm and passionate,
Filled with unquenchable ardour, perilous
To weak or strong who near me, full of pain
To those who love—l only am delight
To men who seek me lightly, gold in hand.
What do I care for flower of faithfulness!
My one desire to satiate my wild,
Insatiable and never-cooling fire
With fierce caresses and with mad excess.
And all men love me (Love, how joyfully !)
My supple and soft curving perfectness,
My firm smooth breast on which are boldly set
The twain snow-clad volcanoes, crowned with fire,
Dawn-coloured, full of danger and delight.
My warm, encircling arms bring loss of thought—
Only strong striving sense remains, wherein
The struggle for supremacy, ’twixt pain
And pleasure, strange and swift, holds aching
sway.
The high delirium, succeeded soon
By slow, long calm of smooth, sweet, dusky hours,
Through which I murmur with a voice that
dreams
By dark, cool vales with fern on either side—
A sleepy stream of sound—with here and there
A flash of dainty wit or sudden pause
Of utter silence, while the airs float by
My scented temple, and relieve the heat
With some suggestion of the breezy bay.
Yet comes a time when each man hateth me,
Loving those strange, unknown, pure women, far
From me in thought, whom never I may meet
With eyes that understand the other’s heart—
Since each must lack what fills the other’s life.
I sometimes sigh that I may never know
Ihe peace and gentle cares that use their hours,
Consideration sweet that husbands give,
And clinging little hands that claim their love.
Yet who would change the turmoil of my life,
Its passion, flaming colors, strange, fierce flowers
That grow in graphic nights, for long, pale days
And lily-blooms and love —that surely dies ?
iNot I not Lais ! I have pride and power,
And wealth and beauty, and all men worship me.
S.A.
LALAGE.


ORNAMENTAL hair.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern ol Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to ua for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
(3F“ Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
CRA.ia & AITKEKT,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
WANTED
T
JF YOU ARE SUFFERING from any of the following
ailments, viz., Rheumatism, Sciatica, Vital Weak-
ness, Liver Complaint, Dyspepsia, Lame Back or
Debility, Kidney Disease or any Organic Derange-
ments, we want you to wear one of our ELECTRIC
BELTS, and when CURED to let other sufferers know
that our ELECTRIC BELTS will permanently CURE
when all other Remedies have FAILED. We prefer those
cases who have failed to obtain relief elsewhere. Send
us a description of your oase, and size around the waist
next to skin. Address —
ARTHUR HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
44 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
London Address: 105 Regent Street, W.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
06 R X CORO’S
C,SSt t * C£ ° f f *•'
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essenoe of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 128. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia —PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
F. H. Paulding & Co., 1C O’Connell St., Sydney.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. 0
Address—A. M. HAST, 145 Collins St.j Melbourne.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPYNE
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
asthma, bronchitis,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
■ “ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
yy U IIU H || |J S s*
Powell’s Balsam
of Aniseed.
SAFE AND RELIABLE.—
Gives Immediate Relief.
ffiADE
FOR 78 YEARS
THE POPULAR REMEDY FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and all Lung Troubles.
It loosens the Phlegm immediately, and removes
the tickling sensation in the Throat, which de-
prives so many of rest during the night. It also
Strengthens the Voice and Cures Hoarseness.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers,
But see the well-known Trade Mark—Lion, Net
and Mouse—is on each wrapper.
Prepared only by Thomas Powell, Ltd.,
L Blackfriars, London, S.E. A
FULL DRESS
SUITS...
AND
INFORMAL DINNER
OB
THEATRE SUITS
ABB . .
SPECIALITIES OF OURS.
David Braham & Co.,
TAILORS and COSTUME MAKERS,
73 & 75 KING ST., SYDNEY.
BW - Samples of any Description of Suitings posted free
by return mail, with Self-Measure Charts when
required. ——
Established 1846.
For Sale -
Good quality Fuse, in cases of 600 coils, 4Jd. coil.
Roofing Felt, 75ft. x 32in„ Bs. per roll
600 tons Bolts and Nuts, up to 30in. long.
Black Galvanised Steam Pipe, up to Bin. dia.
Octagon Steel, lin. dia., £2O per ton.
Bullock, Leading, Drag, Back Chains, 2d. lb. _
Good Hand Pumps, 6s. ea. ; Hames, Is. 6d. pair.
Grindstones, 12i». to 20in., 2s. each.
Harwood’s French Polish, ss. gallon.
Mixed Paints, in tins, from 31b.
Damaged (slightly) Wire Nails, 9s. cwt.
Cooking Ranges, 36in. dia., 30s. each.
Black Paint, 20s. cwt.
Marine Paint and Priming, 20s. cwt.
One of the Largest Stocks of Ironmongery
in Australia.
John macintosh & Sons,
Wholesale & Retail
IRONMONGERS, IMPORTERS, BUILDERS,
ENGINEERS PLUMBERS, BLACKSMITHS, CABINET
MAKERS, and GENERAL IRONMONGERY,
307, 321, 323, 325 PITT STREET,
Sydney, N.S.W.
WOOL PRODUCE. GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY.
A.CT /v g sa~FBT -T ■ TTXI Gr BROKERS OHVm.TK'’.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (3) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
(Including Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
OnW ools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb. ... ... ••• : •••
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing. Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Everv inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
AGENTS FOE. McDOUGALL’S sheep dip.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney Clarence Street)
19, 21, 23 King Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES . . .
The ENGLISH DB LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pumps, Turbine Fans.
(Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
Messrs. GREENWOOD & BATLEY LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors, Pumps, etc.
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
insnlatnrl Rabies. Wires. Tanes.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 86 Ohromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is Cd post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 33 Cd posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is Bd.
Secret History of the Court of England, 1 0 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is Gd posted.
Lover’s Letter ‘Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Ohiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and tiie Confessional, is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is Bd post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappho, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s Cd posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted,
i 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is Od.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big Book
Catalogue-post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
I
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
m A ip’Q
GOUT k RHEUMATIC
FIIII.S.
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
“Don’t shout”
I '■ 1 hear you. 1 can hear now
as well as anybody.
How?' Oh some-
thingnew—The Wilson.
Common-sense Ear- -
Drum. I've a pair in.my
ears now. you can'i see them >
they’re invisible. I wouldn't
know I had thhm in myself,
only that I hear all right."
The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
working parts of the
natural ear. Has nu
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other de-
vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
.1. CttALtmtS, 229-231 Collins &t„ HelD._
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
With Patent RUBBER EE lit
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English
American and made to order
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, dec.
DENVER BROS.. Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, arid at Melbourne.
Vapor Bath Cabinets.
Price, 25/-
Kead and Face Steamer, 3/6
Carriage paid to any railway station
on direct route in Victoria, N.S.W.,
and S.A., or any seaport town.
We also have a better quality
Cabinet at 45/- (Head and Face
Steamer/res to advertise this line).
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Hypnotism
Reader, why not he able to _use tne
roost mysterious and powerful folce
nature 1 By my method you cau learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with
out leaving your home. Y ““
form all the many marvellous teats
| that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can ™re disease
rnnmier tjaiii: wm reluctaut affectum,
grat y your ambitions, and produce
Imusement by the hour » costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
l illustrated LESSON or Key to
I Hypnotism, which fully explains
I the mysteries and secrets
lof the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
anil expensive thing ot the kind
ever published. For a short
time I wiil send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a chance of
a life-time. Address —
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Fop Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
QRIMAOLT as Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists.
NOTICE <
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica, i
Lumbago, and. all pains of Head, Face, or ;
Limbs. i
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick (
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists '
in the Australian Colonies.
TRUMAN'S NURSERY LOTION,
Bv one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B. —Insist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.


Ik
KI-d p
I * vS i>l t •» *> n l' o OS~ I
m
' ■ i
'V
mm
m
Jfever rqind baby J Ji will soon grow now:
‘Harlene
FOR
THE
HAIR.
The very Finest Dressing.
Restores the Hair.
Promotes the Growth.
Arrests the Fall.
Strengthens the Roots.
Preserves the Hair.
Renders It Beautifully Soft.
Removes Dandruff.
Allays all Irritation.
Preserves, Strengthens, and Invigorates
Childrens’ Hair.
Full description and directions for use in
20 languages supplied with every bottle.
1/», 2/6, and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per
Bottle from Druggists, &c., all over
the World.
Edwards’ Harlene Co.
High Holborn, London, Eng.
ROB ROY pens
Hinks, Wells & Co. beg to draw attention to this new series of
turned up pointed and other pens, made of the same material, by the
same tools by the same process and at the same works, as the well
known series of Waverley Pens, which Hinks,'Wells & Co. have for
SO years and upwards (prior to September 1901), manufactured for
and supplied to the proprietors thereof.
Sold by all
Stationers in 18
varieties in
6d., Is. & gross boxes.
HINKS, WELIIrP Xr. CO.« Bivmingliain, England.
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
CORSETS
P.D.
CORSETS
«
The Recognised Standard of
HIGH-CLASS CORSETS
LATEST SPECIALTY
Straight Front
Erect Form.
Obtainable from Leading Drapers
Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that each
pair bears the Manufacturer’s “ Trade Mark ” ou
band inside, as above.
The
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PD
PI)
PP
PD
PJ
Pi
PJ
PD
PD
PD
P
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS
Catalogue
Free . . .
French’s Acting Edition.
Rare Books
French Novels
sjfoog
for
the
Married
Extra Special Catalog tie of
Hooks Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
A Maoriland publican spoke in a Court
recently and moved the Bench almost to tears by
recounting the difficulties he had to contend with.
First of all, he complained that every policeman
on the “bate” was practically a pensioner, and
immediately the supply of free drinks, smokes,
and comfortable suppers showed signs of falling
off raids became painfully frequent. Some of the
police also borrowed small sums of money. If he
got up at 2 a.m., in response to repeated knock-
ings, and admitted a “traveller,” he was sure to
find that the traveller was an amateur detective,
sooled on by theW.C.T.U. or some other pestifer-
ous organisation. If he lay in bed and declined
to open the doer and admit the amateur detective,
an information was laid under that clause of the
Licensing Act which provides that all travellers
must be .accommodated. He had to know all the
prohibition-order people in the whole district, and
occasionally he was fined for refusing an unpro-
hibited person who resembled somebody that was
prohibited, and who, for all he knew to the con-
trary even now, might be the real prohibited
person he said he wasn’t. Then informations were
being continually laid against him by bona-fide
travellers who demanded liquor on Sundays, and
every time he took the bona-fide traveller’s word
that he was bona-fide he fell in, and had his
license endorsed, and was fined for Sunday
trading. He complained bitterly that people who
had filled up with bad grog in the neighboring
prohibited district crossed the imaginary line, and
lay down in his bar parlor, and got drunk on his
premises without having one solitary drink there.
How a policeman wanted his license cancelled
because he had served a woman of “doubtful
character,” which is the newest crime in Maori-
land ; and he declared that unless the police
branded women of doubtful character he had not
sufficient acquaintance with women of doubtful
character to be able to tell them at sight. He
finished up by remarking that he wouldn’t take
up the court’s time any longer. The verdict was
a matter of indifference to him. A woman whom
he refused to serve on account of her apparent
doubtfulness had just got a verdict of £250 against
him for slknder, and he was on his way to the
Bankruptcy Court.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
“ Tahune Linah ” concerning a naval
relic (B. 28/6/’O2)
The Tas. gunpowder-hulk, La Mutine, alias Aladdin,
was sold by the Defence Dept, of the Commonwealth —
not by Tas. Govt. Some little time ago the old ship took
it into her head to leak, and the united effort of Tas-
mania’s standing army was unequal to the task of freeing
her. This was the main reason for the sale. The appear-
ance of the soldiers at the pumps would have broken the
heart of an old shellback. So far as the history of the
vessel goes, Jeffrey, in his very readable book, “A Cen-
tury of our Sea Story,” throws some light on the
error in imagining the Aladdin was the original La
Mutine captured at Santa Cruz in 1797. This vessel was
sold out of the service in 1801. In 1846 Capt. MacArthur,
of Hobart, went to London and bought from
Bennett, a London shipowner, the barque Aladdin,
being assured by the vendor that this was the original
Mutine which carried despatches from Nelson at the
Battle of the Nile to Naples. According to Jeffrey this
was Mutine No. 3. No. 2 was built at Bideford in 1806.
No. 3—the vessel under discussion—still quoting Jeffrey
—was built at Plymouth dockyards in February, ’42.
Bennett bought her after she had been condemned, and
registered her as the Aladdin. The name has been perpetu-
ated, and Mutine No. 7 has been added to the Navy list
recently. Further proof of Aladdin’s English origin is
furnished by the fact that her bolts are stamped with a
broad arrow. The Australian shipping register shows
she was built at Plymouth in 1825, so there is some dis-
crepancy between this date and Jeffrey’s. Mutine
No. 2 took part in the bombardment of Algiers
in 1816. A Mr. Brown of Hobart now dead—
dipped into old records, and years ago gave it out
that the Aladdin was the Mutine of Algiers—nine years
before she was built, according to her register. It seems
that the practice of re-naming vessels is responsible for
the mistakes made, and sentiment filled many gaps in her
story. Re cannon-ball. The writer was offered what
was claimed to be the identical article for 55., but didn’t
take any. At present time, have several cannon-balls
taken from a vessel of no recorded history. Cannon-balls
are “ off,” so far as historical merit goes. However, the
Aladdin was an “ old-timer,” and her true history as a
warship and whaler would, no doubt, make good reading.
RAMEY'S MEDIC A TOR
For the Treatment of Catarrh. Hay Fever,
Bronchitis, Influenza, Catarrhal
Deafness, etc.
Medlcator, with complete treat-
ment, only 101-, post free.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
SfAR novelty company
229,23! COLLINS ST„ MELBOURNE. _J
Reader, do you wish to know how to
make more money, obtain greater
happiness, have better health, and
achieve greater success in life? It is
our business to help others—we are
specialists in this line. Will you permit
us to help you ? It costs you nothing
until we prove what we can do. We
will send you our elegantly illustrated
ONE HUNDRED PAGE BOOK FREE.
This remarkable work thoroughly in-
structs you in the underlying principles
of success in every business and calling;
it tells you how to cure every known
disease and bad habit without the aid of
drugs, medicine, or the surgeon’s knife.
It fully reveals the hidden mysteries of
HYPNOTISM, PER-
SONAL MAGNETISM
MAGNETIC HEAL-
ING, etc. It tells you
how you can quickly
master these sciences
in a few days at your
own. home and use this
mighty power on your
friends and associates
entirely without their
knowledge—new and instantaneous
methods which enable anyone to hypno-
tise quick as a flash. We guarantee
success or forfeit One Thousand Dollars
in gold. This wonderful book has proved
the turning point in the lives of hundreds
of persons who were ready to give up in
despair. Thousands owe their health,
happiness, and financial success to its
teachings. It is full of wonderful secrets
and startling surprises. It will be sent
to any address absolutely free. A i£d.
postal card will bring it. Address,
NEW YORK INSTITUTE of SCIENCE,
Dept. 822, Rochester, N.Y., U.S.A.
AT
HOME
FREE
' I’ll Try IV
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.,
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
CRAIG & AITKEN. N.s. W. Barber’s Supply
House. 680-682 QEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
::**«*-: *
$
PAS**
6R^ d
**a^ YeS
W* atv a , ds .
tC^°
vs* mlds-
cauo"; alvd 0*
c< SV tartoOS '
FRINGES _
ifad&oi'thalßes? Natural Curljs Has,
froi4.,3* <5,d., Bs.6d. t , 7s. Qd-i 8s». 6d;
talO?» 6d, eaclC, j
W* Hi WiGEELM
IfOf WILLIAiyi STREET# (|
rw t»!U
7». 6d;
22in J p.oa-6?>l '
6i.; 21m.* exlrs thick, 183, 6tfi
26i‘n.-,“ 2QJvij26ia.( §xtra thick, '%s&
28in:‘ ( 3Q}i j 30in.v359-J 3QhEJ extras t&TcV % 403.
Our Waits and Tails are Twice 'a# thick as
those sold elsewhere fogT the. same money.
WIGS MADE! TO ORDER.
HAUW7ORK DUTY FREE TO OTHER STATES.
Tbs WORLD-RENOWNED . . .
Professor N. R. FINSEN,
The Great Danish Scientist,
Discoverer of the Wonderful Cure for LUPUS and SKIN
DISEASES by the aid of the Sun’s Rays, has made even
a still more marvellous discovery in the
HAEMATIN - ALBUMIN
TABLETS.
A Cure for Poverty of Blood, Anaemia and
Weakness of the Human System, NO MATTER
THROUGH WHAT CAUSE ARISING, and this Remedy
is now placed on this market by the manufacturers
through their representatives, and is obtainable
From all Chemists.
3s. 6d. per BOX Of 70 TABLETS—I 2 DAYS’ SUPPLY.
■35 YEARS PROVEN EFFICACY.
Take
a^SEED
»*
*•
on
M
ifis ee -
CHEMISTS
OF AU
THBOUCHOurOREATBRiraiN 4 rut COLONIES
IINUM CATHARtICUM Plus (U'U’likgNnNt
us£ COACULINE *
TRANSPARENT CtMENT FOR AU. BROKEN ARTICLES
DRUNK
ENNESS
CURED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
SliTSee my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, igoi, wherein I agree to
accept ioo Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
with- 1 the reach of all. No restrictions, no
h\ p..dermic injections. Full particulars free,
VV. LANGSTON, M.R.c.s.. Bn*,
68 Russell St., Melbourne.


THE A BEAUTIFUL fabric.
Velveteen.
NOTE WELL I—Each Yard of Genuine “LOUIS” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L"0“U“l"S and > n no other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
S. FREEMAN * SONS L!*£!£
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WTNTABD SQUARE, SYDNEY,
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
From
a
Medicinal
Point
of *
View
Hennessy’s
Brandy
is
Unequalled.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
y
r
CIGARETTES
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS. PRICE 4s. 6d.; POSTAGE 6cl.
Sole Distributing Agents —
JEdwards, Dunlop & Co,, Ltd. , Sydney and Brisbane.
THE BULLETIN RECITER
BY EIGHTY (80) With Illustrations by “ Hop,” N. Lindsay, A. J. Eisher, F.
BULLETIN BARDS. D. H. Souter, and H. McCrae. In handsome Cloth, decora
Sole Distributing Agents — PRICE ss. j POSTAGE 4d.
Edwards, Dunlop & Co,, Ltd,, Sydney and Brisbane,
1
SR
RUBEROID is Che iper, Cooler and Lighter than IRON.
-^eroid
V> ROOFING
In Portable Rolls. Ready for Use.
3 FEET WIDE, 24 YARDS LONG,
Cement for seams, also Nails and Washers
are supplied with each Roll of Ruberoid
FREE OF COST.
NOTE!
Among the many imitations of
Ruberoid on the various markets of
the World not one has been able to stand the tests
of Fire, Moisture, or Endurance which Ruberoid
has stood.
IN NEW YORK CITY!
The Department of Buildings has approved the use of
Ruberoid for Roofs and The Board of Fire Underwriters
insures it at the same rate as Metal or Composition Roofs.
IN AUSTRALIA!
The Board of Fire Underwriters insures Ruberoid at the
same rate as shingles, i.e., 1/- % more than slate, etc.
Eurella, Roma (Queensland).
Brisbane, 22nd April, 1902.
Messrs. E. Rich & Coy. Limited,
Dear Sirs, —The following may be of interest to you. _ A
short time ago a large kerosene lamp which was burning
in my dining room was upset upon the floor, and in ar
instant a large portion of the floor was covered with the
burning oil. The floor, as you are aware, is covered witi
RUBEROID which proved to be quite uninflammable. Hac
it not been so, I have little doubt my house would have
been burnt to the ground. Yours truly,
FRED DUNSMURE.
SAFE
SURE
BURR uft
MADE OF STEEL
A PERFECT PULLEY
FOR ALL PURPOSES
Let go the Rope. The Lever does the rest.
No. 2. With J-inch rope, one man can hoist 250 lbs.
Weight, 220 z. Capacity .. .. 600 lbs.
No. 3. With f-inch rope, one man can hoist 300 lbs.
Weight, 4f lbs. Capacity .. .. 800 lbs.
No. 4. With f-ineh rope, one man can hoist 350 lbs
Weight, 6f lbs. Capacity .. .. 1500 lbs
No. 5. With f-inch rope, one man can hoist 400 lbs
Weight, 11 lbs. Capacity .. .. 2000 lbs
No. 6. With J-ineh rope, one man can hoist 450 lbs.
Weight, 17 lbs. Capacity .. .. 2500 lbs.
No. 4}. With f-inch rope, one man can hoist 600 lbs.
Weight, 10 lbs. Capacity .. .. 3000 lbs.
No. 6f. With f-inch rope, one man can hoist 700 lbs.
Weight, 20 lbs. Capacity .. .. 3500 lbs.
No. 6f. With f-inch rope, one man can hoist 850 lbs.
Weight, 28 lbs. Capacity .. ~ 5000 lbs.
The above Weights do Not inolude Rope.
“ We have never seen a lift of simple con-
struction by use of which one man could
raise as many pounds quickly, securely, and
with as complete control as can be done with
The Burr Lift.”
SAFE
SURE
THE BURR LIFT.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
VOL. 23.—N0. 1171.
SATURDAY, JULY 20, 1902.
Prick Sd.
THE DISCOMFITURE OF A GOVERNOR - GENERAL.
My CONS>T/An»T DE.SIFLE HAS
BEEIN jo PLACE ThE office
wh» I filled oh a t>ede3t/^l.
FarEvveu. LETTER of TAE Qov-Qer*.
r\.
I HAVE BEEN APPOINTED TO
The governorship op this
p»ob>LE animal.. T Know
HIS TASTES : PLENTY OF
FRILL AND GOLD LACE,
a tiqht BRIDLE
AND A FIRM
HAND
(§) Ip me re be soc*\e 70
WHOr'X it r'VPs'f HAVE AP-
PEARED A TRIFLE COSTLY
IN 'TEXTURE , ATRIFLE ORNATE
IN bTY LE 0 T WOULD ASK
men TO BELIEVE THAT IT
WAS POR THE HOpiOR OF Tf\Z
SERVICE , AND NOT FOR PER-
SONAL VANITY, THAT I ATTIRED
NVSELF So ELABOfwrBLY.
• IBID.
LPRD K- IT BE HEAVY
ON
CERTAINLY Look NICE-
j c,o Anorsc,«>T
WIT/A THE. Kee.ME.ST
REGRET, BUT, 1 AbSuRG
VOU,hO TIING£ Of?
BITTERNESS OR,
RESENTMENT.
(s)^
I Know now that l FEUf. into an error,
not uncommon in ne,w conmunmES. I set
TO WORK TO X)VERe>VU_D MY SELF , ANO THAT
VMITROOT BEING SUHS of N\Y foundations
and IF , ONE PAY , I FOUND NT-SELF SITTING
ON THE GROUND SURROUNDED BY THE RUINS
OF N\\ OWN IDE AG , I HAYE NO REASON TO
ComPUAtN* 1610 .
I,ORt) K* TMIS lb rv\o&T uN£*PECTtO.
LORO,-fA* FaREVVEIi- ,my noble
STECD that WAS • 1 KNOW NOW
THAT I MISUNDERSTOOD YOU*


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for Tin? Bulletin
Newspaper 00., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £ 1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
IVestralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Half penny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
■SI, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of lid. postage, the subscription
to The ' Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the, burden of the unreasonable
postage —I \d. on a Bulletin of ordinary ‘weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may 'pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the " Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other A Hides, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded •as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade, and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
San Francisco.— L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa.— R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
SATURDAY, JULY 26, 1902.
A Great Surprise from Tasmania.
Among all the different proposals for the
reform, or alleged reform, of the State Con-
stitutions, the brightest, so far, is that of
Tasmanian Premier Lewis. Probably Lewis
didn’t intend to be bright, but, by accident
or otherwise, he got there. Tasmania is a
very small State with a very small State
Parliament—3B members in the Assembly
and 19 in the Council. Just now there is a
mania for reduction, and Tasmania is jeered
at for having one member to every 3000
people or thereabouts. The reform agitation
caught up Premier Lewis and swept him off
his legs, and he began to devise schemes for
further reduction. He thought out the
possibility of an Assembly of 20 members
and a Council of 10, in which latter body, as
the occasional absence of nine members must
always be reckoned upon, one would pre-
sumably be a quorum. And an Upper
House, where the whole legislative body
could be shouted for at a cost of two-and-six
looked so ridiculous, and so perilously like
an approach to the Turkish system, with its
hereditary Legislature of one man, that Lewis
has decided to propose that the two scraps
shall sit together. He can’t quite get rid
of his deep-rooted worship for the dismal old
House of Property, so he doesn’t go so far as
to propose that the combination shall be one
House, in the ordinary sense of the term,
with one franchise. He suggests that 20
members shall be elected on the Assembly
franchise and 10 on the Council franchise,
and these 30 shall meet in one Chamber and
try to look as separate as they can. Never-
theless, Lewis, the last man from whom such
ii thing could be expected, has the honor to
be the first Australian Premier of the pre-
sent day to propose doing away with the bi-
cameral fetish. If he carries his point, his
curious double-barrelled House of Parliament
will almost certainly settle down, some day,
into the single-barrelled condition, and then
a great deal will have been done towards the
simplification of the legislative machine.
* * * •
So far an exceeding conservatism, an un-
reasoning adhesion to old forms—in many
cases imperfectly understood, and a regret-
table inability to leave the old furrow have
characterised all attempts at State reform.
The Australias were, like England itself,
governed at one time by a single House —
the only thing that was the matter with it
was that it was the wrong kind of House.
The United States began with one House,
and the other was only added because the
intense jealousies of the small States made
them insist on having a House where all
States were equal, while the larger States
insisted on having also a House in which
their greater populations would be adequately
represented. The empire’s bi-cameral sys-
tems grew out of the idea that a certain titled
class had an inherent right to legislate—-
hence the necessity of a House to put it in ;
or out of the idea that the Crown’s nominees
should sit by themselves, so that they could
not be voted down by the common, pestilent,
objectionable delegates of the mob, or have
to associate with farmers and similar cattle ;
or out of the superstition that a small wealthy
class should have special elected represen-
tatives apart from the vulgar herd. The
habit lingers, even, as in N.S.W., when the
wealthy class has ceased to be specially re-
presented, and there are no royal nominees
and no hereditary nobility. When all the
reasons for an Upper House are gone, and
its power is gone, and no one respects it any
longer, it stays on like the fifth wheel of a
coach or any other lingering relic.
» * • *
In Canada, six out of the eight divisions
have one State House of Parliament only.
In the United States the two-House system
still hangs on, but in an increasing number
of the States both Houses are gradually
becoming little more than an excrescence,
while the power drifts into the hands of
popularly-elected Conventions—literally one-
House Parliaments elected at irregular
intervals. It is the popularly-elected Con-
vention which drafts a new Constitution,
and the two-House State Legislature has no
voice whatever regarding its acceptance. In
most of the States the new Constitution
may be legally put in force on the authority
of the Convention only, but, as a rule, it
is also put to the popular vote. And a State
Constitution, so-called, is really a huge code
of laws. Anything outside of it the State
Legislature can touch or alter, but in
many cases there is little of any great
importance outside it. In many cases
even the blessed privilege of running into
debt is prohibited to the Legislature. As
regards 39 States out of 45, the miserable,
bi-cameral Legislature is only allowed to
meet once in two years, and in 29 of the
States it is only allowed to sit for a certain
time (from 40 to 90 days) when it does meet.
In most of the States it requires an absolute
majority of both Houses before any measure
can be passed. In a number of them, the
Constitution comes up for revision by a
popularly-elected Convention at stated in-
tervals. The Referendum is applied to a
multitude of subjects, and has been a popular
institution for over 60 years, and the Initia-
tive exists in a few places. The Upper
Houses of the U.S. Legislatures represent
no special class ; they are merely survivals.
All these things are bad for the bi-cameral
tradition, as it is supposed to exist among
English-speaking peoples.
* * • *
The great bulk of British colonial Legisla-
tures consist of one body only—the trouble
is that, in most cases, it is a nominee body,
or else partly nominee and partly elected
on a narrow suffrage. When popular
suffrage arrives, however, the old nominee
body is retained, and the result is that the
live snake drags his dead, cast-off skin behind
him, where it is neither use nor ornament.
The venerable and decayed excrescence will
be abandoned some day, but the process is
very slow. But even Britain, despite its
love of tradition, has blessed intervals of
reason. When it created the London County
Council, to rule a population 20 times that
of Tasmania, no one dreamt of putting a top-
heavy upper deck on it, and it does its work
quite as well without. And despite the
tired old theory about the value of a Second
Chamber in “ checking hasty legislation,” no
one has propounded the theory that the
British possessions which are run by one
House are any more hasty than those with
two. Upper Houses, as a matter of fact, are
divided into two classes; those that are
powerful and are hated as obstacles to every
kind of progress, and those that are power-
less, like the Legislative Councils of N.S.W.
and Maoriland, and are only despised. They
may be also divided into necessary evils,
which are few, and unnecessary evils, which
are many. The Federal Senate is probably
an evil, but it was necessary as a concession
to the weaker States. Some day when
Australia gets a more complete form of union,
when its debts, railways, and educational
systems are taken over by the Common-
wealth Government, when its population is
more evenly distributed, and its unwieldy
States are sub-divided, the country may be
able to do without its necessary evil.
* * * *
If Premier Lewis is able to carry out his
scheme he will, at least, have achieved some-
thing original. A purely-elective House,
with two suffrages, is quite out of the
common order of things. But there is
always the strong probability, almost the
certainty, that the suffrages will ultimately
boil down to one. Meanwhile, the one
House will do good service in the way of
destroying a pernicious old legend by showing
that its lonesomeness doesn’t lead to the
much-feared “ hasty legislation.” JSTo better
place than Tasmania could be found for re-
introducing the uni-cameral system and
breaking up the legend, for the idea of any
Tasmanian Legislature being hasty under
any circumstances is as absurd as to
suspect a sheep of conspiracy, or a
caterpillar of ferocity, sedition, and habitual
drunkenness. Anyhow, Premier Lewis is
hardly a free agent. The public calls, or is
alleged to call, for reduction of members. An
Upper House of 10 members, when one of
them was in the chair, and two were ill with
influenza, and two more had paired, would be
a gaudy sight while the other five went goutily
on to a division and two tellers were appointed
each side. And an Assembly of 20 members
would only muster about nine and the
Speaker on quiet nights, and when the
House went into committee, and the Speaker
retired with dignity, and the Chairman of
Committees took the chair, and the unruly
member had been suspended for the rest of
the sitting, there would be only the four
Ministers and their one follower, and the
Leader of the Opposition and his one ad-
herent left. The pomp of Responsible
Government can’t be kept up under such
conditions, any more than one man can form
himself into a hollow square and mobilise
himself as a reserve at the same time. Either
the forms of Responsible Government or the
bi-cameral system must needs go overboard.
The Unemployed.
An unemployed conference has been sitting at
Sydney, about the saddest thing in conferences
any city could produce. In N.S. Wales an incre-
dible proportion of the population has been sup-
ported for the last few years by the expenditure
of loan money ; probably the proportion thus
employed and their families and dependents now
amounts to over one-tenth of the population.
And yet there are unemployed. There are State
labor bureaux. State relief works (paid for out of
loans), State shelters, homes, labor farms—in fact,
there is almost everything that can be imagined
for the poor in the way of useless or almost useless
work, the payment for which is left, as far as
possible, to posterity. The great art of digging a
hole and then filling it up again has been carried
almost to the last possible extreme on their
behalf. Almost everything in the shape of
an lOU that could be done for the un-
employed has been done, or is being done.
And still there are unemployed. The conference
of these unfortunates has just laid it down
as an axiom “that an Act should be passed
through the Legislature establishing the right of
all male residents to employment.” The Bul-
letin fails to see that the Act would do any good
unless accompanied by a scheme for supplying the
employment ; the mere legislative statement that
a man is entitled to work amounts to no more, by
itself, than the statement that he is entitled to be
Emperor of China. Yet as regards the right
itself, The Bulletin has no doubt whatever. It
is the business of every Government to so adjust
things that every person who wants to work shall
be able to get work. Otherwise, it is a failure.
Of course, no Government can be so mathemati-
cally accurate that nobody shall ever be unem-
ployed. But it should be able to adjust things so
that no capable person need be out of work long
enough to sink into actual want—that there shall
be no chronic unemployed.
» * * *
Obviously there are only two possibilities in the
case. To make more work the country must
either produce more raw material for export—that
being about the only thing it exports, or it must
produce more manufactured goods for its own use,
and consequently import less. It can’t have any
great increase of manufactures without importing
less; if the foreign supplies remain the same and
the local supplies greatly increase the only result
will be an accumulation of goods on hand that no
one will have money to buy. To try to get over
the difficulty by producing more raw material for
export has been tried for many years, and has
failed. N.S.W. has aided, bonused and fostered
its “ great producing industries ” with subsidised
railways, roads, low freights, cheap land, cheap
money and all manner of aids, and whereas the
exports of locally-grown commodities, apart from
gold—the export of everything else that could be
dragged off the surface, or the places
beneath the surface, of the land —brought in
£lB 12s. lOd. per inhabitant in 1883, it brought in
less than £l3 per inhabitant in 1900. The differ-
ence—practically £6 annually per inhabitant, or
£24 per annum (9s. 2d. per week) for every family
of four—accounts for a fearful amount of
want and misery. The struggle to solve
the unemployed problem by the increase of
production for export has been long and terribly
costly, and it has failed with a great and abject
failure. Drought, poor land, the immense distance
to the British market, and the low prices obtain-
able there, have beaten the producing industry
badly. The extra employment, if the experience
of the last 20 years counts for anything, can’t be
obtained under present conditions in that
direction, unless it is employment of a wretchedly
ill-paid character.
¥ * * *
The other resource is for N.S.W. to manufacture
for itself a few millions of the £27,000,000 worth
of goods it now imports. The work is available,
the market is available—it is right here at our
doors. The labor is available; the unemployed
are always with us, and their increase is the most
hopeless problem of the day. Already manufac-
tures are worth a great deal more in cash value to
N.S.W. than agriculture is, but even now there
are not nearly enough of them to absorb the sur-
plus population, and not one-third enough to
supply the local demand. There has been a
surplus population for many years—a population
supported out of loans; and local industries have
always been in an insufficient state. Manufactures
constitute theonlybranchof N.S.W. industry which
shows any serious possibility of expansion nowa-
days ; since 1892 they have increased in value as
much as the pastoral, agricultural, dairying,
mining, timber, and fishing industries put together.
They have had, all along, a certain amount of Pro-
tection ; with a little more the results would
probably have been better still. That is the only
direction in which there is any visible hope for
the unemployed. Belief works, or public works
that are of a semi-relief character, are merely
temporary aids that sink the country deeper in
debt. They leave a worse trouble behind in the
shape of more interest to pay. They have a
pauper atmosphere about them which is had for
the self-respect of the community. And they tend
to make the Australians a race of pick-and-shovel
men—like the Kaffir in South Africa, or the old-
time nigger in the Southern States—a class which
only knows the coarsest and least remunerative
variety of work—which is half-brother to the
horse, and nearly related to the crane and the
sand-scoop.
• * • •
Even the most virulent Freetrader, if he were
crowded into a corner and put on his solemn oath,
would probably admit these propositions :
(1) If (say) £10,000,000 worth of the goods that are now
imported were manufactured locally there would be more
employment.
(2) If £10,000,000 worth less goods were imported there
would be less money sent away in payment for imports.
(3) Seeing that the United States can export nearly
twice as much as it imports it doesn’t necessarily follow
that by reducing imports N.S.W. would also reduce ex-
ports.
The Ereetrade argument, however, is that if
imports were compulsorily reduced by a tariff
which, in some lines, was absolutely prohibitive
(no Australian State has tried a prohibitive tariff-
yet) the local products which took the place of
these imports would cost more, therefore the pro-
ceeding isn’t worth while. And if wages'were
cut down so low as to make it quite certain that
the local workman, in the early stages of a new
industry, before he had become an expert, and be-
fore economy of production had been brought
to its highest pitch, could hold hi 3 own, even
against the fierce cutting of prices that the
importer always resorts to when he sees a market
slipping away from him—well, that isn’t worth
while either. Relief works, built out of loan
money, can always, under aFreetrade, or anything
approaching a Freetrade, system, beat manu-
factures badly. Manufactures have to pay their
way from the start; relief works are nearly all
subsidy. Even in the matter of railways, which
are sometimes relief works and sometimes not,
N.S.W. can show a number of lines on which the
subsidy more than equals the total earnings. If
the Freetrade creed refused to subsidise railways,
relief works, and agricultural and pastoral indus-
tries, as well as manufactures, it would at least be
consistent. As matters stand it demands that the
unsubsidised factory shall hold its own in the
labor market against other industries on which the
refreshing breeze of competition doesn’t blow, and
pay vastly heavier railway freights, and, if it is
in a municipality, which is usually the case, pay
its own local rates for roads and so on, and also
pay its share towards maintaining the roads of
the agriculturist who, in N.S.W., is almost
always outside of local government, and isn’t
locally taxed to maintain his own roads. New
South Wales to-day is probably, in the strictest sense
of the term, almost the most pauper-ridden white
man’s country on earth—reckoning the poor in its
asylums and gaols, the unemployed, and the vast
mass of people who are maintained out of loan
funds on works which are not expected to pay,
and which are, at least in considerable part, of a
relief character.
* * * *
There is no visible way by which N.S.W. can
manufacture £10,000,000 more goods per annum
within a very short time, and thereby find work
for another 60,000 hands, unless £10,000,000 of
imports are shut out by a more prohibitive tariff
than any Australia has yet possessed. The State
certainly can’t afford to buy £9,000,000 worth more
goods, and its present imports as well; therefore
it can’t make any great increase in local produc-
tion while the imports continue on the present
huge scale. And any attempt to make duties
high enough to seriously reduce imports is de-
nounced by the N.S. W. delegation in the Federal
Parliament on the ground that it will “reduce
imports ” and “ destroy revenue.” The Free-
trade Party claims that duties should be so
low as not to interfere with imports, and then
they will produce revenue. It also says that
it is the buyer—the N.S.W. citizen—who pays
the duty, be it high or low ; on which basis, when
a million pounds worth of goods dutiable at 6 per
cent, are imported, he pays £1,000,000 for the
goods and £50,000 for the duty. It might, per-
haps, be better for him to make the £1,000,000
worth of goods (which would give employ-
ment to about 5000 or 6000 people) and
have the £1,000,000 in wages, and pay the
£50,000 in direct taxation, but the Freetrade
party says it wouldn’t. While N.S.W. supports
that party it is difficult to see what practical con-
solation it can offer to the unemployed, who say,
quite rightly, that it is the duty of the Govern-
ment-to find them work. The Government has
made great and costly efforts to foster the agricul-
tural and pastoral industries, and Nature has so
far got ahead of it that they produce hardly any-
thing more in the gross, and vastly less per in-
habitant, than they did 20 years ago. The
strongest Government can’t struggle against the
fact that, whereas each acre under cultivation in
N.S.W. in 1882 produced £74s. sd. worth of crop,
it only turned out £2 Bs. Bd. worth in 1901.
Mining is under a cloud, and supports a diminish-
ing population. The State can’t make all the un-
employed policemen. It can’t put them on the
land unless it gives them the land and seed and
tools, also rations to support them till the crop
arrives ; and apart from the fact that a man who
knows nothing of agriculture would fail even under
these conditions, all this is a system of bonuses
and artificial coddling which is quite hostile to the
Freetrade tradition. It can’t borrow £10,000,000
every year to keep them going on public works-
even the Owe’Sullivan has his limitations. To
absorb the unemployed in manufactures it is
necessary to nearly double the present N.S.W.
output in one act, and that can’t be done
without shutting out an enormous quantity of
imported produce, and N.S.W. has sent to
the Federal Parliament a body of men whose
votes steadily block every attempt to shut out im-
ports. If the unemployed would pledge them-
selves never, under any circumstances, to ask for
more than 18s. a week, no doubt sufficient manu-
factures to absorb them might start with very
little Protection —cheap labor, if it is only cheap
enough, and reasonably skilful at the same time,
doesn’t require Protection. But, as things are, a
dead wall rises up in front everywhere.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Victorian Reform Bill.
Premier Irvine, of Victoria, has issued his con-
stitutional Reform Bill. It isn’t an ideal measure,
but if Irvine stands by it—if he insists on the
whole Bill and only allows alteration where it
further liberalises the measure, he will be the
greatest Parliamentary reformer that Victoria has
yet possessed. Irvine is a cold, emotionless man,
as free from heat or rash enthusiasm as a tomb-
stone on a cold night, and he probably cares about
as little for reform as anybody else in the Legis-
lature. But circumstances have deposited the
reform movement, like a deserted infant, on his


bleak and unpromising doorstep, and in his cold,
bleak way Irvine looks, so far, like doing his duty
by the infant. The leading features of his scheme
are these:
Seven Ministers.
Assembly of 56 members.
A Minister may sit temporarily in the House to which
he does not belong' for the purpose of explaining or
speaking upon a measure.
Council of 28 members.
Every male or female ratepayer to have a vote at
Council elections.
Every male ratepayer to be eligible to sit in the Council.
If either House refuses to pass a Bill which has been
twice passed by the other, both Houses may be dissolved
simultaneously.
If the newly-elected Houses fail to agree there may be a
Joint Sitting of the two Houses, and its vote shall decide.
There is no provision for payment of M’s.L.C., so
the chances of the Legislative Council becoming a
chamber of a red revolutionary character are
remote. _ But still the new Council, if Irvine
carries his measure, will be an enormous advance
on the old one. Hitherto, by reason of the
property qualification, only about 1000 or 2000
persons have been eligible to sit in the Victorian
Upper House —all rich landlords, and almost all
Tories of the most bigoted variety. Under the
new order of things 130,000 men will be eligible,
and if Victoria can’t find 28 reasonably liberal,
intelligent, progressive men among that mul-
titude, even without payment, it must be, to
a great extent, Victoria’s own fault. The
foul insult by which nearly 99 per cent, of the
people who make the Council are declared to be
political lepers and outcasts, unfit to sit in the
House of their own creation—by which the thing
that is made disqualifies the maker-—is to be
removed. That is to say, it is to be removed if
the Irvine Government stands firm. The As-
sembly will probably pass the measure as it is.
The Council will probably pass the clauses which
cut down the size of Parliament—the mere money-
saving clauses —and will q uite as probably reject
the proposed amendment of its own constitution.
And, if Irvine accepts half the Bill, the chance of
getting the other half —the Council-reform half,
which is incalculably more important than any
mere reduction of members—may not come again
for 20 years. But if the tombstone man insists on
the whole Bill or none at all—if he tells the Council
that it must accept the reform idea or take the respon-
sibility of causing the loss of the reduction clauses
also, and expose itself to the fury of Kyabram
and the cold blast of B. Goddard —then he, most
likely, can carry his point. It is mostly a ques-
tion of Irvine’s sincerity. The Reform Bill itself
doesn’t prove anything absolutely definite in that
direction. Any man can introduce a valuable bill
and then drop the most valuable part of it. Sup-
posing Irvine sees the matter through, he will be
Victoria’s greatest reformer on very easy terms.
He came into office when every political circum-
stance was shunting him violently along the road
to reform. He can bring about a vast political re-
generation with less difficulty than any of his pre-
decessors. The demand for economy, and the pre-
cedent of the newly-established Federal Senate, as
showing what kind of Upper House Australia
really demands, are in his favor. The great and
indignant Age is with him. The Kyabram pro-
gramme is with him—at least in part —and B.
Goddard is howling like a demon in the back-
ground. The Hour has come—and the Icicle.
♦
The Senate.
When the Federal Senate has finished making
"suggestions” for the reduction or abolition of
customs duties, and the House of Representatives
begins to consider these suggestions, a great many
interesting things may happen, though, on the
other hand, it is much more likely that nothing in
particular will happen. As a rule nothing in par-
ticular happens. The Senate has no power to
alter money Bills ; it can only suggest that the
House of Reps, should alter them. (“Suggestion”
is very good when both parties are nearly of the
same way of thinking, but if one party is a Holy
Roman teetotaller and the other is an Orangeman
who keeps a public-house, it isn’t likely that any
suggestions one party can make to the other,
either about drink or religion, will lead to agree-
ment.) If the House of Reps, refuses to agree
with the Senate’s suggestions the Senate can either
abandon the suggestions or throw out the Tariff Bill
bodily. In the present case the Senate’s ideas and
the ideas of theßepresentatives are so widely diver-
gent that it becomes a question as to which House
will rule—the Lower House which represents the
people on a population basis, or the Upper House
in which one man’s vote in Tasmania counts for
eight times as much as one man’s vote in N.S.W.
If the House of Reps, doesn’t insist on its tariff,
then the Senate has asserted its dominant position
in matters of finance, and the Treasurer should
sit in that House instead of in the Representa-
tives, and the Financial Statement should be
delivered there, and the fiction that the Lower
House—the People’s House as distinguished from
the House of States —has chief control of money
matters should be abandoned. The Senate’s
amendments are calculated to greatly reduce
the producing power of a tariff which is already
too small for the States’ requirements, and if the
Senate is allowed to cut down revenue, and yet
leave to the other House the work of making the
diminished revenue cover requirements, the
position of the Representatives will be ridiculous
and wholly undesirable. Of course, there is the
curious and difficult situation that if the
House of Representatives insists on its tariff, the
Senate may reject the whole measure, leaving the
Commonwealth with no tariff at all, and before the
deadlock clauses of the Constitution can be put in
force—these clauses move very slowly—the two
years within which the Constitution says that a
tariff must be passed will have expired. And
nobody knows exactly what will follow. But
if the House of Representatives surrenders its
rights because the Senate can bring about chaos in
the attempt to usurp an authority to which it has
no just claim, the House of Representatives
will make a mistake which it may take a
century to repair. Its business is to assert its
claim, as the House which most fairly represents
the people, to predominate in matters of finance.
If the Senate likes, in defence of an illegal demand
for financial predominance, to bring about one of
the biggest deadlocks in history, and thereby
incur a measure of public obloquy which may lead
to its own destruction, the House of Representa-
tives has no call to sacrifice itself in order that it
may save the Senate from publicly disgracing itself.
If it becomes a question whether the Senate shall
make itself an object of execration through
attempting to do wrong, or whether the other
House shall save it from execration by allowing it
to do wrong without protest, there should be no
room for doubt or hesitation in the matter. There
can be no deadlock if the Lower House allows the
Upper one to have absolute control, but peace
would be too expensive at the price.
♦
A Harassed Community and a Tram Co.
Melbourne’s policy of leasing its tramways to a
company for a long term of years is bearing fruit.
The fruit consists mostly of the apple of discord
hung on the tree of recrimination. When the
tramways were constructed, the cable system was
about the most up-to-date in the world ; now it is
out of date except in precipitous localities, where
the cable car’s capacity for taking hills that neither
the steam nor the electric vehicle can look at
still keeps it to the front. The lines then planned
out were supposed to be all that Melbourne could
possibly want for a generation, andtheco. undertook
to work these lines for a certain term under certain
conditions ; now Melbourne finds that it has out-
grown the limited system, and a multitude of new
lines are wanted. When the agreement was first
made, the system of charging everybody 3d., and
carrying him five miles or 100 yards, as the case
might be, seemed reasonable enough ; the idea of
cutting up the immensely long threepenny sections
into short penny ones only grew into popularity
in later years. So now things have settled down
into a sort of dialogue between Melbourne and
its Tramway Co., the method of the dialogue
being after this fashion :
The Harassed Commmunity : “As owners of the tram-
ways we would like to convert them into an electric
system at our own expense. It won’t interfere with your
profits in any way.”
The Teamway 00. : “It wouldn’t cost us anything l , of
course, but it would put us to some trouble. And our
lease expires in 14 years. The present system will last
our time. Of course, if you gave us an extension of our
lease it would he different.”
Haeassed Community : “We want to extend the
system.”
Teamway Co.: “We won’t work any extensions unless
you give us an extension of our lease. You can’t work
them separately with much profit; extensions that would
pay handsomely when worked as parts of the city system
would be a poor investment, or even a dead loss, when
worked as 10 or 12 disconnected suburban scrap-lines.
This immovable attitude on our part is always liable to
lead to an extension of our lease.”
Haeassed Community: “If we extend your lease the
same trouble may arise again before the second lease is
expired.”
Tramway Co.: “ Then we would want you to keep on
extending our lease. You can’t extend our lease too
often.”
Haeassed Community: “We want the threepenny
sections subdivided into penny sections. Threepenny sec-
tions are out of date and inconvenient—so much so that
the old dead-and-gone omnibus has been resurrected on
the penny principle and is running against the tramways.
It is a disgrace to Melbourne that what was once the most
up-to-date tramway system on earth' should become so
antiquated that this antediluvian vehicle can come
back to compete with it.”
Tramway Co. : You can make any new arrangements
you like when our lease expires 14 years hence. You
can’t expect us to worry much about the up-to-dateness
of things when we have only 14 years to run. It would
be quite different if we had an extension of our lease.”
Harassed Community : “ And if we give you an exten-
sion on condition that you accept these improvements,
what guarantee will we have that the service won’t
become antiquated again? New improvements are
always being devised.”
Tramway Co. : “ Every time there is a new improve-
ment that you want us to take up, just come along and
see us about an extension of the lease.”
Harassed City : “ Look here—what will you take to
get out?”
Tramway Co. : “ About twice as much as the thing is
worth.”
That imaginary dialogue pretty nearly represents
the situation. The negotiation was never put
into actual words, but the general understanding
is to the above effect. So the State is seriously
considering whether it will build thirteen
detached suburban electric tramways or street
railways, which will have to be run as separate
enterprises at probably 50 per cent, more cost
than if they were connected with the city trams
and worked as one business. And Minister of
Railways Thomas Bent is “seeing gentlemen”
about “ concessions. ’ ’
4
The New Ireland.
The cables from S’Africa —in spite of the existing
censorship—are now obliged to announce the
existence of grave discontent among the Boers in
the Transvaal and the Orange State. In Vryheid
district the. inhabitants objeet to being transferred
to Natal. Around Bloemfontein the stalwarts of
the Boer cause are striving to keep alive Repub-
lican ideas by the wearing of the old Boer
flag and by making life a well-deserved misery
to the villainous and traitorous “Burgher
Scouts” who changed sides during the late
war. One commandant at least has been
urging his men to keep in mind their national
existence as Transvaalers. So much comes
through, in spite of the censorship ; and there is
no news at all of any Boers singing “ Rule
Britannia.” It is to the last degree unfortunate
that this should be so. Having admitted the
force of necessity, and surrendered their national
flags, the Boers would best study their own
interests now by submitting to the inevitable, and
trusting to the early grant of Home Rule as pro-
viding them with an independence in all but
name. The Boers are not, however, (as the Jingoes
have just lately been misrepresenting them), a
highly-educated, philosophical, unprejudiced, and
exceedingly generous people. A good sturdy
race, truly, but not the combination of magna-
nimity, wisdom, and foresight which the
Jingo of June, 1902, would have us believe.
It is inevitable, therefore, that there should be
bitterness, and hatred, and conspiracy on their
part against the British, that they should remem-
ber the horrors of the concentration camps and
the glories of many sturdily-fought battles, and
should still cherish, with that tenacious firmness
which is the chief characteristic of Dutch races,
hatred of the victor and hopes of a separate
national existence. They would be more than
human in charity and in wisdom if it were
otherwise. England has taken on her shoul-
ders a new Ireland, and must go through, in
Africa, with all the terrible work of 1798 on the
Irish hills—with what result it is impossible to
say. By a miracle of patience and firmness the
result may be honestly declared happy—a couple
of centuries hence.
Micawber Australis.
The following sentences are taken from the lead-
ing article in the sober-minded and perfectly
serious Brisbane Courier (11/7/’O2). Speaking of
the two successive half-million deficits it says:
We only mention this to show the difficulties which
have to be faced. But the Government has a duty to
perform. Ends must be brought together. Shale it be
DONE BY STERNLY ECONOMISING OR BY BORROWING?
The last sentence isn’t intended as shrieking
comedy—the Courier doesn’t frivol in its leader
columns. In England, or in any sanely financed
community, such a remark would probably appeal
to the public sense of humor ; and grave and
eminent financial authorities would laugh
hilariously as they saw the editor go by, because
every time they saw him they would be reminded
of the joke of the century. The editor who calls
borrowing a making of ends to meet —who seriously
discusses whether the floating liability left at
the close of the year should, or should
not, be manfully paid off by turning it into a per-
manent liability—who propounds it as quite a
possible alternative that the country should get
out of debt by getting into another debt of the
same size—such a person is hardly possible in any
English-speaking country bar Australia. In Aus-
tralia he is more than possible, and more thari
probable; he is a permanent institution. The
habit of handing out the I 0 U, and remarking
that that liability, thank God, is at last settled,
has taken such deep root that an Australian
journalist can ask sternly, in big type, whether
his State is going to let things drift, or manfully
borrow enough to pay its debts, and he can do it
without raising a smile. About £9,000,000 of
Australia’s permanent or floating debts were
accumulated in this way. Australia is quiteaccus-
tomed to the situation.
4
The Quiraing- ?
Warships were sent in search of the steamer
Quiraing, only when she was 28 days out from
Newcastle to Dunedin, coal-laden, with 22 souls
(but no fashionable passengers) aboard. The
hesitancy and delay in taking any expensive action
in regard to the missing vessel is in accordance
with all usual precedents when only the lives of
seamen are concerned. When the Quiraing was
“missing” some days* the steamer South Aus-
tralian was sent to Dunedin to fill the coal
charter which the Quiraing had undertaken
(i that couldn’t wait), and, incidentally, to keep a
look-out for the missing vessel. That that was
only an incidental part of her mission is shown by
the fact that the South Australian left Newcastle
on July 9 and reached Port Chalmers on July 15.
A coal cargo, it is plain, must not be seriously
delayed. It was not until July L 9 that the
decision was come to to send two warships in the
track of the Quiraing. It would be interesting to
know whether the real reason for this vague, half-
hearted effort is the fact that there are no passen-
gers aboard; or the conviction that the Qui-
raing has not been disabled but has foundered.
On this point a cable from Maoriland, published
in the S. M. Herald, says :
Mr.KiNG, who, until the present trip of the Quiraing,
had charge of her engine-room, stated in an interview to-
day that her engines were first-class, and he thought that
a breakdown in that quarter was most improbable,
though he admitted that her propeller might have gone
amiss. The Quiraing was a good sea boat, but he did not
like the feel of her when she was loaded down as she was
sometimes.
And a description of the Quiraing (Sydney
D.T.)reads:
The Quiraing was imported by the old A.S.N. 00. for
the Queensland trade, and after that company amal-
gamated with the Queensland Shipping 00. she was sold,
and employed in the island and other trades. She is an
iron screw steamer, with a net register of 653 tons, and
gross measurement of 1166 tons, having a length of
220 ft. 2in., beam of 31ft. 9in., and depth of 19ft. 9in.
She was built in 1882, and is at present owned by a
Brisbane syndicate, being this voyage under charter to
Mr. Sneddon, of this city.
The Quiraing, it is stated by the S.M. Herald
of June 23, carried 1100 tons of coal cargo out of
Newcastle.
4.
Hopetoun’s Pedestal.
“ In the good old days, in the days of old,
It was crozier of wood and bishop of gold ;
But now we have changed that law so good
Into crozier of gold and bishop of wood.”
Such a change our ex-Governor-General proposed
to make for us. “I intended to set up a pedestal.”
A better knowledge and apprehension of affairs
would have realised that the Commonwealth is
the pedestal. That uplifts the Governor in
the eyes of the world, and he can no more add on
a foot to the height of it than a cubit to his own
stature. The pedestal contemplated would have
been an absurdity. Powder and lace and buttons
and frills, however artistically piled up, would
not have saved it from contempt. An intelligent
democracy has no use for those commodities. The
Governor himself is an anachronism, not perhaps
to be dispensed with for a while, and to be treated
with a proper respect. But a royalty-apeing.
Oriental monarch, no ! Australia has not herself
to blame for the wrong notion which has got
about. It came with Carrington to N.S.W.
And Carrington came in a queer time. When
his appointment was announced, that gentleman
in Australia who knows most about these things
observed, “ Thank Gop ! Government House
will at last be clear of bailiffs. ” Actually, so poor
had Colonial Governorship become. With him
the chimneys smoked, and the cellars hummed
again. Carrington made a bit of a precedent,
though he didn’t talk about a pedestal. “At
Home” they did not understand the precedent
very well. It appeared that the main desire
of Australians was for a peer, and a young,
bright, free-spending peer. Truth is, "before
Carrington, we had peers and sons of peers,
a half-a-dozen of them, and do not hold the
memory of one to-day in less than contempt.
Australians want a man for a Governor, and
Hopetoun made his little bit of popularity or
fame when he tried to play the man—when knock-
ing about in free intercourse with all sorts of Aus-
tralian people, trying, as it seemed, to get the
hang of Australian affairs, the bent of the Aus-
tralian mind, and not when trussed up for the
delectation of Toorak. We did not hanker after the
moleskins and felt hat again. The jackarooing was
done with. But matured intellect, with the
advantage of experience gained, was expected,
and instead of that there came the ex-Lord
Chamberlain with tlie pedestal. And the puzzle
which even the farewell letter does not explain is,
why was it expected that Australia should pay
for the pedestal ? Australian democracy will
recognise no perpetual obligation to keep up a
cheap imitation of royalty. Let lords keep their
pedestal; and we will keep our cash.
4
Mr. Chamberlain Takes a Back Seat.
It is an important development for Australian
nationalism that Mr. Chamberlain has had to
give place to Mr. Balfour in the English Cabinet
re-arrangement Lord Salisbury's exit from the
political stage has long been foreseen, and Mr.
Chamberlain used to assume, with or without justi-
fication, the position and privilege of the heir-ap-.
parent to the Premiership. That gave him great
authority. Now he is simply a Cabinet member
with no promotion even remotely in sight, and
connected in public rumor with hostility to
the Court (which to a Conservative politician
is a most damaging position). Bo it is
safe to say that Joseph Chamberlain will not
be so bumptious in the future as in the past.
A few months ago he advocated an Imperial
Federation drawing “ the colonies ” closer to their
mother-in-law, though in doing so he had to
directly flout Lord Salisbury. That is not
likely to be repeated, for, if attempted again, it
would probably lead to the retirement of Mr.
Chamberlain ; a politician who has had to sub-
mit to being passed over must tune his song to a
humble lay afterwards. All this will be of dis-
tinct benefit to Australia. The supremacy, of Mr.
Chamberlain in the English Cabinet would have
involved constant Imperialistic encroachments'
on our self-governing rights. These might—
possibly would—have been submitted to'; or
they might have ‘precipitated a separation
for which the time is perhaps hardly ripe.
In either case they would have led to
definite injury. Mr. Balfour, who now riles
in the Conservative camp, has a strong sympathy
with the ideas of the Liberal party on “the,
Colonies”—that they should, as far as possible, be.
left to themselves to develop in their own way.
Every student of international history will agree
that that is the best, both for Australia and for
England. It leaves us to work out our destiny in
our own way, and helps to make it possible that,
when the inevitable national separation does
come, it will be an entirely amicable one.
Thb dinner given by King Edward to 550,000 of -
the London poor is a whole volume of common- •
tary on what poverty means in England. When
one-tenth of the population of the largest and
richest capital on earth are so poor that they are .
glad to accept a gratis meal it looks bad for the
richest capital on earth. All the glitter and ;
pomp and affluence of the west end of London,
the magnificence of the “stately homes of
England,” the splendid hospitality and lavish
charity of its rich landlords, the gorgeousness of
its Hopetouns and Beauchamps, and much larger
magnates—all these are only possible through the
abject poverty of the huge majority of the'
population. Even in a rich country there isn’t
so much money that any man can even be as
rich as Hopetoun (who is still a comparatively
humble sample of the British plutocrat) without
many others living all their lives on the confines
of starvation to make up for it. Of every 1000
persons in the United Kingdom, 939 die practically
penniless—that is to say, the most they own is a
few poor sticks of furniture worth a pound or two,
and their well-worn clothes. An appalling pro- ‘
portion of the people of the large cities (about
one-fourth in some cases) live in one-room houses—
a whole family in a room. In Scotland, it is reck-
oned that 22 per cent of the whole population—
city and country —lives a whole family in a room.
The people who are supposed to live permanently '
on the confines of starvation —who practically
never see more than one meal ahead, and whose
one meal is often a long distance ahead—are
commonly estimated at 8,000,000. One square
meal for half-a-million of them at Coronation-time
is something, certainly, but it’s a long time
between Coronations.
♦
The present strike of coal-miners at Outtrim
(Vic.) affords the strongest argument possible for ■
compulsory arbitration. The Unionists objected .
to three men as “ undesirable ” mates and refused
them admission to the Coal Miners’ Union on the •
ground that they showed themselves traitors to
Unionism by taking work at the McEvoy mine, at
Eldorado, during a strike. The coal co., per
contra, says the three are sober, honest, competent
men who have never worked at “scab” rates, and
that the miners, in refusing them admission to
their Union and in throwing the mine idle
by declining to work alongside them, are dis-
tinctly infringing trade-union rights. Now, if the
company’s version is correct , it could take its case
to any Arbitration Court with the certainty of the
Unionists being ordered to resume work and
admit the three undesirables. And, in addition,
the coal co. would recover heavy damages from
the Union. So the Employers’ Federation, which '
persistently rails against compulsory arbitration
as an unnecessary interference and a piece of
socialistic legislation, must either consider it
mostly has a bad case or else it doesn’t believe in
law’norder, and prefers strikes, lock-outs, and
similar violent methods.
♦
Nobody recognises better than the Labor parties
do that any fool and any fraud can throw money
around by the handful, and that really the first
thing to see to is, that the man gets the money >
honestly. So they gibe at the “ philanthropist
who first racks or robs the poor and then scatters
a percentage of his pence among them, with the-
reporters looking on. But these same Labor
parties have not even yet fully applied the same
wise rule to States and Governments. To many
of the members of these parties (for there is a
steadily-growing company of exceptions) it is
enough that a Govt, or a Minister spends—the
O’Sullivan is a fine fellow, and the best Works
Minister N.S. Wales ever had, because lie
scatters the most coin ! Yet that is the part
that any fool or any fraud could do —the first
thing to see to here, just as it is in connection with
the private scatterer, is the source whence the
money came. And if that won’t stand investiga-
tion, then the bigger the scatter the greater the
folly or the fraud.
+
Tasmania’s “reform” movement is becoming the
boss joke among the humorous reform movements
of the Commonwealth. Tasmania has four
Ministers at £750 each, which is cheap enough.
It pays its members only £lOO a year. It pays
its civil servants a little over half Australian rates.
It is governed at less than half the cost per
inhabitant of Queensland, less than one-third that
of Westralia, and about 22 per cent, less -cost per
inhabitant than Victoria. It is by far and away
the most cheaply-governed State in Australasia ;•
it beats Great Britain hopelessly in economy, and
seems to represent the irreducible minimum. And
seeing that nearly half its expenditure is for
interest on its public debt, the amount left to
economise on is only about £400,000 a year. Its
unproductive debt—the debt for which it has to
provide interest solely out of taxation—is larger,
in proportion to population, than that of any'
country in Europe, and it pays this interest out
of a revenue which is a marvel of smallness.
Yet there isn’t one reformer in the island
who admits that the only way to make ends meet,.
now that the inter-State duties have been deducted,
from an income that was almost invisible before, is
to impose more taxes. Poor Premier Lewis, who
has already put a quart into a pint pot, is violently
abused for extravagance because he doesn’t erowd
two quarts into a gill. Tasmania’s land produces
twice as heavy crops as the soil of N.S.W., and
pays half as much tax, and the reform party is half
inclined to demand that even the Jd. in the £ be
taken off. Tasmania’s Treasurer, nowadays, is a
man who gets £750 a year and is expected to pay
eighteen pence worth of liabilities out of 6d. and
have 9d. over. And yet poor Treasurer Bird
hasn’t been driven to drink. Almost any other
man, under like circumstances, would take his
grey hairs to the public house and have a great
and terrible Tasmanian drunk—which is two
small beers.
4
Victoria’s Inspector-General of Prisons, Mr.
Evans, though excessively gradual, certainly
begins to arrive. According to his latest annual
report, just presented to the House, he has estab-
lished a special division for those who are on the
border line of criminality,, where they are worked
separately in healthy, agricultural toil. Also he
strongly objects to the habit of some Judges of
awarding long terms of ‘ ‘ solitary ” just prior to
discharge. He even goes so far as to say that
confinement makes prisoners morose
and -vindictive, and leads to unsettlement of
Working habits.” That, however, is about as far
as he has yet got. He congratulates himself on
the fact that there Were 34 less confinees at the
end of the year than at the beginning, and


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
of the United States.
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBER, 190 L
ASSETS
INCREASE IN ASSETS
£68,966,608
£5,508,678
SURPLUS ..
INCREASE IN SURPLUS
£14,797,717
£1,039,973
assurance in force
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE
£245,682,651
£13,000,350
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1900 bt ...
£8,088,718
LOCAfi "DIRECTORS:
Sir WM. M'MILLAN, K.0.M.G., Chairman; Hon. 0. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.0.;
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
/ C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S.,
F. 0. COWLEY, Secretary, Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
then prooeeds to spoil this pretty record
by stating that there was a total increase
of 126 prisoners as compared with 1900. Also he
makes (without comment) the startling statement
that, out of a total of 8034 admissions during the
year, no less than 1247 were on the charge of
vagrancy— i.e., they were old or sick poor, gaoled
because there was no hospital for their reception,
for the Law has admitted its present inability to
“vag” the common or able-bodied Bourke-street
loafer. Also, Mr. Evans says it cost £4l 3s. Id.
last year to keep each prisoner. Seeing that the
Melb. Benevolent Asylum finds its old pen-
sioners in clothing, food and tobacco at vastly less
eost, it seems as if Victoria might retrench these
aged poor out of gaol with considerable profit to
itself.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR DOMING WEEK.
Royal “ When we were Twenty-one.”
Lyceum “ The Great Ruby.”
Tivoli Rickards’ 00.
Palace “A Little Ray of Sunshine.”
Criterion “Mathis.”
Centenary Hall Major Lenehan’s Lecture (Tues-
day).
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess... “A Chinese Honeymoon.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Circus Girl.”
Theatre Royal “ The 10.30 Down Express.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville 00.
Bijou “ Cyrano de Bergerac.”
Gaiety Theatre Dan Barry’s Dramatic Op.
Town Hall Antonia Dolores —& Recitals.
» ■
The returned Broughs, come to play their
last Sydney season, had a great reception, with a
note of sadness in it, at Sydney Royal. A certain
pathos attaches to the last of anything. The
“Last of the Mohicans,” viewed with the sunset
of his race upon him, looks less dirty than the
second last Mohican and not so huge about the
feet as previous Mohicans. The “Last Days of
Pompeii,” and the “ Last of the Barons ” and the
“ Last of the Saxon Kings ” and the “ Last Man ”
are all tearful figures. Even the Last Day is
expected to be a heavy function. The Broughs
opened with a new play called “When we were
Twenty-one,” which has a dreary sound, and sug-
gests a thin, old man in a brown suit pondering by
the dying embers about his lost youth. The play
is less dismal than the name might indicate, but
it is an uneven production which fades a
good deal towards the end. Four middle-aged
men—the doctor, the colonel, the baronet, and
Brough, but principally Brough—have brough t up,
in a joint sort of way, the son of a deceased friend,
and this son is a Lout. He lives mostly on
Brough, and he is engaged to the girl that Brough
ought to be engaged to—a girl who looks nice, but
has all the elements of a Cat. When he comes
home with vine-leaves on his hat and his dress-
suit up about his ears, he is hustled to bed with-
out Brough knowing of his idol’s fall; and when
he drop 3 his nice girl and becomes engaged to a
large and notorious music-hall female of the most
terrible description the friends grieve over him,
and Brough decides to save him. The female
agrees to beoome notorious along with Brough for
one month in consideration of £lOOO in order that
her shocking character may become apparent to
the young man. It is only after the delicate
negotiation lias been concluded that Brough
learns that his adopted Lout married the
uproarious female that morning, and was thrown
out by her two hours later when she found
he had no money. Certain gentlemen whom
she had previously cleaned out had told
her in strict confidence that _ his wealth
was enormous, and when she discovered her
error she had driven him off the premises, had
thereafter raged through the hereditary flat of
her ancestors like a shower of wild cats. Brough
finds sorrowfully that he has been paying his
adopted Lout’s wife to become more notorious
than she is already, if such a thing can be.
* * * *
So the adopted Lout again comes home
with his suit up about his ears. He has a
vague idea that Brough has ruined his life, but
after awhile he decides to clear his character by
going to the war and killing somebody. It is
always understood, on the stage, that the remedy
for a blighted life or a blotted character is to go
to the war and kill somebody. The dead body
removes suspicion, and retrieves the past, and
settles up everything comfortably. He is to get
a divorce from the violent female when he comes
back. The violent female has already bolted with
another man. Brough decides to personally
marry the girl who nags at him and is a Cat, and
things straighten out till they are about as
straight as a cow’s horn.
• • # •
Mrs. Brough has a poor part and a very
brief appearance as the violent female. She isn’t
seen throwing things about or ejecting her hus
band. Miss Temple, as a French maid who says
“damn,” gathers up the ruins, and explains in a
terrified whisper how madame had wiped up the
premises and cleaned the stove with monsieur,
and how madame is now an enraged tigress per-
forming in the jungle of the next room. Both
ladies do their little parts well, but the parts are
not worthy of them. Brough is the principal suc-
cess of the play, and is a consistent success all
through. He even gets through the delicate nego-
tiation where he pays the lady to become notorious
with him without the negotiation appearing need-
lessly unpleasant. All through, Brough has the
heavy part of a grieved father trying to reform
an adopted Lout, yet he never becomes pon-
derous. Ernest Yere, who has done much
good work with this co., is a consistent and
rather interesting Lout; and clever Miss Brenda
Gibson plays the girl as prettily as circum-
stances allow. When she rounds on her .worried
benefactor, the dramatist destroys public sym-
pathy with her. He creates an impression that
she is liable to become an embittered Oat Misne
grows old. A sleepv mother, represented by Miss
Susie Vaughan, is a"gem among kindly old ladies,
and Leslie Victor does a casual fat man in excel-
lent style. One decided failure among the smaller
characters may be allowed, by reason of his
obscurity, to pass without identification. On the
whole, if the play was only half as good as the
company there would be little to complain or.
But the brilliance of Act 11. isn’t maintained.
The Lout isn’t a pleasant character, even when he
repents and decides to go to the war and kill
somebody. And the temporary Mrs. Lout is
utterly depressing.
* W Ilf *
*’ A Little Ray of Sunshine,” produced on
Saturday, at Sydney Palace Theatre, for the first
time in Australia, is another example of the success
which may be won in comedy by a playwright
abandoning the classic conventional lines and
giving himself something of the license which the
melodramatist is allowed by custom. Theoreti-
cally, a comedy should be a piece of “life
natural and probable in all its incidents. “ A
Little Ray of Sunshine,” like “Sweet Nell,,
which has just been such a marked success, doesn t
trouble too much about that theory, and cheer-
fully violates many of the rules for standard
comedy-making, when such violation is good for
the fun or the pathos. So it doesn’t stand on the
same artistic plane as such plays as “ Quex,”
“The Liars,” and “ The Tyranny of Tears ; ” it
is, in fact, of the Christmas-supplement order of
art. And for that very reason it has
won a wide popularity in England, which
should be repeated in Australia. The fun
of it is bright and wholesome, the story such
a one as appeals to the best in human nature, and
leads to cheery laughter and to a feeling of sensi-
sibility which is all happiness. Christmas Eve,
and the young squire is to be married on the
morrow; but a shadow is over his happiness in
the shape of an exigent money-lender, to whom he
has had recourse, to save from dishonor his friend
and future brother-in-law, young Markham.
And this shadow suddenly grows and darkens
the whole prospect. Enter the long-missing
Lord Markham, back from Australia with the
wealth of a Croesus and the desire to come
as an unexpected ray of sunshine, and mas-
querading, therefore, as anybody but him-
self. Hilarious fun through his being mis-
taken for the money-lender’s man, the baker’s
man, the cook’s uncle, various wedding guests;
and then disclosure of his real identity, all
the clouds rolled away and a full burst of
sunshine for Xmas. The fun throughout is
excellent; bewildering are the complications of
humorous situations, and the incidental pathos is
as salt with walnuts, good flavoring and whole-
some withal.
• * « *
Mr. Thornton takes the chief burden upon
himself as Lord Markham, and gives a character
sketch which equals in merit anything that he has
before done in Sydney. Both as a merry old man
carrying onjahuge joke at everybody’s expense,
and as the more serious and dignified saviour of
the family, his acting is excellent in a part which
makes exceptionally heavy demands. On the
whole, “ the male support” shows an even stan-
dard of high merit—the most successful being
Mr. Joseph Wilson and Mr. John Denton; Mr. R.
Erskine and Mr. Fred Cambourne play small
parts very well. In the acting of the women
characters there is a good deal of weakness, but
Miss Phoebe Mercer and Miss Katie Lee make
the most of their opportunities, which are not
very great.
** # *
Major Lenehan, late commanding officer
of the historic Bushveldt Carbineers, opens a lec-
turing season in the Centenary Hall, Sydney, on
Tuesday next. Mr. Leneban’s first lecture,
“War—Grim and Gay,” deals with the humors
and tragedies of the march to Pretoria, and the
sorry career of the Bushveldt Carbineers —about
whom, it is understood, he has an account to give
differing very materially from the impressions of
the general public.
** * *
“The Great Ruby” drags on its gilded
career at Sydney Lyceum, but the gallery declines
to take seriously the numerous top-hatted or long-
trained personages who barely keep the wolf from
the door on two or three thousand a year. Even
the stalls are unresponsive to this claim for sym-
pathy. The spectacle of the other noble person-
age, who tries to borrow half-a-crown from a wise
daughter who won’t lend the coin, appeals more
to the human sympathies of the audience, and the
ultra-stylish lady who goes out with the only £lOO
she has in the world to back the wrong horse is
also pleasing till she appears in evening dress with
18-year-old arms. She is supposed to be a middle-
aged lady, worried about her hotel bill and the
difficulty of dressing well on nothing a year, and
her cheerful, youthful, careless plumpness doesn’t
assort with her alleged age and the haggard life
of care she is supposed to lead.
** * *
“Hands Across the Sea” concludes the
Woods-Williamson season in Sydney, with the
exception of a benefit performance of “ Pygmalion
and Galatea ” on the last night. The impossible
ship still permits the various characters to walk
about on the ocean ; though this miracle is dis-
tinctly old-fashioned and unworthy of a bright,
up-to-date company. Another remarkable piece
of scenery is a red staircase that obtrudes its
glittering impossibility right to the footlights.
Jacob’s angels couldn’t have sprinted up that
staircase without breaking their celestial shins.
** * *
“ Mathis,” a new opera by Ernest Truman
and Leumane, is to be played for six nights
at Sydney Criterion, beginning on Saturday.
Slapoffski speaks well of the new opera, which is
promising, and this country’s old bass idol,
Edward Farley, is in the cast, which is more than
promising.
*» * *
The return of Paul Cinquevalli filled
Sydney Tivoli with a cheering audience on Mon-
day. The greatest juggler of modern times comes
with a fresh budget of feats—mostly in the
“strongman” line—but does nothing to eclipse
in power of entertainment, his old marvels.
Cinquevalli is most attractive in. his “little”
tricks —juggling with airy trifles in a fashion
infinitely neat and absolutely certain. Compared
with his billiard-ball, cue, and hat performances,
the new buggy-balancing act does not seem
at all marvellous ; it is a thing which San-
dow or any other strong man might, learn
to do with a little trouble. But in the
balancing of small things, Cinquevalli is certainly
“ the incomparable.” His juggling with a cannon-
ball also gives wonderful proof of the extent to
which the human eyes, muscles and nerves can be
trained to achieve the apparently impossible.
Cinquevalli’s humorously stolid assistant contri-
butes more than ever to the success of his master’s
act; he is a genuine comedian, and would be
worth a big salary as a clown. Mark Anthony,
entertainer, is another fresh arrival —a good
singer, a good imitator, and a fine story-teller.
Mr. Tom Woottwell has another budget of songs,
and Byron and Fagan contribute a new sketch as
smart as the last one. Other good “turns’’are
provided by the Williams Sisters and Miss Jennie
Opie.
#* * *
If Melbourne has begun to tire of musical
comedy the change of feeling is not yet percep-
tible. On Saturday there was a great house at
Her Majesty’s for the first production of “A
Circus Girl.” The demand for standing-room set
in long before 7.45 p.m. When the curtain
actually rose, as per advt., and having found
space, the seatless hundreds held their ground
until after 11 o’clock. “A Circus Girl ” differs
from the average play of its kind in having more
narrative, and fewer irrelevant specialities. It
doesn’t lose all sense of responsibility as soon as
the characters change their garments and proceed
to the business of the second act. Something
rather similar to this was played at the
Princess’s years ago under the title of “In
Town,’’but whereas the other narrative introduced
its characters within the confines of a London
hotel, and then transferred them all to the green-
room of a giddy theatre, this story places them
outside a cafe on the Boulevarde, Paris, before
shifting them to the ante-room of a circus, and
elsewhere. There are three scenes to the second
act of the spangled fiction. Also, the cast of per-
formers includes a peaceful white gee-gee, which
is supposed to oarry Miss Young around the
arena, the scene of action being shut out from
view by an aggravating pair of curtains whenever
an alleged performer goes forth from the front to
do a “turn.” “ A Circus Girl,” though smartly
written, is not so almost persuasive as “In Town ”
was. It strikes one as being a travesty of the
earlier farce. The elderly duke and duchess
and their daughter, who went behind the
scenes at the Frivolity Theatre!in “In Town,”
are represented here by Sir Titus (Bantock)
Wemyss, Lady Wemyss (Blanche Wallace),
and Carrie Moore, as the sentimental offspring.
Florence Young, in the name-part, is a somewhat
rakish reminder of Decima Moore as the priina-
donna whom the old Duke (now Sir Titus) was
privileged to pursue with bouquets and doubtful
intentions. Kenningham and Harold Thorley
are young men adorers of the two principal
girls, but neither of them has a commanding part
like Captain Coddington in “In Town.”
* * * *
And there are others. Hugh Ward wears
the fur-trimmed coat and weather-beaten nose of
a circus-proprietor, a gaudy relic of the grand old
school that always curled its declining hair and
went to bed in Hessian boots. Miss Ghiloni
appears as Madame Drivelli, wife of the above.
She ought to be a somewhat-aged person, turning
the scale at 16 stone, but unfortunately manager
Williamson hasn’t provided the co. with a stout
lady comedian of uncertain age, suitable to such
parts as Madame Drivelli and Carmenita in “ A
Runaway Girl.” So Miss Ghiloni paints lines on
her face, and struggles hard to seem different from
herself. George Lauri is a waiter at the cafe, en-
gaged to marry Maud Chetwynd, who walks on a
wire at the circus, and looks the daintiest
of “treats” in pink, also in blue. A Terrible
Turk is attached to the circus for the pur-
pose of wrestling with all coiners, and Lauri
accepts his challenge, having been deluded by
a mis-statement of the Turk’s length, width and
thickness. On reaching the circus he discovers
that police-officer Kelly, of Melbourne, is the
mountain of flesh he has undertaken to shift.
Then Lauri descends to strategy. He pours
champagne—awful hippodromic champagne—into
Kelly before the event, and five quarts of the
deadly lotion suffice to rob the monster of his
terrors. Kelly when last seen is lying flat in the
arena, with Lauri standing on the place where he
put the champagne. Subsequently, Sir Titus
gets fired, in effigy, from a cannon by his future
son-in-law, but he returns to earth with holes in
his apparel, and helps to wind up the plot.
* * » •
The forces at Her Majesty’s—especially
the orchestra—failed to make the very best of
“ A Circus Girl ”on Saturday night. They gave
a good enough performance in the bulk, and
there was bulk to spare. A company weaker in
some parts and stronger in others would have
given the new show a better send-off. Neverthe-
less, it went off with an air of importance, as
though it had a stake in the country and felt sure
of getting influential support.
** * *
The drama with a real mangle and a
spurious railway train in its lurid constitution is
still ministering to the wants of an easily-excited
populace at the Royal. Probably it will mimister
for another week after this. Then “ The Worst
Woman in London” will take the place of “The
10.30 Down Express” and invite all the good
females of Melbourne to behold what sort of a
sinner they might be if they tried. Lovely woman
in general has a lively craving for the knowledge
of exactly how bad she isn’t.
#* * *
Melbourne theatre-managers surely don’t
need any more frosty seasons to convince them
that their houses, under present conditions, are
lumbago-traps for three months of the year, and
that the public, in a general way, is not taking
any more lumbago at the price. Melbourne grew
up under the impression that it was a mild-winter
city, like Sydney, where one can sit in a mode-
rately well-filled theatre in July without shiver-
ing But, of late years, the truth about the tem-
ferature has displaced the oheerful old fallacy.
'erhaps the houses were comfortable enough when
they were lighted by gas. Now they are electn-
cally lighted, and the people don’t roll up to keep
one another warm, as of yore, and the need for
heating arrangements is a public grievance. As
for the Town Hall, with its draughty entrances
and cold corridors, the place is insufferable. Tha
performers are as bitter in their complaints as tha
scanty audiences. What time they are not trying
to console their fellow-sufferers in front, they sit
in the ‘ ‘ artists’ room ” and sneeze d—n !
** * *
The amateur “ Runaway Girl” perform-
ance, in Melbourne, brought tears to the eyes of
two or three patriotic medical men, who had come
to judge it on its physical points. The nicely-
brought-up daughters of Toorak, South Yarra,
and St. Kilda were under observation as future
mothers of the bong-tong. Were they built for
brilliant maternity successes ? The faculty shook
its head in despair. No limbs to speak of; all
right as regards faces, feet and ankles, yet very
saddening in the more important matters of
shoulders, hips and limbs —especially the latter.
Stout limbs the exception, slim arms and legs
the rule. Shapely enough, but lacking the
dimensions that a medical eye would wish to dwell
upon. Small-boned, alas! M.D. and Surgeon
sorrowed together, during the interval, wondering
what the young men thought of it. Apparently
the young men—the future husbands and fathers—
were not as disappointed as they ought to have
been. Youth is thoughtless, and Limbs don’t
enter very much into its calculations. The boy
adores a sylph ; the veteran admires “an angel
who has something to sit down upon.”
** * *
The “ Chinese Honeymoon ” has arrived
at its fourth and penultimate week in a satisfac-
tory state of health. May Beatty’s Fi-Fi grows
broader, patchier, merrier, though her low-
comedy business is beginning to bruise the feelings
of the More Refined. The red-whiskered Mr.
Pineapple of Edward Lauri continues every night
freshly to try and pump up a laugh among the
audience. By sheer hard work he manages to make a
passable part of that silly bridegroom, who escapes
to sundry arms from the lynx eyes of his hysteri-
cal new-half and her dashing quartet of maids.
The heavy baritone whistles to his Juli-an-io at
the balcony window with growing clearness, but
the girl in the circle badly wants him to ring off
and sing his cuddlesome serenade in the approved
fashion. Princess So-So is still so-so. A slight
huskiness of late sends her out of time, and her
tired air grows apace.
* » * *
The days of “ The Honeymoon ” are num-
bered because “Sweet Nell” is coming back to
the Princess’s on August 2nd. Sweet Nell, her
unprecedented hat, her harpsichord, likewise her
King and His Majesty’s. self-contained dog were
a,t the very zenith of their popularity, as the advt.
would say, when they left Melbourne in April
last. Since then they have been yearningly spoken
of by everybody who knew them, and by many
who missed the chance of making their acquaint-
ance, therefore the date of “Nell’s” return is
noted on the tablet of the local mind in red pen-
cil, and the eye of the local multitude appears to
be looking ahead.
** * *
Last Saturday’s special feature at the
Opera House turned out to be Lydia Yeamans-
Titus, instead of the Florenz party. Of all the
people who have ever happened in a Rickards
programme when somebody else was expected,
Madame L. Y.-T. is undoubtedly the brightest. In
fact, she is brightest singer, mimic, and essen-
tially feminine humorist who ever happened any-
where in the district under any circumstances.
Her sweet, penetrating, educated voice is like
the original youthful voice of Maggie Moore,
with all the little bits of grit taken
from it. Her imitation of a child singing
a song is Celebrated because it is wonderful,
absolutely wonderful, and the humor of her en-
tertainment in other respects is as pure as her
singing. Rickards’s just now is the Home of
musical talent, also the Temple of polite comedy,
and a Palace of pictures on a sheet. Professor
Wrigley, who plays the clarionette, xylophone
and all kinds of wind music, has replaced the
Concertina Sultan. The clever Jackson Family
is back again after a few months interval, and
one of the damsel Jacksons looks as though she had
grown an inch taller meanwhile. Holdsworth, the
illustrated songster, warbles tales of sadness and
joy, and Tom Nawn continues to dream about a
Genie.
# * *
At the Town Hall (where Gerardy lately
caught Melbourne in a cold, soulless mood) there
will be a re-appearance of that fascinating artist,
Mdlle. Antonia Dolores on Saturday next (26th).
The simple intimation that Dolores is going to be
there should suffice to fetch an army of admirers,
and when it is further stated that she will give
only four more recitals in Melbourne prior to
leaving the country for an indefinite period, the
admirers can ask for nothing further in the way of
inducement. Dates fixed for the Dolores’ fare-
wells are 26th, 28th, and 30th July (matinee), and
2nd August.
A quite unaccountable outbreak ot new
dramatic enterprises is promised for Saturday.
At the Bijou an interesting production of “Cyrano
de Bergerac, ” with Henry Lee in the name part,
and Miss Waldorf as leading lady. At the Queen’s
Theatre, where the Victoria Hall used to be, Miss
Ada Willoughby and co. are announced to play a
hilarious comedy called “The Wrong Mrs.
Wright,” which is very like the name of George
Willoughby’s comedy.
** * *
Dan Barry and Co. committed “ A Gilded
Sin ” at the Gaiety Theatre—a sort of an out-
growth from the Bijou—last Saturday evening,
and did not escape the approbation of a numerous
and vociferous audience. “The Sin” is pardon-
able in its cheerful parts. One very forgivable
item in the trouble is Miss Gladys Grant, who,
with a fresh, musical and sympathetic voice and
a youthful and pleasing appearance, should have
future opportunities of sinning histrionically in
a much less desperate degree. Some more or less
complimentary remarks on Daniel B. and his
venture are held over until next week, when the
drama will be changed.
* * *
At Adelaide Royal, Hawtrey’s co. has
come in from an up-country tour with “ The Lady
of Ostend,” by Burnand. As might be expected
from the London Punch man, the humor is rather
thin at times. But the exposure of an erring hus-
band by a casual cinematograph record is right up
.to date. The said husband lies hysterically to
his wife, and altogether there is considerable fun
in the three-act farce. At the Tivoli, the excel-
lent D’Arc marionettes have faded away, and
Rickards has returned to his own again, with
manager Marcus back in command, a»d a variety
co., headed by the Sidney Drews,- who are to
‘‘ inaugurate a new era in vaudeville in Aus-
tralia. ”


tramways. tramways.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material.
Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p.
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel Sleepers,
Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical advice gratuitously
rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Catalogues and Photo-
graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different parts of the World, upon
application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option ot
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,"
Melbourne. *
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that tha
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footsoray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts,nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron- work. *
* ♦ * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-streeb, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * •
Although the severe 1 drought has detrimentally
affected mining, there are still many mines requiring
Ss pf all descriptions, and to those we would reeom-
the A.S. Cameron Steam Pumps. Besides these, a
much-improved Gyratory Crusher is now on the market—
viz., the “Austin”-in style on the Gates’ system, but
greatly improved throughout, and having special features
which make them superior to all others. The agents for
the above are Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, 606 Little
Collins St., Melbourne. This enterprising firm is always
to the front with the best of every mining appliance,
which includes the unparalleled Luhrig Concentrating
Vanner.*
• * « •
The Austral Otis Engineering Co.’s tender for
the supply of nearly a million arc lamps of Conradty’s
manufacture has been accepted by the City Council of
Melbourne. The same co. has also been entrusted with
the supply of the Launceston City Council’s requirements
of arc lamp carbons.*
* * * •
City Leader, July, 1901: —“We can only say
as before that for security and reliability the Colonial
Mutual takes a high place in the insurance world.”*
m•. • *
The finest Rubber Mills in the Southern
Hemisphere have been erected in Melbourne by the
Dunlop Tyre Co. who are now prepared to execute orders
(in any quantity) for Suction, Drill or Air Hose, Packing,
Valves, etc. Mine Managers can place orders with the
Dunlop Company with the greatest confidence as to
quality, price and workmanship. Correspondence
Invited.*
* • * *
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-street, Melbourne,
having returned from his visit to England, is now pre-
pared to purchase approved Mines and Mining Properties
situated in any part of Australasia requiring Capital for
Development and Machinery. Only genuine _ and
legitimate ventures, capable of bearing the strictest
examinations, will be entertained.*
* 1 * *
The antidote to cyanide poisoning, as supplied
by Ernest de Beer, 439 Bourke-street, Melbourne, has
been approved by the Victorian Mines Department as
being the only real antidote known. All who use
cyanide should keep one or two of these on hand. The
price is 10s. each."
* • • •
The Hannan’s Oroya Gold Mining Co., Kal-
goorlie, has lately placed an order with the Austrai.
Otis Company, South Melbourne, for a double drum first
motion winding engine. The cylinders are 18 inch
diameter by 36 inch stroke, and are fitted with balanced
piston valves. The drums are Bft. in diameter and fitted
with indicators. The engine is completely, controlled
from the driver’s platform. In all respects it is similar to
the engines working so satisfactorily at the Golden Horse-
shoe Mine, Boulder; Long Tunnel, Victoria; and the
Oobar Chesney Mine, N.S.W.*
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Under license from the A.G.C. of A. Ld.
SPOT or FORWARD. LOWEST PRICESi
Storage can bo arranged.
HY MARKWALD,
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Aucklane
Dunedin and Weuunqtom.
The Wild Cat Column.
The Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney just
about holds its own this half-year :
Added to Total
Profits. Dividend. Reserves. Reserves.
June, 1895.. £38,037.. 8p.c.=£37,985.. £52.. £1,024,487
Dee., 1895.. 39,474.. 8 „ 39,227.. 247.. 1,024,734
June, 1896.. 40,303.. 8 „ 39,966.. 337.. 1,025,071
Dec., 1896.. 40,067.. 8 „ 40,000.. 67.. 1,025,138
June,1897.. 40,119.. 8 „ 40,000.. 119.. 1,025,257
Dec., 1897.. 40,150.. 8 „ 40,000.. 150.. 1,025,407
June,lB9B.. 40,410.. 8 „ 40,000.. 410.. 1,025,817
Dec., 1898.. 40,864.. 8 „ 40,000.. 864.. 1,026,681
June, 1899.. 42,340.. 8 „ 40,000.. 2840.. 1,029,021
Dec., 1899.. 45,251.. 9 „ 45,000.. 251.. 1,029,272
June, 1900.. 50,880.. 10 „ 50,000.. 880.. 1,030,152
Dec., 1900.. 51,509..10 „ 50,000.. 1509.. 1,031,661
June, 1901.. 51,228.. 10 „ 50,000.. 1228.. 1,032,889
Dec., 1901.. 51,249..10 ~ 50,000.. 1249.. 1,034,138
June, 1902.. 51,254.. 10 „ 50,000.. 1254.. 1,035,392
The profits represent £5 os. 9d. per cent, per annum on
the total shareholders’ funds as at the commencement of
the half-year, as against £5 os. lOd. earned during half-
year to December, 1901. Comparing the principal figures
with those of a year ago they show as follows :
June, 1901. June, 1902.
Gash and Liquid
Securities .. £4,922,263 £5,488,156 Inc. £565,893
Advances .. 9,771,028 9,140,293 Dec. 630,735
Deposits, &c. .. 11,557,615 11,964,545 Inc. 406,930
Notes and Bills in
Circulation .. 1,472,840 1,016,822 Dec. 456,018
Reserves.. .. 1,032,889 1,035,392 Inc. 2,503
The reserve of cash and liquid securities represents the
magnificent proportion of 42 per cent, on all liabilities to
the public. Comparing the figures of the half-year just
closed with those of 12 months ago, as shown above,
things look moderately good ; but if the present figures
are set against those of six months ago, the fact that the
present is a time of stress becomes very evident. During
the past half-year every item in the balance-sheet shows
a reduction, and the totals are £500,000 less than they
were last December. Australia is tolerably hard-up when
even so solid an institution as the Commercial of Sydney
shows such symptoms.
* • * •
The balance-sheet of the Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co. appears in the present issue, and will be
duly noticed in this column next week.
* * • •
The Australian Joint Stock Bank (Sydney)
shows a serious falling-away in profits for the half-year
which closed on 30th June, 1902. Dating from the last
re-arrangement progress has been as follows :
Profits by
Purchase of
Bank- Depre- Added
ing ciated Written to Total
Profits. Deposits. Off. Reserves. Reserves.
June, 1897 £52,000
Dec., 1897 £1,725 £1,725 53,725
June, 1898 3,746 3,746 57,471
Dec., 1898 266 266 57,737
June, 1899 1,358 1,358 59,095
Dec., 1899 2,912 £88,908 £91,820 150,915
June, 1900 2,057 20,565 22,622 173,537
Dec., 1900 2,547 19,964 22,511 196,048
June, 1901 13,465 21,947 £ll,OOO 24,412 220,460
Dec., 1901 3,584 12,663 16,247 236,707
June, 1902 2,043 20,840 22,883 259,590
The banking profits represent ss. lOd. per cent, on the
total shareholders’ funds with which the half-year com-
menced, as compared with 10s. 4d. per cent, earned
during six months to December, 1901. On capital alone
the banking profits are sufficient to pay a dividend of 7s.
per cent. To make the earnings equal 5 per cent., it
Would be necessary to write down the capital from
£1,168,041 to £81,720 and write off all reserves.
Though the nominal reserves have largely increased, and
the interest burden is considerably reduced by the repay-
ment of deposits, there is no sign of any increase in profits
—in fact the earnings for the half-year just ended are the
worst since June, 1899.
A considerable amount of progress is certainly
being made in the repayment or repurchase of the recon-
structed deposits. The figures, since the A.J.S. Bank
began to show the reconstructed deposits separately,
have been as follows :
Due on Reconstructed Paid off during
Deposits. Half-year.
Dec., 1899 .. £5,784,223 ..
June, 1900 „ 5,457,327 .. £326,896
Dec., 1900 .. 5,390,005 .. 67,322
June, 1901 .. 6,318,901 .. 71,104
Dec., 1901 .. 5,269,030 .. 49,871
June, 1902 .. 4,939,221 .. 329,809
This represents a reduction of £845,002 in 2J years.
The new business of the A.J.S. Bank makes
very little progress. New deposits (those that are not
reconstructed) stand at £1,123,994. Since the bank began
to show them separately the highest figure they have
reached has been £1,200,773 at December, 1899, and the
lowest £1,076,556 at June, 1901. The principal asset is
described as “ Bills discounted, advances, and all other
debts due to the Bank, and, other assets at old valuations,
£6,360,790.” New advances (which are presumably good)
and old assets left over from the days before 1893 (which
are admittedly very doubtful) are thus lumped
together. It is impossible to say how much of the
mass consists of old, doubtful assets, but they
may represent £5,000,000 or so. There is nothing
to show what progress is being made with their
realisation. Of the last call £6473 is still unpaid, and it
has stood at exactly the same figure since June, 1899.
No attempt is made to forfeit any shares for unpaid calls.
There is nominally £391,505 of capital still to be called up,
and if any part of this could be called up and devoted to
the repurchase of the 3J per cent, inscribed stock deposits
(obtainable at less than 10s. in the £), it would be money
invested at 7 per cent; £lOO,OOO thus invested would
relieve the A.J.S. Bank of an interest burden of £7OOO a
year, which ought to more than double its profits. Yet
no attempt is made to call up anything. The A.J.S.
never offers any estimate of its losses or any theory as to
when it expects to get on a sound footing again. It
never writes off any capital- in reduction of losses.
It is the most absolutely silent bank in Australia—the
Sphinx with £1,168,041 paid up. The directors never give
themselves away to a serious extent by rash statements
at the half-yearly meeting, about their hopes, fears, ideas
or intentions. In a country with anything like a decent
Banking Act, or any respectable system of State audit,
such an institution would be impossible. It doesn’t even
pretend that the figures in its balance-sheet show any-
thing like its real position ; these assets “ at old valua-
tion ” may mean anything; nor does it mention how old
that valuation is. The writer knows of very few countries
where a bank could go on living on these terms, but in
Australia almost anything in the way of drift and casual-
ness is possible.
* • • *
The Queensland National Bank, on June 30,
1902, closed the least profitable half-year it has
experienced for three years. Dating from the final re-
arrangement the reoord is as follows:
Less.
-A _ _ . _
Repaid
Repaid Private
Gross Written Govern- Deposi- Total
Profits. off. ment. tors. Reserves.
Dec., 1897 £16,635 £3,635 £2OOO £4OOO £2,000
June, 1898 17,795 8,795 2250 4500 4,259
Dec., 1898 21,255 12,255 2250 4500 6,509
June, 1899 23,879 13,879 2500 5000 9,000
Dec., 1899 27,341 15,311 3000 6000 12,000
June, 1900 27,417 15,147 3000 6000 15,090
Dec., 1900 27,712 15,712 3000 6000 18,000
June, 1901 23,350 16,350 3000 6000 21,000'
Dec., 1901 28,745 16,745 3000 6000 24,000
June, 1902 25,605 13,605 3000 6000 27,000
The nominal net profit (£12,000, after writing off £13,605
in reduction of losses) represents £5 9s. lOd. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders’ funds as at the commence-
ment of the half-year.
The Queensland National Bank’s balance-sheet
would convey to a person unacquainted witn t
history of the institution not the slightest idea of the
position. The bank, as far as can be esti .
after the last reconstruction, about £1,040,000 to private
depositors which was repayable gradually out of profits
without interest. This large liability has t 0 b f P™'* ,® d
for before the bank can be a really solvent institution
again, and it didn’t, and doesn’t, appear in the balance-
sheet at all. Likewise the assets which did appear in the
balance-sheet at December, 1897, were admittedly -
valued to the extent of something like £500,000, and this
also had to be provided for out of profits. There was such
exceedingly great doubt about an item described ( C
December, 1897) as “ Debts in suspense pending realisa-
tion of securities £742,835,” that the old losses which had
to be provided for out of new profits might easily
prove to be more than the £1,540,000 estimated
above —on the other hand they might chance
to be less. In the course of five years, the Queens-
land National Bank has made visible progress to this
extent:
“Debts in suspense” reduced from £742,835
to £573 317 .. •• .. .. *loy,oio
Non-interest-bearingdebttoGovernmentreduced
from £458,331 to £390,581 .. .. -- 0",760
Accumulated towards repayment of non-interest
bearing debt to private depositors (estimated
at £1,040,000) not shown in balance-sheet .. 54,000
New Reserve Fund created .. . • • • 27,000
Of course, the items above shown are to some extent
duplicated; the large repayments made to the Govern-
ment were not made wholly out of profits, but probably
to a large extent out of the proceeds of the realisation of
the “ debts in suspense.” Still, the Q. N. Bank has
realised £244,764 of visible profits in the five years, and,
with repayments and accumulated reserves, it has pro-
bably reduced its total shortage by a sixth. And as it
gets its house in order, and realises its non-productive
assets, the earnings, despite the present set-back, ought
to increase. During the past half-year “ Debts in Sus-
pense ” have been reduced by £15,000. Any real pros-
pect of dividends seems to be still many years ahead, and
there is always the possibility of a bank in this state,
especially one which does business in a badly depressed
country, which is going straight towards public msol-
vency, meeting with another big disaster before the
effects of the old disaster are cleared off. Barring that,
the outlook has some elements of hope—remote elements.
Leaving out of consideration the reconstructed
deposits and the mass of more or less dead securities that
are in process of realisation, the live part of the Q.N.
Bank has progressed thus during last year :
June, 1901. June, 1902. Increase.
Cash and Liquid
Securities .. £1,637,961 £2,151,805 £513,844
Govt. Deposits .. 558,177 920,608 362,431
Private „ .. 1,128,788 1,390,943 262,155
Advances.. .. 4,811,102 4,911,852 100,750
These results are favorable.
* * * •
Victoria has floated another £1,000,000 loan in
London. Not having gone in madly for an Owe’Sullivan
public works policy, it was able, unlike N.S.W., to wait
till the market improved and so gets rather better terms.
Its 3 per cent, securities apparently realise between
£94 and £9s—perhaps £2 more than N.S.W. secured two
months ago. And even then it loses £50,000 on the deal—
that is to say it borrows at a lower rate than its credit
can stand, and £50,000 of the interest is paid out of
principal and added to the permanent debt.
* * * •
The Commercial Bank of Australia (Mel-
bourne) is still another institution which shows diminished
earnings for the half-year just closed. The proposed
writing off of about £1,100,000 of the ordinary capital has
been formally authorised by the shareholders, but pend-
ing certain legal formalities the capital still appears in
the balance-sheet at the old figure. The adjustment will
be made before next balance-sheet is issued. When the
writing down is effected it was estimated six months rgo
that there would still remain a deficit of £1,076,334 to be
gradually liquidated out of earnings, and as the paid-up
capital, even after the writing down, will be about
£2,217,000, the Commercial Bank of Australia has about
£1,100,000 of capital over and above all losses and liabili-
ties. This is as good a position as depositors could ask
for. This half-year, for the first time, the directors
explain the exact position as regards their famous
Assets Trust Co. During the six months to 30th
June the bank made £67,852 profit, and the Assets
Trust showed £22,418 loss. Therefore the net profit
of the whole institution was £38,434. Hitherto the
bank has transferred, as a rule, £30,000 each half-year of
its profits to the Trust, but the directors obstinately
refused to state whether this was the amount required to
meet the Trust’s current loss, or whether it was in-
sufficient to meet the loss, or whether it covered the loss
and left something over to write down 1 the capital value
of the assets. Apparently, however, it may be assumed
that £30,000 half-yearly was just about sufficient to meet
the loss, and the position may be roughly estimated as
follows (except as regards last half-year it is only an
estimate):
Approximate
Approximate Deficit £2,200,000
net Profit
of Bank and Dividend on Added to Paid off
Assets Trust. Preference Sh’rs. Deficit. Deficit.
Dec., 1896 £11,636 2 p.c. = £21,171 £9535
June, 1897 22,530 2 „ „ 21,171 £1359
Dec., 1897 23,222 2 ~ „ 21,171 2051
June, 1898 22,363 2 ~ „ 21,171 1192
Dec., 1898 22,801 2 „ „ 21,171 1630
June, 1899 22,247 2 „ „ 21,171 1076
Dec., 1899 35,351 3 „ „ 31,756 3595
June, 1900 28,265 3 „ „ 31,756 3491
Dec., 1900 35,153 3 „ „ 31,768 3395
June, 1901 34,929 3 „ „ 31,758 3171
Dec., 1901 42,460 3 „ „ 31,758 10,702
(About £1,100,000 capital written off in reduction of Deficit)
Actual
net Profit
of Bank and
June, 1902 £38,434 ’ 3 p.c. = £31,758 _ £6676
On this rough estimate £21,821 has been paid off the
deficit out of profits since June, 1896. But things are
really better than they look, for the figures represent that
the Commercial Bank of Australia scarcely held its own
till June, 1900, while since then it has paid £23,944 off
the deficit out of earnings. And if the directors would
publish, even now, a statement of the exact loss made by
the Assets Trust each half-year sinoe that unfortunate
side-show came into existence, it is just possible that
things would look a little better than this.
The half-year’s net profits are about £3 11s. 6d.
per cent, on the written-down capital, or, rather, on the
capital as it will probably stand when the writing-down
is completed. The principal figures compare with those
of a year ago as follows :
June, 1901. June, 1902.
Cash and Liquid
Securities £1,199,732 £1,545,955 Inc. £346,223
Deposits .. 3,530,602 3,387,912 Dec. 142,690
Other liabilities 524,367 527,757 Inc. 3,390
Advances .. 4,710,745 4,324,424 Dec. 386,321
During the year the liabilities of the Assets Trnst have
been reduced by £44,433. The bank’s reserve of cash
and liquid securities represents over 39 per cent, on all
its liabilities to the public, which is a remarkably
strong reserve. Altogether, the Commercial Bank of
Australia, despite its deficit of £1,000,000 or so, looks more
promising since it faced the position and revealed the real
state of things with regard to its Trust. From a
depositors’ point of view, with about £1,100,000 of capital
intact, it is as strong as could be asked for. As to the
ordinary shareholder, his position is too poor to be worth
talking about at present, and his next dividend is
probably due about the third Goronation from now.
* « * *
“ Not a Bank Clerk ”: It is impossible to trace
the information you want, the information given in the
balance-sheets being so limited.
The City Bank of Sydney closed its half-year
at 30th June, 1902, with the poorest results it has shown
for very many years :
Added
to Re- Total
Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
Dec., 1894 £10,004 5 p.c. = £10,000 £4 £108,276
June, 1895 10,030 6 „ „ 10,000 30 108,306
Dec., 1895 10,020 5 „ „ 10,000 20 108,325
June, 1896 8,108 4 „ „ 8,000 108 108,433
Dec., 1896 8,070 4 „ „ 8,000 70 108,503
June, 1897 8,049 4 „ „ 8,000 49 108,552
Dec., 1897 8,395 4 „ „ 8,000 395 108,947
June, 1898 8,273 4 „ „ 8,000 273 109,220
Dec., 1898 8,053 4 „ „ 8,000 53 109,273
June, 1899 8,070 4 „ „ 8,000 70 109,343
Dec., 1899 8,212 4 „ „ 8,000 212 109,555
June, 1900 8,041 4 „ „ 8,000 41 109,596
Dec., 1900 8,223 4 „ „ 8,000 223 109,819
June, 1901 8,105 4 „ „ 8,000 105 109,924
Dec.. 1901 8,157 4 „ „ 8,000 157 110,081
June, 1902 8,016 4 „ „ 8,000 16 110,097
The earnings represent £3 2s. lOd. per cent, per annum
on the shareholders’ funds, as at the commencement of
half-year. It is a very low rate, and if it represents all
that the City Bank of Sydney (a non-reconstrueted bank),
is capable of earning, then a considerable writing-down
of the assets appears to be called for. There is a general
impression, however, based on a bygone statement by the
chairman of directors, that the bank has old losses
(amount unknown) to provide for, and that the formal
accuracy with which it professes to earn practically the
exact amount of its dividend every half-year arises from
the fact that the balance (amount unknown) is applied in
reduction of these losses. In the absence of any theory
about the amount of the alleged losses, or the amount of
the alleged earnings that are applied in reduction thereof,
there is also a complete absence of any theory as to when
the process, if there is such a process, will be completed.
It is an unsatisfactory and hazy state of inference, but in
a country like Australia, where there are banks whose
balance-sheet values are known to differ from the real
values by a million or two, a mere small uncertainty like
the above is a trivial matter.
The figures in the City Bank of Sydney’s bal-
ance-sheet remain nearly stationary, as usual. Deposits
(£1,125,836) are nearly £39,000 more than they were 12
months ago, and about £22,000 less than they were six
months ago. The reserve of cash and liquid securities is
£338,438 (cash £288,438, and Government securities
£50,000), which is equal to rather over 28 per cent, on all
liabilities to the public. Note circulation (£68,044) is
£9000 less than it was a year ago, while advances haye
increased by £33,000. There is very little information in
the City Bank’s balance-sheet, and the institution doesn’t
even profess to be doing anything serious in the way of
re-building the reserve fund which it wrote down heavily
some years ago. The latest quoted sale of its shares
(£8 paid up) was at £4 7s. 6d., at which price they yield
the purchaser 7£ per cent. That plainly hints that the
public doesn’t value its City Bank very highly. If there
is anything to clean up—and in view of the earnings it is
hard to see how it can be otherwise—it would surely be
better to do it at once, and write values down to bedrock.
• * * *
The Bank of Nokth Queensland, in its balance-
sheet for the half-year just concluded, shows the effects
of the bad times that are being experienced in the
drought-stricken, debt-laden, misgoverned North:—
Recovered Dividend
from old (2£ p.c.) Added
Profits. Debts Total, and to Total
Written Dividend Re- Re-
off. Tax. serves, serves.
June. 1898.. £587 £587 £587 £587
Dec., 1898. .1479 1479 1479 2,066
June, 1899.. 1675 £881 2556 2556 4,622
Dec., 1899.. 2700 2700 £1313 1387 6,009
June, 1900.. 2557 901 3458 1313 2145 8,154
Dec., 1900.. 2368 1540 3908 1313 2595 10,749
June, 1901.. 2424 2424 1313 1111 11,860
Dec., 1901.. 2536 2536 1313 1223 13,083
June, 1902.. 2038 2038 1313 725 13,808
The earnings represent £3 12s. Id. per cent, per annum
on the shareholders’ funds as at the commencement of
the half-year. This is a heavy faliing-away from the
£4 10s. 8d. per cent, earned during the previous half-
year, and is a notable sign of the Northern depression.
The Queensland National Bank also shows a falling away,
and though the Royal Bank of Queensland shows an
increase in gross profits that apparently only arises
through the great increase of capital; the earnings per
cent, on the shareholders’ funds are less than they were
six months ago. Still, the Bank of North Queensland is
able to pay its regular little dividend, and make a reason-
ably substantial addition to its reserves, which are all in-
vested in State securities.
Apart from the reduced earnings, things look
reasonably well. The principal items compare with the
figures of a year ago as follows
June, 1901. June, 1902.
Gash .. ..£109,992 .. £97,501 .. Dec. £12,491
State securities.. 10,500 .. 26,000 .. Inc. 15,500
Liquid assets ..£120,492 ..£123,501 ..Inc. £2,009
Advances ..£301,615 ..£298,422 ..Dec. £3,193
Deposits .. 242,101 .. 236,311 .. Deo. 5,790
Other liabilities.. 86,855 .. 90,519 .. Itic. 3,664
Reserves.. .. 11,860 .. 13,808 .. Inc. 1,948
The cash reserve represents 30 per cent., and the reserve
of cash and State securities over 37 per cent., on all lia-
bilities to the public, which is a very solid figure, and
suggests that the management aims at stability in the
first instance.
* • • •
For the year ended June, 1901, Queensland had
a deficit of £528,188. For the year ended June, 1902, it
had a deficit of £431,939. For the year that will close at
June, 1903, Treasurer Cribb originally anticipated a deficit
of £247,788, but he contemplates measures by which he
may reduce it to £100,000 or less. Even this means a
shortage of over £1,000,000 in three years, added to
previous deficits of £1,575,000, which were long ago
added to the public debt and quietly put out of
sight. This is over £5 per inhabitant owing for
deficits alone—more than the total debt per inhabi-
tant of Austro-Hungary, Sweden, Norway, Switzerland
or Denmark, and about equal to that of the United States.
Yet the proposal to square the finances by a land-tax or
absentee-tax is repudiated with as much scorn as ever.
* » * *
The Bank of Victoria (Melbourne):
Dividends.
Preference Ordinary Added
Profit. 5 2J to Reserves
percent percent. Reserves
June, 1895 £19,863 £10,419 £9,444 £16,549
Dec., 1895 20,631 10,419 10,212 26,761
June, 1896 15,069 10,419 4,650 31,411
Dec., 1896 17,928 10,419 7,509 38,920
June, 1897 17,877 10,419 7,458 46,378
Dec., 1897 22,730 10,419 12,311 58,689
June, 1898 24,380 10,419 13,961 *72,650
Dec., 1898 27,800 10,419 17,381 90,031
June, 1899 27,637 10,419 17,218 107,249
Dec., 1899 27,906 10,419 17,487 124,736
June, 1900 28,554 10,419 £13,266 4,869 129,605
Ordinary
3 per cent.
Dec., 1900 30,178 10,419 15,919 3,840 133,445
June, 1901 31,399 10,419 15,919 5,061 138,506
Dec., 1901 33,136 10,419 15,919 6,798 145,304
Ordinary
3J per cent.
June, 1902 33,323 10,419 18,572 4,332 149,636
The earnings represent £4 2s. Id. per cent, per annum on
the shareholders’ funds as at the commencement of the
half-year (the figure for half-year to December, 1901, was
£4 2s. per cent.). The addition to the reserve fund is a
very substantial one ; still it is the smallest addition,
save one, for a long series Of years, and in view of the fact
that the increase of profits is very small, the Bank of
Victoria might better have postponed paying the extra £
per cent, to the ordinary shareholders till next December.
But, with all deductions, the institution is making far
better progress than most of its kind, and the lost reserves
have grown up again in a remarkable fashion.
Some of the principal items in the balance-
sheet compare with those of a year ago as follows: —
June, 1901. June, 1902.
Gash and liquid
securities .. £1,638,011 £1,552,651 Dec. £85,360
Advances .. 5,007,241 4,853,736 Dec. 153,505
Deposits.. .. 4,703,588 4,561,005 Deo. 142,583
Reserves.. .. 138,506 149,636 Inc. 11,130
As part of the decrease under the heading “ cash and
liquid securities,” it may be noted that the Bank of
Victoria’s holding of State securities has gone down
during the last year from £209,740 to £183,040,
a reduction of £26,700. Cash and liquid securities
represent 28J per cent, on all liabilities to the public,
which is solid enough for all purposes. _ All the same, the
reduction in the bank’s holding of public securities is not
a good point. The decrease in deposits is solely in the
matter of Government deposits; those of the public have
expanded slightly. Australian Governments are pretty
hard up these times, and haven’t much money to deposit
anywhere.
* • ■* *
The persistent misconduct of Gentleman One in
bolting with or losing the trust funds is at last bringing
to Gentleman One his natural reward. The N.S.W.
Government proposes following the Maoriland example
by creating a Public Trustee’s Department, and other
States will follow suit one by one. And, later op, it way
be found necessary to prohibit the private trustee alto-
gether, and absolutely take away from Gentleman One
and his kind a branch of business which has proved very
remunerative in the past, and which, but for the fleeting
character of the legal tribe, might have continued so in-
definitely. The lawyers have killed the goose that laid
their golden egg.
The Ballarat Banking Co. (Ballarat, Victoria)
has had a good half-year, its profits, though the increase
as compared with last half-year is not large, being the
best it has recorded for a long series of years
D Written f d „ ed Re-
Profits. Dividends. to Re- serves
serves.
Dec., 1895.. £3463 5J p. c.«£2337 £1126 '. £53,410
June, 1896.. 3249 5i „ 2337 912 64,322
Dec., 1896.. 2936 6i „ 2337 599 64,921
June, 1897.. 2880 5§ „ 2337 643 65,464
Dec., 1897.. 2636 54 „ 2337 299 55,763
June, 1898.. 2784 5J „ 2337 447 56,210
Dec., 1898.. 2906 6£ „ 2337 669 56,779
June, 1899.. 3022 5J „ 2337 685 57,464
Dec., 1899.. 2990 5| „ 2337 663 68,117
June, 1900.. 3153 54 „ 2337 816 68,933
Dec., 1900.. 3334 6 „ 2550 784 59,717
June, 1901.. 3542 6 „ 2550 £225 767 60,484
Dec., 1901'.. 3629 6 „ 2550 300 779 61,263
June, 1902.. 3689 6 „ 2550 1139 62,402
The earnings represent £6 os. lid. per cent, per annum
on the shareholders’ funds as at the beginning of half-
year, as against £4 19s. 9d. per cent, earned during half-
year to December, 1901. The addition made to the
reserves (£1139) is the largest for a very long time, and
the £62,402 of reserves are very solid for a small bank
with only £85,000 paid-up capital. During the last 12
months deposits by the public have increased by £4503.
Government deposits remain about stationary ; they
never amount to much in the case of the Ballarat Banking
Go. The reserve of cash and State and municipal securi-
ties is £72,356, equivalent to 31 per cent, on liabilities,
which is above the average.
* * * * .
When the D.T.’s commercial editor gave
evidence on the Greater Sydney scheme, almost the
first advantage that he pointed out would accrue from
the consolidation of the city was that borrowing would be
easier and cheaper. The D.T. has the disease in its bones,
and has become like a cancer building—everyone who
dwells there any length of time becomes contaminated.
Now “Australia’s Greatest Financial Authority is in-
fected.
, . • *• * . *
Further finds of rich. sulphide ore at Lobb’s
Hole, Kiandra (N.S.W.), reported. Every vein found so
far on this field has bulked from 28 to 30 per cent, copper.
The men with the luck to strike the mother lode will have
a real bonanza.
• * • *
“ Billy ” Barnett, who has paid several visits to
Australia, has been selected to assist Hr. Rich in examin-
ing the Great Cobar mine on behalf of the London option-
holders. They are to be accompanied by an accountant
from one of the big financial houses. It is expected that
the trio will leave London this week.
(Continued on page 30.)


MIDWINTER SALE.
PAVIP JOMES* COMPANY
SPECIAL PURCHASE 0F Anj?ricaD Sdit Cases
Haijdbags^^
Entire Stock of Manufacturer's Samples at Little
More than One-Half of the Usual Sydney Prices.
At Less Than
New York Prices.
Real Alligator Handbags, 15 and 18 inch, usual price 75s ; Sale Price, 37s 6d.
Real Alligator Suit Cases, 24 inch, usual price 6 Guineas ; Sale Price, 73s 6d.
Rea! Alligator Dressing Bags, 17 inch, usual price 97s 6d ; Sale Price, 49s 6d.
Real Horn-back Alligator Handbags, 14 and 16 inch, usual prices 52s 6d, 98s 6d ; Sale Prices, 32s 6d, 46s 6d
Polished Calf Suit Cases, 22 to 26 inch, usual prices 57s 6d, 755, 126 s ; Sale Prices, 39s 6d, 52s 6d, 635.
Dress «uit Cases, 20 to 24 inch, usual prices 755, 955 ; Sale Prices, 39s 6d, 62s 6d.
6EOR6E ai)d BARRACK STS., SYDNEY
HARRINGTON’S
LINE
Cameras from to £5O
and every conceivable Photo
Requisite and Novelty.
HARRINGTON’S
TRADE MARK
An Assurance of
Good Value.
HARRINGTON’S CARD
HARRINGTON & CO., Ltd.,
Photographic Merchants)
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY
AND
93 QUEEEN STREET, BRISBANE.'
Agents:
Craven A Co., Melbourne.
A. L. Tilly, Perth.
P. Ash, Hobart, Ac., Ac.
SOCIETY
According to Lord Hopetoun’s last sad
farewell to his Australian people, that slim gentle-
ma j ,! ad set lnrrlself the task of moulding and
.modelling the Australian Governor-General for
all time. He intended to form the lines on which
the office was to be run till the end of time, to
erect all precedents, and fashion the customs and
manners, and dot the “i’s” and cross the “t’s”
of the Federal gubernatorial business now and for
ever, amen. He regrets his failure in this matter
with quite a pathetic little break in his voice.
But there was too much frill on his shirt; his
scheme wanted too much postilion and outrider,
i nd R h k ' sto °kinged flunkey and gold lace and
brass band ; and so he stepped down and made
room for someone who would start the game on
simpler and cheaper lines, rather than go back
and set up shop in a humbler way. The
letter explains much. Nobody thought there
was method in Hopetoun’s mildness, and that
all the time he was trying to stamp his genteel
lineaments on our Constitution. His lordship was
flattered by the papers into considering himself
quite a powerful sort of Johnnie, whereas at his
best he was a weak, wire-drawn nobleman with a
nice smile. Had the papers let him alone, he
might have been content to be a fragile aristocrat
with an engaging smirk, and would have been as
good a Governor-General as Australia expects to
get from Mr. Joseph Chamberlain.
ITS MEANING.
DALLIDALLY (a chronic procrastinator): “I
dreamed last night that I — er — ah—proposed
to you. I wonder what that is a ‘sign of?”
MISS LINGERLONG (desperately): “It is a sign
that you have got more sense when you are
asleep than when you are awake.”
The Straits Times, a Singapore news-
paper, on the Australian Governor-General inci-
dent :
The question arises—Why should a rich country like
Australia grudge its Governor-General an adequate
Salary ? The answer is, that the Labor party—savagely
anti-imperialist and Republican in its tendencies, and
endowed by heritage, in many instances, with a genea-
logical tree that has its roots in Botany Bay—controls
the Commonwealth Parliament and goes in for petty
economies and gigantic jobs.
There is one radical mistake in this. A man who
was wise enough to have a convict for a grand-
father doesn’t become a Labor member in Aus-
tralia ; he is far more likely to draw thousands a
year in rents from the city property which his
ancestor got for being a reasonably good Convict
(the unreasonably bad convicts were not allowed
to leave any posterity), and sit in one of the Tory
Upper Houses.
The Melbourne press announcement that
Lord Hopetoun wished to call himself Marquis
of Linlithgow was made in defiance of a desire
that the new title should be kept dark until the
King had signified his approval, a question of
etiquette being involved. The next day, the dear
departed was waited upon by municipal and other
sycophants, several of whom called him “Marquis
of Linlithgow,” whilst one goatish person fra’ that
county slobbered poetically over the admirable
choice of a title. And it was beautiful to see the
perturbed Wallington dodging about behind the
wincing Hopetoun and trying to catch the mis-
guided slobberer’s eye.
* • » *
Governor Rawson was at the commercial
travellers’ dinner in Sydney on Saturday nigh c,
and left early on account of illness in his home.
It is a pity His Ex. did not happen to leave
before the political orations were made. It was
in shockingly bad taste for the speakers to intro-
duce party politics at a social function to which
the Governor was invited.
* * * *
The Clarkes are certainly the most retiring
gubernatorial family Victoria has yet known.
Were it not for occasional pars, in the “society ”
sections of the weekly press His Ex.’s women-folk
would scarcely ever be heard of. As for the
Governor himself, he bobs up at an occasional
assemblage of a dull and strictly moral character,
and speaks a few elevating sentiments in a small
voice, and the whole business is reported in the
obscure backblocks of the dailies under no-account
headlines. In editorial offices Gov. Clarke is
evidently of about the size and significance of a
half-pint of peanuts. The Argus, at least, ought
to know better. Even its readers will presently
be asking what’s the use of a Clarke who is prac-
tically only an Imperial clerk.
♦ * * •
Little Chief Justice Way, S.A.’s Lieu-
tenant-Governor, although Chancellor of the
University, is far from popular with the students,
who immercifully chaffed him at the laying of the
foundation-stone of the medical school this month.
Sammy lost his temper under the ordeal, which,
however, seemed on this occasion to be rather
enjoyed by Gov. Tennyson and other distinguished
onlookers. The C. J. lacks dignity, and has a lot
of little ways (not children, but manners) which
tend to make him ridiculous.
* * • *
Some Melbourne people who dearly love
to get their names into the papers, are just now
amusing themselyes with .the silliest sort of
philanthropic scheme that ever commended itself
to the wealthy unemployed. Inspired by Royal
and Mayoral example in the dear Homeland they
are taking up subscriptions for a dinner to the
Melbourne Poor, or some of them. One dinner,
whereat the guzzled crowd will be expected to
rejoice over their brief respite from “rats inside,”
on the understanding that the strange sense of
fulness is due to His Gracious Majesty. At time
of writing £35 “only” had been contributed
towards the blow-out fund, but more was expected.
If the Poor of Melbourne were consulted in
the matter, they would vote unanimously for a
rational distribution of the One Dinner fund in
relief doles of, say, 10s. per dole on the lottery
system, but the mere raising of coin for practical
charity purposes is not an attractive thing. The
promoters of Good Causes expect a special advt.
as a reward for their enthusiasm nowadays, and
the advt. must be of a fashionable character. A
reputation for having supplied a hungry mob with
one severe.dose of dyspepsia is the most fashion-
able notoriety in the market this Coronation year.
It entitles the favored individual to stretch forth
his hands over the temporary dining-table and
say, “ Bless you, my Feeders ! ” in a royal purple
tone.
* * * *
Commandant General Hutton swooped
down on Tasmania t’other day and straightened
up the local millingtary with a few well-chosen
expletives. That little job through, he took a look
round, and was promptly captured by the pushful
curator of Hobart Art Gallery, who is ever lying
in wait for titled personages. Next day the local
paper put it: —
The General, who is an authority on art, expressed
himself as very pleased with the Art Gallery collection,
and considers Mr. Piguenit the leading landscape painter
of Australasia, an honor Mr. Piguenit richly deserves.
It is kind of the General to so freely pass his
authoritative word for painters, but much of that
sort of thing will surely undermine the reputation
of his Blanky Oath. A military commander who
doesn’t keep his 8.0. above suspicion is altogether
too commpnplace for the Commonwealth.
» » * »
The daily papers don’t seem to tumble to
the fact that the cabled report from S’Africa that
Dan Kelly and Steve Hart, two members of the once
notorious Kelly gang of bushrangers joined one of the
Australian contingents under assumed names, and after
taking their part in the fighting returned to Australia
is obviously intended as a satire on the methods
of some of Australia’s gallant soldiers. It was a
smart satire, and it has got right home.
• * * *
Philp Govt, is really going in big licks
this time for raising funds. Price of a game of
billiards on the Parliamentary billiard-table has
been raised to threepence , and already the revenue
begins t.o feel the effects of the new tributary of
small silver. The Philpites are a people of big
notions.
TRYING TO FORGET.
JONES: “ What do you think of that cigar I gave you?”
SMITH : “ I don’t think of it at all — l’m trying to forget it.”
Senator Matheson, a wise man out of the
West, is hotly opposed to the 25 per cent, duty on
“brum.” jeweller-y, and in the House drew a
pathetic picture of the poor woman robbed of her
little adornments by a shameful tyranny. “To
the poor woman cheap jewellery is an absolute
necessity of life,” exclaimed Mr. Matheson pas-
sionately. “No sooner does she get a spare
shilling than she runs off to purchase a personal
adornment to attract the men. The women
wanted the franchise to be in a position to deal
with these very questions.” The spectacle of the
poor washerwoman robbed of her chance of fasci-
nating a man with, the baleful glitter, of a nine-
penny diamond, or forced to remain single because
of the shameful tax imposed upon matrimony by
the increase of 9d. a gross in brass wedding-rings,
so worked upon the philanthropic senator that his
speech was presently lost in a scream of indigna-
tion, and he collapsed in a state of temporary Free-
trade paralysis.
* • » •
Premier See has introduced the Eddy
Orphanage Bill, which provides for the establish-
ment of an institution for the care of fatherless
children of N.S.W. railway employees. The
funds have been raised by subscription, chiefly
from the railway staff, and the orphanage is to be
a lasting memorial of the deceased Commissioner.
Mr. Hollis, Labor Member for Newtown, and him-
self an ex-railway man, has formally protested
against the passing of the Enabling Bill. Hollis is
a man who takes a lively interest in charitable
effort, and he points out that throughout the
civilised world the system of incarcerating children
in institutions has been universally discarded in
favor of the family life obtained for the little ones
by boarding them out. Of course the bill will
pass, the subscribers can do what they like with
their own money, and, if they have decided on an
orphanage, they will most likely have it. All the
same, institution-life never yet did a child any
good.
• * * *
The Westralian Inspector-General of
Schools, who is still attracting t’otherside dominies
across, was able, last year, to pull up the aver-
age pay of head-teachers and assistants from
£l3l 18s. 9d. to £142 18s. 3d. But, taking his
business very seriously, as he ought, he thinks it
is still not nearly enough for men who have to do
“ the most important duties in the State,”
* * * »
The teachers in charge of over 300 of the
State schools in S.A. receive under £lOO a year.
There is even an assistant inspector of schools
(male) at £270 a year ! The Department appar-
ently reckons that youngsters drift into teaching
without, as a rule, quite knowing what they are
doing, and that, after a few years of it, being then
good for nothing else, they must stay on, even if
they are only offered two meals a day.
* * * *
Margaret Shepherd, the alleged-nun-
lecturer, was, in her t’other night’s Sydney lecture
“to men only,” a big disappointment to those
who expected “spice,” for nothing was said that
could “bring the blush,” &c.
* * * *
There is a movement to shift Sydney Zoo
to Parramatta. Parramatta, the Geelong of
N.S.W., is the sort of place where wild beasts
would probably feel at home.
Fifty or 60 or more
years hence a new trouble
will fall upon Australia—it
will begin to be haunted by
the old inhabitant who was
the first baby born in Aus-
tralia under Federation.
The eastern States were
federated earlier than the
middle and west; the union
began with the first second
of the year 1901, and, owing
to the difference of time,
the new year in Australia
begins in the east and
crawls westward like a
caterpillar ; therefore, as a
matter of strict accuracy,
the first baby was presum-
ably an Eastern baby. But
there is no official record to
show which baby it was,
and long years hence it
will have multiplied by
dozens ; it will be of both
sexes; it will be white,
black, and brown ; and it
will be bitterly indignant
because its word is doubted.
Likely enough, the first
Federal baby is already
dead, but that will make no
difference. The real infant
should have been officially
stamped.
* ♦ *
How’s this for a tem-
perance sermon ? A swaggie
recently, in the dark,
walked into the Campaspe,
off a bridge, and was
drowned. The body was
found lying across a log, in
mid-stream, the only part
out of the water being the
right hand, which still
grasped an unopened bottle
of beer. A bottle of same
was found in each side-
pocket of the coat—un-
broken—though the man’s
spine was fractured and his skull smashed by the
fall.
* » * *
Never be too civil. In a Victorian bush
town, recently, when theP.M. was paying a fort-
nightly visit to the Police Court, a neatly-dressed
young man of 25 took off his hat and said, cheer-
fully, as the buggy drew up, ‘ ‘ Good morning, Mr.
—-—-.” The P.M,, thinking he was a local
resident, of substance, advanced, and shook hands
with him cordially. In the third case called on,
the civil young man was arraigned for cutting
timber without a license. “ Ah,” remarked the
P.M. to a brother-Justice, “the young gentleman
I spoke to outside the Court. What is he?”
“ Don’t know what he is now,” replied the beak,
“ but a short while back he was boots at Smith’s
pub.” The P.M. was reckoned a lenient man,
who, in such cases, usually inflicted a half-crown
penalty. “What!?” he exclaimed, wrathfully.
“And the fellow had the impudence to shake
hands with me ! Fined £5 ! ”
» * * •
There must have been good pickings in
the recent Melbourne Simultaneous Mission. A
half-page in Saturday’s Abgtjs (not to mention
other papers) runs into a bit of money.
* * * •
Interesting details re Sydney, published
in “Treasury of Knowledge” (Longmans and
Co., London):
. . . The political metropolis of the Australian colonies.
Wool is the great article of export, and next to it an
whale oil, whalebone, and timber.
One of the prettiest things about the Beautiful
Harbor is the sight of the shoals of whales which
come up here to spend the winter.
THE UP-TO-DATE EXCUSE .
SHE: “I can’t go home with my hair all touzled
like this—mother would notice it.”
HE: “ Oh, that’s all right; say you’ve been playing
ping-pong.”


Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Adress.—
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-streeb
or King street, Sydney.*
trsde
lM Ois is wot
Igrov/don^v
Troubles.
HIS EXPERIENCE.
JUNIOR: “Do you think drink shortens a man's days.”
SENIOR: “I do. I was teetotal for a month once, and it seemed
like two years ”
A case was heard at Grafton (N.S.W.)
this month, when a charge of alleged cruelty to a
mite of seven years was preferred ag linst a
couple, man and wife, to whose care she had been
entrusted by her relatives. The police brought a
strong-looking case, but defendant’s lawyer, with-
out going into the evidence, successfully objected
that there was no “proof” that the Act under
which proceedings had been initiated extended to
Grafton. It is evident that someone blundered in
allowing the case to be squelched for want of
formal evidence which could easily have been got
ready.
* * * *
At last Adelaide Cremation Society has
advanced so far as to call tenders for the erection of
its furnace on the site granted by the Govt, near
North Terrace Cemetery. Millionaire Barr Smith
is one of the most enthusiastic members of the
society. The N.S.W. Cremation Society still
nominally exists, but it has not yet managed to
get an oven.
• • » *
Melbourne Hospital has gained a most
unsavoury notoriety over the case of James
M‘Kean. M‘Kean, who was an old Imperial
pensioner, was left at the hospital by a woman
who couldn’t explain what was the matter with
him, except that he was very ill and was spitting
blood. Then she went away—probably having
her own business to look after. No doctor
attended the old man. He was simply left
lying about for a little time and then handed
over to the police, and next day he
inconsiderately died in the gaol hospital, which
fact led to fuss and inquiry. If hospitals get into
the habit of having their patients arrested in this
off-hand fashion for being illegally on the premises,
or something like that, then the popular idea of a
hospital wants revising. It used to be a place
where the sick were taken in. If it is to be a
place whence the sick are thrown out, then it
wants a chief bruiser and wrestler in charge
instead of a doctor.
* * « *
A candid plaintiff in a Melbourne Court
lately explained some of the amusements of his
“push.” It was originally a football club, but
developed into a push, and it used to meet on
some vacant land behind Collingwood Town Hall.
They would sit along the rails and “ number off.”
Sometimes they would sit on a rail from 6 till
12 p.m. They discussed football matches and had
arguments. Most of them did nothing. The
gentleman was suing for wrongful arrest for
vagrancy, and, as most of his mates had been
more or less frequently convicted, his case broke
down badly. But sitting on a rail for six solid
hours and arguing the point —what joy !
THE REASON.
ACQUAINTANCE OF HIS HUMBLE DAYS : “ Blimee!
YOU taken to the music ’oris! Wot made
yer chuck yer oyster-barrer?”
THE LOIN COMIQUE : “ Well, yer see, I lost my
voice.”
“Look in the papers every morning and
you will find publicans advertising for pretty girls
with fair hair. Now, it does not require fair hair
and Blue eyes to draw beer.” — Moral reformer in
Melb. On the other hand, look in at the temper-
ance institution, and say does it require thin hair,
sharp features and spectacles to draw tea ? The
publican, at least, has horse-sense, and knows
what it takes to draw men.
• •* * *
In Vic. railway refreshment rooms you
may obtain a shilling standing-up meal —fried
chops, steaks and sausages, and mostly a lot more
is cooked than is eaten. The joker knew this
and solemnly said to the waitress, “ Miss, my
doctor has ordered me to eat oidy chops, steaks
and sausages that have been fried several times; can
you give me anything of that sort ? ” The young
thing looked joyful. “ I can, sir ! ” she replied,
breathlessly. “Well,” he said, coldly, “give me
cold corned beef, please.”
“ Adelaide ” sends a
Fable for Wives:
An enthusiastic Female
Cricketer, having Won the
Toss in a game of Single
Wicket, joyfully went In to
Bat. For awhile she Batted
carefully, but afterwards she
grew Careless.
“Excuse Me,” said the
Umpire. “ None of My Busi-
ness. But if you go on Like
This you will certainly Knock
Down your Own Wicket.”
“ There is No Danger,” said
the V >man.
“ There is Always Danger,”
said the Umpire. “ And the
Other Woman is very Keen
on getting an Innings. Her
Bowling is Feeble, and you
can stay In pretty well All
your Life if you care to Try.
But if you Knock Down your
Own Wicket you will cer-
tainly be Out.”
However, the Game con-
tinued As Before.
“ Why is the Crowd Laugh-
ing?” said the Woman at
length.
“ Because you have Put
Yourself Out as I Foretold,”
said the Umpire. “ And the
Other Woman has been Having
her Innings for Some Time
without your Knowing.”
“Then it is a Sin and a
Shame 1” she said. “ Also it
is Not Cricket.”
Moral: What is Worth Winning is Worth Keeping.
« * • *
The greatest white slave of the day is the
lady-help. Here is a list of every-day duties
which one lady-help found posted in her room in
a Melbourne suburban house :
Up at 6 a.m. After lighting fires, sweep breakfast-
room, dust and prepare breakfast for 7.45. During break-
fast-time sweep verandah, clean and lay dining-room
fires, sweep carpets and dust, wash dishes [glass and
silver first]. Tea-towels to be washed and put online
each morning, after each washing-up. Empty slops and
thoroughly clean basins and baths. All towels in the
house to be put on the lines. Knives to be cleaned after
every meal. After making beds, sweep and dust all the
rooms every day. Bath-rooms and halls to be
swept and dusted every morning. Alternate Mon-
days the washing to be damped and folded. Scullery,
sink, cupboard, boiler and troughs to be thoroughly
scrubbed every day. Windows and Venetian blinds
cleaned and washed on Mondays. Ironing on Tuesdays.
Bedrooms and kitchen washed out thoroughly on Wednes-
days, and the stoves and ovens cleaned. Halls and
bath-rooms, press, pantry, knife-boxes, safes and dressers
washed on Fridays. Kitchen stove and ovens, scullery
and vegetables prepared for Sunday. All brass-work
cleaned twice a week, also out-houses.
Then followed this elaborate note as to how the
washing was to be done:—
On Fridays clean boiler with bathbrick and vinegar.
Soak clothes Saturday morning. The sheets, pillow-cases
and tablecloths in No. 1 trough. Skirts, shirts, and all
under-linen in No. 2 trough. Towels, dusters, etc., in
No. 3 trough. The clothes in No. 2 trough are to be
washed on Saturday afternoon ready for boiling on Mon-
day morning. The clothes after being boiled must be
rinsed in No. 1 trough, blued in No. 2, the wringers to be
used always, the washing-hoard only for towels. All
flannels must be washed in three waters. When the
washing is finished, draining-board, sink, cupboard,
under-sink, troughs, boiler-lid, floors, &e., to be all
thoroughly cleaned and scrubbed. The bath, sink, etc.,
to have two bucketsful of boiling suds.
All this work bad to be carried on along with the
household cooking and ordinary household duties.
The rate of wage was ten shillings a week. Part of
the moral is that every girl, if she has to go into
the domestic circle, should go there as Bridget
Murphy, pot-walloper, with plenty of sass for the
missus, instead of as poor, trembling Miss Smith,
lady-help. The catalogue above printed is also a
powerful illustration of the good time which
awaits hundreds of nice girls when the Women’s
Christian Temperance Union shall have succeeded
in abolishing the barmaid (who now gets £1 a week
at least, and the best of food at the hotel table,
likewise presents of gloves and theatre-tickets,
and a reasonable chance of showing herself off to
advantage among marriageable men) and forces
her into the hideous gloom of sweated domestic
service in a pious and underfed family of Ranters.
A good gratitude story is told by
Mr. W. Steedman, formerly owner of
Williamstown (Melb.) baths. One day,
he saw a man, manifestly unable to
swim, dive into about 12ft. water.
Steedman plunged in to the rescue, and
eventually both were brought ashore
much exhausted. Steedman soon re-
covered, and helped in restoring the
other to consciousness. At last, the
stranger was able to swallow some of
Steedman’s brandy, and, after being
warmed up with hot bottles from
Steedman’s house, was dressed in a
suit of Steedman’s clothes, and led to
a cab paid for by Steedman. “Well,”
he said in farewell, “I’ll take good
care never to come near your blanky
baths again ! ”
A letter from Vereeniging, S’Africa,
states that peace was signed at one minute to mid-
night on Saturday, 31st May. This one minute
meant a good deal, as wagering was very warm on
the event. The odds were stol on Peace —even
money it would not be signed before the Ist June.
* * * *
An Australian schoolboy who will rise—his
letter:—
I am awfully hard up send me a sovereign and God be
with you.
Your son, Jack.
Enterprise and religion—that is the proper caper.
*
A correspondent :
For some murky reason the Brisbane dailies omit all
mention of the fact that there are two separate trials
going on at Mitchell in which two men are charged as
being accessories (after the fact) in connection with the
Kenniffs. This suppression of good copy wants account-
ng for.
Recently an Adelaide servant was delivered
of twins in the back yard of her mistress’s house.
Then she went inside, wrapped them in paper,
and, going to the Salvation Army shelter, asked
for a bed. They sent her to the Destitute
Asylum, where she was taken in, and at latest
both babies were alive and well. The curse of
Eve evidently weighed but lightly on that poor
mother.
* • » *
“P.C.0.0.” on Victorian police :
It’s a thousand to one that that Vic. police inquiry will
prove a fizzle. Narrowed down, the charges don’t amount
to anything like what they appear on paper. One
regarding the alleged conviction of men known to be
innocent is several years old ; and, as to it, whether true
or not, evidence will be impossible to obtain. Other
charges are trivial, others are merely word against word.
But while the investigation is proceeding, some inquiries
might be made re the Orange and Green factions in the
Vie. force. The public would be paralysed to hear the
evidence at the average police inquiry board. The usual
procedure is for a senior officer of one color to lay a charge
(say) of drunkenness against a junior cop of the other,
whereupon six or seven other policemen of their respec-
tive colors turn up cheerfully to swear— one side, that
the man was hopelessly and fearfully drunk, the other
that he was as sober as the presiding officer of the
inquiry. If the public only knew the class of evidence
tendered by constables about one another, they would
marvel at the comparative truthfulness of the bobby
when he testifies against strange civilians in Court.
• * * *
A correspondent:—
The state of the grass in most Sydney parks is simply
disgusting, from the filthy habits of loafers. Except in
the Botanic Gardens, there is no grass-space in all Sydney
where a child can play in safety. Now in Germany
children have places reserved for their use, and are pro-
vided with clean sandheaps as well. Why cannot a small
portion of each Sydney park be railed off for children,
and provided with a heap of clean beach sand ?
* * * *
“ Jonesey”
writes from
Pal merston
(M.L.) :
Very notice-
able about here
at present are
the Mormon
elders kicking
round. They are
easy to pick,
and no good
judge of char-
acter would
choose most of
them to accom-
pany his sister
home on a dark
nigh t. They
have a style all
their own of
getting' hold of
the gilt in this
country. Their
work lies chiefly
among the
Maoris, and
they hold a
larger sway with
these people
than all the
other denomin-
ations put to-
gether. (I am
speaking for the
North Island
and from per-
son al experi-
ence. What few
Maoris there are
in the South
Island need not
be taken into
consideration).
All the other
sky - pilot cad-
gers go to the
native and ask
straight out for
his money in
cash. Not so the
Mormon. He
sees with what
reluctance the
Maori lets go of
the all - power-
ful ; so he be-
gins by teaching
his stomach to
stand dried
shark, mutton-
bird, raw pawa,
&c. In fact, he
lives with the
native, and does
all he can to
please in order
to effect his
purpose, and,
after getting
the run of the
ropes, he “ kids”
the native to give him a horse to go round and preach.
This nag the Saint sells at first opportunity, then pads the
hoof to the next pah and goes through the same perform-
ance. These elders have a hang-dog expression, but
have their eyes keenly open to biz. About three years
ago, when Te Whiti prophesied the end of the wofld on a
certain date, his followers believed him and did their
best to put away as much “waipiro” as the time would
allow. Monev running short, they sold their horses,
cattles, and pigs at next door to nothing. I knew
one Mormon elder pretty well, and about a fort-
night after Te Whiti’s prophecy had fizzled, he said to
me : “ Say, mate, how did you come out of that ‘ gineral
resurrection’business?” “I bought five horses out of
the pound,” I said, “ and will clear about £20.” “ Well,”
said the Saint, “ I reckon I got on the right side of the
Almighty over it too.” He had bought jewellery, horses,
clothing, and all sorts of property from the poor devils.
Yet these Mormons have a bigger hold among the
Maoris to-day than ever, and I don’t suppose 20 per cent,
of Maorilanders know that there are Mormons working
among them. I have seen, at a native pah, other
preachers of the Gospel accost these Saints, supposing
them to be Maori pakehas. In fact, I myself never see an
undesirable-looking white knocking round among the
natives without asking if he is a Mormon elder.
* * * *
The Bulletin notes with pride and plea-
sure that at the meeting of the Commonwealth
Lodge No. 12, Royal Ancient Order of Buffaloes,
Balmain, the Grand Primo, Sir George Some-
body, made a presentation to the Primo and
raised him to the rank of “ City Marshal. ” It is
pleasant to know that the Ancient Buffaloes can
—like King Ned and the Pope -knight a man
and make him a “ Sir,” and can also raise a man
—a Balmain man, too—to be a city marshal.
When the Royal Order of Modern Goats, in
addition, becomes addicted to creating dukes and
earls and marquises at its monthly meetings, and
showers G.C.M.G.’s around the suburbs between
drinks, it ought to take some of the curl out of
John See’s K.C.M.G-. tail and impress upon the
people generally the ludicrousness of the title
business.
* * • *
At St. Arnaucl (Yic.), recently, a man
burst his left eye whilst blowing his nose, and the
injured optic had to be extracted to save the right
one. Which recalls the famous Italian tenor who
broke his collarbone in taking a high note.
The St. George’s Hospital (N.S.W.) chain-
letter scandal is still unsettled. It is an eloquent
argument in favor of some stringent regulation by
law for the auditing by public officials of all
charity collections. No one, however pure his
or her motives, should be allowed to appeal to tha
public on behalf of a charity without some pro-
vision for a stringent audit of accounts.
* * * *
The most daring of fictionists would
hardly venture upon presenting such an episode
as that in which, the other day, three men held
desperately on to the ankle of a lunatic, hanging
head-down wards from the window of a carriage in
a train running at 50 miles an hour on a Victorian
railway. The maniac, who was in the custody
of a policeman, had managed to slip -off the
handcuff by which he was attached to
another prisoner, and it was this prisoner
who was barely in time to get a grasp on
the other man’s trousers as he dived out to
destruction. Then the constable and another
passenger laid hold also, but so furiously did the
madman struggle that he got clear, all but one
foot, to which his rescuers held grimly on until
some line-repairers signalled the engine-driver,
and the train was pulled up, barely in time to
prevent the man from being smashed against a
post which stood close to the line.
• * * *
Adelaide has four or five bibulous old
women who are competing for a most-convictions
record. Under the idiotic system which awards
these diseased cranks for each “offence” just
enough gaol to make them thirsty, it has been
possible for the youngest of the competitors to
pile up 100 convictions since 1884. An older
hand has reached the 200 mark.
SACRIFICIAL MELBOURNE.
PARALYSED ABRAHAM (in Bourke-street): “ What a holy people these
Melbournites are!”
Justice Cohen, president of N.S.W.
Arbitration Court, taking his vacation on the
stroke of the clock, despite the pressure of busi-
ness, strikes a number of workers as a serious
grievance. But that is really a workmanlike prin-
ciple : down tools when time is up. The way
over the difficulty is either to pay Justice Cohen
overtime rates, or put another hand on the Bench
to cope with the rush of work. It is true that in
the days of Forbes and Dowling, N.S.W. Judges
had no settled holiday season. They worked from
year’s end to year’s end ; but in those days work-
no men had no eight hours and overtime rates.
EUPHROSYNE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
How fairer than the first spring bud, with show’rs
Endiamonded,
You are to me,
O four-years-wed,
Euphrosyne—
Who, like the lime, at once give fruit and flowers.
P.F.R.


Do you like Coffee r
Perfect, Pure,
Fragrant, Exhilarating Coilee
Then Try
M.SIWTH’Si
Cold
Medal
Coffee Essence
THE VERY BEST
Australian Representatives:
SWIFT & COMPANY,
V 7 SPRING STREET, V
SYDNEY.
Dress PABRies
Are Stocked bv the
Leading Drapers.
THE VARNISHED BOARD,
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
P.D. Corsets }
Latest Specialty, Straight Front, Erect Form
{ P.D. Corsets
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
~ _. a Sydney, July 22, 1902.
Mr Dear Arini.—
• 1?“? sorr 7 Scheme of Things isn’t much sorrier
in Sydney itself than when I wrote several days
ago. State Ex and family are quite well • and
Mr. vy. H. Howe, vice-regal private-sec., is
recovering from his attack of typhoid. Strange
what a number of persons who live in Govt
Houses get typhoid ! Every vice-regal residence
in this continent and in M.L. has had its share of
the disease. -Mr. Rowe’s attack supervened upon
influenza. Doctor Fiaschi is doing the pulse-
feelmg and prescription-writing at Cranbrook,
where the patient is being nursed.
Most persons’ dancing-shoes are worn as thin as
sixpence, but, fortunately, the ball, charity and
otherwise, is rolling more infrequently, and their
Exes, are getting a rest from that form of duty to
the Empire. But, as a counter-irritant, they are
being played and sung silly. There are concerts
m the afternoon, and concerts at night by well-
known artists ; and recitals by someone quite
new on every washing-day.
v .Max Schliiter, with his Beethoven face and
big head, closed his season at the Centenary
Hall on Tuesday, just as Sydney society, en-
lightened by Danish residents, was about to
realise that the violinist’s family is personally
friendly with Danish royalty, and that one of his
uncles is an admiral. These things are better
than many sonatas to persons who have gone re-
cently to Heralds’ College to find a grandfather.
When Max was younger he used to rob the cab-
horses on the stand near his school of their tails,
to weave into violin-strings. Old cigar-boxes
supplied the wood work.
In sheep and cattle lands in this State, and
beyond it, the Scheme of Things is sorrier than
ever. A squatter writer (his young head that
was sable, slightly silvered in a few months) has
fled from his cattle lands to an obscure little
coast, town, simply to get away from the cruelty
of witnessing the Potter thumping his Clay so
heavily.
Excellent Rawsons were at the ball in aid of
Balmain Hospital last Wednesday. It was a
brilliant moonlight night, and as tliey drove over
the (new) Pyrmont bridge His Ex. and partygave
several delighted bleats. The wide bay, the ships
that seemed to dream at anchor over their inverse
shadows, the long, quivering filaments of light on
the water, the silence, the slight white mist that
shut out unsightly details. It was a good sight.
The Balmainers had decorated their hall beauti-
fully, and the supper-tables had the first
all-wattle adornments of the season. Fol-
lowing night a juvenile fancy-dress ball' was
held, and a “Pillar-box,” an “Old English
Gentleman,” a “Peace” (white wings and olive
branch) were awarded prizes by the judges. A
lovely little three-year-old girl, “Snowflake”
(chiffon over green silk, strewn with flowers),
danced with perfect precision and gravity in the
Lancers, doing her “steps,” and, when she had
to bow to her partner, kneeling on one chubby
knee.
“ Youth’s sweet-scented manuscript ” (edited by
playwright Esmond) presented (closed and open)
under the name of “When We Were Twenty-
one,” by the Broughs, will be probably a great
success.. Men of 40 will rush it, if only to learn if
“the trinity” were the same kind of fools that
they themselves were at 21. And boys and girls
of 21 will seek it to snatch the fearful joy of see-
ing a scarlet woman (in training for marriage into
the British peerage). Before “this person”
appeared, and all the time that the poster which
the players could see on the hoarding outside the
stage setting was being described, an elderly gen-
tleman seated in the aulienee near me was irri-
tatedly saying to his wife, “Why can’t we see
the picture, too ? Brough should have managed
to bring the poster into view !” His wife must
have been of the order that is above rubies, for
she tried to soothe him with “But you’ll see the
woman herself, presently.”
The play is full of points that appeal to the
vanity of certain persons. ‘ ‘ My mother, ” remarks
the ingenue, “says that quiet fair men are always
like that” (lady-killers and other things); and
straight every fair man in the audience, even
though he be louder than a steam siren, blushes
like a peony and looks down at his shoes, and his
darker friends nudge him knowingly, saying
“Ah, ah !” The writer of “W.W.W.2I’-’ is keen
on the theme of the 20-years-old girl in love with
the 40-years-old. man, and the man of 40 in love-
on the stage—is adorable; he does make such a
new kind of idiot of himself. The girl, one must
confess, is a very Rosalind in the courage with
which she does the running, and the initiative she
takes in the love-making.
The Broughs mostly have a nice breakfast-
table, at which none but the stout mother eats
anything, and a nice (I suppose, tvpical) English
girl skirmishes round for fresh toast. Then there
are men in correct evening dress and dainty
modern rooms, with high, ruby-shaded lamps, and
a portrait of the ingenue on the wall. She is so
sweet, so good, and wearisome. Now the red
woman—well, “moral qualities rule the world,
but at short distances the senses are despotic.”
Mrs. Brough, as the somewhat scarlet woman,
makes a splendid picture in her rose-pink satin
and jewels, and she acts the soulless daughter of
the . horse-leech admirably. A packed and
fashionable house greeted her. One of the
fashionables had a black bird fastened to her left
eyebrow. It may have been tethered to her hair,
but it certainly roosted on her eyebrow. Nellie
Stewart got a spontaneous burst of applause when
appeared in the managerial box. Mrs. J. C.
M iihamson, back from the Mountains that are
called Blue, was also present.
The Ladies Educational Council at Leeds is
training young women for the positions of wives in
the colonies, yet, according to our latest local
statistics, if they come out here they will only
have seven-eighths of the chance of a husband
which they would have enjoyed had they stayed
in England, Anyhow we shall welcome the
trained-in-household-work young woman, for if
she doesn’t get a man she’ll have the refusal of a
dozen good situations. Other day a Sydney lady
advertised for. a “general” and amongst her
replies was this one: “Madam.—l am willing
to accept the position. Yours affectionately,
A.Z. R.S.V.P.” If the Leeds E.C. would
only . send out some cooks! Cooks have an
especially good time in Australia, even to the ex-
tent of possessing visiting-cards with (in one in-
stance of which I know) their employer’s address
and their nights at home printed thereon.
Speaking at annual meeting of the Cleveland-
street Working Girls’ Club awhile ago State Gov.
Rawson suggested that, if some of the ladies
present who had cooks of their own at home
would send them down to the club once a month,
or so, to give lessons to the girls, an immense
benefit would result to the future husbands
and children of those girls. South Kensington
(England) School of Cookery has opened a
new branch for the purpose of training ladies
to take posts as housekeepers and matrons
and cooks. The school is also receiving girls of
gentle birth, but scanty means, who wish to
become professional cooks.
The First Lord of the British Admiralty has
asked, so the cables tell us, whether the Colonies
fully realised what the Royal Navy meant to
them, and we answer—if the colonial men don’t,
the women do. Naval engagements don’t neces-
sarily mean two armoured ships trying to sink
each other. Naval husbands are very nice ; naval
hops are very nice ; naval bands are delightful;
afternoon tea on board the warships charming;
naval men are exquisite flirts, because of the
practice they have. Oh, yes ! We know what
the Navy means.
Commandant F. H. Brownlow, the new head
of N.S.W. Naval Brigade, turns out to be a
brother of Wallace 8., the baritone. He is 43
years of age, and biographies of him don’t say
whether he is married or not. His father was
an officer in the Coldstream Guards, and served
through the Crimean war, and his mother was
associated in the campaign with Florence Night-
ingale. He came to Australia many years ago,
and his portraits show him to be very like his
melodious brother.
Miss Myrtle Meggy, a fresh girl of nearly 15,
on whose behalf friends of the late Sydney Moss
are exerting themselves, was a favorite pupil of
the deceased musician, who, had he lived,
would have personally guided her on her upward
musical way. She was 12 when her late master
introduced her to the critics at a pianoforte
recital, where she played among other numbers, by
heart, a Mozart Concerto and the Sonata “Pa-
thetique.” He again brought her forward last year
at a concert, and in her programme on that occa-
sion were two Beethoven Sonatas, a Concerto by
Mendelssohn, and several of Bach’s Preludes.
Mr. Moss thought highly of his pupil’s sympathy
and promising technique. At the meeting con-
vened at Paling’s last week to provide funds for
the completion of Miss Meggy’s musical education,
it was decided that, in place of a concert, subscrip-
tions be raised, and the sum of £lOl was donated
on the spot. Messrs. J. Lemmone and H. N.
Southwell are hon. secs, of the fund, and Messrs.
Paling and Co. hon. treasurers.
The Highland Society ball, to which the State
Governor and family came about 11 o’clock, was
very poorly attended. Dancing space was so
great that the women need not have held up their
trains, which the majority did all the evening,
whether walking or dancing—held them high, as
if out of ankle-deep mud. There were not many
kilties, and no bagpipes. No one danced the
Highland Fling or the Sword Dance, and there
was but one Highland Reel—hid far down the
programme. There was a total absence of brown-
heath and-shaggy-wood atmosphere about the
frisk, and no haggis at the supper, and no one
looked like Helen, the Lady of the Lake, and
Patron Normand MacLaurin didn’t look a bit
Fitzjamesy. One there was of noble bearing and
tartan_ (and black knees) who might have been
Roderick Dhu. Presently he glanced up at the
gallery and displayed a truly Cockney counten-
ance.
So I went away to see the last of “ Sweet Nell
of Old Drury.” What a hairy period was hers !
We are sorry to see the last of those lovely wigs,
flaxen, gold, auburn, and red. Harcourt Beatty’s
Charles II has mellowed to the acme of what we
think the gay, kind, careless, dignified king ought
to have been. The swoon of Lady Olivia (Miss
Minnie Vernon) remains one of the best stage
faints I ever saw. She drops like a feather
cushion. We said good-bye regretfully to that
beautiful stage setting—the room in which Lord
Jeffreys dispenses injustice, so softly red and redly
soft it is, until the lighted tapers send bars of
amber athwart its floor. Its stained windows, oak
panelling, armour suits, and real old oak furniture,
make it a, room for inspiration. As for Miss
Stewart, she has the tenacity of a beaver. For
the last fortnight she has been really ill of influenza
and yet. she played with undimmed brightness
Friday’s two performances. It was in a very
broken voice she spoke a few farewell words to the
packed enthusiastic audience. The matinee per-
formance was in aid of the poor children of
Sydney and the Maternity Home, and realised
£l5O.
Australian artists, Streeton, Minns, Fullwood,
and Thorpe, all had their pictures rejected by the
Royal Academy. Streeton’s picture, on which
the other artists say he intended to stake his
reputation, is said to be the finest thing he has
done. Spence got in with some small work, but
there’s a difference between hanging a little
picture and a huge one. The Sydney local
art societies, which are said to have amal-
gamated, will hold an Exhibition next September,
but in which set of rooms has not been decided.
If the senior society is wise it won’t select its own
eyry, for only wealthy people buy pictures, and
wealthy people are mostly fat and won’t walk up
stairs.
A feature of Sydney Orchestral Society’s
fine concert at the Town Hall last Thursday
was the audience’s reception of the magnificent
Wagnerian “Funeral March,” played in memory
of the dead Sydney Moss. When the last note
had died away, and the waving arms of Hazon
were still, one solitary, timid clap was heard,
and then a silence that was tremendous in
its intensity as the crowded house waited with
bated breath, not knowing that the end had
come. When it woke from its reverie Hazon had
gone, and Morley was coming back to the piano,
and the first notes of Litolff’s Scherzo for piano
and orchestra were sounding down the crowded
galleries.
Mrs. John Jaquet, wife of the IST. S. W. assistant
Government Geologist, died at Petty’s Hotel
early on Saturday morning, aged 21 years. She
had, sad to relate, been married but a few months
and was ill only a week. Mrs. Jaquet was a
daughter of Mr. Hugh Campbell, of Belaringa
Station, and sister to Dr. Alfred and Dr. Robert
Campbell.
The ball in aid of St. Margaret’s Maternity
Home takes place next Tuesday, July 29.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The marriage of Speaker Mason’s daughter
with an Amsterdam gentleman, Mr, Van Cooth,
was the occasion of a large corroboree last
Wednesday. The marriage vows were breathed
at the side altar of St. Patrick’s Cathedral—the
centre one being under repair. Onlookers crowded
guests to the back. Three clergymen gave an
extra-tight tug to the true lovers’ knot. After
they had finished, Archbishop Carr added to his
blessing some pearls of wisdom as to why and
wherefore wives should honor and obey their
hubbies, and so on. The guests fidgetted incon-
tinently, with vulgar visions of a delayed recep-
tion._ There was more dallying at the registry-
signing than usual, the Archbishop taking Gov.
Clarice in tow to see the wonderful Mosaic
altar that he takes so much pride in. Miss
Marie Mason, an unaffected, charming girl,, made
a fair picture as a bride, her raiment running
to soft pearl-toned silk, with borderings of
applique, chiffon ruchings, and good point-lace
additions—a simple toilette, losing nothing for an
absence of hyperbolous decoration.
“There was no barring of St. Patrick’s Cathedral
against any would-be worshipper at the marriage
of Speaker Mason’s daughter. Tramps and blind
beggars strayed in to pray or snooze, with their
dogs. One tyke, a grimy fox-terrier, jumped into
the laps of fashionable guests till the joke lost its
freshness. Then he called three other curs to
mount the scaffolding in his company so as to
get a better view of the hitching-on. The
quartette got into trouble up there and were
chased, but came to the front again when a matted
poodle jumped on the train of the new Mrs. Van
Cooth as she swept down the aisle on hubby’s arm.
Someone threw a brolly at the brute, and gamp
and pup travelled some paces on the snowy
draperies, the bride fancying, perhaps, that it was
her new dignity which weighed her down so
heavily.
“Gov. Clarke gave a solemn dissertation on the
estate of ‘ mixed couples ’ at the wedding-banquet
in the Exhibition. He delivered this marriage
homily in his best public manner, was quite fluent,
sounded no sentiments, you know, but voiced
some solid every-day truths in good style. But
the groom made the hit of the day with his pithy
speech, which abounded in humor. He infused
some foreign grace into a ceremony that John
Bull ever makes a bore. The conventional
wedding-toast is probably the dreariest thing on
earth.
“ Mrs. (Premier) Irvine looked well in blue at
the Mason wedding. One of the most graceful
girls on hand was a willowy Melbourne niece of
Roly-Poly Reid—whose junior relatives, fortun-
ately, don’t resemble Nunky in figure. Mrs.
Butler, in a furry, black coat, and all her mass of
flaxen hair piled up as usual, brought along quiet,
elderly hubby to behold the matrimonial sacrifice.
“ The city had sleep still in its eyes when Gov.
Tennyson and his life-partner arrived on Thursday
morning. A tarpaulined garden on the platform,
with ‘ Welcome ’ signs writ above and about in
flaming red letters, greeted their view as the
Adelaide train steamed in to the Spencer-st.
platform, at the very spot where. Gov.-Gen. Hope-
toun and some ancient sinners had wept a fort-
night before. The square heavy face of the poet’s
son remained impassive, while he distributed
mandarin nods along the road. But the amiable
and perky lady by his side sat forward and nearly
nodded her head off.
“A staid assemblage of social and political big-
wigs sat round the Queen’s Hall in a circle,
waiting for the oath and the chosen chief to
arrive. To a clanking accompaniment of spurs
and swords, Gov. Tennyson solemnly walked bn
and took his place on the dais, with the statued
Queen looking down upon his shining crown-piece.
The most surprising part of the ceremony was the
vigorous and impassioned delivery of the newly-
elected deputy G.G. The speech took on wonder-
fully, the tired air of theearly gathering disappeared.
Society, rather repelled of old by the Sphinx-like
Tennyson during his occasional visits to this side,
went away with a big opinion of the person who
could throw a fair muster of good ideas off his
chest in such rousing style.
“Did you notice in Lord Hopetoun’s photo., in
last week’s Bulletin, how wondrously his over-
coat is built? That is the very latest freak of
the smart tailor, to dispense with arm-hole seams
altogether, and, in some occult way, to cut sleeve
and body in one piece, like the Holy Coat of
Treves, joining the top of the sleeve in a stitched
seam running right up into the collar. An Aus-
tralian man, lately returned from London, says
that the first man he saw with such a garment on
was Mr. Chamberlain, so it must be all right.
“Young Frank Clarke’s son (born at Oxford,
where boyish pa pursues his studies) is the late
Baronet Clarke’s grandson, and so far the heir,
provided by the third generation, to the baronetcy!
S’Rupert has no sons ; his brother Ernest and his
stepbrother Russell are, as yet, unmarried. Baby’s
mamma was formerly Miss Cotton, of Daylesford,
a cousin of dowager Janet.
“An exodus to India’s coral strand is com-
mencing. One of the Melbourne girls who was
wedded there this year gives glowing accounts of
the preponderance of the marrying man in that
golden land. She invites her friends to come, and
pray for judgment meanwhile, for their choice
will be stiffer than ever was that of Paris with his
three willing goddesses on the counter. Her rosy
views seems a bit De Rougemontish, but her own
prosperous match rather gives some foundation to
her rallying cry. Next month the exodus com-
mences in real earnest, when a party of charmers
sets out. And others, dolefully contemplating
their arid prospects in Melbourne, will follow suit.
“The other night, at ‘The Chinese Honey-
moon,’ Better-Not Wallington sat with three
English new-chums. Wally had his glasses most
of the night focussed on the four Pineapple brides-
maids, and he laughed all round the ears at Fi
Fi’s digs at the haristocracy. Wally was jovial.
He had got Hopetoun off the mark, and kicked *
free leg.
“One couldn’t sample ‘The 0. Honeymoon’
any night without confronting Mrs. Norman
Menzies (Dorothy Vane) in box or circle. Mrs.
Menzies avowedly loves May Beatty, and watches
for her new business, her fresh smudges, and her
latest wiles with an appreciative eye. The ex-
actress declares that she loves the theatre more
and more every day, but that she wouldn’t be
back on the boards for even a Melba boom. But,
then, nobody quite believes what an ex-actress
says about her Lost Paradise.
“Miss Maud Hartington, who played the
Princess in ‘ Aladdin, ’ and won some of the laurels
of the show, has retired to private life, resumed
her old name, her family ties, and talks
with pathos of her trials and tribulations
in stageland. Miss Jenkins found the theatrical
life irksome in the extreme, the moving of
goods and chattels a frightful fag, and applause
and such, poor reward for the amount of work
and nerve strain involved. The bizarre ways of
the stage were peculiarly trying to a sensitive
little novice, not long from her desk at the
Presbyterian Ladies’College and the Wiedermann
Conservatorium ranks. She cut herself adrift
from a stage career after the ‘ Aladdin ’ run, and
now shines modestly in her mother’s circle.
“The Victorian artists recognise that the pub-
lic’s taste for art has to be tickled with musical
morsels and jam sandwich, so sing-songs have
been switched on to the present exhibition, and
amateurs tootle while visitors meander around the
pictures. Conspicuous at almost all the receptions
is Pastor Bevan. That divine is so constantly
piloting people over the Gallery where his portrait
hangs, that he probably pitched his tent in the
district for the Exhibition. The good man’s vanity
would awaken the laughter of an owl. He can’t
keep away from that luminous sketch of himself
in oils. He squints at it ever and anon, and
during one concert, when he had to sit in an
adjoining gallery, took a position which com-
manded a view of his other sell.
“The eldest daughter of ‘Napoleon ’ Fitzgerald
has a pretty Sandringham scene in this year’s
exhibition. Society credits the industrious girl
with all the virtues of a saint. Her domestic
qualities run into a lengthy list. And domestic
qualities are becoming fashionable. The smart
girl of the day finds that lovers look askance on
extravagant living. t
“The immense crowd which welcomed the
‘Circus Girl’ to Her Majesty’s (Saturday,
19th July), now label said stranger as
‘not the sort of girl they care about. Ken
ningham gets no singing, Hugh Ward no
dancing, and Florence Young no songs worth her
mettle. Blanche Wallace, as an English Some-
body in Paris, has a streak of luck in her
two costumes. The first—a grey walking
toilet —recalls a silver cloud with a rosy
lining. Sparkling bands, like interludes of rain-
drops, glisten on its surface of grey panne. It
would be a sartorial ‘ symphonie pathetique ’
only for blushing under-frills of coral color. A
surprise band of same cheerful hue intrudes
into the hat reverie—a Puritan poem, based
on plumes of dove-color and white. Blanche’s
othe- toilette draws its inspiration from pea
cocks rather than doves a princess robe of
dark-green velvet has an Empire front of glitter-
ing device like peacock-feather ‘eyes.’ Masses of
green-spangled gauze foam round wearer’s feet and
wrists, like a frenzy of jealousy, swirling to the
surface in spite of j the soft persuasions of the
fleecy cloak of cool primrose, vainly trying to
allay the emerald fury seething below.
“Elsie Moore, like a Watteau shepherdess in
pink, snapped most of the presentation flowers,
thanks to the loyalty of ex-colleagues of the
chorus, who, now havened in gilded married life,
bestow tributes on their old chum, just to show
some of the slie-principals that ‘the Public some-
times differs from the Management in its estimate
of a girl’s ‘ form. *
“A magnate’s wife gave the circle a scare.
In the distance she seemed to be wearing only
the coat of nature, but on a prolonged inspec-
tion through strong glasses, it was found that a
flesh-colored silk and lace gown was pasted in
smooth fashion over her buxom figure. Two ex-
mummers and their elderly hubbies, another
ex-mummer and her ‘fiasco,’ and a racing mag-
nate’s wife brought down the glasses of galleries
and circle on their respective heads.
“The steeplechase ‘Follow the Man from
Cook’s was the most exciting feature of the amateur
‘ Runaway Girl ’ show. The highly-proper Lady
Coodle scorned thehurdle-clearingand disappeared
for that high-jumping turn. The other girls showed
nimbler legs and a greater cascade of petticoat
laces than even the professionals did. The pretty
chorus girls were more rakish than any old stage
hands, and carried on lively communications with
the Johnnies in the audience.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
A graceful form and well moulded bust
are essential to perfect beauty. LacU, the
wonderful “Skin Food” is nature’s remedy for
giving back those essentials when lost through
sickness or action of time, and for supplying them
when constitutionally deficient. It fills all hollows,
develops and gives a charming roundness to neck
and arms. Price 7s. 6d. per jar, post Bs. 3d.
Westall truest, Toilet Specialist to the Gov.-
General, 229 Bourke-street, Melbourne.


Hotel Cecil
& Restaurant
Largest and most magnificent Hotel in Europe.
Overlooking the picturesque Embankment Gardens and river.
LONDON.
Moderate Charges
Bedrooms, light and attendance included, from 6s. per day. Breakfast, from 2s.
lunch, 3s. 6d.; dinner, 6s. Suites, ensuring absolute privacy, from 245. per day
Telegraphic Address: CECELIA, LONDON.
A. JUDAH, Manager.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Next to the Insurance fiend ranks the
Typewriter man for cast iron nerve and per-
severance. A man has only to breathe that he is
going in for a machine when the salesmen swarm
round him like flies over beef. Brown will tell
him that a machine printing with a shift for
capital letters is only used by persons with weak
intellects, and that if he buys a double keyboard
instrument his troubles are for ever at rest.
Smith, however, scoffs at the double keyboard
notion and prophesies disaster of the most awful
description to the unlucky possessor. Then up
comes Green with a pad machine and anathema-
tizes all machines printing from a ribbon. The
bewildered buyer, driven to distraction, curses each
and all. The safe and comfortable course is to deal
with a house offering a variety of each principle ;
and anxious to give the buyer the type of machine
best suited to his special wants. The United
Typewriter and Supplies Co. of Sydney,
Melbourne and Perth sells the Yost, New Century
and Densmore, shift key, double keyboard and
pad machine, and they give their advice free, and
also a free trial of each kind of machine.*
modern
American
TYPE
For Sale by all Printers’ Fur-
nishers at Reduced Prices.
Estimates and Information
given on application.
Saves Time, Money & Labor.
Large and Handsome Speci-
men Book furnished to printers
contemplating purchases of
Printing Materials manufac-
tured by
American Type Founders Co.
Address: T. Q. NICKLIN, Agent,
c/o Alex. Cowan & Sons, Ltd.,
SYDNEY or MELBOURNE.
H
WEAK-SICHTCD REAPERS
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing with comfort, whose distant vision is dull
and who suffer from persistent headaches or pains after close
application—you may rest assured that you are suffering from
Ageing 1 or Impaired Vision, and Need Glasses. You
should visit us, and have your sight scientifically tested, and
be supplied with Glasses adapted to your individual case.
ib COUNTRY READERS who cannot visit us personally, we send, Post Frce.to any address, with full instruc-
tions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT. By its use
you can Test your own sight and determine for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you may need.
Write for it to—
H. A. BARRAGLOUGH, Consulting Optician
371 George St., Sydney,
And at 232 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, opposite Age Office.
next door to the A. J.S. Bank.
King and George Streets.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Peacock makes the third knight now sitting
in Vic. Assembly. The others are doddering
“Jock” Mclntyre and the hopelessly conserva-
tive Gillott.
Died, at Melbourne, Miss Elphinstone
Dick, the eminent gymnastic teacher for ladies.
She once swam six miles, in a rough sea, off the
English coast.
N.S.W. ecclesiastical aprons attract some
of Queensland’s best men. Barlow, Stanton and
Stretch did duty “up above” but leaped when
N.S.W. called.
Looking at N.S.W. Treasurer Waddell
now no one would suppose that seven years ago he
fathered a Bill, all by himself, to abolish the
pensions of Judges of the Supreme and District
Courts.
Lord Hopetocm has not entirely left
Australia. Some of him still remains—in the
shape of several formidable corns from which he
was divorced by the eminent Sydney specialist
Barclay.
Acting-Premier Deakin is vastly proud of
his eloquence and takes much pains to polish it
up in Hansard proof. Said that to correct the
proofs of his speeches often costs more than the
original setting-up of the matter.
A certain prominent N.S.W. squatter,
whose chances of “ ennobblement ” looked more
or less rosy a few months ago, has so altered since
the Coronation-list was published that his friends
hardly recognise him at a first glance.
Woollahra (N.S.W.) Presbyterian Church
is “calling” Rev. Dr. Meharry, the actor-
preacher of London, at a salary of £lOOO. Dr.
M. s present stipend is £lOOO with quarters, but
he desires a change to Australia, of which he
became enamoured.
Twenty-six out ot the 95 present members
of Vic. Assembly have held office as Ministers, a
very fair proof of the mediocrity of Govts, in that
State. Also, Turner, Best, Isaacs, M‘Lean,
Salmon and M‘Coll (in Federal politics) were
former Vic. Ministers.
David Syme has no further use for Kip-
ling and Tommy Atkins now the war is over.
Atkins is off, and Kipling is abased as the
apotheosis of blatant swagger. David reviles him
a whole column long for exhibiting the “ volcanic
braggadocio of his own soul.”
Apropos George Reid’s systematic San-
dowing for his stomach’s sake : The craze for
physical culture has taken on among Sydney’s
fat men ; and dropping in at one of the “parlors”
where the system is taught, you’d think the
Legislative Council was in session.
Admiral Sir Henry Keppel (who, as a
larky post-captain, caused the 30 years’ estrange-
ment between Hori Grey and his wife) has just
returned to England from a journey to Singapore,
made as a director of the British North Borneo
Co., and is hale and hearty at the age of 94.
A SEMI-CONCEALED COMFORTER.
EVANGELIST: “The Bulletin, sir, is a paper
which should never he read.”
THE UNREGENERATE : “I quite agree with you,
sir. If it were not so red it could not he so
plainly seen sticking out of your coat-tail
pocket every Thursday .”
Gravitated to gaol, an old Stawell (Vic.)
identity—the octogenarian Mary Honan, who
made good money as a bullock-driver, carting
provisions to the diggings in the early days. The
Female Penitentiary at Coburg makes a poor
ending for one who has seen, and helped to make,
Australia’s “roaring days.”
“Joey” Bell, newly-elected chairman of
Committees in Q. Assembly, is eldest son of the
late Joshua Peter Bell, who owned Jimbour (the
show-station of the Darling Downs) in the “good
old” squatting days. “ Joey ” went to Cambridge,
years back, and came back with a degree, and a
numnah and an accent. Both he and his brother
William are barristers, and, when at Alma-mater,
rowed in the champion eights.
“ Rit ” : “ Van D.” speaks of a clergyman
he once knew in Tasmania as being the original of
Thackeray’s Revd. Chas. Honeyman in “ Pen-
dennis.” There is better authority for the state-
ment that it was the father of Kyrle Bellew
(teacher of elocution to King Edward 40 or 50
years ago) who sat for the portrait.
Mrs. Lance Rawson accuses Rev. Dill
Macky (high priest of N.S.W. Orangeism), in the
columns of John Norton’s paper, of believing, in
common with all Christians, in the Immaculate
Conception.” John, who is “a High Church
Anglican ” with a deep knowledge of Saints’
Days, ought to know better than that.
George Black, who hasn’t had any love for
A. G. Stephens since that little Burns squabble,
devotes a column or more to slating A.G.S’s.
“Oblation” in last week’s Worker. It con-
cludes :
The pamphlet is dedicated to the late Brunton
Stephens. He did not long survive the insult.
Lord Salisbury, when he was, in a sense, a
“ struggling ” journalist living in a poor quarter
of London, “ sat under ” Rev. James Moorhouse,
afterwards Bishop of Melbourne. When Salis-
bury formed his first Government one of his
eagerly-seized opportunities was to promote
Bishop Moorhouse from Melbourne to Man-
chester.
S.A. Leg. Council is annoyed because ex-
President Baker, for whose portrait it paid, posed
to the artist in a wig and a resplendent “get-up”
such as was never yet seen in the Chamber, where
presidents do not don horse-hair or knee-breeches.
Attorney-General Gordon has appealed to the
artist to paint out the wig but the result is not
yet known.
Queensland Speaker Arthur Morgan
(elected unopposed for the second time) is editor
and proprietor of Warwick Argus. Both
sides testified to Morgan’s fairmindedness and
lack of bias—which must have been gall and worm-
wood to ex-Speaker Cowley. Morgan’s little
brother “ Wally ” is probably the biggest man in
Q. —Oft. high and 28st. in weight.
There are rumors once more that ex-
Premier Peacock is “full up” of Vic. politics.
His mine-managing business cannot expand, and
his better half entreats. But then, the meteorio
Treasurer Shiels is also believed to have been
domestically implored for many years to quit
politics, and his well-advertised malady persuades
him most persistently, yet he grip ly hangs on.
Appointment of Rev. G. H. Frod-
sham, M.A. (of Durham University), as Bishop
of North Queensland, is another victory for the
High Churchites in England, who regard Queens-
land as a good field in which to plant young
adherents. Mr. Frodsham was, in 1896, sent to
Brisbane as incumbent of St. Thomas’, South
Toowong, and secretary to the Bishop. Amongst
the Low Church clergy, of whom there is but a
handful in Brisbane, he is known, because of his
undecided manner, as “Flotsam and Jetsam.”
Alex. Montgomery, the Maorilander, who
goes over to be Westralia’s first State Mining
Engineer, is a good sample of
the Southern Scot. He was
one of the sort that had to take
a degree if he did it on por-
ridge ; as it happened, he was
able to do it on scholarships,
and, no doubt, found that more
comfortable. He was B.A. at
19, and M.A. at 20 ; but as the
Arts course couldn’t keep the
greedy Otago youngster going,
he filled in with metallurgy
and engineering. Afterwards,
having done a little railway
work, he was drafted out with
Prof. Black to organise the
M.L. Schools of Mines. He
was Govt. Geologist of Tas-
mania when Zeehan and Mt.
Lyell were opened, but got
back to M.L. and mine-manage-
ment in ’96. On top of all his
scholastic and scientific attain-
ments Mr. Montgomery is a
good athlete and a mighty
walker ; and when he was in
office in Tasmania he didn’t
keep a frill on the premises.
Old Dr. Nicholson is en-
thusiastic over photos, of a
statue in the Nicholson Museum
in Sydney University. The
statue is that of the wife of
Tirhakah, an Egyptian ruler
whose name figures in the Old
Testament. The nonagenarian
baronet lives a great part of
his time in memories of his
museum.
“Melb.” : Prof. Mudd, F.R.G.S., lectur-
ing here, states that he accompanied King Edward
as botanist, on the Indian tour. He says that a
jeweller named Isaacs was in the suite, his busi-
ness being to value all the gifts. Isaacs had
charge of them, in all kinds of rubbishy recep-
tacles, as if they were things of no value. He
showed Mudd jewellery to the value of £20,000,
in an old kerosene-tin.
“How they apologise,” according to Dan
O’Connor, in N.S.W. Leg. Assembly:—
The O’Connor : Every man has that right (the right of
addressing the House) no matter, Mr. Chairman, whether
he is as courteous as yourself, or as rude and brutal as
the member for Monaro.
The surprised and outraged Miller : “??????”
The O’Connor : I apologise, Mr. Chairman. I apologise
for the honor of the House, and for the dignity of an
ignoramus. I fail to notice any insignificant interjection
from any little creatures who depend mostly on the
length of their hair, or the strength of their voices.
Which apparently quite mollified the ruffled
Miller.
A SUSPICIOUS CIRCUMSTANCE.
“ What made you think I was a married man? ”
“ Well, last night you seemed in such a hurry to
get home.”
Wagga’s retiring Police Magistrate, Mr.
George Martin, is a brother of the late burly
N.S.W. Chief Justice. Mr. Martin was ten years
younger than his eminent brother, and picked up
no little of what law he administered by following
his brother’s career. The ex-P.M. is a N.S.W.
native, and filled several Crown billets ere going
on to the Bench. He was early identified with
the Vernon training-ship for boys.
Among nil the professions of weepful
regret at his departure, the testimonial given to
Hopetoun by the Melbourne unemployed stands
out bold and unconstrained. They resolved :
“ That, no matter how many divergent views we
hold as Royalists, Republicans, or Socialists, we,
the unemployed, all unite in agreeing that the
late Governor-General is a Man ; and as we have
known him as such, we give him three hearty
cheers.”
A female ex-convict has just died in
Northern N.S.W., aged nearly ninety. She was
sent out labelled “ noted garotter ” and took great
pride in her early profession, explaining that a
love of garotting, once acquired, grew with indul-
gence. “I long for the feel of a good throat
betwixt my fingers and thumbs,” she used to
say in her cups. She could not read, but treas-
ured her deed of pardon, asking that it might be
placed on her breast when in her coffin.
Someone who has been analysing Debrett
finds that Oliver Cromwell stands as ancestor to
more British peers than Charles IT ! This is not
due, however, to any miscellaneous affection on
Oliver’s part; there must have been something in
the blood to help on so many of his breeding to
earn titles for public service rendered. Anyway,
there are two marquises, eight earls (Ivo Bligh
among them), and five barons, all claiming descent
from the Protector, and all through his fourth
daughter.
Captain Miles, of Strahan Marine Board
celebrity, the kinked link that condemned
Braddon’s chain of Tas. Ministerial office, is back
in his old haunts, and bids fair to again loom
large in V.D.L. affairs. Strahan Chamber of
Commerce unanimously elected him a member,
t’other night, and the odds are not too long about
him once more securing the seat on the Marine
Board, from which he fell with such velocity a
couple of years ago. Any pushful man is sure of
a fine large toleration in the Isle of Dreams.
From an Australian in the Transvaal about
Steyn (who, through the charity of the women of
Capetown, is now going to Europe for medical
treatment): —
Poor Steyn is a wreck. He is almost blind, and is sup-
posed to be suffering from sunstroke. lam afraid this is
only a charitable interpretation of something which the
strain of the last few years has brought about. When I
saw him nearly three years ago he was in the full flush of
his manhood, passionately addressing an assemblage of
burghers. I saw him a few days ago being led about by
an assistant and apparently helpless.
So Kipling has refused a knighthood, or
something of that kind. Was it in anticipation
of some such offer that he wrote his “Last
Rhyme of True Thomas ? ” It will be remembered
that the King wanted to make a knight of True
Thomas “ all for the sake of the songs he made.”
and Thomas indignantly answered :
I ha’ harpit ye up to the throne o’ God,
I ha’ harpit your midmost soul in three ;
I ha’ harpit ye down to the hinges o’ Hell,
And ye would make a knight o’ me 1 ”
The only Victorian Premiers who ever
showed any recognition of literary merit were
John O’Shanassy and C. Gavan Duffy. Big John
made James Smith Parliamentary librarian, and
Finn (“ Garryowen ”) clerk of the Parliamentary
papers. Duffy appointed Marcus Clarke sub-
librarian at Melb. Public Library. Succeeding
Vic. Premiers were not able to see any points
about scribblers. Smith was sent adrift by the
M‘Culloch Govt., and his place was eventually
taken by the late Jas. Farrell, ex-publican and
M.L. A.
London papers are full just now of stories
to show what a good fellow Lord Hopetoun is.
A sample :
His friends well remember a delightful incident which
occurred at Government House late one night after a
rather unusually dull and formal State entertainment.
The official guests had departed, and the Governor, still '
arrayed in full uniform, relieved his feelings and delighted
his house party by walking round the big ball-room on
his hands with his feet in the air!
The meanness of Australia in refusing to double
the salary of a Governor-General who could walk
on his hands !
Australia lost its best woman-preacher the
other day—in S. Aus., of course, where every
third man is either a local preacher or a J.P., and
often both. She was Mrs. Lake, wife of the Bible
Christians’ minister, and grand-daughter of the
founder of that offshoot of the Methodists. The
other Methodist bodies didn’t take kindly to
women-preachers (Wesley’s own experiences of
women were not too pleasant) ; but the Bible
Christians put all it could into the pulpit. This
one had “travelled” Queensland, N.S.W., and
S. Australia.
Howard Spensley (whose eldest daughter
has become engaged in England to her cousin,
Capt. S. T. Staughton, M.L.A., Vic.), was a
Melb. pressman— Herald —in the sixties. He
was afterwards admitted to the Bar, and was
Solicitor-General in the Duffy Govt. When
returned to Vic. Leg. Assembly for Warrnambool,
he beat his opponent, Richmond Henty, by five
votes. By a singular coincidence, after he had
taken up residence in England, his election to
the Commons for a London electorate was
secured by a majority of five votes.
Mary Gilmore writes from Fremantle,
W.A. (on board the G.M.S. Karlsruhe) about
Henry Lawson, who has just returned to Sydney:
Henry Lawson is with us. We went down from Liver-
pool and stayed 10 days with him and his wife in London.
He was looking fagged and ill, and sent Mrs. Lawson and
the children out with us. He stayed behind to go over
the proofs of his last book—said to be his best. While in
London, I saw the manager for Blackwood’s. He told me
it would be madness for Lawson to leave London for a
year or so. “He has the ball at his feet, and there’s
nothing to stop him,” he said. A big pubiishing-agent
told me the same thing. However, as far as I can see,
judging by the opinions 1 heard and the quality of the
reviews, it doesn’t matter where he does his work, whether
in the Sahara of London or any other Sahara. It will go
on his name, let alone on its merits. He came on by the
Gera, and, owing to our having gone to Bombay for re-
pairs, landed at Colombo, and caught us as we re-passed.
“I had about twenty minutes’conversa-
tion with De Wet,” writes a Victorian living at
Vereeniging, the scene of the Peace Conference.
“As I looked into his face, I tried to read what
there was in him to make him such a successful
man. Except for the fact that he is far and away
above the average in intelligence there is nothing
to distinguish him from the ordinary habitue of
Flemington sale-yards. He was a very successful
farmer, and the man who can be that can easily be
a successful soldier. . . . When DeWet was
leaving I endeavored to express the pleasure I felt
in meeting him, and (as I felt, clumsily) tried to
pay him the compliment which everybody will
admit is his due. He laid his hand on my shoulder
and said: ‘ I may never see you any more. I sup-
pose you’ll hear a lot said against me—you will
hear a lot said in my favor—l care nothing for
either ; but I am satisfied in the knowledge that
I have done to the end what I considered right in
the interests of my people who put their trust in
me. That end has now come—so good-bye, and
God bless us all! ’


• THE VERY BEST . .
fflaconochie’s
DELICI3US PRESERVES
Fresh Herrings. Kippered Herrings.
Herrings in Tomato Sauce. Pickdes.
Worcester Sauce. Potted Meats. Marmalade.
SWIFT <sc COMPANY,
7 Spring: Street, Sydney.
• • • Australian Agents.
DAVID STOKER & SONS* ,n Threo C3lorB - BLAC *. bed and blue
Registered
Trade
Mark.
110 OOILVI
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking or
The Perfect SHEEP BRANDING OIL
Ke Pt by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
Hotel
Australia
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
“ THE AUSTRALIA ” is loftily situated ; from
its dome, the Pacific Ocean can be seen, and the
whole of Sydney.
To its favorable and airy position, “THE
AUSTRALIA " adds every comfort and appoint-
ment. It is fireproof from tower to basement;
and an efficient staff patrols the building daj’ and
night. It possesses the most elegant of drawing-
rooms, handsomely appointed dining-rooms, cosy
bar lounges and winter gardens. The system
and attendance of the hotel are unsurpassable.
J. URE SMITH (Late of Menzies’), Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.— In the case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations ivill have scientific value.
“ 6x8”: Be drovers’dogs. I must em-
phatically contradict “ Cyniphilos ” (B. 5/7/’02) I
have had much droving experience with both sheep
and cattle and with all varieties of drover and I
have found them nearly always kind to their does
Boss-drovers, in fact, treat good dogs with much
more consideration than their wage-shepherds I
once went with “Old Riley ” from Carinda on
Merri-Merri Creek, N.8.W.. to Gunnedah, via
Combolong and Come-by-Chance, behind a 9000
mob of Warren Downs sheep. Riley’s favorite
dog knocked-up after a few days out, and the old
drover carried the animal on his saddle for over a
week, and at midday shared his lunch with him.
l Why not leave him with the cook’s
cart? Wouldnt trust the cook,” was the
answer; he wouldn’t look after him well
enough. ’ This is one of many instances of the
kind which have come under my personal notice.
Ihe only dogs I’ve known drovers to be unkind to
were wastrels, “sooner-dogs,” not worth tucker,
and such animals are annoying on the road.
• * • *
“F.M.” : The way all trees grow, from
the crown upwards or outwards, was settled
long ago. Anybody may test this by stapling a
wire to a line of growing saplings and seeing if it
lifts as they grow. And yet there are exceptions
and puzzles. One of the strangest is a red-gum
slab which marks a grave at Yerong, Yarra Flats
Vic. It is gripped and held by the bark of a
willow, and stands about 4ft. from ground. It
has been in the same position for more than 30
years. The history of the tree and slab is queer,
and runs back nearly 70 years, to the time when
the first Victorians settled about the Upper
Yarra. It was Macpherson, of Heidelberg, I
think, who planted a willow-twig from St.
Helena, and a few years later his stockman yarned
with a girl at Yerong and carried a switch cut
from the Heidelberg willow. They stuck the
switch in the ground to commemorate something
or other, and it grew. The stockman married the
girl, and 20 years later, died and was buried under
the tree he had planted. What followed is what
appears to-day. There is no evidence of human
agency in the matter. The big folds of the willow
bark are right over the edges of the slab, which
the tree has carried up, and the lettering on the
part visible is as plain as the day it was cut.
* * « *
“ Albo ” ; Be “Hippo’s” notion that
trees do not carry marks upwards with their
growth. Let “H.” find a sapling with a fork
say 5ft. up, formed by two limbs of about equal
size, and let him bore a hole through each limb
just above the junction. Then, when, in course
of time, this sapling has grown so that the fork is
10ft. from the ground, would “H.” searcli the
trunk 5ft. from the ground for these holes or
would he try higher up ? Not till “ H.” manages
to convince me that trees grow higher without
growing upwards shall I believe that marks
thereon remain stationary.
* * • •
A i'>rize item at a Coronation bun-struggle
pro session at Rochester (Vic.) recently was a
tableau, entitled “The Starved-out Mallee Far-
mer.” Upon a crazy old dray, drawn by a
wretched neddy scarcely able to crawl, appeared
the aforesaid farmer and his wife, both gnawing
at a shin-bone, while the “ woman ” crooned a
lullaby to her stuffed baby. It was a grim com-
ment on the prevailing sad state of rural affairs,
yet a crowd of cockies laughed uproariously at
the presentment of a condition not far removed
from their own. Strange animal, the Vic. cockie !
* * * *
“ Vul.” : Be recent Bulletin items about
what cows will eat. From “ The Life of Millais,”
the artist:—
Mr. Gould, the naturalist, when out fishing one day
landed a fine salmon, which he concealed behind a small
bush in a meadow. When he came back to look for his
fish it was nowhere to be found, and after a lono- and
unsuccessful search he began to think the keepers had
purloined it. They, however, laid the blame on the cows
suggesting that they had eaten it. The idea was scoffed
at by every sportsman in the house, and to prove its
absurdity, a fresh salmon was brought from the larder
and put into the same field, when, to the astonishment of
the scoffers, the cows promptly marched up and devoured
it. Also, not generally known that fish of any kind is
readily eaten by all ruminants.
SETTLING DAY—THE DIVISION OF
PROFITS.
“In order to evade the transhipment clauses in Kanaka
legislation some of the employers have had their Kanakas
declared partners.”— DAILY PAPER.
“ Pookey ” to “ Wal ” (B. 12/10/’01) : An
Australian blackfellow will kill a dog—but not his
own dog.
“Rizpah ’’ : Re par. (B. 21/6/’O2) :
The Oentralian drought is a recurrent phenomenon,
much as are our great coastal floods. In '63 flood-time I
arrived in Bowen just as news came of the Burdekin
flood, 17 miles wide at Clare, and the obliteration of the
Burdekin landing—a cargo-receiving and discharging
outlet for N.Q.
That flood has not repeated itself, but it will do so, on
a much larger scale, for the river has silted up greatly,
owing to the heavy stocking of itself and its watershed,
and the lessening of the channel’s depth has caused the
wearing away of the banks. When the Suttor and its
watershed, the Clark and its watershed, and the heads of
the Burdekin become flooded simultaneously—good-bye
to Charters Towers iron railway-bridge, Clare township,
and all sugar-planting Ayr !
When the drought ends the floods begin, and they will
wind up with a fresh-water sea from the Serpentine to
Euri Creek—loo miles—and everything on that strip of
country will go. Also, take the cases of the Herbert
River and Ingham sugar township (low lying); the
Fitzroy and its watershed and Rockhampton (very low
lying) ; the Mary and its watershed and Gympie, Mary-
borough ; the Brisbane River, &c. This last has already
shown what it can do, and the repeat will about settle the
low-lying portions of Brisbane. Over 40 years ago I
heard the Brisbane blacks speak of great prior floods, and
it is evident, upon examination, that the business,
governmental, and botanical part of the city is but a low
second bank, the true one being Wickham Terrace.
t Curious how long-continued immunity begets that
“ tired feeling” that will not move from danger’s circle.
In the case of the sugar towns, it is not hard to foresee
that Nature’s action in the near future will effectually
solve the colored-labor question. Rockhampton, Mary-
borough, and Brisbane are excellent places of abode for
intending martyrs; and, if we can’t be taught in any
other way, a criminal waste of life and goods must be our
instructor.
* * * »
Aborigines-mission reports read worse and
worse; in one sense perhaps better, for black is
melting into white. Long ago Rev. Hamdt, a
German missionary in Brisbane gaol, was chal-
lenged to convert a blackfellow. A grant of land
was the Govt, prize for every black turned
to Christian ways. Hamdt was an honest man as
well as being a clergyman, and though he wrought
for years he never applied for a single grant.
• * 9 *
N.S.W. Pasture and Stock Protection
Board has, during last half-year, paid for the
scalps of 132,760 wallabies, as against 52,847 for
the corresponding half of 1901. Increase ascribed
to the fact that the marsupials are too weak to
escajie the slayers.
AT JAM-TIN SESSIONS.
NEW J.P. (mistaking defendant for plaintiff): “ An’ are you the party that teas sthruck by
Rorke? ”
DEFENDANT (nervously): "No, yer Warship. I—Pm the parly that didn’t stroike the other
party. I had to do it in self-defince, yer Warship!” (Case dismissed).
The Govt, bonus of 2s. 6d., supplemented
by from Is. to 3s. on the part of shire councils,
was paid on 31,000 foxes caught in Victoria in
1901. The introducer of reynard to Australia
deserves a monument. It sliould consist of a
gallows, with his effigy hanging thereon alongside
those of the fellows who brought to this country
rabbits and Scotch thistles.
• • • •
“P.C.C.”: After the trees on soil of
Silurian formation have been ringbarked “ water-
gushes ” make their appearance on
the weather side of the hills, and
gullies often wash out into small
creeks, thus showing that there is
more water about the ground than
there previously was. This, because—
though the same amount may have
fallen before ringbarking—the roots
of the trees sucked much of it away.
The supposition that trees draw rain
is a confusion between cause andeffeet.
Trees indicate rain because trees are
the result—not the cause thereof.
Droughts prove nothing. [But what
has this cocksure correspondent to
say to the abundantly-demonstrated
fact that forest-denudation is invari-
ably followed by diminution of rain-
fall ? If the rain is merely the cause
of the trees, it should not be affected
by elimination of its own effect .]
“ J.M.T.” : Re “ L.L.’s ” discovery near
Taroowo (Q.), (8., 28/6/’O2) of a heifer which had
been killed and only the sirloin carried away.
.This is a common practice in N.S.W., especially
in the settled districts, where to take a quantity
would be to risk detection. A prize Jersey heifer
was thus treated the other day within three miles
of Young. Outback the whole beast is generally
carried off.
•«. * *
“6x8": Re the “ Bagged Thirteen ”
I was merely repeating hearsay when I wrote that Ben
Bridge was “ said” to have been a member of the gang:
One hears various stories up North about the Thirteen,
and if your correspondent (12/7/’O2) knows the facts whv
doesn t he enlighten us as to who the Thirteen were,
what they were combined for, where they lived, and what
has beco.ne of them—if there ever were any Ragged
Thirteen ? J
“H.P.”: Talk about mul-
tiplicity of employments ! I
know a man, only 32 years old,
who has in his time been at all
the following jobs : Picking up
wool (for shearers), wool-rolling,
wool-sorting, wool-pressing, trap-
ping and hunting, rabbit poison-
ing, circusdiand, grocer’s as-
sistant, commercial travelling,
firewood-cutting, charcoal-burn-
ing, grooming, sheep-droving,
shepherding, horse-driving on
station, cattle-droving, mail-
coach-driving, harrowing, fish-
ing, harvesting, grubbing trees,
navvying, stone-breaking, quar-
rying, gardening, seed-sowing
(wheat and oats), potato digging,
postmaster, boarding-house and
storekeeping (combined), news-
agent, tank-sinking, painting,
paperhanging, splitting (posts,
rails, etc.), clearing land, wattle-
bark stripping, ring-barking
timber, bark-mill band (grinding
wattle-bark), fencing, wharf-
laboring, coal-discharging (from
railway-trucks), and gold-mining
—42 occupations in 18 years, and
probably the list would have
been even longer had he not
struck gold-mining. Nobody
ever seems to give that up.
Prof. Gregory, of Mel-
bourne, pours cold water on the half-century-old
project of fi ling the Lake Eyre basin from the sea
at Port Augusta with the object of moistening the
climate of central Australia. He holds that the
cost of a sufficiently-capacious canal would be
about 700 millions sterling, and that the results
might be altogether disappointing when the in-
land sea had been created. S.A. will not borrow
that 700 millions yet awhile.
» » * »
The Owe’Sullivan lias given notice of a
proposal to build a railway from Cobar to
Wilcannia (N.S.W.). After leaving Cobar it will
pass through three counties—Werunda (with 87
people,) Rankin (population, 150,) and Booroon-
dara, (population, 165.) There are 90 inhabited
huts in these three counties, two of which will
probably be visible from the railway, and thus
help to brighten the landscape. Finally the
line will touch the county of Young with
1290 people. If it gets the trade of two-
thirds of these people (some of them will
be 60 miles away from the line) there will be 1128
people to support 120 miles of railway—that is the
mileage after Robinson county, in which Cobar
is situated, is left behind. If the line is built and
equipped for £4OOO per mile it will cost £420 per
inhabitant served by it, including the baby, or
over £lOOO for every adult male. There isn’t a
town or the semblance of one in all Booroondara.
Werunda and Rankin counties, and when last
heard of there were only 140,000 sheep and 1700
cattle in all three counties. Picture the possi-
bilities in the way of naming the stations along a
route like that: Bare Plain, Brown Wilderness
Dead Finish, Dry Tank, Sandstorm, Lost Ox’,
Godforgotten (change here for Godforsaken) and
Mount Hopeless are a few that suggest them-
selves.
• * * *
Writer passed through a N.Q. township
some three months ago, and could discover no
visible means of support in the place beyond some
200 goats. Now the goats have all gone—starved
out, and the surviving population L> subsisting on
what it euphemistically calls “salt mutton.”
Lot a sheep or bullock for 50 miles around.
• » • *
“0.K.” : Re sorghum-poisoning (“Hag-
gram,” B. 7/8/’O2), “F.M.” (B. 21/6/’O2) says
after eating greedily,” etc. Now, a little unripe
sorghum or planter’s friend will kill a beast, and
immediate dissection shows the paunch to be
slightly distended with foetid gas. Horses and
bulls, though not immune, are not so susceptible
as cows. Glover, when eaten by cattle, generates
a great quantity of inoffensive gas, which distends
the paunch so much that the heart’s action is
interfered with and the beast dies; and I have
frequently found the paunch burst and the
abdominal cavity filled with the gas. Have often
saved a beast by sticking a knife between the ribs
into the paunch, thus releasing the gas. Running
the animal has the same effect, if done in time, but
not so with sorghum-poisoned animals.
A DELICATE QUESTION.
Old Friend: “’Elio, Bill, ole man—-ow are yer gettin’ on ?”
The Other (angrily): Struth! carn’t yer seel”
“Nymsie”: For six weeks before the
close season started two “ anglers ” were making
£l5 a week between them, with night-lines and
“snares,” in certain billabongs nearCobram, Vic.
Cod up to 401 b., and perch (golden) to 51b —the
latter snared. Native fish will soon be exter-
minated if something is nr it o ’.one to pre-
serve the species outsid c.r ir.uacums. The
fishers dodge the Fisheries and f nne Acts at
every point—catch the little fish as bait for the
larger ; net, trap, shoot, dynamite, a' ’ jag ! and
demolish their own means of livelihood the same
time. Directly the billabongs that connect the
lagoons with the Murray, Ovens, King, andGoul-
burn Rivers begin to trickle with the freshets,
nets are put aero is the watercourse, and the golden
and black perch and bream, migrating to spawn
on the creek and river sandbanks, are sacrificed.
* » * *
“Algol”: This mornhig read “Stlgy”
re catching young crows (B. 12/C/’O2), abo “A
few points for Arch. Kelly ” by “T.Y.K.” Later
in the day I cams across the c"ow-eatching in
Kipling’s “The Strange Ride jf Morrowbie
Jukes,” and afterwards, reading “Talks on Peda-
gogics,” by Francis W. Parker, I came on
“ T.Y.K’s.” points, nearly word for word. How’s
that for coincidence? By the wav, no pedagogue
in Australia would dare to write as Parker does
on Democracy and Education. Let me recommend
the book to the Public School Teachers’ Associ i
tion.
* * * *
“ Tinkan ” : To snare crows—“ Young S.'
(B. 28/6/’O2). “Wii. ” a crow, and peg him down
on his back. In this position he will hang on to
anything that comes his way, and when his friends
arrive to see what lie’s making such a noise about,
he’s sure to get hold of one of them and be “stick-
ing closer than a brother.” Take No. 2 half-a-
mile away, peg down, and get back to No. 1 lively
to relieve him of liis second capture. Then, by
the time you get back to No. 2, he will have
caught his No. 2—and so on till your “peggees”
have caught about six each. After that they lose
their grip, and you’ve got to peg down a fresh
pair.
* * « *
“ Oktis" : “Scotty W.’s ’’ fox (B. 5/7/’O2)
became the property of “ Silly Billy.” Blackstone
lays it down that animals ferce natures become the
property of the first person who secures them—
per industriam. This qualified ownership only
remains while the animals are captive, and unable
to escape, or, becoming domesticated, have the
habit of returning (animum revertendi) to their
possession. Thus the fox in question, being able
to escape, became the property of the first one who
re-captured it (unless the former owner instantly
pursued it on its escape). The fact that it was
making off with “Scotty’s” trap does not alter
the case.
Also, as regards the disappearance of rabbits
after some have been poisoned with phosphorus.
The rabbits do not migrate and return. Hearing
the squeals of their poisoned companions, they lie
in hiding in the burrows, and do not venture out
for days. Have proved this by placing traps over
the burrows. Same thing happens on the advent
of their natural enemy, the fox.
* * * *
Thus a Casino) N.S. W.) paper :
Over a week ago a Shellharbour paddock fired beneath
the surface, and has been burning ever since. It appears
that while a stump was being burnt the ground caught
fire below, and occasionally shows on the surface. Every
effort to extinguish the fire has been baffled. In several
places the earth has been burned for several feet down,
and as the bulk of these places are covered by only a thin
crust, a series of dangerous pit-falls awaits anyone un-
warily entering the paddock.


CLEARS
the BLOOD
through the
KIDNEYS
WOLfrs
"SCHfIAPPS.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N. S. Wales : Sayers,
Allport and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
Presentation
. . . Keys
PRESENTATION TROWELS, from £1 Is.
For Ceremonial Openings of New Buildings, in Solid Gold. In case, 635. and upwards.
Solid Silver Spirit Levels for Ceremonial Laying of Foundation Stones 255. and upwards.
Australian Wooden Mallets, with'Silver Mounts, for Laying Foundation Stones. 18s. and upwards.
Electro-Silver and Solid Silver Trowels, from 21s. to £lO 10s.
Gold or Silver Cradles, and every Presentation Requisite, we make at London Prices.
ID*“ We supply Special Designs with pleasure.
LONDON PRICES
PLAIN FIGURES
STRICTLY CASH
FAIRFAX ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 HUNTER STREET.
“ Shaker ” ; Wonder if the ration supplied
by Queensland Government to the “King of
Nogoa ” is the daily 2oz. of flour we have heard so
much about lately. If so, L.jt photo (B. 32/5/’O2)
is about what he might be expected to look like.
* * * *
“ K.” : N.S.W. Railway Commissioners
profit by the drought at the expense of the
already-distressed men on the land. Some of the
railway gates in the vicinity of Young are con-
tinually left open, encouraging stock in the
neighborhood to stray on to the line in search of a
blade of grass. Trespassers are impounded and
Is. per head damage is charged, besides driving
and other fees.
* * * *
“ Cassa B.” : lie the case of the Western
district (Vie.) farmers: Mountain ducks, being
unable to scratch, take only the grain lying on the
surface, But the brolga scratches for his grain,
and works sad havoc in newly-sown fields. The
drills now so much used by Vic. farmers are a
blessing to him, as he simply follows up the drill-
marks and finds the wheat lying handy, in lines.
Malleeites coming West will find the brolga not
the least of the new evils facing them, hut they
can, at least, have the satisfaction of killing and
eating the marauder. Many worse dishes than a
young ‘‘ native-companion.”
A* * * *
According to a M.L. paper, “a trapping
competition for a wager of £5 between two
trappers on Earnscleugh Run (Southland), was
won with a tally of 426 rabbits for one night’s
catch. The loser’s tally was 344 rabbits. The
winner beats his previous record of 360 rabbits for
one night.” Earnscleugh is one of the stations
around Lake Wakatipu abandoned entirely to the
rabbits a few years hack. It is yielding more
money as a rabbit-farm for the frozen-rabbit
export trade than it ever did as a sheep station
since bunny came.
* * * •
“ Merool ” : When the Paroo country
was first stocked with sheep, some 20 years ago,
the dingoes, then very numerous, were slow to
discover the choiceness of mutton and did not
interfere with the jumbucks for several months.
“Mick W.” : To “Xerxes ” (B. *l2/7/’O2).
I have often seen the late John Gobi) (long
manager of Bando in Gunnedah district) pick
up the most venomous snakes and crack their
heads off instantly. On the top of Ben Lomond
once, he caught hold of a very big black snake
which nearly beat him. First time of cracking a
large frog flew out of the snake’s mouth, but at
third try the head flew clear. Stewart Wightman,
a well-known Red Creek resident, is also good at
this game—at which I am willing to back him if
“Xerxes” or any other sceptic will put up a fair
stake.
» * * •
“ Bori ’* : We were searching for the
missing man Liinond of Moss Vale, and while
scrambling along a narrow ledge of cliff (1000 feet
high) in the Barrengarry Mountain, one of the
party broke off from an overhanging and appar-
ently solid rock, an ironstone stalactite (of which
there are plenty thereabouts). Immediately a
stream of water fully 6in. in diameter burst out.
Any other occurrence of the kind on record since
the time of the late Mr. Moses-in-the-Wilderness ?
A THOROUGH LINGUIST.
LANIOAN : “Hole’s per son Dan gettin ’ on at
college? ”
MURPHY: “Shplendid, shplendid. Of had a
letlher from him yesterday saying he was just
shtartin’ to learn ping-pong .”
LANIGAN : “ Dear, dear, what a great scholar
he’ll be wid all those furrin lanjuidyes. "
In Sou Queensland the timber is dying
out, in many districts in patches of 20 to 30 acres.
Tiie ironbark on the ridges is perhaps the greatest
sufferer in the vegetable kingdom. Strange to
say, this destruction of timber is not observable
in Central Queensland, where the drought is
raging most fiercely.
• • • *
“Stan. P.” : lie “T. H.M.s” query as
to the correct method of destroying a horse (8.,
22/2/’02): If the pistol-muzzle is placed about
2in. behind the poll, and the shot fired towards
the centre of the forehead, the horse will be in-
stantly killed. Have seen many thus destroyed,
and in no case was a second shot required.
* * * *
Young Australia isn’t always leaning up
against a post waiting for a loan. An infant of 6
—no less—who had thoughtfully burnt-off some
tree-limbs that had fallen across the road, lately
sent in to Whittlesea (Vic.) Shire Council a
claim for payment, which was duly admitted.
That youngster should die a millionaire !
• • # *
J. S. Horsfall, a brainy though unassertive
squatter, stores a little fodder down in Eastern
Liverina. It was not necessary to buy much in
Moinalong, he writes, as there were 250 tons of
hay left from last year’s crop. If he had ever
attempted squatting beyond the 20-inch average
rainfall, there would certainly have been another
nought on to that sum.' S. M’Caughey, r>f Coo-
nong, too, is never without a good few hundred
tons of hay.
TO HER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TUST a line to greet you
In a distant place ;
Just a word to bring you
Thoughts of someone’s face :
Someone who stood watching
One bleak afternoon,
When the vessel bore you
Out of sight so soon.
Just a word to tell you
Someone’s days are gray,
Someone’s nights are lonely
Since you went away ;
Someone sadly wailing,
Someone winter-cold,
Hopes your nights are starlit,
Days all blue and gold.
Someone, wildly longing,
Hopeful waits for you,
For with your home-coming
Gray skies turn to blue.
Someone’s drawn a picture
From its hiding place,
Someone’s fondly kissed it
With a wistful face.
Someone writes these few lines
Just his thoughts to tell,
Knowing you loill read them
Understanding well.
*1 LB.
R. K. DEE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned an
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Agnostic : The Bulletin does not fear the
churches, but is much amused at the whole sectarian
row. All clerical ascendancy it regards as poisonous.
Orangeism is an excellent antidote to R.O. political domi-
nation, and R.0.-ism helps to keep the opposition crowd
in its proper place leonoclastes : Take a terser pen-
name, and don’t be so beastly long-winded.. Also, so
remorseless and bumptious a critic as yourself should be
able to spell better than “amerous” and “humerous.”
M.\V. B. : Not a new idea. An energetic Sydney lady has
long been urging N.S.YV. Education Dept, to giye girl
pupils of State schools instruction in the use of the
sewing-machine so that they may the more easily be able
to get a living when they go' to work Genung :
Nothing new. “ Hades,” translated “ hell, ’’ is also used
in the New Testament to mean the grave. It never liter-
ally meant hell in the Christian sense Awakimo : Both
well-written, bat the prose-sketch hasn’t enough in it
Logos; No: “post meridiem” is correct, “meridiem”
being the accusative of “ meridies”—of which “meridian”
is the English equivalent A.M. : You’re wrong; the
position of a Prince Consort is net that of an ordinary
husband, and his name is not necessarily given, to his
wife’s children. Present Prince-Consort of Holland holds
his position for only five years ; if the Queen has not
had progeny by then the marriage is dissolvable
Sheep-Dip : Only a new application for a very old gag.. ..
Marie B. : No particular “line of reading” will supply
lucidity and consfecutiveness—qualities which are in-
herent and semi-mathematical. For simplicity of style,
however, you might try Addison, Goldsmith, De Quincey,
and Macaulay—all excellent, yet not too much alike....
MacDhai : Probably because Rhodes didn’t consider the
matter worth a thought, he didn’t forbid religious rites
over his interment. Your “preliminary remarks” con-
tain some fine large assumptions Radpus : No hope on
sample submitted.... Bluey : You also, on same subject,
are pretty free with indemonstrable hypotheses. And,
anyhow, what is “ partial immortality ? ” T.D. : Every
lie has to be considered on its merits—or demerits. Theo-
logians who attempt to lay down a rule of absolute truth
on all occasions have to confess to the necessity of
exceptions when confronted with specific cases.. .H.M.C.:
There’s no literary merit in simply writing “ He 11.”....
Reader: (1) You write, for the fourth time, complaining
of something which, you are perfectly well aware, this
paper never said. It stated, in effect, that if the cable
meant exactly what it said, the mortality was at a certain
rate—it didn’t say positively that it uas at that rate.
Your assertion that it said so is merely a silly invention.
(2) The cutting you send along shows that some paper
(name, place and date unknown, as the heading is cut
off) interpreted certain figures in a certain way. (3) As to
the amende honorable you speak of, you can make it
as soon as you please, or you can leave it alone
An Australian : Australia will be cut from the British
apple-tree simply by force of gravitation : she will drop
away when the connecting stem rots—which it will slowly
but surely do. When you ascribe Tub Bulletin’s political
attitude to The Bulletin’s alleged religious opinions you
talk amusing bosh J.K.S.: Graceful, but idea too thin....
Yj : Didactic verse fails in its treatment; the worst pre-
paration for a poem is the thought “Now, I’m going to
preach a sermon.”... .J.W.G. : Would like to print your
paean of praise, if only for its statement that “ Tiie Bul-
letin is worth its weight in gin,” but modesty forbids....
W.M.S. (S’Africa) : The inaccuracy was on the part of the
Australian cable service, and it doesn’t affect in the
least this paper’s verses on the subject Cameo :
Reason of many deaths under chloroform —we are
assured by an eminent surgeon—is that the man in charge
of the anaesthetic often wants to take an interest in the
operation, and neglects his own work to watch the sur-
geon’s knife. This is particularly the case with young
doctors when put in charge of the chloroform Owl-
light: You misunderstand the position entirely. N.S.VV.
Arbitration Act makes it very difficult for a worker out-
side a trades-union to get employment; it practically
renders it compulsory for workers to join trades-unions.
Therefore, the rules of trades-unions must be wide
enough to admit all decent, honest toilers irrespective of
their political predilections for Protection, Freetrade,
Single-tax, Labor, Socialism or crusted Toryism
R. J.C. : Try and write more naturally ; tell your story as
you would tell it in a quiet chat, and you may succeed...
Quandong: “Briggs’ marriage” is told in such a pro-
foundly tired way that we suspect you are Briggs
B.K.Q. : Hardly in our line Silvermine : Neither suit-
able for illustration... .Rawdon : The occurrence was in
Sydney, not far from Bulletin office Nincompoop :
That|billy is off the b0i1.... Oktis : Correct!—“ western ”
was a verbal slip Barry S. : Both to hand. “Battler”
rather thin and forced. Other is better Alone: Yarn
rather crude and unconvincing Hubert: Lacks literary
quality. Sorry you didn’t receive whole of other Wild
W. : Not life-like enough for an adventure-yarn....
K.M.B. : Not too bad for a novice. There is promise of
humor in you Casa B. : Boiling-billy question has
gone cold. You should always give date of issue referred
to Albo : Proposed pen-name too cumbrous Irae :
Hardly worth print... .Albot H. : “Curlew” flat and
feeble Maggie K. : Not badly written, but interest
rather slender.... Clement Y. : Too long and prosy
Benelong: Will be considered Croyle: Absolutely
nothing in it A Mac.: Hardly good enough....
Tramp : Don’t know exactly what you are driving at, but
your intentions seem to be friendly. Townsville :
France, in 1901, had a population of 38,595,500 Mag-
nus : The last line of your poem concerning the johnnies
who drink and wink at a certain Melbourne bar reads
very like a personal apology. “You really must excuse
them—they are young.” Surely you are very young,
likewise. Your verse doesn’t look a day more than 17
A. Contingenter: We quite recognise you under your
various aliases Vulcan: Not necessarily any con-
nection between those hospital items.. ..Combo : We
don’t necessarily take notice of any anonymous com-
munication. .. .Caulfield : How were we to know? There
are billions of things published in newspapers or other-
wise circulated that we never hear of, or having heard,
at once forget H.M.D. : Subject now closed Hock
(something or other): Nobody takes Mr. Seddon quite
seriously just now W.B. : Will print shortly
Alter Ego: A merely mechanical idea... .Benelong:
Yarns too thin... .Pyrmont: Read your very detailed
catalogue of Liza’s charms until we got to the shoulders,
and then had to stop to blush.... Raupo : Raw poem....
T.E. (Brisbane): Material for a bright par., and you
extend it to a column... .Licec : Thought too thin
Perdu : Metres faulty Helen : Workmanship of “ Dere-
lict ” poor ; there is, however, good material for a yarn.
.... Jimmi Lannikin : Very promising-.. ..Violet: Might
do as a song (which may be successful as sound without
sense), but not suited for newspaper publication....
Oriat: Morant verse belated Rita S. : “ Our Angel,” on
too familiar lines; postcard verse for print... .Stilus :
Shows promise, but good “ landscape verse” is not easy
to write Pat: There is such good solid cursing in
your 12-line poem that you ought to try it on c sectarian
paper Tom : Verse on G.H.R. is as poor r.s most of
that gentleman’s jokes.. .Unsuitable : Old Bill and Manne.
. ..C.R. J. : Not badly done, but too gruesome... S'. Vigne :
Left to be called for, accordingly Nymsie : “Bush
Mate ” lame and tame... .O. Johnson : Absurd, certainly,
but not worth while sending the document a10ng....
A.L.E.S. : Write to Dr. Carroll, Anthropological Society
of N.S.W., Sydney.... Whip : Much too long-winded and
preachy H.P. : The men who know least of a subject
are generally—like you—the most dogmatic. And when
you gaily call such* a scientist as Lord Kelvin an igno-
ramus, you simply “place” yourself Tomaso: You
have literary ability, but your style is stiff and your
syntax shaky V.P.S. : The initials fit it—“very poor
stuff.” Diver: You won’t come to the surfaca
herein Yarran : That dog-story was here told many
years ago Ernest O.: Flower of D. simple and good.
For print Alone: Thought used so often before that
merely pleasing treatment can’t carry it Iconoclast:
Can’t undertake to accept matter we haven’t seen....
H.H. : Aboriginal satire on modern ways stale... .J.M. :
“A” is wrong: the system of condensing steam and
returning it to the boilers saves water enormously, but
not to such an extent as that J.C. : A trifle and not
graceful enough.... Wild Wanderer: Well, frankly, you
have no idea of rhythm ; try your hand at prose if you
feel that you must write... .E. 11.8. :If poetry could be
made by cutting up S.M : . Herald leaders into short lines
you would be a poet: you lack rhyme, metre and ideas.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS
F.S.T, :. Memo posted. Most of present lot hopeless
chestnuts....W.T. : Wheeze moss-grown A.R.B. :
“Duff” subject hideously unsavory Red N.: Cow
item ditto... .Essilmont: Too barefaced; would earn us
six months. Unavailable : Winnie A., R.8.M., F.P.G.
A Vic. Art Show.
Ten years hence the annual winter exhibition of
the Vie. Artists’ Society should seem quite in
keeping with its domicile in Albert-st., Mel-
bourne. Victorian Art comes along steadily,
not expecting much encouragement on the way,
nor getting any to speak of. The efforts of 120
various men, women and, casual girls are just now
hanging in the V. A.S. galleries for all they are
worth, and many of these exhibitors ought not to
be warned off the premises. Indeed the propor-
tion of preposterous pictures is inconsiderable.
A hundred others have something of the art that
cheers but does not inebriate. A few can be
honestly admired by people who despise the cant
of the craft.
* * * *
Because the subject is popular, and the artist is
a new arrival and a valuable acquisition, Signor
Nerli’s portrait of Pastor Bevan has been unani-
mously elected the “star” picture this year. A
three-quarter-length figure, standing book in hand,
the pose not stiff or stagey, the face a striking
likeness of the pastor as he would be, if he were
a little more thought-worn and not quite so well
fed. A severely flattering porti’ait, calculated to
lift the garrulous Doc. out of his Freetrade
fallacies. John Forde Paterson shows at his
best and his second-best in two pictures—“On
the Coast’’and “After Rain”; the one delicate
and charming, the other sickly and overstrained
in its effort to reach the unattainable, but sane
enough. A large, realistic, well-arranged land-
scape—“ Wood Carter”—by Walter Withers, is
attractive in almost all respects save the solid
background of lowering sky.
* * « *
“The Drought ” (by Hal Waugh) two oleo-
graphic men on bony steeds contemplating live
sheep and decayed mutton in a not very thirsty-
looking district is so essentially hard and uncon-
vincing that one or two illustrated papers have,
of course, reproduced it. “ Portrait of Lady Sar-
good,” by A. Handel Gear, is an inhuman treat-
ment of an amiable subject, but “Florence”
(Leslie Wilkie) promises well forthe young painter.
“Florence” is a full-length figure in a creamy
white silk dress. It stands at ease, and the
general effect of the picture is satisfactory.
Miss Violet Teague achieves some showy
failures in girl figures. “The Toilers,” by Miss
Helen Peters, is a large canvas—young women in
the foreground sewing by lamplight: ill-drawn,
misty old woman doing ditto in the background.
The picture is chiefly gloom, and the amount of
visible art doesn’t justify the reckless expenditure
on paint and frame. Bernard Hall shows an
accurate nude female figure of Grief, weeping
against a water-tank, or something, and another
nude figure of an artist’s model, seated on an un-
pleasant cane ohair, nursing a cup and saucer on
the place where her lap would be if she were
clothed. Any amount of careful work in the
flesh painting, and the stiff, dry, leopard-skin rug.
Again, Bernard Hall’s capacity for faithful re-
presentation of things is wonderfully displayed
in his “ After-Dinner Still Life.” On the
other hand, his “ Fantasia di Carnevale ” is
but a poor attempt at a poster-puzzle-picture. It
suggests a staring advt. of “ Illusions ” for a six-
penny Palace of Marvels. The funniest illusion
is a pair of pale purple legs, placed entirely “on
their own,” like an extract from the dissecting-
room of a fairy hospital.
* * * ft
Portia Geach has a fascinating work of decor-
ative art to her credit. The picture, unnamed in
. the catalogue, is a portrait of a girl in the Burne-
Jones saintly style, the bust draped in dull red
against a flat, background of peacocks’ feathers.
The composition has the charm one associates with
stained-glass windows in old cathedrals. It
remains in the memory. The same brainy artist
has failed to score even a good likeness in her cold
portrait of brother Edwin Geach, the young
theatrical worldling. No girl ought to paint her
brother, anyhow. Miss Sutherland is respectably
represented at the exhibition, likewise J. H. Schel-
terna with his familiar cattle. Norman Macgregor
earns respect among the very young artists for his
“Ti-tree Panel.” N. Carter, too, is fairly suc-
cessful in “An Old Bush Kitchen,” a warm
cottage interior, with a couple of well-placed
figures in it. A worthy thing in its way is
Dancey’s cheerful study of “ Dawn,” an allegorical
female displayed in an aesthetic frame, which
raises the tout ensemble to a glorious altitude of
10ft. or thereabouts. Other worthy things, not
being 10ft. high, are overlooked for want of space.


THE FALL OF WOMAN-OR, THE GARDEN OF EDEN UP-TO-DATE.


v a °y 5
yOy W-n e
m REID ON TOUR.
-GREAT HEADWAY WITH THE
ffiAJBL'M KT> S.
SOME TELLING HOME TRUTHS-
]Veloh£ %
tithA Net*
Rustles -
Á
iB
TV
\Yovrjofio*?
V
jfyioilfa
IH»j JhihF
MrrtililW
>{oW f«»nt.
THE SENATE.
The most interesting question at present
being discussed by Senators is, Will the
tariff be through the House by the end of
this week? With fair progress it should
be, but the probabilities' are that the
greater part of next week will also be re-
quired to, complete the schedule.
PUBLIC SERVICE REFORM.
Mr. Hart knew of a case where two
gentlemen, ..'drawing some £B5O and
toOO respectively, were carried on
the shoulders of one receiving £2OO
That kind 'of thi»g tame of < “ ; the.
■ promotion ’by . seniority system.
I know now that 1 fell into,
an error - Oot uncommon in new coaVmuni-
lies. I {get.to. work to overbuilt! nm'seli, and
that without being sure of my foundations,
and if, one day,, 1 found myself sitting on
the ground sarrounded by the ruins of ray
own ideal, I have no reason to complain, for
1 have myself alone to blame It mvosaible
that my successor may find amongst this
debus a fragment here and there which may
prove of some use to him in building up his - ii u
fvow, +tyefc u p j^eweU
Â
The first thing which the bill ddes is to
abolish the property qualification for menfi-
bership for the Legislative Council
Old £/ly -—/And 7<>« c2\ii p-
er^s^,V€ do •
-Iteti We Ija.ve Cjov (|eti SMnjt'flu deki-ii ii> iRe
bv-K o| - lreful
REPRODUCTIVE
WORK) (
railway
Tom
MOON Is
RACK
6UILT
i WITH
M
OF THE.
AIKTRAUAV
° DEBT
./i n
-Ji-SViel* W JkjU? Orff" w»Hf H«3 SJMf '*
| STATE RETRENCHMENT.
Mr. Shiels has already made a start in the?
jTreasury. There he has. by a re-arrange- s
ment of the old-age pensions branch, been;
able to dispense with the services of three s
clerks, and hopes by the end of the month to'
have made a further reduction of four clerks.'
In other words, out of a staff of 70 officers .
engaged in the head office of the Treasury,
Mr. Shiels expects to make a saving of 18
men before the end Of the mopth. '
Australia’s total public indebtedness now
amounts to about £180,000,000, V>Clb' •'
We "J olfc
j rifle Wo«|d
T(ofpoi.frcs)—
of-Hfe
. ■—BwrKc-suUj^
PROTESTANT UNION OF
VICTORIA
The committee appointed by the meeting
held at -the Assembly-hall, Collins-street, on
June 30, for the purpose of organising the
Protestant vote in Victoria, met at the As*
sembly-hall board-room yesterday evening,
To obtain the return to Parliament
of representatives who pledge them-
selves to support the above objects
of the union."
MELBOURNEIANA.


20s.
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Unrivalled non-magnet LEVER.
1 erfeci Timekeeper, Screw Cases,
dust and water tight, 20s.
Silver, 35s. Hunters, £2.
A written Guarantee given with
each Watch.
Key,
«£3los.
Keyless,
i>s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS.
ROTHERHAM SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH
LEVERS, Full Cap, Hand Finished, Extra
Jewelled Works, PerfeetTimekeeper, with Pure
Silver Cases, Dust and Water Tight. £3 10s.
Extra Quality, with Chronometer Balance,
£4 10s, £5, £5 10s, £6, £7, £8 ;
Solid Gold, £lO, £l5, £2O.
A written certificate for 3,4, 5, and 6 years.
Try one ; you will not regret it.
Fine
Dial,
255.
Railway
Dial,
30s.
LONDON
A. SAUNDERS.
NEW MODEL LONDON LEVER,
f-Plate, Full Ruby Jewelled,
Chron. Balance, J ewelled Lever, Double Roller,
Jewelled, Brynet Patent Time Spring.
255, 30s. Silver Hunter, £2 10s, £3.
Will last 25 years.
Kept in repair for two years
free of charge.
Solid
Silver,
£2 10s.
Gold
Cased,
M 4s.
WALTHAM LEVERS.
We are Direct Buyers.
Pure Solid Silver Hunting Cases, Extra
duality Movements,
£2 10s, £3, £3los, £4, and £5;
Gold Latent Cases, Walthams, £4 4s, £5 5s
Solid Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2los,
£l5, £2O, and £25.
3,4, 5, and 6 Years’ Guarantee.
Double
Case,
Solid
Silver,
£5.
/ 'X
r;^>
2^
“ FLY-BACK CHRONOMETE RS. ”
These we ha ve at Every Price and Style. In Solid
Nickel or Black, 30s ; Extra Quality, £2, £2 10s;
Split Seconds, £3los. Pure Solid Silver, as above,
£5, £6, £7, £B, and £10; Solid Gold, £l5, £2O,
£25, and £3O.
A written certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and 6 years.
TRY ONE.
18ct.
Solid
Gold, £lO
Extra
Strong,
£l2los
A. SAUNDERS.
S°lid Gold Keyless WALTHAM
LEVER. Full Jewelled Works. Patent
Action, New Model £lO, £l2 10s.
You Can’t get a Better Watch.
14ct. Solid Gold, £8 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold LOCKETS
7s 6d, 10s, 15s,
17s 6d, 20s,
255, 30s.
Post Card Gold
CHARM, 10s.
Any Name Free.
Silver, gilt, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Radies’ Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCH,
Full Jewelled, 255, 30s, £2,
£2 10s.
Price to quality of works.
Guaranteed 2,3, 4 years.
15ct. Gold
Turquoise
Forget-
me-Not
and
Tearl
Scroll,
20s.
A. SAUNDEBS.
6®=ALL ABTICLES POST EBEE.
"Watch Bepairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 2Ss, 30s, £2,
£2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5 ;
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
ALL GUABAN TEED.
Floral
PIN,
Pearl and
Tur-
quoise,
ss.
15s.
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Keyless WATCH,
Good Timekeeper, 15s;
Extra Quality, 20s.
GUARANTEED.
A. SAUNDERS.
Secret
Gold LOCKET,
20s.
Gold Boot
CHARM, 5s 6d.
Latest Style.
Solid
Gold,
£6 10s.
v Silver,
/£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ WALTHAM SOLID
GOLD KEYLESS,
Chronometer Balance,
Jewelled, Perfect Timekeeper,
Extra Strong Cases.
Pull Size, £6 10s; Small Size, £5 10s
Pure Solid Silver, same works, £2 10s
a *^ d CHAIN (Single or Double), £ii £y los, £4
rlo° S ’n i r ! et ' Solid Gold ’ £5 10s ’ £6 > £fi Bis. £7, £8
rn°‘ * £ lly , er > 10s > 12s 6d - 20s. Send for Price
Illustrated Book. Guaranteed Engl.sk Hall-marked.
Gold BROOCH, 2 Bar Diamond, with 4 Red
Blue Stones, 20s.
&
xt A A - SAUNDERS.
Newest Name BROOCH, 7s 6d •
with Raised Mowers each side (Any Name),
15ct. Gold, 15s. Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ivy and Pearl Gold BROOCH, 255;
9ct. Gold, smaller, 12s 6d.
„ , A. SAUNDERS.
Registered Gold “ Dinna Forget ’
BROOCH and Amethysts, 9ct. Gold, 17s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 80s ; 18ct. Gold, 355.
A. SAUNDERS,
tact. Gold, Diamonds and Rubies,
with Ivy Leaves, ‘2ss.
Very Cheap.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pure Double-cut o-Diamond
BROOCH, £4 4s.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Style 2-Bar Gold BROOCH,
Diamond and two Bed Stones, 20s.’
A. SAUNDERS.
New Gold Forget-Me-Not BROOCH,
English Hall-marked, 10s.
No. 1.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Long MUFF CHAINS,
Hand Made, Extra Strong, £3, £3 10s, £4;
15ct. Gold, £4los, £5, £6, £7 10s.
Price According to Strength.
La ’ es’ Curb Gold
Chair., .Snap Padlock,
2oh, 30s, 355, £2 ss,
£3 ; loot., £2 10s, £3,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6,
£1 10s, £B, £9, £lO.
10s extra for Key
Padlock.
All witlr Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
Diamond BRACELET, 15ct. Gold, three Pure Double Cut Diamonds
Safety Chain, £5.
loot. Gold 2-Heart with 2
Opal Hearts, Ivy Leaf,
Knot, and Diamond,
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct, Gold Pearl and
Turquoise Floral and
Ribbon BROOCH, £2 10s.
London’s Newest Style.
Pure Pearl NECKLETS, Solid Gold, Very Latest Style,
£3 5s ; 15ct. Extra Quality, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Raised Flowers
Larger, 6s 6d and 7s
, 5s 6d.
6d.
No. 2.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Long MUFF CHAINS
Hand Made. Extra Strong, £3, £3 10s £4
15ct. Gold £4 10s, £5, £6, £7 10s.
Price According to Strength.
msgssssssssgssssssssszsk
No. 3.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Long MUFF CHAINS
Hand Made, Extra Strong, £3, £3 10s £4
15ct. Gold, £4 10s, £5, £6, £7 10s. ’
Price According to Strength.
A. SAUJSIDERS.
New Style, Gold BROOCH, Hall-marked,
Diamond and 2 Red Stones, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Style, 15ct. Gold BROOCH, Pearl Set,
82s 6d.
A. fe.-i.. -' iJERb.
Solid Gold, Hall-marked, Eorget-me-Not
BROOCH, 10s 6d.
■
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. 2-Bar Pure Diamond, Double Cut, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Extra Strong loot. Gold, Diamonds, Rubies,
and Pearls, £3 5s ;
5 Diamonds, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
(Registered).
Gold DINKS, 20s
15ct. Gold, 32s 6d;
Silver and Gold, 10s;
all Silver, ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Dinna Forget,
10s 6d.
Our own Registered
Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Solid Gold LINKS.
Rlain, 17s 6d, 20s, 25s :
15ct. Gold, £2, £2 ss, £2 10s.
Monogram 2s 6d extra.
Silver Initial HAT PINS,
Parisian Diamonds, 4s 6d ,
Turquoise, 3s 6d.
Solid Silver, Is 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Beautifully Chased, 9ct. Gold,
large size LINES, 22s 6d.
Plain, 21s, or with Initials,
nicely Chased, 22s 6d.
15ct. Gold, £2; Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl and Turquoise
Heart BROOCH, £2 2s.
The Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lucky Heather,
Is, 2s, 3s ;
Gold, 7s 6d, 10s.
Call and See oar
Jewellery
Exhibition.
A Splendid Display.
Or Send for our
1902 Complete
Illustrated Book,
Post Pree Anywhere.
A. SAUNDERS.
Opal Band RINGS,
9ct. Solid Gold, 17s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 30s ;
18ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Buttercup Single
Stone Diamond
RING,
£3, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, 5 Opals,
£9 i rw
GENT.'S RING.
Solid Gold, Amethyst, 25s
15ct. Gold, £2 ;
18ct., £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold, 5 pure
Diamonds, £l2 10s ;
Smaller, £5, £6, £7,
£7 10s, to £3O.
Sts
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold.
3 Pure Diamonds,
2 Opal Hearts, £4 10s.
Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Solid Gold Buckle,
17s 6d; 15ct. Gold. 80s;
18ct. Gold, £2.
18ct. Solid Gold,
Pure Diamond and
2 Rubies or
Sapphires, £2, £2 10s,
£3 ; 3 Diamonds.
£2 10s, £3, £4, £5.
A
Signet Plain RING,
9ct. Gold, 20s, 255;
15ct. Gold, 30s, 35s ;
18ct., £2, £2 10s.
With Name, Band BINGS,
9ct. Solid Gold, 12s 6d, 15s;
15ct. Gold, 20s, 25s ;
18ot. Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
:
m
18ct. Solid Gold,
5 Pure Diamonds, £5,
Diamond and Sapphire
or Ruby, £3 10s ;
larger, £4 10s, £5.
18ct. Solid Gold Diamond
Band, £2. £2 10s, £3;
15ct. Gold, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold,
3 Sapphires, Rubies,
or Opals, 4 Diamonds,
£3, £3 10s, £4,
£4 10s, £>.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-made Wedding RINGS and KEEPERS.
Set. Solid Gold, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s each ; 15ct. Gold, 15a
extra heavy, 25s ; 18ct. Gold, 20s ;
extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for Card.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER AND SILVERSMITH,
815 AND 817 GEORGE-ST.,
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY.


END OF THE ‘‘ BAIL Y MAIL ” OFFER.
The Daily Mail (London) announces in our
columns to-day the final withdrawal of its
“Encyclopaedia Britannica” offer in New South
Wales. This sale was undertaken a few weeks
ago by permission of the London Times, and the
period of the contract having been reached, no
further books can be sold after Saturday, August
2nd. We understand the sale has been most
successful, exceeding that even of the Times
distribution of the same work two years ago. A
novel feature of this new offer is an extra volume
compiled especially for the use of students and
others, and entitled “A Handbook of Systematic
Readings in the ‘Encyclopaedia Britannica.’”
This volume forms a 26th and is sent gratis with
all orders for the “Encyclopaedia.” Much com-
ment has been caused by the characteristic manner
in which this offer of the “Encyclopaedia Britan-
nica” has been placed before the New South Wales
public. This no doubt accounts for its marked
success. See announcement elsewhere.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
33 of this issue *
Missing Friends.
MRS. Jda Euhrmann nte Madkmann,
or any person who can give information
concerning her present whereabouts, is hereby
asked to communicate with the Imperial German
Consulate-Geneial in Sydney.
BURMEISTER WILHELM, of Ploen, Ger-
many, is sought after by his brother, Hein-
rich, on important business, and is hereby requested
to communicate without delay with the Imperial
German Consulate-General, !) Bridge st., Sydney.
The Trustees Executors & flgency Co. [td.
ESTABLISHED 1878.
P. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman.
JOHN GRICE, Esq.
JAS. BORROWMAN, Manager.
DIRECTORS:
ROBT. MURRAY SMITH, Esq., 0.M.G., VioßtChairman.
0. M. OFFICER, Esq. Hon. J. M. PRATT, M.L.O.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
CAPITAL:
SubsoriLed, £150,000. Further Reserve Liability, £150,000- Paid-up, £90,000.
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits, £11,826 13s. 4d.
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts, and Clients at 30th June, 1902, £6,646,727 4s. 3d.
'M'OTIOE is hereby given that the Forty-Ninth Ordinary Half-Yearly Meeting of the Shareholders of the above
Company will be held in the Board Room, at the Company’s Offices, No. 412 Collins Street, on Thursday
31st inst., at Eleven o’clock.
BUSINESS :
1. To Receive the Director’s Report and Balance-sheet for the Half-year ended 30th June, 1902.
2. To elect a Director in tne place of Mr. C. M. Officer, who retires in accordance with the Articles of Associa-
tion, but is eligible for re-election, and offers himself accordingly.
3. To consider any other business that may be brought before the meeting, of which due notice shall have been
given.
REPORT.
The amount remaining at credit of Profit and Loss Account and available for distribution is £6826 13s. 4d., which
the Directors recommend should be appropriated as follows
To Divider don £90,000 for Half-year ended 30th June, 1902, at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum £2,250 0 0
„ Balance to be carried forward .. . 4,576 13 4
412 Collins Street, Melbourne, 16th July, 1902.
„ £6,826 13 4
By order of the Board,
JAS. BORROWMAN,
Manager.
Dr.
PROFIT and LOSS ACCOUNT, Half=Year ended 30th June, 1902.
Cr.
1902—June 30.
To Salaries, Directors’ and Auditors’ Fees,
including Agencies £4,177 15 0
„ Stationery, Postage and Office Expenses 690 14 6
„ Printing and Advertising 324 11 0
„ Furniture and Fittings .. .. .. 60 0 0
„ Law Costs 13 18 3
Difference in Amount Paid and Re-
ceived on Lease 37 Queen-street
Difference in Amount Paid in connection
with Mortgage on Premises and Re-
ceived on Investment of £21,400
Balance carried down
£5,266 18 9
265 0 0
92 8 8
6,826 13 4
£12,451 0 9
1901—December 31.
By Balance £6,641 3 9
Less Dividend at the rate of 6 per
cent, per annum 2,250 0 0
1902 —June 30.
By Interest on Mortgages, Stock, &c.
~ Commissions and Miscellaneous Re-
ceipts, after providing for Contin-
gencies
~ Company’s Premises —
Rents £279 19 0
Less Rates, Lift, and
Repairs .. .. 231 13 2
£4,391 3 9
602 9 10
7,409 1 4
48 5 10
£12,451 0 9
1902—June 30. —By Balance ..
.. £6,826 13 4
BALANCE SHEET, 30th June, 1902.
Capital—
Subscribed .. .. £150,000 0 0
Less Uncalled .. 60,000 0 0
60,000 Shares paid up to £llos. per share £90,000 0 0
Reserve Fund (used in the Company’s
Business) 5,000 0 0
Money owing on Open Account, &c. .. 405 1 3
Debt due on Mortgage of Freehold
Property 15,000 0 0
Profit and Loss Account .. „ .. 6,826 13 4
£117,231 14 7
Investments—
Inscribed Stock, at par, held by the
Treasurer of Victoria
Inscribed Stock, at par
£l7OO Melbourne and Metropolitan
Board of Works 3J per cent. De-
bentures at cost
Money lent on Mortgage, at face value
Money advanced to Estates and Bene-
ficiaries, at face value
Investments set aside to meet Mortgage
on Freehold Property—
Australian Deposit and
Mortgage Bank :
Deposits, at face value £14,000 0 0
2800 £5 Preference
Shares at £1 per
Share 2,800 0 0
£lO,OOO 0 0
3,400 0 0
1,678 15 0
8,095 8 11
7,736 4 5
16,800 0 0
Freehold Property at Cost £69,348 2 10
Less Written off.. .. 4,348 210
Furniture and Fittings at Cost £954 4 10
Less Written off.. .. 454 4 10
Debts due to the Company other than
those above mentioned, amounts
paid in advance, Ac
Cash to Credit in Bank of Australasia ..
£47,710 8 4
65,000 0 0
500 0 0
606 10 4
3,414 15 11
£117,231 14 7
TRUST, EXECUTOR, and AGENCY BUSINESS.
Contingent and Other Liabilities otherwise than in
RESPECT OP ANY OF THE ABOVE-MENTIONED ITEMS.
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, represented by Invest-
ments and Cash at Bankers, as
per contm £6,646,727 4 3
£6,646,727 4 3
Contingent Assets.
Advances on Mortgage of Real Estate.. £1,926,012 17 3
Debentures and Stock 972,84 S 14 3
Landed Property 2,594,917 13 4
Other Securities 1,078,917 8 0
Cash at Bankers at Credit of Trust
Current Accounts .. .. .. 74,030 11 5
£6,646,727 4 3
BALANCE SHEET
OF
THE BANK OF NORTH QUEENSLAND LTD
FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDED 30m JUNE, 1902.
Dr.
Cr.
Deposits
Treasury Note Account .. .«
interminable Debentures. . ..
Bills Payable and other Liabilities
Capital .. £350,000 0 0
Less Reserve
Liability .. 250,000 0 0
lOO,OOO 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 12,500 0 0
Profit and'Loss ... .. 2,620 13.10
115,120 13 10
£441,£50 8 8
..£236,311 1 4
.. 33,333 0 0
.. 15,700 0 0
.. 41,485 13 6
£326,829 14 10
Coin, Bullion, and Cash
Balances .. .. £49,514 17 9
Treasury Notes on Hand .. 11,011 0 0
Remittances in Transit to
Branches and Agents .. 36,975 6 7
£97,501 4 4
Government Stock., .. .. .. 26,000 0 6
123,501 4 4
Bills Discounted and all other Debts due
to Bank.. .. .. .. .. 298,422 3 10
Bank Premises, Furniture, and Stamp
Accounts .. .. .. .. 20,027 0 6
£441,950 8 8
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries, Eent, and other charges at Head
Office, 10 Branches, and 2 Agencies .. £5,781 0 6
~ interest paid and accrued on Deposits
and Treasury Note Account .. .. 2,705 12 2
~ Balance.. .. .. •• • • •• 2,620 13 10
£11,107 6 6
By Balance from last Half-year .. .. £583 9 0
~ Gross Amount of Profit for Half-year .. 10,523 17 6
£11,107 fl 5
RESERVE FUND,
To Balance,
,£12,500 0 0
£12,500 0 0
By Balance.. .. .. .. .. ..£11,250 0 0
„ Transfer from Profit and Loss Account.. 1,250 0 0
£12,500 0 0
Audited and found correct.
THOS. B. STEELE \
G. O. BE ARDMORE J
Auditors.
A. S. COWLEY, Chairman of Directors.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
We have examined the foregoing Balance Sheet, made up to 30th June, 1902, and report that we
find the several items therein stated to conform to the Balances at Head Office, and to the Balance
Sheets furnished by the various Branches, the latter being certified to by the respective Managers and
Accountants. ' ’’
We have counted the Cash and examined the Bills held by the Bank at the Head Office in Bris-
bane on the 30th ult., and hereby certify that we have found them correct.
We further certify that in our opinion the Balance Sheet is full and fair, properly drawn up, and
exhibits a true and correct view of the affairs of the Bank as slH»wn by the Books on the 30th,
June, 1902.
Brisbane, 14th July, 1902.
THOS. B. STEELE \
G. O. BEARDMORE /
Auditors.
N.S.W. PATRIOTIC FUND.
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
For the Year 1901-1902.
Presented to and adopted by the General Committee, Wednesday,
16th July, 1902.
Your Executive Committee have met fortnightly throughout the year now reported on.
Although Peace has happily been declared, there will be need for the continuance of these meetings for some
months to come, as there are still a considerable number of New South Wales men at the seat of the late War;
indeed, since the Declaration of Peace, several deaths have been recorded, and a large number of invalids have
returned whose applications had not reached us at the date of closing this report.
During the year 539 New Cases have been dealt with, and 341 cases previously considered were again reviewed on
further application for relief. .. _
The appointment of a Medical Examiner on behalf of the Fund has materially assisted the Executive Committee
in arriving at their decisions. ....... . ... . .
The total amount of Donations to the funds since its initiation is £52,419 7s. 5d., and interest received
£2734 17s. sd.
The amount distributed in Relief, from
Ist July* 1901, to 30th June, 1902, is £8,946 10 0
Up to 30th June, 1901, it was .. .. .. .. .. •• 12,440 0 0
Making a Grand Total, since initiation of Fund £21,386 10 0
This amount is made up as follows :
Widows and Children .. .. .. .. .. .* •• £1,659 15 0
Other Dependents.. .. .. .. .. •• •• •• 8,611 0 0
Wounded and Invalided 16,115 15 0
£21,386 10 0
The Executive Committee have to express their thanks to the authorities for their courteous assistance in giving
Reports in first cases, and especially in second applications where the applicants reside in the country^
The Executive have to report, with regret, the retirement from the Executive Committee of Sir William
McMillan, and Messrs. J. S. Brunton and Richard Teece. The vacancy caused by the retirement of Sir William
McMillan was filled up at a Special Meeting of the Committee on 16th October, 1901, by the election of Mr. F. Bridges.
It remains for the Committee to elect two of their number to fill the vacancies caused by the retirement of Messrs. J.
S. Brunton and Richard Teece.
Mr. Richard Teece has also forwarded his resignation from the Committee.
As provided for under the By-laws, a Statement of Receipts and Expenditure has to be published in the month
This 1 Statement! duly signed oy the Trustees and audited by Mr. David Fell, 0.A.A., Public Accountant, is now
placed before you, and, on adoption, will be published, as required by the By-laws.
AUGUSTUS F. ROBINSON,
Chairman of Executive Committee.
Sydney , N.S.W., 30th June , 1902.
NEW
Dr.
SOUTH WALES PATRIOTIC FUND.
STATEMENT OF RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
FROM Ist JULY, 1901, TO 30th JUNE, 1902. Cr.
RECEIPTS.
To Balance brought forward, Ist July,
1901 £20,536 1 5
~ Donations per Cash and Pass Books .. 1,688 13 2
’ Interest on Fixed Deposits and Current
Accounts .. •• 1,105 1 3
£23,329 15 10
DISBURSEMENTS.
By Relief Account . £8,941 10 0
„ Salaries £250 0 0
~ Medical Fees .. .. 32 0 6
~ Auditors’Fees .. .. 5 6 0
287 5 0
„ Advertising and Stationery .. .. 52 18 0
~ Petty Cash, Duty Stamps, and Cheque
Books 23 13 4
„ Balance-
Bank of New South Wales £4,004 15 6
Commercial Banking Co.,
Sydney 9,419 13 0
14,024 8 6
£23,329 15 10
To Balance brought down £14,024 8 6
„ Amount of Fixed Deposits held hy the
Bank of New South Wales .. .. 19,000 0 0
£33,024 8 6
T. A. DIBBS
J. RUSSELL FRENCH
Hon. Treasurers
and Trustees.
I certify that I have examined the Books and Vouchers of the New South Wales Patriotic Fund, for the period
from Ist July, 1901, to 30th June, 19 )2 (with the exception of those Vouchers detailed as per list), and that the fore-
going’ Statement is in accordance therewith. Fixed Deposit Receipts of various Banks in the name of the Fund, and
aggregating £19,000, have also been submitted for my inspection.
(Signed) DAVID FELL, 0.A.A., Auditor.
Sydney, Bth July, 1902.
Our Australian Black Burden.
“New Guinea” writes
Australia may have one day to face serious trouble in
New Guinea, caused by the missionaries. The position
has of late become so strained that in certain parts of the
Possession the question has resclved itself into one of the
missionaries v. the Government and the white men. In
Samarai district the most sweeping charges have been
made against small Government officials by the mission-
aries, and so far is this animosity on the part of the
missionaries against the executive officers of the Govern-
ment displayed, that quite recently the London Missionary
Society, at Vinato, near Samarai, actually charged a high
judicial officer with gross partiality in dealing with cer-
tain capital offences. The charges were entirely un-
founded. In the early part of this year several magis-
trates in the eastern division were hounded down and
persecuted by the missionaries. The L.M.S. station is at
Kwato, a pretty little island about two miles off Samarai,
where the mission has the finest houses in New Guinea.
The missionaries don’t go amongst the natives in the
interior, and many of them are actively engaged as
traders. They receive tons and tons of copra from the
natives as “donations” to the mission, and this goes down
to Sydney in the L.M.S. steamer, John Williams, freight
free. The competition of missionaries with the regular
traders has been so keen that, at a public meeting
in Samarai last January, a resolution was carried with the
utmost enthusia-:.' 1 , to the effect that the Governor be
asked to prohibit the missionaries from trading of every
sort in British Papua, and'pointing out that the practice
was becoming so prevalent and extensive as to seriously
interfere with the living of the licensed traders and busi-
ness people. The L.M.S. and Anglican missionaries also
appear in the police and criminal courts, and assume the
role of prosecutors. In every one of the trumped-up
cases of rape and murder—they always put it as rape and
murder—which they have brought against white men on
behalf of the native, dismissals have been granted. But,
still, this is poor satisfaction to the person charged, as
when an odious—even though it is false and malicious—
charge of that description, is once brought against
a man, a certain stigma will always attach to
him in the eyes of a section of the public.
In every part of the Possession the missionary stations
occupy the very best sites, and have the handsomest
buildings, gardens, etc. The missionaries run no risks,
and yet pose before the Australian public as martyrs
amongst the savages. The fact of the matter is, New
Guinea has not yet arrived at that stage where missionary
effort, as a Christianising influence, can be of any service.
The popular conception of a missionary is an earnest,
self-sacrificing, fearless man, who takes his life in his
hands and goes amongst the savage races to make friends
with them, and try and teach them. But the missionaries
of New Guinea never do this. They let the Government
parties go first, and a ter these have spread death
and destruction amongst a hostile tribe, the holy
men come behind and tell the injured natives that
such outrages were necessary as an example for their
future guidance. Then they establish a station.
The missionaries, instead of being the peacemakers and
friends of both white and black, are the active enemies of
the former, and the spoilers of the latter. Their hand
is against ever}' other white man’s in the Possession, and
every white man’s is against them. They quarrel with
the white man, and they quarrel with each other, and
between the lot of them the natives get a very lovely
time. The whole system wants thoroughly reformimr.
In the first place, missionaries should not be allowed to
trade with the natives, or compete, with native-grown
products, with white business people. Secondly, they
should not be allowed to acquire freehold lan Is —and
these the very best in the Possession. Thirdly, they
should not take an active part in laying paltry charges
and prosecuting white men in the criminal courts. They
should leave this to the Government, which is well able
to look after it. Fourthly, they should go amongs' the
natives in the interior, instead of living a life of idleness
on their comfortable stations.


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
A most useful V eterinary Book is attached
to every bottle of Condy’s Fluid. This Book
contains instructions for curing most of the
ailments and accidents affecting Horses,
Dogs, Sheep, Cattle and Poultry.
In this Book eminent Veterinary Sur-
geons recommend Condy’s Fluid as a
oertaincure for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
Broken Knees, Grease, Thrush and
Cracked Heels in Horses.I—Scab, 1 —Scab, Foot
Rot, Fly, etc., in Sheep.—Hoove, Foul in
the Foot, Wounds and Sores in Cattle.
Condy’s Fluid is made by Condy &
Mitchell, Ltd., of 65, Goswell Hoad,
London, England, and is sold by all
Chemists and Stores. Beware of Colonial
Substitutes. Insist onhaving Condy’s Fluid.
.ri.i
aw
v-
V.
GrO TO 3EIBT.J-.-
I (iOLA NI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
HATS. HATS. HATS.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
BRISJ3A.KTE.
Important Announcement to our City and Countr y
Constituents.
WALTER B RAP LEY # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Booms, 324 Georgs Surest, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted o/
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Meld at Vie Auction ltooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-s&
SIMPSON’S JUMP-SEAT SULKIES.
Good Work.
Lowest Price.
Cash Only*
SIDNEY SIMPSON, Coachbuilder, 73 KING ST., NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Mr. Barton speaking in London, July 16 :
“ In Australia they would find the Empire’s butcher.”
One of ’em, anyhow.
“ The Empire’s Butcher,” Barton says ;
Unfortunate conceit—
Rather a happy hunting-ground
For Empire’s human meat.
Now that King Ned is on the high road to
renewed health, one may be pardoned for asking
—ls not Royalty itself the vermiform-appendix
of the body politic ?
George Reid’s silly anxiety to have Lord
Hopetoun created High Commissioner for the
Australian Commonwealth is another instance of
the triumph of Hope over experience.
In face of all the talk about the hard times
and the need of Parliamentary retrenchment, no
reformer in N.S.W. Leg. Assembly is heard
demanding the abolition of the office of Sergeant
at Arms or Usher of the Black Rod.
Mr. G. H. Reid, at the N.S.W. com-
mercial travellers’ banquet, complained that can-
didates for Parliament, and therefore members of
Parliament, “don’t represent the higher intelli-
gence of the constituency.” The statement coming
from Mr. Reid carried its own proof.
Another “ snag” for the Queensland State
Treasurer this year is the Police Superannuation
Fund, reported by the Investment Board as hope-
lessly insolvent. Estimated receipts from all
sources for the year, £6000; expenditure, £20,000.
The board asks for £14.500 this year, and last year
it got £12,600.
Strenuous efforts (evidently countenanced
by the daily press) to raise a Protestant—R.C.
row for next N.S.W. general election will be
much aided if Cardinal Moran returns. That
indiscreet personage never knows when to keep
his mouth shut, and mulishly responds to every
leg-pull by his enemies.
The average income of each# inhabitant of
N.S. Wales is estimated at about £44 a year.
Consequently, the See-Owe’Sullivan Government
borrowed enough last year to support 160,000 of
the population—about 12 per cent, of the com-
munity. Think of 12 per cent, of a self-reliant
English -speaking community living on I O U’s !
Westralia still hasn’t enough women to go
round. If every two were joined by a third there
would still, in fact, be a shortage. To be doubly
accurate, the figures at the end of May were 63J
females to 100 males, which is a lower proportion
than there was in ’OO and ’Ol. Returning cohen-
tingenters. account for some of this; a swollen
stream of immigration westward accounts for
more.
Members of S.A. Assembly, finding that,
since the enlargement of their electorates, cadging
applications for subscriptions for cricket, football
and other clubs have largely increased, are trying
to combine to refuse all such applications in future.
As a matter of democracy all such subscriptions
should be treated as illegal bribes. A member’s
allowance is granted to him to live on, not to cor-
rupt his constituency with.
Q. Premier Philp, who couldn’t bear, last
year, to think of reducing Q. Governor’s salary
below £5OOO per annum (Ontario, with over
2,000,000 people, only pays its Governor about
£2000), is now about to make an onslaught on
poor old women who make £5O per annum by
cleaning out Govt, buildings. These unfortunate
women are to suffer a 5 per cent reduction as a
counterblast to the deficit.
A letter from Shepparton (Victoria) :
Same old trip—G. H. Reid, the Argus, and the cus-
tomary lie. This day’s (17th) Argus says the Dry Dog
person was met here, en route to Numurkah, “ by a large
body of farmers and townspeople.” Went specially to
Bee the reception. The “ large body ” must have been
Reid ; the crowd numbered 16, including one farmer.
About that number is liable to meet the train any day.
Nine of the crowd cheered when they saw G.H.R. The
other seven laughed.
“ Kiwi ” : Be the pow-wow as to the
King’s Coronation oath. Curiously enough, it
never seems to strike anyone that, according to
the principles of English law, the Oath is not
binding. An oath, to be binding, must be volun-
tary ; and, as the King takes the oath under
orders, no lawyer could consider it valid. [Surely
not right. What about a court-witness, who is
forced (subpoena) to give evidence on oath?—
Ed. B.]
In the last (1901) Budget, the Q. Govt,
deprecated any reduction of Civil Service salaries
by way of meeting the deficit. Now the Philp
party is reducing (or proposing to reduce) the Civil
Service wholesale, even knocking 5 per cent, off
salaries under £lOO. This bitter pill is also to be
sugar-coated with an income-tax over and above.
And it serves two-thirds of the Queensland Civil
Service right—their cowardice and selfishness has
met its reward.
Irvine’s proposed amendment of the Vic-
torian Constitution, giving a Minister of one
House the right to appear in the other for the
purpose of explaining’ a Bill fathered by him, will,
if carried, _ have decided advantages. The right
already exists in a number of Parliaments, and
the need for it in N.S.W. was lately shown by B.
R. Wise resigning his Leg. Assembly seat so as
to be able to explain the Compulsory Arbitration
Bill to the Council.
Land alienation in New Guinea should be
closely watched. The information given in the
Senate leaves several large loopholes for the enter-
prising land-shark. “Selectors actually in pos-
session can obtain 10 square miles.” To own an
acre or two, or, for that matter, a few square
yards, is to be in possession. Transfers to others
afterwards ao« freely talked of. In view of the
probable mineral future of the country, £lOO worth
of land might turn out an excellent gamble.
Queensland Premier Philp makes a half-
promise to take a referendum on the subject of
religious teaching in State schools. Just now,
the money that referendum would cost is much
more urgently wanted to reduce the deficit. Still,
if the present Government is a product of “god-
less education,” then there’s a good deal to be
said for religious teaching. On the other hand, if
the present Government had a religious training,
then godless education should be earnestly culti-
vated.
Why not empower the Speaker and Chair-
man of Committees in Parliament to impose a
HE THAT WITHHOLDETH LAND THE PEOPLE SHALL CURSE HIM.—Prov. xi., 26 (revised).
During a recent deputation to Mr. Irvine on the unemployed question, Mr. Hannah said that by thoroughly grappling with the labor question, Maoriland had
practically solved it and made herself prosperous. In Victoria there were 30 families who held 3,000,000 acres of land, employing only 500 people. If cut up into 320-
acres blocks that land would employ 51,000 persons.
At recent Farmers’ and Settlers’ Conference in Sydney the need for an effective Closer Settlement Act was emphasised by one speaker, who instanced the Peel
River estate, with its 45 miles frontage to the river, and supporting about a dozen people looking after a few thousand sheep, while adjoining was a 40-acre block
supporting a family of 13.
small money fine on members who offend against
order? “I order you to apologise and pay
a fine of ss.”—the money to go to the hospital—
r instance would have a fpllino- offpot The
lor lnstance > would nave a telling effect. lhe
niere order to apologise has no effect. A Premier
who. imposed a small fine on members of the
Cabinet for needless interruptions, declared that
after a few payments the gabbiest of his Ministers
controlled his tongue.
From the Argus, 11/7/’O2
Mr Shiels says that . . . the actual saving made in the
railway department by the stoppage of increments for the
year 1902-3 will be £24,435.
ArguS) same issue
~r „ „„„„ ~ . , , ,
Air. 1 itzpatrick says that ... the privilege of travel-
ling- on the railwaj's was availed of by the members of the
defence forces for the year ending Dec. last to such an
extent -that the sum involved amounted to, approxi-
mately, £24,000 (£23,383 11s. 4d.).
Which shows who is going to pay for the “wave
°* P a t' ri °t' lsm that recently passed over Victoria,
Dry Dog Reid says he is surprised
and intensely gratified at the spread of Freetrade
principles in Victoria, and at the present rate of
progress, &c., &c. The Freetraders, the. Bible-i-
n party, and the crowd which wants to restore
the Stuart dynasty in England, are three parties
which are always amazed and gratified at the re-
markable spread of their principles. If Freetrade
principles had only begun by spreading to George
Reid himself when he was in office, then there
might have been some kind of a spread to boast
of.
a baa formed something
described MuLy River League to protect its
aesenoea as a murray rw o j?. , 1 renre-
interests in the muddy streak which now repre
sents Australia’s chief water-way. ine league
still talks about keeping the Murray open for
navigation, though it
tralia can spare a rivffor navigation purposes.
If it were possible to d e t
ward about Morgan and eii ' ~ Queens-
flat country that stretches rig p Q
land border—to use it all for irrigation and nave
no Murray flowing into, the sea at all-the loss of
a bit of doubtfully navigable river would matter
very little.
The detailed report of last year’s census of
S. Aus., just issued, explains some of the “Con-
servative reaction ” over there. Naturally am in
is most Radical between, say, 25 and 35, and the
further away he gets from 35 the more Conserva-
tive he becomes : of coarse, there are exceptions
to this, but the generalisation stands firm for all
that. Now, though S.A. gained 2014 per cent,
of people in 10 years, it actually wound up with
4-37 per cent, fewer males between 25 and 30 than
it began with, and 3'58 per cent, fewer between
30 and 35. On the other hand, it had 4012 per
cent. more between 40 and 45 than it had in ’9l.
The only other actual decrease was of children
under 6
The true inwardness of the Kyabram
“ reform ” movement, so far as Melb. Argus is
concerned, has at last crept out. After combining
with its hated Protectionist rival for months to
prove the u ter impoverishment.and instability of
Victoria, the Argus comes along with a subtle
suggestion that the real cause of all the trouble
is the policy of Protection, and advises people to
insist upon a trial of Freetrade, just to see whether
it isn’t a better idea. Kyabram has been the
Argus game all along, and through it Syme’s
Age has forfeited its political grip appreciably.
The Irvine Ministry is said to be the first to
which Syme has not acted as accoucheur during
nearly 20 years past.
Sydney D.T. in a leader, July 21, badly
gives itself away on the aliens immigration restric-
tion question.
We shall not attempt to uphold the administration of
Argentina as a model, for it has had very many short-
comings. But (italics ours) with a territory about one-
third the size of Australia, it has of late years consistently
done its best to attract immigration, and to settle immi-
grants on the land rapidly. It has no writing test, no
prohibitions; and the population and the immigrants
must rely on their own efforts, unassisted by anything
beyond a ready access to the land.
So “ no writing-tests and no prohibitions ” against
aliens constitute the chief virtues of Argentine
Government in the D.T.’s opinion !
In its decision to start a State clothing-
factory where the uniforms for railway, tramway
and other officials will be made, N.S.W. Govt,
follows a very old-established British precedent.
And there is no valid reason why it shouldn’t go
fur . ther and insist on the cloth of which these
uniforms are composed being made in the country
_ either - n a St £ te institution or in a private
, t wb „_„ qn o; -j *m.
g w woo n en factories turned out 613 500 vards
ofclorti'ftSSSlSS
by 1900 thev had faded down to 460,187yd5. It
would be cheaper to give this industry a lift than
to pay away £lOO,OOO of loan money for relief
works, and £3500 a year interest on the loan
’ f aft-M-wor-rU
mone y tor ever afterwards.
} oo ks as though another revolution were
brewing in Maoriland. Not since the days when
the Atkinson-Russell loan and mortgage-cum-
squatter party was suddenly booted out of exis-
fence has there been such unrest among the
workers-who are now openly and seriously talk-
of the nationalisation of all industries. In
Auckland a well-written and virile monthly maga-
?™, The Pilot, has been started to advocate
immediate State Socialism, educational reform
techmca education and elective Ministries. That
ALL will ever return to the ways of the Gallant
Oaptmg Russell is incomprehensible; but when
Seddon returns he may find that a Young Maon-
land Party has been forme and grown formidable,
a platform beside winch Dick s own article
Wld seem ou,i °f date.
Labor-member Griffith’s Bill to. abolish
fees in N.S.W. State schools should be taken up
in earnest this time by every Democrat in the
Leg:. Assembly, and ushered into the Council
with such emphatic backing as will scare hostile
fossils. The Bill has never got a square chance of
settlement on its merits. Members who cheer-
fully sanction tens and hundreds of thousands of
pounds for royal visits and empty theatrical cele-
brations, oppose the remission of the children’s-
threepennies as if it involved national bankruptcy.
And it has been fought bitterly from motives of
sectarianism. Yet free education is the born
right of the children of the State, and the logical
complement of compulsory education. By the-
way, one cheeky feature of the opposition is S.M.
Herald’s long-ago leader stating that the country
“ couldn’t afford ” free education—though it could
afford to carry the S.M.H. and all the other news-
papers free through the post at a huge sacrifice.
Howl of rage from London Spectator,
reproduced by Sydney Telegraph as a protest
against Australian industry:
The perverse ingenuity of the Victorian and South
Australian Governments in particular has indeed been
desperately active in vain and costly efforts to develop
forms of industry for which the two States are either
unripe or absolutely unsuitable. Under cover of a high
tariff, woollen mills have been erected, and labor urgently
required for useful purposes has been employed in a
feeble attempt to ape the West Riding of Yorkshire.
What would be thought of the West Riding if it tried
to constitute itself into a sheep-run, or took to working
and mining for gold ? However, the microscopic results
of these expensive foibles have not seriously distracted
the attention of Australia from its great staple industries..
How indignant these far-off people get because-
Victoria and S.A. choose to manufacture some of
their own wool, and thus find employment for
about 1100 of their own people, instead of sending
the wool to England in Bull’s ship, and paying
1100 English people to do the manufacturing,
and bringing back the finished product in Bull’s
ship ! Also, consider the perverse ingenuity of
the United Kingdom in keeping 31,000,000 sheep
—twice as many as Victoria and S.A. put together
—and thus remorselessly cutting into our wool-
growing business. And if theWestßidingof York-
shire, with 700,000 sheep (250 to every square
mile), isn’t a sheep run, what is it, and why does
it try to ape Riverina in this fashion ?


Quality
First,
Price
Next.
FROM A
PHOTOGRAPH.
NO RISK
IN FIT!
We expect to sell Shoes to any lady
whose experience has told her what
a good Shoe means—that it means:
Economy, Comfort, and Satisfaction. The
quality and style of the Callaghan Shoe
quite justifies our expectation. This picture
gives a fair idea of the Shoe; but you’ll only fully
appreciate its real worth when you handle your
first pair.
12/11
POST FREE
DUTY FREE
13/6.
C AMERICAN GLACE KID SHOE for
-! LADIES, with Dressy Patent Leather
and new fashioned Collarette.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st,
SYDNEY.
©WG3 <§®£&[BOKJ[f ®
o
Sandow’s Own
Combined Developer
The Latest and Most Popular Means
for PHYSICAL CULTURE at Home.
WONDERFUL IN ITS EFFECTS.
Will serve the purposes of a whole
family.
It may be used as:
1. Wall Exerciser (for arms, body and leers).
2. Heavy Weigrht-Uftingr Exerciser.
3. Chest Expander.
4. Pair of Ligrht Dumb-Bells.
A Complete Set of Charts supplied with each
Apparatus.
S. Hoffnungf & Co., Ltd.,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE.
Sole Agents for Australia.
Quotations supplied to the Trade.
Missing Friends.
JOSEPH G. HAY,
Formerly of Lawson, New South Wales,
by communicating with the undersigned
would hear of something to his advantage.
a’BEOKETT & HORROCKS,
Solicitors,
Wentworth Court, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
PHOTOS
From Life, for Lovers of Art, Beauty, and Chic ;
Carefully Selected Assortments, Cabinets, or
Stereos, with Illustrated Catalogues and Minia-
tures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s. Money Order or Cheque
on London.
English, French, and German Rare Books.
Explain wishes and requirements, and full satisfaction
Will be obtained.
R. GENNERT,
89c Faubourg St., Martin, Paris, France.
London Bankers:
L. and SOUTH WESTERN BANK LTD., Head Office.
MEURALGIA IS RESPONSIBLE .
” for a great number of the careworn
faces so frequently met with both
in the city and country. All
neuralgic pains and headaches can
be speedily removed by taking
Newm an’S SPECIAL, NEURALOIA POWDER, 2/-
By post, 2/2.
NEWAIAN, CHEMIST, 82 King-street, Sydney.
VITADATIO
A Pure Herbal Blood Mixture.
Clerks and Business Men.
If you suffer from COLLAPSE OF THE NERVOUS
SYSTEM, due, perhaps, to HEAVY STRAIN and
PRESSURE OF BUSINESS.
Mr. S. A. PALMER,
Dear Sir,—About 18 months ago I was forced to give up
my position owing to an attack of congestion op the
brain caused by excessive study and work. For some
time I was very ill, and was under the care of four of the
best doctors in New Zealand. I found that although I
had recovered from the cerebal congestion, the nervous
system had received such a shock and become so weakened
that my medical advisers had informed me that I would
have to take perfect rest for a long time, and that it
would be from two to three years before I would regain
my strength and be what I had been prior to my break-
ing down. Knowing of the wonderful results which had
followed the taking of VITADATIO, I resolved to go in
for a course of it, and after drinking 12 large bottles I
rejoice to be able to say that I am now well and strong
again, and enjoy the best of health. I feel that I cannot
but let young men who struggle through the weary
days of their office work, feeling so weak and ill that life
has very few pleasures for them, know what your
medicine has done for me. To all such I earnestly re-
commend VITADATIO, as I am perfectly sure it will
thoroughly tone up the system, and drive all impurities
out of the blood.—Yours, very sincerely,
EDWiN C. SERVICE.
“Lintkorpe,” Newtown.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The Price of Medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin writers. Cloth, 300 pages ;
price, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 6d. J
sole distributing agents :
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane. '
A certain kiosk (refreshment) in the Bris-
bane Botanic Gardens was leased out lately at
£4OO per annum, or £8 a week—lessee to erect
buildings, etc. Previous lessee had a beautifully
soft thing on—ten shillings’ rental per week for
ten years.
Not generally known that present Sydney
Pitt-st. electric tram-line is not the first to run
along that thoroughfare. In December, 1861, iust
40 years before the opening of the electric line, a
horse-tram service was started. That was the
first Sydney tram-line, and it was torn up in 1866.
It is just 40 years ago since a N.S.W.
Parliamentary Select Committee, with Parkes as
chairman, reported to the House that the unem-
ployed m Sydney alone numbered 3000.
Attorney-General Wise’s Bill for the em-
ployment of licensed shorthand-writers to take
down the evidence in courts has the balance of
argument and commonsense in its favor, since it
wm shorten the duration of trials. Yet most
-N.b.W. Judges and barristers are against it, from
no other motive, seemingly, than that of in-
stinctive conservatism.
That old pain again
Gnawing, piercing pains ! It’s your
old enemy come again with the Winter
to torture you.
That pain, remember, is caused by
bad blood, You can never get rid of
it till you drive the disease out of your
blood with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills will cure
it just as sure as you’re born. They
are the greatest blood-builder and
nerve-tonic in the world. They strike
at the very root of the whole trouble.
In this State they have cured so many
stubborn cases of rheumatism, lumbago,
and sciatica that there isn’t the slight-
est doubt on the subject.
Read one case—write for hundreds
more. Why need you suffer when
others have been cured 1
►
“ A few years ago, rheumatic pains started in my
shoulder and arms, and made them so stiff that I could
not use them. Then the hot, shooting pains of
sciatica came in my hip and leg. My feet and hands
swelled greatly. I was in terrible pain. Doctors said
I was incurable, but twelve boxes of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills made me sound and robust.” So says Mr.
T. Dillistone, Tambaroora, near Sofala.
Dr. Williams pink pills for pale people.
Ooc NGodrsd apd €igbtb Half-Yearly Report
OF
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
LIMITED.
■ —■ " -■ —i «
Presented to the Shareholders at an Ordinary General Meeting held at the Head Banking House,.
George St., Sydney, on Friday, 18th July, 1902.
THE Directors submit to the Shareholders a Balance Sheet showing the Liabilities and Assets of
the Bank on the 30th June, 1902, and present the following report:
The balance at the credit of Profit and Loss Account, after deducting rebate on current bills and'
accrued interest on fixed deposits, reducing premises account, paying note tax, and
providing for land and income taxes, and bad and doubtful debts, amounts to ... £75,391 15 7
out of which the directors recommend the following appropriations:—
To the payment of a Dividend for the half-year at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum £50,000 0 0
„ Balance being undivided Profit .. .. .. .. .. .. 25,391 15 7
£75,391 15 7
This Meeting is called upon to elect a Director, consequent on the retirement, in terms of the
Articles of Association, of E. W. Knox, Esq., who is eligible for re-election, and has given the
requisite notice that he is a candidate for the office. It also rests with the meeting to appoint
Auditors for the ensuing year.
During the half-year a branch has been established at Leichhardt, near Sydney.
The Dividend, free of Income Tax, is now payable.
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chaibman.
Dr. Liabilities and Assets. Cr.
(Including London Branch to 30th June, by Cable).
To Capital
~ Reserve Fund
„ Reserve Capital
To Capital Paid-up
~ Reserve Fund
s. d.
Notes in circulation
Bills in circulation
Deposits and other liabilities
Profit and Loss Account
2,010,000 0
477,361 0
639,460 15
11,964,545 8
82,543 18
£15,073,911 2 9
£
s. d.
By Coin and Bullion in
hand £2,531,575 10 8
~ Cash at Bankers .. 616,137 11 0
„ Money at short call
in London .. .. 450,000 0 0
„ Government securi-
ties 1,182,908 11 1
~ Queensland Govern-
ment Notes.. .. 43,802 0 0
„ Remittances in
transit .. .. 637,271 19 10
„ Notes and Bills of
other Banks .. 26,460 0 7
5,488,155 13 2'
~ Bills discounted, and all debts due to
the Bank 9,140,293 9 7
~ Bank premises, furniture, &c 445,462 0 0'
£15,073,911 2 9'
Profit and Loss Account .
To Rebate on current bills £7,152 3 2
~ Dividend Account for payment of a
Dividend for past half-year at the rate
of 10 per cent, per annum .. .. 50,000 0 0
„ Balance of undivided profit carried to
next half-year 25,391 15 7
£82,543 18 9
By Amount undivided from last half-year .. £24,137 19 O'
„ Profit for half-year ended 30th June,
1902 58,405 19 9'
I
i
£82,543 18 9‘
Reserve Fund .
1902—June 30th ..
£1,010,000 0 0
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
T. A. DIBBS, General Manager.
A. J. SOUTAR, Accountant.
We hereby certii
iii the Head Office
the returns of die
. . . . , , , Sydney, 11th July, 1902.
ty that we have examined the bills, compared the balances and counted the coin-
of the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, Limited, and have compared'
Branches, and have found the same as specified in the foregoing Balance Sheet,
E. S. CAPE
F. T. HUMPHERY
Auditors.
The following resolutions were carried unanimously
“ That the Report and Statements of Accounts be received and adopted, and ordered to be
circulated among the Proprietors.”
YY nox > Esq., be re-elected a Director of the Bank.”
That the Honorable F. T. Humphery, M.L.C., and W. L. Docker, Esq., be appointed Auditors
tor the ensuing year.”
That the thanks of the Shareholders be presented to the Directors, General Manager and
institution »> 6 very satisfactory management of the affairs of tho
T. A. DIBBS, General Manager.


Banking. Public Companies, See.
Upon - all - Glasses - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
c#>
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3KT.S,-W.
|Qont deplete DJI. C o ,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
*]/L CASTLEREAGH ST., 74L
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
IJEW SOUTH WALES MONT DE PIETE
D. AND I. COMPANY, Limited.
74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
GENERAL MEETING.
A GENERAL MEETING of the Shareholders in the
above Company will be held on THURSDAY, 31st inst.,
upon the Company's premises, as above, at 11.30 a.m.
By order of the Board of Directors,
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
BUSINESS :
To receive Directors’ Report and Balance-sheet ; to
elect two Directors in the room of H. B. Cotton,
Esq., and Edwin Chisholm, Esq., whose term of
office expires by effluxion of time (both these gentle-
men are eligible for re-election, and offer them-
selves accordingly) ; to elect two Auditors for the
coming twelve months (Messrs. J. B. O. Miles and
J. 11. Davies are eligible, and offer themselves for
re-election) ; and to transact any other business
that may be brought before the meeting in accord-
ance with the Articles of Association.
Dated 16th July, 1902.
"VIEW SOUTH WALES MONT DE PIETE D. AND I.
COMPANY, Limited.
74 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
The Transfer Books of this Company will be Closed
from the 16th to the 31st inst. inclusive.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Dated 36th July, 1902.
'—Tin?-,
Colonial Mutual I>ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
.Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
.Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372 —assuring £26,085,346.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
fk lank of jjorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Go. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 000 ... £350,000
fbT Trustees, €*€c(itorS,
AND
ftgSOCV Conjpaov Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £160,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... ... ... ... £BB5B 7 3
Amount at Credit of Estates. Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1901 ... £6,388,976 5 3
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J Z.IMITJSI >. “
CAPITAL PAID-UP £451,307
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 181,859
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 56,000
£689,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LOUDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
In Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
THE . . .
Crra ffluim life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
Established 1879.
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection HUNTER, BLIGH and CASTLEREAGH
STREETS, SYDNEY.
The CITY MUTUAL LIFE is generally
recognised as the most liberal and pro-
gressive institution of its kind in Austra-
lasia. It retains on its books a larger
proportion of business than any other
Life Office doing business in these States.
CEO. CROWLEY,
General Manager.
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
ADELAIDE
Tyrian, Saturday, July 26, 2 p.m.
Gabo, Tuesday, July 29, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Aug. 2, 2 p.m.
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tuesday, August 4, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Tuesday, August 4, 5 p.m.
(No Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Saturday, July 26, 2 p.m.
Burwah, Tuesday, July 29, 6 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, August 2, 2 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, July 26, 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, August 2, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA point
geiialdton
CAIRNS, &C.
Lass o’ Qowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
TN€ RB€RP€€N LIH€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London.
regular three-we-ekly service.
SOPHOCLES
SALAMIS ..
ABERDEEN
H. A. Schleman
A.H. H. Douglas,
R.N.R.
A. Robb
Noon, August 1
Noon, August 22
Noon, Sept. 12
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. £55 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. £3l 10s .. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, parker $ go’s [ine
—TO—
MELHO [JUNE, HOHAIIT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
SEE JM I T.
CE JXf'ST
via
San Francisco,
California.
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS,
SIERRA
SONOMA
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P.
Length, 426 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
TIME TABLE.
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
STEAMERS LEAVE
Sydney.
Auckland.
Honolulu
ARRIVE
San
Francisco.
Aug. 25
Aug. 4
Aug. 25
Sept. 15
Oct. 6
Oct. 27
Nov. 17
Dec. 8
Dec. 29
Jan. 19
Aug. 8
Aug. 29
Sept. 19
Oct. 10
Oct. 37
Nov. 21
Dec. 12
Jan. 2
Jan. 23
Aug. 19
Sept. 9
Sept. 30
Oct. 21
Nov. 11
Dec. 2
Dec. 23
Jan. 13
Feb. 3
Sept. 15
Oct. 6
Oct. 27
Nov. 17
Dec. 8
Dec. 29
Jan. 19
Feb. 9
London,
Glasgow.
Sept. 5
Sept. 26
Oct. 17
Nov. 7
Nov. 28
Dec. 19
Jan. 9
Jan. 30
Feb. 20
fjueeasland Smelting (Jeapg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"OUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 62 Market-street, Melbourne.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. I.td. of London .
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Faiiquiiar.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000'
Amoun t of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital ... .. £2,500,000
FOR ACETYLENE GAS
“ WE ARE
THE PEOPLE.”
Over 300 of our Reliable
Acetylene Gas Genera-
tors in daily use, and all
giving satisfaction.
We also supply Table,
Portable, Street, and
other Lamps for Acety-
lene Gas and all accesso-
ries.
We carry large stocks of
Carbide of Calcium.
Send for our No. 56
Acetylene Gas Catalogue
Martin’s Advance Acetylene Table Lamp. Price £1 7s. 6d.
James MARTIN & CO.,
161 Clarence Street,
Nr. King'-st., Sydney.
ACKNOWLEDGED by both the Press and
the Public to be the Finest Organisation
of Male and Female Detective Talent in the
World for Private Inquiries. Representatives br-
avery town on earth. Consultations free.
HENRY SLATER, Manager,
1 Basinghall-street, London, England.
Cables, “ Distance,” London.
nxr. id. id.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly BV3a.il Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
G.M.S.
KARLSRUHE
STUTTGART
WEIMAR
DARMSTADT
OLDENBURG
♦RHEIN ...
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sj'dney.
Interstate First Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN, 3rd SEPTEMBER,
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
C( ALL-RED” ROUTE.
Aorafygi, A6g6st 11.
Moapa, September 3.
CHEAPEST AND MOST ATTRACTIVE ROUTE
TO LONDON.
Via Brisbane or New Zealand, Fiji,
Honolulu and Victoria.
Rates: Saloon, £35 to £66.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing: Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passengei Agent.
BtisSwan and Buccaneer.
A True Account of the operations of the
Bushveldt Carbineers, and of the sorry
fate of HARRY MORANT.
Jill “Che Breaker’s” Uerses.
The first edition has now been almost exhausted,
and a second print of 5000 is in the press. Send
orders early, to ensure despatch.
»■ PRICE ONE SHILLING.
i
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO!
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOE MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
POET PIEIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Adelaide,
Friday, July 25.
S.S. Wollowra,
Saturday, August 2
(Without Transhipment).
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Warrego, Sat., July 26.
■S.S. Adelaide, Sat., August 2.
S.S. Allinga, Friday, Aug. 8.
Jiest and Cheapest lto ate to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith Co.,
Ld. For Adelaide and VV.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THIS POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and GOOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON-Twice weekly, via Bris-
bane, Maryborough, and Bundaberg.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 8 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
via MELBOURNE—Fortnightly.
Vasseni/er A ccoininodtxtion, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. 11. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and YV. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, In Bridge-
street, Sydney, and.,Agencies at all Australasian Ports
p
AND
COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific,
Messageries Maritimes and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS' (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices.
Queen’s Corner, fitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. ANP A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
nassenn-er trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Through bookings to points in Canada, United States
of America and Europe at special rates.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
Lowest Fares and Freights.
For further information apply to
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
SMOKE
THE
INSIST
having this Brand
and no other.
Largest Depot:
231 CLARCNCC STR€€T,
S-STJOKTESY.


Ourious ad. from the Adelaide dailies just
after what should have been Coronation Day :
The Lady Sarah Moreo CJoppinger has fought a big
battle for the King. He will be spared by the Lady Sarah
Ooppinger.
Stated that Russia has 10 horses to every
sq. mile of its European area, or one fourth of all
the horseflesh on the face of the earth. The whole
British Empire is supposed to possess about
7,000,000 horses, the United Kingdom holding
2,000,000, Australia 1,600,000. Germany has
4,000,000, and Russia 22,000,000 !
That strange and demoralising insect
whose presence in the tenement is so much
objected to, was the subject of a substantial law-
suit in Maoriland a little while ago. An old lady
sold a house, and the purchaser went back on
his bargain, and refused to pay or take delivery,
alleging that the building was infested by the
undesirable animal above hinted at. The old
lady wanted damages. It was pointed out that
the noctural marauder wasn’t mentioned in the
agreement, therefore the law had to decide,
supposing the stealthy parasite was there, whether
he was sufficient cause for rescinding the bar-
gain. Evidence was called at great length,
some witnesses swearing that they had seen the
objectionable beast walking on the premises,
and others swearing that they hadn’t. Two ex-
pensive lawyers addressed the court at great
length about a small reddish object that isn’t
generally mentioned in courts or in polite society.
Then his honor reserved judgment, probably so
that he might sleep in the disputed house, and see
if he was bitten by the defendant in the night—
the animal being the defendant, to all intents and
purposes.
Y
GBS
$ I do not ask you to spend
money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Yitus*
Dance, etc. All I ask of you
is to SEND for a FREE
Bottle and to try it. X abide
by the result. A safe remedy-
approved by the Medical
« Profession.
H. G. ROOT, 28,Endslelgh
Gardens, London, N.W.
IT3
o
p
p
o
s
I
T
E
G
P
6
p
A
T
T
E
R
N
S
F
R
E
E
Art is
a
Necessity
of Life.
42/-
We are
Artists
in
Tailoring,
LONDON TAILORING DEPOT,
ME,LB. F, S. Meyers, Manager,
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerlne fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. Price 4/6 and 111,
Thousands of testimonials.
OF ALih CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W NICHOLL, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
- vrriEET. BELFAST. IRELAND.
RUPTURE
CURED
without
operation or pain.
Throw away
your Trusa.
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
1 SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., ENG.,
Cor Russell & Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
CURES
COUCH
■BMSI
USED PBOMPf^
STORS
COU>'
HJMMN’S
bmsm*
W ,UL 86 1,6VE
and COBB-
, „hfe la N«r sery -
loVS 8 9W.,^ 216 '
Cask?™* 8 ’
STOPS
COLD
CURES
CCUGH
k A
HIMSELF CURED
Mr. Robert E.
PARKHURST
wrr,™ V.??™ y - says if any sufferer from DEBILITY,
raWBASS will write liim he will inform
tnem of the perfect home cure that did the work in 1 is case.
&
Rupture.
The great Amercan In-
vention—“ Dr. PIERCE’S
■ Magnetic Elastic Truss”
is accomplishing the most
[' marvellous cures. Noth-
ing like it ever before
known. Reliable retain-
er and actual curative for
cnmfm-f r. , , , Rupture. Gives ease and
vS Established over a quarter of a Ceu-
n 6 ! ias extended to all parts of the
woiia. if ruptured investigate at once. Send
a stamp for price list and Booklets on Rupture.
st dd sfn w7 Ma P neti T C T Elastic Truss Co., 206 Post
St., San Francisco,U.S A., or W. H. Soul &Co
■MMnr i’ii? Agents. 160 Pitt St,, Sydney, nTs.W? j
((
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 65,, Postage Bd., from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
CAPILLA
HAIR
TONIC
The Hair Renewer of the flge.
All Chemists. 2/6 per bottle.
W. RICHARDS, Proprietor,
164. Pitt Street. Sydney,
2h.p. to lOOh.p.
KING MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
■SsHi
r
Noiseless Uuderwater . . .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J. F.
Telephone 2671.
WITH THE KING ENGINE— ONE LEVER CONTROLS THE WHOLE.
McDermott & compakty,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDTVBY.
JuiLk
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA!
THE WORLD’S BEST.
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS’
PEERLESS GLOSS
is an oil dressing which so softens the leather that
smaller sized shoes can be worn with perfect comfort.
“ Peerless Gloss ’ ’ is the great dressing triumph of the
world, as it imparts a brilliant and permanent polish to
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
shoes that outrivals all other dressings, and yet it does not
contain anything injurious to the leather. Beware of
imitations. Demand Hauthaway’s “Peerless Gloss,” and
take no substitute. For sale nearly everywhere. Made
only by C. B. Hauthaway & Sons, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
HEALTH GIVING,
ENO’S
COOLING, ‘FRUIT REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING. SALT.’
GOOD
HAIR FOR ALL
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting tire Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and ariving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
mr For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATUR ALINE,
B3T For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT
HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
Publications.
m
of .
bet *T
Allan's
Australian music books
&
v (
<o^
%
&
id*
soid by all Music Sellers in Australasia.
Allan a Co. pty Lr0..27f1-27a collins st.. Melbourne
TO HORSE-MASTERS.
NOW READY.
The Highly Instructive Book,
“AUSTRALIAN HORSES FROM
PADDOCK TO PARK”
By D. McGILLIVBAY
(The Celebrated Australian Horse Taming, Riding,
and Driving Expert).
A TREATISE on the Scientific Handling, Breaking,
Educating, and the General Management of Horses,
teaching the Author’s wonderful methods of completely
subduing the most savage animals living: in a few
ninutes, with upwards of 105 splendid illustrations
obtained by instantaneous photography whilst he was
at work upon the wild and raw material.
Obtainable from the following Agents :
Sydney—Messrs. Wm. Brooks & Co. Ltd., If
Castlereagh-street.
Brisbane—Messrs. Wm. Brooks & Co. Ltd.
G-unnedah, N.S.W. —Messrs. Bacon & Co.
Price, 11s.—post Tree.
20% discount allowed on large orders.
“BUSHMAN .»<<
BUCCANEER
Illustrated
HARRY MORANT :
(op the
Bush veldt
Carbineers)
S9SU9A dNtt
S3UniN3/k< SIN
By FRANK RBNAR.
The History, Verses and Correspondence of
“The Breaker.’’
PRICE ONE~SHILLING
POSTAGE ONE PENNY. All Booksellers.
Wholesale: Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney.
Retail: “ Bulletin ” Newspaper Co. Ltd., Sydney.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos.
ss. P. 0.0, or stamps.
S. RECKNAGEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Germany,
Ask your music-seller for
FREDERIC H. COWEN’S
Beautiful Song,
The Mission of a Rose
Sung with the greatest success by
Miss CASTT.T^R,
The Illustrated London News says: “Itis a gem.”
MedicaL
Rescued
From Drink
by a new discovery, odorless and tasteless w! ich any lady can
give in tea, cofl'ee or food. It does its work so silently and surely
that while the devoted wife, sister or daughter looks on the
drunkard is reclaimed even against his will and without his
knowledge or co-operation. Send name and address to THE
EUCRASY CO, 62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY NS W and
they will send you booklet and particulars free. ’ ’ ’’
Sufferers from Deafness or Head Noises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to The L. E. VEENON CO
“HUNTER ST., SYDNEY" for paml
phlet describing an entirely new self-
applied method which we wiil send nost
free on ftieutioning this paper. 1


**• c^%\o^
REUTER'S
LITTLE
RILLS
FOR THE LIVER .
The closing day for nominations for the Dunlop
road-race from Warrnambool to Melbourne is Thursday,
31st July, at the Company’s offices, 108 Flinders-street,
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Recently the well-known rider, Littlechild, per-
formed the remarkable feat of riding up the precipitous
side of the Araluen Mountains without dismounting from
his Red Bird. This is a record.*
They Stand the Test of Time
As the Best Family Medicine.
The doctor is a luxury that thousands and
thousands of people can ill afford. The necessity
of calling one in is considered a calamity when
so many people find it difficult to make ends
meet to secure the bare necessaries of life. By
taking Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills after
eating, and before going to bed, serious sickness
is averted. The stomach is kept clean and the
liver and kidneys in proper working order.
They are a perfect blood purifier, and make it
rich and red. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
are a positive cure for biliousness, indigestion,
constipation, headaches, sallow complexion,
liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils
and blotches, and for female ailments. Put up
in amber bottles, and the full name blown there-
on, and sold throughout Australasia.*
A SIMILE AND A MOKAL.—“ What the
dustman is to the dwelling in which we live,
that Hunyadi Janos is to the local habitation of
the human spirit.” Thus writes a well-known
medical writer.*
CASH OR TERMS.
THE MODEL 59
RED BIRD BICYCLE
Is Speedy, Strong and Simple in Mechanism.
Call and see the newly-arrived Roadster and Racer Patterns.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King Street, Sydney.
Hardy’s
Absolutely Pure;
Fully Matured
700 Medals, etc.
Adelaide:
CURRIE STREET
Melbourne:
COLLINS STREET
Sydney :
GROSVENOR STREET
SPORTING NOTIONS.
“ I believe,” writes “A.8.C.” to The Rnm,'
tin, from Charters Towers, “ there is a gambling law of
some sort under which ‘ Tattersall 1 is suppressed? Until
tho'n da,VS a "° 1 thou » hfc this Act applied to everyone in
the Commonwealth. But now I am undeceived The
Christian Brothers on Charters Towers held a bazaar last
week, at which spinning-jennies, raffles, lotteriL fflckw
&c. had full swing, and nobody objected An
unfortunate spieler lent his spinnino--ieiinv tT h. i,,,
or two nights, but the thirdly oftL races'
the police ‘copped’ him with it and smashed it up They
didn t smash it up at the bazaar, although there it had
done exactly the same work. Taking a leaf out of the
bazaar people’s book, the Jockey Club ran a Calcutta
dnotEt ° n b f? th ,? ays the races - This sweep was con-
ducted on the lines of ‘ Tattersall’s ’’—ballot-boxes and
a youth to draw at them. The Christian Brother^
raffled r w llfctl i swilldles - for instance,
lamed a 81-note, 58 members at Is. The winner
being a good Catholic, handed back the £1 which
was again raffled for 38s. Winner on second occa
sion was a Scotchbyterian, who quietly "soS’
the quid, and remarked— ‘ This is a verra precarious
business, and ye hae tae be unco canny.’ Then he went
for the boys ' Encouraged by
their success, the Christian Brothers raffled a £2O note
next evening ss. a ticket—but as there were only 192
entries the first night they put off the drawing until the
thud flight, when 270 entries were received. Now, where
does the wicked ‘ Tatt.’ come in with his 10 per cent,
deduction ? The Christian Brothers and the Jockey Club
reckon they got special permission from the Colonial
W , hy can ’ fc Adams? The law forbids
gambling and burglary. Why can’t I get permission
from the Colonial Secretary to commit burglary ? TYou
see, you aren’t running a gospel-shop.—Ed. B.]
• * * *
savagery of Flemington steeplechase course
has now been recognised even by the Melbourne daily
papers, and the Argus remarks No one wants to see
the steeplechase course at Flemington made as easy as
some of the suburban ones, but there seems something* in
the nature of a trap about the stone wall. Its abolition
would still leave the course a good jumping one. Race-
goers can have no objection to ‘The Cathedral,’ as this
obstacle is called, going. Very little of the jumping at
this part of the course can be seen from the stands ” So
now it is pretty certain that the superfluous stone wall
(which is too far distant to give the Standites any horror
for their money) will be taken away presently.
* * * *
Last ’Murkan mail brought the famous Yankee
trotting stallion Owhyee, and a 4-year-old mare, Zenam-
bra, for Victoria’s enthusiast, Mr. John Robertson, of
Trugamna—the home of Osterley and other top-notchers.
Owhyee’s purchase was the result of three months’ search
A few years ago he put up 2.11. Authorities agree that
Owhyee is among the finest types of trotting horse Cali-
forma (if not the U.S.) owned. His breeding* is : Sired by
Chas. Derby, 2.20 (sire of Much Better, 2.7 J, Derby Prin-
cess, 2.81, and Little Better, 2.11), dam Ida Wood (dam
of Babe Marian, 2.171, by Simmons, 2.28). In nine starts
■during 99 Owhyee won seven times, and finished second
and third on the other two occasions. Three races saw
jhim account for a majority of the best trotters America
boasted in his class. Following year he went to the stud,
and some handsome colts and fillies are said to have been
the result.
* * * *
Obit . Mr. Robt. Richards (cetat 61), among
Sydney’s best-known citizens and turf-meii. Heart
disease, as to the existence of which the dead man had no
knowledge, was the cause. Mr. Richards was part-
proprietor of the Riverstone (N.S.W.) Meat Works, estab-
lished by his father 30 years ago. At the ’time of
decease, he had 16 horses in training, and had the
reputation of invariably running to win. Juindo,
Baccarat, Merton Steel, Hazel Lad, Aurantia, Speculum,
Ferryman, Willie, Dalmore, Latem, Bonnibel, Kentucky,
Hazel Girl and Limerick Boy are some of the prads
referred to. Among the others are several yearlings
entered for “ young ” races.
* * » *
Only thing booming in Queensland just now is
horse-racing, and that flourishes. Q.T.C. reports un-
paralleled progress. Prize-money distributed during past
12 months was £ls,l79—more than £2OOO in excess of last
year’s figures. Profits totalled £6253. Biggest revenue-
producing medium was the tote, which brought £11,633.
* * ■* *
The present week makes the first bad piece of
railway travelling in the Australian XI. tour, otherwise
so well arranged. To rush up from Taunton (away in the
West) to London, thence to Manchester by night, and
back through London to Brighton, is about as bad an
arrangement as could be worked for consecutive matches.
Australian supporters in England are urging strongly
that all test matches should begin on Mondays, to give
the team the chance of a quiet journey and some rest.
As it is, the only one so arranged is the fifth, and the
other four have meant Wednesday-night journeys from
London to Birmingham, Cambridge to London, Edinburgh
to Sheffield, and now London to Manchester.
* * * *
“The weather was brilliantly fine, but the
attendance was only moderate.” Cricket cables report
bad business for the Australian XI. as the result of their
consistent walloping of the ordinary English county
teams and the weakness of the opposition in two or three
cases where they might have been given a chance to
shake up local interest. The third test, which they won,
is the only great match of the tour up to time of writing.
Their defeat by the strong Yorkshire team was a mere
mud-incident; and their revenge was discounted by the
fact that Jackson, who represents fully 30 per cent, of
the Yorkshire strength, didn’t trouble to play for his
county. The ’aughty amateur ought to have been
there to assist in putting up a good fight against the
Australians for the sake of both sides. Now that the
visitors are pretty sure to win every time, they have
reason to complain of what looks like mean treatment by
the English cricket bosses, except in the selection of test
players. The M.O. C. eleven was not nearly as represen-
tative as it might have been, and the “ England ” eleven
had no pretensions to make a hard struggle and draw a
big “ gate.” Years ago, when the tests were limited to a
series of three, the Australian programme was made more
attractive than now by the inclusion of at least half-a-
dozen matches in which the visitors were put on
their mettle, Men like A. G. Steel, in his day, followed
them from place to place. W. G. Grace never missed an
opportunity of meeting them. The crowd rolled up with
a reasonable hope of rejoicing over the supremacy of
their side, and the Australians had a good financial time.
Now that the English play is comparatively weak, the
Australians get “ only moderate attendance,” because in
match after match their victory is only a question of
weather permitting. The crowd would go to see them
bustled by a carefully-picked, even though it were not
called an “All England” team, but the recognised ex-
cellence of the Australian play, in this year 1902, forbids
any hope of seeing it fairly beaten by commonplace county
“ form.”
* * * •
Jessop last week had two more chances to
punish Australian bowling in a “ true ” Jessopian style.
Result, 13 and 21. All the talk about the little man not
showing his proper English form in Australia was mostly
nonsense. He is a fairly successful paster of poor bowl-
ing, and can keep it down more often than not. When
the bowling is tricky he hits it up and trusts to luck, or
misses it altogether. In the Gloucester match he was
clean bowled once and stumped the other time. Surely
they will not want him, or Fry, in the next All England
Eleven. Lilley is another consistent failure who may be
expected to drop out. He was a serviceable batsman as
long as he was a brilliant wicketkeeper, but ever since
that first test match in Sydney last year Lilley has been
“off.”
* * • *
Cabled last week that Australian Trumper
topped averages in ’Ome first-class batting this season
with 45j. Ranji ranged close up—44J. Australian
Trumble led in bowling, his wickets having cost only 81
runs each. Yorkshireman Haigh (9J) followed. Trum-
per’s 451 represents one run an innings better than the
Indian, and Trumble is some improvement on one run
ahead of Haigh. Present is the only time Australians
have ever been first on the list of forefront bowling and
ba tfc'ng averages. Previously several English batsmen
and bowlers always preceded Australia’s best. Trumper’s
place is all the more meritorious since it has been attained
unaided by a single not-out innings. Despite that the
weather this year is the worst remembered for any Eng-
lish cricket season, and that the period of play is little
better than half through, many new records have already
been brought along. London files, up to the end of May,
indicated that Trumper would, if not the first, be at
least the second man in England to run up 1000 runs this
season. Only Abel’s 647 exceeded Trumper’s 60S. Old-
man W.G. occupied fifth position, while erstwhile Aus-
tralian Murdoch was among the few who beat 400.
Though Abel led Trumper the latter’s average was the
better one, Jor Abel figured in 6 more innings.
Gloucestershire accumulated 155 against Aus-
tralians, with top scores 24, 23 and 21. Arm-
strong got 4 for 51, Jones 3 for 56, and Howell 2 for
28. Other wicket went Hopkins’ way for 13. First day’s
play finished with no Australian wickets for 111, put
together in an hour by Trumper (83) and Duff (21). Con-
tinuing, Duff went to 62 ere being bowled. Clem Hill
made 123, Hopkins 105, and Noble 100. Innings was
declared closed with 5 for 545. Second effort of Glouces-
tershire produced 168, biggest individual contributions
being 36, 35, and 23. Armstrong again did best with the
ball—3 for 13. Jones got 3 for 17, and Howell 2 for 42.
Duff, Ilill, and Hopkins were also tried. Match went
Australiawards by an innings and 222 runs.
* * • •
Australia- Somersetshire match began Wednes-
day last week. Somerset were first at the wickets and
gathered 274 ; best scores being 52 (twice) and 44. Saun-
ders bagged 5 for 109 and Jones 3 for 68. Australians
made 348 in their initial attempt. Duff (183) did best,
Noble (53) coming next, and Hopkins (52) third. Second
innings of Somerset produced 315. Most graceful bat of
the day, L. O. H. Palairet, scored 90 ; next to him were
62 and ex-N.S.W. man S. M. J. Woods’ 30. Jones sent 4
back for 104, and Hopkins 3 for 46. In Australia’s second
innings (with 242 runs to make) Trumper went out early
(1.b.w.), and Duff had scored 11 when rain stopped further
play with the score at 1 for 16.
* • * *
Fourth test, Australia v. England, begins to-
day (Thursday) at Manchester. Weather conditions
promise well, and as Australians have been operating
brilliantly inference is they’ll show a bold front. Fact
that Noble and Trumble haven’t been shaping with the
ball lately leads to the presumption that they are being
“saved” for the big thing to come. Summed up, Aus-
tralia’s prospects of scoring the “ rub.” are by no means
bad. Old Trafford ground at Manchester has been the
locale of six tests in the past, and of these England
gathered up two and Australia one ; the other three were
drawn. The ’96 Australian invaders won there by three
wickets ; then Iredale made 108 and Ranji 62 and 154 not
out. Three years back England’s first effort produced
372 and Australia’s 196, but the latter came very strongly
in its next essay, piling 346 for 7 wickets, and closing at
that. Three of the Britishers were out for 94 at the end
of play. Noble’s memorable stone-walling feat occurred
in this engagement.
* * • »
Return Q.-N.S.W. toe-ball match, Saturday,
was the toughest ever played by those States. Upwards
of 16,000 people thronged Sydney ’Varsity Oval and faced
drizzling rain to see the struggle. The game
saw sound defence prominent, and the manner in
which the advantage flashed from one to another,
and then back again rendered play unusually exciting.
At half-time N.S.W. was in front, 4' to 3, and soon after
resumption added 3 more ; then Q. converted a “ try,”
and brought its points to 8. Though work seemed even
from this out, Q. failed to notch any more, while N.S.W.
accumulated another 6 per medium of a penalty goal and
a try, which enabled it to finish 13 to 8 best. Q. team
was different from that of the week before. Dennis played
full back in place of Christensen, while Oxlade (specially
brought over) and Colton filled the breach among for-
wards caused by accidents to O’Connor and Anderson.
Home 15 was different, too, in that Verge and Allan
replaced Maund (full-back) and Halloran (three-quarter),
and Coomber took Wright’s place. Again Finley (N.S.W.)
shaped ahead of any other in the field. 'Wickham
(N.S.W.) was splendid in both attack and defence.
Spragg (Q.) had the high distinction of building up all his
side’s points as the result of two goals and a try. Half-
back Evans shone brightly. Verge (N.S.W.) played his
first big match, and, as full-back opposite, Dennis (Q.) did
a heap of good for the team. Bananalanders never
previously shaped so well in Sydney. Some top-form
tackling and line-kicking occurred at different times.
• * • *
Queensland football team walloped N.S.W.
Second Fifteen by 15 to 5, on Sydney ’Varsity Oval,
Wednesday week. It was a fast game throughout,
played in mud and water, with considerable dash and
good all-round work during the first half. Second half
was marred with scrambling roughness, and a succession
of mild accidents brought about frequent interruptions,
but nothing worse than a badly-fractured jaw and some r
strained sinews happened, although many confidently
hoped, right up to the last five minutes, that at least a
broken neck would round-off the list gracefully.
* » * »
Change of venue of inter-State Rugby matches
from Sydney Agri. Society’s Grounds to ’Varsity Oval is
said to have “ qui te satisfied ” Rugby officials. Why not ?
After the percentage for using the Oval is deducted,
there’ll be something in the neighborhood of £l3OO to t' o
good, and this in face of unfavorable weather on each
occasion.
* » * •
The cable tells that there is to be a speed-
contest between the flying-machines of Santos Dumont
and Hiram Maxim, at St. Louis, U.S.A. Neither of these
implements is an air-ship in the proper sense of the word.
The Brazilian machine is merely a half-navigable balloon,
and the Yankee contrivance a sort of mechanical flying-
fox, which can only keep going as long as the impetus of
the original start off the elevated railway lasts. Imme-
diately that impetus begins to fail, Maxim’s machine
begins to glide earthwards till, by the time it is exhausted,
it has settled down helplessly on the beastly common
globe again. When the ideal air-ship, the real “ Clipper
of the Clouds,” does come, it will be like Jules Verne’s
fanciful creation, heavier than the air, supported with
aero-planes driven by engines of small bulk but enormous
power. At present there is no engine which, in propor-
tion to weight, can generate the same power that a bird
does when it flies, and apparently till that engine comes
along the aerial navy will not materialise.
• * * »
Big table-tennis tourney ended at Sydney
Queen’s Hall, Saturday night, and prizes were worth
£l5O. The two absolutely best players—Horace Elliott
(champion) and D. C. Ward—won one each. Neither
could compete in both, or in all human probability Elliott
would have won both. Elliott’s style of play is as good as
a pantomime, and was a big draw, and although ping-
pong is a nice, harmless, sheep-like game, Elliott puts all
the possibilities of broken limbs, utter smash, and sudden
death into it. He swoops into corners, he flings himself
on the floor to return low drives that seem impossible,
and whether standing on one hand, lying on his back, or
standing on his head, all his strokes are clean, well-calcu-
lated, and admirably placed. He flings himself from one
side of the table to the other, and smites the ball with a
mighty swipe that would propel a 40-ton locomotive, and
if his opponent can return it he has Elliott done, as that
worthy gets so much steam on he is generally flattened
against the opposite wall. The way he gets back from
that wall to stand on his forefinger and thumb in order
to meet the return that never comes is truly wonderful.
It is a boon and a blessing to many alleged pugs now holding
their heads fairly high that Elliott didn’t take to bruising.
A bruiser who could fling himself about at such a rate of
speed would be a dangerous object to get into any sized
ring with.
• * • *
N.S.W.’s weighty premier scratch puller, Larry
Ryan, who scales somewhere near 17st., recently went
under to the big Dubbo (N.S.W.) Teuton, Bob Hastardt,
in W.A. Ryan sits on his haunches, toe to toe, and pulls
square, but Hastardt insisted upon a cleat and got down
to work sideways. R.van tried to connect again t for £5OO
a side, but t’other wouldn’t come. Explained that Ryan
hauled the German up almost perpendicular in the initial
strain, but wasn’t quite ready when the order to pull
came again. The third trial extended over 40m|n.,
through a succession of false starts, and when they did
get off the champion slipped. Ryan now challenges all
scratch-Dullers in Australia, and says he 11 back himself
to pull the best of them out of them skins.
Australian swimmers, George Read and “Dick
Cavill, went under to Britisher J. A. Jarvis, Saturday
last, in the English long-distance championship, some 50
or more yards over 5 utiles, from Kew to Putney.
Jarvis occupied lh. 12m. 27sec., Read lh. 14m. lOsec.,
and Cavill lh. 16m. 50sec. The record (lh. 6m. 35sec.)
stands to credit of ex-Australian premier Percy Cavill,
who accomplished it in July, ’97. Prior best was A.
Ibbott’s lh. 12m. 27sec., which stood six years. No
really .reliable line can he had regarding the relative
merits of these performances, as the question of strength
of current for the time being needs some getting' over.
Percv Cavill’s figures are, however, so much better than
the others that it seems safe to assume he swam faster
than those winners who went before or came after him.
. • * *
News that swimmers Dick Cavill and George
Read were second and third to ’Ome champion “ Dave
Billington in the English 500 yards supremacy (July 14)
was disappointing, as little danger was feared from that
quarter, though both Australians recognised that he had
improved and would improve considerably. Time
(6.25 2-5) indicates that Billington has come along re-
markably, for it easily wipes out previous best amateur
performance (Jarvis’ 6.35) and is but 1 l-ssec. slower than
world’s professional champion “Joey” Nuttall’sspeediest.
Dick Cavill (3see. behind the winner) also out under the
then existing amateur best, while Read (6.35) equalled it
to the fraction. Contention that neither Australian has
been long enough in the country to show his true form is
pure bunkum. It isn’t recorded that Cavill or Read ever
swam as well here as the figures for this race indicate they
are doing in England. Interesting that their conqueror
(now 19) has been swimming as “ boy” Billington since he
could move his legs, and winning, with few exceptions.
« * » •
Australian rifle team in London appropriated
the M'Kinnon Cup, shot for at Bisley (Eng.) Friday last
week, with 1328 points. Canada was second (1308),
Rhodesia (1267) third, and England (1265) fourth. M‘Kin-
non Cup was first in evidence 11 years ago. Conditions
have been altered this year. In lieu of five volleys at
800yds. in one minute at a 6ft. x 12ft. figure target, the
competitors were to fire 10 shots each at 800, 900, and
1000yds. The teams consist of 12 men, as against 10
in previous years. Also cabled that best eight scores
of Australian rifle team under Kolapore Cup con-
ditions averaged 94J. W. Sloane (Vic.) made 102, and
A. Ferguson (Q.) 101. This average is satisfactory, and
leads to the impression that the Commonwealth team
will make a big fight for the prize. Three weeks since
they averaged 96 per man, tieing the record for the com-
petition. Famous Bananaland shot, Mr. Ferguson, then
made 102; his 101 in the second practice showing con-
sistently good form. Mr. Sloane went “on his own,” and
not as a member of the team, but that 102 may make
room for him among the eight. On M‘Kinnon Cup day
M.L. reps, (with 145) won fifth prize in the Mappiri Cup,
the winners making 176.
* * * •
Black and white pug struggles ’tween negro
Tom Mitchell and Melbourne Jack Willis, at Sydney
Gaiety A. 0., Monday night, disappointed a packed house
that smacked its lips in pleasurable anticipation, for
both principals (admitted good ones) shaped in prime
trim, and brimful of confidence. Mitchell, lank-limbed
and clever, had weight, reach, and skill ahead of his
opponent, and, though floored by a stiff punch in the
mouth ere the first round closed, was up quick as a flash,
dealing out stoush freely and heavily. Midway through
the second 3mins. it was all over ; a heavy jolt on the jaw
settled Willis beyond recall, and the son of Ham won a
fight that was all his bar one blow. Australia hasn’t a
cleverer middleweight than Mitchell, who looks to possess
the physique, though some doubt exists regarding
stamina and heart; but for this there’d surely bo rocks
ahead for champion “Snowy” Sturgeon.
* » * *
Much-boomed fight ’tween ’Murkan, Scanlan,
and West Indian negro, Starlight, at Newcastle t’other
night, was uneventful and all one-sided, till Scanlan
drove a stiff punch on the chin, sending the coon out on
the boards amid a storm of jeers from disappointed on-
lookers. Time now that Starlight gave the game best
and tried something more suitable to his waning physical
powers. He is now a year or two on (he road to the
second half century, and for some time has plainly
reached only for the loser’s whack, or an equal divide
whoever won. No one minds this so long as matches are
genuinely fought; but all lovers of the game must regret
the hard knocks such occurrences as that at Newcastle
give its popularity. Though never a champion, Starlight
waS for years above the average pug in point of skill and
fighting merit. He’s about due for a rest now.
* » * «
There has been some tough fighting in Sydney
lately, but the toughest and most willing of the lot was
when negro Barnes and Lynch, said to hail from Wagga
(N.S.W.), went for each other like tigers. Right through
15 rounds they tried to deal out sudden eternity with an
utter disregard for rules or the exhortations of the
paralysed referee. Eventually they were at a standstill
and had to be called off, each looking a pitiable spectacle
and wearing a sick and sorry appearance that a hundred-
fold the small “gate” wouldn’t compensate. This writer
never saw such an amount of thump served out with such
freedom, and cannot understand how either survived so
long. There was no skill on either side ; neither knew
the rudiments of the business, and it was simply bash
and stoush, grip and throw, while a sweating, snorting
crowd howled like a collection of wild beasts.
FIRST-CLASS CONSTABLE DENIS GJJIL-
FOYLE, MURDERED AT SYDNEY.
There was a grim and most unusual tragedy
of crime in Sydney last Saturday. In the social
grades of lawlessness the distributor of counter-
feit coin, as a rule, takes a very low place
—among the pickpockets, the robbers of children
and the sneak-thieves: he hasn’t the brains and
nerve to be a confidence-man, nor the brute
courage to be a footpad or a burglar. When,
therefore. Constable Guilfoyle got on the track
of two false-coin-passers, out in a mean suburb
of Sydney—men who were passing counterfeit
half-crowns on small shopkeepers—lie got a
mate, Constable Maher, to go with him, but
of other precautions took none. It was only
a matter, to his mind, of catching the men,
or of failing to catch them through lack of running
power; and he accosted them without thinking of
his revolver, or even drawing a baton. But -the
criminals were of a desperate character, which
their mean calling did not match, and, without
word of parley or thought of putting their
chance of liberty to the test of a running-
match, drew pistols and opened fire on
Guilfoyle and Maher. The former received
four bullets, the latter three. Guilfoyle was
mortally wounded and died within a few minutes;
Maher, more lucky, escaped with slight injuries.
The murderer and his mate got safely away ; the
Sydney police, however, think that they know
the identity of the criminals, and, in that case,
arrest and punishment should be only a matter of
time.
The parson who rises above the ruck is
the one who is always ready to take a point when
he sees it. During the recent illness of the King
one clergyman made an immense hit. On Sunday
morning he got from the office of a daily paper
the latest (and most encouraging) cable news.
Then he started for. his church, and when the
special prayer was raised for King Ned, uttered
fervently :
We beseech Thee that our King may be relieved, that
his wound may give him less trouble, that his sleep may
be sound and, on awakening, he may be permitted to
smoke a little, for sucli is, under Thee, of great comfort
to a mail.
When the flock opened their papers next morning,
they regarded that parson as a prophetic soul.
“Westralian” on the new Groperlaud
railway boss: —
The appointment of W. J. George, M.L.A., to the posi-
tion of Railways Commissioner in Westralia has raised a
howl in Perth press, apparently' for just the same
■reason that the moonrise raises a howl among the dogs in
the back yard. Press and public have long been clamour-
ing that the railway' management was rotten; and the
system disorganised, and that a strong, masterful hand
was needed to set it right. Late Premier Leake fell foul
of George in the House over matters relating to Leake's
brother-in-law, Judge Parker. And Leake said some
nasty things. The public generally is now wondering how
Leake, of all men, should have appointed George to this
important post in face of his previous bitter attitude.
The troubles affecting the railways are chiefly labor
ones, and the management hitherto has been utterly
unable to grasp the situation. A big increase in ex-
penditure was incurred by an all-round increase in
wages—an increase strongly demanded by the men
and conceded by public opinion. Classification of
the service is also badly needed, and the efforts of
officers to classify only increased the trouble. The old
’Groper management was reared in an atmosphere of two
mixed trains per week. The hurry and bustle of the new
order of things set wheels buzzing in its head, and it sat
down and let the service drift. What was wanted
was a man familiar with Australian labor and
who understood the Australian workman. Leake
approached George and offered him the chance.
George has had many years’ experience in Australia
with big contracts and crowds of workers. Eleven years
right-hand man for Neil M‘Neil in railway construction in
Victoria. Went to W.A. to finish contract for Perth
Water Supply. He then took up the moribund Jarrah-
dale Timber Co. and put it on its legs, bringing it from
nothing to a big concern. Ten years ago, in partnership
with another man, George founded the Black- Swan
Foundry and Engineering Works, and developed it into a
fairly extensive business (for W.A.), and throughout his
whole career George has never had a labor dispute. Leake
recognised this, and by dropping a live, vigorous man into
the service has spread alarm and consternation into a
sleepy hollow of let-it-slide. The main howl appears
to have been generated because a man has been selected
from everyday surroundings, and not imported from
England. To bring a man from England—no matter
what his railway qualifications might be—familiar only
with English labor conditions, and to dump him down on
the W.A. railways in their present disorganised state,
was to court trouble and disaster. But to appoint any-
one without a British eye-glass and a Britishhaw" was
to rouse the ire of Jingoism, hence the hostility of tha
Perth press generally.


Frozen Fish
Has the same FRESH*
NESS and DELICACY
of FLAVOR as wHen
newly caught.
©
It can be sent with safety during the winter
months to almost any far distant railway
- -•••"- station in the State. — ==
SMOKED FISH (pur own curing) forwarded
by Parcels Post to back*country districts
Please send for Catalogue of
the different Kinds and prices
X5hQ N.S. Wo FresH Food (Si Ice Co. Ltd.
Head Office and Refrigerating Works, Harbour St., Sydney
GOOD RIGHT THROUGH..
tynssEy-HARRis Bicycles
Are reliable in every part, run easy, and always look well.
Call and Inspect our stock of these justly Famous Mounts: Cash or Terms.
l._ - Patrons of Sporting Clubs and Officials will do well to visit
opompg I\£ C| CJ 15 ■ our Sports Department. Every kind of Pastime catered for.
Massey-Harris Depot: 357 George Street , Sydney •
Branches—Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth and Wellington, N.Z.
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
BUY A
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel . .
Hammerless Gun.
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept in stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company,
Head Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £s 10s. to £l5.
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free.
McLEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OF INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER and
A PEN CARBON BOOK
makes a complete outfit with
which any
MAN,
WOMAN OR
CHILD
can write a letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy without
leaving J,he slightest sign of copy-
ing on the original.
/y
It keeps a duplicate of bills you send out, of orders, receipts, bank checks. It leaves no vague
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original.
From its testimony there can be no appeal. It will save any house or family much money by its
indisputable record.
There is no man or woman, professional or not, who would not at some time or other find
THE PEN CARBON LETTER BOOK
A True and Valued Friend.
For fullest particulars, price, etc., write to the sole
Agents for Australasia,: E. RICH & CO. LTD., Sydney BRISBANE
WHEN BABY FRETS
AS BABIES WILL
and worries himself and mamma
by insisting- upon being held, he
welcomes the rest, amusement,
and variety found in
THE COMBINED
Babjj Jumper ™
Rocking Chair
Every Time it Wriggles
The Baby Giggles—and Goes to Sleep.
You can easily move it from room to
room, or any place desirerl, saving join-
self the trouble of holding and enter-
taining his majesty, giving you time for
other duties, and at the same time as-
suring your baby health and comfort.
Physicians endorse it.
Buy one now of your dealer,
or order direct from the Impor-
ter, who sends a picture-hook
telling you all about it free.
As a Baby Combination
Jumper and Cradle, suspended
by springs, it can be instantly
detached and used as a Baby
Rocker. Adjustable into any
position or angle.
When Baby wakes up, the
slightest movement causes the
springs to respond, aoting )ike,the pendulum of a clock, it
sways gently and soothes the child to sleep.
THE ROCKER COY., 91 Clarence Street, Sydney.
PUBLIC SUPPLIED BY
SYDNEY—LASSETTER & COMPANY,
FARMER & COMPANY,
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
HANNON & COMPANY.
MELBOURNE— TYE & COMPANY, Bourke STREET,
BRISBANE-FINNEY, ISLES & COMPANY.
n
EiK E 5
□n
m
i«
hit
~~
'TT'OB the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
P ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,” “a®
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. W. ELLIS.
SHARPSHOOTINg
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett. ;
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to —
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative).
The fool honorarium magistracy of Victoria
seems to be trying to disparage the Aliens
Restriction Act just as it did the Factories Act.
The other day a Williamstown (Melb.) Bench
decided that three Portuguese stowaways —who
had failed to pass the test were “there through
no fault of their own,” and dismissed the cases.
Only a Melbourne beak could hope to arrive at
the state of mind that considers a stowaway a
I compulsory passenger.
“ Loco ” : Re the Vic. “ Spark-Arrester ”
Commission which has just sent in its report:
The Commission declines to recommend any of the con-
trivances submitted to it. Various invento.s and their
agents buzzed around while the Commission was taking
evidence, but the Board had the honesty to resist all such
pressure. No plan, apparently was submitted for keeping
the sparks in the locomotive firebox. With a good
“brick arch” and “baffle-plate” very few sparks will
leave the firebox. Good coal also emits few sparks ;
these generally proceeding from scraps of wood and rub-
bish in the coal. Unskilfulness of engine-drivers also
causes sparks. Many of these work the steam ‘ wire-
drawn,” instead of expanding it till there is little or no
blast.
Nine constables took a hand, the other
night, in conveying a woman (a ferocious biter and
kicker) to a Sydney lock-up.
By Special
Appointment.
G. H. SMITH and SON,
TROPICAL HELMET
with special air-space,
in white drill, dsc. and
in all colors in felt.
10/6 and 12/6
Eat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers,
302 Ceorge-st. Sydney
Sombrero Soft Felt Hats,
All Shades and Sizes.
Soft Felt Horn bergs.
In all Sizes and Colors.
Straw Hats. Stetson Hats.
Polo Caps, Military and Naval
Caps, Livery Hats, Clerical Silk
Hats, Etc., Made to Order
iiife/Ak
4h
HEBBLEWHITE’S
377 George-St., Sydney.
DIRECT IMPORTERS—
Scwipg MacbiQes, Bicysk Stipdrigs,
Lcttgr-Filipg CabipttS. ■ ■ .
PRICH-ZIST OF SEWING MACHINES:
WILLCOX & GIBBS, >
NEW AUTOMATIC
Hand Machines .. £7 5 0
and £7 10s.
No. 1 Treadle .. 8 0 0
No. 2 Treadle and
Drawer .. ..860
No. 3 Drawer and
Cover (as print).. £9 9 0
No. 3£ Cover, 3
Drawers and Flap 10 10 0
And upwards to .. 18 18 0
NEW VICTORIA,
Silent, Ligrht-Runnlngr Lockstitch.
Hand Machine and Cover £3 10
No. 32 Cover, Drawer and Treadle .. 4 6
No. 34 Cover, 3 Drawers and Drop-leaf 6 0
No. 35 Cover, 5 Drawers and Drop-leaf 616
0
0
0
0
NO TIME PAYMENT.
All above Prices
are on a . . .
SPOT CASH BASIS.
Why pay Exorbitant Prices when you can Buy for Cash f
SAN DOW’S
Patent Spring-Grip Dumb-Bells.
The Greatest Invention of the
Age for producing Perfect
Health and Strength.
Increased and Proportionate
Development. Marvellous
Results.
BEFORE
USING
A pleasure to use, and adapted to the requirements of both sexes, of all ages.
Chart enclosed with each Set.
Sandow’s Embrocation.
THE BEST IN THE MARKET.
Invaluable to Cyclists, Cricketers, Footballers, Golfers,
Runners, Rowers, and others.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Limited, Sydney and Brisbane.
Quotations Supplied to the Trade SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA.
Cost of Plant, £25,000. Ground Area, 60,000 square feet.
TO
Mine
Managers,
Engineers,
Storekeepers
and
All Users of
Rubber Goods
The
Quality
DUNLOP
HOSE
r Suction
Garden
Fire
J Steam
Hydraulic
Air and
, Brewers.
PACKING
INSERTION
VALVES
GAS TUBING
SPRINGS
BELTING , Etc.,
is absolutely the finest procurable.
Our Prices will be found as satis-
factory as our Quality.
Prices and Samples on application.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. OF AUS., LTD.,
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne; and at
150 Clarence Street, Sydney. 59 Franklin Street, Adelaide,
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane. 154 Bafrack Street, Perth,
128 Lichfield Street, Christchurch, N.Z.


TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
The Irish Education Board has decided to
have the Erse (Irish) language taught in the
National schools. This tongue—inevitably doomed
as a speech-medium—has yet been carefully con-
served in the literary form by a small number of
appreciators of its philological and historical
value.
“ Cornstalk ” to The Bulletin :
I notice that Bulletin, like other Australian papers, is
under the impression that there are no unemployed in
Maoriland. Now, I left Sydney at beginning of March,
and did not find employment till end of May, though I
can do aim any kind of outside work. I have been in
a store also for several years and have good references,
but I spent £3O roaming all over M.L., seeking “ collar.”
I know of hundreds of unemployed. There was a meeting
of them in Wellington while I was there, and I saw an
advt. about that time offering first two weeks’ pay to
anybody who could find advertiser a billet. Again, store-
keepers here don’t consider Sydney or Melbourne people
as up-to-date Maorilanders ; in fact, it repeatedly hap-
pened that the heading “Sydney” on my references
caused them to be promptly handed back, unread, with
—“Very sorry; but you Sydney people are not ‘up’
with us, and wouldn’t understand the trade.” This
amused me at first, but the matter soon got serious, and,
when one employer gravely assured me that Dunedin was
larger than Sydney I gave it up, and am now working in
a coal-pit.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
Sundry recent items in The Bulletin give
interest to the following, from Cloncurry Advo-
cate (Q.):
During the past three months there has been great
mortality amongst the blacks in this district; nearly every
week one or two have died. Last week two died, and the
week before, one. During the period mentioned at least
20 must have succumbed to sickness and disease. Queens-
land at the present time has two or three highly-paid
officials who are supposed to be looking after the blacks,
or, as they are called, “Aboriginal Protectors.” During
their appointment, one of them—Dr. Roth —visited this
district once. He had a casual look round the blacks
here, but beyond that has done nothing. There were
many of them at that time suffering from disease, but no
effort on his part was made to alleviate their sufferings.
They were allowed to lie and rot away in their camps—a
danger to their fellows as well as to those who resided in
the vicinity. It would be far better for the blacks and
the settlers out in these parts if the “ Protectors” were
retrenched out of the service, and the salaries and the
allowances they receive were put into flour, tea, sugar
and meat, and, with a well-supplied medicine chest, sent
to the different police stations, with instructions to give
all unemployed blacks a certain ration.
“ F.C.” : Encountered Melbourne's peri-
patetic swaggie, who used to wallaby round the
city day after day, t’other afternoon, and hardly
recognised him. Had it been three months hence,
I might have thought he’d been to the Coronation.
He was in his right mind, and clothed in a black
flogger, light pants and bell-topper—all somewhat
dilapidated but still passable. Also, he had ex-
changed Matilda for a robust cane and a paper-
bag, which was being used to collect butts, lunch-
remnants, and other scraps. Melbourne’s city
swagman is a mystery. A faint legend has it that
he was once a duke, but fled owing to a shortage
in his cash. Another theory is that he is the lost
Austi’ian archduke.
Lord Charles Beresford’s frank statement
of the truth that “the colonies are of far more
value to the ‘ Mother ’ country than the ‘ Mother ’
country is to the colonies” will strike thoughtful
critics as being the wisest of Imperial Jingo
utterances. It is only the dull official British
Tory of the ancient Barnacle brand who nowadays
adopts a tone of haughty parental patronage in re-
ferring to the Greater Britains. The up-to-date
Beresford pats them on their brawny young backs,
saying in effect “of course-you’ll-never-desert-us,”
and taking an affirmative answer for granted.
That’s the right cue for the political John Bull.
Weave some strong threads of flattery into the
silken bond material and it will last for years.
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
Constance Clyde writes on some social
matters: —
Various printed remarks on various small women’s
questions now before the public have brought me to the
conclusion that the 20th century man will not understand
woman any more than the 19tli century man did. Take
the Melbourne Women’s Hospital trouble. It began with
the committee’s desire to differentiate between married
and unmarried women in the maternity wards. I
do not think there should be any differentiation,
but the she-committee is not necessarily a joint and
several cat for thinking otherwise. Because man does
not care particularly whether he is considered respectably
married or not, he thinks women should be broad-minded
also._ The only way for man to understand feminine
sentiment on the matter is to imagine that an Institution
were formed in our midst as a Refuge for wounded
soldiers. He must also imagine Chat for some reason or
other this, the only Refuge for Atkinses, came to be largely
filled by Atkinses who had flagrantly disgraced themselves
by cowardice or treachery in the open field (supposing
it were possible that enough Atkinses were discovered
to have thus disgraced themselves). In such a case,
the few honorable Tommies forced to take refuge in this
institution would certainly want to have a different uni-
form, or something to show that they had not failed in
what is considered man’s chief virtue. It is possible,
likewise, that the honorable men outside would want to
uphold the honorable men inside in their desire for
differentiation, and would not be at all responsive if the
outside woman came along and told them to uphold their
fallen brother Tommy and not to break the bruised reed.
The Legitimisation Bill is another matter which shows
how little man understands woman—woman, who has the
making of social laws. I understand that the Bill is to
raise the social stigma from, &c. Man always talks of the
social stigma as if it could be raised by machinery or
dynamite, and raising it would supply useful work for
the unemployed. The stigma will remain after men have
passed forty bills telling it to go.
Man, the section of him that wears a monkey-
beard and puts cold water in himself by way of
dissipation, is being very much surprised just now
on anti-barmaid platforms because quite nice girls
prefer the bar, with moral temptation, to the kitchen
without. He does not understand that the occasional
disrespect with which the bar-lady may be treated as a
woman is nothing^.o the continual disrespect with which
Mary Jane is regarded as a human being. Mary Jane is
not supposed worthy of being allowed to join in the con-
versation of people who are not Mary Janes ; she is the
only woman that a man permits to bring in the coal-
m Una '^ e< ?' 18 a ' so conscious that she escapes
Moral Temptation (when she does escape it) mainlv because
her hands are large and red, and she doesn’t look
picturesque when travelling down the passage on her
knees with a large pail of soapy water and a scrubbing-
brush beside her. Consequently she is not at all grateful
for her escape. She has not even the consolation of feel-
mg' that man admires her for her superior virtue, because
nowadays man considers bad women just as good as good
ones. In Pope’s day he considered good ones as bad as
bad ones, which sounds the same, but is really quite
Cheapest House in Australia for EDISON
Phonographs Records
“BIJOU,” with 6 Records .. .. in n
WDiirw ” with 12 ® eoor( is .. 510 0
EDISON HOME,” with 24 Records Sin n
COMBINATION A 1 “GRAND,” taking both
Large and Small Records, with 12 Records 6
Concert (sin.) Records and Large Horn ’ in in n
EDISON RECORDS, English and American
per dozen .... inn
CONCERT (sin.) RECORDS,'per dozen!! o 0
Send for Splendid New
Illustrated Catalogue
containing 5000 Selec-
tions to choose from.
Electric Fans, with Bat-
tery, £5 ; Electric Bike
Lamps, 21s ; Flash
Lights, Scarf Pin Lights,
10s 6d; Vapour Bath
Cabinets, 20s ; &c., Free.
Records can be posted
to any address.
Machines carefully
packed and forwarded
to any part of Austra-
lasia.
REEVES & CO.,
KING WILLIAM ST ..ADELAIDE,
Brooches at
Manufacturers’
Prices !
These Brooches are absolutely the best Brooch
values ever offered in Sydney. Why ? Because
they are sold at the same prices at which
many jewellers buy to sell at Retail 1
3/e.
12/6.
They are beautifully designed, are solid 9c. Gold,
Hall-Marked.
Thousands of Brooches to Choose from.
L. I. FLEGELTAUB,
WATCHMAKER and JEWELLER,
96 KING ST., SYDNEY (and at London).
“ DETECTIVES.” Acknowledged by
w . botll the Press and the Public to be the finest
organisation of Male and Female Detective talent in the
World for private inquiries. Representatives in every
town on earth. Consultations Free. HENRY SLATER
Manager, No. 1 BASINGHALL STREET, LONDON
ENGLAND. Gables, ‘‘Distance,” London.
Presents that mill please
’OU cannot possibly be disappointed by visit*
ing us, so come here whether you have
a definite idea of what you want or not.
We offer you the biggest variety and the most
reasonable prices it is possible to offer.
If you have not seen our new Catalogue,
ask us for one. If you live out of town
send us your name and address on a post*
card and you will get one by return mail.
No. F4ft>B.
Silver-plated
and Pearl
Bread Fork.
11s 6d.
No. F3462.—Fine Leather, and Silver-
Mounted Pocket Book, 10s 6d.
No. F3939.—Gent.’s Silver Hair
Brush, 21s.
No. 374 A.—6 Silver-plated Tea Spoons
and Tongs, 10s 6d.
No. 363.—A1 Silver-plated Sugar Tongs,
3s 6d.
' :
m.
No. 253.—501 id Silver Match Box, 10s 6d.
Silver
Glove
Buttoner,
Is 6d.
412 GEORGE 5
SYDNEY.
No. 20. —Gent.’s Opal
Ring, 18ct. gold,
£4 10s.
No. EBo3l.—Tasteful 9ct. Gold Bangle, £ll7s. 6d.
No. B4B9o.—Dia-
mond Ruby and
18ct. Gold Ring,
£S 10s.
No. M.—lsct. Gold and Opal Fly Brooch, £llss.
No. 120.-
-15 ct. Gold, Diamond and Buby
Brooch, £2 7s 6d.
15ct. Gold Heavy Band Bracelet. £4 4s. Smaller, £3
No. E6659.—0ct. Gold Engraved Bracelet, £ll7s 6d.
No. 193.—Links, 9ct.
Gold, 15s 6d. 15c.
Gold, £1 10s. Silver,
4s 6d.
No. 197.—Links, Oct. Gold,
£1 ss. 15ct. Gold, £2 ss.
Silver, 6s 6d.
No. 121A.—15ct. Gold Anchor Brooch,
£ll2s 6d.
No. E 6251. —9ct. Gold Bird and Heart
Brooch, 12s 6d.
No. E77o7.—9cfc. Gold,
Pearl and Turquoise
Lace Brooch, £1 Is.
!!■ caa:
Fine Diamond Marquise
Bing, £4O.
No. 241.
Diamond - set
Scarf Pin,
£3 17s 6d.
No. 240.
15ct. Gold
and Pearl
Pin, £1 ss.
No. F 6128.— Silver-plated Toast
Rack, 12s 6d.
IKfcMSii
No. F3s62.—Silver Cabinet Photo.
Frame, 16s 6d.
No. E 7072 Silver
and Ivory Rattle,
13s 6d.
No. E 6444. Engraved
A 1 Silver-plated Napkin
King, 5s 6d.
Pine Opal and 15ct.
Gold Heart, £5 5s
Smaller, 755.
No. EB499.—Purse and Card Case,
4 Silver Corners and Lock, £1 Is.
No. 359.—Silver-plated Breakfast
Cruet, 13s 6d.
Silver-plated
Spectacle
Case, 14s 6d.
Guilty?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
lAM to die to-morrow. The Law says so. He
who judged me said that never had he tried so
vile a wretch, inasmuch as I had wilfully killed a
pood and just man, blameless in his life and
respected by all.
Let a score of years fall from my life. Now I
am happy again in an everyday sort of way a
good home, steady work, and a girl-wife, of whom
I think the world.
One night when I came home it was to find her
gone, leaving no word, no trace behind All
search proved useless. Well, I started to go down
then in the ordinary dull, commonplace way.
Oh, yes ! I know what any person of well-
balanced mind would say : “ How weak !-how
foolish ! Very likely. Anyhow it was a case
with me of down lower yet and deeper still, till
I struck the level of those who hunt the cows from
their lair at night to lie warm in their place, who
feed as the pariah dogs feed.
We met then. In the sink of vice and misery
that stagnates beside the current of social life, we
came together. Husband and wife. We met at
the police-court; I for drink—l forget how on
earth I found the means for that orgy; she “on
the vag.” She was not used to it, I could see
that, watching her across the barrier that divided
men from women. The cry of “ Silence !” the
rustle, and th.en the sudden hush of the place as
the magistrate entered and took his seat, seemed
to rouse her, for she raised her head and looked
straight at the Bench. Then—the look in her
eyes as she shot galvanically to her feet, swayed a
little, finally remaining stiff, a speechless figure
of horror. They called her name —the name I’d
learnt to love her by. The charge was read, but
no sound passed her lips. The magistrate spoke
How do you plead? Guilty, or not guilty?”
His voice seemed to stir her strangely. Once,
twice, her lips parted without sound ; then, with
one more effort, the words came—“Guiltv ves •
both of ml” ’
For a second his face betrayed him. Watching
both, I saw his look of recognition—and hers. I
had found my enemy. The next moment his
voice, impassive as usual (I had been there before
and knew that voice), gave her sentence—three
months !
I was at the gate to meet her when her time was
up, and low as we had both fallen, battered as we
both were, I think we were nearer happiness then
than for many years. While she lived, the devil
of revenge was quiet, but, with her gone, it woke
again.
For weeks I shadowed him—this man of justice
who had sentenced as a vagrant the woman he had
made one—l shadowed him night and day till my
chance came.
And so to-morrow I die.
E. S. H. PARSONS.


PSi? |T T«
L-J
WITHIN 2 WEEKS
or NEVER!
THERE is going to be a big change in one of the conditions of Colonial
life after two weeks more. A staple article, which used to be re-
garded as a luxury because its price put it into the luxury class -
a staple article nowadays regarded as a necessity because every
man requires it —and because for the moment it is within every-
one’s reach, will undergo a great change.
PSV'TT® ,
A
i—J
T\)\S Cbai)gs li)tcreStS Vo(i.
ALTHOUGH the “ENCYCLOPEDIA BRITANNICA” has not long been sold by the
DAILY MAIL upon the half-price and sixpence a day plan, so many people have bought
the book on these easy terms that we have all come think of it as a cheap book that every man
can buy. . .
Unhappily, that condition of things is almost at an end. The contract, m virtue of which the
DAILY MAIL offers the “ ENCYCLOPEDIA BRITANNIC A,” expires in two more weeks. If
you do not order the book at once you will soon find the original publishers’ terms again in force
when you do order it. It is hard to realise this, for, although the “ENCYCLOPEDIA BRITAN-
NICA” is only a book after all, you find it as indispensable as your daily or. weekly paper when you
have once begun to use it. Your newspaper is, indeed, incomplete without it.. You cannot
really enjoy reading the news of the day if you have no means of obtaining full light upon the
various subjects with which the news of the day is concerned. Unless you think about
what you read, the newspaper is wasted. If you think about what you read, all sorts of
questions present themselves to your mind, and the “ENCYCLOPEDIA BRITANNICA” is the
one exhaustive and comprehensive library of reference that answers all questions. If you were told
to-day that the price of your favourite paper was going to be raised to a shilling, but that you could
still obtain it for a penny a day if you subscribed for it in advance, you would make haste to book
your subscription before it was too late. In the case of the “ ENCYCLOPEDIA BRITANNICA ”
you are offered the 25 volumes at half the regular cash price charged by Messrs. A. and C. Black, the
publishers of the work, and you are not asked to pay for it in advance. As a matter of fact, you are
not even asked to pay for it on delivery ; you pay ss. now and the Daily Mail sends you the 25
volumes at once, and the monthly payments at the rate of 12s. a month by which you complete the
purchase will not begin until you are actually using the books. There.is no question about the value
to you of such an offer. The man who fails to accept it will not lose his chance, because he thinks the
chance is not worth taking, but only because he postpones too long the taking of the simple step
which brings the books to his door. You are safe if you apply to-day —that is the only sure way.
Carriage free as far as Sydney. Immediate delivery.
THE FINAL DECISION.
"THE TIMES-” Printing House Square,
[COPY.] London, E.C.
«« D ear Sir,—l regret to say that we cannot renew the arrangement under ivhich you sell * The
Times’ Reprint of the ‘ENCYCLOPEDIA BRITANNIC A’ for monthly pi yments. Our contract
with Messrs, A. and C. Black, is itself limited by pneise restrictions, and I may recall to your mind
the fact that when you first suggested that the * Daily Mail’ should be enabled to offer the * Encyclo-
paedia,' you were informed that if any such arrangement were made it must necessarily be of brief
duration. Yours faithfully,
“ The Editor, * Daily Mail.” “THE MANAGER.’’
The issue of the “ ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA” now offered by the Daily Mail is the Times’
Reprint of the Ninth and latest edition, as issued by its original publishers, Messrs. A. and 0. Black.
The work is divided up into 24 volumes of 850 pages each ; the 25th volume contains an elaborate index to
the whole, and a detailed list of contributors. The handsome volumes measure Ilf inches in height, 9J
inches in depth, and 2£ inches in thickness. The binding is, in every case, the best of its kind. The dark
green cloth is as strong as cloth can be, and the morocco used in the leather bindings is so rich in color, so
soft at once and tough, so fine in grain, that no one will regret the small, extra payment which secures
an added dignity and durability due to so noble a book. The Encyclopajdia contains 388 full-page plates,
671 maps and plans, and over 9000 other illustrations. For the MS. alone of the 30,000,000 words, which
occupy the 22,000 pages of letterpress, more than £60,000 was paid to the 1100 contributors, and the style in
which all this valuable matter is got up makes the work the most costly ever offered to book-buyers. It is
this most costly of books that is now, for a time, within reach of everybody.
THE TIME CANNOT BE EXTENDED-
OUR OFFER MUST END FINALLY ON AUGUST 2nd.
It is absolutely certain that the many hundreds who will, judging hy past experience, leave the matter open to
the last moment will find, -when in sending in their orders, that they are “after the fair,” and that the book which they
so long desired to possess cannot become theirs upon these remarkable terms, and that when they purchase it, as
they undoubtedly will do, they will have to do so on very different terms and pay carriage cost from London. In
fact, there is only one thing which a would-be purchaser should do if he wishes to make absolutely certain of availing
himself of our offer, and that is to act to-day.
if;
;j
Q
AUGUST 2, 1902,
THE VERY LAST DAY!
ONLY TWO MORE WEEKS
(A.TTGK 2),
THEN NEVER AGAIN !
rtioQjnri
m
mama.
□r
3
MONTHLY PAYMENTS — ORPER FORM- eno good after august 2nd.]
The Subscriber should fill in and cut out this form and send it, with 5/ (or cheque in full), to address given below.
Cheques to be drawn to the order of the BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
To The Manages,
The “Daily Mail,”
New South Wales Office,
Mutual Life of New Yoek Building,
P.O. Box 1612, Sydney.
Monthly payments to be made to the BANK OF NEW SOUTH
WALES. Only the first payment of ss. need be sent to the “Daily
Mail.” Subsequent payments to be made to the Bank of New South
Wales, Sydney, or any of its Branches.
Prices under Cash Plan of
Subscription given below.
.1902.
Please send The Encyclopaedia Britannica, 25 Vols. (9th Edition) at the prices named below.
I enclose 5/-, and I agree to complete my purchase of the work as follows :
For the Cloth Binding'S ... ... ... Thirty further payments of 12/- per month.
For the Half Morocco „ „ „ 16/- „
For the Three-quarter Levant „ „ „ 18/-
For the Full Morocco „ „ „ 22/-
Strike out three of
these lines.
The first of these monthly payments to be made upon the delivery of the complete 25 volumes, and the succeeding payments on the corres-
ponding day of each month following. Until sucli payments are complete I engage that the volumes, not being my property, shall not
be disposed of by sale or otherwise. I further agree that if, owing to unforeseen circumstances, of which you shall be the judge, the
volumes cannot be delivered, the return of the deposit of Five Shillings to me shall cancel this agreement.
Strike out adjoining 'l
paragraph if Bookcase V
not desired. &3T J
Please also send a Revolving' Bookcase, for which I agree to make (after the payments for the Books have been
completed) further monthly payments of the same amount until I shall have paid 60 Shillings for the
Bookcase.
( Signed)_
[ b.l^s2 ] (Address)
Please Address the package to_ .
Carriage free as far as Sydney. Beyond Sydney carriage paid by subscriber. The case containing the 25 vols. weighs about 210 lbs. Cost of
carriage may be learned upon application to local RaiHvay and Steamship Agencies. The Bookcase weighs 84 lbs.
CASH SUBSCRIPTIONS—PRICES.
The prices have been fixed at the lowest possible point for the benefit of those who prefer to make Monthly payments. A discount averaging
10 per cent, on the Monthly payment prices is allowed on subscriptions accompanied by cash in full. Those who prefer to pay cash in advance
should therefore remit as follows: —Cloth, <£l7 ; Half Morocco, .£22; Three-quarter Levant, <£24 ; Full Morocco, <£29. If Bookcase is
desired, £3 additional should be remitted.
THESE PRICES APPLY EXCLUSIVELY TO SUBSCRIPTIONS RECEIVED NOW IN RESPONSE TO THE PRESENT OFFER.
( Occupation)
NO
TIME
TO
SPARE.
BOOKS ON VIEW. Specimen Volumes may be examined, and Orders booked at
NICHOLSON and CO.’S Music Warehouse, George-street, Sydney.


Alex. Peacock chuckles delightedly over
Irvine having collared his Reform Bill. Mean-
time, how is Irvine, with scarce a visible majority,
going to keep his political legs ? There is always
hope for the weakest, politically or physically,
in that strength-giving beverage, D.C.L. Whisky.
Judicious appeals to that genial stimulant work
wonders in sustaining the appellants through
periods of storm and stress. The wise—in politics,
business or elsewhere—never neglect their D.C.L.
Once taken, it is never forsaken.*
Wagga Wagga Show this year takes place
on the 20th and 21st August. £925 is offered for
competition, and entries close on the sth August.
A. F. D. White, late of Echuca, is secretary this
year, being elected in May last out of 124 appli-
cants. Wagga has long been celebrated for its
Sheep Show, and this year the schedule is well up
to the mark.*
The Plague of London.
There are few events about which greater
misconception exists than the plague of London
—that terrible visitation which caused 100,000
deaths in the. year 1665, almost depopulating
England’s capital. Comparatively few people
know what manner of sickness that plague was,
for happily it has for many years been quiescent
the world over. Yet London is not without a
plague to-day, though it be less deadly than that
of 1665. A great many Londoners regard the
tax-collecting fraternity as a plague; others so
describe influenza; while some (and these with
strongest reason) apply the term to indigestion.
But indigestion is not only the plague of London ;
it deserves the greater distinction of plague of
the world, for wherever there are people there is
indigestion. Some people suffer from it the
greater part of their lives; others wisely fight
and conquer the malady, as Miss C. Halton, of
New-street, Brighton, Victoria, did. Miss Halton
writes thus, on January 15th, 1902:—“I was
fairly robust from my infancy until the age of 18,
when ! became a martyr to indigestion and
anaemia. A hard, dry cough settled on my
chest, and my friends feared that I was sinking
into a decline. My aunt, with whom I lived,
took me to Daylesford to consult a doctor, but I
went from bad to worse under his treatment.
Afterwards I .was placed in the care of a cele-
brated Victorian herbalist, who undertook to
restore. my health in three months. But just
when his medicines seemed to be doing me some
good I had a relapse and was worse than ever.
My stomach become so delicate that I was
obliged to subsist almost entirely on broths, dry
toast, and a few soda biscuits ; and even this light
and scanty fare occasioned me intolerable pain.
I remained in this wretched condition for three
years. During that period I must have consumed
gallons of various medicines, and all to no purpose.
Then my uncle, advised by a friend, bought a
bottle of Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup from
Allen’s store in Daylesford. I had very little
faith in its virtues when I first began to take it,
I had been so frequently deceived by other
patented preparations. But, to my intense delight,
after a, few days I observed a change for the better.
I continued to take the medicine, and in a few
months it completely restored me to health.
When first I began to take Mother Seigel’s
Curative Syrup I was very thin and pallid, and
weak as an infant. Now I weigh eight stone
nine pounds, have a hearty appetite, and can
work as well as any woman in Victoria.”*
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Under the Direction of .. Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative .. .. Mr. Allan Hamilton.
SIX WEEKS ONLY,
THE BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING,
WHEN WE WERE TWENTY-ONE,
a Play in Four Acts, by H. V. Esmond.
S3T MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY, at 2. "S 5&
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, BLAND HOLT’S
Great Attraction,
THE 6REAT RUBY.
POPULAR PRICES—3s„ 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
RITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), JULY 24,
LAST NIGHT of HANDS ACROSS THE SEA.
LAST NIGHT of HANDS ACROSS THE SEA.
FRIDAY, JULY 25,
GRAND VALEDICTORY BENEFIT to
Miss MAUD WILLIAMSON and Mr. ALFRED WOODS.
Miss MAUD WILLIAMSON and Mr. ALFRED WOODS.
The above Favorite Artists will appear in
W. S. Gilbert’s World-Famed Comedy,
PYGMALION AND GALATEA.
Admission—3s., 25., and One Shilling.
amusements.
QRlterion theatre, Sydney;
Lessee .. „ .. Mr. 0. M. LEUMANE,
NEW OPERA.
MATHIS!
Saturday, July 26, 1902.
im~ FOR SIX NIGHTS ONLY.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Lessees .. .. Messrs. LEE and RIAL.
Sub-Lessee .. Mr. FRANK THORNTON.
Representative, Mr. Mayne. Agent, Mr. H. P. Lyons
THORNTON COMEDY SEASON.
The Management feels more than gratified with the
ENTHUSIASTIC and HEARTY RECEPTION
accorded to the
Sparkling and Unique Comedy,
A LITTLE RAY OF SUNSHINE,
and has pleasure in recording another
STERLING, UNQUALIFIED, DISTINCTIVE, SUPER.
LATIVE and ARTISTIC SUCCESS.
EVERY EVENING.
A LITTLE RAY OF SUNSHINE.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and One Shilling,
on view at Elvy’s.
Box Plan
IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
Immense Success of PAUL CINQUEVALLI.
Unqualified Success of MARK ANTHONY, the great
London Society Entertainer and Story-Teller.
BARNEY FAGAN and HENRIETTA BYRON, TOM
WOOTTWELL, WILLIAMS QUARTETTE, BABY
PARKES, &c., &c.
Prices as Usual. Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
ICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE?
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.m.
THE JACKSON FAMILY.
MR. and MRS. SIDNEY DREW.
HARRIS and WALTERS. PROF. MACCANN.
LULU ZESCH. DORA TAYLOR. ERNEST BRINKMANN.
THE WILTON BROS.,
The Greatest Horizontal Bar Act Extant.
Prices—2s. 6d., 25., Is., and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hendv. Treas., Julius Grant.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, headed bv Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN.
EVERY EVENING. 2nd WEEK of the Latest London
Success. The First Time in Melbourne,
THE 10.30 DOWN EXPRESS,
An Entirely New and Sensational Melodrama.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. George Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING. LAST 6 NIGHTS of
the Phenomenal Operatic Success of England & America,
A CHINESE HONEYMOON,
Now Exceeding its 300th Performance at the Strand
Theatre, London.
t3T" Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Wednesday Matinees.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, R. Stewart. Treas., E. J. Tait.
THE GREAT EVENT OF THE OPERA SEASON.
EVERY EVENING, for the First Time in Melbourne,
the Famous Gaiety Musical Play,
A CIRCUS GIRL.
Prices as Usual. TB&
Box Plan at Allan's.
AIETY THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING,
DAN BARRY’S DRAMATIC CO.
IN POPULAR DRAMA,
AT POPULAR PRICES.
M AND GAT.
LECTURE BY
MAJOR R. W. LENEHAN,
Late Officer Commanding Bushveldt Carbineers. A
Stirring Record of 26 Months’ Campaigning.
Major Lenehan will deliver his first lecture in Australia
at the
CENTENARY HALL, YORK STREET,
on
TUESDAY, JULY 29, at 8 p.m.,
Giving his intensely interesting account of THE
SENSATIONAL AND HUMOROUS IN WAR.
Admission—3s., 25., and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
Under the Direction of JAMES MACMAHON.
AMBROSE PRATT, Hon. Sec.
Committee :
The Hon. L. F. Heydon, M.L.C. William Martin, Esq.
Col. J. H. P. Murray. (President A.N.A.).
Major F. Freehill Frank Fox, Esq.
(Consul for Spain). David Fell, Esq.
W. R. Beaver, Esq. J. W. S. Lucas, Esq.
Maurice E. Price, Esq.
o -w nxr
XX A. X. li.
LAST APPEARANCES IN MELBOURNE
OF
ANTON IA DOLORES.
26th, 28th, 30th July.
Matinee, 2nd August.
PIANIST
MR. CLARANCE NEWELL
Plan at Allan’s.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., Is.
||J|URRUMBIDGEE PASTORAL and AGRI-
m CULTURAL ASSOCIATION.
Wagga Wagga Show
*925 PRIZES &W & 925
20th & 21st AUGUST, 1902.
ENTRIES CLOSE TUESDAY, sth AUGUST.
HOLIDAY EXCURSION TICKETS, ALL LINES.
SHOW SALES, FRIDAY, 22nd AUCUST.
Entry Forms, Prize Schedules, &c.,from
A. F. D. WHITE, Secretary.
The Sydney Exchange Co. on 30th June 1002
Closed a very moderate half-year n0 * ’ LaU^’
t.- j Added to Total
Profits. Dividends. Re- Re-
£ serves, serves.
June,lS97.. 987 7 per cent. = 1,050 15120
?u„ C e 898 " Ull l ” ” V O5O W
June, 1898 .. 1,125 7 „ ~ 1,050 75 15737
Dec., 1898 .. 1,050} _
SSSjyS::® ? ;; n tSS £
June, 1900.. 849 7 ” r’osO -
Dec., 1900 .. 915 7 „ 1 050 _
June, 1901.. 498 7 „ „ 1,050 15 067
Dec., 1901 .. 1,219 7 „ 1 050 169 15 236
June, 1902.. 701 6 ” ”’m - gjjjj?
The directors ascribe the reduced dividend to “ increased
e3 3? e ? d ! ture chiefly by additional taxation,”
which is possibly the mercantile community’s wav of
saying- something nasty about the Federal tariff. But
the chief trouble is the drop of £364 in the gross earnings
a matter which isn’t mentioned. Expenditure is only
&153 more than it was six months ago, and only £72
more than it was a year ago. A debenture debt of £2l 000
was incurred about the beginning of 1900 to pay for ’the
enlargement of the building, and (possibly by reason of the
interest burden) things haven’t been very good since
then.
• * * •
B-H. Prop.’s gross profit for some recent half-
year periods, with a few other figures :
Half-year to Ore Treated. Profit.
May, 1898 .. 204,731 tons .. £177 567
Nov., 1898 ~ 204,067 „ .. 152*876
May, 1899 .. 202,693 „ .. 142’180
Nov., 1899 .. 206,193 „ .. 144*492
May, 1900 .. 232,487 „ .. 129 576
Nov., 1900 .. 293,451 ~ .. 167*795
May, 1901 .. 296,389 „ .. 1021505
Nov., 1901 .. 305,628 ~ ~ 66 293
May, 1902 .. 308,878 „ .. 681236
Metal prices (averages) for the last three half-years
Lead. Silver.
May, 1901 .. £l4 2 1 .. 2s. 4jd.
Nov., 1901 .. 11 16 7 .. 2s. 213-16 d.
May, 1902 .. 11 4 6 .. 2s. OJd.
For the last half-year, comparing it with its predecessor
this looks pretty g00d—3250 tons more ore (which isn’t’
worth mentioning) gave £11,943 more profit, although
lead averaged 12s. 2d. less, and silver 2 9-16 d. less. And
it looks all the better work still, when into the picture is
taken the further item of a small decline in the metal-
value of the crude ore. The profit is equal to £2 2s. 3d.
per ton of the lead output, as against £1 17s. per ton in
the preceding half.
About the most interesting item in the B.H.
Prop, report is the announcement that the co. "has
decided to adopt the Huntington-Heberlein roasting (de-
sulphurising) process, the object of which has been ex-
plained in this column once or twice. On account of the
sulphur in the concentrates, the smelting is very slow ;
last half year the concentrates so outpaced the furnaces
that about 18,000 tons of concentrates had to be sold. The
new process will make the concentrates a better smelting
material, and it is believed that the co. will not sell any
concentrates at all. Also, the sulphur being got rid of,
the smelters will be able to get out more of the silver and
lead. Nevertheless, though it was hoping for better
things, the Sulphide Corporation was told by its chair-
man recently that the process (which has been installed
at Cockle Creek) was only just paying its way. Anyhow,
whether this process answer or not, there are enormous
savings to be made around this point; and as there is
naturally therefore keen competition among experimen-
talists in the matter, the B.H. Prop, has not tied itself
down very fast to this particular patent, and is merely
working on a royalty basis. »
* » * *
What are B.H. Prop, shares worth? One can
only answer that by asking another —What are silver and
lead worth ? On recent prices shares are not worth any-
thing like the 345. which is the market quote. In twelve
months 2s. has been paid, and in the same time the sur-
plus of liquid assets over liabilities has gone from £385,551
to £389,657, which shows that the co. has been distribut-
ing all it has been earning. Two shillings a,year—17
years to get your money back in—that is not good enough
by a long street. Of course, improvements are always
being made in extraction processes, but hitherto they
have not even kept pace with the declining value of the
crude ore. Also, of course, in the last 12 months metal
prices have been much below the average ; and, presum-
ably, it is this fact which keeps share-prices up. In that
case people who “ fancy Brokens when the metal-markets
harden ” had better paste-up somewhere the fact that the
hardening is already very liberally discounted.
* * • *
Advices from London state that a prospectus
has been issued for a co. to work the Kiandra alluvial
deposits. Cable states “ capital 400,000,” but does not
indicate whether it is in pounds or shillings. The report
probably applies to a project initiated by Mr. David
Marks and his sons, who have applied for leases for 500
acres in the locality.
* * • *
Royal Standard Co., Stewart’s Brook (N.S.W.),
after years of prospecting, seems to have got on to the
continuation of the lode for which they have been search-
ing. Where discovered the lode is 2ft. thick, and is
showing gold freely. Capital exhausted and reconstruc-
tion probable.
* i * «
Bulletin has it on undoubted authority that
negotiations have already been entered into with a view
to the amalgamation of Mt. Lyell and N. Lyell mines.
London directors now in Australia may affect to pooh-
pooh the statement, but they are challenged to deny it.
* * • *
Mount Morgan G.M. Co. holds its 17th annual
meeting on 28th. The reports of the working of this
unique “ show ” for the last 12 months—in the face of
more intense drought trouble than prevailed even last
year—are interesting enough. Gross tonnage of pav-
stone mined and treated for year 213,907 tons ( a decrease
on 1901 of 1554 tons). Yield, 144,5370 z. (a falling-off of
29,2960z5.) ; the approximate average of 13'46d\vt. per ton
with a cash value of 525. per ton, is also a big drop from
previous year when it stood at 16'13dwts. and 65'28 shil-
lings respectively. Average value per oz. of bullion this
year £3 18s. 7d. per oz. In addition to ore mined, 18,569
tons of old tailings were treated for a yield of 31020 z. and
a profit of 12s. Id. per ton on the treatment. These tail-
ings have been lying in a huge stack at the lower works on
the side of the creek, and thousands of tons of them have
been washed away for miles and miles with each successive
rise in the river. They were the refuse from the old
barrel process of chlorination—used in the days of the
million-a-year divs. The tailings which have thus floated
away at various times are now providing about 50 men
with a good living. They have taken up the bed of the
river for miles down as ‘ ‘ sand claims,” have put a series
of wooden troughs in, and, under the very noses of the
co., are saving the copper with which the tailings are
impregnated by the simple method of precipitation. The
co. has now its own plant on the job, so very little more
is going the way of the sand claims. The actual cash
handled for the year was £574,572, of which £570,337
came from gold. (Figures for 1900 —187,3520 z., £748,919
cash ; 1901 —173,8330 z., £691,040 cash.) Out of this
£204,166 was paid in divs. This was a shrinkage on last
year of £145,835. With the last dividend the number
since the company started has been 176, and the amount
£6,129,166.
» • * *
The special meeting of the Wallaroo and Moonta
Copper Co., to be held on 28th, ought to be a lively affair.
The meeting has been called at the instance of several
shareholders who wish to sack the directors. The charges
formulated against the directors are red-hot.
* * * •
Great Fingall (W.A.), has at last topped the
five-figure mark, the return for June reading 10,4690 z.
from 6534 tons. The full 60 head of stamps are now Tun-
ing, and it is anticipated that from this out 7500 tons will
be treated monthly for about 12,0000 z. Latest reports
from mine are very satisfactory.
* * *
The June returns from the Lancefield and
Childe Harold, Laverton (W.A.), only confirm predictions
that the district had been greatly over-rated by local and
other skiters. 1772 tons for 7190 z. and 1710 tons for
700 oz. are the respective figures for these two mines. As
the average in each case is only Bdwt. per ton, including
the cyaniding of tailings, readers can easily guess that
prospects, when sulphide ore has to be dealt with, will he
anything but rosy.
• * * *
As usual, directors of Sons of Gwalia (W.A.), in
annual report, make all manner of excuses for the failure
I( J h ? lr P redlc K°™- First of all, the ore only averaged
lzdwt., against predicted 23dwt. Owing to this unfore-
seen calamity it proved impossible to place the 25,000
reserve shares, hence £22,000 out of £30,000 borrowed to
pay the div. in June, 1900, is still standing at debit,
rsewick, Moremg, and Co., who are solely responsible for
co. s dilapidated condition, say “ that the geological
cnaracter of the ore deposits gives every hope that the
Darrenness of the northern section is but temporary.” As
rfw ba *T e " ness is daily becoming more pronounced,
, u ii anr . °\ s sanguineness, judging by past results, is
wholly unjustified. Thisco. is still consigning its gold to
London and remitting proceeds back, at a loss of 13s. per
cent, at least.
* » * *
Great Boulder Main Reef (W.A.), another
Moreing-bossed concern, also shows up badly for last
Revenue realised from treating 23,938 tons for
33,8600 z. was £124,028. Although this works out £5 3s. 4d.
per ton and total cost of mining and treatment is given as
±.2 3s. 6d., the only div. paid totalled £13,000, or 10s. sd.
per ton. This shows that costs are understated by no less
than £2 9s. _sd. per ton. Of course, this is for deprecia-
tion, which in W.A. is excluded from costs. As treat-
ment plant is now only fit for the scrap-heap, the finan-
cial position of 00. is considerably below zero. £2OOO has
i n J^£ ended for en S ine capable of winding to 1500 ft.,
only 500 ft. below present depth. Owing to bad roasting
in dilapidated furnace, cost of cyanide varies as much as
os., equivalent to 51b. or 61b. per ton treated. Water
costs 6s. to 7s. a ton. Ore in sight, of ounce value, on
May Ist, is estimated at 6000 tons only, so that present
position of co. is far fro o rosy. Below 600 ft. level no
continuous ore body h i been located. In face of this,
asks shareholders to believe that it refused
£260,000 for the property. This co. also consigning gold
to London at an extra cost of £7O monthly compared with
Perth mint charges.
* * * *
Bewick, Moreing and co. have gained control
of the Cosmopolitan (W.A.) by leading the recent bear
raid, and so coming in on the ground floor. Now stated
that manager Hayes will be replaced by a more discreet
individual, who can hold his tongue and look wise, and,
as in the case of all mines controlled by the same firm,
debar inquisitive strangers and pressmen. As B.M. and
co. got 78,250 shares for the 50-head mill and 36 acres of
scrub, their power as bears can be well understood. Pros-
pects of property excellent if investors are satisfied with
controllers, as it contains a large free-milling quartz reef
hke Great FingaH, and not erratic lodes like those at
Kalgoorlie. Equipment of mine is being improved by a
new air-compressor and 20 drills, also a new winding
engine and pump. The area held by co. is 455 acres,
more than all the producing Kalgoorlie mines combined.
Main shaft is now down nearly 750 ft.
• » * *
“Cosmo” writes from Kookynie, W.A.: A
Bulletin par (21/6/’O2) states: “Cumberland Niagara
(W.A.), whose cutting of the Englishman lode has created
such a scare among holders of the Cosmopolitan,” &e.——
Well, as Cumberland co. are working the same reef now as
they have from the surface, the Oosmop. holders have
nothing to be scared about in that direction ; and it is
the Englishman lode (which is a quartz reef) all the same.
The recent strike in No. 5 level is undoubtedly the same
reef which has been worked in the higher levels,
but it is much stronger than it was there and
it carries more gold, and it is only fair to mention
that it pinched from 12ft. thick to 2ft. before the
level was finished. You can walk up the underground
northern boundary of the Englishman in the Cumberland
from No. 4 level, and in places step across and see the
same reef being stoped in the former show, as has been in
the latter. As both shows are down about same depth,
and are pegged end on to each other, and their main
shafts —both underlays—are about a quarter-of-a-mile
apart, and the reef is stronger and better in the bottom
of the Englishman shaft than it is, or has been, on any
other part of the property, it is difficult to understand
why there has been any scare at all. Development work
is not far enough ahead in either mine. While No. 5 level
was being driven in the Cumberland, under-hand stoping
was going on at No. 4, and that is where most of the
stone which was crushed in April came from. The reefs
here pinch out and make again, but the walls are always
there—which can’t be said of most W.A. reefs—and
the country is solid granite. Some of them improve at a
depth, and that is what has occurred in this one. Owing
to its flatness, the stone has to be shovelled down the
passes—it won’t run—and the difficulty is the same when
mullocking, but, judging by present appearances, the
Cosmop. can pay a good deal for extra shovelling, and
still have a bit left for divs. as well, but tipping is an
uncertain game while the stopes follow the bottom of the
shaft so closely.
* • * *
Oroya (W.A.), after wasting time and money in
diamond-drill boring from No. 8 level, has now started
cross-cutting for the continuation of the rich Brown Hill
chute. This chute, it was anticipated, would be cut in
Pomeroy shaft at a depth of about 700 ft., but it appears
to have been thrown 100 ft. to the east, which is very much
better for the Oroya, but a facer for the Kalgurli. Driv-
ing, upraising, and sinking on the chute, where already
located, are exposing very rich ore. Trewartha Jones,
consulting engineer of this and various other W.A. cos.,
is expected in Kalgoorlie shortly, so that the mines are
being well inspected, if badly handled, by’Ome authorities.
* * • •
Westralia Mt. Morgans has purchased at
auction, for £7700, adjoining Guests mine, containing 69
acres. This property was sold to J. Bull in May, 1899,
for £lBO,OOO in £1 shares in a 240,000 share co. The flo-
tation didn’t catch on, with result that only £14,000 was
subscribed, which has long since disappeared. Mine is
equipped with 10-head battery, and from all accounts, is
a cheap purchase. The new 30 heads of 15001 b. stamps
are in course of erection, and when they start will more
than double output.
At Poverty Point.
“ T.D.” : Gerardy has aged an apparent decade since he
was in Melb. little over twelve months ago. The ’cello is
the coffin of its master, as a rule. It demands such
infinite attention, so many hours upon hours of the
closest application daily, and as the virtuoso has to lean
caressingly over his instrument all the time, pulmonary
trouble is common. Strauss, the clever young Sydneyite
who died in the States three or four years back, is a case
in point. The only perfectly-healthy front rank ’cellist I
can call to mind is Hattenbach, beloved of Melb.
students. An artist to the digit-tips (where it is of course
essential), Hattenbach seems to thrive and physically
expand, instead of withering away with the rest of them.
Fitzmaurice, formerly of Rickards’, is off to India this
week with a vaudeville co., including Priscilla Verne and
about ten other people. There is always money to be
made in India by a manager who takes a fair amount of
capital and a careful selection of Australian girl. But it
is necessary to draw up the girl-contracts with a sub-
stantial saving clause. The story goes that when
Willard’s opera co. was at Rangoon, not so very long ago,
two of the lady principals seized an opportunity to get
married when the boss wasn’t looking. He had been
suspicious of the intentions of a pair of languid white
johnnies who were haunting the show, but he hoped to
get away to the next town ere it was too late. At the
last minute, however, the johnnies came along and
claimed possession of their new-made brides—couldn’t
think of letting them remain on the stage, bai jove,
doncherknow. Willard explained that the blooming
brides would be subject to a penalty of £3OO each if they
left the co., whereupon each husband in turn wrote out a
cheque for the required amount, and bore his goddess
away in triumph. £6OO seemed satisfactory damages at
the time, but Willard had to suspend business for seven
weeks before he could replace those two too-attractive
girls.
“ S.S.” : Seeing May Beatty letting herself go and re-
velling in comic ugliness, I reflect upon the rarity of the
theatrioal lydy whose art rises superior to her vanity.
Maggie Moore is, or was, wonderfully funny in a broad
low-comedy character, but I never saw her do broad low-
comedy under her own management. The only time I
remember seeing her in a truly farcical character was at
the Princess’s, in a comedy called “Our Flat,” I think,
when Mag played an influenza-smitten slavey, her make-
up being a most generous piece of caricature, and the
actress drew heaps of choice humor out of the grotesque
slattern. The world has stacks of money for the woman
who can and will do that sort of thing, but the sex would
rather live plainly than look plain.
Harry Rickards, in order to take hold of good things as
they chance along, has resolved to live half his time in
London, and keep in touch with U.S. and the Continent.
Experience teaches him that the best thing pays best,
despite his having to pay so much- better- for the best.
The variety business is a heap more reliable and safer
than the running of plays. A variety turn that gets
home effectively in London, Paris, Vienna, or N. Y., can
be depended upon almost to a certainty to get home in
Australia, too; but managers who deal in operas and
plays cannot reckon the greatest success elsewhere any-
thing of a cert. here. Their biz. is an eternal game of
chance.
May Beatty’s sister Maud at one time gave indications
of being the finest principal boy in Australia, but the
wear-and-tear of Pollard’s opera told on her voice, as on
many others, including, for that matter, the one-time
pretty mezzo that May now devotes to reciting the ambi-
tions of the slavey in “ A Chinese Honeymoon.” Also,
Maud married, and no principal boy is quite the same
when she takes to domesticity.
“Melb.”: Never saw a big audience more intensely
delighted than at a lecture by one Prof. Mudd, in Wesley
Church, July 10. He was botanist with King Ned, n&e
Prince of Wales, throughout the Indian tour 1875-6. This
lecture has been given scores of times round the back-
blocks of Australia, etc, Mudd, a bluff, blonde man,
probably a Boer, or lialf-Boer, sworn admirer of the
Prince, of course, but a genuine humorist withal. Every-
body but His Maj. came in for thumps, which faintly sug-
gested what Mudd could do with a Republican audience.
Says he—“ Perhaps, friends, you think I’m unduly exalt-
ing myself in this contact with Royalty, but I bear in
mind I’m only Mudd ! ” Like Mawworm, he likes to be
despised—at a hob a head.
Queen Alexandra is rapidly getting a London reputa-
tion for frisky tastes. She went to see “ Sapho,” and
then to “ Zaza ” (described by the press as simply “ the
impudent realism of the French comic papers”). But her
subjects should in charity remember that the Queen is
quite deaf.
“Deadhead”: Your par. re the lost allusions in
“lolanthe” omits, perhaps, the most striking of all.
“ To-night,” says one character, “ Strephon introduces
his bill to throw open the House of Lords for competitive
examination.” “ And he’ll carry it too,” replies another.
“ Yes,” assents the first, “ he’s a Parliamentary Pickford;
he carries everything.” From the first production of
“lolanthe” in Australia, no mere local saw that joke.
(Pickford is the great carrying firm of London.)


RESTORING NERVE STRENGTH
DURING the reign of the good Queen Victoria, GREAT STRIDES TOWARDS SUCCESSFUL ISSUES were made the Medical a ScienSof
TRICITY JUDICIOUSLY APPLIED, proved a valuable and reliable aid, combined with reconstructive medicines, in the restoration o f i-i ft Lt r ,'oitv correctly
world-wide celebrity! including THREE PHYSICIANS TO THE LATE QUEEN .endorsed l fact m a practical a £f F r | C Xentlalto l«Mand permanen! Health Following
applied to an ENFEEBLEDSYSTEM.and a degenerated vitality'.GAVE NECESSARY NEW LLFE e s 1 CI d R P, ULATION ACUTE NER-
. The influence upon nutrition of the Electro-Medical Tre?*™®”* ‘f ““„S°MUST be treated until
stituted the greater the prospects of cure. A few weeks course of Electro-Medical Treatment, by infusing into the w * followed bv less exhaustion after slight exertion, improved appe-
electro-medicated current, and at the same time assimilating through the system specially prepared reconstructive rem , . healthy and nerve-strengthening exercise. A standard of
tite, stronger digestion, increased desire to enjoy life happily, with ability to obtain natural, refreshing, life-gmng sleep, and to sustain healthy ana nerve strengmemng
general good health is assured which all men desire to possess and all men covet.
ONE FALSE STEP
ONE FALSE STEP may mean a LIFE LOST, and
where a person suffers from a protracted Nerve-
Disorder or persistent Stomach or Kidney trouble,
it is best to act at once. Thousands of persons in
Australia to-day are languishing in pain, ignorant of the
fact that the SPECIALISTS of the
Freeman*Wallace Institute
can, by their new methods of Medicine and Electricity,
relieve many of those diseases classed as “ INCURABLE ”
by the medical profession. In some instances only a few
weeks’ treatment is sufficient to ensure magical results, and
eradicate a complaint which had been racking the system
and draining the vitality for years.
Life cannot be Purchased,
but HEALTH CAN BE PRESERVED. THE WISE
MAN neglects no opportunity to retain the Health which
he knows is to him Success and Happiness, and the Wise
Physician evades no chance to eradicate disease, when a
patient’s symptoms warn him of danger. Hesitation with
danger ahead is fatal. POVERTY is the
Train-Bearer of Disease
and PROSPERITY and PLENTY are the SERVANTS of
HEALTH. All Happiness waits upon the Healthy Man ;
the difficulties that beset life but invite him to victory. The
SPECIALISTS of the FREEMAN AND WALLACE .
INSTITUTE make such men. PATIENTS FROM ALL
Parts ©f Zlustraiasia
consult them, and return again to the scenes of their
existence, HAPPY IN STRENGTH, PHYSICAL EX-
CELLENCE, AND CONSCIOUS POWER. From all
centres in Australia they daily receive grateful testimony
that they have made thousands of lives worth the living,
and have lightened the cares and brightened the homes of
countless afflicted ones.
w< *g3|fc
P
A
m
v\\-
I
*2
Mr. Joseph Megson,
EFFECTIVE TREATMENT
THE SPECIALISTS OF THE INSTITUTE guaran-
tee to cure any person who, through disordered
functional nerve-force or muscular power, finds that
Life has lostlmuch of the joy
that waits upon the strong, healthy and vigorous man.
This nerve-force can be regained, and perfect muscular
power restored to any system by adapting the SPECIA-
LISTS’ NEW SCIENTIFIC MEDICAL METHODS
OF RESTORING VITALITY TO THE ENFEEBLED
FRAME. To secure this strength
Ai> Electric “ INVIGORATOR ”
must be worn, which infuses into the jaded frame a
new current of magnetic electricity, the absence of which
proves the source of many grave nervous disorders. Men
who have not been successful in Life, who continually were
compelled to battle against menacing adversities, have been
cured. Whether their ill-health was due to disorders of
the KIDNEYS, LIVER, BLADDER,
IMPERFECT NERVE FORCE,
INSOMNIA, DYSPEPSIA, MENTAL IMPAIRMENT,
STOMACHIC DISORDERS, or functional derangement
of vital organs, they became strong and healthy men through
taking medical treatment and wearing superior ELECTRIC
“INVIGORATORS.” They are now happy as men can
be in the
Perfection of a Physical Plenitude,
and prove that men were not “made to mourn,” but to
enjoy Life to its fullest and completest measure.
The SPECIALISTS are in possession of testimonies
from some of the greatest professionals known in the world
of art and sport, who thank them in their letters for the
great good done them that
Only a Restored IVlan
CAN APPRECIATE. The “ INVIGORATORS,” mo-
delled upon the plans of the greatest electricians of the age,
are within the reach of all. Those sold at £l. ARE
SPECIALLY RECOMMENDED ; those purchased at
JEIO contain £& worth, of 18-ct. gold. There is no
case of weakness in men which they will not palliate and
cure.
STATUTORY TESTIMONIAL.
■■ IACCnU |U|P||||A|| the Champion Cyclist of New South Wales, is well known to everyone in the States of Australia. He wore 'one of
Iflla uUotrtl iuttluUll) these “ Invigorators,” and he says of this wonderful ELECTRO-MEDICAL treatment:
11 1 suffered from Nervousness for a long time. I was on the point of a constitutional break-up more
than once. The merits of your 1 Invigorator f used by me are beyond question. Your treatment has
restored me to perfect health.” (Signed) 11 J. MEGSON.”
(Mr. Megson can be interviewed upon this wonderful cure. What has been done for him can be done for you. We have hundreds such Testimonies from professional people whom we
have Restored to Health and Happiness.)
Free Advices and Surgical Examinations.
ALL Letters addressed to the SPECIALISTS of the INSTITUTE are replied to punctually.
WHENEVER THE MAIL GOES, correspondence is addressed. No Letter is neglected,
and replies to questions are POSTED BY RETURN MAIL to any intercolonial or inter-
national centre. ALL MEDICINES forwarded from the INSTITUTE to patients resid-
ing beyond N.S. Wales ARE PACKED SECURELY, so that no risks are incurred from breakage.
The system is so perfect that no complaints are ever heard of no i transmission. Advice is given
Free, and special consultations are arranged if considered necessary. __ , _____
In all cases the opinions of the SPECIALISTS ARE GIVEN FREE OF CHARGE. If
anyone is in a critical condition from illness and would like a professional opinion, qualified by
experience and a life-service in the spheres of disease, that opinion will be given readily and freely.
Nerve and BLOOD DISEASES are the SPECIALITIES of the INSTITUTE.
OM
iMIiL
abterjrerra’ifi opmiw&.oK
D? b’oTh' ; personally Ans i.S respsrN :
is/protess'cna! attahmani-js. ,
PHYS!CIA« TO TME
Credentials and Qualifications.
THE PHYSICIAN-IN-CHIEF of the
INSTITUTE’S CONSULTING STAFF
of SPECIALISTS is a man of singular
professional attainment. His qualifications
are unequalled. As will be here seen he holds a
valuable testimony of merit from Sir Dominic
Corrigan, Bart, late Physician to the Queen, with
whom he was at one time associated. He also
holds NINE DIPLOMAS and CERTIFICATES
of QUALIFICATION and REGISTRATION
by the MEDICAL BOARDS OF NEW SOUTH
WALES, VICTORIA, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
ENGLAND and AMERICA, which are daily
open for public inspection. Late honorary
physician to the Homoeopathic Hospital, Mel-
bourne, and British Imperial Army Medical Staff.
A Useful Volume.
♦
fTIHE SPECIALISTS publish every year a revised edition of their medical work,
I “CLINICAL EXPERIENCES.” These valuable works are a feature of an
M . Institute upon which £lOO,OOO has been expended since its introduction to the
Australian Medical World. Each year sees some departure in the publication
of useful medical volumes, for which the public demand is continuous and imperative.
This Medical Book, “CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,” is one of the finest works
published in Australia or recognised in Medical History. It is elegantly bound, artistic-
ally printed, beautifully illustrated, graphically written, and affords the keenest inte-
terest to the student of physiology. Anyone who cares to comprehend the
complex machinery of the human system should purchase one of these magnificent
works and read the 30 pages upon Anatomy, with 20 illustrations showing the osseous,
muscular, and nervous mechanism of the body. Also,
articles upon the Care of the Sick, Bums and Scalds,
Restoring Apparently Drowned, Dropsy, Asthma, to-
gether with a Vocabulary of 1000 medical terms, and a
list of 50 valuable prescriptions, which are invaluable
in every home.
It comprises 550 PAGES of exhaustive analysis
upon general diseases, with 150 MEDICAL ILLUS-
TRATIONS, 35 CHAPTERS OF INSTRUCTIVE
MATTER, and graphically - written articles upon
SNAKE BITE, INSOMNIA, INVALIDS and
TREATMENT, ALCOHOLISM and EFFECTS,
PLAGUE, FEVERS, ELECTRICITY, FRAC-
TURES, GUNSHOT WOUNDS, SUNSTROKE,
CANCER, CONSUMPTION, etc., make it a valu-
able friend to all households in the country, where
medical men are few.
The price of this Magnificent Work is, post-free
to any Australasian address, ONE SHILLING
ONLY, IN STAMPS.
1
3*
CCS
Gene
Dis
REEMAN m
' Llccn'O Medical*
lljflli COWSULTIHt
(ItfAU COITION. ///,*
Iwm
FREEMAN $ WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAI
and SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director Electro-Medical Department.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., L.R.C.S., E., L.M., Physician-in-Chief.
Medicines packed Free from Observation and sent to all parts of Australia.
Letters treated with Professional Secrecy and promptly replied to.


G iven away
To Advertise our
OSTRICH TIPS,
Post 2/6 Free.
3 Black Tips with Ospreys
A Marvel of Cheapness.
WRITE TO-DAY.
A GIFT FOR THE LADIES.
V'..
Graceful and
becoming for Young
or Old.
Ostrich
Tips.
5/-
The Bunch.
Worth 10/6.
TWO VERY SUPERIOR TIPS
with OSPREYS, in Black!
White, or Oream.
Send Postal Notes with Exchange.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Corner Bourke & Swans ton Sts., Melbourne. ’
Mention The Bulletin.
The Maoriland military authorities ave
just killed off a profitable industry. The women
aV' 6 s *-ill have the kharki craze rather
badly, and at social hops, assemblies, and
even first-rate balls, men in kharki are simply
rushed by the girls, especially if the uniform
is worn by a returned cohentingenter and has
a tew dull red spots, which are understood to be
rsoer blood—and most returned cohentingenters’
uniforms have those dull red spots, even if they
come from the warrior’s own nose. So the returned
cohentingenter and the local volunteer turned a
good solid shilling by hiring out their butchering
duds to the amorous youths of the countryside,
drunk on the proceeds. It was at Gore
that the bolt fell. One warrior went in a field-
marshal’s uniform, or something equally brilliant,
and the military authorities in the hall booted him
out, and he was fined next day at the police court,
while the individual who loaned the uniform is
to be eourt-martialled. Now, no man who owns
a uniform will “ lend ” it for any price, for to be
from the service means loss of the
blood-stained clobber. And that means ostracism
by the all ged gentler sex, who used to sit with
him m a, corner and listen in breathless admira-
tion to his story of how the brown spot on the
coat was the gore of seven Boer admirals all
impaled on the bayonet simultaneously.
Concerning a female model, a surgeon
writes to The Bulletin
Once had a conversation with a respectable young
woman, living with her mother, touching her feelings on
first being employed as a model for the art-classes at
Melb. Public Library. Said the girl: “It was this
way. The teacher came to me and asked me to stand for
the Altogether. The idea 1 I was horrified, and would
not hear of it. Then he said I should only see him and
another old man ; and, after a good deal of persuasion, I
consented. On the eventful evening I was conducted to
a private room, where I disrobed. Then, as a ‘ maiden
mit nodings on,’ I ascended four steps to the top of a
pedestal draped in black, and was there posed in an erect
attitude. There was nothing before me but a big
curtain. Suddenly the curtain was dropped, and,
to my utter consternation, I found myself facing
30 young male students. My first impulse was
to fly. Then I reflected that, in order to do that, I
must descend the steps, which would put me in a worse
position than before. So I finally determined to see it
out, making up my mind that the tragedy would never
happen again. My feelings were awful. I felt the per-
spiration just rolling down my backbone. By the time
the class had been dismissed I was a little more self-
possessed, and was persuaded to stand again. With a few
experiences I got quite used to the business, and now I
don’t care a rap. Of course, no one is allowed to laugh
or make any chaffing remark ; and if a girl has confidence
in her figure she soon grows accustomed to imitating a
statue. There’s nothing in it; and the pay is very small
—only half-a-crown an hour.”
e in Infant Feeding.
the
*
Allenburys Foods provide nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers
o t e nfant, and constitute an altogether distinct advance on the mischievous expedient of trying
to make the child’s stomach accomodate itself to a food essentially unsuited to its digestive powers,
arinaceous foods of all kinds are totally unfit for infants under five or six months of age, such foods
ng a P otent cause of digestive troubles, rickets, and many disorders arising from mal-nutrition.
>nb%s
FIRSTS MOUTl^f
*- 5 =»«&W i|
"’"‘"’HfaSwiiwwj
sees
'*>Teilimorrr, Dlnsfh*
a & Hanbotf
M, *n &Ha
3BOS
The “Allenburys” Foods are
c They are in the form off powder and keep perfectly.
Pamphlet on “INFANT FEEDING” (48 pages) free, from
495, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
ALLEN & HANBURYS, Ltd., London, Eng.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to three months.
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From three to six months.
MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From six months and upwards.
Danger ahead I
The engineer
doesn’t see the
broken rail.
There is sure
to be a terri-
ble wreck.
There’s a
wreck
ahead for ■!
m
m
you if you pay no attention to your
weak throat and lungs.
Ayer s
Cherry Pectoral
Weak throats and weak lungs easily
give way. Some extra strain, as a
fresh cold, and you are down with
bronchitis or pneumonia. Better
strengthen these weak places before it
is too late. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
heals these irritable throats, gives tone
to the relaxed membranes, and imparts
strength to the lungs.
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them! Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Ce., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
s EVERT MAN “
SUFFERING from DEBILITY and WEAKNESS should
send for a valuable Pamphlet explaining how all
Nervous and Organic Derangements may be success-
fully treated without stomach medication. The method
is easy and pleasant, and will effect a perfect and per-
manent cure. Sent in a plain sealed envelope free of
charge. E. NORTON, 59 &60 Chancery Lane, London,
cm Eno. Over 30 years’ continuous success. sj
DESPONDENT
a
/•
k
Ucs:
5^
3S?
/
Vi
v<
's
f/i
V/
*m.
m
im,
m
m,
as
%°u
Electricity is the life of the body, and when your system has very little electri-
city it certainly cannot respond to the demands made upon it. Restore the electri-
cal energy, and you restore your vigour. The only way to do this is to pump a
constant vitalising stream of electricity into the weakened human storage bat-
teries until they are able to again show their force, and take up their work. To
do this, you must have an appliance that will carry a continuous and powerful
curi’ent of this unseen force into your body for several hours at a time. Dr
McLaughlin’s Electric Belt is the only appliance to be had which possesses these
important requirements. After your family Physician gives you up, it cures
LAME BACK, INDIGESTION, RHEUMATISM, DYSPEPSIA, ANAEMIA, SCI-
ATICA, assists Rupture, and restores the body to its full and normal vigour. It
is endorsed by thousands.
Dr. McLaughlin's Electric Belt
is made in seven different grades of strength, so that we are able to give any ailment the proper amount of new force.
This is very essential. It would be as logical to try to use one grade and strength for every ailment as to try to
make one suit of clothes fit all men alike. The proper current of elect ricity will cure WITHOUT THE AID OF
DRUGS. A real “Electric” appliance requires no drug assistance. THE ONLY BELT PASSED BY THE CUS-
TOMS DEPARTMENT AS AN “ELECTRIC APPLIANCE.”
When you use our Belt, you don’t need DRUGS at a great additional expense. It is really “Electric” and is patented by the Australian
Government. Belts made to appear exceedingly cheap always have some expensive accessories.
COULD NOT WALK.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co. Jamison Town,
Dear Sirs,— June 6th, /02.
I cannot speak too highly of your Electric Belt. For 17 years I have
suffered from Lame Back and Legs, caused by carrying a heavy weight. For
the last ten years I have been almost a cripple. I have been under several
medical men during the time, but never received any lasting benefit from
their treatment. I got one of your High-grade Belts, and the results have
been marvellous.
My neighbours are astonished at the great improvement in my health.
Some of them want to know what I have done with my walking-stick. I
can attribute this great improvement in myself to nothing else but your
Electric Belt.
You may use this testimonial as you please, for the benefit of all suffer-
ers.—Gratefully yours. CHARLES SHEPHERD.
Mr. JOHN LITTLE, Camperdown, writes to say:—l suffered with
Lumbago for 30 years, and your Belt gave me the only relief I have
had. It has driven my Sciatica from me, and lam heartily thankful.
I will be glad to always recommend it.
JOHN KING, Brisbane, writes:—The Belt I received from you has
given me the greatest satisfaction. It has entirely cured my terrible
lame back, and I feel fresh and invigorated when I get up in the morn-
ings. My friends congratulate me, and I would not part with my Belt.
Other so-called Belts had failed me, but Dr. M'Laughlin's cured
my lame back that had troubled me for years.—A. J. GREENLAND
J.P., Launchley, Uralla, N.S.W.
FREE
BOOK
FREE
TEST
CONSULTATION IS ALWAYS FREE.
If you are suffering from any of the ailments we claim to cure, come in and convince yourself that the BELT is all we
represent it to be. We will be glad to explain every detail of our treatment. Don’t imagine you have to buy just because you
come for an examination. You don’t. Nor you don’t have to pay a consultation fee either.
IF YOU ARE NOT CLOSE ENOUGH TO
CALL, WRITE FOR ONE OF OUR ILLUS-
TRATED FREE BOOKS, GIVING ILLUS-
TRATIONS, PRICES, ETC., AND MANY
LOCAL TESTIMONIALS OF PEOPLE
CURED AFTER THE FAILURE OF MED-
ICINE, WE WILL SEND IT, SEALED
AND POST PAID.
85
KIIMG-ST., SYDNEY.
HOURS : From 9 a.m. to 8.30 p,m.
OUR BELTS ARE NEVER SOLD BY AGENTS OR CHKMTSTS.


Queensland, which brags eternally about
its educational system, spends less per head (viz.,
per pupil) than any other State of the continent,
one excepted. It has no training school for
teachers; it is ruthlessly cutting down its system
of technical education, and it has no university—
and no prospect of one. F. lucational progress
mightn’t assimilate well with syndicatism.
Despite Premier Seddon’s vaunted Im-
perialism there is absolute indifference in Maori-
land re his two favorite projects—an Imperial
Customs Union and the annexation of Fiji.
When a tired House assented to the incorporation
of the Cook Islands, Seddon stood up and started
“Gorsave.” There wasa poor response at first until
the great bass boss cast an enraged scowl at his
staunchest supporters, after which a fairly good
noise was produced. Nathless, a message duly
appeared in the English papers which would lead
anyone to believe that the Bill passed with enthusi-
asm. The designs on Fiji find no response worth
speaking of outside a small Auckland coterie led
by an ambitious lawyer and a handful of trades-
men. As for the Imperial Customs Union, few
Maorilanders seem to understand the question,
and fewer care about it. The absurdity of a
province, which taxes British imports more heavily
than nine-tenths of Britain’s foreign enemies do,
professing to be anxious to give an open door to
British goods hasn’t dawned on Maoriland yet.
DAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be diseoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. 1 don’t say perhaps ; but 1 WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured,
at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Dictated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours. Abgiiesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, 1/lid. per lmx. Prepared by
\] BERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents s ELLIOTT BROS-, Sydney . Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
g een label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
m
\
t
> A Wonderful power is placed at your
disposal in Hypnotism—the power to control
others—to relieve disease—to make friends
—to make money—and gratify your
ambition. You may become a commanding
master of humanity. In fact, there is so much
that »s wonderful to tell you about it that I bav*
written a book for that purpose, it 31
illustrations.
An\one can be a Hyrnotfat It U merely a matter of
knowing how All possess the power—both men and women.
Some p-rsons exercise a light hypnotic influence unconsciously
No doubt you have met such people. They are the kind who
succeed in the world with no apparent effort.
By a knowledge of Hypnotism, bad habit*, nervous disease*,
bad appositions, sleeplessness, and other affliction* may ba
cured - often in a single t reatment Backward or ungovernable
childr/n show marvellous improvement under hypnotic
treatment at the hands of their parents or other*.
1 have taught thousands of hypnotists in America. Hun.
dreds of delighted students in Australia already 1 reach
them through my book The system is very simple. There
is no reason why you should not become as good a Hypao*
tint as 1 am. Satisfaction guaranteed.
Send address in full, together with three stamp*. You
will then receive “The Key to HypWtiflD*” U»
y plain cover. Absolutely Free. /■'
PROFESSOR O. E. HARRIHOTQH,
145 J Collins St, Melbourne.
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
electric
BELTS and
aeelianges
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our J kEED-
TRIO ERA.” Our Electnc
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust healtn.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
what we a"d do I*"** 1 } you send
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street. SYDNEY.
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC
TOOTH
POWDER
IS THE BEST DENTAL
PRESERVATIVE.
Has the Largest Sale of any Dentifrice.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &c.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
TXSIEJ i
SPOONER’S
m-m\
ss: it
TT~\~
•isiiiiS
SPOONERS
'v v vir*v>.
IWTIHT LEATHER BOOTa
glazed kids k
r-=ssiailli!
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and la.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
1 Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
j Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
LOVELY COLORS.
BRILLIANT
GLOSS.
REJECT
IMITATIONS.
HSMI
a
m
.
vv-
«
rs-'s
SPINALIS
OXIDISED
ENAMEL
• •V. raftm!hiiiliiiiiii ii.m mu 11 mu tiiKiMlllllislHsi
mill ■■■111:11 llllll'll III! 11111.. 1111:111111:
111 l lllllillllll.il 111111-II 111 l 11111. •UMjlljlljlllimyllgJM
HftW at UIUIU » Mill 1111 l 111 11. Illlliiljhllimcyw
1 READY FOR USE «|
to. . ... :)!!!!"!!!■
ERFECT
jj'jlliii-ll lllim
PQR USE
iiiiiiiiiii|iiiiiiln •• •••••
NEW CROSS. LONDON,. S’E
-V-Vl.-j. 1 '
/A2£
See that Aspinall’s name
and Medals are stamped
on every Tin.
MANUFACTURED BY
ASPINALL’S ENAMEL, Ltd.. NEW GROSS,
LONDON, ENG.
Dr. Clarkson’s Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
' lg< To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, ereneral collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR _ ,
will brinsr happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is truly wonaermu
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC. „ .
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
CAHIi OK WRITE—
OWL
CUT
RATE
DKXTG STORE,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
oim •
SAVE YOUR
MONEY.
WHERE TO
%
SAVE YOUR
TIME.
PROSPERITY
CAN’T LAST FOR EVER WITHOUT THE
PUBLIC’S CONFIDENCE AND APPRECIATION,
7
‘1
km
EVIDENCE OF WHICH IS DAILY. RE-
CEIVED IN THE FORM OF TESTI-
MONIALS AND GRATEFUL LETTERS
BY
Herr RASSMUSSEW
THE WORLD-FAMED DANISH
HERBALIST & BOTANIST,
PROPRIETOR OF THE
ALFALINE herbal REMEDIES
registered.
A FEW WORDS TO THE UNINITIATED.
PERSONAL AND PERTINENT.— Those who have Dot met Herr Rassmussen, and
,1 • kin Alfaline Herbal Remedies a trial, may find it beneficial to become
r c h ;uaSdwHh g, r g ood»“kwh“rho done in the interL of suffering humanity for
in the beg.nn.ng of the eighties
TT „ „ J hi<s now world-famed Alfaline Herbal Remedies to the Australian public at 517 George
Herr Rastmussen in trod flooded with American importations and proprietaryrcmed.es, manufactured
Street, Sydney. Austra a was.then.flooded witn a J drcsseg . who took the people’s money without
by'^do’ubtfiil o persons^with'’assumed"names mid fictitious addresses, who took the people’s money without
rc y sponsibiu!y! and veryoften without giving them fair value for same.
miby, aiiu vcij » o
HERR RASSMUSSEN BROUGHT ABOUT A REVOLUTION
Uiem afl mdUnl to Sid” 4 toe^eople"
verdict. THE happy result is known to everyone.
over twenty years have passed away, f remedies have ffSrttaWtS
but thS public would have none of them, and they have
disappeared as suddenly as a flash of lightning.
“THE ALFALINE REMEDIES EXCELL ALL OTHERS,
and are well known to be more P°P? lar a th^” s^afiln h publ?c e and e have T becolue 6 famous l throughout the
have retained the goodwill and confidence of the a b ed up for the ir sale at
SSA 2 »*»* -
Boulder City, j^hA^ms«homme^ DGE XH E FOLLOWING: —
The Alfaline Remedies have heldtheirown U,mur • Gold M?dal’, SydneyTand'e" rafsilve?
been awarded the Parisian Aeadaunes Gold Meda • P - Australia •*received many thousands of unsolicited
Remedies have never been
known to fail to cure in a single instance.
ARE THEY NOT WORTH A TRIAL?
evidence of the efficacy of the Alfaline Remedies,
SEND FOR HIS FREE BOOK,
OCsßlb/ b “ •
and read what the experienced have to say, and what the Australian newspapers have to say-the double distilled
extracts from the Press speak for themselves.
A FEW OF THE ALFALINE REMEDIES:
ai it aline VITALITY PILLS never fail to cure Nervous Diseases, Weak Spine,
Tmnbled FatiguedNerves/Despondency, Poor Memory, Debility, Want of Confidence,
restore Vital Strength, and preserve the system against being affected by age more than any
known remedy. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; course, 23/6 posted.
alfaline BLOOD PILLS are a permanent cure for all Chronic, Blood and Skin
Diseases^ how caused, or of how Tong Standing-Blotches, Blood Disorders Gravel,
Diseases’of the Urinary Organs, etc., etc. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; courses, 23/6 posted.
ai cai inf UNIVERSAL PILLS completely cure Wasting Diseases in Women
Poverty Of Blood, Sallow & m p.Lioo, Doll Byes, aud act a, a perfect
Blood and Nerve Tonic. Boxes, 6/- and 12/- ; courses, 23/6.
[)d ana iuuiu , , .
ai cai inc RHEUMATIC PILLS cure Rheumatism, Gout,Sciatica, Lumbago, Ravages
froJßkSlev”;y "matioo in the Joints. Boses, 3/-, 6/, and 12/-, courses, 23,6.
- - - ■ m 11 Oj „L rn pAefi
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS remove all Stomach Troubles Costive-
ness, Indigestion, Flatulence, Heartburn, Wind, Biliousness and Headache. Boxes, 1/-.
GENERAL ALFALINE REMEDIES.
Alfaline Pile Powders cure internal and external Piles, boxes 3/- and 6/- ; Varicocele
Powders boxes 6/-; Blood Capsules or Globulus, 6/-; Fat Reducing Powders, which remove
powders, ooxes n/ , CofQ Cu r e 1/-; Ointment, 1/-; Eucalyptus Oil and
Jumbes°boxes 1/-; Flesh-Producing Powders, 6/-; Complexion Beautifiers remove _ Pimples
and Freckles 3/- and 6/-; Alfaline Embrocation removes all sorts of Muscular Pains, Sti
Joints-eood for Footballers, bottles 1/6 posted ; Worm Tablets, 1/-; Headache Tablets,
Instant Cure, 1/-; Soluble Quinine Pessaries, 5/- Electric Belts, Suspenders, Bandages,
Enemas, Glass Syringes, etc. Circulars with all particulars sent Free.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALITY.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has made special arrangements for attending
personally to his Clients living in the Country, and letters will receive
most careful personal attention. Advice or information sent free and
unobserved. Patrons may rely on skilful, honest and confidential treatmen .
His Remedies will he forwarded to sufferers, packed in plain cover and
unobserved together with Advice and Directions. Letters should he addressed
to Herr Rassmussen’s full name-HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN-and
Registered if containing Money, and may he sent to any of
Herr RflssiTiusscn s Addresses.
Head Office: 547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke Street
BRISBANE—3O9 Queen Street
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney Street
N.Z —9l Lambton Quay, Wellington
W. A—PERTH—4BI Hay Street
KALGOORLIE—Hannan Street
BOULDER ClTY—Piesse Street
FREMANTLE-117 High Street
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION.
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of Alfaline Remediea


Horae elbourne juvenile’s essay on The
* do “® sti ° animal it is a strong and healthy
and 18 U88{ ? to draw Fire-carts, Drays, Waggons
Cai i ts ’ and It used for hunting sonie Horses are’
iMed for plasure others are made to work. A Horse con
f&£ 6 rsan P H r o ty f “W : "util
6 - i* oof ?: A Horse could not do with-
doubt Ev - ery Jl ody has seen a horse no
North Ind Sonflf Am l 3 lu the reat Wilderness of
f,° ra " a b °uth America, they are seen every dav in
tL TT^ Ur °P e> Asia ’ Afr ‘ ca > America, Jnd ius
• lot at’ other’p™ jde. r ’ * Proprietor of a liv ery Stable and
The Bulletin Reciter:
By Eighty (80) Bulletin Bards. With Illustrations by “Hop,” N. Lindsay,
A. J. Fischer, F. Leist, D. H. Souter, and H. McCrae. In handsome cloth,
decorated. Brice, 55.; postage, 4d.
Since the Morant-Handcock business and
the hot time enjoyed in Cape Town by 1700 of
our braves last May, the English Radical rags
have taken to calling the Austral gens of Cohen—
“ Britain’s Bashi-Bazouks.”
It is full time honorary justices were
relieved of the duty of revising N.S.W. jury-lists.
The fever certain M’sL.A. have developed in the
past to have their men made J’sP. was not wholly
unconnected with this element of their duty. An
amending bill throwing the revision on the police
magistrate alone is now getting ready, and will
be a boon to many inland towns.
Beanie’s Bronchitis
:e famous nEAdCEUDY for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing Hoarseness Pain «
coreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure It is most
fortingin allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consmrmfinn fa
Cur e6^B^ " 176 * ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient
beware of coughs i
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OP HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“Orange, N.S.W.
“Dear Sir, —I enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
Of London, England, from which you will glean that
Kour medicine has been a perfect God send to a martyr to
folds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
5e mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion- of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
and. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above:—
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
wived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
jauch interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
•ft the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from,a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
lupplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS* TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“ Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir,—l wish to add my testimony to the won-
lerful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
nonths, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
[was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
idvice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
fours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
Irst dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
im a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
nay depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
vonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY."
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
learne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
ectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
mdoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
he Jifcv. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
tfty-riine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
"I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.— D. M‘DONALD, Trinkev, via
Quirindi, N.S.W."
‘ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medioine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Broehitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford.
Victoria.”
‘‘l have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
• pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
“ * have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria."
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W."
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne." '
“I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effeot. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W."
“ Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria."
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
JwmSn® 1 ? pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
rtKiY I KR. Kniirlrp Now Sonfh Wolno ** a
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Hey wood, Victoria."
J la X e t , rie< |.|,° ts °f medici.se, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody —S
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” •
“I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine
s^?..™i o Say that anl astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.—
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
-JOHN C.
Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
„Li iear c 1 . °!u y °r r Bro " cl :, itia Gore, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—H. HOOD.
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.
HOOD,
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria."
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have Dulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.” P
Points Darnngtord.^ctoWa.^ 11 " 6 1 from yOU waS its effects.-CHAS. WHYBROW. Enoch't
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“The Scientific Australian Office,
~ “ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequenfcl
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Viotorii
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work
mg’ for and singing the praises of Hearn e’s Bronohiti
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
This gentleman, some three years ago, was recoin
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham ao
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was si
marked that he has ever since been continually reoom
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value o
Hearne s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has easel
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people evei
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO-'
Queensland Testimony.
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS
..,, “ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send us 3t
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose oui
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a chile
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quit*
cured by three doses. 8 4
“We are, faithfully yours, •
* THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemista”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
"W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken
with immediate curative effect.
“lam, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertised.”
‘ Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong 1 , Victoria.
branch depot office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel 3562
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
Th I®” ELT,NG & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
1901, Limited.
: OA.PTO, JL.2a.lie> lilawarra, (56 MILES FROM SYDNEY)
SMELTERS
' • AND
REFINERS
SILVER
LEAD
BULLION
I- ■
■MI
MASERS Of
S. Co. of Australia
AND
“ ILLAWARRA”
BRANDS OF
SOFT LEAD.
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
W. L. HOYT, Manager.
, ,_ . ... _ wr n-»si »xaro and Sulphuric Chamber.
ttghest Price mid for GOLD. SILVER, LEO and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, and JEWELLERS' SWEEP
For all information regarding Rates, apply to HEAD OFFICE, DAPTO.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
“‘Benger*s Food*
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
Benger’s Food
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive, and Digestible.
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere
Extracts from P/ivate
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be diffieui
t > find. My wife sound::
the praise of ‘ Benger s
Food’ everywhere.”
“If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


There is Only One
1
OF
Jv.
(H
GONSTIrATfOM
MAH* UAL.
NOH*nt MIM
KIDNEYS. LIVE* MB BOWELS.
K KMST •*>«*MB »NO OQLO
m 6« MLi. LONDDN «. Q»
PRICE t*
California
Sprup offifls, j
But there are bad imitations and I
cheap substitutes in plenty. \
The Original and Genuine, now ;
known throughout the English- i
speaking world as
“Hatore’sPleasantLaxatlTe”
Is the one perfect
STRENGTHENING laxative.
CLEANSING THE SYSTEM EFFECTUALLY,
DISPELLING COLDS AND HEADACHES,
PREVENTING FEVERS,
OVERCOMING HABITUAL CONSTIPATION
| PERMANENTLY.
j, Its freedom from every objec-
tionable substance, and acting on
the kidneys, liver and bowels,
gently yet promptly, without weak-
ening or irritating them, make
it the ideal laxative. In order to
get its beneficial effects, ask for
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF
FIGS, and look for the name
printed on the front of the package.
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP COMPANY
Of all Chemists, ts. r.jd. and is. 9d. Depot, 32 SNOW HILL, LONDON. E.C.
Australian Branch: 7 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY
■
0
mm
m
m
Ilff
I
■
liM»
MM
I
“Like a Girl in a Book!"
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I wanted to go to, the -bush as a governess. I had
never known any girls who had gone, but had
often read about them. So for a week I carefully
read the “Professions and Trades” column in
S.M. Herald. At last I fOlihd the desired adver-
tisement asking for a young lady who could teach
English, French, music, singing, dancing, draw-
ing, and I determined to call on “Squatter’s
Wife ” immediately.
I put on a clean print frock, with a high linen
collar and a dark tie. The collar and the tie both
belonged' to my brother, arid inade me look very
plain, but I felt they gave me a governess-like
appearance.
When I arrived at the Hdlise inhere the “Squat-
ter’s Wife ” was staying I had to wait nearly an
hour before she could see tile. I believe she was
having breakfast. I filled in the time with
arranging what I should say to her.
Then the door opened, and a tall, grey woman
came into the room. She ttiiffllt have passed for
the Grey Lady, for she waS an entire study in
that color. Eyes, hair, and tltess were all of the
same shade, and When she spoke I felt that the
greyness had got into her very sbul. She looked
down at me, at my neck, my hands, my feet. All
over me. Then she said, “No, you are too
young.” The voice was the Saddest that I had
ever heard, and in an instant I felt that it must be
my mission in life to btin# the joy-note into it.
So I stood up and rapidly explained that I was
older than I looked, and that 1 would like to be
her children’s governess, and to try to bring the
sunlight back into her life. She seemed quite sur-
prised when I said that, and looked at me again.
I wished I had not worn my brother’s collar, for
I felt that this woman would not approve of any-
thing that was not soft and womanly. Then she
asked me a lot of questions, and laughed twice at
my answers.
At the end of an hour she told me that I would
suit her, and that she would give me twenty
pounds per anpuni. I forgot to think what “per
annum” meant, and only thought of the good
sound twenty pounds had !
She said she would pay toy expenses second-
class one way, if I stayed for Six months—if not, I
must pay them both ways myself. As I felt it
would be ridiculous to stay less than that time, if
I was going «o far away, I gladly agreed to the
terms. '
Then we parted, with the arrangement that I
would leave Sydney the following week.
When I went home, I gave my sisters a vivid
description of the Grey Lady, and brought an
envious light into their eyes when I said I felt I
had found my mission in life,.
The days went by quickly, and when, at
last, all the family stood on the railway-station to
see me off, I was half-dazed with excitement.
I got into a ladies’ carriage that was filled with
fat women, with .paper bags. But that did not
matter. I was going to the bush as a governess !
After the train started* I noticed there was
another girl in the carriage besides myself. She
looked moA. and I wondered what she was going
to be! ■- ■ .
It was very hot, and, as a’.few drops of rain were
seen on. one of the windows* they were all closed
at once. The carriage Was Stifling, and the fat
women were settling themselves for the night.
Some of them took their hair off and their teeth
out. I looked at the other girl, and we smiled at
one another. After that* we began to talk in
low voices. She was also going to be a governess,
and had just left school. She told me she could
teach drawn-thread, ribbon-work, and a lot of
other fancy-work that I had never heard of.
She said she had a black velvet ev.ening-gown,
made very long, with elbow-sleeves, and that she
intended wearing yellow roses—real ones, of
course—with it. She asked me if I thought she
would have to dress for dinner ! I wasn’t sure,
but fancied she would. Governesses in books
generally wore black gowns, just a little low at
the neck, with a rose nestling amongst the black
net, and another in the hair.
I wished I had brought a black velvet, instead
of my white book-mUslin. It seemed so simple
now ! My sisters had told toe to always wear on
the left shoulder a cluster of scarlet berries off the
sweet-briar bush; they Said that they knew I
could always get plenty of them on a station. The
other girl said that they would look very sweet,
and that she wouldn't mind wearing them some-
times herself for a change,
We talked on through the night; arranged how
we would meet in OUr long lonely rides and tell
one another our Experiences. Then, as the grey
dawn was breaking* I said good-bye to her, and
stepped out on to the little platform in the
drizzling rain. In the half-light I saw a man
peering about for someone, and I went to him and
asked if he was looking for me. He said no, that
he had cotoe to meet Mrs. Jones’s new governess.
I told him that I was she, and he whistled softly
as he looked me.
After he had got my luggage—l had a good deal,
for I had brought everything I possessed in the
world ; I had been advised to do so, for one in-
variably wanted the very thing that had been left
behind—W6 got into a buggy and drove to a funny-
looking house. The man told me that it was an
hotel, and that I was to breakfast there and rest
till 9 o’clock, when he would call forme to drive
me out to Yowbah Station.
I felt Very like a girl in a book as I went into
that place and heard the man tell a sleepy-looking
girl to get me some tea and to see that I had
everything I wanted. Then he left, and I was
shovfrn into a dark room, where I had my tea, and
Went to deep on the sofa.
Whon-i woke up I heard the rain pouring down,
.artd wondered if the man would think it too wet
to come for toe.
Just theh the girl put her head in and said that
“the gentleman” was in the parlor. He was
{lulling up the blinds as I went in, and I saw his
ace clearly for the first time. He was very
brown, and had no beard—at which I was sur-
prised ; and when he asked me if I was rested' I
noticed that his teeth were beautiful. He then
explained that he was a nephew of Mrs. Jones,
and that she had asked him to meet me. I said
that I supposed we could not start until the rain
stopped. He laughed, and said he was afraid there
was no chance of it doing that for a week. He
wrapped me up in a huge oilskin coat, put an oil-
skin cap on my head that tied under my chin, and
lifted me into the buggy again. And we drove
away through the blinding toin into the bush.
It was the strangest drive I ever had, with
the rain beating in my face —the wind was too
strong to put an umbrella up—and the strange man
at my side.
After we had gone a few miles he began to
talk. He asked- mb questions, and when 1 told
him that I had never been away from home
before, and had never been a governess, he
whistled again. I told him that I felt sure that I
would like it, only somehow the bush looked
different from what I had expected. He said it
was a bad day to see it for the-first time. lhen
he told me. that he couldn’t get over the idea of
me being the new governess. I was frightened at
that, and asked him if he thought.that I didn t
seem clever enough to do the work, hie said it
wasn’t that, but somehow I was quite different from
the governesses that they’d had at Yowbah
station before. Hold him that I was much older
than I looked' -1 would, be nineteen next birth-
day—and that I could be very stript. He laughed
and did fret- say &ny more for a lohg time. _
It was nearly 3 o’clock when he-told me that we
would bo at v YoWbah in about five minutes. I
was glad, for I was very tired and hungry. Just
then I saw a white cottage with a verandah round
it away over in a paddock. I asked the man who
lived there, and he said that was Yowbah.
“ But, ” I gasped, “ that isn’t a station, surely ?
He assured me it was, and just then I saw a
woman come to the door and I recognised my
Grey Eady ! - *
The man helped me out and I stumbled up to
the woman. She asked me if I was wet, and told
a long legged girl who was staring at.we from the
passage to show me my room. I got out of my
soaking oilskins and followed the girl into a tiny
room with a very low ceiling.-. The first thing I.
noticed was that the bed was not made, and the
sight made ine feel homesick. The room .was so
small I could scarcely turn round. There was
nothing on the floor, nothing on the window but
a bit of brown paper to fill up a hole.'
The girl stood and watched me as I washed my
face, and I kept it buried purposely for a long
time in the towel, so that khe would not see that
my eyes were wet. Then I told her that I was
ready, and she took me to the dining-room. The
cloth was on the table, and ‘there was cold mutton
and stewed plums for dinner.
The man was standing talking to the Grey Lady,
and he smiled at me as I came in. I tried to eat
some mutton, but it nearly choked me. The Grey
Lady suggested that I should have some plums.
There was no cream, no milk. I ate them because
I dared not refuse. And outside the rain was
pouring down and the wind was moaning.
I heard the man tell the Grey Lady that he
could not stay the night, but must get back at
once. She went out of the room for a minute, and
I dropped my spoon on the floor, put 1 my head
down and sobbed. The man said “ Ob, little girl,
don’t do that. You must not break down now.
“ I can’t stay in this lonely place by myself. . . .
I want to go home ! ” I sobbed.
“ You’ll soon get used to it, and my aunt isn t
such a bad sort when you know her, but for
Heaven’s sake don’t.let her see you cry. She hates
anything like that.” . And he gave my arm a little
shake. I gulped back the tears, and dried my
eyes, and wished that I "were dead.
Then the Grey Lady came back and the man
went. , , - .
Two tall, thin girls, with long dresses and their
hair up, peeped in at the window, and the mother
told me they were two of my pupils. She said I
might sit on the verandah with them until tea-
time. I was longing to go to my room and lie
down, but was too frightened to say so.
So we three sat on an iron seat and looked*.out
on the grey, soaking paddocks.
The girls were very quiet. They asked me it 1
was engaged, and if I bad any bracelets, and when
I said no to both questions they seemed to quite
lose all interest in me.
The next day-was Saturday, and the Grey Lady
said we would not start school until Monday, but
she wished to have a talk with me in the school-
room. So I followed her there and she shut the
door. She said she had taken a great fancy to
me —I was so bright—so amiable ! I opened my
eyes very wide and wondered what she was going
to do to me. Then she said that her other three
daughters would return home that afternoon, and,
as they were such intelligent girls, she knew I
would be delighted, to teach them witli the other
two. I could n’t speak. Me witli five pupils ! It
was funny! And she called me “Dear!” and
said I was a little treasure. She also told me that
her nephew was a great flirt, and that he was
engaged to be married to a very rich squatter’s
daughter. . . , „ „ . .
The next day—still raining—we all, hve girls,
Grey Lady, squatter and I, packed in a huge
waggonette and went to church. It was about
three miles away in a tiny village.
At the church door I was introduced to the
clergyman—he had a cross eye—who asked me if
I was playing the organ that service. I laughed
and said I had never touched an organ in my life.
He looked surprised, and -I thought Mrs. Jones
did not seem pleased.- There was no music that
day! . .
Coming home I was told that it- was the custom
for the governess at Yowbah to play the organ
and lead the choir.
So for a week, every afternoon after school, 1
walked —with three of the girls—over to that
quaint little church to find out the ways and
means of playing a bush organ. -
When the next Sunday came and I sat m front
of about 40 people and pulled out the necessary
stops, I could scarcely breathe for nervousness.
As it had been suggested to me that a voluntary
would be required, I started, with trembling
fingers, toplayoneof the “Songs without Words.”
It was the 19th and I only knew three lines on
the organ. I played them once softly, played
them three times, four times, five times, six times
■_ wou ld the clergyman never come ? —I dared not
stop for fear of the awful silence that is so
unnerving in a small building. I played those
lines 20 times, until at last I was so perfect in
them that they sounded like a jubilee march.
Then, as 1 was growing reckless, the clergyman
came.
The days went by. My five pupils—two or
whom were older than I—were harmless enough,
but very stupid.
On very rare occasions visitors came, but they
were very few and far between.
Then the autumn set in.
Rolls of flannel were produced, and I was told
that it was time for me to start the girls’ winter
clothes ! Now, this was the hardest thing that I
had yet been asked to do. I had been told many
times that I was the greatest comfort that Yowbah
had ever had in the way of governesses. And I
was beginning to understand why.
I had never made clothes for anyone in my life.
Dare I tell the ,Grey Lady ? She had a queer way
of looking unconscious, as though stone-deaf, if I
ever told her anything like that.
So I held my tongue, and started on a frock for
Liz. Liz Was 6ft., and luould have her frocks
made with revers!
I can’t speak calmly yet of that fearful frock.
The tnemory of it stiil hurts, for I had to unpick
it —every bit of it—before the Grey Lady’s eyes.
I remembered how I had told my sisters that I
had'foutid my Mission in Life. If they could have
seen me sitting at night over that hateful frock,
u ndoing all that I had so fearfully done, would
they have laughed—or cried ?
• * * *
I had never seen my companion of the train-
journey, but had been told that the people she
was with were very common, and only had a small
selection. And she had wondered if she would
Dress for Dinner ! I wondered if the black velvet
had ever been worn —my white book muslin still
lay in my trunk, and was likely to do so till I
went back to Sydney. .
I stayed at Yowbah for six months, and so
earned my first ten pounds, two of which went
in paying for my return-ticket.
Eight pounds for teaching five girls English,
French, to play the piano, to sing, to dance; for
playing a bush organ and leading the choir; for
making five girls’ underclothing, and unmaking
one girl’s frock. Eight pounds for learning by
experience what it meant to be “Like a Girl in
Book.”
A.M
“ Westinghouse ” : Chinese luck is pro-
verbial, and the expression “must have killed a
Chinaman ” has acquired much significance in
this district, since, about six weeks ago, a Chow
was killed by a train near Dunedin. Since then
we have had no fewer than seven railway acci
dents —more or less serious—on Dunedin-Oamari
section. The number of accidents on the section
for the previous two years was but two.


(6
I SAID
V
v
y
cr
Y
c
<r
•.Ofi'
W\\v
C
iOAP
m
r;
n
|c4’q}cf l
G 5
ssa
And I got Doan's.” “I said Doan’s
You re a younger man than lam ; let me give you some advice. When
a man asks you for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, sell them to him without
any talk. He knows what he wants. I . know what I want. I have used
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for years, and I know all about them. I don’t
know anything about yours. I want Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and I
want to see Jas. Doan’s signature on the wrapper. That signature is a guaran-
tee of the genuineness of the medicine.
“The last time I was here you tried to sell me something else when I
asked for Doan’s pills ; now you are trying it again. I tell you plainly I won’t
have your substitute. I asked for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and
that s exactly what I mean to have ! ”
DOAN’S
Backache Kidney Pills.
The Kidneys are the most important organs of the body,
because they filter the blood.
When they are sick, the whole body is sick.
Dizziness, pains in the back, neuralgia, rheumatism, tired,
all gone feeling, dropsy, diabetes, bad blood, inflammation of the
bladder, sleeplessness, nervousness, headaches, etc., come from
the impurities of the blood which the kidneys should have taken
out. Good health can only be obtained when these very impor-
tant organs are well. The blood must be fresh, clean and pure
with not a taint of poison in it.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills heal the kidneys and help them
to work naturally and to remove absolutely all disease-breeding
impurities. They cure disease by curing the kidneys.
Thousands of Sydney people know this now.
Here is one of them
Farrier-Sergeant Grace, Ist Regiment of Australian Bushmen of N.S.W., who
addresses his letter “ Klip Drift,” March Ist, 1901, writes •
Dear Sirs,—l am very pleased to state that we have your famous Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills in the midst of our regiment., I was very much troubled in the early part
of the campaign with pains all over me, especially in the back. You see, X was always
trekking about in bad weather, and sleeping on the damp ground, and one would
want an iron constitution to withstand the inroads on one’s system. Many mornings
I have tried to get up, but failed until I obtained assistance. My agony was often so
bad that I have felt inclined to rush into the zone of the enemy’s fire and put an end
to my sufferings. All the military doctors who treated me failed to do me any good.
One day a comrade gave me three boxes of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and told
me to try them. The first box eased me greatly, and the third box cured me.
Many of my comrades used them, and they swear by this wonderful medicine.
Indeed this testimony expresses their gratitude to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills as
much as it does mine. You may use this in any way you like. Anybody wishing to v„
investigate may do so at my residence, 18 Glebe-street, Glebe, Sydney.”
Por Sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box
(six boxes, 15s. 3d.) or will be posted on receipt of price by
Poster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DUAN’S.
The Root of it all.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now this js the cry of the "People - who ; clamor of
Hardship and-Wrong:
“ Save us . the trouble. of thinking— let us not
ponder for long! ; ; •o: '
Let us be fat and be merry—let us be"careless and
glad, 1 i ■
Labor of brain is a burden that maketh the merry
one mad.
‘ Give us a despot to rule us—Minister, Kaiser,
or Czar.
Moulding the State is a trouble—leave us the laws
as they are !
True we may hate the Oppressor, and call him
accursed as Cain,
But worse do we hate we should labor with breed-
ing of thought in the brain.
“ Give us a cut-and-dried system—lend us a code
and a creed ! ,
Save us the trouble of saving the souls of a weari-
ful breed !
Lend us a ladder to lift us—grant us a lamp and a
guide,
And bear us, at peace and recumbent, up where
the Seraphim bide.
“ Save us the trouble of flunking—save us the
doing of deed—
Hath He not fashioned us nidd’ring, backward
and slothful at need ?
Therefore a fetish we bow to, therefore a despot
we crave,
Therefore we fondle our fetters and creep to an
honorless grave.
“Let us be fat and be merry—let us be vacant and
glad,
Labor of brain is a burden that maketh the merry
one mad.
True, we may murmur a moment, and curse at the
King in the car,
But, rather than think and be doing, oh, let us have
things as they are / ”
Q.
P.L.
“Out of the Mouths of Babes.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sylvia was deliciously happy. The lane had
been long, but she was in sight of the turning at
last, and could even see a little bit of the happy
land beyond. For weary years she had been
plodding along that dreary thoroughfare, oft-
times footsore and sick at heart. But the weari-
ness was past, and now she was to reap her
reward, for he was coming ! He was the end of
the lane, even as he was the end and aim of every-
thing as far as Sylvia’s loving heart was concerned.
So sister Margaret and everyone else in her little
world said, therefore it must have been true; but
even they would now be forced to own that the
waiting had not been in vain.
How proud and happy she was, and what a
tangle her thoughts were in! What would he
say first, and how would he look, and would he
think her much changed or (and she hesitated)
o&Z-looking ? Crossing the room, she looked
anxiously at her reflection in the foggy mirror
over the fireplace. Since the days of her “ teens ”
she had never analysed her face so closely, for
vanity hactnever been her weakness, blit now, not
a line escaped her, and she was far too-honest to
blind herself to the fact that she was beginning to
show the wear and tear of Time. . Her patient,
tired eyes had a multitude of little marks round
them, and that long line—she had almost said
wrinkle— could that be any relation to the little
dimple that used to lurk in her cheek, ready to
dance forth at every smile? And her chin that
had once threatened to become double, had
become sharp instead. She saw, with a shock,
that there was a certain faded look about her alto-
f ether, that even-the dim, old glass could not be
lamed for. Indeed, if it had not been for its
kindly mistiness she would have looked more
faded jstill, and she knew it. She was much too
human not to give a sigh for her vanished youth,
but much _ too simple to attempt to keep awful,
uninteresting middle'-age'at bay, and would have
thought it almost a sin. She just accepted it, and
was very sorry, more for her belated lover’s sake
than ljer own.
It was fortunate that he would not See her in
the cruel sunlight first, thought Sylvia—not that
he would weigh her shortcomings against her. He
was too generous ; and with childlike faith she felt
had she been quite ugly he would still think her
beautiful. Did he not love her ? Still, she Wanted
to look as much as possible like the Sylvia he left
so many years ago ; and she sighed again 'as she
brushed her still pretty hair behind her ears and
straightened the uncompromising collar that she
wore round her throat, calling attention to its
thin outlines; and mentally reviewed the simple
dress with its fluffy edgings that she had worn
that last evening when he said good-bye. Bessie,
her niece, who was laughing and talking on the
Verandah, was wearing just such a one to-day, but
Bessie was seventeen, and she was thirty-five!
Did she look it ? Again she anxiously consulted
the friendly glass, and this time persuaded her-
self that she hardly looked twenty-five, certainly
not thirty—her cheeks were, for the time being,
almost as pink as Bessie’s own, and her eyes
almost sparkled; certainly happiness was most
becoming. Sylvia laughed nervously. She, who
was always so unruffled and whom people
called sedate, was in a flutter of excite-
ment, and she tried to force herself into some-
thing like her usual repose by reading “The
Percy Anecdotes ” as a soothing dose, but she
could not interest herself in anything but her own
happy prospects; and presently the book slipped
from'her fingers to the floor.
Looking at the clock for the hundredth time,
she was startled to find it so late, and was struck:
by an awful thought. Perhaps he wouldn’t come,
after all—it was so long ago, and he might have
forgotten. He had been away in the world and
might not have kept bright the memory of
those blissful months, as she had done,
she who had stayed at home, with only
that one vivid patch of green in her life
of drab to think of. Could he forget? Surely
not! Had she not prayed for him for years, and
bravely defended him from the sneers of Margaret
when she persisted in prophesying that he was
“married and settled-down long ago.” But
Sylvia had never doubted him, had believed in
him from the first, and now put away a 3 unworthy
a,ny fear.as-to his return. Return he would, and
as teue as herself. ■ T . ■ • .
The>6ld-fasHlohed room,' with low. ceiling and
scanty ventilation, oppressed her until she felt
taint and dizzy, and, going to the window, quietly
pushed it open. The little draught of air and the
pungent scent of ; the. carnations revived her, and
thee ev.qry-day-sounds,' the hum of insects, and
careless chatter of voices outside, calmed her con-
siderably.,, E ven the', parrot, chattering monoto-
no-JfTln - stable, helped to steady her nerves.
-heeling much better, she took up her position
in one-corner of the old sofa, the springs of which
had long since succumbed to the weight of a suc-
cession of lovers, many of whom , had run the
course of true love smoothly, frorn start to finish,
while she had been waiting patiently on the
brink. He and she had helped to take the spirit
out of that ill-used piece of furniture. She had a
tender feeling for it, and blushed to think she
might, m the near future, sometimes dispute its
possession with Bessie, who seemed to think she
was the only one who could possiblybe enthroned
there, with Love to whisper in her ear. And
then Aunt Sylvia blushed again to think she oould
put herself into competition with that chit,
through the open window Bessie’s assured
tones were heard, and s.he was talking lightly,
slightingly even, of the man Sylvia had wor-
shipped and'held sacred for almost half a life-
time :
''Aunt’s old sweetheart is expected to-day,
Martha,’ said Bessie; “He’s been away ages,
making money and getting dried-up and shrivelled,
like the snake-skin in Jack’s collection.”
How sweet! ” sighed Martha, who was noth-
ing if not sentimental—“ Is lie the one, coming
back to his first love ? ”
Ihe listener’s heart was gladdened—others
believed in him, too, then ! He was coming home
to his first love ! But, then, Bessie again : “He
may be her Ideal, though what even she can see to
like in a dried-up stick of a man like that I’m sun
•* “ on know—Jack says he looked over-cooked
when he saw him two years ago. Of course that’s
only his vulgar way of describing aunt’s old boy.
He s so conceited, you know, and thinks everyone
a scarecrow unless they’re as red and beefy as he
is himself.” (Sylvia shuddered.) .“Still he can’t
be handsome at his age. Besides, ma says he
won t have any eyes for aunt when he does come.
He won’t be in love with her now. She’s quite an
and not as pretty as ma is.”
But she’s still passable,” answered Martha,
who was leniently disposed towards the woman
whom hope deferred had aged more than actual
years, “and isn’t he old too, much older than
she ? ”
Oh, that’s of no account at all. If a man is
well-tailored’his age goes for nothing,’’said Bessie
impatiently, “and men never come back to their
first love nowadays—it’s out of date. If a girl’s
m’.sk W as h goes she should get another, never
mind how, as long as she does. For if you don’t
marry, the younger generation looks down on you,
and your family think you’ve disgraced them.
Believe, me, Martha, constancy is at a discount
now-a-days; it’s not valued as much as the
novelettes would have us believe. You’ll see,
when Aunt’s lover comes he’ll be the same as the
rest of them, and overlook her.”
Sylyia looked spellbound, and listened against
her will to her niece’s sweeping opinions conoern-
***!? nian - As in a dream she heard her clatter on.
Most likely he will be snapped up by one of us
younger ones, and if I am the lucky girl I’ll say
yes ’ and be thankful, even if he is as withered
as this peanut, because he is so rich. Ma says
money is everything. You can live quite com-
fortably without love, but you might as well be
dead; as-be poor. As for an old maid like Aunt',
she has no chance. v , ~
An icy hand clutched the old maid’s heart/ Slip
was grey as ashes, and in her eyes happiness had
given place to dull despair. Hertfiopes and her
love were humbled to the dust by the careless,
heartless chatter of these young, creatures glorying
m the possession of youth. For the first time she
saw herself with their merciless eyes—and hope-
lessness made her look more than her age. And
when, a few minutes later, and before she had
time to pull herself together, her visitor entered
the room, she felt that she fitted the part. The
T? aif^a mantle had indeed fallen on her
shoulders. Her heart broke when she saw that he
saw it too—saw in her nothing but a faded, em-
barrassed woman, standing limply before him in
dull, dejected silence.
MARY S.
This is how the picturesque recent casting-
out of Daniel O’Connor, M.L.A., is drearily
described in the “Votes and Proceedings” of
N.S.W. Assembly:
Disorder.— The hop. member for Sydney-Phillip division
having'Jrequently disregarded Mr. Speaker’s ruling,, that
ms remarks were irrelevant, was, by direction of Mr
Speaker, removed from the Chamber by the Sergeant-at-
Arms. .
“Votes and Proceedings ” is a dry .publicatibn-
dry as the dust of old Egyptian dynasties, or as
the bones of the Carthaginian aristocracy. Yet
what a saleable work it could be made if it were
illustrated by capable artists with a disregard of
facts, and had corset-advertisements on the spare
space! The hon. and irrelevant member defying
the Speaker with his beard flying in all directions!
The -Speaker threatening to dot the irrelevant
member with the mace ! The Sergeant getting
his coat off to shift, the member ! The Sergeant
trying to lift the irrelevant member and remove
him ! The Sergeant reporting to the House that the
irrelevant member was too globular and he couldn’t
get a firm hold of him ! The Sergeant reporting
to the House later on that he had tried to haul
the member out by the collar, and the collar had
bust, *and that he had tried to shove the member
and he wouldn’t shove worth a copper ! The
O Sullivan putting a sum on the Loan Estimates
to pay for the removal of the disorderly member
as a permanent and reproductive work 1 And
then, immediately after, an advt. setting forth
that Bildad’s liver-pills remove all obstructions,
and a tonic-advt., stating that if the Sergeant had
only drunk two kegs of Dodblaster’s Ciant Reno-
vator he.could have removed the whole Opposition
with one' hand!
“Pankaroo ” tells of John’s narrow
■escape:—
Cycling down Sydney Road (Melb.), t’other morning
about 5 o’clock, suddenly espied, in the middle of the
tram-track, a vegetable John suspended by a rope around
his neck from the push-bar of his two-wheeled truck, toes
just touching the ground and face the color of watered
ink. Thought at- first it was a novel case of suicide
but further inquiry showed that it was pure accident’
John had started for market with a load weighing nearly
half a ton, and had hitched himself to the cart by a rope
The wheel caught and skidded in a tram-rail, which caused
the load of vegetables to lose balance and slip to
the rear, and up John had to go. Wrigglinn- to get
himself free the loop of the rope got around his throat
and the rest was only a matter of time. Upon being re-
leased, John cursed slowly and effectively in Celestial
language for half a minute or so, then philosophically
re-trimmed his cargo and set off town wards


We All Use It
Keep Medicine on Hand. Don’t Wait till Sickness Comes.
Treat the Disease Early and Cure Promptly. Keep Weil.
Mr. Wm. Allen, Police Constable of North Carlton, Victoria, sends a photo-
graph of bis family and says: .
“ For many years we have never been without Ayer’s Sarsaparilla in 0
house. When any of us are feeling poorly, just a few doses will make us all
right. My wife says it is a grand medicine for children, especially when t ey
are growing fast. She finds it of great benefit, herself, when she gets tired
and worn out from overwork. The same
medicine cured me once of a severe
liver complaint, pain through the kid-
neys, and impure blood.”
‘
\\)
r.’k
'/'jfL
% )k
*>
Mr. Allen should certainly be proud of bis family. And he shows good
judgment in keeping Ayer’s Sarsaparilla always in the house. He knows it
gives bright eyes to the children, makes them have a clear and smooth skin,
brings good color to the cheeks and lips, and gives them the hearty appetite so
necessary to a substantial growth and development.
Don’t make the mistake of experimenting with some other Sarsaparilla.
All other Sarsaparillas are sold because they are said to be like Ayer’s.
AYER’S § arsaparilla
The Greatest Family Medicine the World Has Ever Known
331
igm
.JM
.Sm
J)
udSl
4
o.
ly
tea
s?»te=
Sate;
MSS
KJ
tea
M
0
SUSP
si
II
WLJ
i&J&i-
Mi)
SRte!
JS
Mi
.VS®
■
27
TEARS’ SUCCESS
AS
the UNIVERSAL REMEDY fob
Goughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping'
Gough, Hoarseness, &c.
1
HAS MADE
fung Tonic
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY TO EVEBYBODY.
Important Notice:
i SUBSTITUTION. —There a/re so many imitations
k of this successful, and therefore popular, remedy that
ff ' ft i s 0 f the utmost importance you should use the
word “ OWBRIDGE ’ ’ when buying Lung Tonic,
and TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
Prepared by
w. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold everywhere in bottles, at Is. 14d.
28. 9d., 4s. 6d., & 11s-, by all
Colonial Medicine Vendors.
COPYRIGHT.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST—SUPPER.
THE ONLY WAY
TO BE CURED of Weakening and Debilitating Diseases
is to obtain the PROPER REMEDIES. We have the
REMEDY that will CURE YOU. So CONFIDENT are
we of this, that we will send a trial course I Ui)
CHARGE and abide by the result. Send your symptoms
and prove our statement. Address — Botanic Institute
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300 pages
price, 4s. 6d.; postage, 6d.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS*.
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
r
<L
the remedy for the people.
recommended by friends to
friends
not pushed by doubtful methods.
tßgnaßmmmaMammuummmßHßßSßssamsmammMm
deserving of their popularity.
now enjoying a greater success
than ever.
still worth a guinea a box.
1
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
The Langston Regenerator
WILL CURE
YOU
Its effects are almost instantaneous and the good results go
on increasing from day to day.
Health, Vigor, Strength
for all who
desire it.
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, permanently located in
Melbourne since 1886, originator of the Regenerator treatment, has so
'perfected his method that it has revolutionised the art of Healing,
and it can almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable
cases.
Are You a Sufferer
from bad health in
any of its many forms?
Do you feel nervous, fretful, timid and lack the power of will and
action ? Are you subject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a
disordered condition ? Do you feel weak, nervous and generally debilitated? If so, do not fail to have the
Doctor diagnose your case. Send at once for full information and question blanks.
Seels, tlie Triitb., it; costs IKTotlaing!
All communications are considered sacredly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng., c o r. Russell & Collins Sts., Melbourne
l$H MOSS
The besf remedy-
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA.
Ask for Banning ton's
and seetkatyou get it


FOR__-^
WATERPROOF COATS
RUBBER BOOTS
«• GOLOSHES
PERDRIAU and COMPANY,
(between Bond & Hunter Streets) 270 GCOrgC StfCOty SydflGy I
60
T EARS dyeing
FOR THE LADIES.
"^ r_ & GO.
DYERS & CLEANERS, ’
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
,attended to.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
32 & 34
braet* SYDNEY.
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send for Cat>
REPRESENTED
IN
4 USTRALIA
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.,
SYDNEY.
meibournf.
PERTH
oi
COOLGARDIE.
STOCKS
EP BRANDING LI
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s back as long as required. It will NOT injure the wool. It will dissolve out under
the ordinary scouring process. >
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
FEGTOII, UMIIIE $ CO., OIECIOUROE.
BLACK , IlEJ), and BLUE (in 8-gallon Cases) :•
PRICE IN MELBOURNE 4/. pe r Gallon.
„ SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.) .. .. .. „
u BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.) „ .. „
„ HOBAiiT (Wm. Crosby & Co.) .. .. .. /_ „
'.'vS
-- 1
Portable Drills, Radial Drills, Drill Presses, Lathes, Planing
Machines, Slotting Machines, Punch and Shears, Steam
Hammers, Pipe Screwing Machines, Metal Saws, etc., etc.
WOOD WORKING MACHINERY.
Ingersoll-Sergeant Rock Brills and Air Compressors} Knowles Pumps, Gates
Rockbreakers, Roger Rolls, Vertical and Horizontal Engines and Boilers of
all kinds, Engineers’ Fittings and Mine and Mill Supplies.
WRITE FOP PR I CCS AND PARTICULARS.
60 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
533 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Fremont Street
San Francisco.
flip
Bushman
Harry Morani
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
and Buccaneer
By PRANK RBNAR.
Price 1/1
Post
Free.
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO.,
SYDNEY.^
I. P. GREGORy S CO.
Machinery Merchants,
Melbourne & Sydney.
HAVE IN STOOK-
Blake's Steam Pumps.
Fays Woodworking Machinery.
Mundy’s Hoisting Engines-
Empire Co.’s Laundry Machinery-
American “All Steel” Pulleys-
Harris ‘‘ Champion ” Lubricating Oils.
Mason Reducing Valves-
Ludlow Sluice Valves-
Korting’s Injectors and Ejectors-
Tanite Emery Wheels.
The pa [ubrican! Co., Sooth Shields, Eng.
A REALLY SPLENDID TOOL. WON’T LOCK ON THE PIPE.
10in„ ss. 9d. ; 18in., 10s. ; 24in., 15s. ; 36in., 325. 6d. Easily Adjusted.
HARDWARE 3E3LO-0-SE3S or
N. GUTHRIOCE, Ltd.,
71 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne)
Telephone No. 10h8.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Bails
[Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
s-'lfi'iy
Jj'OTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS,
WTHPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Latest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
