

McEWAN’S ale.
GAELIC WHISKY.
BEAVER STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
m
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity-”
The Lancet.
R. Gr. WA.TXSJNS «S£ CO.,
107 Kent Street, Syaney,
—FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Over 2700 Hydro-Bxtractors Sold and at vorM
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Eight Different Articles,
comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket (a good
trick), Book_of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin
and Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard
Fish (gives definition of your character), That Wonderful
Cinematograph or Book of Living Pictures, Mafeking
Grub (or nerve-strengthener), That side-splitting Look
and Laugh Glass, and, last of all, The Magic Mirror, or
Wonderful Breathing Glass. Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
X7lO George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
%
Those
suffering
from weak
and sore eyes,
and blight, should
SINGLETON S OINTMENT
Never Fails. Restores Eyelashes.
aljTchemists.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°’Bs Pitt Street
ARE
SOLE AGENTS FOR
m
m
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
and
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831.
WHISKY.
HEUDON SPA.
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd., Agents, Sydney.
-1%
HOBART.
—'
fjadiey’s Orient Ijotel.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Grade).
J. A. TURNER
Proprietor.
r /f
Dr. J. W. GIBBS’
, . Electric Message Rollers . .
For use on Face and Body.
For NERVOUS HEADACHES,
NEURALGIA and RHEUMATISM
—a specific. Removes Wrinkles.
Gold, 21/- Silver, 16/-
Post Free. Pamphlets Free.
AMERICAN AGENCY COMPANY,
Box 440, G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
PENFOLD’S
Natures Restorative.
The Jury of Experts appointed by
H. M. the King at the London
Exhibition, pronounced Penfold’s
Wines “Ear and away the best
wines ever seen from Australia.”
WINES
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
’ and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2£ 3 3J 4 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
-17 -/9 -/10§ 1/- 1/2 1/6 1/11 2/8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 IAO 2/2 2/11 3/5 4/6 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
J. C, LUDOWIGI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
m
IN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade— viz., the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
'9ct. gold-filled wire, witl? heart pendant ; guaran-
teed the same quality ns the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0. or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, 15ct
gold, filled, Bs. 6d. Illustrate d catalogues sent free'
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only add i'* *s■■■■
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA.
CAPILLA
HAIR
TONIC
MOST CEMTEALLT SITUATED
OTARD-DUPUY
Estbd. 1795. 25 Years BRANDY.
PROOF
Pa/ ev±s
m
Head Office:
10 SUCH ST., SYDNEY
Joshua’s BOOMERANG BRANDY
AMONG THE MANY TESTIMONIALS RECEIVED FROM AUSTRALIAN HOSPITALS
IS THE FOLLOWING :
“Our patients have greatly benefitted by the use of Joshua Bros.’ Brandy.
It is a very nourishing and Beneficial Stimulant. It gives me great pleasure
to recommend it.”
JI3T This is from the Resident Medical Officer of one of the leading Hospitals in Western Australia.
The Hair Restorer of the Century-
All Chemists and Storekeepers, 2/6 per bottle, or by post
from W. RICHARDS, Proprietor, 168 Pitt-st., Sydney
N.S.W., 3/2, Obtainable in Melbourne at G. Swift’s,
Chemist, Collins-st. ; Victorian price, 3/-. Full Course
17/2 ; Inter-State, 19/2.
USE
SPOONER S
0*
V
v
♦
»*#•
<WTlfcr;i6 : 00
BOOTS
'mm
I t
11V»UT||I
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
A POLICY FOR THE
Posted, Sd. COMfvjONW€ALTN.
The Belletin
Yol. 23. No. 1157.]
[Saturday, April 19, 1902.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE LATEST BOOKS AT .
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Knothbv The Curse of the Snake,2s6d & 3s 6d, postage 6d,
Benson, The Buck of the Vails, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Hume Woman the Sphinx, 2s 6d &3s 6d, p. 6d.
Villebois-Mareuil, War Notes (Enlarged Edt.), 3s6d,p. 6d.
International Students Atlas, is 6d, p. Is 6d.
Colquhoun, Mastery of the Pacific, Lis, p. Is 2d.
Johnston (Mary), Audrey (Ulus. Edtion), 6s, p. 7d.
Westall, The Old Bank, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Blissett, The Sea Hath its Pearls, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d
Crommelin, Daughter of England, 2s 6d &3s Od, p 6d
Boberton, A Gallant Quaker, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Huxley (Life of), Mod. English Writer Series, 2s 6d p. 4d
Hyne, Mr. Horrocks, Purser, 6s, p. 6d.
Bussell (Dora), A Strange Message, 2s 6d & 3s 6d p 6d
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
For tlxe Xj,XT3Xr<3-S, -fclxo TOmOAT, VOICE.
. ■ THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs ! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
m
A . The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C . The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D- A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SI N G EES
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Be,
Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous drug
glstered)
SOLO BY ALL CHEMISTS, in Tins, 1s 6d ; from the Proprietor 0. nUDSO:: Chemist, Ip.-
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and - a iI.ACi., and I'KI.T*
Melbourne, Agents. * r
,wich, (Queensland— post
, OIUMWADE & CO.,
THE RED PAGE.
Butchered to make a Dutchman’s Holiday!
Not a hint about the Dutchmen butchered
to make a “Breaker” (or was it a Bull)
holiday! Mr. Morant apparently had no
conscience ; he hadn’t even conscience enough to
remain in England and live the life of
what is known as an upper-middle-class
English gentleman. Evidently, he was abso-
lutely incapable of comprehending that he
had committed any crime ; indeed, his
brain was puzzling sadly over the question
why the laurel-leaves and the triumphal feast
were not set out for him, after his redoubtable
slaughtering of many Boers, as for a David. A
scientific mental alienist would have diagnosed the
“ Breaker’s” ease as one of a complicated kind of
madness, best turned to community-use by em-
ploying him to hunt down noxious animals or
to smash up disfiguring harbour hoardings.
This was the last letter “The Breaker,” while
in gaol, penned to one of his friends in S’Africa :
My dear
Hell to pay ! Isn’t it V— (you are all right and
’ll live to go hunting again). If anything happens to me
you write to my governor : and to my girl ( I —, N.
Devon). Also see Bulletin people in Sydney town and
tell ’em all the facts. How Hunt was shot by Boers, and
how I “ carried on ” —same as he would have done—had
1 been shot that night at Viljoen’s. Had I tumbled into
Boer hands, I’d have gone on whilst I had a cartridge left,
and then us d the butt, and then have been wiped out.
That’s what I’d expect if I had fallen into Boer lines—
wouldn’t have “groused’’ either —it would have been
just part of the programme— ! But it is damned
rough thi» treatment ! from our own British (?) side !
However, I put my faith in the Lord and Headquarters!
and hope to see a fox killed and kiss f 1
a Devon girl, again. Pretoria, 1
Buck-up, old man. Had I known as much two months
ago as I know to-day—there would be a lot of Dutchmen
at large that are now in Hell, or the Bermudas.
I’ve starved and trekked, and done my work tolerably
successfully from the Buck River to the Portuguese
Border and the result is :
D. S. Q.
a* i f
m 1 f
n ly i
c
er
Hope we go home together, if not,
Write to
My Guvnor
Girl
and Bulletin.
Thine,
> Tony Lumpkin.
Answer S. Afr. ’
Just part of the programme—war! Morant’s
idea of war was Ketchener’s idea in the Soudan,
Seddon’s in Maoriland now, but not the Civilised
idea, not the idea to be tolerated when among its
victims was a missionary, born a citizen of a Great
Power with a navy and an army. But what a fine
warrior of ancient Israel would Harry Mo rant have
made ! With what a remarkable simulacrum of a
conscientious conviction would he have smitten the
ememy hip and thigh, root and branch, in the face
of the Lord !
. In proportion as their manner of going out of
life was creditable to “The Breaker ” and co., so
was the manner of putting them out of life deeply
discreditable to the Ketchener authorities. -iFrom
what can be gathered from professed witnesses to
the truth in S’Africa and elsewhere, the Bushveldt
Buccaneers were not guilty of anything startlingly
unusual—until they killed a German missionary.
The defence of “custom ” was set up at the court-
martial by their counsel and it seems to have been
at least strongly supported. English common
law requires that a “custom ” to be established as
a sound plea must be “continuous, acknowledged
and reasonable.” Probably military law would
set the same limitations to the validity of
a plea of custom, and murder can hardly
be called a “reasonable” thing. So, even if
it were, as contended, a customary thing to
shoot down Boer prisoners when that could be
done without undue scandal, the custom wouldn’t
be a justification of the act. However, it would
give the men punished and their friends a valid
grievance. Why should stern justice be meted
out to us. whilst others go scot free ? Why should
the English officer who is a Bushveldt Buccaneer
be a gentleman and a soldier whilst we Austra-
lians are scallywags only fit for a firing-party ?
Our only fault is that we interpreted your instruc-
tions liberally. Others did the same and no word
said.
There is a great mass of allegation (of course in
the nature of things there is not, likely to be
direct proof until some English officers and gentle-
men are put on trial) that the crime of shooting
Boer prisoners was a general one. Thus one
officer writing from South Africa (a most strenu-
ous Jingo, by the way):—
The fact is Morant and his subordinates were made the
scape-goats of the entire British army. They were con-
demned and shot for shooting surrendered Boer prisoners
—not because shooting Boer prisoners has ever been re-
garded as improper—(in fact the practice is general
throughout South Africa), but because the German Govt,
got evidence on the subject, through the German mis-
sionaries, and no doubt threatened to make trouble.
Kitchener thereupon, fearing international complications,
arrested all the officers of the 8.V.0., but not until Oct.
24, a full three months after the offences complained of
were committed, although those offences were known of
at headquarters all the time, which is proi ed by the fact
that an officer was despatched to Spelokou to make en-
quiries in August.
After a court martial the 8.V.0. officers were carried
from Pietersburg to Pretoria (the trial was held in Peters-
burg) in a cattle truck, heavily ironed—(before even the
sentence was promulgated) and, there arrived, Major
Lenehan was reprimanded and ordered to Australia, and
Lieuts. Morant and Handcock were incontinently shot.
In Pietersburg district the biterest feeling prevailed
between the Boers and the English. Retaliatory shooting
is the custom all over S.A., in a minor degree, perhaps,
but it is substantially a custom. The fact is officers com-
manding outlying detachments are all given secret
instructions, or, rather, instructions which are supposed
to he kept secret, not to bring in more prisoners than can
be helped. If we were to bring in all the prisoners we
took the refuge camps would be flooded.
Evidence was given at the court martial at Pietersburg
that, Morant had been instructed by a headquarters
official to take no prisoners. Morant swore to
this, and another witness supported his statement. Evi-
dence was also given that the practice of shooting Boer
prisoners is universal, and several instances were given
on oath by the defence. Moreover, it was proved that
Morant’s prisoners were nearly all captured wearing
khaki. A long while back Kitchener issued an army
order permitting all officers of detachments to summarily
try and deal with all prisoners captured in khaki.
I can tell you our fellows here are wild over the whole
affair. We all believe that Kitchener has executed
Morant and Handcock in order to whitewash the British
Army. You ask any returned Colonial, and he will tell
you that there is, a general feeling among all troops,
which is carefully fostered by some of the British leaders,
that prisoners are useless encumbrances, and no notice
has ever before this been taken of shooting Boer prisoners,
although hundreds have been shot. Of course, there
have never been written orders as to prisoners— that
would n’t do, with the fierce continental criticisms of the
war always going oh. But a nod is as good as a wink to
a blind horse.
As for the Bushveldt Carbineers, they, were lambs,
compared to some of the other corps. Take the Canadian
Scouts, for instance. They were simply notorious for
shooting prisoners, even before their colonel, Gat-
Howard, was murdered by the Boers after he had surren-
dered to them. And since that time it has been their
boast that they never bring a prisoner to camp.
That shows the feeling in South Africa among
some (at least) Australian officers. And who can
say that it is not justified? There was certainly
something particularly cold-blooded in the way iii
which Morant and Handcock were shot (at
18 hours’ notice). They seem to have been
tried by court-martial, and then the find-
ings of the court-martial referred to the
authorities in England. Probably it was only
after a conference with Germany that the fate of
the men was absolutely sealed. If Germany would
have been satisfied with a lesser punishment per-
haps the crime of shooting Boer prisoners might
not have been accounted so terrible.
Altogether military glory has lost a good deal
of its glamour to Australians in S’Afriea. In
addition to this incident, there is a great and
wide-spread grievance arising from the snobbery
of the English officers. One Australian with a
commission writes to The Bulletin :
I’ve never had any decent treatment from any British
officer, even from those subordinate to myself. They
treat us colonials as if we were dirt under their feet.
They do n’t actually insult us, they dare n’t do anything
open, but they get there all the same. If one of our
fellows enters a room where English officers are talking,
the noble Britishers shut up and presently clear out.
Broadly speaking, they do n’t talk to us, and do n’t treat
us as comrades, but they persecute us with all sorts of
little discourtesies and subtle acts of oppression, and let
us generally perceive we are not good enough for them
to mix with. |
Shot as scapegoats, snubbed at the mess-table !
No wonder the Australians are getting “sick of
the war. ” Inflicting suffering on others is all very
well, but when it comes to having your own home-
paddoek burned ! And, this side of the world,
the snubs will have more weight than the shooting
in influencing public opinion—illogical, unthink-
ing public opinion—to give a martyr’s niche to
“The Breaker,” boldly dying—theoutcast Britisher
turned Australian, without a single “haw” in his
composition. Already there are murmurs against
the English court-martial on Australian officers,
though to give them their due, for all their
“ haws,” the English officers seem to have come
to a just decision on the evidence before
them, and probably were inclined to favour
rather than otherwise those irregular Empire-
builders, the ignorant Bushveldt Buccaneers
who could n’t distinguish between the con-
sequences of shooting a Boer and shooting a Ger-
man. But the long wait between charge and court-
martial and execution, the wait spent possibly in
Ketchener consulting Chamberlain and Chamber-
lain consulting Bulow, that is some real foundation
for a grievance. However, foundation or no founda-
tion, the grievance has arisen, perhaps to be the
muddy source from which will rise a river of
regeneration for Australia, just now mad with
Jingoism. Is it to be the fate of “The Breaker,”
wearing his blood-besmeared halo, to lead Aus-
tralians back to the path of Right ?
F.R.
Beatification of "The Breaker."
(With some Literary Remains.)
T~E died game.” That is the most charit-
I 3 able epitaph which a truthful acquaint-
* ance ean put over the tomb of “The
n j ® r ® a ker ” —assuming that his acts were,
aa alleged, the result of cruelty, and not the
result of orders ” which he had no alterna-
tive but to obey. It may be said of him as of
many another of his kind: There was nothing
m his life that so befitted him as his way of
go:ing| out of it; and in his case, as in the case
of. others, that graceful exit will atone in many
minds for sorry stumblings whilst playing his
little part on the world’s stage,
Where every actor must perform with art—
Orlaugh it through, and make a farce of all,
Or learn to bear with grace his tragic part.
Morant at least bore his tragic end with
that air of reckless, courageous diablerie
which is the most suitable mood of all for
buccaneer or bushranger or S’African “irregular,”
who has' come to the end of his tether and must at
last stand facing the muzzle instead of holding the
stock of the murderous rifle. That grace will at
least enroll him among the Jack Sheppards, Dick
Turpins, and Captain Starlights of history; and
the man who wants to live in the hearts of the
people—the great, unreasoning, unthinking people
—might be in worse company.
Heine, translating into the language of poetry
a phrase of Gibbon’s philosophy, tells how the
Tree of Humanity carries down to its latest years
the marks of those who scarred it with sword or
axe, but has no memory for the gardeners who
watered and sheltered it and tilled its soil. The
world, in truth, remembers its soldiers and high-
waymen long after it has forgotten its philo-
sophers and teachers. Morant, shooting and
being shot, has won a fame which his somewhat
respectable verses would never have gained for
him. He will certainly be an Australian bush
hero of the future, his statue in the Valhalla where
the venerated Ned Kelly and Starlight wear their
haloes unabashed.
Morant kept up his hearty defiance of fate to
the very last. Likewise he kept to the very
last his utter incapacity to appreciate the fact that
he had done wrong. Picturing himself as a patri-
otic Robin Hood, as an Empire-builder sacrificed
for his zeal, “The Breaker” wrote in gaol these
verses (now for the first time published):—
BUTCHERED TO MAKE A DUTCHMAN’S
HOLIDAY.
In prison cell I sadly sit,
A d—d crest-fallen chappie i
And own to you I feel a bit—
A little bit—unhappy {
It really ain’t the place nor time
To reel off rhyming diction—
But yet we ’ll write a final ryhme
Whilst waiting cru-ci-fixion !
No matter what “ end ” they decide—
Quick-lime or “ b’iling ile,” sir ?
We ’ll do our best when crucified
To finish off in style, sir !
But we bequeath a parting tip
For sound advice of such men,
Who come across in transport ship
To polish off the, Dutchmen !
If you encounter any Boers
You really must not: loot 'em !
And if you wish to leave these shores,
> For pity’s sake, Do n’t shoot ’em ! I
And if you’d earn a D. 5.0.,
Why every British sinner
Should know the proper way to go
Is : “Ask the Boer to dinner !”
Let’s toss a bumper down our throat,
Before we pass to Heaven,
And toast : “ The trim-set petticoat
We leave behind in Devon.”
At its end the manuscript is described—
The Last Rhyme and Testament of Tony Lumpkin—
THE BREAKER.
Victor J. Daley .
[Victor J. Daley, who is in poor health and
otherwise badly circumstanced, is being tendered
a benefit by admirers and friends who wish to
send him on a health-voyage. To stimulate in-
terest in this worthy project and to enlist tha
interest of such of the public as may not be well-
acquamted with Mr. Daley’s work The Bulletin
republishes below two of his poems, full of
characteristic melody and color, which it had tha
honor of originally printing.]
Some truly humorous person wrote this as an
inaugural ode for a great U.S.A. cold-water cele-
bration and the truly humorless water-drinkers
sang it in the most perfect good faith :
Would Eden thus have smiled
Had wine to Eden come ?
Would Horeb’s parched wild
Have been refreshed with rum?
And had Eve’s hair
Been dressed in gin,
Would she have been
Reflected fair ?
Had Moses built a still,
And dealt out to that host
To every man his gill,
And pledged him in a toast,
How large a band
Of Israel’s sons
Had laid their bones
On Canaan’s land !
If EdenI’s 1 ’s strength and bloom
Cold water thus had given,
If e’en beyond the tomb
It is the drink of Heaven.
Are not good wells
And crystal springs
The very things
For our hotels?
THE OLD WIFE AND THE NEW.
He sat beneath the curling vines
That round the gay verandah twined,
His forehead seamed with sorrow’s lines,
An old man yvith a weary mind.
His young wife, with a rosy face
And brown arms ambered by the sun,
Went flitting all about the place—
Master and mistress both in one.
What Caused that old man's look of care ?
Was she hot blithe and fair to see ?
What blacker than her raven hair,
What darker than her eyes might be ?
The old man bent his weary head ;
The sunlight on his grey hair shone ;
His thoughts were with a woman dead
And buried, years and years agone.
The good old wife who took her stand
Beside him at the altar-side,
And walked with him, hand clasped in hand,
Through joy and sorrow till she died.
Ah, she was fair as heart’s desire,
And gay, arid supple-limbed, in truth,
And in his veins there leapt like fire
The hot red blood of lusty youth.
She stood by him in shine arid shade,
And, when hard-beaten at his best,
She took him like a child and laid
liis aching head upon her breast.
She helped him make a little home,
Where once were gum-trees gaunt and stark,
And bloodwoods waved green-feathered foam—
Working from dawn of day to dark.
Till that dark forest formed a frame
For vineyards that the gods might bless,
And what was savage once became
An Eden in the wilderness.
And how at their first vintage-time
She laughed and sang—you see such shapes
On vases of the Grecian prime—
And danced a reel upon the grapes 1
And ever, as the years went on,
All things she kept with thrifty hand,
Till never shone the sun upon
A fairer homestead in the land.
Then children came—ah, me ! ah, me !
Sad blessings that a mother craves !
That old man from his seat could see
The shadows playing o’er their graves.
And then she closed her eyes at last,
Her gentle, useful, peaceful life
Was over—garnered with the past ;
God rest thee gently, Good Old Wife !
His young wife has a rosy face, ,
And laughs, with reddest lips apart,
But cannot fill the empty place
Within that old man’s lonely heart.
His young wife has a rosy face
And brown arms ambered b.v the sun,
Goes flitting all about the place,
Master and mistress both in one ,*
But though she sings, or though she sighs,
He sees her not—he sees instead
A grev-haired Shade with gentle eyes—
The good old wife, long dead, long dead.
He sits beneath the curling vines,
Through which the merry sunrays dart,
His forehead seamed with sorrow’s lines—
An old man with a broken heart.
A SUNSET FANTASY.
Spellbound by a sweet fantasy
At evenglow I stand
Beside an opaline strange sea
That rings a sunset land.
The rich lights fade out one by one,
And, like a peony
Drowning in wine, the crimson sun
Sinks down in that strange sea.
His wake across the ocean-floor
In a long glory lies,
Like a gold wave-way to the shore
Of some sea paradise.
My dream flies after him, and I
Am in another land ;
The sun sets in another sky,
And we sit hand in hand.
Grey eyes look into mine ; such eyes
I think the angels’ are—
Soft as the soft light in the skies
When shines the morning star,
And tremulous as morn, when thin
Gold lights begin to glow,
Revealing the bright soiil within
As dawn the sun below.
So, hand in hand, we watch the sun
Burn down the Western deeps,
Dreaming a charmed dream, as one
Who in enchantment sleeps ;
A dream of how we twain some day,
Careless of map or chart,
Will both take ship and sail away
Into the sunset’s heart.
Our ship,shall be of sandal built,
Dike ships in old-world tales,
Carven with cunning art, and gilt,
And winged with scented sails
Of silver silk, whereon the red
Great gladioli burn,
A rainbow-flag at her masthead,
A rose-flag at her stern ;
And, perching on the point above
Wherefrom the pennon blows,
The figure of a flying dove,
And in her beak a rose.
And from the fading land the breeze
Shall bring us, blowing low;
Old odours and old memories,
And airs of long ago—
A melody that has no words
Of mortal speech a part,
Yet touching all the deepest chords
That tremble in the heart:
A scented song blown oversea,
As though from bowers of bloom
A wind-harp in a lilac-tree
Breathed music and perfume.
And we, no more with longings pale,
Will stnile to hear it blow;
I in the shadow of the sail,
You in the sunset-glow.
For, with the fading land, our fond
Old fears stall all fade out,
Paled by the light from shores beyond
The dread of Death or Doubt.
And from a gloomy cloud above
When Death his shadow flings,
The Spirit of Immortal Love
Will shield us with his wings.
He is the lord of dreams divine,
And lures us with his smiles
Along the splendour opaline
Unto the Blessed Isles.
VICTOR J. DALEY.


M^DOUCALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
iT« BROS., 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
AGENTS:
W.Z, L. & M.A. Co., Ltd., Australia and New Zealand : Strachan, Cheedle & Co., Adelaide; J. B. Curran, Hobart
SKINS
Kangaroo,
Wallaby,
Rabbit,
Opossum.
Send to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO.,
SYDNEY,
and so obtain utmost possible prices.
Ltd.
Undeniable Figures prove that our PERFECT and UP-TO-DATE
system of handling Wool meets with full appreciation from Woolgrowers.
GOLDSBROUCHMORT & GO. Ltd.
SYDNEY
During the Season 1901*2 we offered at auction 63i343 bales, and sold
at auction and privately ex Catalogue 56)2 0 2 bales, thus firmly
establishing ourselves as the LEADING Wool Selling Brokers of Sydney on
account of COUNTRY CONSIGNORS.
We invite inspection of our popular TRUST A/c System and of the figures given above.
N.B.—Our Figures do NOT Include private Sales of Uncatalogued Wool. George Maiden, Manager.
OIL
LAUNCHES BUILT TO ORDER.
20ft. to 80ft. overall. ,
m
J. T.
Telephone 2671
“ KING” and “ SINTZ” ENGINES, 2J4 to 100 h.p.—1902 Models.
Mi cDER tml ott & c o jme y,
Factory Agents, 37 MARKET STREET,
SYDKTEY.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK; Price, 4s. 6d
HAVE THE
BEST.
r
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily operate!, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR.
The Lateral Wires are two-ply cable of best Gal. Steel Wire intersectedby Crimped Steel Pickets
securely interwoven at any desired distance apart, forming a perfect Web Fence which, will hold
securely all kinds of Stock.
FOR CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS
“CYCLONE ” WOVEN WIRE PENCE CO.
128 Franklin St., Melbourne ; 143 Sussex St., Sydney.
For Information Leading to the Conviction of Offenders.
PUBLIC NOTICE !
WHEREAS it has been ascertained that certain unscrupulous persons, aware
of the unprecedented success which has resulted from the placing on the market the
now Celebrated “Can’t B Beat” Shilling: Pipes, Branded Thus:
are selling certain Pipes to the Public as such, but which are infinitely
GBB
inferior, and are NOT the Genuine C. 8.8. Pipes, as supplied to the Trade and to
the Public at the various Establishments of Mick Simmons.
Notice is hereby given that as ignorance cannot in the future be accepted as an
excuse, all persons infringing our Rights as Proprietors of the above Brand, which
is an abbreviation of our well-known Trade Mark, “Can’t B Beat,” will be
prosecuted under the Trade Marks Act, and be Proceeded Against in Equity for an
Injunction
CBB
Trade Mark registered in Australasia and
New Zealand.
The Public are requested to see that the above Brand is stamped upon every Pipe
purchased, and they are particularly Cautioned against deception in this respect.
The Public are -further requested to at once make known to the undersigned any
attempt to pass off either unbranded Pipes or Pipes with any Brand other tkanthe
above, for C B B.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 Per Cent, to the G-rowera,
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge §</. per lb. to the Buyers.
Do Ton Want to be Cured?
If you suffer
from
rfgh
will give you back
Good Health
These diseases are, one and all,
caused by the retention in the
system of urea, uric acid, and
other urinary and biliary poisons,
which it is the function of the
kidneys and liver to remove.
'When the kidneys and liver,
from any cause, are unable to
do their work these diseases
result.
WARNER’S SAEE CURE is a scientific
compound which possesses the marvellous
property of being able to restore the kidneys
and liver to health and activity.
WARNER’S SAEE CURE restoring, as it
does, the kidneys and liver to health, these
organs extract from the blood the poisons
which cause the diseases. The poisons are
naturally expelled from the body, and the
diseases cured.


Coronation of the King!
COLONIALS visiting London for the coming functions, and desiring to
keep in touch with Financial matters in their respective cities, may
have their correspondence addressed to care of—
THE LONDON & PARIS EXCHANGE, LIMITED,
GENERAL MINING BANKERS.
Stocks and Shares are bought on a marginal deposit of 20 per cent,
and carried over at a uniform rate of 6 per cent, per annum.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED. MINING PROPOSITIONS NEGOTIATED.
Cable Addbess
“PLENARILY, LONDON."
BEDFORD McNEIL CODE.
Postal Addbess :
BASILDON HOUSE,
MOORGATE STREET, BANK,
LONDON, E.C.
DAK
®S£i
m
s=f
OCKET
m
Photography is readily mastered by
anyone in a few minutes.
No Dark Room is needed for changing the
Films of a KODAK, they are
LOADED & UNLOADED IN DAYLIGHT.
Kodaks all prices from 60. to £8 18a
Xo bo obtained of all photographic Dealer •>
Send for Price List, and mention this
paper.
KODAK Ltd. & Reduced,
THE BLOCK,
284 Collins Streetf MELBOURNE.
Free Lessons Daily at 3 p.m., at the above address.
GENERAL
ELECTRIC
COHPANT.
Capital - - - £5,250,000.
Manufactures the Highest Grade of
Electrical Machinery.
THEIR NAME IS A GUARANTEE.
Dynamos, Engines and Motors up to 250 H.P. in Stock.
Lighting and Power Plants for Immediate Delivery.
Arc and Incandescent Lamps and Supplies of all kinds.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.,
Electrical Engineers and Contractors,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, Melbourne and Sydney.
ON OUR SELECTION,” by . Steele Rudd
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Ltd., Sydney.
Another Maitland Proof.
Convincing Evidence.
LOCAL FACTS FOR LOCAL SUFFERERS.
The Case of Mrs. A. ANTCLIFF.
(BY a MAITLAND REPORTER.)
Students of human nature probably con-
sider it desirable to make an acquaintance
with the fiction of the hour, in order to
ascertain the trend of a special phase of
thought as it is expressed in certain quarters;
but if useful information for mental im-
provement is sought for it will be found in
the following narrative, which was supplied
by Mrs. Anne Antcliff, of Little Bourke-
street, West Maitland :
“Up to the time that two of my shops
were burned to the ground, some years ago,”
said Mrs. Antcliff “ I was a healthy woman,
but the awful misfortune which accompanied
the fire was the means of making me an
invalid for years. It was in High-street
where my property was destroyed, and most
people in Maitland will remember how I lost
my little boy, who was scarcely three years
old. Poor little fellow, he was burned to
death in the flames, and was never seen
again. As was only natural, I took this to
heart so much that I became prostrated
with grief, and my system broke down com-
pletely. If I drank a drop of soup or a cup
of tea I used to get very nasty turns after-
wards, as wind used to rise off my stomach
and give me great pain. Something ap-
peared to get round my heart and cause it
to flutter in a most distressing manner, and
a tight feeling in my cheßt made it neces-
sary to strain and struggle to get my breath.
Friends and acquaintances who came to offer
sympathy with me in my affliction found
that they could not cheer me up, as I was
too melancholy and broken-hearted to listen
to their conversation. You never saw such
an awful change as had taken place in me.
I could not sleep for thinking of my troubles,
and my nerves were terribly shaken and
unsettled. It is only likely that a great
shock to the system such as I had sustained
should bring much suffering to its unfortu-
nate prey. A dozen times a day I got a
fright from some cause or other, and my
nerves had no sooner lessened their tremb-
ling a bit than something else set them off
again. I was always in a state of terror,
and such extreme nervousness is too severe
on a woman’s constitution. No matter how
long I stayed without food, it did not im-
prove my appetite, and when I did eat it
was only because I forced myself to do so.
Nobody but myself can imagine
how I suffered after those light repasts.”
Taking advantage of a pause in the nar-
rator’s speech, the reporter asked :
“ Were th* pains worse than when you
took liquid nourishment ? ”
“ Oh ! a great deal worse,” replied Mrs.
Antcliff. “In the back, too, I experienced
great pain, which used to catch me with
great violence when I happened to be walk-
ing about, and the aching sensations in my
loins were enough to cripple one. I can
hardly tell you how drowsy and miserable I
was, and so weak that I could only do very
little work, and very little of that, before I
was thrown into a state of exhaustion.
There seemed to be something pricking me
between the shoulders continuously, and I
had to be very careful when I stood on my
feet, because of sudden tits of giddiness
This whirling of the head was all the more
awkward for me because my legs ached so
with weakness, and I usually took the pre-
caution of holding on to something to sup-
port myself. My skin was almost yellow,
and with my sunken cheeks and emaciated
body I must have looked the picture of
misery. The disordered condition of my
internal organs was testified to by a dirty
coating on my tongue, and when I got up
from bed a bitter taste in my mouth induced
a feeling of sickness. Any brief stretches of
sleep that I got while I lingered like this for
twelve years was always broken by fright-
ful dreams, so that I had no peace either
day or night.”
“Of course, you made some efforts to
overcome your troubles. What were they ?”
“ First of all I went to a doctor, and all
the time I was taking his medicines I did
not feel any better for them, and my pros-
pects appeared to me in the most dismal
colours. I thought I would never get strong
and well again, but I thought I might get a
little relief from some of the medicines
which I had seen extensively advertised. I
took first one lot for a while, then another,
and so on, till I gave up taking them in
despair, as they only made me worse. Then
I thought of Clements Tonic. I hesitated
whether to go back to the doctor again or
give that medicine a trial; but, as the treat-
ment of the latter had already failed, and
the former had not been given a chance, I
told my husband that he had better get me
some Clements Tonic. That medicine saved
me, I am happy to say ; but it did not do
so in a week. I was quite content to fiud
myself improving after taking several bottles
of Clements Tonic, and my faith in it was
soon established, because it was the only
medicine which had done me any good, it
proved itself better than anything I nad
ever purchased or had prescribed for me,
and I felt that my fate depended on it.
Clements Tonic gave me a strong incli-
nation to eat by way of a beginning, and the
food did me good, for I felt my strength
returning. The morbid depression was lifte i
from my mind, because I realised that my
nerves were becoming much stronger, and
the miserable thoughts which had haunted
me and kept me awake did not occupy my
brain. It was a great blessing to go to bed
and rest comfortably till morning, when 1
awoke without the sickly sensation in my
mouth, and feeling generally refreshed and
vigorous. These benefits came by regularly
taking Clements Tonic, and the drowsy
headaches and giddiness were got rid of in
the same way. The choking sensations in
my chest, and also the stomach pains, were
dislodged, and I was almost startled with
amazement when 1 discovered that the ex-
cessive beating of my heart had been reme-
died. There was no doubt now that I was
on the right side of the grave, and I had
nothing but Clements Tonic to respect for
placing me in a position of safety. I was
once a total wreck, but by removing my
mental and physical sufferings I am again
strong and healthy, and this worn) erful
alteration is attributable to Clements Tonic
It was remarkable the way my digestive
organs were repaired, and, of course, when
that was accomplished all the pains left me,
and nervousness never causes me a moment’s
discom ort,”
“Your cure was altogether permanent,
then ? ”
“ Yes, thank God; and I think all sufferers
should hear about it, so you may publish
this account of my recovery in any form
you deem fit.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Anns Antci.ipf, of Little Bourke-street, West
Maitland, in the State of New South Wales, Common-
wealth of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely de-
clare that I have carefully read the annexed docu-
ment, consisting; of four folios, and consecutively
numbered from one to four, and that it contains and
is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic ; and also contains my full per-
mission to publish in any way my statements—which
I give voluntarily, without receiving any payment;
and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at West Maitland, this
seventh day of November, one thousand nine hun-
dred and one, before me, M. P. MAHER, J.P.
PRIZE MEDAL DRESSING
HAUTHAWAY’S
PEERLESS GLOSS
takes first prize medals at Boston, Vienna, London, Phila-
delphia, Melbourne, and all other leading cities, for
ducing the finest possible polish, and absolute freedom
from all substances injurious to the leather.
It is the favorite dressing of the world for
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
shoes, as It Is easily applied, retains its brilliancy, and will
not rub off and soil garments. Try it once and you will
use it always. Sold nearly everywhere. Made only by
C.L.HAUTIIAWAY&
SONS
BOSTON, MASS.
U. S. A.


Diseases of
Children
Results that follow the most
satisfactory treatment
Some children have so many ailments
that how they continue to exist seems a
mystery. A little giil had measles, bron-
chitis, congestion of the lungs and wboo) ing
cough, one after the other, until her system
was reduced almost to a skeleton. The
mother tells the story in the following
letter:
“ 31, Charteris Road,
“Finsbury Park, London, England,
“November 13th, 1900.
“Dear Sirs,—Last December my little
girl had measles very badly, followed by
bronchitis, which left her very weak and
delicate. In July she had congestion of
the lungs and afterwards whooping cough,
which so reduced her that she became
almost a skeleton. She could not seem
to recover her strength, and I was advised
to give her Scott’s Emulsion. After a few
doses her cough was much better and easier
and she was able to retain her food, which
she could not do previous to taking the
fM
§
*igr*'
u
§
sr
m
BEATRICE EDITH STOREY.
(From a photograph.)
Emulsion. In a month after commencing
the treatment she began to look like her
old self, and gained in strength every day,
which was wonderful, considering what a
low state she was in when I first gave her
Scott’s Emuision. I found that the pre-
paration not only strengthened, but put
on flesh and built up her constitution, and
I am convinced that it is owing to the use
of Scott’s Emulsion that my little girl is
now the strong and healthy child she is.
“ Yours very truly,
“ (Signed) (Mrs.) M. Storey.”
The reason Scott’s Emulsion is so potent
in bringing back strength and vitality to a
weakened system, is because it enriches
the blood with the nourishing properties
of cod-liver oil without taxing digestion.
Ordinary food takes a certain amount of
strength in the dig stive process, and
where digestion is weak, as is usually the
case in illness, this is a burden. Scott’s
Emulsion, on the other hand, requires no
digestive effort, and consequently it can
give the system vitality and enrich the
blood with the nourishing properties of food
without any waste of energy.
You cannot expect to derive the benefits
which other people are deriving from Scott’s
Emulsion, unless you purchase the genuine
preparation. This may be distinguished
by our trade mark of a man holding a big
fish over bis shoulder, which is on the
wrapper of every genuine bottle.
You can obtain a sample of Scott’s Emulsion
by sending fourpence to Scott & Bowne, Ltd.,
483 Kent-street, Sydney, and mentioning this
paper. All chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
fluid
i
INDIGESTION&
Biliousness
WA V\
rtNULDA^
/ Infants
and Invalids.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Sits strip it
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33i per Hal]'-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on ApplioatiOD
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Seourlty of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand,
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per cent,
of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine. RICHARD TEEOE, General Manager.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HH&U&V,
Commercial
B uggy,
£l4 109*
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-sb.,
SYDNEY.
SSiT Send for a
Catalogue.
m
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO lSe.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Eight Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILIiIER, 130 Sussex-street.
W : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY,
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
m
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO
&
CIGARETTES.
v*' _
m
m
WHOLESALE
Distributing: Agrents
New South Wales —
m. RUTTY & GO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia—
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Western Australia—
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland—
Thos. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Phllp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin & Co.
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christchuroh.
Price 6s.
Post Free.
ON OUR SELECTION.
BY
“Steele Rudd.”
che jVtosi Refreshing 2)rink in jTustralia .
“Montserrat
Lime-Fruit Juice
ap& Cordials • . .
(TRADE SHARK)
The DANCET sayss—
counsel the public to drink
Dime-Fruit Juice whenever and
wherever they list- It Is a far
more wholesome drink than
any form of Alcohol-”
“ M ntserrat” Lime-Fruit Juice, either with water or aerated water, is a
delightful thirst quencher.
Sole Consignees—EVANS, LESCHEH & WEBB, LONDON,
EVANS, SONS & Co., liIYERPOOIi.
Agents: —Elliott Bros., Ltd., J. Connell & Co., Sydney; D. Cohen •& Co., Newcastle.
KARTELLS
"A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
“Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
The Lancet.
BRANDY
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
When tn town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price'List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £6 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent more for your requirement#-
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redforn, SYDNKSf
OUK SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
m
OeliYered at any Wharf or
>.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Bards of the Backblocks.
When the Poddy-Calves go to Drink!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Chink i chink ! !
I hear the wa / bell-birds’ chink.
As I drive the poddy-calves to drink !
Blink, blink,
I see the drowsy mopoke blink,
At the poddy-calves as they go to drink !
Wink, wink,
I—no I didn’t—see Bobby wink,
As the poddy-calves drooped their heads to drink.
Think—think ?
What can a freckled Tomboy think.
When she hears the cheeky bell-birds chink,
And seps the silly old mopoke blink,
Or sees—as I didn’t—young Bobby wink,
As she drove the slow poddy-calves to drink.
• . • • *
The years have gone, but the leaves still quiver,
And the ripples play on the turbid river.
And away in the scrub the bell-birds chink,
While high in the gums the mopokes blink.
But the poddy-calves now are heifers brown,
And the freckled Tomboy’s a lass from town,
And her one-time mop of unkempt hair
I s dressed, to kill, after hours of care ;
And her tattered frock, to a gown gives place,
While her whole sweet self is an elf of grace.
And she walks again—to think, to think —
Down the old bush-path where the bell-birds
chink.
And Robert is there as in other days,
And other calves go their devious ways,
Chink ! chink !
The bell-birds’ sons and daughters chink,
And the mopoke’s drowsy grandsons wink,
At these other calves as they go to drink.
RITA SUNYASEE.
Pullyerlegf!
Yes; I came from up the country where the
paddy-melons grow,
An excursion trip to Sydney for the Agriwebster
Show,
And I thought as I was just as smart as any chaps
in town,
And I reckoned there was no one as had like to
take me down.
Bet yer life that I was spry,
Up to snuff and fairly fly !
Oh, a youngster from the country can be smart,
and so was I!
First my mother started cryin’, said the Plague
was awful bad.
“Oh, the only plague’ll bother him is women,”
I answered Dad.
I Mother said sho reckoned father was a most dis-
gustin’ Pa,
But he said he'd been to Sydney, long before he
married Ma !
And I couldn’t help but think
Tha,t he winked a sinful wink
Ashe said: “Don’t you fear no think; jest be
careful what you drink ! ”
But my mother got me camphor-cakes and things ;
I she wouldn’t stop
Till I swear I smelt uncommon like a blessed
chemist’s shop !
i “ This is Bifkin’s Paralytic ” (her pronunciation’s
vague)
“Which they tell me,” says my mother, “will
preserve you from the Plague.”
Well, of course, I thought it rot
But I took it all —why not ?
And one morning in the city emptied out the
rotten lot!
Spare me days! It’s great in Sydney when you
ain’t too short of cash,
And you haven’t got to raise a “sprat” to get a
plate of hash.
And the fly blokes ! They aint nothin’ to the
coves at Diggers’ Flat.
Strike me pink; but Bill the Ringer’d show they
don’t know where they’re at!
Oh! I felt I was a pearl
In the gay and giddy whirl,
But it happened I encountered quite a scrumptious
little girl !
My Australian Affidavit! But she was a little
plum !
Cottoned up to me immediate, no standoffish ness
like some.
Pleasant, trim-built little party, cuddlesome and
neat, you know,
And the first thing that she asked me : “Would I
take her to the Show ? ”
Would I take her? I should smile!
I should snigger !! Just my style!!!
Fresh and fair and plump and wholesome, inno-
cent and free from guile !
Well, we saw the Agriwebster on the followin’
afternoon.
(Decent Show, the Diggers’ Flat blokes may get
something like it soon.)
But she simply knocked me bandy when she
smiled and said : “ Good-bye !
Here’s my brother come to fetch me ! ” Strike me
purple, where was I ?
Off they went—left me to stare !
“ Where's my purse! /” I yelled and sware.
os puy ii i lojpod i j ; ivj ora ojpjijg
; sniaiLT. svav j.j ji i i ora djoq
N. SYDNEY.
W. T. GOODGE.


/
m
SOAP
s < =
I? ft 5
THE WORLD-FAMOUS ROTHERHAMS.
Specially Manufactured to stand Ha? 'd R , ding
and Knocking About, and will Wear a Lifetime.
mm
GENT.’S FULL SIZE.
Strong, Reliable Oases.
Silver Hunting
9ct. Gold lt
ISct. ~ ,i
.. ..£4OO
Kevless 5 5 0
13 0 0
„ 17 10 0
J EWELLERS & OPTICIANS
-go King ST, Sydney.
LADIES’ FULL SIZE.
Richly Engraved Cases.
18ct. Gold Hunting, Keyless,
£l4 10s., £l5 10s., £l6 10s.
POST FREE.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
\\xy;
<5. X-Sf,
l\ 5
We keep them in order for 3 Years (breakages
excepted), and guarantee them to wear 25 Years.
English Lever Watches
&T-
Xm in 3
By “ Steele Rudd.
“On Our Selection.”
try orders.
trails. Plaits.
FRINGES, Best Natural Curly Hair, 3/6, 5/6,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6-each. TAILS and PLAITS,
20in. lone:, 5/6, ; Extra Thick, 7/6 ; 24in.,
10/6; Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz.
Don’t be misled. Our Plaits and Tails are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address”:— W. H. WIGZELL,
110 WILLIAM-ST., Corner of Palmer-at.,
Sydney. Cable trams will stop at door. All
work guaranteed Illustrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention given to coun-
Wigs made on shortest notice.
RHEUMALGIA
mhe new cure for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Gout, Sciatica,
■A- Neuralgia, and similar ailments
IS
a lotion compounded from herbs
PURELY AUSTRALIAN.
3S. 6d. POST FREE.
Rheumalgia Remedy Co., Bathurst,
Wholesale depot for N.S.W. and Q.
THREE STAR
BRANDY
By sending: a
Hennessy
Cork or Label
to Dept. F., Box 1024
Sydney, IM.S.W.
their
Art Folio
will be
forwarded
Post Free
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
m
m
Intelligence
From Abroad
/'We are in receipt of advices from Europe to the effect that a
3 large quantity of Euberoid Hoofing was used in the extensive
Cadditions recently made to the Imperial Palace at Vienna, Austria.
ROOFING
m
ROOFING
QUERY
If P& B Buberoid Hoofing is good enough for the Emperor of Austria and his
household to live under, it should mean a lot to you. Besides, it’s cheaper than Iron.
E. RICH & CO. LTD.
O’CONNELL STREET
SYDNEY
BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 23.—N0. 1157.
SATURDAY, APRIL 19. 1902.
Prich On.
THE power behind the throne.
CHAMUERDATN: “THE TERMS YOU PROPO [?]E, MR. KRUGER, ARE EMINENTLY SATISFACTORY AND WILL PROBABLY BE ACCEPTED BUT I CAN GIVE
YOU NO DEFINITE ANSWER UNTIL I HEAR FROM MR. SEDDON.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
4i Australia for tho Australians•"
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of 9°'’
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBER'S
(Payable in Advance, only)
ft 0 0
Per Annum ■ n e
Half-yearly ... ... n s ft
Quarterly
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maonlana .
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postaqe on Interprovincial Newspapers , the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
el, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can he sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of lid.. postage, subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s, ba. pr
annum , payable in advance .
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary
Exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a
paper edition o/Tiie Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with added where required
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year. .
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or transl\ate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illusti «
any other part of the contents of this number, isheteby
expressly reserved by the publishers .
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence column all Jontn-
butions submitted, whether m the form of J ’
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short lales 01 Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or say 3000 words.are spec
ally acceptable), Paragmphs, Letters, ° r
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. hut we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly und erstan/lthat we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To A mateurs in lllftclc nnd White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original hunwrous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct -reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current ovent,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a, good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
i* any picture which has to be re-draum will be P<f}d
for as a suggestion only. The conditions, under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS. .
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained yn London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street Jc Co., Comhill.
San Francisco. — L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and C°., 8 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency
Rhodesia .
SATURDAY. APRIL 19, 1902.
The Sudden Empire
“I believe that with the present ties only, and the
absence of power in Imperial matters, the Empire will
lose its unity long before another century dawns.
Canon Boyce, President of the British Empire League o
Australia.
To-day the third British Empire may be roughly
described as 150 years old in its oldest part. A
few fragments date back further than that, but
they are too few to be of importance. There were
two previous British Empires which were lost.
The first was Henry 11. ’s great but precarious
land-steal in Western Europe. When that guileful
Frenchman and his wildly-immoral French wife
reached out for the throne of England and
Normandy they brought into the partnership, in-
cluding the kingdom of Aquitaine, about two-
thirds of what is now France, and when Henry
added to this Ireland, Wales and Scotland—over
which two latter he exercised a somewhat pre-
carious feudal sovereignty his empire, the
greatest, bar Charlemagne’s, that Europe had
heard of since the palmy days of Rome,
spread from the Orkneys to the Pyrenees.
His two French sons, Richard I. and John,
lost part of it to the Scotch sub-kings, who
re-asserted their independence, part to the Welsh
princes who threw off their shadowy allegiance,
part to Cathal, the second King of the house of
O’Conor, who reduced the English sovereignty in
Ireland to very narrow limits, and a good deal to
the greatest soldier and statesman and most com-
prehensive reacher-out after property of his age,
Philip Augustus of France. The first British
Empire died out so suddenly that few realise how
pompous an affair it was in the day of its tem-
porary bloatedness. The second empire com-
prised Great Britain and Ireland, a considerable
section of the United States, with great, shadowy
claims on the lands beyond, a very thin strip of
Canada with an undefined claim on anything
behind that could be discovered or conquered later
on, Newfoundland (uninhabited by white men and
amounting to nothing but a casual mention on a
map) and .a. few small islands almost wholly
tenanted by niggers.' With the revolt of- the
United States the Second British Empire prac-
tically vanished from the map. There remained,
principally, Gibraltar, a “ factory ” and a bit of
soil about the size of a man’s hat in Africa, the
Bermudas, Jamaica, Barbadoes, Tobago, St,
Helena, a small bit of Canada, and a paper claim
on the unoccupied island of Newfoundland and
on a frozen strap of Labrador, with the footprints
of a bear here and there, and a view of an iceberg
in the distance.
* • • •
The third British Empire grew with the velocity
of a mushroom. There was nothing like it in
history except the rise of Persia, Macedonia, and
the Spanish American vice-royalties. A little
bit of Australia was added to it in the 18th
century, but the great bulk only became really
part of the empire in the 19th. India was added
during the hundred years just closed ; that cen-
tury’s beginning saw there only a scanty settle-
ment owned by a private company, and the bulk
of the present Indian empire was then uncon-
quered. Other additions since 1800 were Malta,
Cyprus, Aden, Perim, Kuria Muria Islands, Somali
Coast, Socotra, Mauritius, tl*e Rodrigues, Seychel-
les, Amirante, Oil and St. Brandon Islands, Maidive
Islands, Baluchistan, Burmah, Andaman and
Nicobar Islands, Straits Settlements, Wei-hai-wei,
Labuan, North Borneo, Hong Kong and Kowloon,
Maoriland, Fiji, part of New Guinea, about nine-
tenths of Australia, British Guiana, Ascension,
Tristran d’Acunha, South Georgia, Cape Colony,
Bechuanaland, Natal, Basutoland, Rhodesia,
British Central Africa, British East Africa,
Zanzibar and Pemba, the Niger Territories,
Gold Coast, Lagos, Walfisch Bay, Orange Free
State, Transvaal, Zululand, British Kaffraria,
Egypt, Nubia, part of the Soudan, and the great
North-West Territories of Canada. At the be-
ginning of last century the empire and its stan-
dard were alike new—the Flag that ‘‘ had braved
a thousand years the battle and the breeze” really
originated in 1801. The Roman State, from the
time when it became a conquering power to the
day of its fall, lasted nearly 2000 years; the
Babylonian empire appears to have hung around
in greatness and obscurity for even longer; the
Persian empire lasted 400 years; the Russian
empire has been building about as long ; the
Spanish-American lasted, counting the period of
its real greatness when it extended from the
Straits of Magellan to the borders of Canada, for
some 200 years; the Turkish empire was the greatest
Power on earth for about another 100 ; and Mace-
donia bossed the world for about 12 years aiad
then fell to pieces, The British Empire has cer-
tainly shown itself more durable than the Mace-
donian ; how it will compare with the others only
the passing of the ages can show. Just now it.is
a bright, fresh mushroom, and just beginning its
imperial career.
* » * • *
In the main, Britain has been moderately
prosperous as a colonising Power; and as a con-
quering and annexing Power it has been a great
success. Certainly it is a vastly greater success
at colonisation than France or Germany.
Still the majority of the English-speaking
peoples of the world have broken away
from England and formed a rival nation.
There is a greater emigration from the United
Kingdom than from any other State on earth
excepting only Italy, and about two-thirds of
these British immigrants leave _ the British
Empire, and get from under the British flag, and
become American citizens. There are not
12,000,000 people of British descent in all
Greater Britain. The British Empire is empha-
tically not Christian, not white, not English-
speaking, and, in the main, not in the enjoyment
of any form of political freedom whatever. Nine-
tenths of its people are black, brown or yellow.
Its prevailing religion is Hinduism, with Moham-
medanism second, Christianity a very bad third,
and plain Heathenism probably fourth. Its lan-
guages are many, but English only represents a
fraction of them. And the British Empire de-
prives of all political rights, all self-governing
power, all prospect of takiaig a hand in the
management of the Empire, and of all the most
cherished privileges of a free people, a large
population than does any other State on earth,
Russia and China not excepted. No State of
which there is any record ever violated, in so
wholesale a fashion, the allegedly inviolable
British political maxim that taxation and
representation must go together. And of the
great world-powers —Britain, Russia, and the
United States —Britain is the only one whose
people, by reason of their racial and color and
religious differences, can never become even a
moderately solid race. It preaches the doc-
trine of political freedom and equality, yet
an enormous majority of its people are de-
barred from any share in the control of
their own affairs ; as for giving them any real
share in controlling the empire, the idea seems as
ludicrous to the average Englishman as the idea
of raising a monkey or an elephant to high office.
This is an ineradicable weakness in the British
political system.
* • * *
The British Empire is built, in some important
respects, on the same sandy foundation which
gave way under the Persian one in old times,
and the Spanish-American one in times more
recent. There is no definite connection between the
centre and the outlying provinces, except that the
central power periodically sends a satrap to each
province. And the contempt of the Briton in
Britain for the one abroad is really as ineradicable
as was that of the Spaniard in Castile for the
Spaniard in Chili. The 40 million people in Britain
control the policy of the empire of 400 millions.
The bulk of the outside population are merely a
herd of political serfs, whose utter lack of political
privileges is aggravated by the fact that the
superior Briton is in full enjoyment of these
Erivi leges. They are taxed without representation;
erded off to wars in the making of which they
have no voice; made to find billets, and pensions
for the hangers-on of the superior race ; and the
oldest veteran or wisest statesman of them all is of
less account than the rawest and most newly-
exported English subaltern. The few self-govern-
ing colonies —they are very few —are in a little
better case. They control their own affairs, with
the reservation that their legislation may always
be upset by a Parliament and Ministry in the
election of which they have no more voice than
has the Indian ryot. They are liable to be in-
volved in wars in the making of which they have
no voice. According to an almost invariable rule
no mere “ colonist ” can hold office as Governor.
He cannot have the smallest control over the
affairs of the empire to which he belongs unless
he goes to Britain, the country where the superior
race hangs out, and begins his political career
afresh. No Englishman can settle in any British
colony without forfeiting the best part of his
British citizenship—his right to share in the
control of the empire. He gives up his im-
perial suffrage for an aldermanic one, and
with it he surrenders every great ambition
in public life. The American from the most
newly-added State has the same chance, without
abandoning his State, to be President, general,
admiral, ambassador, minister, or State Governor,
as the man from one of the States which formed
the nucleus of the Union and held up the original
flag with Greene and Gates and Washington.
The British colonist has not. He is an inferior
being, a partially-enfranchised serf j he is to
the Englishman almost what the Creole was
to the Spaniard. The fact that Lord Roberts
found it necessary the other day to appeal, to the
British officers not to treat Australians who had
gained commissions in the British Army absolutely
like dogs or niggers, was one case in point among
many. The British private soldier, the “Colonial
pioneer, the gallant Sikh or Sepoy, and the horse
are all spoken of with admiration in British
literature, and one has about as much chance as
the other to be regarded by the Englishman ot
the ruling classes as a brother and an equal.
• • * *
It is impossible to federate this great, sham-
bling, casual empire into a solid whole without
handing over the control to the great nigger
majority. It is impossible to federate the white
population of the empire without abandoning all
the bogus traditions about liberty and equality
and political freedom, and laying it down as a
definite rule that the great black majority is
merely a mass of serfs and bound to remain ® u hh.
Even the white portion of the empire can t be
federated unless Britain sacrifices all its cherished
traditions ; it has built up a system under which
union is impossible. An Imperial House of Com-
mons is possible, but the House of Lords is an
insuperable difficulty. If the white population of
Greater Britain sent elected members to sit with
Britain’s hereditary peers the latter would form
the majority, and it would simply mean handing
over the control of our affairs to men whose only
qualification is that they are the eldest sons of
their predecessors. If the “colonies” sent a
newly-created shoddy peerage of their own to sit
with Britain’s peerage it would only be the
same evil in an aggravated form. If Britain
would abolish its' ruling aristocracy and
consent to have two elected Imperial Houses
of Parliament for purely Imperial matters (which
would mean creating local Parliaments for
England, Wales, Scotland and Ireland) then it
would be possible to arrange that the British
dependencies should be represented therein accord-
ing to population—or rather according to their
white population—and the shapeless empire
would begin to show some signs of form and
solidity, but a British Government which consists
mostly of peers isn’t at all likely to abate any of
the privileges of its order. Even if it did, these
drawbacks would remain: (1) The dominant
Briton has hitherto denied self-governing powers
even to a large number of the white communities
of the empire, and it would be absurd to give
these a share in controlling the empire when they
are not allowed to even manage their own local
affairs ; (2) a federation of the empire from which
the great black majority was excluded would be a
direct incentive to that black majority to revolt as
soon as it became sufficiently educated to under-
stand the insult put upon it; (3) a time must
come when Canada, merely by reason of its size
and fertility, will be more populous than Britain,
and Imperial Federation would, some day,
necessitate the haughty Briton taking a back seat
in his own empire, and, possibly, sinking into a
mere-dependency of an Imperial Government that
had .shifted its political centre to Ottawa —just as
the centre of the empire would now probably be at
Washington if the United States had not cast off
its allegiance. Yet, if Britain won’t federate on
these terms, and it seems highly improbable
that it will, it is difficult to see that there can be
any federation. And if there is not, the great
colonies, when they begin to overshadow the
United Kingdom in population, will inevitably
break away. The present terms of union are too
degrading to be borne by a grown-up community
of 40,000,000 people, though an infant one of
4,000,000 may not seriously resent them.
* * * *
Furthermore, the British Empire is weak in the
fact that the Englishman has no real capacity for
conciliating the white races he has annexed. He
has failed with the Irishman, though he has
drenched Ireland with blood, confiscated its
lands, destroyed its manufactures, turned it into a
land of big estates held by rack-renting absentees,
and otherwise exerted himself. He has failed
with the Cape Dutchman. He has not wholly
succeeded with the French-Canadian. He is not
in the least degree likely to succeed with the
Dutchman of the Transvaal and the Orange Free
State. In each case he states confidently that it
is the utter ruffianism of the other man that is
the cause of the trouble, which was exactly
what the Austrians said of the Italians, the
Russians of the Poles, the Spaniards of the Cubans.
The British Empire consists of a comparatively
small minority of white men, many of whom can’t
be trusted, holding down an immense majority of
black men, hardly any of whom can be trusted.
That part of the empire which is governed wholly
from London is governed mostly in the commer-
cial interests of London, and as a result it is mostly
poor. There is no strikingly prosperous Crown
colony in all Edward Yll.’s dominions. ( They
are in debt to London; dotted over with big
estates owned in London ; their mines are con-
trolled in London by virtue of “concessions”
granted by governors sent out from London to
people in London ; they are financed by London-
managed banks ; they are burdened with pensions
to retired officials who have gone back to London.
Without any active misgovernment in the old
violent mediaeval sense of the term, London eats
them up. When a rich goldfield is found in a
Crown colony the leases are granted by English
governors to English companies, English managers
come out (and after a few years go home again,
taking their savings with them), mining machinery
comes from England, directors’ fees go to England,
dividends go to England. Probably an English
company makes a railway to the mines, the colony,
per medium of its English governor, often guaran-
teering 5 per cent, dividends, and the colony,
which gains little except the privilege of
supplying nigger labor at, perhaps, ss. a week
per man, is taxed to pay the guarantee.
> * • * •
Yet it is questionable if the business pays even
England in the true sense of the term. That
country has many empire-builders of the Rhodes
type—'insensate earth-grabbers whose one idea is
to annex more hostile white men and more
millions of hostile niggers—to make the Empire
more black and more pagan. But it hasn’t one
statesman who tries seriously to arrest the decay of
its own people. Over more than half the area of the
British isles population is constantly decreasing,
and the gain of ten million weedy people in the
slums of the big cities doesn’t compensate for the
loss of five millions of the sturdy peasantry who
won Britain’s battles in the old days, when Britain
used to put up better war records than it has done
of late in South Africa. In one of the largest
counties of the United Kingdom the population is
now thinner than it is in Victoria, and in others
it is rapidly approaching the same standard.
There is abundance of time to arrest this evil, but
if it is not arrested it will be the story of Rome
over again—the State that fell through the growth
of big estates and the destruction of the fighting
elements of the population.
* * * *
And so the problem of where the British Empire
will be at the end of this new century is an in-
teresting one. It is quite a new empire. It was
nearly all built in a century. It is the
result of a sudden burst of national energy
in fighting, in land-stealing, plundering,
and financing—such a burst as Spain, Portugal,
Holland, Turkey, and every other big empire had
at some period of its career. It is exactly 88
years since Britain was last worsted in a naval
campaign—since then its fleets have ruled the
sea unquestioned. It lias held the commercial
supremacy of the seas for exactly 42 years—the
United States was the world’s great sea-carrier in
1860, but the destruction of the Republic’s mercan-
tile marine in the Civil War enabled Britain to
recover its lost lead, which i.t has since retained,
though of late years rival nations are closing up
on it again. Everything is young and sudden
about the present British Empire—except Britain
itself. It has solved none of the problems which
lost the last empire—it holds Australia and Canada
in almost the same slipshod fashion as it held
New England, only they have not grown so large
in proportion to the size of the British nation as
New England had done in Washington’s day.
Joe Chamberlain is developing almost the same
crude ideas about raising money from the colonies,
without giving them any Parliamentary represen-
tation, that Lord North held 130 years ago.
Altogether, there are a whole lot of things to
speculate about between now and the year
2000 a.d.
PLAIN ENGLISH
The Pearl-Shelling Bluff.
Just now, the Australian papers are full of
pathetic letters about the inevitable ruin of the
pearl-shelling industry of Thursday Island (North
Queensland) unless the Federal Government per-
mits the importation of nigger labor. Pearl-
diving, it is alleged, be done by white men,
and if the supply of nigger is cut off the industry
will be compelled to shift its quarters to
Dutch New Guinea. There, according to the
Tory papers, the pearl-fishers will receive good
treatment, unlimited nigger, and (if they become
Dutch subjects) the run of all the pearl-fisheriei
of the Dutch East Indies. As regards the last
point, the obvious attitude for the Federal Parlia-
ment to take up is that, as Australians are shut
out of Dutch waters, Dutch subjects, or residents
of Dutch ports, shall be similarly excluded from
the waters of the Commonwealth, and if the
“loyal” capitalist forswears his country and his
flag, and becomes some kind of a naturalised Boer
rather than employ his own countrymen, he must
take the consequences, and herd exclusively with
his new people. But, as a matter of fact,
the whole tale of removing the industry
to Dutch waters appears to be a stupendous bluff.
The correspondence which fills the papers on this
subject can be traced to one interested source. In
this matter Premier Philp, of Queensland, is not a
reliable witness—nor is anybody else connected
with the correspondence. At recent advices there
were 247 boats equipped with diving apparatus
carrying on the pearl-fishery on a large
scale around Thursday Island, and of these
90 belonged to the firm of Burns, Philp
and Co., and 80 to another firm in which
a near relative by marriage of Premier
Philp is a member. The pearl-fishery was a
white man’s industry till about 12 years ago,
and all the diving was done by white men—at
good wages. Then the nigger was introduced at
reduced wages, not as a matter of necessity, but
through sheer greed, and the white man was
crushed out, but there is nothing save mean eco-
nomy to prevent him taking to the business again.
No alien whatever is now allowed to hold a pearl-
shelling licence and work on his own account, lest
he should compete with the syndicates. No more
licences are now allowed to be issued, which pre-
vents new men or new syndicates coming in to
compete with those already on the grouud, and
the existing licences, instead of being annually
put up to auction' for the benefit of the
Treasury, are renewed every year to the
present holders —who are largely Burns, Philp
and Co. —at an almost nominal figure. And the
large, comprehensive hand of the syndicates, and
the wealthy Melbourne firm which acts for some
of them, is responsible for the disinterested and
patriotic protests against the “ destruction of a
great Queensland industry ” which now fill the
Australian papers, and break out in the Sydney
Evening News’s leading articles. As a matter ot
fact, if cheap nigger labor is abolished and the pre-
sent owners do move to Dutch New Guinea, and
throw their allegiance overboard, and become some
kind of naturalised Boers, all that is necessary is to
shut them out from the Australian pearl-fishery
as they shut out other aliens, and the old, white-
man industry which they killed will revive again.
Then the country will be some £30,000 a year
richer, that being about the amount which the
Jap. divers take back, or send back, annually to
their native land. And the Jap. Government
isn’t likely to object unless the syndicates
persuade it to do so. It has enduie
the gross insult of having its subjects
declared unfit to hold licences and to work
on their own account. . It has seen the
Japanese owners abolished, in the interests of the
white owners, and now it can probably stand
seeing the Jap. worker abolished in favor of the
white worker. Thursday Island, which ought to
know something of the state of affairs, voted a
strong Labor and anti-nigger majority at the
Federal elections, and, as the place, .which
is allegedly going to be ruined, its opinion is
worthy of respect.
“ The Greatest Army on Earth.’
Last week the cable spoke with a loud anxious
whisper about a military scheme which, it is said,
is to be laid before our pliant and unsuspecting
Toby Barton when he goes to England at a cos
of £lB5O to watch the Coronation. The cable-
gram breathed the information in this country ®
ear in a manner which suggested that it had leake
out by accident, and that the intention had be
to keep it secret till the Premiers had assembled
in London and then rush them into it after dinner.
At the same time the Minister for War has
openly stated that a huge scheme, whereby the
British dependencies are to be made liable
assist with their whole forces in all British wars,
is being devised and is to be l. a id before
visiting Premiers, which lends an air of probabi i y
to the revelation. The British Government, it is
alleged intends to raise a really Imperial army
one gathered from all parts of the empire
largest army in the world. The shocking
sufficiency of its present force, as revealed by
fact that, when it became involved in a war
where its navy was of no service,. it became
necessary to strip the United Kingdo
troops in order to suppress a population
less than 200,000, is doubtless the eause oi
this. The British Isles, so the report goes,
are to supply about 1,300,000 men—3oo,oo . g
lars and about 1,000,000 reserves. Canada
find about 200,000; Australia, 100,000 ;
Africa, 100,000; Maoriland, 50,000; India, la i


The cablegram doesn’t give exact figures— it
speaks in army corps, not in thousands of men ;
but it seems to be implied that the army corps
shall be 50,000 strong, which works out as above.
A great part of the force must, of course, be citi-
zen soldiers, but still they are to be armed and
drilled and ready at short notice to depart for the
far ends of the earth, to take a hand in wars in
the making of which Australia and Canada and
the other non-British parts of the empire will
have no voice, to kill people with whom they have
no quarrel, to grab land in which they have no
interest, and to be mercenaries without the privi-
lege of selecting their quarrel. Of course, such a
scheme is almost certain to necessitate conscrip-
tion —to avoid the use of the obnoxious word it
will probably be called “ballot,” as it was in the
old days; in fact, the conscription or militia-
ballot law exists in England even now,
and is merely suspended. Something of this
sort is inevitable sooner or later. The big-
gest empire in the world has been built up
during the last century. In all that time Britain
has had the extraordinary luck that it hasn’t
required to meet a single enemy of any size single-
handed, or even with only one ally. That kind of
good fortune can’t continue, and the biggest empire
in the world must have some sort of adequate
defence, especially now that, by the process of ex-
tension, it rubs shoulders on land with almost every
possible enemy on earth. The Chamberlain
crowd apparently has an idea that one way out of
the difficulty is for the United Kingdom to reserve
to itself the sole right of making war, and all the
profit and plunder, while letting its dependencies
have a liberal share of the fighting. Premier
Barton is almost easy-going enough to assent to
anything. Seddon, of Maoriland, is sufficiently
mad and sufficiently blood-drunk to assent to any-
thing at all, and the fact that the scheme includes
the supplying by Maoriland of times its fair
share of troops, as compared with Australia,
shows that Chamberlain has accurately sized-up
Seddon’s blood-drunkenness. It is so exactly
like what Chamberlain has been doing—in the
matter of the recent contingents he availed him-
self of Seddon’s madness to demand from him five
times the force that his State should have supplied
on a population basis, as compared with Aus-
tralia—that it lends an air of deep probability to
the whole revelation. Seddon, who demoniacally
clawed the air, the other day, and offered twenty
more contingents, would probably agree to main-
tain 100,000 men, instead of 50,000, if asked, and
it will be a pity if, with a view to bringing the
whole matter to a head, Chamberlain doesn’t ask
for them. Perhaps, when he hears of Seddon’s
anxiety to send twenty more contingents, he will
do so. Meanwhile, on this side of the water, it
becomes more advisable than ever that the Federal
Parliament should explain, by a solid majority,
that Toby Barton has no authority from it to do
anything except have a good time, and that he is
only authorised to take his muzzle off for drinking
purposes.
*
A Tale oi Philanthropy.
The story of a Sydney consumptive as related by
a practical local philanthropist:—
The tragedy of poverty and sickness is bad enough,
but when Religion undertakes to act the comforter
matters are not always improved. A certain African
negro of the large humble-dog type had his address in
the cellar of such-and-such a building. Here he lived a
peaceful though somewhat dank and dark existence with
his “ missus” and child, till she, from causes inexplicable
to the African non-intelligence, developed consumption.
Various charitable institutions descended cellarwards
and decided that this wouldn’t do, so she was trundled
off to a home. But the home was crowded, and she was
quickly trundled out again when they found she
wouldn’t get well or die off smartly enough. Then
there was a wandering round Woolloomooloo, com-
pared to which the journeying of the Israelites
was an afternoon picnic, because no intelligent
lodging-house landlady wanted a woman with tuberculosis
and it took time to find one who would consent to risk
her own and her boarders’ health for 15s. a week. Uncle
Tom, whose face at this time was perpetually wet with
large, silent tears, scraped together this amount till,
when coin had become very scarce, the dusky “ missus”
suddenly remembered she was a Roman Catholic. The
nuns thereupon took her to their home of rest. In this
institution the patients are allowed their own time to die
in, and the accompaniments to dying are flowers,
and soft voices assuring them that they are
better, though better only means nearing port.
About this time affairs were complicated by the
discovery that Uncle Tom and his missis were not mar-
ried. She had been married to black Uncle Toby, who
thrashed her, so Uncle Tom had taken her away', and
cared for her and the little girl, giving her the most of
his miserable wages, and altogether behaving as a gentle-
man from the Pagan standpoint; but, according to the
strict Christian aspect, Uncle Tom is a man of sin, a Don
Juan, and a ruiner of women. The realisation that he
had lured her into wrong-doing, combined with the felt,
rather than spoken, influence of the spiritual advisers,
made her send word that Tom must stop awav, and not
come like a relation to see her every day. Uncle Tom is
broken-hearted. He does not realise what a bad
lot he is, and comes heavily into the presence of
people that know the case, being a very humble
Don Juan who has to be told six times to take
a seat, while he almost melts awav when tearfully asking
theworld in general to put things right. His great fear
is that he may not be allowed to do his missus the honor
of burying her ; and, although he is usually too meek to
pass criticisms on anything belonging to the superior
race, he thinks the white man’s God might be largely
improved. It is very sad for Tom ; his missus has at
least the pleasure of repentance, but poor Uncle Tom
wanders in the outer darkness of heathendom, appreci-
ating nothing even of its blessed privileges.
4.
The Commonwealth “Rotten Borough.”
A letter from Tasmania :
Tasmania is the “ rotten borough ” of the Common-
wealth. It has been prostituted to some of the most
smellful syndicates ever hatched, and has, at the present
* more glaring jobs to the square mile than any other
British possession. The V.D.L. nightmare sits heavily on
nearly one-twentieth of the best land in the island. The
Great Western railway grab still holds a “ concession ” of
one-sixteenth of the territory. Hobart streets have been
handed over to a tram syndicate for ever. The Eastern
Extension Telegraph Co. has been presented with
rights that are almost inconceivable in their stupen-
dousness. A private gas company holds the interminable
monopoly of electrically lighting Hobart and chokes
the place into semi-darkness in the interests of gas. A
franchise of seven votes is allowed to a proper-
tied Chinaman, while a white working-man householder
has no effectual vote, inasmuch as his landlord votes in
respect of the same tenement. Special Act of Parliament
created a one-man monopoly in gambling which
threatened not only Tasmania but Federal politics.
Tatt. s is admittedly so great in Tasmania
that a member of Parliament—like, say, Senator
Reatino— ccmld even now be completely knocked out
of federal politics by the merest wooden man
who was backed by Tattersall. In the hope
ot checking the ineradicable propensity of its local
legislators to pawn the freedom of future generations to
the monopolist, Tasmanians who have consistently
fought agamst the putrid jobs aforementioned, voted for
federation. If the Federal Government has not the
courage or the brains to shift the V.D.L. and other
monopolies, Tasmania had far better have been left to
bear its pun shmentalone. No elections will be necessary if
TaAersall is allowed to retain his monopoly ; the Governor
will simply ask George Adams to send in a list of persons
Whom he would like to have branded M.H.R., and they will
s °“ d w ‘thout further ado. Signs are not wanting
that the sudden stoppage of sweeps is to be used to stir
up a revolt against the Barton Government. The matter
™ that is certain, for, apart from
J"l threate " ed Hl K h Court proceedings, there is bound
to be an agitation for some method of enjoying a cheap
and reliable gamble. That such an agitation will wreck
any Federal Government that happens to block its way
is also on the cards, and the country may be sent
on a riotously expensive election splurge when it can
afford neither the time nor the money for such a proceed-
ing. And the High Court decision may even involve an
amendment of the Constitution, which is another big and
expensive possibility to be reckoned with. If Barton
trots away to the Coronation razzle with things in their
present unsettled state, he is a reckless man indeed, and
no statesman. For the writer of these presents has just
seen Premier Neil Lewis coming down the steps of the
Tasmanian Club, and the light of battle that shone from
his eyes illuminated the other side of the street, and
scorched the boots of passers-by. Clearly the Premier of
the Rotten Borough is a person to be placated without
loss of time.
Trial by Jury and Verdict by Judge.
The foreman of the jury at the trial of Charles
Lukin at Sydney for the murder of Rachel
Baikie has addressed the daily papers upon a
point to which The Bulletin has often called
attention. He wrote :
This case proves the great need of an amendment
to our criminal laws, making some degrees in a verdict
for murder. Of course, at present a verdict of murder
must be followed by the death sentence, leaving the com-
paratively small chance of a reprieve from the Executive.
This lays a very heavy burden on the shoulders of juries
in these cases. In the case quoted the fact was quite
clear as to guilt, but it was also quite clear that, while
the prisoner could not be called insane, he was at the
time quite unaccountable for his actions, owing probably
to violence of temper, and I trust that the law may soon
be amended, giving juries an opportunity of bringing in
a verdict in such a case which will only carry imprison-
ment.
In civil cases trial by jury is trial by jury : the
12 or four men in the box say whether the article
is a libel, or _ whether the co-re. has seduced
petitioner’s wife, and also award the damages.
There is no fear that a farthing’s worth of libel
will be paid for at the rate of £lOOO through the
Judge taking a different view from the jury, The
Bench is strictly confined to the duty of interpre-
ting the law. In criminal cases the jury is only
allowed to say “guilty” or “not guilty”: it
cannot say how guilty. Its position is almost as
awkward, from a logical point of view, as that of the
man who is required to say plain “yes” or “no” to
the query : “ Have you left off beating your wife
yet?” And its only way out of the difficulty is,
in many cases, a lie—a palpably absurd verdict of
not guilty instead of the verdict which it wants to
return of “ guilty_ to the extent of ten years’
gaol.” _ The result is that many gross miscarriages
of justice occur, and many ruffians who should
grace prison-cells are improperly liberated to prey
upon society. A perplexed jury in a murder case
wishes to say, “Guilty—ls years’gaol,” and says
plain “Guilty,” with a recommendation to mercy;
the man is hanged, and perhaps three or four suc-
ceeding manslayers are let off with a false verdict
of “ Not guilty,” because the jury can’t make cer-
tain of sending them to gaol, and is not going to
run the risk of hanging them. This vicarious
atonement of many slayers by the hanging of one
is against public policy—which demands that
punishment should be sure, as absolutely sure as
possible, though not savage. It is far better to
put 95 per cent, of manslayers in gaol until they
are beyond doing further mischief than to hang 20
per cent, at the price of letting, perhaps, another
40 per cent, go scot-free. Let us then have, not
only the decision but the verdict from the jury in
criminal as in civil cases. As to the competency
of a jury in the matter —the mind of the jury-
man which is capable of assessing damages in com-
plicated civil cases is surely capable of assessing
punishment in simple criminal cases.
• ♦
A State Tattersall.
Premier Lewis, of Tasmania, has stated with
some heat, like a man repudiating a base aspersion,
that he does not intend to create a State lottery
after the fashion of Tattersall, to replace that
lamented gamble. If that is so, then public sym-
pathy with the embarrassed Tasmanian financier
ought to break off. There is no time, in this
hurried sphere, to waste compassion on a Minister
who won’t help himself; and as for the Federal
Parliament lending money to a State which keeps
such a helpless person in office, it is not to be
thought of. It is sheer folly to lend money to a
helpless person like that; the security of helpless
people is not good enough. Tattersall’s is a
strictly moral, honest, and creditable gamble, and
one that any man might be proud to be connected
with—if it was otherwise it wouldn’t be legalised in
Tasmania under Premier Lewis’s supervision, and
Premier Lewis wouldn’t barrack for it. The fact
that Lewis is Tattersall’s friend and supporter
puts the respectability of the business beyond
question. Now Tattersall, it would appear, can’t
carry on the business any longer, and the Tas.
Government expects to lose at least £20,000 in
consequence, counting postal revenue alone. The
Tas. Government could carry the business on—
even P.-M.-G. Drake would hardly dare to stop
its letters; and by so doing it could not only re-
cover its lost £20,000 or more of postal revenue, but
it would probably make another £50,000 a vear in
commission. If it misses this opportunity, not
only does it reduce Tasmania to dire financial
straits but a pure and honorable institution
(guaranteed to be so by its association with the
Tas. Government) will probably vanish from the
earth, which can’t afford to lose institutions of
that kind. A moral oasis (proved to be such by
the support given to it by Lewis, Bhaddon,
Hartnoll, and other unimpeachable characters)
isn’t met with every day. And there is nothing
in the way of its preservation, except possibly
some antiquated notion about the Ministry’s
dignity. A Ministry that will wreck its (State’s
finances oyer a small shred of personal dignity is
an expensive and silly luxury, and not a thing to
be encouraged.
«
The Sweating 1 of the Child.
Country children in Australia should bless State
school-teacher G. J. Mead, of Ruby (Vic.), for he
has called public attention to a cruel evil under
which they suffer. At a recent meeting of the
Sixth-class State School-teachers’ Association, he
declared (and many people who have lived “in
the country” can endorse his facts) that,
before school-hours, young children are sent
out to round-up and milk any number of cows
up to 14 each. Tnen, the moment their school
is closed, they have to repeat the milking opera-
tions. “ This,” said Teacher Mead, “is the most
abominable form of sweating ever heard of in any
civilised country,” Teacher Byrne, of Fairbank,
South Gippsland, added his experience. There
were children of seven or eight years of age
attending his school who had to milk 10 or 12
cows every morning before going to school. When
school was over the milking had to be repeated.
He knew of one case where the children had to
get up at 5.30 a.m. and milk the cows, while
the father was lying in bed. In consequence
they arrived at school dead tired, and were
quite unfit to attend to their lessons. Teacher
Cullinan, of Devenish East, remarked that the
teacher’s heart often bled for these unfortunate
children who arrived at school completely worn
out with their labors on the farms. The president
of the Association, Teacher A. Fowler, of Kilmore,
stated that boys who underwent this work were
stunted in growth and did not know what boy-
hood was. Many of these children, too, have to
trudge three, four, and even five miles to school.
The roads are rough, and often the country side is
either drought-stricken or flooded. In Minister
Gurr’s Teachers Bill introduced to Yic. Parlia-
ment last year some sort of attempt was made to
prevent the sweating of children of the school age
by a provision that no one should employ children
under 13 years of age during school hours. This,
miserly inadequate as it was, was objected to by
the members of the Leg. Council. Those fat,
comfortable representatives of Property moaned
over the case of “ the poor producer ” who
would not be able to make use of his children
in the orchard, the vineyard, or on the dairy
farm. One smug churchman now on the
hunt for a bishopric in England—told a beautiful
story of how he once called at a farmhouse for
some strawberries, and the farmer, and his wife,
and his eight children went about the work of
gathering the strawberries for his lordly self. It
gladdened his heart, he said, to see such a thing.
The story was loudly cheered, and what the 48 Rich
Landlords really meant by their cheers was that
this method of picking strawberries enabled their
fellow member to buy them more cheaply than if the
labor employed in picking had been properly paid
for. That is a consideration which can always be
relied upon to impress Victorian Leg. Councillors.
Emphatically the State ought to prevent parents
sapping the vitality of their children by over-
working them on farms. The stupid argument is
sometimes used that the parent is accumu-
lating wealth for “ the sake of his children.” And
for that end he is to stunt them body and mind ?
If a parent wishes to leave a worthy heritage to
his children he will see to their health, build up
their character and have their brains well trained.
Every parent who does not strive to properly
equip his children with all the mental and physical
vigor possibleis possessed of the anti-social instinct
of the criminal, and snould be treated as such.
These children cry to us with the voice given to
them by Elizabeth Browning—
How long, how long, O cruel nation,
Will you stand, to move the world, on a child’s heart—
Stifle down with a mailed heel its palpitation,
And tread onward to your throne amid the mart ?
The only way to meet the mailed heel of avarice
and greed is with the mailed fist of the Law.
Factory-owners are not allowed to work children
under a certain age, and why should the same law
not apply to parents and employers of labor on
farms ? The same reason for restriction obtains
—that arduous labor in childhood nips true man-
hood and womanhood in the bud.
♦ .
The U.S. Example.
Just at present it is the fashion to quote the
United States as an example that Australia should
follow in cutting down its absurdly cumbrous
system of Government, the usual idea being to
compare the cost of Federal and State Govern-
ment in Australia, with the cost of Federal Govern-
ment only in the U.S., and then wave both arms
and whoop blindly. The energetic George D. Meu-
DELL, who is less accurate here than on most
matters, has been especially violent on this subject.
As a matter of fact the United States is rather a
horrible example to be avoided than a beacon
to serve for guidance. Its 76,000,000 people
are governed by about 100 Houses of Legislature,
with about 50 Governors and as many full-blown
judicial systems. It has between 7000 and 8000
paid legislators. Its 447 Federal representatives
receive £lOOO a year each, also lOd. a mile for the
journey to Washington and the same amount home
again, and £25 a year for stationery. Some of the
States are utterly crazy in their excess of govern-
ment. New Hampshire, with about 412,000 people
(a little more than South Australia) is run by
two State houses of legislature, comprising
about 345 members, who receive 12s. 6d. a
day while in session, and who may sit all
the year round if they please. This is in
addition to its four Federal members at £lOOO a
year—who cost not much less than S.A.’s 13.
Connecticut (908,000 people—a good deal less than
the population of Victoria) has six Federal and
about 273 State members. Vermont (343,000
people —or less than S.A.’s figure) has four
Federal and 270 State members, latter at
the Yankee equivalent of 12s. 6d. a
day. Nevada with 42,000 people (less than a
quarter the population of Tasmania) has three
Federal members (about £l,lOO a year each
including travelling expenses) and two houses of
State Legislature, consisting of 60 members at
295. a day while in session, and there are many
other horrible examples. And this is in addition
to a most complete, elaborate, and costly system
of local government. Canada, where most of the
provinces are run by one cheap State House of
Parliament, is an example to be followed; but
the United States system is calculated to break
this embarrassed country in a year. The U.S.
economises on the salaries of its President,
Judges, and ambassadors, but in the matter
of its politicians it is a very drunk country,
indeed.
+ .
The Jenkins Policy.
S. Australia is too dead-tired to be a political
partisan. A big man like Kingston could rouse
up a fair part of the electors ; but as she hasn’t
any big man in her State politics now, or even a
middling man, and no newspaper that will talk
above a whisper, there seems no hope that she
will be roused over this election. Too indolent or
too indifferent to think out political problems, her
people drop into the belief that they will be on
the safe side by voting for “respectable men” of
no particular opinions themselves. They want
“damned neuters,” and no doubt they will get
them, for nine times out of ten a country gets just
the sort of Parliament and Government it deserves.
And Jenkins, the Premier, knows his public. He
served an apprenticeship to book-canvassing and
learned the business through and through. That
is to say, he learned how to sum up people, and
learned how to tickle them when they wanted
tickling,, and how to stroke them along the fur
when they felt that way. So, knowing his public,
the successor of democratic, fighting Kingston
leaves Kingston’s policy in his bag and brings
out instead old John Downer’s Rest-and-Quiet
policy. He fires no guns, lets off no rockets.
South Australia can slumber on as far as he is
concerned; and as South Australia is sleepy,
Jenkins with the Rest-and-Quiet policy looks
like the man it wants—and it will deserve the
sort of Jenkins that it gets. If he could let the
finances slide as well as everything else he pro-
bably would, but he can’t do that altogether;
and when he deals with them he comes nearest
to making a noise. Last year South Australia
had a deficit of £20,000, though it was a
remarkably good year as years go in that State,
mainly on. account of the boom in the Barrier
trade. This year the deficit will be £150,000, or
about £2 per head for every adult male. That
was a little startling ; but Jenkins had his “com-
forter 9 to pop into the mouth of the infant when
it showed signs of squalling. “’Sh-’sh !* said
Jenkins, or Jenkins’ Treasurer, “ that’s nothing.
It won t hurt. We’ve driven off lots of worse
bogeys than that.” And they ran off this list
(quoted from Adelaide daily papers of April 4): —
-Although the deficiency of £120,000 to £150,000, which
tne .Premier estimates will terminate the present financial
year on June 30, may seem a large sum when viewed in
tne light of recent experiences, much larger amounts
have appeared on the wrong side of the national balance-
sheet in former years, without disturbing the public
peace of mind. Thus, in 1882-3, there was a deficiency in
SS/SK 8 of £133,000 ; 1883-4, £360,000 ; 1884-5,
£272,000 ; 1885-6, £lOl,OOO ; 18S6-7, £295,000. Then came
a series of surpluses, until 1892-3, when there was a
S °/.,f 2 /£: 000 ,’i 804 - 5 > £99,000 ; 1897-8, £32,000 ; and
ii When the accumulated deficit reached
£1,100,000, m Mr. Pla.vford’s time, Treasury Bills were
authorised by Parliament to be issued to that amount.
Of course ! How stupid of them not to have
thought of that before. “Broke” when the
Ireasurer still had a cheque-book half full !—and
they dozed off again to the lullaby of Jenkins
crooning to them of their enormous resources,
their undeveloped national wealth, their undis-
covered Bendigos and Ballarats and Kalgoorlies.
So they nod through the campaign, just waking
up enough to ask about the “ respectability” of a
candidate, and for the rest liking that sort best
that kicks up the least dust. Poor old South
Australia !
- *
These Public Service Increments.
The hog-like incapacity of N.B. W. Public Service
Board weighs on the service like a nightmare.
Here is another sample of its incompetency. The
professional division of the service is higher than
the clerical division. Its work is supposed to re-
quire special knowledge— often special scientific
knowledge—while that of the clerical division is
more or less mechanical. Therefore, the profes-
sional division is better paid—or it was.
The members of the Public Service
Board are themselves mostly of the clerical
variety. They apparently feel quite able
to size up the value of the purely mechanical
work, but not to value any other kind. When
the clerical and professional divisions were formed
tne latter started off with the larger salaries.
Then a scheme of salary-increases for the clerical
division was drawn up. Next the board started
to draft a similar scheme for the professional
division, lost itself hopelessly trying to
decide what was a fair maximum rate
for all manner of scientific work that its
dull brain had never before heard of, and gave
it up. Years roll on ; the general division gets
its increase regularly; the higher and more
responsible professional division doesn’t, because
the Board hasn’t yet made up its mind. In
one Sydney office two youths joined the service
together. Ten years later the Board came along,
promoted Smith, as the brighter and more capable
of the two, to the professional division at £l3O a
year, and left the inferior Jones in the humbler
clerical division at £lOO. Smith was glad then;
he is feeling sorry now. Jones, the inferior man’
in the inferior billet, has risen gradually to £l5O.
Smith, the superior man in the superior billet,
still gets £l3O, and seems likely to get it for life’
because the Board can’t decide what to do. If
ever the Board is sandbagged going home at night
it is pretty safe to assume that the offender will
be found in the professional division of the
service.
♦
De Wet and Jones.
As showing how forgiving and conciliatory, not to
say condescending, English people are, a para-
graph beginning thus is now being circulated :
If General De Wet went to England at the close of the
war he would have an audience of the King, he would
breakfast with Balfour, Chamberlain would be closeted
with him in close confabulation, the military clubs would
give little dinners in his honor. He would receive from
English Society a reception such as an emperor might
envy.
That is quite true—assuming, of course, that the
war ended successfully for Britain. Then the
attitude would be : “ This is the splendid general
and heroic fighter whom we beat badly because
we could fight even better. Look at him—our
trophy—Exhibit A, in fact.” The British gave
Soult a great reception—he was in the same
situation. They would probably have done the
same to Washington. Though he came out on
top in the end he lost most of his battles with the
British, and the magnificent distances of
Washington’s country did more than anything
else to tire out George lll.’s forces. But what
kind of reception would await the man who beat the
British hopelessly at their own game ! The only
example that the writer can remember in recent
times was Commodore Paul Jones. Jones was
in the American service along with Washington,
and the only difference lay in the fact that while
the British generally licked Washington, they
were always licked by Jones. He established a
reign of terror on the seas ; he raged up and down
the British coasts, and every British naval officer
who fought with him got the worst of the deal,
even when two large British ships fell on his one
small craft together. In the matter of fighting
against all odds Nelson wasn’t a patch upon this
lonesome, one-ship admiral. And he is described
in British histories to this day as 44 the pirate,
Paul Jones.” Even now, after nearly 100 years’
if Jones’s ghost went to England he would pro-
bably be received with a brick instead of a public
dinner. Yet he treated his prisoners well, and
though he looted one peer’s mansion he repented
and sent back the plunder—which Ketchener
never did. So very few men have beaten the
British hopelessly, and especially against heavy
odds, at either sea or land fighting that it is diffi-
cult to say if Jones, the “pirate,” is a fair sample
of British sentiment or not. But even now
Britain has got Jones on its mind rather badly.
In that respect it is quite as ungenerous as any
other country. Every country has some Jones or
other on its mind. .
4
News came from Fiji a few days ago that the
release had been ordered of two natives who were
sentenced to terms of imprisonment without trial
and without being informed of the charge brought
against them, for advocating the annexation of the
Fiji group by Maoriland, and procuring signa-
tures to an annexation petition. The fact was
chronicled in all the Respectable papers of Aus-
tralia, and in not one was there a word of comment
on British methods of dealing with the native races.
Judging by the accounts which reach here from
the islands, the aborigines enjoy in Fiji most of
the elements of a first-class hell upon earth. Com -
pulsory labor, confiscation of native lands, im-
prisonment for long terms without trial, and all
the elements of practical slavery are the chief
features of the case. The unpardonable sin,
however, appears to be for a native to favor the
proposed union with Maoriland, and thereby
show his dissatisfaction with the powers that be— '
that seems to be good for almost anything
short of life imprisonment. A weird yarn
recently in circulation concerned two men who
had served their sentences for this offence
described largely as “conspiring to disturb the
peace of the colony,” and who, it was alleged, were


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
of the United States.
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDING 81st DECEMBER, 1901.
ASSETS
INCREASE IN ASSETS
SURPLUS
INCREASE IN SURPLUS .. .. .. „
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE ..
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1900 by
£68.966,608
£5,508,678
£14,797,717
£1,039,973
£245,682,651
£13,000,350
£8,088,718
LOCAL DIRECTORS:
Sir WM. M'MILLAN, K.0.M.G., Chairman; Hori. C. K. MACKELLAR, M.B MLO •
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
F. O. COLLEY, Secretary.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F;S.S.,
Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
Eye comfolt!
mmm
Is yours if you come here for
your glasses. We’ll test your
eyes FREE, and advise glasses
ONLY when absolutely neces-
sary. n.b.— Post Test sent
Free to any country address.
WOOD, THE
299
Ceorge-st.
OPTICIAN
Note ONLY Address— 299 George-st., Sydney
(Top of Hdnter-st. in George-st.)
and Equitable Buildings, Elizabeth-st., Melbourne
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY
met on landing home again with a new sentence
of several years more for the alleged offence they
had just expiated, the idea apparently being that
otherwise they might resume their agitation for a
better form of government. Maoriland papers
tell, quaint tales of British administration in
Fiji—tales which, if a German paper told them,
would make Maoriland demand immediate war
with the sour-krout country.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “As You Like It."
Town Hall Amy Castles’ Concerts.
Railway Station Fitzgeralds’ Circus.
Lyceum “ The Span of Life."
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Empire “ Alhambra Girl."
Palace World’s Entertainers.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ Dr. Bill.”
Her Majesty’s “ Dorothy.”
Theatre Royal “ Greed of Gold."
Bijou “ The Wrong Mr. Wright."
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
Sydney Royal re-opens after its long
silence, with J. C. Williamson as lessee, and
Miss Janet Waldorf as Rosalind in “ As You Like
It.” That Shakespearian (or Baconian) comedy
is a trifle hackneyed, and it seems almost a pity
that the new lady did not open her career in some-
thing fresher. Nowadays only about half-a-dozen
of the plays of the Immortal Bard are produced
with any frequency, and the rest moulder between
the Bard’s two boards practically forgotten. Even
the beautiful “Midsummer Night’s Dream ” is a
very rare proceeding, yet it isn’t nearly so dead as
some of Shakespeare’s works. The new company
is supposed to appear for a brief season of barely
two weeks, but possibly, if general request arises
and asserts itself with a sufficiently loud clamour,
it may be induced to relieve for a little while
longer the monotony of much variety-show and
not much of anything else from which Sydney has
been suffering.
** * *
Sydney Palace promises some excellent
new turns for this Saturday (April 19th.) Bunth
and Rudd, whose appearances were before stopped
by illness, come back to do a new comedy act.
Misses Rose Hamilton and Ada Willoughby, with
a full chorus, are billed for “The Merry World,”
a comic operetta, and another attractive musical
novelty is promised. In addition, Salerno and all
the other heavy artillery of the present programme
will be retained.
** * *
“ The Spatt'bf Life ” continues its erratic
career at Sydney Lyceum, where the wild waves
dash against the lighthouse walls as satisfactorily
as ever, and the wrappers of the Arab chiefs are
as spotless as on the opening night. The abnorm-
ally spotless soul of the hero and the equally spot-
less wrappers of the Eastern potentates, after they
have climbed innumerable jagged rocks and torn
themselves on many prickly creepers, are alike
remarkable. The “ Span ” has been running for
a good many weeks now, but nothing definite has
yet been heard regarding any change of pro-
gramme.
** * *
The Cosgtoves speculated in “ Dr. Bill ”
at Sydney Empire last Saturday, and with a fair
amount of success, judging from the Empire
standard. Anyway, they were pleased with
themselves, for the most of them came out and
walked before the curtain at the end of Act I. in
spite of the curtain occasionally getting in the
road and showing a deplorable tendency to pre-
cipitate an Empire star or two on the footlights.
In another interval a chief actor put his head round
and genially kissed his hand to the audience.
Presumably it was meant for the audience gener-
ally, and not for any particular girl in the
audience. Favorable mention may be made of
J. P. West and Georgie Leighton, in an old man
and an old woman part respectively, and modified
disapproval of most of the other people. The
weary old idea of shutting characters up in the
wrong rooms is better exploited in “Dr. Bill”
than in most dramas that hinge on this notion.
In this kind of play the stage drawing-room has
most of the other rooms opening from it, including,
as in “ Dr. Bill,” a bathroom. It may not be cus-
tomary for the bathroom to open out of the
drawing-room in real life, but any room can open
off any other room on the stage.
** * *
Fitzgerald Brothers changed their circus-
programme last Saturday to some extent. The
Lion and Elephant duet is dispensed with, and in
place of the blase king of beasts with the big, tired
yawn, tigress Batty rides horse Bobby around the
caged - arena. The new performance begins
with the Grand Cavalcade of mediaeval-look-
ing horsemen, led by Mdlle. Millie Dagmar
in a red-furred riding-habit; after which a
pony whose silver mane looks like an
advertisement for someone’s hair - restorer,
does some trick work, and the “ Aerial Marvel,”
Anzeleto, walks a ladder upside down. Anzeleto
holds on to existence by his teeth, and finishes
with a “Marvellous Slide for Life,” wherein some
of the interest lies in the possibility of the gentle-
man with the “z” in his name being strangled
as he shoots from one end of the arena to the
other. Pony Commodore and La Belle Rose, of
performing globe fame, do their old acts, and
Clive Harmer, who introduces the well-dressed
dogs, is also responsible for a Hurricane
Hurdle Act. Hadji Tabar, the “ Arab Wonder,”
the Tylers, and some other people help
along the rest of the show. Hadji’s speciality
consists in turning 50 somersaults on one spot,
which the advt. declares to be the greatest feat
ever known in show business. This is one of the
points on which expert opinion is valuable. To
the mere layman it might seem just as wonderful
to turn 25 somersaults on one spot and 25 on
another, and the turning of the whole 50 on one
spot might only suggest a want of variety on
Hadji’s part.
** * *
Callahan and Mack, who made a first ap-
pearance at the Tivoli on Monday night, present
an artistic vignette of Irish peasant life. Ad-
mirably acted, enlivened with music from “the
real old Irish pipes,” the “ turn ” depends for its
success on no low, or even broad, comedy, but on
refined humor with a slight flavoring of pathos.
Another newcomer at this theatre is Miss Maud
Hewson, a Maoriland contralto of some distinc-
tion.
** * *
Newbury-Spada farewelled to an immense
audience on Saturday night. The robust tenor
was at the apex of his vocal condition, and
amongst the pearls cast before the crowded audi-
ence (and reverently received) were “In Native
Worth,” “SpiritoGentil,”and his share in the duet
in the Faust Garden Scene. ” Madame also, though
complaining of fatigue, sang delightfully. In the
“ ten minutes rest ” the artists were farewelled
behind the organ by a troop of well-wishers. The
tenor remarked, by the way, that our organ is no
longer the biggest in the world. Cologne takes
that honor now.
** * *
The critic who is not under the necessity
of covering up the trail of unforgotten predictions
can have no doubts about the voice of Amy Castles.
He can hear that she is on the right track, and
has traversed it such a distance that she isn’t very
likely to go wrong. But the musically-primitive
thousands, who went delirious over her (with
£4OOO as the net result) three years ago do not yet
know what to make of their Amy. The trouble
is that she has not gone quite far enough along the
track. “ Soulfulness ” has to be tightly reined,
lest it should run amok and destroy technique.
The people who used to rave when Miss Castles
threw back her head like a bird and let a large
unmodulated voice gush forth, expected her to do
exactly the same thing again. If she had been
the same old Amy, without a bit of improvement
in her voice, they would have been better pleased
than now. She still poises her throat, canary
fashion, just once and again, reserving the
graceful trick for brilliant trills and caden-
zas, but she does not give them the same-
sized voice all the time, whilst she is not
experienced enough to make those great points
which count with the people for “soul ” in sing-
ing. It is possible to be an artist without making
those points at all, but it is quite impossible to be
a popular one. Therefore the musician approves
Amy, and the people who used to adore her,
principally women of the suburban-piano instinct,
are at a loss. Take “ Home Sweet Home ”as she
sang it at her first two concerts at Melbourne
Town Hall. The remarkable sympathetic quality
in her voice, mistaken by one or two individuals
for the vocal intensity of a “ true dramatic
soprano,” used to make that song a delight for
the multitude. But the gauche girl in short frocks
might as well have been singing a song of a
crockery soup-tureen, just bought from an un-
poetically fat shopkeeper in the Eastern Market,
for all the intrinsic emotion she put into it. Now
her voice retains its sympathy, and her mind has
grown emotional, and this is the one song that
she sings with a sob in every word of it, but her
emotion gets the upper hand, and she is neither
so artistically satisfying as at other times, nor so
captivating to the crowd. Because Amy is not
the flashy vocal-organist who “performs” with
all the stops out, many feel that they have lost
something. Precisely where the loss comes in
they don’t know, or are not candid enough to say.
* * * *
To put the matter a little more plainly, a
comparison is necessary. Amy Castles has much
in oommon with the delightful Trebelli. Her
voice is very similar in its dominant quality, soft,
caressing, “ velvety ”; but it will be a bigger
voice when she has it under truer command, and
it has possibilities far greater in the way of
brilliant, world-captivating use. In one aria only,
Ophelia’s mad scene from “Hamlet,” has she
hinted at the things she is capable of doing. If
Amy Castles is to be properly understood by all who
listen to her, that fine burst of song should be her
nightly salutation to her audience. She is not a
dramatic soprano, because she never was one, but
that mad song grips and holds the listener at
tension. She does not shriek it agonisingly after
the manner of the usual Italian prima donna,
but she sings as though her heart teems
with melody. Nothing has been heard here more
pure and golden and young than her exquisite
cascade of sound in the rich cadenza of
this song. It has been said that Amy Castles
had not the brains to help her to more than
mediocrity. She effectually silences that asser-
tion. If she possessed merely the one qualifica-
tion of executive ability that she snows in
Ophelia’s song, it would still be a marvel to
musicians how the little woman has been able to
secure such comparative perfection after two
years, or a little more, of study. She must be a
remarkably hard worker, with a set determination
to justify the fuss her compatriots made of her.
She is true as to intonation, hits every note
straight from the shoulder, as it were, and every
one is worth money to hear. In Gounod’s “ Jeru-
salem,” taken from a shelved opera, and sung at
her second concert, she found it necessary to
“ feel ” for a big note, and fell a trifle short of the
right tone. That was the only blemish upon a
song in which she went close to the success of her
“ Hamlet ” excerpt, but in a more subtle manner.
* * * •
Dani is rather too big and well- “ trained ”
a gun to fire off at the same time as the youthful
Victorienne. He is well acquainted with the
devices which are necessary to convince most
people that he has “soul.” His resounding top
C in the Salve Dimora, for instance, is magmfi-
cent, but it is not true art, because it does not tell
what the composer wished to have told. Sounds
like blasphemy, but in Italy they would probably
whistle Dani off for singing anything but the
softest whisper just there. Amy Castles doesn’t
know the people in front of her well enough to
play similarly upon their desire for magnifi-
cent sounds. Her duets with Dani, however,
are surprising proofs of her development.
The Traviata duet, which they sang at the
first concert, is a technical trap for the unwary,
but the girl with a couple of years tuition timed
her singing to the fraction of a beat, and acquitted
herself with spontaniety and ease. Verily, she
hath brains.
* * * *
But Amy Castles has leagues of work ahead
of her before she can lay claim to a place in the
topmost branches of the tree of song, and satisfac-
tory as voice-culturist Bouhy has been, there are
some faults about her singing for which that able
Frenchman is immediately responsible. Amy’s
French is unassailable, and she revels in singing
it; her Italian is passable ; and her English only
so-so. When she wants to sing “ place,” she gets
lamentably near pronouncing it “ plice,” an old
trouble ineradicable; and her middle notes are
sometimes nasal. In addition, she showed a
painful lack of discrimination when she chose
the tinpot “ When we Meet ” (discarded by even
the suburban boarding-house lady’s daughter) as
an encore number. She certainly sings the thing
delectably, but that is insufficient excuse. As for
the other people on the Castles programmes,
clever Una Bourne is devoting herself too much
to mere manual feats on the piano, but does them
divinely ; and Nora M‘Kay (a Queensland damsel
in her teens) handles her violin brilliantly, and
thoroughly deserves the prominence given her at
short notice by director Benno Scherek.
** * *
“ Greed of Gold,” which took the floor at
Melb. Royal last Saturday, is seemingly a panto-
mime melodrama in four excruciating acts. “ A
scoundrel who stops at nothing ” supplies the tale
with one fatal crime, likewise numerous other
crimes that would be fatal if be carried them to a
rational conclusion, but his habit of wasting
murderous opportunities is the ruin of him in the
end. The pantomime honors are divided between
a dumb man, who is also a brother, and a caged
apparition in an opium den. This latter professes
to be a bloodthirsty ourang-outang, or a gorilla.
Its business in the opium den is to stick a knife
into the heart, lungs and liver of any human
person other than the resident Chow or the
principal scoundrel. The alleged animal, however,
proves itself unworthy of its great trust by stabbing
the Chow and permitting Robt. Inman to live on.
Also, it neglects to kill the infant heir to the pro-
perty, consequently the audience loses respect for
dumb animals, and the gallery expresses no sur-
prise when the silent brother recovers his lost
power of speech, and proves his innocence at the
Central Criminal Court. There is no visible
reason why the dumb witness should resort to
pantomime tactics in his affliction when he might
talk on his fingers, or impart information to his
friends with a lead-pencil. All the same, he is a
refreshing joke. The homicidal monkey, whose
name doesn’t appear on the bill, is supported by
George Carey, H. Willard, Miss Duggan and co.
—and very ably supported in some cases. The
scenery and supers, indicate a managerial deter-
mination to keep “ Greed of Gold ” going for
some time. Nevertheless this is a dull world
where the best jokes are sometimes the least
appreciated.
** * *
The Brough Co., at the Princess’s, will
appear to-night (Thursday) and to-morrow in
“ The Tyranny of Tears,” a comedy that bears the
name of Haddon Chambers on the title page, and
is suspected of being partly due to the late Oscar,
the Outcast. Anyhow, it is a peculiarly neat and
brilliant work. Melbourne warmed to “The
Tyranny of Tears ” some two years ago when the
Broughs were not advertising their retirement
from the Australian stage, and now that they are
really understood to be playing the little master-
piece in question for the very last time the public
ought to rush the show. But probably the rush
will not happen. Thusfar the Brough season has
not appealed to the mob in general, therefore the
management gravely announces a revival of “ Dr.
Bill” for Saturday. % “Dr. Bill” is not a high-
class comedy in any respect, but a frank, unre-
strained farce radiating from a certain Kangaroo
Dance. The company will try the effect of that
historical marsupial gambol for six nights.
** m *
Meanwhile, the rapid American tale of
“Wrong Mr. Wright” continues to supply a
want at the Bijou. It is remarked that manager
Geach doesn’t place “Wright” under any old
accepted heading. In a youthful new-century
spirit, he describes the show as a boon and an
innovation, likewise a craze to be yelled at. The
whole duty of man in this case is to yell.
** * *
“ A Runaway Girl,” notwithstanding the
new songs and the somewhat naughty ballet, is
leaving Her Majesty’s on Friday. After that
comes, not “The Mikado,” as stated last week,
but Cellier’s “ Dorothy,” the only opera in which
a baritone young man ever stood outside the closed
door of his best girl’s sleeping apartment wanting
to know why she condemned him to wait for the
morrow. “Dorothy” will run for the last nine
nights of the opera season, and she should run
well. The hunting chorus at the end of the second
act ought to be a glorious success, partly on
account of its rousing musical character, and also
because the Williamsonian chorus still includes
one very plump veteran huntsman whom many
fathers of the rising generation remember with
gratitude, and are now looking forward to with
tears in their eyes.
** * *
The Lenton Trio, who throw hats in a
world-renowned manner, are the latest re-arrivals
at Rickards’ Opera House. Their previous arrivals
were so many years ago that this arrival is equal
to new. Lotty of the Limelight, and the Permans,
the scientific ball-puncher, and other people, are
proceeding as before, but something “ new and
unique” is to be introduced next Saturday by
Barney Fagan and Henrietta Byron.
#* * *
The Musgrove Co., under the guidance of
Mascotte Tommy Hudson, has just broken all
Hobart records. Following hard on the heels of
the Broughs, when Hobart might reasonably be
supposed to be stone broke, the co. staged “Sweet
Nell of Old Drury” and turned away money
every night for over a week. Nellie Stewart and
her wonderful hat simply knocked the simple
villagers silly, and they found the money to pay
for yet another view of it with a persistency that
made manager Hudson’s smile much easier to
jump over than walk round. When Nellie Drury
waved her marvellous head-gear from the window
of the Lord Chief-Justice’s sedan chair for the last
time, the audience rose at her and demanded more,
regardless of cost. “Moths” and “A Royal
Rival” scooped up the last remaining shekels in
the Flyspeck’s capital, and the eo. is understood to
be making towards Adelaide with the loot.
The Wild Cat Column.
Dry Dog : The life assurance office you mention
ranks about eleventh in point of soundness among the
offices doing business in Australasia. You can do much
better.
* * * *
There are not wanting signs that Maoriland, to
which the Seddon Government, since its Boer blood-
drunkenness came upon it, pays comparatively little
attention nowadays, has nearly reached the top of its
present wave of prosperity, and a movement downwards
may be looked for. That is to say, such a movement may
be looked for unless the Seddon Government can tear its
attention away from contingents, and devote a little of
its time to its own country'—the place that pays its salary
and contributes to its greatness. The visible symptoms
that something is wrong are a huge falling-away in agri-
culture, a slight decrease in pastoral industry, and an
enormous increase in borrowing. Apparently there is
less self-reliance and a greater tendency to live on loans.
Whether there is sufficient increase in manufacturing
industries to counteract any of these losses it is
impossible, in the absence of any published statistics
since 1896, to say. Here are some significant figures:
Maoriland Agricultural and Pastoral Statistics.
Acres Yie,d < bushels -
Year to of Wheat, Oats,
under crop. Barley & Maize) _ oa^ e a " d
March, 1897.. 1,773,673 (No complete) 21,076,339
„ 1898.. 1,844,090 \ Returns. / 21,135,724
„ 1899.. 2,009,251 32,076,091 20,809,645
„ 1900.. 1,732,752 27,162,771 20,819,716
„ 1901.. 1,578,958 27,143,339 20,878,120
Both agriculturally and pastorally things are worse than
they were in 1898, though the high prices which exports
realised last year (prices which were, to some extent, the
result of the war) have prevented the decline being felt
as yet. In the matter of borrowing (almost entirely
foreign borrowing) things have gone grievously to the
bad of late :
Maoriland Loan Expenditure.
Year to
March, 1891 .. £398,817
„ 1892 .. 518,348
„ 1893 .. 488,781
„ 1894 .. 852,275
„ 1895 .. 600,657
„ 1896 .. 972,195
Year to
March, 1897 .. £1,089,590
„ 1898 .. 1,134,812
„ 1899 .. • 1,543,683
„ 1900 .. 1,571,604
„ 1901 .. 1,746,141
In 1901 only two of the States of Australasia borrowed
more extravagantly than Maoriland in proportion to
population, and only two showed a worse record in the
way of applying their loans to public works not directly
productive of revenue :
Loan Expenditure, 1901.
Spent on Unpro-
Per head. ductive Works—
per head.
Westralia .. .. £8 6 0 .. £1 12 2
Queensland .. .. 288 .. 172
Maoriland .. .. 2 5 9 1 5 3
New South Wales.. 2 2 2 .. 0 16 5
Tasmania .. .. 111 11 .. 018 5
South Australia .. 1 3 5 .. 0 8 3
Victoria .. .. 0 15 8 .. 053
Furthermore, the surplus of exports over imports, the
surplus which pavs interest on the State’s extraneous
debt, fell from £3,198,000 in 1899, to £2,600,000 in 1900.
Barring the drop in agriculture and the huge increase in
borrowing these are not very large things, but taken all
together they suggest that the old policy of self-reliance
is gradually being abandoned, and that the inevitable bad
results begin to show themselves.
• * * *
The cohentingenting industry appears to be fast
undermining Australasian agriculture. It is the man on
the land who supplies the bulk of the fighting material,
and when he leaves his own crop to go and burn some-
body else’s the effect must appear somewhere. Three of
the returns which follow refer to wheat area only— the
Maoriland and Tasmanian ones deal with total cultivated
area ; but despite this discrepancy the figures are valu-
able. When full returns are supplied the position will be
worse, for other crops have diminished as well as wheat:
Maoriland (decline in cultivated area
within 2 years) 430,293 acres.
Victoria (decline in wheat area within
2 years) ... .. 412,529 ~
S.A. (decline in wheat area within 1
year) 169,795 „
N.S.W. (decline in wheat area within
1 year) 143,175 „
Tasmania (decline in cultivated area
within 2 years) 34,190 ~
These are the latest available statistics in each case.
Queensland and Westralia showed no falling off last year,
and this year’s returns are not in yet. Well-watered
Tasmania and Maoriland have lost a larger propor-
tion of their cultivation than dry S.A. and N.S.W., so
the trouble can’t be set down to drought. In every case
it began since the cohentingent disease started, which
suggests that it is directly traceable, in part at least, to
the loss of agricultural population. And it is a big
disaster —about one ninth of the country’s agriculture
has disappeared inside two years.
• * • •
A brief cablegram from Maoriland state's that
the Bank of New Zealand, for the year ended 31st March,
finds itself in a position to pay its shareholders a 5 per
cent, dividend—the first since the beginning of 1894,
when a similar dividend was declared—and also to pay
£150,000 to the bank’s Assets Realisation Board (the con-
cern to which the bad assets were transferred some years
ago) in reduction of its deficiency. The amount of the
profits are not stated, but in 1901 the bank made a net
profit of £210,665, and when the loss made by the Assets
Realisation Board was deducted, the net profit of the
joint concern for the year to March, 1901, was
£188,480. These are splendid figures when compared
with the shareholders’ capital of £421,860, amounting to
over 40 per cent. Presumably the figures are even better
this year. The bank and Assets Realisation Board
together, during six years of State management up to


m
TRA.MWA.YS. XRA.MWAYS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material.
Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p. ~*l
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel Sleepers
Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical advice gratuitously
rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Catalogues and Photo-
[graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different parts of the World unon
application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
ALf OZMINSKY, 106 Queen-street, Melbourne,
■ having returned from his visit to England, is
now prepared to purchase approved Mines and Mining:
Properties situated in any part of Australasia re-
quiring: Capital for Development and Machinery.
Only genuine and legitimate ventures, capable of bearing
the strictest examinations, will be entertained.
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.*
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c.,of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work.*
* ♦ * *
City Leader, July, 1901: “We can only say,
as before, that for security and reliability the Colonial
Mutual takes a high place in the insurance world.”*
» * *
Mr. A. Gilfillan, B.Sc., C.E. (Edin.), Mining
and Metallurgical Engineer, Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne, is leaving for London about April next, for
the purpose of establishing a London office, and attending
to the flotation of approved mining and o.ther proposi-
tions. Before leaving Mr. Gilfillan will visit the various
colonies for the purpose of inspecting any options which
may be offered. Correspondence invited from mine
owners who have properties worth handling.*
* * * •
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * • •
See for yourself. The Australian Medical
Gazette of January, 1891, compares Zetz Spa to the cele-
brated Vichy waters of France, and states that it is
valuable for gout, rheumatism, gravel, catarrh of the
bladder, diabetes, dyspepsia, splenic and hepatic dis-
orders.
* * * •
Vanning Tables. —The very newest and what
gives exceedingly fair promise of superseding all other
tables is the machine known as the Wesley-Baird Vanning
Table. The table is of South Australian invention, ana
has given excellent results on Broken Hill ores and ores
containing pyrites, carbonate of copper and tin. Like all
tables, the best work is done on “ fines,” and more espe-
cially when the product is properly classified. The
Central Mining and Tramway Co., of 424 Little Collins-
street, Melbourne, and 40 Hunter-street, Sydney, are the
sole agents in the Eastern States. The table has a capa-
city up to 30 tons per day.*
* * • •
The Austral Otis Engineering Co.’s tender for
the supply of nearly a million arc lamps of Conradty’s
manufacture has been accepted by the City Council of
Melbourne. The same co. has also been entrusted with
the supply of the Launceston City Council’s requirements
of arc lamp carbons.*
* * * *
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* • • «
In their annual review of the wool - trade,
Winchcombe, Carson and Co. point out that during the
past season, for the first time, over one million bales of
wool have been sold in Australasian markets. They
estimate the total Australasian clip for the year at
1,650,000 bales, worth £16,480,000.
• * * •
Newman, M.P., has been crowing loudly on his
Lucknow dunghill. For the fifth time his admiring
English friends have given him a chance to resurrect the
mines from the ashes left by other managers, and the
riches which he is going to reveal will make the glories of
the past pale into insignificance. But he will find that
Collins’ record takes a lot of beating.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100 %
Zinc Shaving, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges.
Hy. Markwald
178 William-streafc,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st. .Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; V Eajle-streel,
Britb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, a>vJ
Auckland, NZ.
March, 1901, improved its position from a loss of £8535
in ’96 to a profit of £188,480 in 1901. It paid £75,000
out of earnings for the purchase of the Colonial Bank,
and paid £3)0,231 off the losses of the old private
management. The present payment should wipe off all
the known losses of the Assets Realisation Board, though
doubtless there will be further losses on the securities
still unsold. But a very few more years should put both
concerns on an absolutely sound footing.
* * * *
The Union Trustee Co. (Melbourne) shows a
slight increase of earnings this year, but as the manage-
ment has promptly increased the dividend to more than
consume the increased earnings, no real progress is made
—apart from the fact that the Investment Fluctuation
Reserve has grown somewhat. This latter has no visible
connection with the earnings. Apparently it was created
in the first place—though there is very little available
infor nation—by writing up to their market value certain
securities that had been purchased at a low rate, and it
increases, or decreases, seemingly, according as profits
are made from this source, or as losses have to be pro-
vided for. Therefore it is shown separately from the
general reserves, built up from accumulated profits :
« a
e o .
o <u cj
§ > ac 4 >
Profits. Dividends. S ® m 3 gj
c s ®a g
°«
Feb., 1892 .. £5616 6 per cent. = £4429 £2166
„ 1893.. 4306 6 ~ „ 4429 2043
„ 1894 .. 2797 4 „ „ 2953 1887
„ 1895 .. 3649 4 „ „ 2953 2583
„ 1896.. 655 2 „ „ 1476 1662
„ 1897 .. 2742 4 „ „ 2953 1451 £2789
„ 1898 .. 3005 4 „ „ 2953 1503 674
„ 1899 .. 2299 4 „ „ 2953 849
„ 1900.. 1066 U ~ „ 1107 808 819
„ 1901.. 2722 3 V ~ „ 2584 946 306
„ 1902.. 2886 4 ~ „ 2953 879 1006
None of these figures are very cheerful. In seven out of
the last eleven years dividends, small as they were, have
exceeded earnings—they have done it so effectually that
the reserve has diminished from £2166 to £879. The
Union Trustees lumps commission and interest on invest-
ments together, so that it is impossible to say how much
is derived from either source, but it would appear from
the results that the co. lives mainly on the interest de-
rived from the investment of its own capital of £73,822,
and that the trustee business .yields little beyond work-
ing expenses.
The Union Trustee Co. lias a considerable gross
income. At the same time it pays the smallest divi-
dend bar one company (the Perpetual, of Melbourne) ;
it has the smallest reserve of accumulated profits ;
and it is the only company whose reserve is not
increasing, because even its respectable earnings are in-
sufficient to pay its very small dividend. Yet its expense
rate is not very high—it is higher than it should be, con-
sidering the limited nature of the trustee business, but it
is lower in proportion to earnings than that of some
highly progressive companies in its own line of busi-
ness. The explanation of this anomaly is simply
that the Union isn’t so much a trustee co. as a con-
cern which carefully invests its own capital, and sits
down and watches its progress. Its earnings are mostly
interest on its own capital. It has the biggest
capital of all the trustee co.’s save the Trustees,
Executors, and Agency 00., of Melbourne, and its
business isn’t nearly large enough to correspond. Its 4
per cent, dividend swallows more money than would pay
11 per cent, with either of the two Sydney companies, the
Queensland Trustees or the Equity (Melb.),'more than would
pay 9 percent, with the National (Melb.), or the Perpetual
(Melb.), and more than enough to pay 19 per cent, with
the Ballarat Trustees, or 29 per cent, with either of the
Tasmanian companies. This means some extra security
for the co.’s clients, but it doesn’t pay the shareholders.
* * * *
Perkins and Co., brewers, of Brisbane and
Toowoomba (Queensland), dating from the time when
the general clean-up was held, a portion of the capital
written off, and a new co. registered :
Pronto \ Dividends and „
Profits. 1 Divided Du( , y Reserves.
Feb., 1894 £12,086 5 per cent. = £3062 £9024
„ 1895 10,035 10 „ „ 6125 12,934
„ 1896 11,784 10 „ „ 6125 18,593
„ 1897 12,945 10 „ „ 6125 25,413
„ 1898 15,067 £l3 6/8 „ „ 8167 32,313
„ 1899 19,456 13 6/8 „ „ 8167 43,602
„ 1900 24,404 15 16/8 „ „ 9698 58,308
„ 1901 26,165 16 13/4 „ „ 10,208 74,265
„ 1902 28,496 18 6/8 „ „ 11,229 91,532
The reserves consist of reserve fund, £34,774 Is. Id., and
£56,758 odd of undivided profit. A year ago the reserve
fund stood at £28,609 7s. 4d., but an addition of £6164
13s. 9d. out of profits brings it up to the figure specified
above. Why Perkins and 00. deals in these aggravating
odd coppers, and keeps the bulk of its reserves in the
unsatisfactory form of an undivided balance, and why it
doesn’t make its reserve fund an even £90,000, and carry
£1532 forward, and why it has odd coppers in its dividend
instead of making it an even 15 or 18 or 20 per cent., are
all mysteries. Still a concern which is prospering so re-
markably, and which brews such good beer, may be
excused these little eccentricities. The paid-up capital
of Perkins and Co. is £58,333, so the reserves are much
larger than the capital nowadays—a position which
(speaking from memory) no other brewery co. has attained.
Also the dividend is (again sneaking from memory) the
largest in the Australian brewing business.
* • » •
It is reckoned that in the 27 months to 31st
March, 1902, the Commonwealth States borrowed rather
over £27,000,000—a little more than £1,000,000 a month.
This was New Debt—money borrowed to pay off old loans
isn’t counted!
» * * *
The South Australian Brewing Co. (Adelaide)
concluded a prosperous year on 28th February, 1902 :
Profits. Dividends. Wri i fcen Apparent
„ . off. Reserves.
Feb., 1897.. £7285
1898.. £20,244 7 p.c. =£17,500 £l7BB 8241
„ 1899.. 15,953 5„ = 12,500 3229 8465
„ 1900.. 21,233 5„ = 12,500 2083 15,115
„ 1901.. 23,468 5„ = 12,5(30 3468 22,615
„ 1902.. 22,506 5„ = 12,500 1250 31,371
The reserves are described as “apparent” for a very
sufficient reason. There is a paper or “ goodwill ” item
among the S.A. Brewing Co.’s assets—it is not stated
what it amounts to or what it is the goodwill of. The
largest asset reads all in one lump : “ Freehold and Lease-
hold Properties, Machinery, Plant, Rolling Stock, Good-
will, etc., £459,518.” And as goodwill is a purely bogus
asset—a thing that oply dwells in the mind and has no
visible existence—this amount, whatever it may be,
requires to be deducted from the above £31,371 to show
the actual reserves. If it amounts to more than that
figure then there are no reserves at all but a deficit of
unknown amount, though it is one which is being
steadily reduced. Goodwill items are always objectionable,
and when the amount is not disclosed they are specially
objectionable. Another feature is that the S.A. Brewing
co. makes no attempt to establish a permanent reserve
fund—its reserves are simply a balance carried forward.
Whether this means that the co. contemplates using them
to write off goodwill, or whether there is a possibility of
having to write off something else, or whether it is
merely a bad habit the management has got, doesn’t
appear. The co. has no reserve of cash or liquid securities
—in fact, it has an overdraft of £5294 ; and it carries a
heavy burden in its £200,000 of debenture debt, which
swallows up £lO,OOO a year in interest. It seems a highly -
prosperous co., despite these drawbacks ; still there is
good reason why the dividend should not rise beyond its
present moderate figure until the liabilities are consider-
ably reduced.
♦ • * •
The Australian Gras Light Co. (Sydney)
announces by advertisement that it is open to receive
tenders for £300,000 worth of debentures at 4 per cent.
The money is wanted to pay off 5 per cent, debentures
falling due in London. The security is about as good as
anything in this uncertain world can be, and it is grati-
fying to see this country’s aggregate liability to foreign
capitalists reduced by even this small amount.
Tenders are being invited for the purchase of
Queensland Treasury Bills to the amount of £530,000
to cover last year’s deficit. The price is fixed at
£lO2, but as half-a-year’s interest is due in July, it is
virtually par, the rate being 4 per cent. There is one
peculiarity about the issue worth noting. The deficiency
was £528,188, but included in this amount was the sum
of £75,000 paid on behalf of the Imperial Government for
local contingenter? serving in S’Africa, the actual deficit
therefore being about £450,000. This £75,000 has since
been repaid, but it was annexed as part of this year’s
revenue. Still, it belonged to last year, and, so far as last
year is concerned, the Philp Government is borrowing
£530,000 to cover a deficit of about £453,000. This
enables the Philp Government to get a little ahead —out
of loan money.
• * * •
The Melbourne Steamship Co., an affair of
which little is heard, but which is, in a comparatively
small way, one of the most prosperous shipping concerns
in Australasia, shows these results for the past year :
Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
June, 1901 ~ .. 10 per cent. = £3OOO .. £67,744
Dec., 1901 ..£16,701 .. 12£ „ „ 3750 .. 80,695
The reserves consist of insurance-reserve £30,000, depre-
ciation-reserve £.0,000, reserve for boilers and special
repairs £5OOO, and undivided profit £15,695 —total,
£80,695. The paid-up capital is only £60,000, so the
reserves are really the larger half of the concern —a rather
unusual position of affairs. The co. has over £22,000 of
accumulated cash in addition to its fixed and floating
assets.
■ * • •
Tiie destructive criticism levelled by Meudell,
of Melbourne, at South Australia’s finances (in common
with those of other States), aroused Opposition-leader
Darling—not to refute Meudell’s statements, but to
remark haughtily and with a loud “haw,” that “we
really ought not to trouble about this, but treat it with
contempt.” For an idiotically spendthrift community,
which is tottering on the verge of insolvency 7 , it is a great
deal easier to treat unpleasant truths with contempt than
to do anything else with them. South Australia—a coun-
try which never had a war to heap up its debt, and which
had a very handsome land revenue to supply money for
building its public works—at June, 1901, had the largest
debt per head on this earth. Queensland has since then
put on a fresh spurt and got in front again, but S.A. has
still the second largest debt in the world, and it will
probably secure front place once more. It owed last
June £l6 16s. 4d. per inhabitant that was not represented
by any reproductive works whatever. In all the world
outside Australasia there are only two, or at most three,
States whose total debt (productive and reproductive)
amounts to that. It has had 10 deficits in 19
years, and has kept out of the Insolvency Court
by converting nearly a million of them into
permanent debt. Among the high-tariff States of
Australasia it was the only one whose whole customs and
excise revenue wasn’t nearly sufficient to pay the interest
on its debt—in the other high-tariff States the tariff
revenue paid the interest and left a large surplus. Its
interest bill is the heaviest in the world in proportion
to population, bar Queensland’s. When a place in this
condition, with another big deficit announced as a
certainty, treats all objections to its financial doings with
a cold and god-like “haw,” it is a rather interesting
moral development.
* • • *
The Deddick (Vic.) railway mystery has risen
out of its grave. The mystery began with an offer by
certain persons, who may, or may not, have possessed
money, to build a railway 90 miles in length through a
hopelessly poor and almost wholly unpopulated country,
to a mineral field which is declared by the Mines Depart-
ment’s officials to be valueless —an opinion which miners
appear to share very enthusiastically. The syndicate
only asks for enough of the almost useless land to put the
railway on, and a lease of 1000 acres of the apparentl.v-
useless Deddick mineral field. If the railway 7 is built it
is almost certain that it will do no good to the syndicate,
for it can’t possibly pay for axle-grease, and it will do
little or no good to Victoria, for there is nothing to induce
any sane Victorian to live thereabouts —at least, that is
the vvriter’s general opinion, he having walked the track
in four days, and felt sorry for himself all the way. Even
if there were any sane Victorians thereabouts, it seems
nearly certain that the Deddick railway would shut
almost immediately after it opened, in which case they
wouldn’t benefit. A vague idea that the affair was a
joke or the work of a wealthy lunatic made the
Government ask for £lO,OOO deposit, and it is said that,
after two years, the syndicate has found the money and
say's it is ready to deposit it. This seems highly improb-
able, but even if it is a fact the Victorian Parliament had
better send the incomprehensible Deddick joke about its
business. The only visible way that any syndicate could
make money out of the business would be by selling the
concession to some person or persons who had never seen
the Deddick track, and to do that it would have to swear
that the country was very different from what it looked
like in this writer’s eyes. If the Government interfered
with a pessimistic account of Deddick the sellers might
call it a meddler, and if it didn’t the buyers might call it
an accomplice. And there are 999 chances in 1000 that
everybody concerned would think better of it and never
build any Deddick line, after all.
• * • •
More of the beauties of industrial life assurance.
This is how the business has panned out in Maoriland
for the three years 1898-9-1900, lumping all the companies
together:
1898. 1899. 1900.
Income (Premiums and Interest) £17,799 £20,520 £23,454
Paid to policy-holders (claims) 2,162 2,394 2,286
Expenses .. .. .. .. 13,431 12,570 13,545
Where does the miserable policy-holder come in ?
Almost the most outrageous financial proceeding
on earth is also in connection with this same industrial
life assurance business. The biggest life assurance office
in the British Empire is the Prudential (of England)
which does both ordinary .life and industrial business. Its
funds are over £40,000,000. It started 54 years ago with
a very small capital—less than £50,000 if the writer
remembers correctly. It has now £1,000,000 capital
and about £900,000 of reserves, and this stupendous
increase has been made by annexing the profits of
the industrial assurance business for the benefit of
the shareholders. It annexed £222,793 as shareholders’
dividend in 1893 ; £277,457 in 1894 ; £325,712 in 1895 ;
£365,270 as dividend and £500,000 to enrich the share-
holders’ reserve fund in 1896 ; £363,750 dividend and
£lOO,OOO for reserves in 1897 ; £425,000 dividend and
£150,000 for reserves in 1898; £440,000 dividend and
£50,000 for reserves in 1899; £450,000 dividend and
£50,000 for reserves in 1900. The dividend for 1900 was
45 per cent, on the nominal capital and thousands per
cent, on the real capital. And even this unspeakable
cormorant poses as a friend and benefactor of the poor I
9 m m m
Regarding the Colo River electric lighting
enterprise the story goes that Sydney municipal authori-
ties, when asked how it would affect their electric-light
supplying scheme, pooh-poohed the idea of power being
effectively conveyed to Sydney from that distance (20
miles or so). But there is no shadow of doubt that the
electricity can be carried (if it can be cheaply generated)
the necessary distance. The only question is whether the
0010 stream will provide the power to generate electricity
in great force, and writer, who has seen a good deal of the
river from its Blue Mountains source downwards, is
strongly inclined to answer that question in the affirma-
tive. N.S.W. Government is even now a large consumer
of electricity in the city of Sydney for trams, etc. : within
a few years, if it keeps pace with the times, it will run its
suburban trains by the same motive-power. The Colo
River gives the best hope of a water-generated electricity •
supply, and it should be reserved for the State and the
municipality of Sydney, not handed over to private
syndicators. N.S.W. Parliament should see to this as soon
as the session opens in May and quash any existing con-
tract secured behind its back.
* « * *
The electric-power concession privately granted
to the Colo River (N.S.W.) syndicate was given during
the venerated Lands Minister Hassall’s time. That
ought to be the best of all guarantees that it was purely
in the public interest, and that no other consideration
was allowed to have any weight in its issue.
Cabled that the British Broken Hill made a loss
of £11,270 last half-year (to Dec. 31). But that is hardly
a fair way to put it, as only development work was done.
Prospecting with drill and otherwise is still giving only
fair results or a trifle less. Block 10 loses the only
manager it has ever had—a fine miner of the old school,
the only “cap’n” left on the line of lode. Block 10 s
difficulties callfor a mechanical engineer—the plant need 9
reorganising; it is too much like patchwork.——lne
South hasn’t started that badly-needed main shaft yet
When the shareholders are told that the null "ill
have to shut up for 12 months or so because
the one shaft (sunk partly in one of the most
unstable sections of the lode) has corkscrewed, there
will probably be a row. J ust the same sort
of warning went unheeded at the Junction; and the
Junction has been going round with a hat most of the
time since. There was a row in the over-officered Block
14 lately, and it looked as though some much-needed
firing-out was going to be done ; but nothing has come of
it all.—Broken Hill miners are going to make an early
appearance before the Arbitration Oourt. The chief kick
will be against the hideously lop-sided contract form, but
ordinary miners and open-cut men ask for 10s. a shite
instead of 9s. and 7s. 6d., and surface-hands 9s. instead of
7s. 6d. Open-cut work has, however, just about finished ;
the men on this were the worst treated on the field.
* * * *
N.S.W. mining has not been a conspicuous suc-
cess for English speculators. Three years ago there w ere
at least a dozen reps, of London corporations occupying
luxuriously-furnished offices in Sydney. Not one remains,
and only two or three, out of hundreds of mines tried, are
now being worked. That discredited financier, Horatio
Bottomley, comes to the rescue with the Great Lucknow
Consols, which he is attempting to boom on reports of
Newman, M.P., and Rosewarne. Lucknow is now hardly
a name to conjure with in London, one would think ; yet
it has been dragged into this Canoblas show, which is 14
miles distant and in totally different country. Reports
are like fairy tales. Rosewarne is made to say: the
Canoblas is a wonderful thing. Fancy having a vein,
say, giving 50oz. to the ton, besides unlimited quan-
tities of l£oz. ore.” That little word, say, is very
significant. It may have “much virtue” in it, or much
vice. Strange that this “ wonderful ” show has not been
heard of locally. Is it the scheme with which prominent
railway officials have been associated ? Sydneysiders are
slow mining men, but writer has not met one who would
be ass enough to let a Bottomley handle a 50oz. show
until it was worked out.
• * * *
Gulf Creek copper - mine, Barraba, N. S. W. *
closed down. Rolker, the distinguished engineer repre-
senting the English owners, has been on the mine for
several weeks. Reason for shutting up, according to the
daily sup-press —“ the low price of copper.” Real reasons
—ore much lower in value than estimated, and lode not
persistent in depth or length.
* • • *
Cabled tliat Merton’s Reward (W. A.) has been
duly floated in London —£300,000 in £1 shares. Flotation
a foregone conclusion, as mine is self-supporting and
independent of public aid. Kaufman secured two-thirds
of mine, with call at par for one year on Merton’s third,
for a paltry £lO,OOO cash. In addition he got 15,000 tons
of tailings, which should yield £15,000 clear profit, £l5OO
of gold off plates and from battery boxes, together with
30-head battery. Practically, therefore, Kaufman got a
bonus for taking the mine, which proves what can be
done with an egotistically clever man like Merton when
he is properly handled by the sons of Israel.
*' * * •
Officially notified that Great Boulder South
(W.A.), after seven years’ travail, is at last to bring forth
something. Anyhow, test crushings of oxidised and sul-
phide ores are being made at Lakeside battery. If results
are poor, which is probable unless retail lots are tried,
nothing may be heard of the matter, from official sources
at least.
* • * *
Bellevue Consols (W.A.) originally floated in
’96, recently underwent a second reconstruction, and is
now said to have £70,000 cash to work on. Qo. recon-
structed with 400,000 shares at 10s. each. Holders of
160,000 £1 shares in old co. get share for share of 10s.
fully paid in new venture. Gold Finance Co. get
230,000 shares for providing £70,000 working capital, and
for trading off 200 acres of saltbush on shareholders.
Remaining 10,000 shares held in reserve. The plant
partly constructed by deceased W. J Koehler, late
manager, and formerly head serang of B.H. property, has
been condemned, as the sulphide ore is now alleged to be
free milling and not refractory as held by Koehler and
former manager Bryant. New 40-head heavy stamps to
be installed, and run in conjunction with present obsolete
20-head. Monthly minimum profit of £9OOO predicted.
In the original prospectus, at time of flotation, the mine
was a perfect marvel of wealth. It is a creation of the
Forrest crowd, and their henchman, Richard Hoffmann.
* * * *
East Murchison United (W.A.) has been saddled
with the Wahroonga South lease, situated seven miles
from original mine. Price paid, £21,000 cash. Steam
tram-line to cpnnect two properties now being laid.
Grade of ore in the E. Murchison mine becoming very
low, and something had to be done to brighten prospects.
Quite certain Bewick-Moreing has scored off the deal.
* * • *
Sons of Gwalia management again changed,
and Attwater give place to a new man. During the
concern’s few years’ existence it has been afflicted with
no less than seven managers, each of whom in turn
blamed his predecessor’s vagaries for the rotten state of
developments and workings. Mine greatly over-puffed in
past, besides being badly handled : it may safely be rated
as a 9 to lOdwt. show. Owns 611 acres, mostly sand-
patch, got off on co. at high figures.
* * * *
Laverton district (W.A.) appears to have been
greatly overrated in early days by certain amateur
experts who for awhile were accepted at their own valua-
tion. Its record is British Flag, Mt. Barnicoat, and
Eagle’s Nest, all gone bung ; and Augusta, Childe
Harold, Euro, Oraiggiemore, and Lancefield, none of
which are in a good way. Even Ida H, which looked like
retrieving the fortunes of the district, shows only 6dwt.
stone at 300 ft., and seems likely to confirm the theory
that gold at Laverton peters out at very shallow depths.
Lancefield at present under six months’ option to Bewick,
Moreing and co., who propose floating it in London for
£225,000, of which only £25,000 is to be working capital.
The vendors and B.M. and co. are considerately to cut
up the balance among them. Mine, so far, being worked
by local syndicate, who pulled out oxidised ore anyhow ;
prospects of serious mining brought them up with a
sharp turn.
* * * *
After three years’ experimenting (at a cost of
not less than £500,000 !) it is gravely stated that the
Associated (W.A.) is to discard its two Ropp furnaces
in favor of more modern roasters. The plant is such a
complication of different men’s ideas that, no matter
what roasters are used, it will never profitably treat
12 to 15-dwt. ore, which is more than the mine’s correct
average. Plant should be condemned in toto, and
replaced by a battery forthwith. Hewitson intends
retiring, and Dunstan, the metallurgist, after a visit to
London, will probably succeed him. The mine and equip-
ment are in such a state of muddle that their condition is
hopeless so long as a patching policy is persevered in.
Intrinsically, shares are valueless, as there are no div.
prospects.
* * * *
Hannan’s North (W.A.): About come, to end of
tether. Co. has been twice reconstructed, second time
with Kalgoorlie Star, which it absorbed. Six months ago,
splendid 10-head battery erected oh latter property,
which had no stone developed, so all ore had to be carted
from the North lease. All stone developed on latter now
practically exhausted, and battery will shortly close
down. Management in London and on mine hopeless
muddle.
* • • *
Golden Zone (W.A.) has arranged to buy a
second-hand obsolete battery, cost to be defrayed,
according to bargain, out of proceeds of gold produced.
This appears on surface to be a good bargain for share-
holders, and possibly may be so, but will prove utterly
misleading to scrip-buyers as prospects of mine are very
poor, with very little ore developed, and battery can only
run full time for two or three months. Co. also takes
option over Lady Lawley, one mile from Coolgardie—
why, perhaps sapient directors can explain, writer can’t.
For latter property is totally undeveloped and the reef
not even located.
Golden Horseshoe (W.A.) declared div. of 6s.
per share (£90,000), The new battery has already made
trial runs, and this month starts to knock-out divs.
Development being pushed ahead, apparently regardless
of human life, as, at recent inquest, it seemed that the
air in lowest workings was very foul. Boundary lode
still rich in telluride wherever opened up, and this ore
will make up for any deficiency in monthly returns.
Mine should again lead list of producers in April, and
stay there.
* * * *
White Feather Main Reef, Kanowna (W.A.):
Again fallen on evil days, and ceased paying quarterly
divs. for six months past. New 10-head mill ordered 18
months ago never erected, but pretty well used up piece-
meal to replace wear and tear on existing plant. Reef
patchy, and main shaft sunk in wrong place, so that long
crosscuts to east have to be made to intercept reefs, and
at every succeeding level these crosscuts become longer
and costlier. All old tailings eyanided, so no longer any
reserves to fall back on. Future not over-bright. Value
of shares problematical, but betting in favor of fall.
* * * *
Mt. Margaret Reward (W.A.) : Reconstructed
for the fifth time since flotation in ’94. Capital reduced
from £220,000 to £132,000. Shareholders in new co.
entitled to three shares, 17s. paid, for every five shares
held in old co. Assessment of Is. on application, and
balance in 6d. calls, at intervals of not less than two
months. After last reconstruction, 18 months ago, first
three crushings were lumped together, the result being a
rig in the shares to 155., followed by a knock-out slump
when the trick was discovered. Mine controlled by the
illustrious Richard Hoffmann.
* « * *
After doing 238 ft. north at 656 ft. level of
Pomeroy shaft on north block, management of Hannan’s
Oroya (W.A.) started crosscutting east to try and inter-
cept the Iron Duke chute. As this north drive was
started from a west crosscut, things seem rather mixed.
That the chute will eventually be located seems probable,
but looking for it in this erratic way is playing into the
hands of bears with a vengeance. For information of
investors it may be pointed out that outcrop of lode is
east of Pomeroy shaft, but lode underlies west, and was
passed through at about 650 ft. from surface.
* • • *
Bewick Moreing and Co's report on Lake View
Consols (W.A.) will be anything but cheerful reading for
holders of shares. Stated that there are two V-shaped
ore-bodies, which cut out at 300 and 600 ft. respectively.
Isolated ore bodies said to occur at ’sooft., 700 ft., and
800 ft. levels. It has long been known on the field that
the ore was found in lenses, either vertical or horizontal,
and the report merely confirms this. Total estimated
reserves are put at 50,430 tons of 21Jdwt., yet the wise-
acres who have reported assert that they are confident of
maintaining 6000 tons output for next 12 months—to do
which reserves would have to be increased by 50 per
cent. No one has any confidence either in the manage-
ment, and each speculator will gamble in the scrip
according to his own fancy.
* * * *
From Westralia: The March gold yield,
177,5050 z., is the greatest for three years, and has
been only twice beaten. Total for three months.
498,3570 z. ; ditto, 1901, 402,0390 z.; 1900, 387,7180 z. The
Perth Mint now gets just more than half the output.——
In spite of the out-and-out official condemnation of the
Warren River oil areas, the fact remains that there is
free oil on the surface of the river water. The curse of
Deeming, late of Southern Cross and other parts, seems
to sit heavily on Coolgardie water scheme. While the
Government party was being taken out to see that there
wasn’t any deception about the pipe-line, a plug blew
out of the engine and left 40 of the bosses of Groperdom
growling in the wilderness for a couple of hours. The
total cost of the scheme to date has been £1,915,500, ex-
clusive of nearly £lOO,OOO departmental costs ; and the
officers think to complete it for another £750,000.


DAVID JONES‘'COMPANY
George and Barrack Streets, Sydney.
HIGH-CLASS HATTERS
Men’s
Black
Semi
m
10/6
13/6
15/6
High
Grade
Selecting
Fur Felt .
HARRINGTON’S
m
CAMERAS
From 5 s. up to £5O.
EVERY
CAM Eli IST may Compete.
UNITED
PREffIO-
YJCTOR-EMPIRE
Cash
£6O
Prizes.
( PHOTOGRAPHIC
(COMPETITIONS
SCHEDULE OF COMPETITION from . . .
HARRINGTON & CO. LTD
66 Xing-st,, Sydney, and
93 Queen-st., Brisbane.
Agents
in
all
the
Principal
Centres.
SOCIETY
LEROY
LIUEUR
BRANDY
Re prayers for rain : If Australia had a
range of mountains like the Andes or Himalayas,
with peaks up to 20,000 ft. in height, extending
down the centre of the country from Port Darwin
to Adelaide, and with spurs striking out east and
west, there would be no lack of rain, and per-
manent streams would be abundant in the interior.
Therefore instead of praying for this parti-
cular drought to be removed, how much more
logical, complete, and comprehensive it would be to
pray for the removal of the cause of all our
droughts—the flatness of the country ! A day of
supplication should be appointed for the supply
of a central mountain range. The Providence
which can send rain when it would not otherwise
come can just as easily send a gigantic mountain
chain. And if it came then we would know it was
a direct answer to prayer—a point that can
never be settled in the case of rain, which falls
alike on the just and the unjust. But new
mountain ranges don’t come to the unjust.
* • * *
At latest advices, N.S.W. Agent-General,
Henry Copeland, was still moaning in England to
secure State Premier See an invite to the Corona-
tion with free board and lodging thrown in.
Copeland begins to look a very cheap and sordid
mendicant these times. He lately went so far as
to point out that though the Canadian State
Premiers did not receive invitations that precedent
should not affect Australia, because our States
only federated on 39 points, whereas in Canada
the»union covered much more ground and left far
less pomp and dignity to the boss State politician.
Copeland appears to be the only A.-G. who is
making this kind of disturbance, and as Barton,
the man who is invited, belongs to his State, he is
the one who has least cause for creating an
undignified disturbance at the door. The
whole proceeding is low and ungentlemanly. If
one gentleman doesn’t invite another to his
festivity the only possible inference is that the
first gentleman doesn’t want the second gentleman
A MODEST HEROINE.
"In saved a man's life at Manly last week myself."
"How? I didn't see anything about it in the papers."
"Well, In should hope not! He said he'd die if I didn't let him kiss me!"
there, and the second gentleman, if he is a
gentleman and not merely a gent, should let it go
at that.
* * * *
Recently, an affluent person appeared in a
Sydney marine suburb, and put up at a local pub.
He was so free with his cash that his fame spread;
few men cared to tackle sordid work while a per-
petual stream of free beer was within reach. For
days the generous one filled ’em up for all and
sundry, but, just as the necessity of special trams
to that suburb seemed probable, three warders
drove up and removed the hospitable newcomer.
He was an escaped leper, and the sheoak brigade
who had pawed and fondled him is in a blue
funk, especially one citizen, who bought for a
mere song an elegant pair of boots, which did nob
quite fit the stranger.
* » * *
The latest development of the domestic
servant question. A letter by “English Girl” to
Sydney E. News :
One cannot expect any girl, nowadays, who has had
any education whatever, to cringe and pander to the
idiotic whims and tricks of the upstarts who call them-
selves ladies, for the only reason that they possess more
“ filthy lucre ” than others. My experience of these so-
called “ ladies ” is this : They are unutterably filthy and
mean in their home life. I will give a few instances of
what I, an English girl, have had to put up with from
some of them. No doubt the following will be an eye-
opener for the men. Well, to begin with, most of them
have but one dish or bowl to do everything in. This is
commonly called the “ washing-up dish.” The uses to
which this indispensable article is put are too numerous
and awful to mention fully. I will tell but a few. In it
they wash their feet, hair, brushes, and combs, clean
vegetables, mix up cakes and puddings, etc. In one case
this dish was given to the “paying guest” every night
to take a sitz bath in, and had to be brought from his
bedroom every morning before I could wash the break-
fast things. . . . Another reason many girls will not stay
is because the mistress expects them to have the appetite
of a canary bird, and the strength of two strong men.
Talking of stinginess, you should see the miserable doles
of food allowed for the servant, who, considering she has
to do all the hard work, requires good, nourishing food,
and enough of it, to keep up her strength. I have
known one of these so-called ladies tell the girl to warm
up a small quantity of greasy stew (the lady’s own make)
no less than four times. The girl would not eat it, and,
as a last resource, heaved it into the fire to escape warm-
ing it the fifth time. All this is enough, to say nothing
of the insults the children are allowed and encouraged
to give, to make it difficult to keep a servant. Now, is it
surprising that a girl prefers to be a poorly-paid dress-
maker or shop girl than a domestic servant? No. When
ladies are ladies, and clean themselves, then, and not till
then, will good servants be obtainable and keepable.
• * * *
Out of 81 cases of plague at Brisbane 70
came from one particularly dirty quarter, but the
sacred rights of “ Propputty ” caused the daily
sup-press to mention this in a vague and casual
manner. The civic authorities are horror-stricken
to find that the Health Commissioner contem-
plates an all-round clean-up leaving the council to
foot the bill or collect it from the owners, whichever
it chooses.
* * * •
Sassiety is a queer thing. When the first
case of the second Sydney plague outbreak was
mentioned Redfern was crowded with pluto-
cratic refugees making for the Blue Mountains.
Since then hundreds of them have refused even to
visit the infected city ; but they’re pouring away
to London to see the Coronation, regardless of the
fact that the much more hideous smallpox
epidemic is sweeping through that city and claim-
ing hundreds, whereas the plague in Sydney only
attacked units.
Alexandria, the prize plague-suburb of
Sydney, has 26 dairies and 33 noxious, trades—
more dairies than any other municipality of its
size in N.S.W.; which does much to explain the
habit the Sydney baby has of dying in early
infancy.
* * • *
“The crying need for” expenditure:
Some of the frantic cleansing-up of Sydney,
of which we hear so much, might well be
directed to the tram waiting-sheds. These pre-
sent the appearance of huge rubbish-boxes that
the stray mongrel and the prowling chiffonier have
IN A SENSE.
SHE: "They tell me you struck it rich over in
the West."
HE: " Ye-es, so I did; that is, I was rich when
I struck it!"
carefully ransacked, strewn as they are with
specimens of all Sydney’s debris. Mostly, too,
they are plunged at night in Cimmerian gloom.
A nervous woman, and much more a timid man,
would hardly care at night to penetrate the dim
recesses of these vice-tempting haunts at lonely
spots, such as Botany or the cross streets between
Randwick and Coogee.
* • * *
About time that someone took action to
prevent the senseless multiplication of statues of
“ prominent citizens ” in Australian cities. One
of the best positions in Melbourne is now to be
taken up by a statue of the late S’William Clarke,
a good sort in his way—a quiet, good-natured,
harmless capitalist—but what else ? Melbourne is
already afflicted by a fearsome presentment of the
late Francis Ormond, frock-coated and betrousered
—a ghastly production from the aesthetic stand-
point-while, close by, on the steps of the Public
Library, a huge mass of bronze is wasted on a
full-length portrait of the late Judge Barry. The
fault is not always that .of the artist. Bertram
Mackennal has a hatred of the conventional
statue, and favored the erection of a symbolic
group typifying the virtues of the dead man and
with simply a medallion portrait on the pedestal.
But, when he suggested this for the Q. statue to
ex-Premier Byrnes, the committee grew indig-
nant, and demanded that Byrnes should be known
to future generations in a frock-coat.
♦ • * *
Scene, Sydney Divorce Court. Very
junior counsel (tremblingly, to old and deaf peti-
tioner—his client): “ What’s your name ? ” His
Honor (to witness, who, through his deafness, has
not caught the question): ‘ ‘ Your counsel is asking
you a question.” Old and deaf petitioner (apolo-
getically): “I beg your pardon, sonny!" Col-
lapse of junior counsel.
* * * *
Though the Tennysons are the most frugal
vice-regalities who have yet occupied Adelaide
Govt. House, they are very popular because of
His Ex.’s disinclination to public speechifying, and
Lady Tennyson’s practical good-heartedness.
Still, their thrifty ways are strengthening the
demand that one economy shall be a dropping of
the £4OOO vice-regal salary to £3OOO, or less, in the
case of future Governors. “Let it be a mere
billet, and have done with the entertaining,” is
the suggestion.
• * * *
Adelaide Mayor Cohen (a “ financier ” by
profession) has fixed his ball just three days after
the elections (at which he is a candidate in the
Ass. interest), and has sent out 3000 invitations.
Ladies vote in Adelaide. Also, he has caused it
to be notified that other entertainments are
coming along, and that every citizen who attends
the Mayoress’ receptions will be remembered.
Cohen is the gentleman who, years ago, after an
hour’s bellowing—his lungs are phenomenally
strong—on a no-confidence motion, sat down with
the remark : “ I have lost my voice but saved the
country.”
• • • •
The Australian is not, as a rule, conspicu-
ous for forethought and presence of mind, but
occasionally he shines with a vengeance. A recent
fire at Childers (Q.) destroyed-23 shops —£20,000
worth of property. While it was raging, a shop-
keeper, whose plaoe seemed endangered, went
calmly away, hired two vacant shops over the
street, and "had his goods quietly transferred to
the new premises. After some time his aban-
doned shop also took fire and was utterly
destroyed, but Yardstick started business just as
usual next morning—to the admiration of a tired
and listless generation. In America this would
amaze no one; in Bananaland it was simply
phenomenal.
Melb. Age advt :
TXTEALTHY Widower again willing to risk it with
” an agreeable, kind woman of soul. Affinity,
Age Office.
Patriotism is now the last refuge of the
bowled-out murderer. Melbourne arsonist Mac-
namara, hanged on Monday, made his final appeal
for mercy by asserting that, as his wife was a
Boer, she had set fire to their house and killed her
child for the purpose of getting him into trouble,
in revenge for his fighting for King and Empire
with the 9’African Rifles. But it was too late for
such a plea to do any good. Macnamara should
have committed his crime two years ago, and then
he would only have had to whisper that his wife
was a Boer for a big section of the community
to be filled with hysterical compassion for him.
There seems to have been grave doubts as to
whether Macnamara was ever a soldier at all, for
he would certainly have endeavored to influence
the jury at his trial had sucli been the case. The
chances are that the fighting for King and Empire
was merely an afterthought. Macnamara was the
very worst kind of villain ; for, after insuring hfs
wife’s life, and cold-bloodedly attempting to burn
her to death (in doing which he managed to kill
their child), he calmly accused her of the arson.
And this while the poor woman was all the time
protesting his innocence !
• • * »
Australian executions for arson have been
few. There has not been an execution for the
offence since 1840—when T. Whitton was hanged
at Sydney for arson and murder. In 1829 John
Holmes was executed at Sydney for setting fire to
a barn. Dunn, sentenced to death for fire-raising
in George-st. (a woman was killed in jumping
from a window), served 15 years, and was released.
The execution of M'Namara, in Melbourne, oh
Monday, stands alone in modern times.
PINT-POT PHILOSOPHY.
"Wot'sh the good of wealth-you can't get any
drunker than you can, can you?"
M.L. Railway Dept, is noted for its miser-
able parsimony. A guard got injured on the
Otago Central, and a traveller, who was on the
spot, doffed his overcoat and placed it under the
man’s head. He didn’t expect to get the article
again, but, some time afterwards, the Dept, wrote
him, saying he could have it on forwarding Is. Bd.
railage. He was a humorous person, and paid up
without question.
ONE DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The clouded sails of afternoon
Drove in the heavens high,
Above the east the pallid moon
Showed in the windy sky ;
And there we met and made an end
For ever, you and I.
Few words, half-lost in sudden gust
Of March wind wild at play ;
Slow words and few ; our love was dust,
And what was there to say ?
Touched hands ; and, mirth and tears between,
Took each our chosen way.
Yet now I dream ; and, none more fair,
The vision glimmers in the air—
O sweet your face ! O dear your hair
Blown by the warm and dusty tide
Of northern wind ! O, Love, at last
Dreaming I hold, that never died !
Dreaming, I hold ....
Yet, waking, know;
Love to the winds I cast aside
One wild day long ago.
MERIDEN.
HOMAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To sound clarions and harmonies,
Queens may ride forth ; gleam sabre and bright lance ;
On roof and tower wind-shaken pennons dance ;
And yet—my dear Love has no need of these.
Her thoughts command, her wishes are decrees.
She conquers new dominions with a glance ;
No Queen, for all her silken elegance
Gould rule a heart with such imperious ease.
Wherever is my Love, so queenly fair,
She seems to have all homage given her ;
The wind that seeks the tangle of her hair
Whispers her name softly ; the birds astir
Sing of my Love ; the very stars a-shine
Gleam the more brightly now my Love is mine.
THOROLD DALEYMPLE.


J.D.K.Z. GIN
Messrs. JN. DE KUYPER & ZOON’S famous
Gin has been established no less than 207 years,
and to-day enjoys the distinction of being the
most popular stimulant in the world. Its medi-
cinal qualities surpass those of any other spirit—
where a health and life-giving stimulant is re-
quired it will do all that the best brandy can do,
but is much superior for liver and kidney troubles.
Those who are particular about the quality of the
liquid they take, ask for J.D.K.Z. Agents for
.N.S.W,, LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie-
Plaec, Sydney.
FAN’S
CATARRH
Is., 2s. 6d, ss.
REMEDY.
TIME
AND
MONEY
GAINED.
Will Cure a simple cold in a day.
A neglected cold in a week.
An obstinate CATARRH in a month.
Literature of Catarrh and Treatment with
each bottle.
For further particulars, apply to
RAFFAN, Pharmacist, Melbourne.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.”
SILVER
STAR
STARCH
THE BEST IN THE WORLD,
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
■
9 i
r
■ 1.-WKH-V?
“F.M.” airs a substantial Sydney grie-
vance :—
Editor Bulletin. —The newspaper room in the Victoria
Markets, the Govt, room, the only room in Sydney where
a ** e ava * la^ l< u, of decent habits,
practically unapproachable. 20 per cent, of the readers”
are domain dossers, unwholesome, unashamed. As many
more are “ sports,” spotting for good things in all the
daily papers. And there is no shifting them. Cranks
with various subjects in their heads read up hour after
hour. Patriots and politicians mumble and mutter, and
b ,T ause the L a , e n ? fc P? rnlitted t 0
speak aloud, and an odd man with legitimate business
looks in, sniffs and walks out again. The reference
library is nearly as bad, smelling vilely, manv of its books
horribly stained and greasy. Why not have a room put
up for the “dossers” down at the back of Parliament
House, with a reading-room, if necessary, and then the
purgation of both newspaper-room and Public Library
might begin. The Melbourne National Gallery, in
Swanston-st., is a type of what a public news-room really
ought to be, and Sydney might well take it as a pattern.
* • • *
It seems that there are two great pictures
of the opening of the Federal Parliament being
painted. Of course, on lines of amicable artistic
rivalry.
* » * »
Being a coroner’s juryman is quite a pro-
fession in Sydney; the 12 places are filled by
almost the same men at every inquest. Lawyer
Levien complained, the other day, that two sus-
picious deaths after “operations,” in which the
same female client was alleged to be interested,
were inquired into by exactly the same jurors on
different days. Naturally, there would be a danger
of the jurors being prejudiced in the second case.
It’s an honest way of making a living to be a pro-
fessional coroner’s-juryman, but the system has
its dangers.
* * * *
“As it is against the regulations for any
public servant to accept a money gift, a purse of
sovereigns was presented to Mrs. Turner, she
being commissioned to buy her husband anything
to that value that he might desire.” That is the
published account of the presentation made in
connection with the departure of that most excel-
lent public servant, Mr. J. W. Turner, for
Europe as commissioner in search of educational
novelties for N.S.W. At the very least all con-
cerned (and Education Minister Perry was among
them) conspired to show a very bad example as
regards respect for regulations to other officers
and teachers in the service. The _ cadging of
officers and teachers, done directly, is vile; and
the officer or teacher who sanctions the practice
described above “gets there” indirectly, and
should be amenable to whatever penalties the
regulations prescribe.
GOOD BOY!
THE OLD MAN: "Ikey, where was Moses when
the light went out?"
IKEY: "At the till!"
The missionary ship John Williams is
again in port, bringing as passenger Rev. Hunt,
who states that several tribes known to have been
implicated in the murder of Bishop Chalmers,
have been punished. Some of them were killed,
although it doesn’t appear that they were the
actual murderers—who are still at large. This
does not seem to fit in with Scriptural teaching at
all ; even if the old eye-for-an eye rule was
(ariied out it was the actual wrong-doer’s eye—
not anybody’s eye.
• * * •
One cheerful ghoul, a non-com. officer in
the infamous Bushveldt Carbineers, told a Mel-
bourne scribe that Handcock was acquitted at the
court martial of the murder of German missionary
Heese because there was not sufficient evidence
against him, adding—“ We took care there was not ;
he was our officer, and we were not going to turn
dog on him.”
* * * *
Free public houses are evidently a rarity
in Melbourne. One S. Melb. hostelry proudly
announces in gold letters on its front wall: “ This
hotel is a free house and not under the control of
any brewery or wineor spirit merchant whatever.”
“ W.J.” ; Be the 14 daily mishaps at
present occurring on the Vic. railways—judging
by the customs of the shunting-yards, it’s a wonder
accidents are as rare they are. Everybody seems
to have “engine-fever,” from the cleaner to the
guard, then back to the driver’s small son; and
all these are allowed to “drive” (often “on their
ace ”) with impunity. Consequence is a series
of deafening reports (which must be a heavy test
on the buffers), and a sudden-jerk style of apply-
ing the brake (which must be equally disastrous
to something else). Some of the Vic. drivers
(especially those on the “jungle” divisions) are
woefully inexpert, and their shunting is a chapter
of impacts and jars.
“ Ex’s.” : Re cutting-down of expenses
by Vic. railways district traffic superintendents
(8., 5/4/’O2). That is now the paramount
duty of all railway employes. The safety
of the public was at one time “ the first and
most important duty of every employe.”
An instance of how the new regulation some-
times pans out: An engine working a ballast
train became derailed at a station, and the station-
master, anxious to carry out his superiors’ cheese-
paring system, rushed around and sent the guard
of the ballast-train home, to save his wages, while
the locomotive was off the line. Meanwhile he
forgot all about making the necessary changes in
the staff-working arrangements, and trains were
blocked all along the line in consequence.
The recent Inglewood accident on the Vic.
railways seems to have shaken up the depart-
mental officers (as well as the passengers who were
in the train). Inspectors now go round and
examine temporary train-examiners-cum-engine-
cleaners, and instruct them when their want of
knowledge requires it. T’other day an inspector
encountered a man who had been train-examining
for months, yet who thought the Westinghouse
brake was applied by an increase of air-pressure
in the train-pipe, instead of a decrease. Experts
will understand how well-qualified such a man
would be to examine the brake for defects.
* * • *
The newspaper letter-writing of the fore-
man and other members of the jury in the capital
case of Lukins, at Sydney (one juryman says the
eleven were against him, and he gave in through
that influence), raises the question of how far the
deliberations in a jury-room are to be considered
secret. At one time the secrecy was regarded as
inviolable. If jurors may afterwards publicly
describe their individual fights against odds, it
would seem that they might as well carry on their
deliberations in open court.
* * • *
“F.C.”: Re the violet-leaves concoction
as a cancer-cure, I wore for years, in a prominent
position, a wart; tried dozens of
alleged removers, from
corn-plasters to broad-
beans, unavailingly.
Then my landlady
—a small, yellowish
woman with a level
head recom-
mended me to steal
a piece of meat,
rub it on the wart,
and bury it. As it
decomposed, the
wart would do
ditto. I stole the
meat, used it as
directed, and the
wart duly disap-
peared, and has re-
mained away for the
last five years. Hav-
ing no more super-
stition than a dray,
I reckon the excre-
scence disappeared
as a consequence of
too much ‘ ‘ remedy ”
or in the course of
Nature, so to speak; but
all the arguments of a Presby-
terian Synod wouldn’t convince that
small, level-headed woman that its disappear-
nnce was due to anything but the stolen-meat
cure.
• • * *
“ The annual reunion of the Ballarat and
Bendigo printers with their metropolitan con-
freres ” (as Melb. Argus puts it in an annual
paragraph) seems to come rather rough on a
number of outside citizens. The blessed reunion
is organised by the printing staffs of the Argus
and the Age, and the exes, are provided by means
of a circular inviting subscriptions from all such
persons—“representative” and otherwise —as
must naturally feel compelled to ante-up.
The printers’ picnic fund amounts to a
polite blackmail, in fact. Bakers, butchers,
grocers, &c., manage their annual festivals without
sending round the hat, and the employees of the
two “great ” dailies might as well make an effort
to “shout ” for themselves. As for the “ reunion”
aspect of the joke it is given away by the Argus
par which stated: “ There were some 40 odd
country visitors present, besides 150 Melbourne
printers and their lady friends.” The few
strangers from Bendigo and Ballarat serve as the
excuse for the cadging circular.
* • * •
“ Veteran ” to The Bulletin :
Officers of any service experience ’know that if they see
a man drunk it is their duty, without saying a word to
him, to have him run in. A wise and merciful English
army regulation provides that drunks are “ not to be
spoken to, or provoked to violence.” If General Hutton
doesn’t know this, what on earth does he know about
soldiering? There was no need for him to make that
ridiculous and abusive speech. In fact, it was against all
regulations. If the wild speech had provoked a mutinous
outbreak, what could Gen. Hutton have done to put it
down ? If the 240 men or so whom he was abusing had
begun shying things at him and Mr. See (whom some of
them hold responsible for the back-pay difficulty)
authority would have been helpless.
• * * *
Two newspapers now published in Sydney
are known as “Coogee” and “Little Coogee.”
Coogee in aboriginal tongue means “Stink.”
"WARE HANDS, DAD HERE COMES
KISSY WARE."
Mr. A.W. Wars has left Adelaide for London ria
America-News items.
The census return declares, without a
smile on its visage, that there were in N.S.W., at
the time of the 1901 census, five persons aged 100
years, six aged 101, three aged 104, one aged 107,
and one aged 113. What splendid liars some of
these old inhabitants are ! In the records of the
British peerage and baronetage, where ages really
can be traced, there has never been a person of
even 100 years. Some years ago it was also
recorded that no life-assurance office had ever paid
a policy on the life of a centenarian, though this
state of things may have altered in more recent
times. Thomas Parr, Henry Jenkins, the Coun-
tess of Desmond and Carr of Shoreditch, said to
have died at the ages of 152, 169, 140 and 207
respectively, are all exploded Methuselahs
nowadays. The relic of 100 or 105 is never
a public man whose birth date can be traced
by any public record'. Nearest approach to
an authentic case the writer ever knew was
a Welsh ancient named Evan Jones, who
died in a wonderful state of preservation at
the age of 107, as attested by a very old, faded
entry on the fly-leaf of the oldest and rnouldiest
Bible writer ever saw. His marriage and the
births of his children (one of them also Evan
Jones) were also entered there, but as the family
was all scattered the documentary evidence stood
by itself. It transpired after Evan Jones was
buried that he wasn’t father Jones, but son Jones ;
that his alleged son Jones was himself, and his
other alleged children were his brothers and sisters,
and that his alleged wife was his mother. It was
a harmless deception which kept Jones, as a
village marvel, in odd shillings and tobacco and
beer in his declining years, but he had really,
declined at the not very remarkable age of 83.
* * * *
Melbourne Chinese seem to be reproducing
the worst features of ’Frisco’s Chinatown. The
papers made a great fuss lately about a girl of 12
found in a Chinese den, but their surprise at the
discovery merely accentuates their ignorance.
Anyone strolling down Little Bourke-street and
the lanes thereof after dusk on a Sunday evening
will see many white girls of between 12 and 18,
who evidently belong there. Why and how and
whence they come only the inscrutable heathen
knows.
» * * *
For sending a girl under 12 years to sell
flowers in the streets after nine at night, the
penalty in Sydney is 20s. and costs. What is the
penalty due by the police authorities who permit
half a hundred girls, most of them under 12, to
walk the city streets, and haunt the drinking-
shops with flowers to sell every Saturday night
of the year ?
* * * *
The Australian military reputation is
suffering a small slump. It is now rumored that
two cohentingenters from this country are in gaol
in S’Africa for acting as Boer spies.
The Melbourne House
Workers’ Association (which
genteel title reminds one of
goor Sallie Booth and her
ook Ladies’’ Union) has
been casting aspersions on
the moral character of the
local Registry offices. The
chief clients of the Registry
office are said to be gentlemen
in need of pretty and inex-
perienced housekeepers and
lydies who are seeking new
goods for their villas of easy
virtue. Therefore the
M.H.W. A. warns the joung
and innoceiit against the
danger of accepting situa-
tions at £1 a week from a
smiling gentleman, or an
oleaginous “auntie.” And
the M.H.W.A. preserves a
straight countenance in this
matter as though the perils
of the registry-office were
really as stated. The fact is
that very few good-looking
girls ever apply for situa-
tions “through offices,” and
a man rarely ventures among
the mob of wide-awake
“generals” who are waiting
in the Registry dame’s
ante-room. What is the
M.H.W.A. giving us?
* * «
A Melbourne suburban
tradesman had a son born to
him on the day that Lord
Brassey fell off his ship on to
the Australian continent; to
fill the Victorian Governor-
ship. In honor of the double
event the proud father in-
flicted on his defenceless
offspring the alliterative praenomens of Baron
Brassey. The boy has lived up to his name,
for he is the most unfortunate youngster on
record as regards spills, contusions, and disloca-
tions. His left arm was broken by a fall down-
stairs before he could walk ; and, as an incident of
his unsteady career, he has now had his other arm
fractured by falling off a pony.
* * *
An Adelaide woman, accused last week of
mercilessly flogging her adopted child, set up the
brassy defence that the girl had flogged herself—
to be strictly accurate, that she was a violent and
passionate child and used to throw herself indig-
nantly against the walls and the furniture. The
adopted serf, whose back “looked like pieces of
liver, ” had been working for her new parent for
two months, and stated that her remuneration
consisted of a flogging almost every day, and the
terrible state of her body fully bore out the
assertion. A police-inspector said that he
had seen persons receive a flogging of 20
strokes without anything like the injury she
had suffered. And the callous and heartless
bench at Adelaide City Police Court fined, the
ruffianly female one pound, instead of sending her
to the superior courts to get the three years
hard labor she deserved. Nothing was said about
prosecuting her on a charge of perjury, yet .her
assertion that her small slave had spanked herself
in such an inhuman fashion that she was a mass
of sores and bruises seemed worth inquiring into,
and there should be a fair chance, in any well-
ordered country, that it would also end in a long
sentence. Judges and magistrates groan and
rumble a good deal about the “ dreadful preva-
lence of perjury,” but they do little to suppress it.
Even the perfunctory effort of calling the attention
of the Attorney-General to a glaring instance
occasionally seems to be beyond them.
• » * *
The Maoriland suicide begins to develope
some of the characteristics of his Chinese brother.
In the Flowery Land it is not uncommon for an
injured party to get level with the one who “did ”
him, by suiciding on the successful one’s premises,
and thereby subjecting his enemy to the anxiety
of a trial and the expense of bribing a mandarin.
In somewhat similar fashion an Auckland laborer,
before shooting himself, penned letters to all his
friends and acquaintances* stating that it was his
wife’s “beastly Irish temper” that had driven
him to do it. Now, that lady’s daughters are
writing to papers and private persons to the effect
that their mother’s temper is that of an angel, but
a slanderous world continues to point at her as a
woman who nagged her husband into eternity.
Another case was that of a girl who had fallen
out with her best boy, and who decided that
he must have transferred his affections to
another girl. She wrote to her friends, stating
that she forgave him and the other girl for all the
wrong they had done her, and hoped her ghost
would not stand between them and happiness, or
words to that effect. She added that her body
would be found in the river—and so it was. Ap-
parently, there was no other girl, but that best
boy is now looked upon as a person who, in .spine
large, hazy fashion, slew a trusting woman, and
the fact that the body was found dressed in a nice
white frock, adds to his sin. Every woman who
is found dead in a new white frock, and with her
hair down, is understood to have been deeply
wronged.
APRIL OF THE ANTIPODES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The October of her life,
Sweet seventeen!
When the trees are full of sap,
And all the leaves are green ;
The time of falling tears,
With flying clouds the while,
And, gleaming thro’ the showers,
The rainbow of a smile.
M.L.
AHAU.


IF YOU WOULD . .
“Stand on Helvet”
MARK FOY’S
10s. BOOT
A Combination
Of COMFORT,
NEATNESS
and
GOOD WEAR
What You Want!
m
Do you like Coffee?
Perfect, Pure,
Fragrant, Exhilarating Coffee
Then Try m
M. SIM'S
Medal Coffee Essence
THE VERY BEST
Australian Representatives:
SWIFT &. COMPANY,
7 SPRINC STREET,
SYDNEY.
All Drapers Everywhere.
A WOMAN'S LETTER.
„ . Sydney, April 15, 1902.
My Dear Arini,—
One who was at the Colonial Club’s send-off
browse to Admiral Rawson writes me that our
new Governor is a likeable old sea-dog, but as an
orator he takes a back seat. When he got up to
return thanks, with a good dinner below and few
ideas aloft, he referred affectionately to “mv
Governorship of New Zealand.” The slip was
promptly corrected, but it sounded odd, as if he
were not quite sure as to which job he was taking
on. Dear, good little Beauchamp was present and
made a capital speech, but he is so altered. Has
now got a stop-out-late-at-night-break-my-halo
appearance.
Promoters of the proposed new morning paper
are working like beavers, and are reported to be
anxiously awaiting the answer of Mr. Massing-
ham, ‘ who has been offered the editorship at a
salary of £3OOO per annum.” If the proposed
paper comes to life, the evening Star will be
merged into the morning luminary, as the
former s shareholders are sponsors of the latter.
itch to travel now afflicts Australasians.
Not a vacant berth on liners which reach England
in time for the Coronation. Many sales of
“elegant” or “sumptuous” household furniture
are advertised, their “owners proceeding to Eng-
land. So many of the wanderers’ perspectives
do not end with the Coronation. The Bartons
go next month, and our Toby will possibly come
back Earl of Albury or Lord Barton of Orange.
Seriously, it is quite probable that the Federal
Premier will be created a Life peer. He has twice
refused a knighthood, but is not sufficiently
financial ” to accept (or to be offered) an entailed
title. Very strict precautions are taken in Eng-
land now against adding to the ranks of the poor
nobility. Personally, I hope Mr. Barton will get
the higher title. It will be so interesting to watch
Sydney rushing the new countess ; she would be
certainly more popular than that other countess
in Melbourne.
There was a very smart wedding and reception
last week at the Australia. The bride was Miss
Hepburn, and the bridegroom Mr. Smart —
brother to Miss Kitty Smart, the neat-figured
little blonde of whom Sydney women were a year
or two ago so jealous by reason of Governor
Beauchamps preference for her as a ball-room
partner. The bridegroom’s appearance is modest;
his station, Jindabyne, is the other way. One
could imagine a place named Jindabyne to be
worked by men whose surnames had been lost in
such appellations as Greenhide Harry and Dead
Horse Bob. It has the real aboriginal ring, and
would sound rhythmical in gum-bough-and-horse-
verse.
Cecil Rhodes Was consistent in his dislike for
women. Even when will-making he didn’t relent
and give the Long-Hairs a ohance in the educa-
tional bequests. Of his millions that have been
put aside for scholarships, not one penny is left
to women students. Nemesis! he despised women
but women have had it out of him to an extent,
for one of them helped to kill him —indirectly, of
course. If he had remained in the colder climate
of England he would have recovered, the doctors
say. He returned to S’Africa by an order of the
Supreme Court in connection with the Princess
Itidziwill forgeries. He knew he was risking his
life, but knew also that if he delayed (till winter)
people would say such things about him and Her
Highness, the journalist.
The Mayor of Sydney is most anxious to
c eanse the city. He has been signing his
name almost constantly since his inaugura-
tion to _ notices to the effect that if you
don’t slick up your premises quickly and
thoroughly he’ll order it to be done by his minions
at your expense ; and hundreds of these notices
hive been served on dwellers in the city. Well,
he had signed his name until he had worn all the
steel off his pen, and was writing with the stump
of the holder, and he had long ceased to notice to
whom he was writing, and so he did not see that
m one of the warnings he ordered himself and his
brother (Hughes and Hughes, solicitors) to clean
up their legal premises, fresco the walls, and
tie blue-bows nere and there; and if they
didn’t . “Thomas Hughes,” Mayor’s big
brother, got one of these and signed for it,
without looking at it. When he did look he
chuqlded. Meanwhile the other tenants in his
building had been served with like notices, and
now they came filing in, deeply hurt: “Mr.
Hughes, seein’ as ’ow I’ve bin a tenant o’ yourn
fer so long, an’ considerin’ that you and me and
yer brother ’as bin friends, I think it a bit rough
ter get a threatenin’ letter from him, an’ will yer
please chuse yer own weapons and let me know
the time and place, an’ me office-boy will call on
yer.” Then the challenged showed his own letter
and there were apologies and peace.
The Very Particular Lady and the Girl Who
Didn’t Oare were lingering over their lunch at the
Hotel Australia, and said the V.P.L., “ How dif-
ferent are the deportment and table-manners of
to-day from those of my youth. Now, look at the
way you are lolling on the table ; look around us ;
everyone else is resting elbows and arms on the
tables, and—O, mercy ! just look over at the Duke
of Leinster holding a banana in his hand, and eat-
ing it out of the skin!” “I have been de-
moralised about table ceremonial,” said the Girl
Who Didn’t pkre, “ever .since I dined with the
Brasseys, wheii they ruled Victoria. The Governor
blew on his soup to cool it; and later, he saucered
his coffee and zephyred at that. Then the Brassey
and Freeman infants came in and started a
cushion fight; Mamma Brassey screamed at them,
and told them not to mess the furniture about,
and Papa B. let them take laps of his liqueured
Sydnejr Conservatorium is an institution of
whose existence large numbers of Sydney people
were ignorant until last Saturday. It was founded
15 months ago for the purpose of providing a
sound and thorough training for students in music,
and subjects thereto allied, and the range of study
is of much greater extent than would be possible
under ordinary circumstances. The Conserva-
toriura gives prizes, scholarships, and other dis-
tinctions, and it begins to be sufficiently proud of its
students to exhibit them on the concert platform.
Last Saturday, in the Town Hali vestibule, it gave
its first exhibition of the ripening fruit, whilst
members of the teaching staff contributed the
finished material. The listeners numbered 300
and the programme was full of “distinction.”
Mr. Burns-Walker, of the teaching staff, sang,
for the first time, some Marie Corelli, set to
music by Mr. W. H. Wale, who holds a brief for
the organ on the staff. “Boy” it is called, and;
is a melodious, pathetic song: the pretty baritone
treated it handsomely. Mr. Laurence Campbell
recited “Rats!” (its other name is the “Pied
Piper ”). Then there were some improving re-
marks from the principal, Mr. Wale, and the
master of Newington College.
The Victor J. Daley fund, to send that well-
known poet for a sea-voyage in search of health,
is progressing. It is proposed to give a night’s;
entertainment to swell the funds. At the enter-
tainment the Gov.-General will be present to
smile sweetly at caricatures on himself by light-
ning artists, and listen to jibes, jokes, songs, and!
other things by most of the leading local stars,
who will twinkle for one night only in the sacred
cause of Art. Mrs. Bland Holt is secretary of the
ladies’ committee, and as the prosaic man-secre-
tary writes, “Success is emblazoned on the
horizon.” Subscriptions sent to the hon. treasurer,,
at The Bulletin office, will be duly acknowledged.
Strange the small things that upset us when we
are passing through the biggest trials of our lives.
Not long ago a Sydneyite was suing for a divorce
from his wife. He was a shy, nervous man, and
would have stood almost anything for a quiet life.
Before the case came on his friends could see that
he was dreading the public ordeal, and sym-
pathised with him accordingly. At last the day
came, and at the end of it one of the man’s friends
looked in to see him at his rooms. He was
staggered to find the man with his face buried in
his arms, sobbing like a child. “ Heavens ! ”
thought the friend, “ Surely he’s not in love with
her still!” Just then petitioner lifted his head
and showed a miserable face. “Ted,” he said,
“it’s broken me up. She—she—-looked such a
guy in that hat! ”
Miss Sylvia Blackston, a young contralto, pupil
of Signor Riccardi, extremely well-dowered in
the matter of eyes and hair and smile, and whose
vocal register is from E in alt to G, made her pro-
fessional debut last week. Her voice, which is of
pure and agreeable quality, is by way of being
a notable one. She sang with success Luzzi’s
“ Aye Maria,” for which Herr Vollmar wrote a
special ’cello obligato, and gave as encore “The
Minstrel Boy ” with as much feeling as if she
were a native of the isle chiefly known in con-
nection with St. Patrick, shamrocks, and Home
Rule. “ Abide With Me ” and Allitsen’s “ False
or True ” were others of her numbers. The debu-
tante has hitherto been known to us by her waltz
compositions—one, the “ Eruba,” was written
when her hair hung long and her skirts otherwise.
Miss Blackston was assisted by a fine body of
artists, and after the concert did the “ pretty ”
act of taking all her flowers—a lorry load, more or
less —to St. Vincent’s Hospital.
A little town adjacent to Sydney is feebly
excited over a forthcoming wedding which has not
been arranged without deliberation ; in fact, the
parties have been deliberating for about 28 years.
The fiancee’s sister, a few years ago, was married
to the fiancee’s brother, after a continuous court-
ship of 25 years. When deliberation like that gets
into a family it is incurable.
“Lord Roberts,” it is cabled, “ has directed the
senior officers of regiments to see that colonials
who receive commissions m regular regiments are
cordially treated.” This is clearly not gratuitous
advice. It has not been given until blank stares
and forgetfulness of the names and commissions of
“ colonials ” have made it necessary. Why, even
here, in private and at the mess-table, the valiant
Hector Macdonald was made to feel that he was
not the “best butter.” But it is when “ Colonial ”
brings his wife into the society of the “senior
officers’ ” wives that Bobs’ advice is acutely
needed.
Whilst at Ballarat recently the Duke of
Leinster visited the Benevolent Asylum and paid
“a high compliment” to the superintendent by
entering this in the visitors’ book : “I have never
seen anything like this institution before in any
country. The order, cleanliness, and general
arrangements are remarkable. — Leinster. ” Fancy
getting out of a kid of 16 and calling it a
compliment ! Anyhow, his entry is the stereo-
typed one that old travellers make in poor-house
books all over dear old Hingland. Reminds me
of Mark Twain’s “There’s nothing like that in
the Vatican. ”
One Australian woman’s doctor who is coming
to the front with rapid strides, has to assist him,
not only his very high professional skill, but a
deep knowledge of feminine nature. He is a neat,
pretty rather than handsome man, always
dresses irreproachably, and is rumored to have
spent quite an amount of time and money on
training his voice to a soft and caressing pitch.
When he speaks he simply exudes sweet and
gentle sympathy. Every patient is his dear per-
sonal friend ; every patient is oiie of the worthiest
women in the world, and is made to feel that she
is not nearly well enough treated, and that, if she
tit- l 1" deserts she would be occupying a Throne.
Withal there is not the slightest suggestion of
flirtation [that would ruin a doctor at once). Just
a respectful, far-away adoration, and a bountiful
sympathy—the attitude of a pious Italian to the
Mater Dolorosa of his prayers. This sort of thing
would make a doctor’s fortune even if he couldn’t
tell a headache from a broken ankle When it is
united to a very distinguished degree of skill it is
simply irresistible.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ There surely couldn’t have been a ‘sick-call ’
within a radius of 20 miles on Tuesday night, for
apparently every soggarth in the arch-diocese put
in an appearance at the first Castles concert. The
swell priest of the diocese, Rev. J. H. O’Connell,
whose parochial and Women’s Hospital Catmittee
duties permit many an hour’s recreation at
the Melbourne Club, headed a big party
with a row of seats at the rear of the vice-
regal party of three. During the interval the
Governor-General craned his neok round to the
pastor, apparently to say nice things about Amy’s
voice. The Countess, after a bow to the shepherd,
chatted with the most harmless aide ever drafted
into the Excellency’s fold—little Captain Duff.
“ Lady Hopetoun was a pattern of pinkish pro-
priety. She sat rigidly up in her pink satin outfit,
except when the shorn Scherek jerkily announced
that there was about to occur a flashlight snap,
when Her Ex. drew herself back a bit with all her
old prejudice against the camera-fiend. A cape of
white chiffon, draped with some fine old lace,
went to a digit point at the back and slanted at
the sides according to the latest vagaries of Dame
Chiffon. The black chignon of hair just showing
above the back slope was innocent of adornment.
This was the solitary instance of a coiffure without
mayonnaise dressing. Some of the thatches
around resembled barn-beams decked for a bucolic
festival. Ribbons were looped, tied, bowed,
twisted and garlanded about the crimped locks.
Bacchanalian wreaths described the circle of many
another. Most heads were over-ornamented.
“ By the way, the Countess is off to England to
take her small boy to school, soon as ever she can
spare a moment from helping ‘ Himself ’ to roll
the official chariot along.
“The chiffon triumph that the smilesome Amy
achieved immediately on appearing at her first
concert had not quite the brand of newness.
Probably this was the confection that went with
the London debut. But it was a foamy, rich,
cunning creation that made the diminutive form
of the singer appear a glass of fashion—as fashion
is nowadays. The waist-line was a small matter
to the figure. Real lace draped the corrugated
chiffon ground-work, and tinted ivory rib-
bon-strings in perpendicular line added inches
to the Bendigo girl’s height. Her repose of
manner and easy stand are matters of much
praise. It is good to see the handsomely-frocked
singer waiting for the opening symphony. She
makes a pretty picture. All of the Castles family,
by the way, seem now to tend towards smartness.
Amy Castles’voice to me was disappointing
this time. It’s, a beautiful voice of the light
soprano type but gone is the richness of yester-
year ! Amy sings better than she did, with more
culture, though there’s need still for coats and
coats of polish. But the voice has lost in body.
Once it was, or seemed so to many hearers, a full,
round voice with occasional touches of thrilling
pathos in its rich middle notes—a sort of glorified
edition of the Maggie Sterling kind of voice.
Now it’s tending, to my mind, to a small voice.
“ Some of the side-scenes were really amusing.
An enthusiastic Pat, perched on the lofty organ
roost, persisted in hurraying each fair performer
in a spirited manner, often with a flattering and
personal apostrophe. ‘ Good gurrl, Norah ! ’ was
how he addressed the Brisbane violiniste. Then,
‘Go it, Maud—you’re a darlint entoirely,’ to the
Sydney contralto of the Big Ben notes. And
‘ God bless you, Amy ! Long life to you ! and
she’s a beauty ! ’ And so on, and his neighbors
suffered in silence. He was the interpolating
Conroy of the House. Over the balcony edge
(the platform-limit) a beetle-browed Italian
oyster-saloonist leaned, watching for his com-
patriot—Dani. He waved, gesticulated, nodded,
smiled, and nearly precipitated himself over the
ledge as the dramatic tenor finished his roof-lift-
ing, and closed with his last silvery note. Dani
saw him, and smiled and nodded each time he
went on and off.
“ Among Miss Castles’ vegetable trophies was
an Irish harp wreath with pink roses, and posy of
chaste white chrysanthemums, tailed with vivid
green. Had the recipient kissed the ‘Blarney
stone,’ to any purpose, she would have clasped
these tributes to her corsage and watered them
with tears, but her flower-grabbing knack tactics
were off-handedly ‘ Australian. ’ It wasn’t Scherek’s
fault; he winked the other eye hard when he
handed the green-tagged tributes but the youngster
failed to bite. A good, honest colleen, truly, but
slow in the uptake !,
“ ‘Wearin’ of the Green’ quite general at first
Castles Concert! Emerald blouses, bows etc.
especially prevalent in south gallery and organ-
seats. Father Robinson, at the masthead, so to
speak, seemed nervous and worried in his
balcony look-out. His careworn look reminded
one of a suburban papa whose daughter is
persuaded to favor the company with ‘Lasca,’
recited with descriptive gestures.
“ There was a less brilliant crowd at the second
concert, though the very doors creaked with the
weight of the police and the late-comers who
crowded the entrances. The sacred V.R. reserve,
being unhonored by the State dignitaries, was
given over to the Castles family and a dignified
pastor’s party. The former made a quiet, unob-
trusive row-full. Papa Castles—a ruddy person-
age—was the most silent of all. He glanced
round the house with the eyes of a man of busi-
ness when a deafening thunder of hands and feet
burst from the inflated audience at the conclusion
of his daughter’s first song.
“The State V.R,. party, minus the Guv’nor,
who has been wending his way Adelaideward for
a week, with a mayoral reception at every station
stoppage, marched to their gallery seats at the
Castles Saturday concert, without the Gorsave
accompaniment. Furthermore, they left without
the bugle-blast, and had to stand the rough-and-
tumble exit down the stairs and passages with the
rest of humanity. The cherub-faced A.D.C. cast
indignant glances at the throng that mercilessly
elbowed Lady and Miss Clarke, but the looks
were lost on a devil-may-care throng who found
fun in their rib-punctures. The candid grey
head of Her Ex. snowed richly above a dead-
black cloak of lustreless silk, velvet and chiffon.
The one ewe-lamb, cloaked in black and a pale
pink scarf, looked pleasant and bright, as if
thoroughly enjoying herself, whether sitting in
state during the progress of the programme or
enduring the jamming of the crowd. Her spirits
and her health are evenly balanced.
“The Prime Minister and Senator O’Connor,
with a thin, anaemic attache, appeared before the
Castles’ number and sat in the neighborhood of
the V.R. pen. At the interval, Rev. G. Robinson
beckoned to the heavy-weight legislators, who
had heard the numbers before this in the stolid,
fixed, inanimate manner of a broody hen, and the
pair arose with alacrity and followed the inviting
digit. They returned in brighter spirits, and took
the rest of the entertainment in better humor.
Melbourne women who rave over the Barton
Homeric crown-piece wonder why it is attached
to so prosaic a body. It is an incongruity of
Nature that vexes many a mind.
“At one of the Castles concerts Astronomer
Baracchi kept his opera-glasses in active service
all the evening. He was noted by everyone, try-
ing to discover the new star, or an old one under
changed conditions. The weather-prophet’s wife
is one of the daintiest frockers in Melbourne, a
fair, fragile charmer with beautifully-coiffured
golden hair, and a figure on which all gowns are
decorated and tempered to the wearer’s particular
shapeliness. Another sister, Mrs. W. Quirk, is a
constant companion of Mrs. Baracchi, and a rival
in face, figure, and frocking. These two lily-like
graces are the daughters of the late Mr. Petty, of
Bourke-street, who made his pile in the meat-
trade.
“ There is fear of a miscarriage of good-nature
in the wild hoorays of some over Miss Castles, for
Amy has been subject to much unkind criticism
by hundreds of the public in consequence. The
wildest rumors have been set afloat as to the
channels into which that £5OOO will float from
Amy’s fair hands. All very ridiculous rumors.
But why are her friends so ostentatious to the
young singer ? They would do much more good
by stealth.
“Senator O’Connot, who impresses Melbourne
fearsomely with the front of Jove himself and an
eye like Mars to threaten and command, and
such a great hoarding of starched linen across his
chest, took up the cudgels for the Women
Suffragists in the Senate last week. The severe-
looking gallery spectators in ‘specs’ looked
gratified and hugely pleased with the efforts of
the unexpected champion. The twinkling eyes of
old John Downer (who dearly likes a pretty face,
and boasts one in • his wife’s well-lighted and
comely countenance) availed him not as he essayed
to make skittles and contempt of woman’s en-
franchisement. He quoted the indifference of
Adelaide women to the vote, said sarcastic things
with a smile, curling the corners of his mouth and
describing scrolls about his stumpy nose, and
generally coiled himself about the subject in a
way to provoke the sympathetic humor of the
Suffragists in the gallery.
“The musical world was'interested m the
marriage of Miss Millie Tree Chapman, a soprano
of the Sing-Sweet-Bird order, often starring in
amateur Operatic shows, with Mr. Harry Lionel
Wilson, of Melbourne. The event came off at St.
Thomas’ Church, Essendon, on Wednesday after-
noon last. Miss Chapman’s dress was one with a
history. It is claimed to have been worn originally
by an eminent person, a daughter of actor Charles
Kean. The lady, who died a few years ago, was a
cousin of Miss Chapman’s father, and the dress
came out from his London relatives as a family
gift to the bride, an ivory satin almost yellowed
with age, but a rich thing. The voluminous gown
was cut down and built up to to day’s fashion
plates. Miss Chapman is a bird-like figure, small,
thin, but bright-eyed. A younger sister is en-
gaged to Horace polite and melan-
choly churchy warbler.
“ Hobart girls hug a legitimate grievance. Tas-
mania, as we all know, has always been short of
men, and Melbourne girls have been louder than
anyone in their denunciations of its dead-and-
alive, under-manned condition. Now, the Island
boasts an eligible bachelor—Captain Gaskell,
aide to Gov. Havelock. This Summer, Melbourne
spinsters rushed Hobart, with an eye to Miss
Hobart’s one pet-lamb, so to speak. The invaders
and their mothers conducted the siege with great
energy, and, in spite of their hostesses, stayed on
and on till the cold weather set in, and they were
forced back to Melbourne and Winter quarters.
Tasmaniennes, who know they look well in
Winter (they’re apt to seem fat and florid in hot
weather) hope to storm the Gaskell fort before
the Uitlander ‘cats’ cross the Strait again for
next Summer’s campaign.
“Two weddings of interest are on the tapis:
Dr. Rupert Hornabrook, of S’African celebrity, is
to marry Miss Winifred Sargood, of Rippon Lea,
Elsternwick, early next month in the Presbyterian
Church, Prahran, Yic. The bridesmaids are to
wear short white coats and skirts, blue hats
trimmed with autumn leaves, and are to carry
tawny chrysanthemums. And Miss May Brook-
man, daughter of George Brooltman, whose lucky
kick brought to the light, not only himself, but
also the Great Boulder Mine, casts in her lot
with Dr. George Wilson (formerly of Armidale,
N.S.W.) early in June. Her bridesmaids are also
wearing white serge and autumn leaves, and blue
hats, but the white dresses are to be trimmed with
fur.
“Large slices of letters from King Wilson
Barrett, quoted in every second English theatrical
or sprat-colored paper you pick up, show how
busily the brummy dramatist and Salvation
drummer works to let the world know he is alive
and strutting.
(Continued, on page 26.)


■
BULLETIN SUBSCRIBERS^-
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing, whose distant vision is dull and who suffer
from persistent headaches or pains after close application—you
may rest assured that you are suffering from Ageing or
Impaired Vision, and Need Glasses. You should visit
us, and have your sight scientifically tested, and be supplied
with Glasses adapted to your individual case.
TO COUNTRY READERS who cannot visit us personally, we send, Post Free to any address, with full instruc-
tions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT. By its use
you can Test your own sight and determine for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you may need.
Write for it to—
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Consulting Optician,
371 George St., Sydney,
next door to the A.J.S. Bank.
King and George Streets.
Andat 232 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, opposite Age Office.
Australia
’•Lightest , Wines
n
Supplied to H.R.H. the Duke of York.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Seddon’s Own— the Bushveldt Buccaneers.
Reynolds’ Newspaper, London, knows
Mr. Richard Seddon as “ the Frozen Meat
Patriot.”
They might at least have been aware at the
War Office that there was no Australian call for
outside talent in the ‘ ‘ language ” line.
King O’Malley, jester and favorite in the
House of Reps., withal a sturdy democrat, is said
to be a martyr to some internal ailment.
Mr. Flannery, who goes to the Corona-
tion as Mr. Barton’s private secretary is, like Mr.
Barton himself, a Sydney University man.
Miss Florence Balgarnie, the recently-
arrived prohibition advocate, points her best plat-
form story with —“Young man, you never had
twins! ”
Freetrade pressmen protest that solemn
Lee, leader of N.S.W. Opposition, is the heaviest
political load they ever tried to lift on the point
of a pen.
It has been going the rounds of the English
press that B. R. Wise has been appointed Federal
High Commissioner in London. Some papers
have given a sketch of his career.
Sydney Worker says that Minister Crick
wished to appoint Mr. T. M. Slattery as N.S.W.
Crown Solicitor. Surely that is a mistake. Wasn’t
the proposed appointee Mr. Heydon ?
Amiable E. B. L. Dickens had in London
Daily News a longer obituary than the N.S.W.
papers gave him, the tie being in the fact that
Dickens, sen., was the News’ first editor.
John Douglas, King of Thursday Island,
goes to London to meet other Royalties at the
Coronation. He is now 74, and has spent over 50
years in the public life of N.S.W. and Queensland.
Mr. Chamberlain, it is gravely recorded in
an English paper, doesn’t wear socks, but “stock-
ings up to the knee.” Blood-red stockings, no
doubt. He has waded in gore just about that far.
“Janny” Leahy, Q. Minister for Rail-
ways, is member for Bulloo, and represents 287
voters and 15,000,000 rabbits. He used to re-
present a lot of cattle, but the drought thinned
them out.
The cockiness of political cockatoos : E. C.
V. Broughton, M.L.A., the fatal accident of a
Sydney electorate, notifies that he “is approached
daily by members of the public, requesting,” etc.
“Approached”!
With George Reid’s rapid progress as a
barrister there is just as rapid a falling-off as a
politician. The papers now complain of Mr. Reid
wasting time with his “patter” on his infrequent
visits to the House.
Cathcart Mason, the ex-Maoriiander who
sits in the Commons for Orkney and Shetland,
spends his time in the House knitting stockings.
But the Conservative whip frowns, and the sinner
promises to knock it off.
Brother Rupert’s pa-in-law, John Hors-
fall, of Widgiewa (N.S.W.), should just about
pull off a bauble stake at the Coronation meeting
—he’s going well and won’t have time to get
“stale.” By the way, it is a curious spectacle—
mild little Horsfall giving advice to a crowd of
farm-burners and writing bellicose letters to the
press.
ROBERT
BROUGH.
A backblocks M.L.A. hands about a
lately-received invitation-card. The card requests
his company, with that of “other distinguished
personages,” to witness the new butcher of Pine
Greek “killing his first pig.”
Suppose Dill Macky and Cardinal Moran
had been changed in their cradles, who would
have known any difference ? Dill Macky would
have made a first-class Cardinal, and Cardinal
Moran would have made a first-rate Dill Macky.
Editor Bulletin. —Re “ Australia’s
Noblest Son ” (Bulletin, 5/4/’O2). This appella-
tion did not originally emanate from Australian
Star, as stated. ’Twas at the declaration of the
poll at Kempsey, after Barton’s victory over Syd.
Smith, that Rev. H. R. D. Kelly first tacked
same to the Prime Minister.—E.A.E.
Bishop Cooper, of Grafton and Armidale,
has the unique experience of being associated with
three bishoprics in two years. He was suffragan
Bishop of Ballarat, is Bishop of Grafton, and was
elected the other day Bishop of Gippsland. He
will stay where he is.
A god-daughter of Governor Macquarie,
Mrs. Elizabeth Harriett Macquarie Coulson, died
at Bayswater Road, Sydney, last December, aged
87 years, and a godson of Macquarie, William
Macquarie Cowper, Dean of Sydney, aged 92
years, is passing away as this is written.
Rich people, when cyanided in the Probate
Court, rarely clean-up for as much as has been
expected. The cases of Tyson and Bart. Clarke
are in point. Lewis Lloyd, the big N.S.W.
copper-man, who was suspec.ted to be worth at
least a quarter-of-a-million, has, it appears, left
just about £lOO,OOO.
“ P. 8.” : Got a temporary job, last week,
addressing wrappers for an advertising firm, and
came across many curious names. A few : Faust
O’Grady, Caesar Murphy, Emilius Crook, Colum-
bus Fitzpatrick, Napoleon Buonaparte Johnson,
Horatio Blogg, Cleopatra Maguire, and (begorra)
Patrick Joseph Sarsfield Higgins.
David Syme milks 1000 cows at Killara, a
small station between Lilydale and Warburton
(Vic.), which he bought some years ago from
Melba’s father—one David Mitchell. David S.
now runs a public house, a coffee palace, a dairy,
two sheep stations, two newspapers—and occasion-
ally, the Government of Victoria.
Archbishop Murphy, of Tasmania, now-
visiting Sydney, performed the last rites of his
church over the remains of Daniel O’Connell in
1847. He and Pope Leo are the only prelates
alive appointed by Pope Gregory XVI. He is 87
years of age and was Bishop of Hyderabad, India,
before arriving in Tasmania.
When tall Bishop Armstrong, the new
lord spiritual of Wangaratta (Vic.), was incumbent
of St. Colombs’, Hawthorn (Melb.), he married a
Miss Henty, and soon expanded into an arch-
deacon. The Henty family has considerable
influence in the Anglican church, and Rev. Arm-
strong is a man of ability. The ability brought
him the Episcopal gaiters, and the influence
buttoned them on for him—or vice versa.
R. J. Gray, Commissioner for Q. Rail-
ways, who has been granted six months’ leave on
full pay preparatory to retirement, has been 36
years in the civil service. Deputy-Commissioner
Thallon, who has virtually run the Railway
Department for the last year, during Gray’s ill-
ness, is to carry on the Commissioner’s work and
will then be promoted. Gray gets £2OOO per
annum and Thallon £l2OO, which arrangement is
rather rough on the latter.
S. Judge Bundey, who is a confirmed
valetudinarian, will retire from the bench on
pension directly his term of 20 years is complete—
he has served 18 of them—and then, if Parliament
has not meanwhile repealed the third Judge Act,
Attorney-General Gordon will realise his ambi-
tion. Both Way and Boucaut have served their
20 years, but as they cannot conscientiously
declare that they are “unfit to perform their
duties,” they cannot claim their pensions (£l3OO
annually).
The old Queen has died—nothing worse so
far as is generally known, and yet folks must
imagine some hidden offence whenever they pass
her statue in Chancery-square, Sydney. The un-
kempt grass lies about the base of the pedestal like
a bedraggled skirt, and the “decoration beds ” of
Commonwealth time are faded like the brocade of
a has-been garment raked off a rubbish-heap.
Can’t the price of one of the bottles to be popped
at Coronation time be spared just to make
“ the old mawther’s ” place look a Sit decent ?
What a dangerous thing is an Australian
certificate of character ! A Collarendabri corres-
pondent to Sydney D.T. :
Lieut. Morant was well-known throughout this district.
No one can entertain the idea that he was capable of a
cowardly action. He was always considered kind, and
his pluck was undeniable. He has been known repeatedly
to ride an unbroken colt against a wire fence, with the
remark that he would either ride him over or break his
neck.
He was a kind-hearted man, and would kill a
horse on the slightest provocation.
Jimmy Carroll (Timi Kara), half-caste
member of the Seddon Ministry, who sits for
Waiapu, and represents the native race in the
Cabinet, has given up tobacco and alcohol.
Those who remember Timi, when he was the
life and soul of the Savage (Parliamentary)
Club at Bellamy’s (the M.L. Parliamentary
rooms), can scarcely believe the fact. “Medi-
cal advice” is the reason, and already the
patient’s health has so improved that he
would make a splendid advertisement for
cold water.
Related that, when in Samoa, R. L.
Stevenson’s mother struck up a friendship
with a chief whose love for his fellow-man
had formerly been strictly gastronomic.
Mrs. R. L., bantering the old lady on the
strange intimacy, remarked: “You must
remember that this is a man who has
killed and eaten hundreds of people.”
“ Oh, Fanny, how can you say so ? ” replied
old Mrs. S., indignantly, “ you know it was
only eleven.”
Barrister “ Charlie ” Fitzgerald, defeated
for Mitchell (Q.) at his recent election, was at one
time a volunteer officer, but resigned over some
grievance and publicly broke his sword over his
knee. He has now resumed practice at Long-
reach, but ill-luck pursues him as the recent fire
there burned his office and destroyed his law
library. A. C. Cooper, returned for Mitchell,
won rather easily, though it was his first political
try. Almost simultaneously with his political
victory came the news that he had inherited a
£60,000 legacy.
“ Fossicker” to The Bulletin :
Morris Oollman, the best friend the Bendigo miner
ever had, is lying very ill in Bendigo Hospital. He was
the original owner of the celebrated Collman and Tacchi
A PLAGUE OF RUMOR.
" One can never believe half one hears, theris so
much scandal going about."
Yes, And the habit is so catching-I myself
can hardly believe a quater of what I say."
lease, and is now 73 years old. In the early quartz
mining days he gave his employees the 8-hour boon, and
paid for all holidays. He left Bendigo for his native
Germany in ’67, and lost his coin in speculating. After
the Franco-German war there was an antipathy in Ger-
many to Jews (Collman is Hebrew), and he returned to
Bendigo in ’74, a broken-hearted man. Few of either the
wealthy local men or of the workers know that the kindly
old man is near his end. Prosperity has always friends.
Adversity discovers your true sympathisers.
Justice A. H. Simpson becomes Vice-
Chancellor of Sydney University on the retire-
ment of Renwick, M.L.C., “the little doctor.”
Physically, Justice Simpson is considerably less.
Mr. Simpson is purely legal and scholastic. The
chances are that he could not tell, without looking
up a reference book, who is Premier of N.S.W.,
but he knows at once who is Attorney-General,
and every other item in the sphere of law. He
was distinguished in his course in Cambridge, and
in practice in London achieved eminence as a
draftsman. He has only been about 20 years in
Sydney.
As to General Hutton’s “ damns,” it is the
traditional right of the British officer to swear at
his men. The Duke of Cambridge used to set a
good example in this respect. There is a pleasant
yarn of one case wherein a wicked private, who
hated church, insisted on being a Mohammedan.
Neither Captain nor Colonel would have it, and
the soldier, as every soldier may, appealed to the
Field-Marshal. “ What ? Hey ! Interfere with a
man’s blanky religious privileges ? Damme no !
Damme ! You can’t do that ! Turn blanky
Mohammedan if you like, Why not? But,
harkee now, don’t you let your damned Turk
tricks go outside what religious privilege allows. ”
One fat official, who received £250 for his
services during Commonwealth celebration and
Duke o’ York time, did little but rush round in a
very tight suit and a crimson flush by day, and
recite “ Bill Jinks ”by night. At about 1 a.m. it
was always considered time to pull his leg for
“ Bill Jinks,” and it is reckoned that he recited
the heathen thing nine times in five nights. Once
he narrowly escaped inflicting it on royalty. He
got his £250 for reciting evidently, and now about
a score of people who listened to the recitations
are putting in claims for thousands of pounds
com pensation.
Bishop Goe, who has just gone down from
the see in a ship, smiled almost as rarely as Queen
Victoria, but he caused many a smile in others.
Once the old bishop took a book and made himself
comfortable in a corner of the Fitzroy gardens.
The book was a theological one, so presently he
fell asleep. He was awakened by a policeman.
“Come come, sorr, hadn’t ye bhetter be goin’
home?” Then the veteran cleric saw that an
empty bottle lay on the seat beside him, his
bishop’s hat was cocked leerily over the eye of a
plaster Venus near by, and in his hand was a
ragged copy of one of Zola’s warmest. The Bishop
never read in the Gardens again—not theological
works, anyway.
A Bulletin correspondent reminisces re
Rhodes: —
I first saw Cecil Rhodes while he was with the Chartered
Co.’s troops during the second Matabele campaign. Later
on, I had an interview with him at Buluwayo. The
“Colossus” was staying at the Maxim Hotel. I went
down at about 10 a.m., and after some palaver with a
secretary was shown in. The great man was in bed, and
judging by the appearance of the room, had been dic-
tating letters from beneath the blankets. My business
concerned a mate whose arm had been damaged for life
in the Raid; after promising that my friend should have
a soft Govt, billet (which he got), Rhodes asked me what
I was doing. I told him making tracks for Australia.
He said : “ This is a fine new country and ought to suit
you very well, besides we want you Australians over
here.” After a bit more talk he offered, and I accepted,
a job on his farm in the Matoppos. Rhodes spent
thousands on this farm, running it as a sort of experi-
mental place, where everything was done absolutely
regardless of cost. I had a pretty good thing on, but
after the rinderpest had killed all the cattle, and the
locusts had eaten up every leaf and blade of green-stuff
on the place, I got “full” and left. The total absence,
since the siege of Kimberley, of Rhodes’ name from all
matters connected with the war he did so much to bring
about, is significant. With many friends among the
Dutch throughout S’Africa, and while, to a large extent,
in full sympathy with them, he, the practical
man of action, allowed the sentiment of “ painting
the map red ” to run away with his reason.
The Jamieson Raid shows clearly how lightly he regarded
the question of overthrowing the Transvaal Govt. Foiled
in this attempt he set the South African press (over which
he had an almost complete control) to work, thinking
that a short, sharp struggle would end the matter, and
that the Boers, finding little practical difference in the
two systems of Govt., would accept the new order of
things with little demur. Instead of fulfilling his ex-
pectations the progress of the war has surely shown that
by this last great act he has made the realisation of his
life’s dream impossible. And he has died knowing full
well that though the sullen submission of a bruised and
bleeding fragment of the Boer nation may be brought
about, yet his object will not be achieved, for the cost
will be out of all ’proportion to the result, and cen-
turies will not now unite the two white races in Sout h
Africa.
Dear Bulle-
tin. Amidst
all the conflict-
ing and rapidl in-
growing-gorier
yarns about the
Bushveldt Car-
bineers and their
“murdered ” cap-
tain (who wasn’t
murdered at all),
I have not dis-
covered one com-
ment on the fact
that the precious
Captain Hunt
was “ late of the
Hussars.” Evi-
dently Hunt was
a wrong ’uri. The
ousted Hussar,
who became the
bosom friend of
a man like Mo-
rant (as / knew
him) must have
been a d : d
wrong ’un. Yet
we are gravely assured by pals of these ingloriously
defunct ruffians that Morant said he got his mur-
derous instructions from Hunt, who had said he
got his instructions from some superior officer.
Such statements are as worthless as the “word
of Morant and Hunt on any other subject. Nor
does the alleged “gameness” of Morant in facing
his doom suggest that he wasn’t as base and cruel
as God makes them. It was the rule, rather than
the exception, for treacherous murderers to “ die
game” at Tyburn and Newgate when they had
sympathetic audiences to play to. The highway-
man stepped on to the gallows jauntily, with a
straw between his teeth, and the lady poisoner
smiled like the angel she was about to be.
Immoral courage is essential to utter villany.—E.
Writes “ Tackra ” :
There was once a lunatic who used to come round a
certain Sydney evening paper office, and suggest articles
on these lines—“ How God would run an evening paper’
—“The Egyptian’s opinion of newspaper men”—
“ Astronomy as a lost art.” The patient editor used to
smile and say, “ Ah, yes, just so ; but we really have no
room,” and the lunatic used to slip away. At last he
came in with a screed on “ I am the Son of God, receive
me,” and the editor said, “Get out!” when the lunatic
said, “ Peter, you have denied me thrice, but I will be
lenient to thee.” He left in a hurry, the editor using
words that pained him. Next day a letter came to the
editor from Strathfield, reading thus Dear sir,—l
have forgiven you ; will you send me some old clothes, for
I wish to make a triumphal entry into Jerusalem to-
morrow. lam the son of God ! and please remember this
when we meet, and strew palms before me. I shall need
a hat as well as the clothes—send them out by a messen-
ger to-day. Kindly meet me at the station with a band,
and Sir George Reid, and the editors of the papers, and
more of the elect.”
RE THE CORONATION
"The Crown's is that the office connot descend
through coparceners. It seems only natural to object to
being dressed in sections, one-half by Lord Cholniondeley,
one-quater by Lord Ancaster, and one-quater by Lord
Carrington. The services of one experienced valet would
surely be of more value than the combined eforts of the
four peer flunkeys. Elaborate questions of pedigres,
decent, feudal tenures, and awards of the Crown are
Ye good King Edward is dressed by four inez
perienced peers. It seems only natural to object.
It is theorised by unreliable persons in
Maoriland that Seddon will succeed Ranfuriy as
Governor of that province, and of the great South
Sea Confederated Bubble whereof it is to be the
centre. It is to be hoped the event does happen,
though the idea is too beautiful to be true. A
British Government with any sense of humor
would try the experiment. Seddon in a state of
dignified repose—Seddon in comparative silence,
and not expected to have political opinions, or, at
least, not expected to express them—Seddon going
round in a state of cold reticence with a suite and
not allowed to lash out at anybody or anything—
Seddon as a mild automaton being guided by the
advice of some politician whom he used to frizzle
up with one big glare in the House of Reps.—it
would be like a whirlwind getting a billet as a
tombstone, or a prayer-meeting, or a pint of ice-
cream.
Related—was it of Jay Gould —that his
handwriting was so bad as to be illegible to the
old man himself. A letter of his replying to an
application for employment on one of his numer-
ous railways was, on the strength of the signature,
used by the recipient as a pass over the line for
many years. In later days the typewriter has
done much to prevent fraud and mistakes formerly
traceable to bad writing. Had J.G., like The
Bulletin, used a “New Century machine his
reputation as a letter-writer would be better to-
day New Century Typewriters, the latest from
Yankee-land, are sold by the United Typewriter
and Supplies Co., of Sydney, Melbourne and
Perth.*


. . THE VERY BEST . •
fflaconochie’s
DELICIOUS PRESERVES
Fbesii Herrings. Kippered Herrings.
Herrings in Tomato Sauce. Pickles.
Worcester Sauce. Potted Meats. Marmalade.
SWIFT «Sc COMPANY,
7 Spring Street, Sydney.
. . . Australian Agents.
The HANSARD Fountain Pen
Fine, Medium, or Broad Points. One Quality—The Best; One Price—The Lowest, 7/6 (Post Paid).
(Authorised by Hansard Staff).
14ct. GOLD NIB.
Barrel of every Pen branded “ The Hansard.” ACOEPT NO SUBSTITUTE. All Stationers ; or sent to any
address on receipt of price. HANSARD PEN CO., Box 98, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Hotel
Australia
BATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
“ THE AUSTRALIA ” is loftily situated ; from
its dome, the Pacific Ocean can be seen, and the
whole of Sydney.
To its favorable and airy position, “ THE
AUSTRALIA” adds every comfort and appoint-
ment. It is fireproof from tower to basement;
and an efficient staff patrols the building; day and
night. It possesses the most elegant of drawing-
rooms, handsomely appointed dining-rooms, cosy
bar lounges and winter gardens. The system
and attendance of the hotel are unsurpassable.
J. URE SMITH (Late of Menzies’), Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.— ln the case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
“ Will J.” : Pity the casual stock-inspector
wasn’t employed hoeing potatoes, or peremptorily
knocked on the head. The scores of wrecks at pre-
sent in harness on a certain Yic. irrigation channel
are discreditable to all concerned. Hacks, foals,
and decrepit ancients are compelled to climb steep
banks for eight hours daily. Raw shoulders,
blood, festers, and torn hides are familiar sights ;
and the 200 gallons of water provided for 120
horses at dinner-time cause a precipitous rush for
the troughs, where none obtain a proper drink,
and few any drink at all. One and a half hours
are allowed for dinner, but many a wretched beast
has his scanty bit polished-off in 20 minutes. ’Tis
a common thing for a team of four to come down
heavily when half-way to the surface, sustaining
fresh bruises, and re-opening old ones. Also,
where a temporary bough-shed would break the
cold wind at night, there isn’t even a rug for the
unfortunates. Most of the work is being done by
the pro.-note cookie, whose humane creditors
demand profits and forbid expenditure—at the
expense of helpless brutes.
* * * *
“ A C.” : Be “ Domino ” and making
horses pull per tail. This practice is exquisitely
cruel to the horse. In’93, at a South Coast col-
liery, the underground boss placed the hitching-
ehain around a jibbing horse’s tail, and flogged
the animal until it was compelled to trot along
with 20 empty skips behind it. He duly appeared
at the local police court, charged with cruelty, and
HIS UP-SET PRICE.
BOSS (to black-boy who has been thrown from his hourse): "Hullo, Jacky, got spilt, they tell me?"
JACKY: "My word, Mr. Jones. Can't expeck me to stay on at nine bob a week."
was sent up for three months’ hard. On being
searched in the cell the lockup-keeper found £l5
in gold on him, which prisoner said he drew to pay
the fine. The animal died from injury to the
spine.
* » * *
Writes “Old Stoney " :
Dear Bulletin, —Theoretically the members of the
A.W.U. may vote the bosses into power, but somehow
the same old push always runs the show. And I never
knew of any delegate stating his views before election.
Last year the men were not consulted as to the altera-
tions in the agreement, neither hav e they been consulted
now as to the proposed rise to 255. I quite agree with
“ Bob R.” (B. 5/4/’O2) and shall be very sorry to see the
new Union go under. If it does, may the Lord have
mercy on the unfortunate shearers, for the A.W.U. will
have none if they rule the roost. Is it not approaching
tyranny when a member is compelled to subscribe to The
Worker, and is not the membership fee of £1 per year an
extortion, considering that the shearer may not travel
but simply shear locally and perhaps only earn £lO in the
season? Anyone reading The Worker or listening to a
delegate would imagine that the sole object of a squatter’s
existence was to raise sheep and to fight the shearers
about the shearing.
* • * •
“ Trotter ” ; The country around Hughen-
den and Winton (W.Q.) is in a truly deplorable
state. There’s no hope for the sheep-man; to
travel stock is out of the question without grass or
water. On a station near Richmond, that used
to depasture 50,000 sheep, all the stock died during
the past three years ; now the owner takes other
men’s sheep on agistment, and finds it pays, too !
The bores are gradually throwing less water;
some have almost stopped running, and some
quite. How does the underground river theory
come in ?
V • * *
“Eller”: The drought is costing one
station in Forbes (N.S.W.) district £lOO a day
for artificial feed, besides having 70,000 sheep
away on rented country.
Parson Fuller, of St. George (Q-), has
recently been admonished for neglecting the
spiritual welfare of his scattered flock in the out-
lying portions of that God-forsaken parish. In
defending himself in the columns "of the local
paper the poor pastor refers his accusers to the
annual statement of church accounts, and says that
“ the amount contributed to the church funds by
the country people amounts to £l3 and some odd
td° cjS SIS whot,
country shows not upon its wea ry face anything
which is of an practica i use amongst the diges-
tive organs of a h orS6i the poo r parson is blamed
for not travelling constantly a district larger than
Englandon the microscopic sum of £l3 per annum.”
*i j once travelled some hundreds of weary miles,”
he con tinues, “on and with a bicycle in order to
supp i y a i arge district with church services. The
answer of the whole of tha t district to this effort
wag the sum of £l _» Poor shepherd !
, . * . . , , , ~
Queenstown (Tas.) is the wet spot of the
Commonwealth (unless Zeehan, m the same dis-
trict, gets ahead of it). Last year it enjoyed 209
wet days, and a rainfall of 95’03m. It rained 22
days in Sept, for 10‘09in., and in Oct. 20 days for
a trifle of 12'90in. Think of it, ye battlers out at
the back o’ Bourke ! In Nov., 1898, it rained on
29 days, and 17‘05in. were registered. They often
pray for dry weather in Queenstown, but get it
no oftener than sun-parched Centralians get rain
by similar methods.
* * * *
The Q. police have a tough job ahead to
capture the desperate highwaymen now roaming
the Mitchell district. They will probably make
for the ranges at the head of the Dawson. Those
who have seen both districts consider the Q. place
equal to the puzzle-ranges in Victoria where Ned
Kelly and co. planted for so long.
“ J impair ” : Said Secretary Baker, of the
Tweed River (N.S.W.) Dairymen’s Association,
t’other day :
The ordinary man who has not travelled through the
Big Scrub district has no idea of the enormous population
that could be profitably supported there. The rainfall is
very regular, and so we know little of droughts. Just
now I know some farmers who are mowing the grass in their
paddocks to keep it from turning rank.
\ T . . , ~, w
Yet in many parts of the Western Plains there
has not been a blade of grass for six or seven
years. Eerily, Australia is a land of anomalies
and extremes.
* * * *
<< D.H.R.” : In answer to “ Myall.” The
~j , A ,
reason why horse-doctors do not try to find a
remedy for the effects of “Darling pea,” is simply
that, once the plant has been eaten, it produces
an inordinate craving for more, and the affected
animal wjn wander over good grass till almost
starved, in search of pea Some horses, however,
thrive and grow fat on the pea. Writer knew one
moke, 30 years old, which had eaten a deal of pea
in his time, and was in no way the worse for it.
Some horses, again, will not touch the pea until
compelled by absolute starvation. The only
possible remedy is to hand-feed, when the habit
will, in some cases, gradually wear off, or at least
become abeyant.
* * • »
“ Merlyn ” : Re bush-fire-fighting. I was
j n the Wantabadgery locality during the big fires
in Jan last> and foimd that the punip . carts did
splendid work. Of course water was plentiful,
tne river and several lagoons and watercourses
being right at hand. Where, however, water had
to be sent by rail, I agree with “Will J.” (B.
W ° Uld
ON A QUEENSLAND PRICKLY-PEAR
SELECTION.
"We start elearing the first tree."
“ Yarrum ” : Travelling once, up Coota-
mundra way, I ran out of matches, and made for
a homestead near the road to buy or borrow some.
The missus explained : “Matches! We haven’t
had any in the house since we’ve bin here — 10
years. See that fire,” she went on, pointing to
the big fireplace, “ it hasn’t been what you would
call out for five years, and then we borrowed a
fire-stick from a neighbor. We always banks her
up last thing at night with ashes, and then we has
live embers in the morning.”
“ Mar ” : Blown into my ear during
a recent chin-cleaning at barber’s:
“ That’s Blank from Sydney (referring to
a departed shaven one), just come up t’
’ave a look at ther mine. Blime ! a real
decent toff! Down in Sydney, when I
wuz graftin’ in a big George-st. saloon,
Blank and his chums were reg’ler birds
of ours, an’ me an’ Foxy stood well with
’em. No wing about them, altho’ they
were gilt up to ther ears. Diff’rent to
the blanky tray-bit coves ’oo ’ad only
about a sprat between ’em and bank-
rup’cy. The style these jossers ’ud put
on. Whew ! ” (Here the lather dried on
my visage while the narrator took
breath). “Foxy was putten one of ’em
through one day, when the blanky toe-
ragger ordered him to wash his hands
twice. Ther boss gives me ther nod to go
on with the chap while Foxy’s a doin’ it
ther secon’ time, and I knows Foxy’s
cake is dough with the boss. I wuz
that wild w’en I thort of his wife and
kids that I could’r jagged that tray-bit’s
jug’ler straight out, 1 takes’im on and,
w’out chippin’ a pore even, gives him
ther roughest go ’e ever ’ad in his life.
Kept blamin’ ’im all ther wile, too, f’r
movin’ his face. At last I grows real
savage and brings the razor like a flash
from ’is neck right up to ’is lips, straight-
edge on, without shiftin’ a bit ’r skin.
S’bruth ! he thort I’d done ’im in, and he
bucked clean over the chair-back with a
yell and flopped on ’is neck. I cracks
he’s got a fit, and drops on ’is chest, pulls
his collar off, and dowses ’im with the
lather-pot, but just as I’m
goin to put the finishin’
touch the boss takes me
in the ribs with his boot
—an’ I passed. Next day
I met Foxy and, blime l
'e was lookin’ for a job,
too ! ”
* * *
“ Tonbur”: Travelled
recently per Springsure-
Emerald railway (C.Q.) with a
Chow, a nigger, three gins, and
two pickaninnies—the only other
passengers.
* ♦ *
“A. J.” : When in S. Queens-
land recently, met a mob of horses
travelling down to N.S.W. Was
told by drover that they were
mostly rejects from a batch,
shipped at Rockhampton, for
Imp. Govt. On inquiring what
would be done with them, got
the answer: “ We’ll pick up some
more as we go down, and send ’em
all up together. Oh yes, it’ll
come off right, you bet; we don’t
buy much that we can’t work in
on Bull, sooner or later.”
Tramping in N.Q. in search of work Pete
and Joe struck, one afternoon, a particularly
vivid smell. “Thunder !” said Pete, “let’s push
on quicker and leave that! ” “You go on,” said
Joe —“I’m going to see what it is.” “Well,”
said Pete, later on, when Joe rejoined him, “ did
you have a good sniff?” “Yes”; said Joe; “it
was only a horse. But the reason I went to have
a look was this. Travelling out-back once with a
mate, we struck something like that, and passed on
as you did to-day. Next day a trooper reported a
dead Chow lying near the spot where we got ‘ the
whiff ” and brought in 65 sovereigns. That’s what
he said he found on the body; but the Lord only
knows what he did find.
* * * *
Wallumbilla (W.Q.) tells about a local
youngster who suffered from deafness. One
morning the mother noticed something unusual
in the child’s ear. Extracted the something and
found a grain of wheat, which had germinated,
opened out and exhibited fine rootlets. Naturally
the deafness disappeared immediately.
Dsar Bulletin. — You say to “Condob.” :
“ Why shouldn’t the country
doctor be allowed to charge
fees for paying-patients in
the hospital ? He has got
a hard enough row to hoe
without having to attend
well-to-do people in hos-
pitals.” Here’s a why: A
paying-patient in hospital
should receive no more
care than the bruised
swagman ; but he does. I
have been of both sorts.
The doctor, unless he is a
gentleman, gives you time,
the nurses hang around and
smile, the wardsman winks
at irregularities, the cook
takes the thick of the soup
for you (and fills up with
water), and the committee
crawl to you for a favorable
piece of butter in the local
rag. Fees for services ren-
dered in the hospital should belong
to the hospital. —Scotty W.
« * •» *
The goats have been the salvation of
Western Queensland during the drought, inas-
much as they have provided milk and “mutton” for
whole districts. In one town, writer saw a boy
driving a minature table-top waggon with team of
10 goats. The equipment was complete, and the
waggon a model, costing £3O. The youth was
coining money—drawing water at 3s. a load.
• * * •
“ Fitz ” : Large patches of timber, some-
times 50 acres in extent, are dying, as a result of
the drought. Same thing occurred during the
terrible ’49-’5O drought. t
• * » * /
A too-good-natured station-owner in the
Far West who was much imposed on by visitors,
callers for the night, etc., hit upon the idea of
turning his house into an hotel. He got a license
and waited for the guests, but they never came.
He kept the concern going at a dead loss for a few
months, then closed it up, and has not since been
troubled.
• » * »
“ Spring,” re the curiosity of birds :
When the green parakeets of the coastal districts—after
banquetling all day on the mountain slopes—are going
home to roost in the thicker timber towards the coast,
they fly swift and strong, and seem incapable of being
stopped ; yet writer has stopped them by simply whistl-
ing at an ordinary pitch. At the sound the flock hesi-
tates, swerves, and finally swoops down to investigate.
Gill-birds also are considered curious, because they come
far and near at the cries of a “winged” companion. I
think thisis less curiosity than a desire to see the other bird’s
funeral- very often it’s their own. Again, the white
cockatoo, though as shy as the crow, is extremely
inquisitive. A certain corn-grower’s crop was left un-
touched while neighbor’s crops were ruined by cookies ;
but, to make even surer, the exempted one rigged-up a
choice article in scarecrows. Next morning he found a
dozen cookies carefully examining the strange object,
while a host of others were sampling his corn. The
scarecrow had brought them to investigate !
* * * *
Mr. Neil Neilsen, M.L.A., Booroowa,
writes to The Bulletin :
A par appeared in “ Aboriginalities”*a few weeks ago,
signed “ Bunny,” describing an alleged occurrence at the
Galong Hotel. The subject-matter of that par is too
palpably ridiculous and malicious to need categorical
contradiction by me, but as it contains a gross libel upon
one of the best-kept country hotels in N.S.W., I wish to
say that I am prepared to give £lO to any charitable in-
stitution if “Bunny” can prove that the statements
made in the par in question are either true—or substanti-
ally true.
HE WOULD NOT BE THERE.
NIPPER: "Goin' to the Coranshun, Sammy?"
SAMMY: "No, Nipper. The old man's collectin'
bones en' bottles en' I 'as ter 'elp!"


CLEARS
v
the BLOOD
through the
KIDNEYS
SCHNAPPS.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels.direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
SHAKESPERIAN THERAPEUTICS.—If
anything can “minister unto a mind diseased ” it
is assuredly Hunyadi Janos, “cleanse
the stuff’d bosom of the perilous stuff which weighs
upon the heart.” It is an arsenal of therapeutics,
being speedy, sure, and gentle. *
The Bulletin acknowledges receipt "of the
Australian Handbook for 1902, published by Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, of the British Empire generally. The
Handbook is the sort of work that, after a man has
travelled all over Australia, he buys to carefully read up
and learn what he has seen. In addition to a vast mass
of information on matters Australian, there are also full
particulars of New Guinea, Maoriland and Fiji, and, in
fact, there is not a town in Australasia proper of which the
book does not give particulars while it exists, and no ip-
tending settler need inadvertently transfer himself to a
locality without a church, three hotels, and one bi-weekly
newspaper. There is a valuable Colonial Buyers’ Guide
and Shippers’ and Importers’ Directory included in the
work, and also a portrait of Dry Dog Rejd without his
eyeglass. The maps are numerous, and though the rail-
way ones are well up-to-date, the same cannot always be
said for the others ; on the colored map pf Tasmania, for
instance, the Emu Bay line is only completed as far as
Waratah to this day. Also, some of the tables of figures
are only complete up to 1898 or 1899— and this is 1902.*
Dr. Goodfellow, Ph.D., F.R.M.S., in a recent
lecture to hygienic students, said : “ We have seen from
previous work that many hair lotions contain lead and
other injurious constituents, but that ‘ Koko,' the type
we have taken as the subject of our examination to-night,
is not only a valuable tonic dressing for the hair, but is
perfectly free from all deleterious constituents.” The
German Ambassador’s daughter, Princess Hohenlohe,
writes ‘ Koko ’is the best dressing I know. It keeps
the head cool, promotes growth, and is in every way
excellent.” In order to reach those who have not yet
used this remarkable and world-known toilet requisite,
the proprietors are now offering in Australia a 4s. 6d. trial
bottle for 25., under the conditions mentioned in adver-
tisement in present issue.*
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
We
Can’t
Help
Producing
Novelties in
Jeweller/.
Brilliant Cut Diamonds
and Rubies, £5 18s.
4 Diamonds
1 Pearl set in
Pine Gold, 28/6
We bubble over with them. Designing is our native
air. We live by producing them.
rj lIEN, too, we have Agents in all the great producing
countries and receive illustrations of all newlines.
We dare not illustrate them —they would be copied and
our buyers want distinctive Jewellery that no one else
has.
It affords us pleasure to show them to those who
wander through our Showrooms.
As manufacturers we are producing them in Sydney
at London Prices—Bed-rock Prices.
London Prices
Plain Figures.
Strictly Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
Manufacturing Jewellers,
23 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
In a trespass case tried before N.S.W.
Judge Rogers in ’9B, certain station employees
swore that a cockie’s sheep were constantly tres-
passing, though the boundary fence was 4ft. 6in.
high, 6-wired, and rabbit-netted. The Judge
asked a witness, “ Did you see the sheep on the
station property ?” “ Yes, y’ Honor.” “ Did you
see how they got there ? ” “Yes, y’ Honor; they
jumped the fence—took it in their stride, y’
Honor.” The Judge remarked, thoughtfully:
“As he has sworn it, I’ll put it on my notes.”
When the next witness had been examined by
both counsel, the Judge asked him : “Did you see
the sheep trespassing?” “Yes, your Honor,
often.” “Well, how did they get there?” “They
just went down on their ’ands and knees, your
Honor, and crawled under.” The Judge again
looked thoughtful. “I suppose I must put that
on my notes, too. But I must say that if these
witnesses are telling the truth, the station-owner
is wasting time shearing these sheep ; he should
hire them out to a circus.”
• * * »
Some years back two mates were working
near Mt. Moliagul (Vic.) with the worst of
luck—running to the verge of starvation, and
then striking a patch just large enough to feed
them for a week or so, and keep them tearing
away in pursuit of the fortune that always seemed
an inch beyond pick-point. One day when all
the stores had shut down hard, and their luck
seemed dead to the world, Bill on top received
the order to “heave” from Jim below, and
started hauling. Bill found his mate unusually
heavy, but ascribed it to his own weakness or lack
of heart, and brought James to the surface
after a struggle. The latter landed himself, and
then stranded the bucket. “My word, Jim! I
found you blessed heavy,” said Bill. “ I must be
knockin’ under.” “ Not you, Bill,” said Jim
coolly ; “ I was a bit heavier’n usual,” with which
he up-ended the bucket, and scattered 400 oz. of
gold on the smooth pipeclay !
* * • •
“Edge-Nevin” sends some fresh-water-
fish stories :
Re big Murray-cod (B. 22/3/’O2). On 26/3/’O2, at Brewar-
rina (N.S. W.), I saw two blacks carrying between them, on
a pole, a cod that turned the scale at 1251b5. It was cut
up, boiled, and relished by pencillers, parsons, public
and publican at race-time. In April, ’99, I caught with
band line, between Mercadool and Oollarenebri (Barwon
Kiver), inside 24 hours, 14 cod that totalled 13021bs. —an
average of 931bs. each. From the shoulder of one of these
I cut a boneless piece of flesh weighing 211bs. 3oz. Again,
with three-ply red line, on green “ bender,” 21 inch hook,
two mussels for bait, I caught two fishes. A 91b. cod had
first taken the bait, and then a cannibalistic brother took
him, head first. Couldn’t get all down, nor up again ;
but was alive when landed. No. 2 weighed 1041bs. Same
day I caught one, a 89|lbs. cod, which had a hook, made
of very large wool-pack needle, protruding from the
rectum, with about 3in. of line attached. Had passed all
but the bend and barb. Can’t beat the waters which flow
out of Queensland into N.S.W. for fish. When in Vic., I
find it necessary to bait with discs of white metal— i.e.,
current coin of the realm—and to fish in a shop.
* • * *
“ Eller.” : I would recommend “ F.L.Gr.”
(8., 15/3/’O2. page 6) to write to Farleigh, Nett-
heim, and Co., of Sydney, and T. T. Forsyth, of
VVilloughby, Sydney, re the prices of dugong
hides.
* * *
A beautiful story of the Aboriginal Early
Days:—
Jackson, with a small party, went from Port Darwin to
the mouth of the Roper River to take in stores from a
schooner—date, ’B4. Jackson and party were killed by
the Alligator tribe (Alligator River). News was brought
to Port Darwin, and a little commando went out to find
the responsible murderers and deal with them. The
tribe gave up five. The smallest man
of that lot stood sft. llin. in his naked
feet. They were put in the Port Darwin
gaol and waited there for trial. Eight
months passed by, and then the gover-
nor of the gaol, being extremely tired of
their company, said to the Acting-Com-
missioner : “What am I going to do
with these niggers? When they came
into my hands they ran to about 12st.
each —now there isn’t one of them under
16st. Nobody will be able to identify
them.” The Acting-Commissioner had
no suggestion to make. But, sure
enough, when the Judge came up the
whole five were acquitted. They had
been fattened out of recognition. The
chief of the Port Darwin police was then
instructed by the Judge to take back
the five obese aboriginals to their own
country. It was a silly suggestion inas-
much as it meant that they—and they
were very fat—would have to pass
through the country of hostile cannibals.
The matter was compromised by the
chief of i olice offering to see them
through as far as the Catherine River.
They were discharged without a stain
upon their characters, but all the same
they ran 200 miles or so handcuffed and
bound to the stirrups of policemen.
Bob Sutton was then in charge of the
Overland telegraph-station at the Cathe-
rine. When he heard the story he said
—“ I’ll d d soon make them identifi-
able. Leave it to me.” In the morning
there was a smell of burnt flesh all over
the place. “ Come out, boys,” said Mr.
Sutton, “ and see what I’ve been doing.”
They went out and saw the unfortunate
niggers with “ 0.T.” and a broad arrow
branded on their posteriors.
“I know niggers better than _,«u,
Bob, and you will have trouble over
this,” said Chris. Moore, the explorer.
He was right. Trouble came that
same night. Over three hundred black-
fellows surrounded the station and de-
manded to see the boss. Bob went out
tq them. They were peaceable niggers,
g# a rule, and there was nothing to fear.
“ One at a time,” he said.
The chief stepped forward and re-
marked, with some dignity : “ Why for
you let those plurry wild blackfellows
get marks made, and we get none ? ”
Explanations would have been absurd,
and, in any case, unsuitable to the
•humor of Bob Sutton. There were six
White men on the Catherine at the time,
and they were employed at branding all
•night.
Next morning three hundred black-
fellows went away with the O.T. brand.
They thought it was a sort of C.M.G.
‘distinction, and a mark of special Im-
perial favor. Bob Sutton did not dis-
illusionise them, and for years after-
Wards they were too proud to sit down
RUIN.
RABBITY: "Want any rabbits to-day, lydy? A shillun each
or two for eighteen-pence."
LYDY: "I don't want two, but I'll give you ninepence for
R.: "Wye, lydy, they CORST me more'n that!"
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted , whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no ease will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
N.H.A. : There are many ways of raising
money and of economising the money we have, so that
public works could he built out of revenue. The trouble
is that in Australia it has come to be regarded as a sin
and an absurdity to build any public work without
borrowing the money. If the N.S.W. revenue went up
to £20,000,000 the Government would rather pension the
whole population than not borrow the money for public
works J.A. : About a dozen people have written about
how those Australian officers were sold inasmuch as they
shot 10 Boers in cold blood and then found the loot con*
sisted of £20,000 in paper money. But the S’African banks
are in good enough health, and their paper is quite sound.
The freebooters probably preferred paper to gold. It is a
lot more portable... . L.O. : You would have to prove
adultery as well as desertion before you could get a
divorce, the law being quite unlike that of N.S.W. or
Victoria. Moreover the court would probably hold that
the desertion did not take place there but in the State you
left and refuse to deal with the matter. The Federal law
when it is passed will probably put you in a position to
get a divorce R.R. (M.L.) : That fanlight and
auctioneer story has come to us about a dozen times from
your island and we’re not going to print it....Mudgee :
Not so. The Australian captain in question was acquitted
by court-martial of the charge of murder by having a kaffir
shot for not expeditiously producing a certain bridle....
M.A.W. : Wrong end up. It was The Bulletin that in-
vented the term “ cohentingent.” And The Bulletin is
quite proud of its copyright.... .O.L. A. : Rather should
you rejoice, don’t you think ? Why, “90 per cent.” of
that gallant band, the Bushveldt Carbineers, were Aus-
tralians. .. Melb. : “ Thousands of people, in turn, kissed-
the prelate’s ring,” did they ? Then it must have been a
great day for swapping diseases Dense : The theory is
good enough. When the demand for anything exceeds
the supply prices go up—the persons who have the article
to sell put them up. Therefore, if the removal of, say,
Is. duty on tea reduced the price Is., and that so increased
the demand that it exceeded the supply, the tea-grower
would promptly demand more for his tea—probably 6d.
more, just as the man who had rats for sale in a besieged
city has been known to demand 4s. 6d. each for them.
Everybody was hungry, and there weren’t enough rats.
B. : It boils down to this : The Bulletin backed
Seddon the democrat, and because it did that you reckon
it should back Seddon the Jingo. It backed the compara-
tively economical Seddon of (say) 1895, and you hold it
should back the Seddon who nearly trebled the loan ex-
penditure in 1900—who “blewed” twice a 3 much loan
money, in proportion to population, as was done in Vic-
toria or S. A. And The Bulletin thinks otherwise.....
R.A.K. : But this paper has shown over and over again
how the new Federal city can be built without borrow-
ing any money at interest L.M.D. : Artistic tale,
but too gruesome and nerve-shaking Alone :
Verses on “ Bun Tuck ” hardly do him justice
H.J. : “ Tatt’s. ” couldn’t “talk compensation.” After
all, the Federal Government doesn’t suppress him, it
merely forbids him the use of its post offices... .L. (Q.):
The man who is willing to admit Kanakas to Australia,
“ if they come of their own free will,” is logically bound to
admit Chinese and Hindus also “if they come of their
own free will”—as they mostly do. And then “White
Australia is gone Han: No warmth in your Hades
humor H.L.N. (and a dozen others): The Bulletin
must decline to join in any movement to deify Morant.
Because he once wrote verse for us, that didn’t give him
a license to shoot Boers in cold blood —not to our mind,
at any rate Paopi: How entirely humorless you must
be to send us an ode on the flag of Maoriland (or rather
Seddon-land) and its “ purity ” and “godliness” and its
“ honor ! ” The flag of M.L. ? Faugh ! While it is
waved by Seddon it ought to be treated as a plague-
infected, slaughter-house area, to be drenched in formalin
and sprayed with a steam hose Hind : Well, anyhow,
only one-seventh of King Ned’s subjects are even nominally
Christians; rest are Hindus, Mohammedans, Buddhists,
heathens, etc Sus. : If we returned them without
comment perhaps it was because we thought that the less
said the better Grant H. : That parody would be sheer
YOU KNOW!
“’Scuse me, my dear, but I’ve—hie—been to a Sunday funeral, and you—er—Tcnow what THAT is.”
blasphemy. We are too fond of “The Camp ivithin the
West ” to smile upon such profanation. And as to that ‘ ‘ Bal-
lade of Old High waymen,” it would be hotly libellous to com-
pare the gentleman aimed at with Ned Kelly—and to ex-
cise the comparison would be to emasculate your rhyme..
Alan M. : Some descriptive power, but you lack skill and
experience Sammy: A good point, unskilfully mani-
pulated ~..U.S. : Has glimmers of merit, but is generally
crude and sloppy M.O.T. : Absurdly conventional
and melodramatic Milky: Should have ended with
third verse. May possibly use it that way Alfred G. :
May re-touch for pript Budget: Sorry none iip to
mark.. . .N.S.N. : They vary from pretty fair to very
weak. Lot more practice needed... .P.R.F. : Thanks;
but it’s hardly worth notice W. Stocks: Has
no poetic pretensions T. D.O’D. : Some spirit,
badly marred by lack of skill and education
Seep : The yarns of a nigger astrologer of no possible
interest J.R.: Subject getting too dull for treatment.
Tindog: What do you take us for —the Dead Bird?
Veldt: No such grace... .G.M.S. : “The Masher”—
mush.. ..G.W. : Not badly told, but incident too small.
Buck : “ Goin’ Back’' is going back to you Billy :
Fragment of Hibernian monologue no interest Bob
R. : A man “ with a knowledge of the idiosyncrasies of
the-bovine race ” has no show with a cow-yarn in this
paper ; he puts his foot in the milk-bucket at once, so to
speak... .G.S. (Adelaide): Please send address H.P. :
Why all this correction about Korrumburra, anyhow ?....
W.O : Couldn’t help it—there was butone postal-delivery
in Sydney on Easter Monday... .Albert G. : Imaginative,
but uninteresting J.B. : “Far Away” too flat....
E.W.A. : The man who thinks| himself “ first robber” is
often really the first man robbed T.H.B. : You don’t
know Sydney art circles, or you would have had that
artist’s horror rushed by the National Gallery trustees, to
the eternal making of his reputation S.P. : “ Breaking
Camp ” not bad, but hardly up to the mark. Try again.
Mabel G. : Verse-subject unsuitable Teddy:
Rather undressed Mountaineer: It hasn’t the snap
one would expect from a yarn centreing round “31b. of
dry ginger.”... .G.R. (W.A.) : Would make a good mining
par., but is a very bad poem C. : He is a decent little
fellow personally, but a political shuffler whose Q. Parlia-
mentary demise is only to be regretted because a worse
man fills his place Gordon T. : F.L. accepted
D.H.R. : “Telegraphy” very weak in places. Other
may have a chance Doughboy : All such yarns are
founded on ignorance of the fact that an incurably insane
person may, in certain circumstances, appear perfectly
rational Marion L.O. : Very juvenile productions,
though, of course, if you are juvenile, experience and
practice may work wonders with you Dander : You
can’t raise ours that way. We’ve “been there before.”
lnsignis : “Her Death” is ingenious, but is much
overdone in detail Max N. : Too much rush and gush
and flounder W.N.O. : Dunno. Can’t see why the
ping-ponger should be any more reviled than the
golfanatic Balaam : Hum ! —should have supposed you
were the other party D. 0.8. : Extremely well told—
and utterly unworthy of being told N.F. : Too long
and wobbly Arthur O’O. : Thanks ; it’s well put, but
we’ve had it before... .Dora : Very neatly-versed, though
a shade conventional. Will consider Socius: Your
Pegasus is not a stayer ; poem all right for two words
“ Society, Bah ! ” Then it falls off lamentably.. .D.H.R. :
Good enough, only Tennyson wrote exactiy the same
sentiments more effectively some years ago. The young
poets’ feet so often stumble on grave-stones! Dead-
beat: Horrors unskilfully catalogued The Jay: Too
much of a British music-hall type C.B. :250r so
closelj--written pages ! You forget this is our busy year.
..D.H.R. : not up. .Kittie Cattle : Promising, but record
of children’s mischief not best of subjects. . .F.H. (Tas.) :
Ingenious, but facts of that sort are best put quite
plainly G.R.B. : “Farmers” makes its points too
slowly J.P.C. : A very mean sort of seduction, but
your yarn tries to make it half admirable.. Impecunious :
No Sydney firm would probably touch the business as it
would need an agent’s visit to your distant town
A.B.T. : The germ of a story, but far too long-winded
Tydvil : Some touches of talent, but too uneven
M. Ben. : That idea has to be wrapped up very gracefully
to secure publication for the 15,000 th time.... Joseph M. :
Thanks ; but we don’t care to publicly stoke ourselves
with marmalade... .Cadaver : Cronje’s real soliloquy is
probably the Taal equivalent for “ damn.” No appro-
priateness in putting album verse in his mouth... .M.M. :
Population (census 1901): Commonwealth, 3,783,083;
Maoriland, 772,720. Debt (June, 1901) : Commonwealth,
£207,261,918; Maoriland, £49,591,245. There have been
large additions since (over £4,000,000 in N.S.W. alone),
and there \j|ere also floating debts not published. No one
ever knows the whole debt of this country. Before the
annual statement comes out two or three new loans
have been floated, and there are always concealed
items as well. Take too much space to describe
electoral systems. Look up Australian Handbook
Milesian: Not good enough Soap: We have no faith
whatever in the alleged “cure.” R.J.H.P. : Your
derivation has an air of probability. Anyhow, it is the
only one we know of Overlander: Much of that Peter
Tyson yarn is old, and most of it is very indigestible.
Kodak : Six weeks 1 Why, it may take six months....
D.H.R. : Gcod enough material, inadequately dealt with.
No ; “to follow Australian literature” would be decidedly
not “ profitable ” to a person of your moderate capa-
bilities Bee : Well enough in their way, but quite out
of our line.... Alfred E. ; Rather lame and laborious...
C. W. Peck : Runs to 9000 words ; our limit is about 3000.
.. ..Rex : Only.another way of saying that the perpetu-
ative instinct is a powerful factor in human affairs
K.O. : Declined Bandbox: Keep your head in....
Maggie S. : One may d0....F001: Very likely O. L.
Bourke (? W.A.): Mrs. Gilmore (“ M.J.0.”) wishes
you to write her c/o this office....F. Mill: Not yet
received.... Tam : “ Shoo ! ”... .G.A.S.: Lack point....
G. Quick : No time to deal with iron-stiff, tightly-rolled
M.S. Held for return B. St. B. A. : “ Hard-Hit” has
a chance. The other is poor stuff.... Hamer : Neither up
to mark. Your M.S. gets steadily more illegible....
Diver : You won’t come to the surface in Bulletin.. ..
S.C.O. : Mere variant of sentiments already printed
H. : “Like and Unlike” ingenious but trite....
W.M. : “Michael” long and labored... .Merl.yn : To
hand Bilby : Can’t use at 2nd-hand. Nothing in it,
anyhow Eller: You don’t say when, or where, that
punter had such wondrous luck. Such items are useless
without particulars Henry P. : “Fate’s Irony” falls
rather flat.... Arellef : Not too bad, but we couldn’t use
it as it stands Fugitive : Some force, but too frag-
mentary E.A.B. : Items received. Letter sent you on
other subject... .Marie D. : Pretty well told, but the
alone-with-a-lunatic situation is 01d... .Nancy : Quite off
our track.... Mors : Appropriately defunct W.T.G. :
Too much tangled-up towards end Rita S. : Returned,
with principal faults indicated... .C.W.P. : Verse-gift
sadly lacking Monkey: Some humor, but too shape-
less and crawlsome E.B.J. : Loose in facts and unsuit-
able in style... .Frank J. W. : Good yarn-material, but
you lack the skill to deal with it Wild W. :
“ Dingoes ” hardly good enough. Will consider “ Camp.”
Alf. L. : Fupny situation, but verse too ricketty
J.L. (M.L.) : Too stiff and wooden Oryt: A hair-raiser,
certainly; but quite unprintable... .G. Gain: Hardly
point enough. “ Won’t scan ” means either that the
“ foot ” or measure used is not preserved throughout, or
that it is preserved only by wrong accentuation....
Milesian: Verse below par ; and the soiled-socks-gag is
old, anyhow.


Public feeling was in farOr of the Com/
monwealth being adequately represented aft
the Coronation.
Mr Cook (N S. W.) : Are you going »
Mr. John Forrest : H I go it won't
cost you or the Commonwealth a penny.
CHear, hear.)
Mr Reid; y ou aro worth 100 mea
(Laughter.)
Cr-*-
A opto i
( 0v 'nwdr 0 „
™ CoaU b e - -
If . ,'s e<?oJi | »f% Qofovstfov \>J <l^lJ
- . f t/,
Te%7 ers a f S«"|il*ir j>roj,orl7on WouU
fe* fa 2s/t tye*) t see , ? -
'\lk-r%.'^' r Hh’ ,>.
* leUo“T<^ri^-1 eUo “T<^ri^-
co^ n &U c N v>»t
«®° J v,oe« 9 „vcv6 a t o^ e
"SO-*"
''Your
clones
Voo KtoW Vipry
well It? I®o ,
'e»y!
"'Weil! yo«a
tetter
your 5 c If
doVn ttjerj
Vc
ajl yowVc
eoi»7' io
v
We Cdjtad
About" our ** **-
ottjic 5
ouk stete ov r
rcU'ttv'es— "fy* W»
s*ys Ijis
is 5«iH? -
yo“g>
rr~s®. H eV L-r foK
[)|cKg4 *I««i oul 1
15,*\ -
==^== === r = r^^b^ Y ‘ " 3 s<^ c - fij\'^i et,r '
c
v7V» a
, *y x \ \
tTh' nl> - '-'on*. to
£? *“• -
A '**'*-*,
'Qoiju I ; _ '• p;
tT7OK«. ? "
-"lls'lMs : [le lo tye , would wo« ?
colons
ot<J : t—' W% Vy —W i—» W••** ’, •
(is s<?*>*4*)j
MIXED MATTER.


•» The Federal Government has decided
*to prohibit the delivery of all mail matter
to turf tipsters, bookmakers, secretaries
of art-unions, and church bazaars.”
*' Alas ! my brother, I fear we showed over-much zeal in our efforts to bring
this thing about. Without the usual raffle we shall in future have to trust
•entirely to Providence to make our church bazaars a success.”
Jr “ During Mr. Wragge'a
recent visit to Mount iKos.
ciusko, the best weather-con*
ditions prevailed. He describes
the scenery as beautiful, and he gained
better view than on any former visit. He also
saw the anthelia, or ‘glories of light, - which;
were more beautiful than he had seen from Bej»J
Nevis, in Scotland- Mr. Wragge reports that
rats are numerous there.”
Our artist has never seen the anthelia, but
he has seen Mr. Wragge, and also rats.
Candor compels him to. say that neither of
the two latter are attractive features in a
landscape.
“ The’ cabmen engaged to drive the
Senators round the Wagga Federal Cap®
tal site have not yet been paid.
have complained to the local council* and
the clerk has been instructed to remind
. the Federal Government of the fact.**
First Cabby : “ Wot d’ye think of the
Commonwealth now, Bill ? ”
fSO SifTo: “ Think.!—why, I think that
the Commonwealth ain’t no gentlemen;
if; you arsk me! ”
building.* It i ?Wc£ rm ° f or / cfreshment within-the
is, therefore, compulsory for them to cat their
iunckeon outside.
' ' A LARGE ORDER.
“London, Tuesday Afternoon.—The War Office has applied to
•"Mr. Copeland, the Agent-General for New South Wales, for 100
tons of New South Wales plum, apricot, and gooseberry jam.”
“It is stated that it is contemplated that Great Britain shall
equip six army corps, ready to take the field in South Africa, and
raise 21 army corps available for service abroad. Australia will
= be expected to provide two militia army corps, Maoriland one, and
Canada four. The scheme also provides that in time there will be
an extension of the system of garrison regiments.”
The Agent : “ I’m ’fraid our stock of jam is rather low just now,
as labor is pretty scarce and dear. But I’ll tell you what : If
you want any more of o\jr famous brand of Contingent Blot&
Pudding, we can supply any amount of that.”
SAVE YOUR OLD NEWSPAPERS !
Sydney Evening News says that rats
are frequently brought to the in<aij.
efator at Russell’s wharf, wrapped up io
newspapers, by mere children—a trick oS
the trade borrowed* no doubt, from the
suburban butcher.
CARTOONLETS.


Key,
£3 los.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS.
ROTHERHAM SPECTXL MADE ENGLISH
LEVERS, Full Cap, Hand Finished, Extra
Jewelled Works, Perfect Timekeeper, with Pure
Silver Cases, Dust and Water Tight, £3 10s.
Extra duality, with Chronometer Balance.
£4 10s, £5, £5 10s, £6, £7, £8 ;
Solid Gold, £lO, £l5, £2O.
A written certificate for 3,4, and 5 years.
Try one ; you will not regret it.
Keyless,
£5.
FREETRADE
PRICES.
\ 1 /
%
UHOKQ-E S 3 SYDNEY
F=S
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, Reliable LEVERS, “ Tbe Challenge,” 15s.
The Unrivalled Lever, in Black or Nickel, 20s ; perfect
timekeeper. The London Lever, new f-plate model,
25s ; m Solid Silver, £2 2s; in Double Case, £2 10s, £3.
Rotherham LEVERS, £3los, £4, £5, £6, £7, £B. Gold
WATCHES, £4 4s. £5 ss, £6 6s, £7 10s. £lO, £L2 10s,
£l5, £2O. Mind, we guarantee you the utmost satis-
faction, “ otherwise we will exchange watch for you.”
Send for Illustrated book of particulars, post free.
NO
ADVANCE.
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Unrivalled non-magnet LEVER.
Perfect Timekeeper, Screw Cases,
dust and water tight, 20s.
A written Guarantee given with
each Watch.
£>.
Black or
Nieke,
30s.
“ FLY-BACK CHRONOMETERS.”
These we have at Every, Price and Style. In Solid
Nickel or Black, 30s ; Extra Quality, £2, £2 10s ;
Split Seconds, £3 LOs. Pure Solid Silver, £5, £6, £7,
£B, and £lO ; Solid Gold, £l5, £2O, £25, and £3O.
A written certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and 6 years.
TRY ONE.
Silver,
£5.
Solid
Silver,
<£2 103-
WALTHAM LEVERS.
We are Special Direct Agents.
Pure Solid Silver Hunting Cases, Extra
Quality Movements,
£2 10s, £3, £3 l('s, £4, and £5 ;
Gold Patent Cases, Walthams, £4 4s, £5 5s
Solid Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O,
and £25.
Gold
Cases,
£i 4s.
Solid Gold CHAIN (Single or Doul 1:), £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5. 15ct. Solid Gold, £5 10s,
£6, £6 10s, £7. £B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d,
15s, 20s. S< nd for Price Illustrated Book.
15ct. Gold Bar and Sciuil BKOOCH, Pearls and
Bed Stones, 355. Quite New.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Motto Registered Gold “ Dinna Forget ’
BROOCH and Amethysts, 9ct. Gold, 17s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, 30s ; 18et. Gold, 355.
15ct. Gold, Extra. Strong, with First-class
Opal, £2 5s ; similar, 355, £2, and £2 10s.
15ct. Gold, Diamond and 2 Rubies, 22s 6d.
2-Bar Gold Soroll Pearl Set BROOCH, 20s
Hall marked.
A. SAUNDERS.
(Registered) Gold Secret Name BROOCH,
15ct. Gold, Diamonds, £2 10s, £3, £4.
Any Name or Motto Free.
Six Different Patterns, Similar.
15cfc. Gold 2-Bar Ivy Leaf, Set with Red,
White, and Blue Stones, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ivy and Pearl Gold BROOCH, 25s
9ct. Gold, smaller, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Solid Gold Name BROOCH, 7s 6d ;
with Raised Flowers each side (Any Name),
15ct. Gold, 15s. Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. 2-Bar Pure Diamond, Double Cut, £2.
MP*
9ct. Gold Square or half-round BR ACELET,
3 Red or Blue Stones, £2.
Very Neat and Cheap.
m
Ladies’ Curb Gold
Chain, Bnap Padlock,
255, 30s, 355, £2 ss,
£3; 15ct., £2 10s, £3,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6,
£7 10s, £B, £9, £lO.
10s extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nicely Chased Gold BRACELET, 255. Very Neat and Pretty.
Sword and Sheath PAPER CUTTER, 6in. Jong.
Most Useful Present, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold BROOCH, 3-Bar Diamond, 12a 6d.
Very Neat.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Wishbone and Arrow, with Red
Stone, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Wish Bone and Forget-Me-Not, 15s.
A; SAUNDERS.
9ct. G-oldßaised Flowers, 5s 6d.
Larger, 6s 6d and 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah BROOCH, 2 Hearts, 10s :
larger, 12s 6d. A Nice Brooch.
Gold “ Good Luck ” BROOCH, 10s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, 21s.
11
15
11 12 13 14
A. SAUNDERS’
FREETRADE PRICES.
10. —Round LINK, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2los,
£3 ; lact., £4, £5.
11. —Rope Pattern, 9ct.. Gold, £2, £2los,
£3 ; 15ct., £4, £5.
12. — Cuj b Pattern, 9ct. Gold, £2, £2los,
£3; 15ct., £4, £5.
13. —Rope and Ball. 9ct. Gold, £2, £2 los,
£3 , 15ct., £4, £5.
14. Curb and Link, £3, £4, £5, £6.
15. —Chain and Rondell, £4 to £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Style, loot. Gold Pearl Set Buckle 2-Bar
BROOCH, 32s 6d. English Hall Marked.
■EMI
m
A. SAUNDERS.
English Hall Marked 15ct. Gold Ruby and
Pearls, Scroll and Eancy Sides, £2.
18ct.
Solid j
Gold, £lO
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold Keyless WALTHAM
LEVER, Eull Jewelled Works, Patent
Action, New Model £lO, £l2 10s.
You Can't get a Better Watch.
14ct. Solid Gold, £8 10s.
Extra
Strong,
£l2los
OpGtT
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Dinna Forget,
10s 6d.
Our own Registered
Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHARM.
New Gold Bell,
7s 6d.
SI
F=*
/
A. SAUKDEES,
Eadics’ Solid Silver Hunting:
Keyless WATCH,
Fall Jewelled, 255, 80s, £2,
£2 10s.
Price to quality of works.
Guaranteed 2,3, 4 years.
i
y.
loct. Gold
Turquoise
Forge t-
,me-Not
and
Pearl
Scroll,
20s.
A. SAWDERS.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 2fs, 30s, £2,
£2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5 ;
Superioi (Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
ALL GUARANTEED.
Floral
FIN,
Pearl and
Tur-
quoise,
255.
15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Keyless WATCH,
Good Timekeeper, 15s ;
Extra duality, 20s.
Guaranteed.
20s.
Post Card Gold
CHARM, 10s.
Any Name Fiee.
Silver, gilt, 5s 6d.
Gold Boot
CHARM, 5s 6d.
Latest Style.
Solid
Gold,
£6 10s,
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ WALTHAM SOLID
GOLD KEYLESS,
f-movement, Chronometer Balance,
Jewelled, Perfect Timekeeper,
Extra Strong Cases.
Full Size, £6 10s ; Small Size, £5 10s.
Pure Solid works,
£2 10s.
Silver,
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl and
Turquoise Floral and
Ribbon BROOCH, £2 10s.
London’s Newest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Pearl and
Turquoise Heart
BROOCH, £2 2s.
The Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Solid Gold Opal LINKS,
with Initial, £2 10s.
Extra Strong.
A. SAUNDERS.
Beautifully Chased, 9ct. Gold,
large size LINKS, 22s 6d.“
Plain, 21s, or with Initials*
nicely Chased, 22s 6d.
15ct. Gold, £2 ;
Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
(Registered).
Gold LINKS, 20s;.
15ct. Gold, 32s 6d
Silver and Gold, 10s ; ;
all Silver, ss.
hM
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold LINKS,
very pretty, 12s 6d.
Large Size, 15s and 205..
Silver, 2s 6d and 4s 6d.
TMIZPAH GOLD
CHARM, 4s.
A. SAUNDERS’
Watches,
Clocks,
Jewellery,
AND
Silverplate
FREETRADE
PRICES.
SAVE 25 PEE CENT.
TO 50 PER CENT.
Showrooms :
815 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold, 5 pure
Diamonds, £l2 10s ;
Smaller, £5, £6, £7,
£7 10s, to £3O.
18et. Solid Gold,
5 Pure Diamonds, £5.
Diamond and
Sapphire or Ruby,
£3 10s;
larger, £4 10s, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold,
3 Sapphiies, Rubies,
or Opals, 4 Diamonds,
£3, £3 10s, £4,
A. SATJNDEBS.
Opal Band RINGS,
9ct. Solid Gold, 17s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 30s ;
18ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Buttercup Single
Stone Diamond
RING,
£3, £4, £5.
aH t
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold.
3 Pure Diamonds,
2 Opal Heart s, £4 10s.
Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Solid Gold Buckle,
17s 6d; 15ct. Gold, 30s ;
18ct. Gold, £2.
r
Solid Gold, Turquoise
and Pearl, 20s.
Newest Style.
I
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold, 3 pure
Double-cut Diamonds,
£5, 1 Diamond and
2 Rubies or Sapphires,
£3.
18ct. Solid Gold Diamond
Band, £2, £2 10s, £3;
15c t. Gold, 30s.
18ct. Gold Buckle
BING, Diamond, and
2 Bubies or Sapphires,
£2 10s. .
With Name, Band RINGS,
9ct. Solid Gold, 12s 6d, 15s;
15ct. Gold, 20s, 25s ;
18et. Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
GENT.’S RING.
Solid Gold, Amethyst, 255;
15ct. Gold, £2 ;
18ct., £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-made Weeding RINGS and KEEPERS.
9ct. Solid Gold, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s each ; 15ct. Gold, 15s
extra heavy, 25s ; 18ct. Gold, 20s ;
extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for Card.
A. SAUNDERS,
¥ g
JEWELLER AND SILVERSMITH,
815 AND 817 GEORGE-STREET,
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY.


A Maorilander has written an alleged
song, “Richard, King of New Zealand,” which is
now sung (to the tune of “ Wearing of the
Green, ” one of the few songs Seddon knows) at
dinners when he is present.
A proposed amendment of the jury law in
N.S.W. is that in cases in which juries at one
trial disagree. twenty jurors should be sworn
for the second trial with the understanding that a
verdict of twelve will be taken. Disagreeing
juries are a temptation to do something with the
present system, but if 20 jurors in the second trial
why not in the first ?
Victoria has at last abandoned and sold off
(privately) the buildings, &c., of its Govt, scent-
farm. The Govt* scent-farm, during its disastrous
existence, produced little in the way of market-
able perfume or educational results but a six-
Chinamen-power concentration stinkpot would be
a pleasant circumstance compared to the odours
that are arising over its awful mismanagement.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
pre>s your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion I If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, vou
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
y ? u - } e , r l ?J )s your ! tneeB are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
.“.Y m d ,°? 4 Bay !><=rh a P B i but I WILL. Because
“eiulat lB D ° reason 4or no 4 now being cured.
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, lumours Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
J 'nte Graat Urilain, I/ljd. per b x. Prepared by
ALBERI 73, Farrmgdon-street, London, England.
' P'LIOI I BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
UfRINKLES and RAPID RULES. BUSINESS MEMORY
*■ FIGURES.—“ Useful little book. Rules for rapid
calculation are excellent. Many valuable hints.”—S. E.
News. “Memory system is ingenious.”—S.M. Herald!
“ If followed out should lead on to fortune.”—S.D. Tele-
graph. Postal note, Is. J. 0. COX, DARLING ST
BALMAIN, SYDNEY.
30 Days’ Trial.
m
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
IiELTH and
A EE LI A NCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Bells give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing', we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Stkekt, SYDNEY.
CALVERTS
20 per cent.
CARBOLIC
SOAP
Cures and prevents Insect
and Mosquito bites.
The strongest Carbolic Toilet Soap.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
TMCfiOioey
A Studv of BALDN ESS and
FALLING HAIR, By Dr.
ALFRED NEALE. Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
AND THEIR TREATMENT.
Posted Is Id.
Publishers: Turner and Henderson. SYTtKKY.
LIFE HAS
A RELISH
SAUC
gsgg
When our meals are
seasoned with
SA UCE.
m
PLAIN NOME TALK
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1200 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1901 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted to any address for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d. !
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, is posted.
Seoret History of the Court of England, 1 6 post free. ;
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. j
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free. I
How to Read Heads (Jas. Ooates), Is 6d posted.
Ciievasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid’
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor., Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Pa, Ma and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big- Book
Catalogue—poet free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
Dr. Clarkaoii’a Electric Bolt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr.CLARKSON’SRE-INVIGORATOR
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is trnlv wonderful
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC. ° y
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
CALLORWMTE- OWL. DKTJG STORE,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
m
m
HP
:
HERR RASSMUSSEN (HANS PETER RASMUSSEN),
The Celebrated Danish Botanist,
Proprietor and Discoverer of the World-Famed Alfaline Herbal Remedies,
which have been the means of effecting: the most marvellous Cures for Blood,
Skin and Nervous Diseases ever heard of in Australia.
Herr Rassmussen’s Australian Career:
It is about Twenty Years since Herr
Rassmussen introduced his Herbal Remedies
to the Australian Public, At that time
he was only known to the public as a Botanist
pure and simple, having devoted almost his
whole life to the study of that most useful
and interesting branch of science, It how?
ever, soon dawned on Herr Rassmussen that
immense virtues existed in many plants which
were entirely unknown to medical men, and
that it was his duty towards his fellow man
to bring these new discovered Herbal Remedies
within the means of suffering humanity.
Herr Rassmussen at once set to work,
and his entire energy was directed towards
extracting the medical properties from all
kinds of plants, and putting them up in the
most suitable and practical form, according
to the nature of the complaints which they
had been found a cure for.
Pills and Powders were found to be the
most practical form to administer these new
Herbal Remedies.
It is unnecessary to particularise here the
immense success Herr Rassmussen met with
in his venture twenty years ago ; suffice it to
say that in less than twelve months the
great and wonderful cures brought about by
his Alfaline Herbal Remedies were known
throughout Australia, New Zealand, and many
other parts of the world. Testimonials and
Honors arrived from all parts. Gold Medals
from Paris and other places were awarded, and
Herr Rassmussen’s name has been a house-
hold word ever since.— (Sydney Press.)
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Herbal Remedies!
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
are a guaranteed cure for all Nervous Diseases’
Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Poor Memory
Tired Feeling, Melancholia, Spots before the
Eyes, etc. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
are a permanent cure for Wasting Diseases in
Women, Anaemia, and a perfect Blood and
Nerve Tonic. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-; courses, 23/6,
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
are a permanent cure for all Chronic Blood
and Skin Diseases, Blotches, Blood Disorders,
Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, &c.
Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER & KIDNEY PILLS
cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulence,
Heartburn, Wind, Biliousness and Headache.
Boxes, One Shilling.
ALFALINE RHEUMATIC PILLS.
Guaranteed to cure Rheumatism, Gout,
Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted 3/-,
6/-, 12/- & 23/6. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
ALFAUNE ASTHMA & COUGH PILLS.
A wonderful remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis, Influenza and Asthma.
Boxes, posted, 3/-, 6/-, 12/- & 23/6.
GENERAL REMEDIES.
Alfaline Pile Powders, cure internal and
external Piles, boxes 3/- and 6/-; Varicocele
Powders, boxes 6/-; Blood Capsules or
Globulus, 6/-; Fat-Reducing Powders, which
removes corpulency, 6/- ; Hair Restorer, 6/-;
Corn Cure, 1/- ; Ointment, 1/-; Eucalyptus
Oil and Jujubes, boxes 1/-; Flesh-Producing
Powders, 6/-; Worm Tablets, 1/-; Headache
Tablets, 1/- ; Electric Belts, Suspenders,
Bandages, etc. Circulars with all particulars
sent Free.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
HERR RASSMUBSEN has made special arrangements for attending
personally to his Clients living in the Country, and Letters ■will receive
most careful attention.
His Remedies will he forwarded to sufferers, packed in plain cover and
unobserved, together with Advice and Directions. Letters should be addressed
to Herr Rassmussen’s full name—HANS PETER RASMUSSEN—and
Registered if containing Money.
Herr Rassmussen’s Addresses
Head Office: 547 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY,
AX.SO AT
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke Street
BRISBANE-309 Queen Street
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney Street
N. 2.—91 Lambton Quay, Wellington
W.A—PERTH—4BI Hay Street
KAL&OORLIE—Hannan Street
BOULDER ClTY—Piesse Street
FREMANTLE-117 High Street
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION, .
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of Alfaline Remedies.


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
A most, useful Veterinary Book is attached
to every bottle of Condy’s Fluid. This Book
contains instructions for curing most of the
ailments and accidents affecting Horses,
Dogs, Sheep, Cattle and Poultry.
In this Book eminent Veterinary Sur-
geons recommend Condy’s Fluid as a
certain cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
Broken Knees, Grease, Thrush and
Cracked Heels in Horses. —-Scab, Foot
Hot, Fly, etc., in Sheep.—Hoove, Foul in
the Foot, Wounds and Sores in Cattle.
Condy’s Fluid is made by Condy &
Mitchell, Ltd., of 65, Goswell Road,
London, England, and is sold by all
Chemists and Stores. Beware of Colonial
substitutes. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
m
GrO TO HELL-
IGOLANP for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
hats: HATS. hats.
BRISBANE.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with thi3
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Important Announcement to our City and Countr
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydnoy,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff,
y Sales Held at the Auction ltooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-sto
THERE IS NO BUGGY
so suitable for all Back Country work as
Will do the work of a Buckboard; ride as
paCiV as a Buggy. Has no undergear, yet is not a Buckboard ; all the body on
vet is not a Buggy. Same Price, any Port, any State in the Common-
wST' y $E PAY TUB FREIGHT, and Duties are eft
CASH
nwT.v
SIMPSON’S ‘GIL GAI.’
SIDNEY SIMPSON, Coachbuilder, 73 King St, Newtown, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“Rule Japannia ! ” (revised version).
Queensland Labor party gains ground
steadily. Its progress for 12 years : 1890,1; 1893,
4; 1896, 17; 1899, 20; 1902, 24. This despite
the toughest and most shamelessly tyrannical
election laws south of the equator.
Westralian members of the House of Reps,
hate John Forrest with a consuming hatred. It
seems certain that most of the sting would be
taken out of their opposition to the Barton Govt,
if John could be dropped overboard.
The Indian colored officers, said Premier
Barton, the other night, “ are gentlemen, and can
pass all your educational tests. ” The contemptuous
“ your ” is significant. Barton carefully dissoci-
ates himself from the low democratic anti-nigger
movement before going to London.
Victorians are amused to notice how the
Age has the Argus harnessed up behind in the
agitation for “reform.” The Argus dare not let
fo, and yet it is daily being hurried nearer to the
orrifying notion that something must be done to
reform the House of 48 Rich Landlords.
Accident, or antidote, the fact of the pub-
lication by Sydney D.T. of that eulogistic article
on the late Sir Neville Chamberlain, gallant
British field-marshal and pro-Boer, alongside the
mouthings of Boyce, Broughton, and other local
self-appointed Empire-savers, caused much com-
ment.
Philp says he is going to close the Bowen
railway for economical reasons. But isn’t Bowen
the dreaded rival of Philp’s constituency (Towns-
ville), and didn’t the Bowenites dare to think for
themselves and return a Laborite ? Thus does
Robert of Townsville kill two birds with one
stone.
AUSTRALIAN PUGILISM—THE STATE
OF THE GAME.
ADMIRER: "Here, why don’t you get up a fight
with young Murphy?”
P UG.: “No fear—he ain't no friend of mine! ”
It is up to the pro-Jingo and ultra-loyalist
Philp to see that the firm of Burns, Philp and
00. (who apparently now contemplate seeking a
new protector under the despised Dutch flag up
New Guinea way) are compelled to take his name
off their signboard. Otherwise people may not
think that he is out of that firm.
Nominations for Adelaide City promise a
lively struggle for the new House of Assembly.
Under the new Act, the three old districts are
knocked into one, with but four members. All
the six old members are standing again, also the
present Mayor of the city, and two others. The
result may be literally anything.
The rush Sydney D.T. makes to denounce
Imperial Federation is not because it favors
Republicanism, but because such a federation
would, if attained, absolutely kill Freetrade.
England cannot even cross the threshold of the
preliminaries of the question without handing
Cobdenism over to the executioner.
The S.A. election campaign has resolved
itself into a three-cornered duel between the
Ministry (very moderate Liberals), the Opposition
(most immoderate Tories), and the Labor party.
Each is fighting the other two, although it is prob-
able, when all is over, that the Laborites will be
in their old position of make-weights.
Reid and Braddon, leaders of the Foreign-
trade Opposition in the Reps., made a great fuss
in introducing new member Hartnoll. He repaid
them by giving his first three votes against the
crowd which so enthusiastically fathered him.
Hartnoll is a pleasant kind of Tory, full to the top
of his head with familiar Conservative wheezes.
No Australian State votes up to its
strength like Queensland. During the late elec-
tion Rockhampton polled 79 per cent, of total
votes on the roll; Bundaberg nearly 80 per cent. ;
the Flinders nearly 73 per cent. In the last-
mentioned electorate large numbers of men
travelled from 50 to 100 miles to record their vote.
Daily paper item :
Mr. W. P. Crick (Lands Minister) and Mr. M'Masters,
chairman of the Western Lands Board, leave Sydney on
Saturday. They return overland, inspecting en route the
Western Division of this State.
And there was to be no “ political influence ” in
regard to the Western Land Board.
The inclusion of the woman vote in the
Federal Electoral Act moved Pulsford and other
fossils to protest that women didn’t want a vote
and therefore shouldn’t have it. It is equally
relevant that landholders didn’t want a land-tax,
yet they got it. Voting is a duty as much as a
privilege—quite as much a duty as paying land-
tax.
A Coronation Representation Bill, to
authorise the splashing around of £35,000 of
Australian money over Edward Vll.’s putting on
of his official hat in London, is the Federal
G-overnment’s latest rush of uselessness to the
head, though £IO,OOO of the proposed expenditure
was wisely rejected by the Representatives.
Including the Record Reign, the Mafeking
Orgy, the Commonwealth Celebration and the
Coronation, Australia has quite an imposing
record of recent official drunks.
All the fat men—the stockbrokers, mer-
chants, landlords, and such like—who skited
two years ago about their readiness to make
sacrifices for the Empire,
having consistently de-
dined to put up a, copper
of new taxation, the
cohentingent curse
keeps coming home to
roost on the doorstep
of the poor. Queens-
land adds its war de-
ficit to the public debt,
and proposes to re-
trench by cutting down
salaries and shutting
up railways—not rail-
ways near to the fat
man’s city of Brisbane.
Victoria cuts down the
poor man’s old age
pension. South Aus-
tralia’s own special
Jenkins proposes to
make the man with £2
a week pay income-tax,
which hitherto only
fell on the man with
over £3 17s. per week.
In each case the saving all goes, and
more than goes, in war expenses,
and in each case the new infliction
wouldn’t have been required if the
white-waistcoated patriots who were
going to make sacrifices for the
Empire hadn’t been the ' blithering
frauds they were.
That was unwise of the House of Reps,
to take the 25 per cent, duty off “regalia” (em-
broidered woven sashes, etc.). Young_ Australia
carries far too much “ regalia,” Imperial regalia,
lodge regalia, religious regalia—friendly society
regalia—to keep its legs limber. A prohibitive,
duty on all such mummery would be an excellent
idea.
W.A. Zeal, who was a furious anti-female
suffragist for so long, now barracks in the Senate
for the enfranchisement of the sex. It was Zeal
who told a deputation of Melbourne women that
they had only their own sex to blame for the fact
that the vote was denied them, and got the
acrid reply: “Yes, I am convinced it is so, since
interviewing the Council.”
Edmund Barton drifts daily further away
from the Maitland programme and all pretence of
Australianism. Discussing the visit of the Indian
troops to Australia during the Commonwealth
celebrations, in the House of Representatives, he
was careful to point out that the officers “ were
gentlemen and could all pass the educational test ”
of the Aliens Immigration Restriction Act. The
White Australia objection to colored immigrants
is not that they are insufficiently genteel (most
Asiatics are fawningly polite), but that they can’t
mix in marriage and citizenship with our people
without our racial degradation. And Mr. Barton
goes out of his way to tell us that the genteel
alien has the freedom of our continent!
The Philp Govt, hasn’t even got
any “manners.” It not only declines to
allow Federal members to pass their wives
over the railways but actually refuses to
take the guarantee of the Commonwealth
Government for the payment of fares and
demands spot cash on the issue of the
tickets ! Queensland is notorious for in-
fluential railway dead-heads, so the sud-
den frugality of Philp and Cos. can only be
explained by the fact that the bulk of
Queensland’s Federal Representatives are
Labor men, who can ill afford to pay
railway fares from their humble £4OO
a year. Philp likes to be nasty to Labor
men.
An infuriated and somewhat mixed
correspondent writes to The Bulletin
from the South Coast (N.S.W.) re a
mayoral election at North Illawarra :
A country Mayor, resigning his seat be-
cause they would not pay their loan, and
voting for his successor against a Scotsman
because the other was a native, gives the
lie to your continual gibes at this land as
the land of borrowed money and bloated
Jingoism. So cease your miserable shrieks
against the land you get your living in.
—Yours, Anti-Boer.
Seeing that his Worship threw
the business up in disgust be-
cause he couldn’t get the council
to make an effort to pay off the
borough debt, and the debt is
still standing, it seems rather as
if this was the land of borrowed
money, right enough.
Patriotism ! Also the dear
old mother country ! Letters re-
ceived by N.S.W. legislators from
oohentingenters in fact and in prospect*
I am leaving with next contingent, and am
very thankful to you for your influence. I hope
to get out of the war-business pretty soon after
I get over and try for a Government position.
It seems a good opening for a young man, and
if I did not get away with this contingent the
chances are I would never earn enough here to
pay my passage over.
Another:
I would be thankful if you would try to get me away
in the contingent. lam ready any time, and have passed
D r . . lam going to try and get on the railway there
after a bit, and that's what I want to go over for. If you
can’t get me away with contingent try and get me away
with horses.
Facts.
Sawers, Cruickshank, and Macdonald-
Paterson are the three Reps, who cause the
Govt, whip most anxiety. Each calls himself a
“ moderate ” Protectionist, and all are Freetraders
where their own pockets are concerned. The last-
named, who has wailed much about the ruin
of Q. revenue, lost £IO,OOO per annum to his State
by his absence from the vote on cotton and linen
piece goods.
The Bishop of Hereford, in the House of
Lords, on the war:
The policy of unconditional surrender, which means
“ Surrender, and you will take what we give you,” will
compel the Boers—if they are like Englishmen—to go
on fighting so that the war will never have an ending.
You cannot expect them to lay down their arms without
knowing what they are going to get. The “ spectacular
and political executions” are the sowing of dragon’s
teeth.
In Maoriland, last year, the number of
children attending school diminished by over
16,000—left hurriedly to work on the farm in
place of elder relatives gone Boer-killing. And
in the last two years the cultivated area has
diminished from 2,009,251 to 1,578,958 acres, and
the wheat-crop has gone down more than one-half.
Again, the only visible reason is that the agricul-
turists have gone Boer-killing.
The “Imperial enthusiasm of Australia.’’
Suppose it were seriously proposed by any State
Govt., on the eve of a general election, that, for
the purpose of raising a contribution to Imperial
war charges, a direct tax of £2 per head, payable
within a year, should be levied on every adult
male earning a minimum of £2 per week—that
State Govt, would be thrown out of office with
such violence that you would hear its skull crack
three blocks off.
Premier See of N.S.W, says he is going
to bring in a comprehensive Local Government
Bill next session. Capt. Cook made the same
remark to the Bulletin’s ancestor in 1770. They
had landed together at Botany Bay, and looking
round Cook said to the ancestor that it appeared
to be a very good country if it only had a com-
prehensive system of Local Government, and a
blackfellow on the shore remarked that the Bill
was going to be introduced immediately.
The Argus, in a spasm of slangy hysteria
over the Vie. Parliamentary Reform movement
advocates the reduction (of the House) to “46
billets at £2OO a year,” as though it were hiring
junior reporters or messengers, and winds up,
“it is certain that smaller pay and larger elector-
ates will give the people a higher class of repre-
sentatives.” But its Tory managers take fine care
not to conduct their business on the small pay
principle; they know a trick worth two of that.
Review of Reviews :
Australia has 14 Houses of Parliament counting 751
members —for a population of less than 4,000,000. ... It
is to be recognised, too, that the Labor party, by
deliberate policy, is opposed to any reduction in the scale
or cost of Parliaments.
Considering that the Labor party in several
States has declared itself in favor of abolishing
half-a-dozen Leg. Councils without delay, the pre-
ceding statement is fairly audacious —and men da-
cious.
The justice of the Boodlewraith.
Two Govt. Printing-office employes
unsuccessfully contested seats in
the Labor interest; result—Sack.
A railway tried to oust
a Labor member, and, after the
battle, was reinstated at an
increased salary.
FACT.
FOREIGH INQUIRER (at Melbourne Public
Library): “Have you a work on the Pre-
paration of Dynamite? ” (Fired out.)
Premier Jenkins Iscariot has broken right
away from S.A. Labor Party, and is evidently
anxious to make the breach as wide as possible.
Works Minister Foster, the bete noir of the Trades
Hall, even went to the extent of speaking sneer-
ingly of “the workman’s idol, Mr. Kingston.
“Jinks,” cute Yankee that ho is, sees that
Democracy just now is on the ebb in S.A.
owing to the lack of capable leaders, so he is
edging up to the National Ass., which is very
friendly to his Cabinet.
A Redistribution of Seats Bill is likely to
be amongst the first measures introduced into Q.
Assembly when it meets in June, reducing the
number of members by about one-third, but it is
not proposed that it shall take effect until next
election, probably three years hence. Philp has
now got a majority, and has some more syndicate
railways up his sleeve. Besides, he contends that
it would cost as much to run another general elec-
tion as would be saved in salaries, so a proposal
will doubtless be made to reduce the members
salaries, or else revert to the old system of non-
payment, and thus strike a deadly blow at the
Labor party.
Arthur Griffith’s pamphlet on the .war,
“True Facts about the Transvaal,” published
from the Worker office, Sydney, is mainly ma
up of excerpts from Mr. J. A. Hobsonis boo ,
and gives in 24pp. enough truth about o 4
to confound any Jingo. Some new mat er .
supplied by Mr. Griffith’s own pen, such as tins.
Just about the commencement of the war-fury, ™ 1 e
the papers were reeking with tales of hoer atr »
number of Transvaal miners returned to this Stat .
of them, well-known Newcastle residents, called o
the Leg. Assembly and stated that no t
Parliament was perfectly true—that the .SAnftmders
in any way attempted to illuse or insult the OuUanders,
I asked these gentlemen if. they would mmd gpving an
interview to the representative of the Newcastl
This interview was given in the presence of i [ . J
M.P., and myself, yet not one word of it was „
to appear in the mineowner-owned Newcastle He
THE TITLE-SEEKER’S HYMN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Expressly dedicated to certain title-seeking Australian
Jingo politicians now expectantly awaiting tne
Coronation.
Nearer, my gaud, to thee !
Nearer to thee,
E’en though through seas of blood
I swim to thee.
Still all my song shall be :
Nearer, my gaud, to thee !
Nearer to thee !
Though, like the murderer,
My hands be red,
This, my sweet litany,
Aye, shall be said,
And in my dreams I’ll gee
Nearer, my gaud, to thee 1
Nearer to thee 1
Then let the way appear
Unto the throne,
Where I go abjectly
On marrow-bone !
Joe Cham, doth beckon me
Nearer, my gaud, to thee !
Nearer to thee.
Here with my waking thoughts.
Fixed on my gaud,
I do all constantly
Joseph applaud !
He holds my soul in fee,
Broker, my gaud, for thee !
Broker for thee !
What though as bauble’s price-
My land’s betrayed ?
I, for my treachery,
Shall be repaid !
So all my song shall be—
Nearer, my gaud, to thee !
Nearer to thee!
GRANT HERVEY.


3U }Ceed
mm
Thkrb is probably no musical instrument so generally
discussed and so thoroughly enjoyed as the Pianola.
Entirely unknown in Australia three months ago, it has
bounded into popularity, accompanied by an enthusiasm
indicative of unusual arousing of public interest.
It has found its way into every quarter of the Globe,
and the enthusiasm is not confined to any class or pro-
fession. Musicians and Amateurs praise and buy the
Pianola.
What has caused this stirring of Public
and Professional interest?
The Pianola is the wonder as it is the triumph of
the Century, and marks a new era in Pianoforte
playing.
The Pianola has touched the keynote of an
Universal Need. Many people have music in their
souls, but few can spare the time to get it into their
fingers. Even those who devote their entire life to music
can only get a limited amount of it into their fingers.
The Pianola, with its delicate mechanism, sensitive
to the player’s control, performs this part of the work,
leaving the player free to devote his whole time to
expression - that which makes a composition musical
You are cordially invited to visit our
Showrooms and see the Pianola and
hear it played—or, if unable to call (
send for Catalogue.
Cln JEolian Company of now Vork,
HENRY M. BIRGE <& CO.,
SYDNEY: 323 GEORGE STREET.
MELBOURNE! 185 & 187 COLLINS STREET.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA
CONSUMPTION
VERSUS
VITADATIO
-»
Another Victory for the
Great Herbal Remedy.
READ MR. RUDDOCK’S TESTIMONY.
192 Elizabeth-street, North Richmond,
Melbourne, April 22nd, 1901.
Mr. S. A. PALMER,
Dear Sir,—lt affords me very great pleasure to let you
know what Webber’s VITADATIO has done for me. Two
years ago last January I was brought home to my wife
very ill; a very peculiar feeling came over me, which
caused me to become quite helpless. My wife sent for a
doctor ;he ordered me to be painted with iodine. This
was done for seven weeks, and he (the doctor) then
ordered me to the Alfred Hospital. After being there for
two months, the doctor sent me home, stating that I was
too weak to go under an operation, and said that I must
go for a trip in the country. I did so, and returned home
slightly better; but after a few days I became much
worse with pneumonia, and after suffering six months
between life and death it was decided that I should go to
the Sanatorium for Consumptives at Echuca. My wife
interviewed the lady secretary of the Sanatorium,
stationed at Kew, and after examination by the doctors
they pronounced me a fit patient for that institution, as
I was full of consumption, but that I could not get in for
a fortnight, as there would not be a vacant bed till then.
At this time, Mr. Campbell, grocer and wood and coal
merchant, of Vere and Nicholson Streets, Abbotsford,
and now of Fairfield, urged me very strongly to try
VITADATIO, which I did. The first bottle upset me
very much, but -by the time I had finished the second
bottle I was able to get out of bed, and on taking the
third bottle I felt so improved that I decided not to go to
the Echuca Sanatorium. My wife took a message to the
secretary to that effect. I continued with VITADATIO,
and after taking nine bottles I was able to go to work, so
I called on Mr. Wallbridge, carrier, Lincoln-street, North
Richmond (my last employer) and started at once, and
have been there ever since. I do very heavy work
delivering coal. I feel strong and healthy, and can
truthfully say that VITADATIO has saved my life, and
the least I can do is to hand you this testimonial. It is
one year and eight months since I took the last bottle of
VITADATIO. I have lived in this locality for many years
and am well known. I will give further information to
anyone calling at my above address as regards my illness
and cure by VITADATIO, and you can refer to any of the
undermentioned names, who are quite prepared to sub-
stantiate my statement.—Yours faithfully,
THOMAS O. RUDDOCK.
E Ruddock,
28 St. Philip-st., Abbotsford.
A. Starr,
Varian & Hunter-sts., Abbotsford.
Samuel Eadley Hamislbton,
Bootmaker, 382 Smith-st., Collingwood.
Alex. 0. Kennedy,
Family Grocer (45 years’ standing)
390 Drummond-st., Carlton.
J. Campbell,
Bastins-st., near Fairfield Station.
Thos. Wallbridge,
38 Lincoln-st., Richmond.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
PRIMUS
KEROSENE-
BATH HEATER
m m
HOT . .
. . WATER
INSTANTLY.
NO
PLUMBERS'
WORK
REQUIRED
IN
FIXING.
SEND
FOR
CATALOGUE
Large Btock of Bath Heaters, suitable for Gas or
Chips—from 50s. each.
BRANDT BROS.,
236 PITT STREET,
... . SYDNEY
and 422 & 424 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
Cheapest House in Australia for EDISON
Phonographs *Records
“BIJOU,” with 6 Records .. .. .. £1 10 0
r,?J^ NDAE, P>” with 12 Records 5 10 0
EDISON HOME,” with 24 Records 810 0
COMBINATION A 1 “GRAND,” taking both
Large and Small Records, with 12 Records, 6
„£°“ rt (['j! l -) Recor ds and Large Horn .. 10 10 0
EDISON RECORDS, English and American,
per dozen - 100
CONCERT (sin.) RECORDS, per dozen.. .. 30 0
Send for Splendid New-
Illustrated Catalogue
containing 5000 Selec-
tions to choose from.
Electric Fans, with Bat-
tery, £5; Electric Bike
Lamps, 21s ; Flash
Lights, Scarf Pin Lights,
10s 6d; Vapour Bath
Cabinets, 20s; &e., Free.
Records can be posted
to any address.
Machines carefully
packed and forwarded
to any part of Austra-
lasia.
m
REEVES & CO„
KING WILLIAM ST., ADELAIDE
AUSTRALIAN . . .
STAMPS
Highest Cash Prioes Paid
to any amount for
Old or Rare Stamps,
Used or Unused.
The First
Australian Stamp.
*
m
For Sale—The Largest Stock of STAMPS, ALBUMS, etc.
in the Southern Hemisphere.
SMYTH & NIGOLLE, u Hunter-st., Sydi*
SOAPS that injure the skin are
dear at any price. A delicate
skin demands a delicate Soap
like VINOLIA, which improves
the complexion, and Purest,
Safest, and Best for the Nur-
sery.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
VINOLIA CREAM (for Itching, Sunburn, Prickly Heat, &c.)—4 sizes.
VINOLIA POWDER (lor Redness, Roughness, Toilet, Nursery, &c.) —4 sizes.
WINCHESTER
|| MODEL 1900 SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE II
s
mm
m
i
HIS rifle sells at a price within reach of almost every-
body’s pocketbook, but it is made with the same care and
exactness as Winchester rifles that cost five times as
much. The name “Winchester” on this rifle is a
guarantee in itself of its quality. The Model 1900 is a
hammerless take-down, and can be taken apart easily
and quickly. It is made with an 18-inch round barrel,
fitted with open front and rear sights. It shoots .22 Short and .22
Long Rim-Fire cartridges, and Bullet Breech caps. These cartridges cost
so little that one can afford to shoot as many times as he likes as often
as he likes. Some makes of .22 Caliber rifles are a few pence cheaper,
but they are a great deal cheaper in quality than they are in price.
We don’t try to see how cheap we can make this rifle, but how good.
FOR SALE BY ALL IRONMONGERS
SJOOO jqoA }Sp
WE
KNOW
We can
Fit You.
Boots
Exchanged
or
Money
Returned
if not
satisfactory.
■
s
1 mat
■'
BY POST
The
CALLAGHAN
BOOT
will give
you double
your
money’s
worth in
the Year.
Gentlemen ordering from the
country can quite easily get
new and stylish Boots or Shoes
BY POST; they can get all
the advantages in value that keen
city competition affords ; they can,
by following the we give
below, get an accurate, comfortable fit.
1. State size worn, and, if necessary, send
an old one as a check.
2. Place the foot upon a piece of paper and,
firmly pressing it down, draw a pencil line
closely round it for shape of tread.
3. State if your foot is narrow, medium, or broad, as we
have slightly different widths in every size.
4. State whether broad, medium, or narrow toes required.
French Calf Button, full goloshed, calf-kid legs, medium and wide welts, 23/6 ; post paid, 24/6
Tan Vici-Kid Button, soft, with the Tenacity of Steel, 25/- ; post paid, 26/-.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 George St., Sydney


Banking, Public Companies, fte.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
Cs>
&
BllilaS
DISCOUNTED.
P|ont deplete DJI. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
*7 A CASTLEREAGH ST.,
' SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
-THE-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Brijck Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372 —assuring £26,085,346.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576.850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal.Bonuses —equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK. J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of north Queensland
1,1 M IT El'.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 900 ... £350,000
||eiu Zealand Insurance Qo.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Co'oitial Company.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
81 Pitt St., Sydney.
T* Trustees, CwtitorS,
AND
AgsiKV CoippaOY Liipitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) ... ■ £BB5B 7 3
Amount, at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1901 ... £6,388,976 5 3
Directors : F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manage!
No. 412 Collins-street. Melbourne. _
Royal Bank of Queensland
J ZIMIT.ICIh
CAPITAL PAID-UP £423,000
RESEBVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 209,581
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 54,000
£686,581
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr. , W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital
.. £2,500,000
Ocean
A ccident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. oT the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M ‘Mill an, Hon. A. W. Meeks.
Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq. Wellington : H.
Beauchamp, Esq.
Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Fakquiiar ; Wellington, N.Z., 0. M. Montefiork.
J, J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
181 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
RUPTURE
CURED
without
operation or pain,
Threw away
your Trust
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-dav for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., ENG.,
Cor Russell a. Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Sat., April 19,12 Noon.
Konoowarra, Tues., April 22, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, April 26, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer Early.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer Early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Sat., April 19, 12 Noon.
• Buninyong, Tues., April 22, fi p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., April 26,12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Sat., April 19,12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat., April 26,12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal , Capetown, Plymouth, and
London»
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
London .. .. £55 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. £3l 10s .. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, parker g go’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORI’S.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Hates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
iV
A.2NTI3
a jmit:
A
via
San Francisco,
California.
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS,
SIERRA
SONOMA
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P.
Length, 425 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.. ZTD.
BURNS, PHILP & GO., LTD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
time table.
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
AS&Ciraocc Society.
(ESTABLISHED 1879.)
THE MOST LIBERAL AND PROGRESSIVE
LIFE OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA.
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and Castlereagh
Streets, Sydney.
VICTORIAN BRANCH:
Baring Chambers, Market Street, Melbourne.
Wm. Bennett, Manager.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH:
36 and 38 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
JAS. GLISSAN, Resident Secretary.
GEO. CROWLEY, General Manager.
A GIFT FOR THE LADIES,
m m
We make this
Special Ofler
to advertise
our
Ostrieh
Tips.
5/-
The Bunch
Post Free.
TWO VERY SUPERIOR
TIPS, with OSPREYS,
WRITE TO-DAY. in black, white, or cream,
SEND POSTAL NOTES. worth 10/6.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bonrke & Swanston sts., Melbourne
m
A NICE PRESENT.
The New Combination PIN-
CUSHION, THIMBLE & REEL
HOLDER, nickel plated, plush
top. Clamps on to any table
by means of a spring’. Price,
only 2s. ; post free.
Star Novelty Company,
229-231 Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Oltf Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poinguestke & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efl&cacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. <fe Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
KT. D. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OP
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
Interstate First Glass Return Tickets are now available
tor Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. TANG LIN, 30th APRIL,
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities - Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEIIER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
IN connection with
CANADIAN - PACIFIC RAILWAY.
THE . . .
“ALL-RED”
ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL:
21st April, 19th May,
16th June.
Choice of Routes: via Brisbane, or New
Zealand, Fiji, and Honolulu.
Cheapest Route. Quickest Time.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passengei Agent.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
J3T" Every Requisite' for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
CJAA.IG & AITKEW,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 23 Cabinet size photos.
ss. P. 0.0. or stamps.
8. REOKNACEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Germany.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
toall North Western Ports
S.S. Cintra,
Friday, April 18.
S.S. Marloo(from Melbourne)
Tuesday, April 29.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
Townsville
And Ports North to Oairns
S.S. Allinga,
Friday, April 18, at 5 p.m.
Best and Cheapest lloute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A. U.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith Co.,
Ld. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
A. U. S. INL Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE -Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS- Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKE TOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passeni/er Accommodation, Attendance find
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application,
i For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
I BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, 111 Bridge-
BtreeL_Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P AND O. COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting 1 at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
. on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
* Via Hobart.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £/7
Ditto Ditto Return,£66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific,
Messageries Maritimes and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows : -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer.
EASTERN
AIRLIE
Tns Commander. iLeave-Sydney.
3660 Winthrop Ellis .. 'May
25005 t. John George.. May
AUSTRALIAN .. 3000 P. T. Helms .. June
GUTHRIE .. 2500 W. G. M'Arthur.. June
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific and other Steamship
Companies.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney,
. . SMOKE. .
THE
G
INSIST
on having this Brand
and no other.
JULIUS SOLD SCHMID Ti CO.
231 Clarence Street, Sydney*


WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL &
SURGICAL INSTITUTE
IN LIFE’S GREAT RACE
Your desires are to be with the VICTORS, not the VANQUISHED. To TRIUMPH SOCIALLY, DOMESTICALLY.
PHYSICALLY, you require ENERGY, STRENGTH, ENDURANCE. If you desire to reach the HIGHEST ALTI-
TUDE OF PHYSICAL PERFECTION, with each day full of A JOYOUS PLENITUDE OF UNFAILING POWER,
the new treatment of ELECTRICITY and MEDICINE will give it you. Electricity is NATURE’S CURATIVE and
CREATIVE ELEMENT. It never fails when SCIENTIFIC SPECIALISTS JUDICIALLY APPLY IT.
If vou have Droved a DECREASE OF PHYSICAL POWER DAILY, and your system has run down in yourpnme
of years to the verge of an unnatural old age, a course of ELECTRO-MEDICATION will ofUyour f U y 0 ur system
tested ELECTRIC “ INVIGORATORS,” worn for a few hours nightly, will pour into Jaded spr'ngs of ymar system
a renovating nerve power which will give you a NEW LEASE OFLI™ A
alone is ineffectual. In all Disorders of the STOMACHIC AND VITAL POWERS, th g
Special Medicines augment the Curative Electric Current.
PRICES
The “ Invigorator’s ” Prices are as follow, and there is no reason why you should pay more: —
Cooper Plated, ; SMver Plated, £1 10s. ; Solid Silver, £,3 ; Solid Cold (stamped), £IQ.
PRICES
The Institute’s 550
Page Publication,
“ bihiicai
Experiences,”
THRESH from the hands of the
Printer, is the Institute’s
Annual Publication. “Clini-
cal Experiences,” elegantly
bound, admirably printed,
profusely illustrated, des-
criptively written, it is a
medical volume all should
possess. It can be purchased
for One Shilling sent to the
Specialists, who will mail it
free to all Australia. The
Edition cf 15,000 copies have
been practically ordered, and
all orders are at once noted.
The Book contains 550 pages
of Medical Literature, 150
full-page Plates and Medical
Illustrations, over 30 Chapters
Treating of Several Diseases,
with Special Articles upon
Poisons and Antidotes, Burns,
Scalds, Drowning, Invalids and
their Treatment, Sick Room
Advices, Snake Bites, Fevers,
etc. This makes it invaluable
to people in the outlying por-
tions of Australia. It is a
work everyone should obtain.
It is practically given away.
It is a handsome (addition to
the Household Literature, and
is in itself A Whole Library of
Facts.
, \
n
■ V
ifc
m m
sntMf y '® :
f/y y
/<y y
€
£ t
What Electricity and
Medicine does for
Brain, Nerve and
Muscle.
Electricity and Medicine,
the judicious use of which
proves a restorative agent
of great power in recreating
healthy conditions in men
and women, is amazing the
medical faculty by its cures.
It has made the names of the
Specialists of the Freeman
and Wallace Electro-Medical
and Surgical Institute famous
over Australasia. It is proved
Electric-Medication, supervised
by skilled Specialists, is sin-
gularly successful in cases
where disease arises frcm
structural changes of the great
nervous centres, as in jiaraly-
sis, or other nerve disorders.
Where nerve force or anim il
magnetism is lacking, this
new treatment restores. Once
restored, new life is given.
Disease is driven out of the
system. The Specialists have
attained this end in thousands
of cases, and continue to
brighten homes and lighten
suffering day by day. They
hive thousands of tes'i-
monials from all parts of
Australia to this effect.
What Mr. E. H. AMES, exponent in Australia of the new n Tod Sloan ” style of riding says:
Messrs. FREEMAN and WALLACE, SPECIALISTS IN NERVOUS DISEASES. Australian Jockey Club Hotel, Randwick, March 12th, 1902.
“ I endorse the new methods of muscular and nervous restoration practised by you in your system of Electro-Medical treatment. I attribute to it much of the strength of nerve and mental power by which I was successful in
winning two great racing events in one day.’’ (Signed) EDWARD H. AMES.
What Mr. MAT. MITCH lE, Professional Pugilist, says:
“ I have worn one of your Electric ‘ INVIGORATOKS.’ To its strengthening effect I attribute much vigor
and staying power.”
Mr. JOSEPH MEOSON, Champion Cyclist of N.S.W., attests:
“ I suffered keenly from nervousness for some time. Your methods of Electro-Medication restored me to a
strength of which I had despaired.”
NINE DIPLOMAS AND CERTIFICATES OF QUALIFICATION AND REGISTRATION BY THE MEDICAL BOARDS OF.N.S. WALES, VICTORIA, SOUTH AUSTRALIA, ENGLAND AND AMERICA, OPEN FOR INSPECTION,
BY THE PHYSIOIAN-IN-CHIEF, DR. WALLACE, LATE IIOM(EOPATHIC HOSPITAL. MELBOURNE, AND BRITISH IMPERIAL ARMY MEDICAL STAFF.
FREEMAN & WALLACE
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director Electro-Medical Dept. RICHARD WALLACE, Physician-in-Chief.
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute
Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
Confidence
Economy
Satisfaction
These three words tell the story
why you should buy here. With
our six busy stores (Sydney,
Melbourne, Auckland, Perth,
Christchurch and Wellington)
we are able to save you money
on anything in our line you
may want. Every taste and
every purse finds satisfaction
here.
m
412 GEORGE 6- SYDim^
E 5023. —9c. Gold Long Muff Cham, £3 15s.
No. F 6105. Solid
Silver Chatelaine
Spectacle Case, £2 6s
/m
*3
No. F6l33.—Silver-plated Toast Rack.
Six divisions. 18s. 6d.
No. FB39.—Silver-plated Butter
Dish, with Knife. 9s. 6d.
No. F3s62.—Massive Solid Silver
Cabinet Photo Frame, 163 6d.
No. 352 A Glass and
Silver-plated Cruet, with
Spoons. 10s. 6d.
No. F 563. —Silver-plated and Engraved
Sugar Scuttle. £1 ss.
No. F77B.—Silver-plated Clear Glass
Butter Dish. 12s. 6d.
No. E946.—Solid Silver Shell Butter
’ Dish and Knife in Case, £1 ss.
u
No. F 6756. —Pretty Silver-
plated Child’s Cup. 6s. 6d
H © <S Si
No. 167.-180. Gold,
Diamond and Ruby
Ring, £2 ss.
No. 17.—15 c. Gold
Opal and Pearl Set
Scarf Pin, £1 10s.
No. E9265.—501id Silver Shaving Brush.
12s. 6d.
No. E 4182. —Silver-plated
Candlestick. 12s. 6d.
No. E8024.--.Silver-
plated
Candlestick. 12s. 6d.
ding Ring, £1 15s.
Others, 21s, 255, 30s,
40s, .58s, 60s.
No. F3021.—9c. Gold
. Pearl or Turquoise
Set Tie Clips, 14s 6d.
No. 36.—180. Gold and
5 Diamonds Engage-
ment Ring, £5 ss; Dia-
mond & Ruby, £3 10s.
No. 198A.—9c. Gold
Links, 15s fid.
Silver ditto, 4s.
No. Fl7s9.—Solid Silver Cigar
Cutter. 6s. 6d.
WlB. —Satin-lined and Silver-plated Trinket
Box, £1 2s 6d.
Nellie Stewart Bracelet, with practically Invisible Joint and Catch.
Made in three sizes, in-9e. and 15c. Gold We illustrate the middle
sizes. Prices—9c., £2 10s, £3 3s, £4 ; 15c., £3 7s 6d, £5, £7-
No. 113. —9c. Gold and Rose Diamond Set Brooch.
18s. 6d.
No. 015.—Specially Strong 9c. Gold Bar and Opal
Heart Brooch, £1 7s. 6d.
No. F4842.—15c. Gold and Fine Pearl New Moon
and Spray Brooch, £3 ss.
No. 109.—The Popular Bell Brooch, 9c. Gold,
12s. 6d.
iTT
No. F2691.—9c. Gold Strong Two Bar Brooch, 14s. 6d.
No. F593.—15c. Gold and Fine Pearl New Moon and
Spray Brooch, £5 10s.
No. F976.—16c. Gold and Pearl Set Scroll Brooch,
£ll7s. Gd.


JOHN JAMESON
“THREE-STAR” WHISKEY.
Agents ; J. BASSE JOHNSTON & CO., Loftus street, Sydney.
<&%*>*
REUTER’S
LITTLE
RILLS
FOR THE LIVER.
mm
For Town
Country °
Riding
bei mm aieyetEs
Perfect in every part. Fully guaranteed. P" Cash or Terms.
OOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King Street, Sydney.
Send for Booklet.
Hardy’s Tintara Wines
Absolutely Pure; Fully Matured; 700 Medals, etc.
Adelaide:
CURRIE STREET
Melbourne:
COLLINS STREEI
Sydney:
GROSVENOR STREET
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The sudden discovery of Wakeful as a first-class
stayer is the most interesting surprise the Australian turf
world has experienced for years. It was not as though
the previous running of the grand little mare had ever
suggested that her careful trainer didn’t thoroughly
understand her capabilities. A consistently brilliant
E erformer over any distance up to 1£ miles, she seemed to
e a consistent failure over longer courses. True, she
finished third for Sydney Cup last year, but then she had
only a middle-class weight to carry, and in a not very fast-
run race she tired a little at the finish. Wakeful’s famous
pace-making performance in Caulfield Cup this year con-
firmed the previous evidence of her disposition to get
away with the lead and keep it till something outstayed
her. Now we know that the stoutly-bred flyer, had
she been differently trained and ridden in the spring,
would have easily taken Caulfield Cup from Hymettus,
instead of getting beaten half-a-head by the big
horse. But the stable estimate of Wakeful looked
quite correct at the time. A fly-away race was her best
race, it seemed. In Meb. Cup she played second fiddle to
Revenue, the reputed stayer of the stable, who duly
brought off the “ dead certainty.” Then again, in March,
came the dire defeat of Wakeful by La Carabine over the
3 miles Champion course. The time was slow, but the
distance proved too much for the daughter of Trenton
and Insomnia. After passing the post she nearly fell over.
A rush of blood to the head was the matter with her.
Nobody who saw Wakeful return to scale from the
Champion course could expect her to develop into a
2 miler and 3 miler within the next four weeks. A change
in the mare’s track work must have discovered the
stamina and steadiness which had always seemed wanting
in her. The Bulletin would expect great things of
Wakeful next year if racing stewards were vigilant
and severe in their dealing with cronk jockeyship. Under
existing conditions the fate of Wakeful, should she start
in any more big handicaps, will be the fate of Revenue.
The monkey boys will bring her to grief.
* * * *
Seafarer, winner of hurdles at Randwiek,
Saturday, though only a new performer, made a big im-
pression at the lepping business. Though green at first
he looked a veteran towards the finish, and jumped like
an old stager. Seafarer is built for the game, and owning
some pace, should prove a good money-making medium.
Was bred by Mr. G. Osborne, and is the get of Marvellous
horse Will-o’-the-Wisp from Seagull, the dam of Iron
Duke, Loch Fad and Sea Squall. Seagull was by Welling-
ton (whence Seafarer’s jumping powers probably come),
out of imported mare Sea Swallow. The sire of Seafarer
is half-brother to Moorefield and Light Artillery.
Usually well-informed Albert Cornwall stable
fell in over Mr. Richards’ two • nags—Ferryman and
Aurantia—in successive Flying and Novice Handicaps at
City Tatts. Former lined up with tens offered and very
little asked for, and won easily ; while latter gave Mo an
absolutely clean sheet, triumphing convincingly over
several much in demand among the 18 others engaged
Aurantia is by Grand Flaneur from the Trenton mare,
Goldlike, and was bred by “ Bill ” Long. Second horse,
Trencherman, finished in a manner that suggests he’ll be
worth watching over a longer journey.
* » * *
Big sweep on City Tatt’s. Handicap, Saturday,
didn’t have much influence with the field, for of 21 carded
only seven lined up. Possibly drawers of nags failed to
come as freely as hitherto.
* * * •
’Twas only in accord with the fitness of things
that City Tatts. (a purely Mo institution) meeting at
Randwiek, Saturday, should prove more than usually re-
munerative to the raucous-voiced ; but it went further,
and sent them home broken-down with the weight of
shekels.
* * , • •
Early discussers of Victorian Derby possibilities
are favoring Brakpan’s prospects above all others. Com-
parative form between him and Loyal, when they got
together in the Select Stakes, seems to have been
forgotten. Just over Jm. Loyal looked to have the
money sure, but he couldn’t last it out. Appeared to
this writer that Brakpan’s great advantage was in having
had more of the game. Old hands ascribed Loyal’s failure
to lack of spunk, which t’other unquestionably owns
heaps of, judging by his struggles with Ceres and Suivre
at recent A.J. r ‘. Autumn meeting, making four races off
the reel. Probably it was merely want of the necessary
gallop or two to properly season him for so searching an
engagement. Abundance is another who threatens the
position. It is admitted that ill-luck brought about his
defeat in the Sires Produce ; and Ascot Yale Stakes saw
Brakpan squelch him by a head ; still, Abundance looks
like living the journey through, and is, consequently, not
to be treated lightly. English-owned colt Strata—Florida
is another worth considering. He promises much in the
way of staying, and, judging from appearances, can, and
probably will, come on a lot; for the rest, his Galopin—
Musket blood weighs weightily.
* * • / • .
Ronald, winner of the big money (G.E. Steeple)
at Onkaparinga has had a remarkable career. Bred in
the dry North, his breeder (A. M‘Donald) got rid of him
by raffle, few people up there having more than the price
of a tea-meeting ticket. Two lads won the animal; and
next he was swapped for 30s. and a broken-down crock.
His new owner put him into double harness, and then
raffled him, trap and harness for £4O. A syndicate of
four got him ; but after a few weeks three of them sold
out for a pound apiece. After he started up-country
racing his first transfer was at £9 ; a little later on he
was taken to Adelaide.
••• ' •
A very practical means of suppressing the
“foul” jockey was lately suggested by Javelin in The
Leader. Jav., who, by the way, is identical with “Mid
On,” the cricket scribe, was a rowing-man in his young
days, and perhaps it was from his experience of sports
which have umpires to watch every move that he evolved
his notion of a stewards’ motor-car. The motor-car
would run along an inner track beside the racecourse, and
the stewards would sit on the car and “ pipe off ” any
cases of fowl riding or “unintentional” interference
within the meaning of the Act. Then having seen what
they had seen, those autocratic authorities would punish
jockeys, disqualify horses when necessary, without going
through the farce of inviting evidence from riders who
are afraid to tell what they know. Why shouldn't a
horse-race be chased by an umpires’ car from start to
finish ?
« * * *
Wittown, one-time winner of Sandgate (Q.)
Handicap (and a good 2-year-old performer), was recently
sold out of Casino pound-yard for one penny , the pur-
chaser afterwards congratulating himself on re-selling for
a shilling.
* * • •
Otago (M.L.) Presbyterian Synod got an un-
expected plug in the eye over the gambling-question
from Crown-prosecutor Fraser, who told the clerical
crowd per written address that absolute suppression of
gambling is impossible though regulation thereof would
e beneficial. The aim, he contended, should be to keep
the tote on the racecourse, and rigorously to suppress
tote betting. Also, the onus of proof that they hadn’t
broken the law should lie on charged persons, who, if
convicted, should be gaoled without the option ; and, as
the profits of race clubs would rise with the suppression
of tote-betting they should pay a heavier tax.
• * * •
In Onkaparinga Cup (S.A.), on Easter Monday,
Combat, aged 5 years, proved too much for Lord Kit-
chener. In S’Africa, Combat, at present aged about 2J
years, has done the same.
M.L. racing clubs lately introduced the prac-
tice of paying tote-divs. on Ist and 2nd horses, in the
proportion of 75 per cent, on first and 25 per cent, on
second. This has had far wider results than were antici-
pated. The public has taken extensively to backing
more than one horse, as a result divs. are far lower than
ever before. Except with the rankest luck, it is now
impossible to lose or win much on the tote. But this has
not reconciled the pious brigade to the machine—the
white-chokered are yowling for its abolition more loudly
than ever. And Seddon seems to be cultivating the
clergy more than he used to.
• * • •
“ Mac.” : What’s the difference between invest-
ing in an art-union ticket and taking a chance in
“ Tattersall’s ” ? Was shown a list of prize-winners in
Stocks’ picture art-union, and noted the name of Balfour,
M. as having drawn first prize. Balfour, be it
remembered, was at the head and front of a churchy
opposition to a continuance of “ Tatt’s.” little gamble.
* « • *
Reported that an effort will be made to get
another race out of 10-year-old ’96 V.R.O. St. Leger winner
Cabin Boy, who completely collapsed 18 months ago.
The attempt will almost certainly prove a big failure.
* * • •
Melbourne “bookie” Barney Allen has been
gathering a big collection of racing nags for S’Africa and
now owns 50 first flighters and others. He still wants
ten or a dozen more. Latest purchases were Caledonia
£lOOO, and Dandy £Boo—both well sold.
* * • •
Said that Randwick trainer Kelso could have
had Lucknow for £3O before he raced bub refused the
offer. Later he gave over £3OO for him, and then the
investment was very profitable.
• » • »
Four years of Boulder (W.A.) Racing Club’s
existence have all seen rapid advances. Where £1750
was given for a two days’ meet last year, prize-money for
four days in August next will reach £4OOO. Boulder Cup
is to be worth £750, as against £6OO previously, and £5OO
will be available for a brush steeple. Inducement atop
of betting possibilities should now be good enough for
N. and Vic. owners.
* * * •
A mean-looking prad of obscure origin made his
appearance in his owner’s spring trap in a M.L. country
town a while back and drew the plough in the wheat
field. Then he was entered, presumably as a joke, at
various meetings, and raked in a number of purses.
“ Don’t know his pedigree,” said his owner with satis-
faction, “ but he’s only my old plough-horse.
• * * •
Seldom that an unplaced nag’s owner kioks
against interference by the ultimate winner—though
such cases are common—simply because protesting
would bring no benefit to the party suffering. Steeple at
Adelaide Summer meet provided an exception. Mermaid
got home easily, but Regent’s party objected to
Mermaid’s people handling the money on the ground
mentioned, and the objection was upheld, with the result
that Wiriawa (second), a stable chum of Regent’s, became
entitled to the prize. Writer can’t remember the occur-
rence of a parallel.
• • • •
At latest Onkaparinga (S.A.) R.C. one-day
meet the tote fractions, which go to S.A. charities,
reached £125.
• • • •
The team secured by Mr. C. L. McDonald at
the disposal of St. Albans’ stud cost him £3045, and has
brought a return in stakes alone as follows : Wakeful,
£10,017; Aurous, £1800; Revenue, £4867 ; Kinglike,
£803; Regained, £100; and Bullion, £3O7 —a total of
£17,894.
• * * •
After months of inactivity Sydney police
started raiding betting-shops again Saturday, and, as
usual, dropped on small out-of-the-way places. In
one instance they were beaten badly as the crowd
got away, but in the other they yarded 24—mostly
laboring men, clerks, drapers, assistants, and such. Big
establishments, where quadruple the number might have
been ensnared, were left religiously alone to do their
business openly and glaringly under the very noses of the
police—which is of course only pure accident. Another
remarkable accident was that' the day of a minor meeting
was selected for the swoop in preference to any one of the
four embraced by the A. J.O. Autumn gathering. Daily
paper statements that so and so planned the coup and
someone else ably assisted are simply tommyrot, con-
sidering that anyone may walk in and out of the shops
at will though he might not be able to bet.
* • • *
The cabled Glasgow football smash-up is about
the biggest recorded disaster directly connected with
sport. Fact is, few grounds can give a fair view of any
game to as many as 70,000 spectators, and that number is
now to be looked for every year at two events—the Eng-
land v. Scotland international and the final of the English
Cup (both, of course, Association, the hands-off-the-ball
code). At Rugby, 30,000 is about the maximum. The
Cup final has lately been a fixture at Crystal Palace
ground, laid out at the foot of a steep hill, which is all in
the Palace enclosure, so that an estimated 120,000 (!) wit-
nessed it all right last year. Other grounds, when a big
event is allotted to them, run-up immense half-crown to
half-sov. stands, but, as the late-comers in the shilling
crowd inevitably cannot see the game, there is always the
possibility of trouble. The only way to get a good " place
is to be there hours beforehand, and then you’re always
liable to be forced into the playing-space by a rush from
behind. This evidently happened at Glasgow. Then the
crowd, being driven back, over-swarmed into a stand, and
down it went. Kipling hadn’t to wait long for a
justification of his lines re the muddied oafs at
the goals. Judging from the appearance of Glasgow
on an ordinary Saturday, one may fairly suppose that
the 70,000 at the match included fully 15,000 people
who couldn’t reallyafford the presumable saxpence for
admission, and another 25,000 who were looking for
brutality in the game rather than for sport. The rushing
of the oval, the trampling-down of the intruders by
mounted police, the collapse of a wooden stand, and the
record of 22 killed and 100 seriously injured, make an
ugly story, anyhow. What a text for the parsons next
day! And what a “ throw in” for the spectacled
rhymster who lately railed at cricket and football
hysteria!
* * * •
Two days finishing tussle of Sydney first-
grade cricket—’tween Leichhardt-Balmain and Sydney—
began Saturday. Former batted first, notching 132,
A. Diamond (run out) contributing 49. Aboriginal Marsh
shaped remarkably well, bagging 6 for 47, all clean bowled
—convincing evidence that he is a first-rank bowler
against first-rank batsmen. A hoppy one from Marsh,
which Ashdown endeavored to swing round to leg, struck
the batsman ’tween the eyes, wounding him badly enough
to necessitate immediate surgical treatment. “ Time ”
saw Sydney 35 without loss, Deery being 29 not out.
Match will be resumed and ended this Saturday. Sydney’s
success looks assured. Leichhardt-Balmain shaped poorly,
perfect wicket, weather and other things considered.
**• , *
Bruiser Billy McColl doesn’t seem anxious
for a second meeting with Yankee Jim Scanlan.
Previous match ended most unsatisfactorily, in that,
after 20 rounds of hard fighting, McOo’ll got the
palm on points, when judges of the game con-
sidered it should have been the other way about, or, at
worst, a draw. Subsequently, McColl promised another
fight within a month, but four have passed, and the
meeting has been repeatedly put off by him on one
pretext and another, till now he says there can be no
match till June, which probably means never. The ex
road-mender is evidently much impressed with the
Murkan’s pug capabilities, and talks of taking on heavy-
weight champion of Australia, Bill Doherty, in preference.
Scanlan has much improved since his arrival here under
the training of pastmaster Mick Dunn.
* • • *
Melbourne’s lightweight bruiser Jack M'Gowan
will meet ex-Broken Hill miner, Mat Mitchie, at Sydney
Gaiety A. 0., Monday night. It's ahout the first time
M Gowan will have met one so nearly his match. The
struggle will certainly be torrid throughout, and it’s
more than possible that the Melb. curly-haired, stunted
giant will go under.
• • * •
On March 17th Australian top-notch 9-stoner,
Tim Hegarty, drew a second fight of 20 rounds with
Aurelia Herrera in California. First scrap went to
Hegarty on points. Latest battle, like most of Hegarty’s
demonstrated that he has plenty of skill but no smashing
power. Operations during last seven rounds described
as the fastest seen in that State. Hegarty led mostly
and should have got the money, but a judge appointed
by both principals gave his decision without reference to
a referee.
* * • »
“Old-Timer”; Defeat of Melbourne “Micko”
Walsh by the Sydney boy, Turner, was very unexpected.
Bruisers, to a man, tipped Walsh a “cert.,” and told
hair-raising tales of his ability to lick “ Mat.” Mitchie and
Jack ” Willis (whom he trained with) one after the other
in a couple of rounds. It was related that during a
rough-up Walsh (less than Bst.) sent Tim Nolan (15st)to
sleep, and knocked a couple of teeth down his throat. All
this caused sure-thing backers to lay 3 to 1 on the
Melbourne “ fedder." But Turner won. Walsh only
proved to be a vigorous two-handed fighter, who operates
mainly and effectively on the body. Turner shaped as
coolly as if he thought winning a “ moral,” and, though
punched hard and often, never winced or shrunk once
That Walsh fouled repeatedly, appearance of Turner’s left
groin vividly demonstrated.
* * * *
Swimming carnival in Sydney on Saturday for
raising,,money towards sending Australasian premier
Dick Oavill to England didn’t draw the crowd expected,
but still resulted profitably. Handicapped by the big set
back of his mother's death a few days previously and
consequent inability to continue preparing, “ Dick ” gave
Englishman Jarvis’ world’s 500yds. amateur record a big
shaking by finishing just 1 4-ssec. outside, which is over
15sec. better than the previous Australasian best
(6.52 1-5), also Oavill's. Ladies* 100yds. handicap saw
Misses Kellermann and Buttell improve on the English
ladies’ top figures (1.26) for the distance by 4secs. and
2-ssee. respectively.
• • • •
Ladies’ Mile Swimming Supremacy of N.S.W.
was decided at Sydney Domain Baths, Monday afternoon,
semi-privately, for only a privileged few appear to have
been made aware of the fact that it was to occur at all
Miss Kellermann led from start to finish, and won by a
wide margin from Miss Buttel, who struggled hard to
finish. Time (33.49) is said to be 6min. better than the
best ever accomplished by a lady in England. Miss
Buttel (37.1 2-5) also got within the ’Ome figures.
• * * *
Finish of big six days’ go-as-you-please struggle
at New York, on Feb. 15, was hideous. Forty-two pair
teams started, and only 15 finished, in a state of pitiable
collapse. Most of them were only half-conscious, and
were simply thumped along by their trainers. Physical
deterioration was remarkable, some men losing as much
as 201 b. weight in the week. The German-Irish combina-
tion (Hagelman and Kavanagh) got home best, having
covered something in excess of 770 miles. This twain
whacked £lOOO, but the drugs and high-priced concen-
trated foods consumed during the week reduced it by
£2OO. Fancy enduring such horrors for £4OO each, out of
which trainers had to be squared. Athletes are fools.
* * * »
The humor of wheel-racing. Plugger Martin is
receiving “appearance-money” from M.L. League of
Wheelmen, for racing at five centres. Two years ago,
that astonishing body disqualified its champion, Suther-
land, for eight months, for asking a fiver ex’s to enable
him to travel from the South to a Wellington meet.
There was a great outcry, because “ Suthy ” was going to
represent the province at Paris Exhibition, and the
embargo was removed in a month. But, after all, rules
are only made to be broken. It all depends who breaks
’em.
• * * *
“F.C.”: Re that Maori youth (8., 5/4/2) who
lately jumped over Wairua Falls (84ft.), a Collingwood
(Melb.) workman went down to Victoria-st. Bridge t’other
Sunday morning, and, for a wager of 255., dived 72ft. to
the Yarra below, clothes and all, save boots and hat. He
landed—from the spot where Laura Swain and Ruth
Woolston went over—in about 12ft. of pea-soup, and he
risked suffocation as well as drowning. Except for slight
nausea he felt none the worse.
* * • *
Pro-ped M‘Lachlan was downed t’other day by
cyclist G. Lewis in a 100yds. flutter for coin at Christ-
church (M.L.). _ The ground was a trifle heavy, but the
bike got there in 9 3-5, M’Lachlan’s time being lOsecs.
* * * *
London, somewhat tired of ping-pong, has now
taken to “ table-bowls,” a degradation of the good old
game of the greens to a parlor-table frivolity. Ping-pong
and table-bowls are sorrowful indications of progressive
effeminacy.
* • • w
The complimentary “ first bull’s-eye ” was
comically exposed in Adelaide on a recent Saturday. A
new range by the sea was opened by Col. Lovely, who
duly scored a bull’s-eye ; whereupon Tom Price, Labor
M.P., improved the occasion, remarking what a good
thing it is when the boss can take up a tool and show the
workman how to use it. Meanwhile, another range in
the hills was being opened by the Mayor of Adelaide.
He is no shot, and the bullet visibly knocked chips off a
wall not 40 yards away. But the distant marker, un-
aware of this, calmly signalled the conventional “ bull ”
all the same 1
* * • »
A M.L. pro. ped boasted lately whilst vinously
garrulous, that he had in three years been disqualified
five times, under different names, in various parts of the
province, for offences ranging from cronk running to
banging the judge on the jaw.
• * * *
The legal prohibition of netting in certain por-
tions of Port Jackson is a dead letter. Dagoes haul with
the most deadly bottom-scraper nets in open daylight,
and it appears to be no one’s business to interfere.
* • * *
The contests in two big Maori canoe events at
Ngaruawhaia regatta lately were remembersome. Five
boats started, two of ’em carrying 38 paddles, and t’others
23, 26, and 24 respectively. Both finishes (two and five
miles) were red-hot; and, in the last event, the judge gave
the victors a margin of 3in. Prizes were worth winning
—£3o, £l2, and £B—in each race.
• * a *
In reply to “ Tanin ” (Blackall, Q.). Measure-
ments given are much above the average.
• * * *
Plugger Bilmartin has been lopping M.L. bike-
records. T’other day he cut 4-ssec. from prior best
(Barker’s 31.2-5) for quarter-mile unpaced flying-start,
and also brought new figures (1.3 4-5) into existence for
the unpaced half, flying-start.
• • • *
A majority of M.L. race clubs now only pay
out two divs. in the event of six horses starting. The big
Auckland club, however, adheres to the farcical four-field
system, and in one race lately the winner paid 2s. 6d.,
while backers of the second neddy lost ss.
There was a noble row over “precedence”
at the Corowa Conference. The local committee
arranged to give the visitors a smoke concert.
Mr. Barton was assigned the head of the table,
with Mr. Peacock on one side and Mr. See on the
other. Then Mr. Lyne, with loud trumpetings,
announced that unless he were placed on the right
hand of the Federal Premier the banquet
would be deprived of its most distinguished
ornament. Mr. See reckoned he wasn’t
foing to take a back seat for 50 Ministers for
lome Affairs, and Mr. Peacock said likewise.
The Federal Premier was brought in to arbitrate
without success. Eventually Peacock waived his
claims and Lyne took his place. One would have
thought, so great was the row over the absurd
trifle, that it was a gathering of clerical dignitaries.
How about the “inevitable ruin of the
Queensland sugar industry ” through the abolition
of Kanaka labor? Already more than half the
planters have registered themselves —not in the
Insolvency Court, but under the Federal law,
as growers of sugar by white labor only,
and this in the very first year of the new
order of things, and the Kanaka is still plentiful.
Probably the rest of the planters would have
registered also as white-labor men, but having on
hand indentured niggers whose contracts haven’t
exp red, they can’t do so yet. The lie about the
destruction of the pearl-shelling industry will
burst up in exactly the same fashion. The two
lies were brothers.
The Ithaca (Brisbane) tragedy promises to
prove a repetition of the Gatton horu r. Just
before dusk a 14-year-old girl was sent to the
grocer’s, along an open road, some 700yds. a vay ;
was seen leaving the grocer’s with her parcel, and
within 18 minutes her brutally-assaulted body was
found beside the road. The bushes around and
the dress of the poor child showed that she fought
for her life with desperation. The groceries and
the assailant disappeared, leaving no trace behind.
The Q. detectives are running impossible theories
to nothingness and leaving huge footprints over
the landscape.
Four U.S. officers have sworn before the
Commission appointed to inquire into American
atrocities in the Philippines that Gen. Jacob
Smith ordered the large and thickly-peopled island
of Samar to be converted into “ a howling wilder-
ness,” and no quarter to be given to anybody over
10. It was truly a bitter day for the Filipinos
when the disinterested Yankee ally came to
deliver them from the comparatively gentle and
altogether sleepy rule of Spain. Even allowing for
the fact that no nation can be held wholly respon-
sible for the doings of an officer with a name like
Jacob Smith (or Jacob anything), the Americans
are putting up a pretty horrible record. The U.S.
is the only allegedly civilised land where men are
still burnt alive in public. Also it is the only one,
except Russia, where torture is known to have
been revived in quite recent times as a means of
extorting confession from an untried prisoner.
And now it has evolved Jacob Smith.
Agent-General Andrew Clarke was not in
his grave when the Victorian Cabinet met and in
hot haste voted Works Minister M'Culloeh (who
is burning for a title) a trip to London, at the
country’s expense, to “re-organise” the office of
Agent-General. This brilliant idea originated in
the Age office (David Syme being M'Culloch’s
close pal). The Argus next morning startled
itself and its readers by denouncing the thing as a
deliberate job. It is not often the Argus speaks
out so plainly, and politicians who trade upon this
fact got a serious twist. M'Culloch’s will be the
fourth trip, paid for by the State Treasury, which
has been made by friends of various Victorian
Ministries to “ re-organise ” the Agent-General’s
office.
Pimples and Skin Diseases
Are more than disfigurements of the skin ; they
are a handicap to the
young man, alike in
love and business. The
pimpled face looks dis-
sipated, and both mer-
c.iant and maiden look
at the unfortunate
fellow whose face is his
misfortune. An almost
certain cure for pimples
and other disfiguring
eruptions is found in
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. They purify the
blood, cleanse the skin,
and build up the body
with sound, wholesome
flesh. Mr. A. Murray,
Albert Park, Vic., tells
us:—“I have suffered
for the last year or
more from sluggish liver
and indigestion, for
which I have tried many
remedies, without ob-
taining any relief there-
from. The complaints
were most troublesome
and obstinate, and it
seemed as if I had to
take it as the inevitable,
until I tried Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills, which
I did about three months
ago. After using two bottles, I feel quite well
again. I have also found them A1 for purifying
the blood. I have suffered from pimply eruptions;
but since using these pills the pimples have all
disappeared. They are a good medicine, and
seem to benefit one in many ways, and I can
conscientiously give them a good word wherever
I go.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a
perfect blood purifier, and a positive cure for
biliousness, indigestion, constipation, headaches,
sallow complexion, liver and kidney troubles,
piles, pimples, boils and blotches, and for
female ailments. Sold by chemists and store-
keepers, Is. l|d per bottle, or six bottles 6s. 6d.
Packed in amber bottles, and the full name blown
thereon.


Highest Class Pastrycooks
&S& & 9 9
$ 9
3 3
$ 9
3 3
9 9
3 # 3 93>9 3 3
m n.s.w.
fresh jm $ Tee Co. Eta.
SYDNEY.
W grade materials are un-
known in our business. - -
Everything of the very best.
We have the largest and best
appointed Bakehouse in the State, and
we invite inspection of our methods
of manufacture. Catalogue post free
®n application.
L
Secretaries of Sports Clubs .
" We are OPENING-UP SHIPMENTS of all
The Latest Sporting Goods
Lacrosse, Golf, Tennis, Football, Gymnasium Equipment, Boxing Gloves,
Punching Balls, Fencing Foils, Croquet Sets, Sweaters and Hose.
Massey-Harris Depot: - 357 George Street 9 Sydney •
Branches — Westralian Depots —
Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Wellington. Perth and Kalgoorlie.
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OP INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER and
A PEN CARBON BOOK
makes a complete outfit with
which any
MAN,
WOMAN OR
CHILD
can write a letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy without
leaving the slightest sign of copy-
ing on the original.
SVj.
s/V.
It keeps a duplicate of bills you send out, of orders, receipts, bank checks. It leaves no vague
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original.
From its testimony there can be no appeal. It will save any house or family much money by its
indisputable record.
There is no man or woman, professional or not, who would not at some time or other find
THE PEN CARSON LETTER BOOK
A True and Valued Friend.
For fullest particulars, price, etc., write to the sole
Agents for Australasia : E. RICH & CO. LTD., sydnev brisbane
Eh J
AUSTRALIAN CAS LICHTCOMPANY
ISSUE OF £300,000 £4 PER CENT. DEBENTURES.
HE DIRECTORS of the Australian Gas-Light Company are prepared to receive Tenders for the above Deben-
tures, to be issued for the purpose of providing funds to meet debentures to a similar amount maturing in
idon on the 30th June next.
The Debentures will be issued in sums of £lOO, or any sum being a multiple of £lOO, bearing interest pay*
able half-yearly at £4 per cent, per annum, and redeemable on the first day of July, 1922.
Tenders must be delivered at the Company’s Head Office, Sydney, not later than noon on MONDAY, the
sth May next.
Particulars and conditions, together with form of Tender, may be ebtained on application to the under-
signed, and no tender will be accepted unless on such form.
Payments will be required as follows £5 per cent, of the amount tendered for on application, and the
balance on the 27th day of June, 1902.
By order of the Board,
fi. J. LUKKY, Secretary.
Company’s Head Office :
163 Kent-street, Sydney,
14th April, 1902.
During the past Easter, the Hotel Australia
was filled to overflowing with visitors.*
The immense Dunlop Rubber Mills at Montague,
Melbourne, the fitting up of which cost close upon
* 25,000, are now turning out something like 400 Dunlop
covers and tubes per day, besides large quantities of
Solid Rubber Vehicle Tyres, etc. This enterprising and
go-ahead company is now prepared to make and quote
for all classes of rubber goods. As only the latest and
most up-to-date machinery and plant have been erected
in the Dunlop Mills, the company is now in a position to
cater for the rubber goods trade of Australia on terms
advantageous to all users of manufactured rubber goods.*
Who can doubt that “The Breaker’s” mad
freak was largely owing to the wrong brand upon the
bottle ? When a man of reckless character has his pas-
sions inflamed by inferior fire-water, and is away from all
restraint, his actions are not likely to be a credit to
humanity. Had somewise person prevailed upon poor
Harry Morant to drink nothing butD.C.L., that benifi-
eent brand would have done more than keep him in sober
fettle for either fighting or thinking. It would have
filled him with the milk of human kindness. D.C.L., the
Whisky of the Wise.*
N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency Co. reports
for week ended April 12, that sheepskins have further
strengthened. At Friday’s sales a very animated inquiry
prevailed, the rise being most perceptible in crossbred
sections. If the fellmongers could get a good downpour
of rain the prices would go still higher. Hide supplies
are of moderate dimensions only, notwithstanding which
the market is inclined to weaken, with the exception of
choice medium and heavy weights, for which long figures
were forthcoming. Tallow slid down in London, but the
local market was not seriously affected, choice lines
realising last week’s prices, though lower qualities slipped
down by ss. per ton. Further slump expected. Nothing
was done in marsupial skins, the usual fortnightly sale
falling yesterday (Wednesday).*
Anyone desiring to break up the deadly
monotony of the daily job should patronise what the
Union S.S. Co. of Maoriland calls the cheapest and best
excursion ever offered to Australians. It will be inaugu-
rated in June, July and August, and will last nine weeks.
During that time the lucky excursionists will travel
16,000 miles, visit the island paradise of Oceana, eat
cocoanuts at Hawaii, stick salmon in the rivers of British
Columbia, travel on the most interesting railway in the
world, to wit, the 0.P.R., and climb the Rocky Mountains
of Canada. As the trans-Siberian road is not yet com-
pleted the C.P.R. is still the longest in the world, and the
whole cost of the trip, exclusive, of course, of more than
three cocktails each 12 hours, will be less than £1 per
day.*
“ sharpshooting
For Sport and War ”
mm
By W. W. GREENER.
Hits the Mark!
1/- NETT.
If you wish to know how to guard the
Empire—if you are one of those who will
rally round the old flag—read this book.
It teaches all about Rifles and Rifle
Shooting, how to aim and make allowance,
&c., and it contains chapters on Ranges
and Rifle Clubs, with a history of the part
played by the Armed Civilian in the past.
The Best Shilling’s Worth ever Published!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations for 1/- nett.
Of all Booksellers, orC.W. Buckland, Agent
for W. W. Greener, 317 Collins St., MELB.
OSS.h9
Be?
oS
a,S'S!2
fYB
SEoS
rs w a
2®
>Z ~tS~
|i?|i
Sh 2 b ?=
fS*B|
I 0-OOQS
PS?*&
taflrs-f
b<S* O 00®
fc*® ®
? ~m
g-Sr^Kj
HQ
I I I II 111! |
1.U.-
T.i in m 1 1 lp:
3 Ell
ni
IX
nx
11 1 mi i
m
Soft, silky,
glossy, abun-
dant,. beauti-
ful, elegant,
splendid,
handsome
you can’t find
words to de-
scribe a mag-
nificent head
of hair. Is this
the kind of
hair you have?
Is your hair long enough to suit you ?
Does the color exactly please you ? In
a word, are you perfectly satisfied with
your hair ? If not, give it a good hair-
food. Give it
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
’Twill make you have long, rich, abun-
dant hair, and it will stop falling of the
hair, too. Ayer’s Hair Vigor always
restores color. You can depend upon
it every time. It brings back all the
rich, dark color you had when you
were young. If you are 30, there is
no need of looking as if you were 50
]ust because your hair is gray.
And you will like our Hair Vigor,
also, as a hair dressing; while it forms
a valuable addition to any toilet table
because of the elegant way in which it
is put up.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mais.,U. S. A.
By Special
m
Appointment
G. H. SMITH and SON
TROPICAL HELMET
•with special air-space,
in white drill, dkc. and
in all colors in felt.
10/6 and 12/6
Hat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers,
302 Ceorge-stt Sydney
Sombrero Soft Felt Hats,
All Shades and Sizes.
Soft Felt Hombergs.
In all Sizes and Colors.
Straw Hats. Stetson Hats.
Polo Caps, Military and Naval
Caps, Livery Hats, Clerical Silk
Hats, Etc., Made to Order
SOLID RUBBER VEHICLE TYRES
—FOR —
BROUGHAMS, LANDAUS, DOGCARTS
and all other Passenger Vehicles. . .
Bend for Artistic Catalogue and Price i-i«+. —^
*o* -
ctet W e # e
..,« « d "
ol 5
>4^
,»6 e '
tA'J'-
■TVfV-
e*
m
, ot>
’SV£<°?&> st _,«6' 0 '
* te ttoe flXi at^'- eeU
l ;S<te< ■'St 9
t^ e^o^¥> 0
«* '***•
»•*' „e
Ge^
JL
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus. Ltd.
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
And ftfc MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE, and OHRISTOHUROH (N.Z.).
Thb Australian Anti-War League is doing good
work by stimulating public discussion in regard to
the merits of the S’African war; but from N.S. W. .
aldermen the league could have expected nothing
less than the treatment which its petition has re-
ceived. The very moderate prayer of the petition,
addressed to the House of Commons, urges that —
Steps be taken to end at once the war, by announcing
to the combatants in the field and elsewhere the terms of
peace upon which hostilities may terminate.
8. And your petitioners respectfully urge that these
terms of peace should include :
(а) A complete amnesty for military offences com-
mitted during the war.
(б) A compensation (to be raised by a tax upon the
Transvaal gold output) for the farms which
have been burnt and the property which has
been destroyed on the ground of military
necessity during the war.
(c) A guarantee of immediate self-government to
the States formerly known as the Transvaal
Republic and the Orange Free State, in a form
to be devised and agreed upon at a conference
of Boer representatives and of British commis-
sioners appointed for the purpose.
The league asked that its petition be referred
to the ratepayers’ for signature if they pleased ;
and several municipalities agreed to do this. But
many aldermen were roused to fury, or a pretence
of fury ; and in some cases the petition was burnt,
while in others it was returned to the offices of the
league at 39 Hunter-street, Sydney, with a profu-
sion of contumelious epithets. What can you ex-
pect from the avo: .ge alderman but a contumelious
epithet, when an appeal is made to his reason ?
♦
Wellington (M.L.) Post on Seddon’s
recent blood-mad speech (which seems to have
been in anywise misrepresented by Sydney D.T.’s
cable-man): —
All this was uttered by a British Premier, the represen-
tative of the mana, the morality and the civilisation of
the British Empire, to the sons and grandsons of men
who were, however noble they may have been according
to their lights, savage warriors who literally devoured
their conquered enemies. The Boers against whom he
thus tried to excite the dormant war-passions of the
Maoris are at least white men of the same Teutonic stock
as ourselves. The spectacle, we have no hesitation in
saying it, was degrading to Maoriland and to the
British Empire.
Apropos of the alleged shooting by the
lately-executed Lieutenant Handcock of a Ger-
man missionary to prevent him giving informa-
tion. This is how the accused’s own friend and
advocate tells the story :
. ._. Then some Kaffirs came in and said that a German
missionary, who was in charge of Reuter’s mission, near
Devil’s Kloof, was on his way to Pietersburg to tell the
British about shooting the Boers. Directly we heard that
he was going to show us up Lieutenant Handcock got on
his horse and went after him.
That particular story breaks off there, but there
! was a dead preacher lying about soon after-
wards, though, the only actual witness to his
death being a nigger, whose testimony doesn’t
count for anything in S’Africa, no conviction fol-
lowed. But it is a picturesque item as it stands—
a slow missionary in front with a story to tell,
and a fast contingenter behind with a powerful
reason for suppressing that story. Why will
benighted churches send slow, dreamy, mooning
missionaries to places where the swiftest kind of a
pastor is wanted on an emergency ?
A recently-formed Wellington (M.L.) Anti-
war society in its first resolutions gets straight to
the point:
This society deplores the fact that so many teachers of
Christianity can so far forget their calling as to advocate
war and the destruction of their fellow-men. We despise
those politicians and others who are continually bragging j
about the war for their own glorification and selfish
interests. We consider money raised by public sub-
scription should be devoted to alleviating suffering by the
war, and not for praise and brag. We appeal to the
Press of Maoriland to tell the truth about the war, so as
not to keep the public in ignorance, which, with jingoism,
leads to destruction.


“ APENTA.” 3
The Best Natural Aperient Water.
A Specific
For The Certain Relief Of
HABITUAL and OBSTINATE CONSTIPATION and in
DISORDERS of the LIVER and BILIOUS ATTACKS.
mA
gsrasgg
SK®J
poj
3S&S
S«SJs?
a? 1 ./,
V-Vy
agsojo
: <o^
»o 2
poP
V£
«@5
-
££o(fc
*w
saw*
Wm
0.
f \fe
,Oooi3Do
KjKM
K
£g
€L
2
-1
S?SI
S«p
5/A.
K
3SS S
KIN
ssfopiSsgsjs
■
OD9
M
SPECIAL OFFER
IN AUSTRALASIA
TO THOSE WHO HAVE NOT
VET TEIED
KOKO.
A 4 6 Trial Bottle for 2/-
ANY person forwarding this COUPON with postal note for 2s. and postage (p stags for N.S.W. is Bd. and to
other Stales Is. 2d.) will receive immediately for trial, by Parcel Post, under cover, prepaid, one regula
12oz. Bottle of “ Kcko ” ■or the Hair, the price of which is 4s. 6d., provided it is ordered within 14 days from
the date of this offer. In no case will more than one bottle be sent for the use of the same person on this
Coupon, as we make the offer solely for trial, knowing it creates a demand when once used, and this large bottle
gives it a fair trial. We find it better to practically give away one bottle to make a customer than to spend larg<
amounts in advertising. D«“ Any person into whose hands this offer comes may make use of it.
Address all orders with COUPON to the
mm
m m
Koko-Maricopas Co., Ltd.,
AUSTRALASIAN DEPOT-
-12 DEAN’S PLACE, SYDNEY, N.S.W,
Orders may be sent with this Coupon after the expiration of
date, providing we are then issuing these trial bottle Coupons, and
if not the money will he returned.
THIS COUPON will be received at 12 DEAN'S
PLACE, SYDNEY, and 2s. only will be
required when postage is not necessary.
The eminent Hygienic Scientist, Dr. GOODFELLOW, Ph.D., F.R.M.S., in a recent lecture to Hygiene students,
said: “We have seen from previous work that many hair lotions contain lead and other injurious constituents, but
that ‘ Koko,’ the type we have taken as the subject of our examination to-night, is not only a valuable tonic dressing
for the Hair, but is perfectly free from, all deleterious constituents.
“ A perfect hair-dressing should fulfil, among others, the following essential conditions :—(1) It should be free
from all poisonous and deleterious substances. (2) Pleasant in odor or odorless. (3) It should not affect the natural
color of the hair. (4) It should give tone to the scalp and hair, assisting to restore the hair follicles to their normal
conditions, and promoting the natural nourishment of the hair roots. I can give no better example than * Koko/
which we have proved to fulfil these essentia! conditions.”
KOKO is sold by all Chemists and Stores at 1/-, 2/6 and 4/6 per bottle.
THE
‘PLUM’
PiO
THE
* PLUM’
/^(ENTIjEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7a 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
{Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 218.
Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful Case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
83F* Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st.,
Sydney.
ENO’S
COOLING, ‘FRUIT
HEALTH GIVING,
REFRESHING,
SALT.’
AND INVIGORATING.
A Policy for the Commonwealth
PRICE, 6d.; Posted, Bd.
m
THIS NEW
fashionable
Mount,
TWO TIPS WITH
OiPREYS,
,In black, white,
cream, or black
tipped with white.
&
\ v
3/-
the Bunch
Post Free.
special offer to
advertise our
OSTRICH TIPS.
Write To-day. Send Postal Notes. Mention this paper.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
w Omer Bourke & Swanston Sts.. Melbourne.
WANTED
JF YOU ARE SUFFERING from any of the following
ailments, viz., Rheumatism, Sciatica, Vital Weak-
ness, Liver Complaint, Dyspepsia, Lamb Back or
Debility, Kidney Disease or any Organic Derange-
ments, we want you to wear one of our ELECTRIC
BELTS, and when CURED to let other sufferers know
that our ELECTRIC BELTS will permanently CURE
when all other Remedies have FAILED. We prefer those
cases who have failed to obtain relief elsewhere. Send
us a description of your case, and size around the waist
next to skin. Address —
ARTHUR HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
44 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
London Address : 105 Regent Street, W.
FREE TO THE
RUPTURED.
Dr. W. S. Rice, the well-known New York Hernia
Specialist, sends a trial of his famous method FREE
TO ALL. Anyone can now cure themselves at
home without pain, danger, operation, or an hour’s
loss of TIME FROM WORK.
At the earnest request of British patrons, Dr. Rice
has opened Branch Offices at 9d Stonecutter St.,
London, E.C., and to the thousands upon thousands
of ruptured peoi le who are torturing themselves
with bad trusses, and are in momentary danger of
death from strangulation, will send free to all a
trial of his famous method that has saved so many
lives and made so many men, women, and children
well and strong and permanently cured of bad Rup-
tures, Do not be backward about writing for the
FREE TRIAL. It will cost you nothing, and will
enable you to see how easily you can cure yourself
in a short time without losing an hour irom work.
Dr. Rice is determined that every suffering man or
woman shall know the wonderful truth that Rupture
can be cured, and he therefore generously sends,
prepaid by post, his method absolutely free, and you
can make a trial of it. Remember that it is the
same method that Mr. Thomas Blay (whose picture
is given below) used ; and who can deny the truth
when it is put before them in so clear a light ? It
must indeed, be welcome words to the afflicted.
WORDS OF PRAISE FROM Mr. BLAY.
No. 5, Ripley Terrace, Luddenden Foot,
W. S. Rice. April, 6,1901.
Dear Sir,—After using your treatment for three
months I find myself cured of my Rupture, at the
age of 55. I had been ruptured for ten years.
I shall advise all people afflicted with this com-
plaint to use your treatment, as I know from
experience that it will cure permanently. You must
have a wonderful knowledge of rupture to Atone
so perfectly without seeing the rupture.
I am in good health now, something I have not
enjoyed for ten years before. You can use this
letter in any way you choose, and I hope it will
guide others to a perfect cure.—Yours truly,
T. BLAY.
There is absolutely no question about the curative
ability of this combined and perfected method. It
has stood the test of time; it has been through the fire
of critical cases ; it has come out victorious in every
curable instance. It has saved the child to a life of
independence; it has given the youth his natural
endowment of health and strength to fight the battle
of life successfully; it has conquered the blight upon
old age and turned years of suffering into ending
days of joy and giadness. Whoever is Ruptured, oi
knows a person suffering with Rupture, should keep
in mind the fact that in eighty per cent, of all cases
there is a daily liability that before night they may
say good-bye to earthly things. Does not this fact
influence one to pause and consider whether they
are using their best efforts in the way a wise Creator
intended they should ? And if the forethought, the
research, and the painstaking effort of one who
invents and studies lor the relief of others is placed
in our hands, is it not our duty to read and listen
patiently, that we may take advantage of that which
contributes to our earthly benefit ?
JLllenburgs Foods.
The great success attending the use of the “Allenburys” Milk Foods is in a great measure
due to the two following important facts: —
(l) Their similarity in composition to human milk ; the constituents being in (2) The readiness with which they can oe digested and assimilated by
. the same relative proportions. the infant,both foods being as easy of assimilation as maternal milk.
Mixed with water according to the directions a humanized milk is provided. and much more so than ordinary modified or diluted cow’s milk.
The “ Allenburys ” Foods are especially valuable in hot climates. They are in the
form of powder and keep perfectly. !iiCS= Pamphlet on “ INFANT FEEDING ” (48 pages) free,
from 495, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Allen & Hanburys, Ltd., fPlougb (Bourt, Jsombard St, Jbondon.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to three months.
MILK FOOD No. 2. $
From three to six months.
MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From six months and upwards.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Collins-st. was staggered the other day to see
Lieut. Lilley back from the war and a long period
of illness, looking quite the Count D’Orsay he
used to be when the doors of Janus were closed
and the military man was as necessary a drawing-
room ornament as a standard lamp or Arnold’s
‘ Light of Asia. ’ Lilley, be it remembered, was
nursed back to life and interest by Countesses
and such, who sent out crested missives as to his
slow recovery to the authorities here. Report
stated that his Family Herald features, dazzling
dark eyes, and his supercilious air of magnificence
had been cruelly slaughtered by Boer bullets ; but
t other day Collins-st. saw all his cruel beauty
restored, and only an interesting limp as a support
to the rumors of his battle-wounds. Probably no
contingenter has had such good luck as Lilley,
who was punctured and battered in the early
stages of the war, and so had many months of
nursing at the illustrious hands of England’s best-
blooded, sticking-plaster Angels. The wounded
don’t fare so well now ; they’ve to put up with what
tender sympathy the bob-a-day hospital orderly
can spare.
“The Rev. Father Robinson is a second Better-
Not Wally, whose depths of diplomacy no man
can sound. The cleric has'a new church building,
out Camberwell way. Now, an enterprise of this
kind is a big event in the life of a Celibate One,
and it is alleged that the rev. pastor has developed
serious nerve trouble over its slow and costly erec-
tion. The opening ceremony is imminent, and
Amy Castles, with the consent of J. C. William-
son and the other trustees of her voice, offered to
sing at the affair. That was a big offer. But
Rev. G. Robinson closed his eyes to the tempta-
tion, murmuring softly in Williamson’s ear-
better not.’ So that Camberwell has lost a
Castles chant on the cheap, and the cleric a
‘ corner ’in subscriptions. Also, Melbourne has
found a rival for Wally. But how will the
reverend casuists look at the action ? Won’t they
argue that the Rev. R. should have considered the
Church first and the Boom afterwards ?
“ A select and learned-looking few turned up to
the Library Association’s recent exhibition of old
books and literary curios. Few glanced at the
‘ Constitution Table ’ and the silver inkstand or
the literary efforts of the late Queen Victoria. But
there were Some striking exhibits—Fawkner’s
printing-press, an exceedingly primitive wooden
machine; autograph letters of G-. V. Brooke,
Mme. Celeste, Clias. Matthews, John Wesley and
Matthew Flinders. Also the last memoranda of
the dying Burke and Wills, found in the cache at
Cooper’s Creek ; these were written on scraps of
a pocket-book and were stained and worn —veri-
table human documents. Also there was a celes-
tial globe used by Capt. Cook, a casual glance at
which gave the impression that Cook had more
luck than science. But the whole show was musty
and ancient and smelt of century mould, and the
only thing to stay a visitor’s hasty rush for the
glad sunshine outside was a little lady poring over
a collection of engravings of Burne-Jones. She
wore a mass of red-brown hair and might have
just stepped from one of Jones’ pictures, and she
sat the whole afternoon, careless, oblivious,
drinking in whatever message the pages had to
tell her, happy and unconscious.
“ The death of Capt. Stanley Lowe, at the
residence of his dear old pink and white pictur-
esque father-in-law, Henry Cuthbert, was a blow
to all Ballarat. There have been many deaths
recently in the family of Rev. Stanley Lowe, and
this is one of the saddest. Two years ago, the
wife of the swarthy Captain died leaving one
small boy as a link. This child and his father
lived with the old gentleman at his fine Ballarat
estate, and they were a very happy trio, till a liver
complaint led to complications and the Captain’s
death on Saturday.
“ The chosen priests of Israel are having some
trouble, like big chief Booth, over the falling-away
of their worshippers. The other day two former
pillars of the Hebrew Church were married by a
Gentile parson, and though the marriage
feast was sound and sumptuous, it was significant
how many of the tribe wept. The groom himself
shed copious tears, swamping his speech and
utterance entirely. Then the groom’s father fol-
lowed suit, and succumbed to a gush of grief.
Then an elderly relative of the blushing bride
joined the weepers, and the bridal cake only saved
itself by reason of its costly altitude from being
washed out of sight. Everyone was all the more
astonished as it was made known that the pair’s
’version to Christianity was acquiesced in by the
family connections. Still, at the last wrench,
sorrow broke loose, and the parted religionists
‘let woman’s tear-drops stain their manly cheeks.’
“The lift-catastrophes this side of the Common-
wealth have not reached their end. The practice
obtains at several buildings in Melbourne, where
‘batching’ is the vogue among bread-winning
spinsters, of working the lift after the legitimate
rope-puller has quitted his post. This practice is
mainly pursued by the bold and brave where the
lift works easily and assures, to all appearance,
safety. But sometimes the infallible works fail of
their promise, and there is the doctor or the devil
to pay. Such an accident caused much trial and
tribulation to a ‘ third floor ’ detachment the other
night. A foolish virgin was off to the theatre
just before eight o’clock, and essayed to work the
lift down on her own. She was in full regalia,
and had to meet her friends outside the theatre.
The first pull of the rope worked the oracle, then
there was a full stop, and lo and behold ! all the
tugging and muscle-straining in the world availed
not. So Miss Independent sat and waited for
release. None came. Then she screamed. None
heard. Then she cried. None knew. So she sat
still and prayed. Heaven, or someone, heard,
and at the end of two hours rescue came.
“ About the domestic problem. There’s a
regular crusade afoot to battle with the servant
difficulty. Some talk of the perambulating dinner
as the solution, others of the itinerant house-
cleaner as' the coming household angel. She’ll
call on you and wash up at 8.30, then on me at
9.30, on Mrs. Jones up-street at 11.45, and so on,
at per hour. Airy persiflage with the baker or
vegetable Chow to be deducted from the fee.
Anyhow, Mary Jane is doomed. Matrons meet
in solemn conclave and discuss the impossibility
of getting the housework done with any satisfac-
tion. Whole afternoons are passed in important
lectures and putting of motions and amendments.
Meanwhile Chaos reigns in the kitchen, and the
old man sits wearily down to cold mutton at 6.30
p.m. Wouldn’t it be a knock-out to everybody if
the missus, instead of talking, went into the
kitchen herself and wrestled with the beef ?
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI


jh
[■jeijr'ttftf* Oliver
A fin de s»ecj«
Iss Vjjl i p| ) ;||,|>w
C\\no<\o*l< or
!'—
lijere> tip \ \
deywe,
ItfgJ' -jo^d
'll [s
mk fesW?
® . y lc, e —one of .
of Wi»i2 ol<l €*jo«a^W
be I)ck
fro,T Wo runs
Detilon
j. DidrJt' T~rr jc’ doosbow'’
K«w» -
A due I id rfe
Verjuj j>etititjije
X'qaJe'tcTrj
Sires .
|jenl^up
°\
Jt* rs
Oa-f let'
jh
'(^(rostyl
% M
l|je Detective 'faJtes 7'^
j>f|Soq&K yt"
Ay.oli
JiUie
Jf-Cj<o. |eoj>oU
' Tljc Si*t»7c*"*■’ — Po*i y°»j
Yt*)§A)btY li*He t
“5« s^r : -" vi)*r! sv*Ji •
) r
Yf Too) (\nijijrj
'! £Ve»>
“THE WRONG MR. WRIGHT.”
BROADHURST’S LATEST AND DROLLEST COMEDY, NOW RAGING AT MELBOURNE BIJOU. “FUNNIER THAN 'WHAT HAPPENED TO JONES'” (Trade Mark)


Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N.S. Wales: Sayers,
Allport and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
The distinct departure caused by the new
Electro-Medical treatment practised by the Specialists of
the Freeman and Wallace Electro-Medical and Surgical
Institute, Elizabeth and Bathurst-streets, Sydney, cannot
be more fully proved than is shewn in the voluntary
testimony and practical endorsement of it by many of
Sydney’s influential personages. The treatment has been
adopted and gladly endorsed by leading professional
athletes in all grades of physical competition. In many
instances they attest their success has been due chiefly
to this grand restorative treatment which has made them
physically and mentally perfect.*
Missing Friends.
JOHN HEARNSNIP, late of Chorley
Road Farm, Whittle -le - Woods, near
Chorley, Lancashire, left Sydney for Westralia
12 years ago. Father anxious to hear from you.
mO Mrs. CHARLOTTE SOPHIA BLYTHEN or BUCHANAN
(nee LLOYD, and the wife of JOHN BLYTHEN, late
of Bedford, England), who resided at Burlington-street,
off West-street, Sydney, N.S.W., and left there some
16 years ago. If alive, will she, for her advantage, or if
dead, will any person having knowledge, communicate
with
W. IVANHOE THOMAS, Solicitor,
33 Chancery Lane, London, England
“ EQUAL OPPORTUNITY.”
Should be read by social reformers. COLE’S, and
leading booksellers.
PRICE, Is.; CLOTH, 28.
amusements.
HEA T R E ROYAL, SYD NE 7.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
.Every Evening at 8. Wednesday Afternoons at 2_
THE WALDORF SEASON,
Commencing SATURDAY, APRIL 19, 1902.
MISS JANET WALDORF,
the Famous Young American Actress, supported by
Mr. J. O. Williamson’s NEW ENGLISH DRAMATIC CO ,
augmented by Artists selected from the
WILSON BARRETT and WALDORF DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Lessee Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
EYERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT’S
Great Spectacular Marine Novelty,
THE SPAN OF LIFE.
POPULAR PRICES—3s„ 2s„ Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
TO WN HALL, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
THE HOMECOMING of AMY CASTLES
FOUR GRAND CONCERTS.
THURSDAY, SATURDAY, MONDAY,
APRIL 17, APRIL 19. APRIL 21.
And Special Matinee, Tuesday, April 22.
Miss Castles will be assisted by Miss Una Bourne,
pianist, Miss Maud Dalrymple, contralto, Miss Nora
M‘Kay, violinist, Herr Benno Scherek, accompanist, and
Special Engagement of Signor Carlo Dani, the famous
tenor. Box Plan Paling’s. Prices, 65., 45., 2s.
CASTLES’ NEW ZEALAND TOUR
Under the Direction of Mr. J. O. Williamson.
DUNEDIN,
CHRISTCHURCH
WELLINGTON ..
AUCKLAND ..
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30.
FRIDAY, MAY 2.
MON, & WED., MAY 5 and 7.
MON, & WED., MAY 12 and 14.
HAROLD ASHTON, Representative.
FITZGERALD BROS.’
NEW CIRCUS AND MENAGERIE.
THE GREATEST AMUSEMENT ENTERPRISE
TRAVELLING AUSTRALASIA.
Location— OLD BENEVOLENT SOCIETY’S GROUNDS,
Opp. REDFERN RAILWAY STATION.
PATRONISED BY HIGHLY DELIGHTED and
ENTHUSIASTIC ASSEMBLAGES at EVERY PER
FORMANCE.
The New Change of Programme a DISTINCT SUCCESS.
“HADJI TABA,” “ANZELETO.”
THE GREAT STEEPLECHASE,
and other recent attractions cheered nightly by enthu-
siastic THOUSANDS.
DAY SHOWS—Saturdays and Wednesdays.
PRICES—4s., 35., 25., and ONE SHILLING. Children
half-price to all parts except the Pit.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, George-street.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards
MATINEES, EVERY WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY.
LAST NIGHTS of THE MARVELLOUS CRAGGS.
Continued Success of Madame LYDIA YEAMANS-TITUS,
THE FAMOUS JACKSON FAMILY,
PROF. CHAS. WRIGLEY. PROF. FRED. DAVYS
GEO. B. ALEXANDER. THE LENTONS TRIO
DAN CONROY. FRED. BLUETT.
WESTON & YOST. CASSELLI SISTERS.
SAM HOLDSWORTH. JAMES OPIE.
Prices—2/6, 2/-, 1/6, 1/-, and 6d. Early Doors 6d. Extra.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
RICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.m.
First Appearance of
BARNEY FAGAN & BYRON HENRIETTA
MADAME LOTTY, THE PERMANS, LENTONS, j
Complete and Enthusiastic Success of the Great
American Novelty,
NET BALE.
Prices—2s. 6d., 25., Is., and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
1
■
«F"'
The GANZ
Electric Apparatus
are built right.
Let us give you some
evidence of their
superiority.
Canz Dlreot Current Alr-Propener. SOLE AGENTB :
The flustral Qtis Engineering |)o., [td., Sooth (Ijelb.
A Wonderful Inven
turn. Grand Piano
Idee Tone.
The (ICU HHP-ZiTHEII,
OR A Harp that Anyone can
n- „ n Uo mm Play. Louder thanthe
rld.llU~nd.rpi Large Italian Harp.
M :
Or its tones can be modulated to the soft, sweet tones of the German Zither.
In addition to its wonderful tone quality, the Harp-Zither has a great many
advantages over all other Zithers. It is the only Zither which may be played
while holding vertically like the Harp, or it may be laid upon a table, as is
necessary with the ordinary Zither.
Observe the diagonally crossed strings, almost the same as in a piano, the
melody strings passing over the chord strings. By means of this improvement
in construction the similarity in tone and volume of the piano is produced.
Beautiful in Design, Grand, Resonant Tone, Perfection in Every Point,
and it is the easiest to learn to play of any musical instrument in existence.
A child can play it almost at sight. The reason anyone can play this instru-
ment on first trial, even though the person may know absolutely nothing
about music, or may not have an ear for music, is this : Each string is num-
bered, as is each note in the music, so all one has to do to render the most
difficult selections is to strike the strings as indicated by the numbers ; hence
we guarantee that anyone able to read figures can learn to play.
The Harp-Zither is built on the lines of the large harp which sells at
£2O and upwards, and to the astonishment of all the Harp-Zither has the
, louder tone of the two ; in fact, its tone is similar to that of a piano.
! pr- SATISFACTION GUARANTEED “ad
As a parlor ornament, the instrument, with its classical outlines, is
unique. For the serenade, the musicale, or any class of entertainment, the
Harp-Zither excels all other instruments of its class. Its Deep, sympathetic
Tones Penetrate even those Insensible to the Charms of Music.
Style 1. —Ebonised, piano finish, decorated, twenty-three strings, three
chords, two picks, key, case, full instructions, and a lot of figure music,
I pniAe ar7 i Carriage paid to any part of Australasia. Size of Style 1
i Harp-Zither is 10 inches wide by 18 inches long. Payment
should be made by Post Office money-order, and orders for goods addressed to •
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY, 229-231 Collins St., Melbourns.
Amusements.
DMOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees .. .. Messrs. Williamson, Lee & Rial.
UNDER THE DIRECTION of EDWIN GEAOH.
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY
and his
LONDON COMEDY COMPANY in
(THE WRONG MR. WRIGHT.
Prices, People and Play, Popular, 35., 2s. Is.
A. COWAN, Acting Manager.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
1 Lessee Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hendv. Treas., Julius Grant.
EVERY EVENING.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, headed by Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN
in a New and Original Drama,
GREED FOR GOLD.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
L| ER IVSAJL- STY’S THEATRE, MELBOU RNE.
1 * Sole Lessee and Manager : Mr. J. C. Williamson.
'us. Manager, George Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
FRIDAY, APRIL 18th, LAST NIGHT of
THE RUNAWAY GIRL,
SATURDAY, APRIL 19, for Nine Nights Onlv, Cellier’s
Evergreen Opera, DOROTHY, with a Cast of
exceptional interest.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MIELBOURrtE.
* Under the Direction of .. Mr. Robt. Brough.
Representative Mr. Allan Hamilton.
FAREWELL to Melb. of MR. and MRS. BROUGH,
Prior to their retirement from the Australasian stage.
THURSDAY and FRIDAY, APRIL 17 and 18,
THE TYRANNY OF TEARS.
SATURDAY, APRIL 19, Revival for positively Six Nights
only of the most Successful Farcical Comedy ever pro-
duced in Australia by Mr. Brough, DR. BILL.
Prices, 55., 3s. & Is. Early doors to Stalls and Amphitheatre
Is. extra. Box Plan at Allan's* Menzies’ and The Grand.
Business Announcements.
khj
NESS CURED
Deafness is incurable till the
cause is removed. Therefore Ear
Drums and other artificial aids
never cure. Isobody need he
deaf where the ELECTRKXXN is obtainable. Write to-day
mention ng this paper, an I we will send valuable informa-
tion FREE. Address—
L. R Vernon Coy.. 60 64 Hunter-st . Fvdney
A
LCOHOL9C EXCESS.
DRINK AND DRUG HABITS CURED at
Patient’s own home. Can be g:iven secretly.
Testimonials from prominent people. Write for pamphlet
or call on
THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
I’ll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Posted (under cover)
to any part o£ Austra.
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result
CRAIG & AITKEN, N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House, 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
L ADIESZ^
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address —L.P.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Tvmrfm
hj
A Wonderful power is placed at your
disposal in Hypnotism— the power to control
others— to relieve disease —to make friends
—to make money—and gTatify your
ambition. You may become a commanding
master of humanity. In fact, there is so much
that ts wonderful to tell you about it that I bavo
written a book for that purpose. It has 31
illustrations.
An>one can be a Hypnotist It Is merely a matter of
knowing bow All possess the power—both men and women.
Some p-rsonsexercisea light hypnotic influence unconsciously
No doubt you have met such people. They are the kind who
succeed In the world with no apparent effort.
By a knowledge of Hypnotism, bad habits, nervous diseases,
bad dispositions, sleeplessness, and other afflictions may be
cured —often in a single treatment Backward or ungovernable
children show marvellous improvement under hypnotic
treatment at the hands of their parents or others.
I have taught thousands of hypnotists in America. Hun-
dreda o* delighted students in Australia already 1 reach
them through my book The system is very simple- There
is an reason why you should not become as good a Hypoo*
tist as I am. Satisfaction guaranteed.
Send address in full, together with three stamps. You
will then receive “The Key to Hypnotism," posted ut
1 plajn cover. Absolutely Free.
PROFESSOR Q. £• BARRINGTON,
America’* Greatest HypnetUt.
144 TO I*7 COLLIN* ST.. USLS.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. Price 4/6 and 11/.
Thousands of Testimonials.
OF ALL CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
WHOLKSAUt AGENTS:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. NICHOLL, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
25 HIGH STREET, BELFAST, IRELAND.
Franz Josef
APERIENT WATER
Is the ONLY PALATABLE NATURAL
APERIENT WATER.
Sole Agents ßocke, Tompsitt &Co., Melbourne.
V
ms
I do not ask yon to spend
money to teat whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’
Dance, etc. All I ask of you
is to SEND for a FREE
Bottle and to try it I abide
by the result. A safe remedy-
approved by the Medical
Profession.
H. G. ROOT, 28,Endslelgh
Gardens, London. N.W.
balsam of horehound.
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
OLD’S BALSAM
ARNOLD’S BALSAM
BALSAM
For Coughs and Colda
Every Dose Effective.
Will Cure when Others FaiL
For Pain in the Side.
Best for Influenza.
In Bronchitis and Loss of Voice.
Whooping Cough and Croup.
For Children, Safe and Sore
At Poverty Point.
Sydney’s contraltos and sopranos simply run rings
round the average Melb. product in the mere matter
of voice, but why should they enunciate so detestably ?
At the Castles’ concerts, handsome Maud Dalrymple dis-
played a voice far and away above anything in the con-
tralto range to be heard on ordinary occasions in the city
of threadbare musical brag ; but it is hard to be convul-
sively enthusiastic over a lady who sings “ Owenly for
theyee, is maie heart’s puewer devyotion.” Most of the
other Sydneyites, who have sprung up in recent years as
concert artists, have cultivated the word-mouthing fault
to an irritating degree, and some of those who have gone
away to study will have to spend toilsome years in learn-
ing to sing their own language properly before they essay
the French and Italian lingoes for opera purposes.
The “ original discoverers” of cantatrice Castles
are legion. At her reception shivoo several feminine
social hangers-on, andone or two male persons who should
have known better, informed everybody privately that
the distinction belonged to them, after which one was
astonished to hear from various sources that the real
discoverer was Rev. Robinson, Age critic Nesbitt, Argus
man Johnny Sandes, Manager Williamson, and energetic
Mrs. Doubleday (who has been totally eclipsed in the new
boom). A visit to Bendigo will convince anyone that
everybody in that pushful community had been the
means of first proclaiming that the eighth wonder of the
world had been found. That is, everyone except the 30
or 40 short-pinnied young ladies who have since been
acclaimed in Bendigo as superior to the lucky Amy.
Whatever may yet be wanting in the Castles
voice, its executive facility clearly shows that trainer
Bouhy is “ no slouch ” at his trade, and presumably there
will be a rush of Australiennes to that skilled Frenchman.
When Miss Castles forsook Marchesi, the denizens of this
out-of-the-way country imagined that she had wilfully
thrust herself out of the pale and given her voice into the
hands of a mere adventurer ; but Bouhy has been steadily
getting to the front for some years now, and has pupils
galore somewhere near the top in Parisian singing-circles.
His name is even accepted as a guarantee for artists in
conservative London. Also, nearly all singers have found
it profitable to change their tutors after a time—Ada
Crossley, a case in point. The Santleys and Marchesis,
never likely to go breadless for want of pupils, develope
“ that tired feeling ” badly—but one advantage is that
our vocalistic export trade, is prevented from extending
by the rapacity of those top-notchers for the elusive
guinea.
At Amy Castles’ first Melbourne concert the female
relations of another tremendous soprano made themselves
conspicuous by laughing in derision at the buxom Ben-
digonian, and uttering loud, contemptuous criticisms of
her voice and manner.
Interesting to note how one Melb. critic who first
hailed Amy Castles as a singer of the vocally intense
variety, now assures her that she is not a “dramatic
soprano ” at all. Age writer Nesbitt says the quality of
her voice has altered ; “ three years ago she was a genuine
dramatic soprano,” but it is difficult now “ to understand
that at any time she could have been thus rightly desig-
nated.” It is well-known to all experienced singing
teachers that i t is impossible to tell whether a 17-year-old
girl’s voice has the true dramatic ring. Most girls
merging into womanhood, presupposing of course that
they have some vestige of a voice to judge from, possess
a peculiar richness of voice. Amy’s younger sister, Dolly,
now settled down to study with the doyen of Melb. i
voice-trainers, William Parkinson, once a pet English !
tenor, is a case in point. But the critic who sets him-
self to determine in a moment what a competent voice-
trainer sometimes takes months to find out, hasn’t time
to reckon with physiological points like that.
Yet another young person with a voice for for-
tune has just been rooted out by a well-advertised
Melb. musical competition-judge up Stawell way. The
guileful prof, pronounces it “a beautiful, full, round
contralto,” in which, with careful training, Miss Sweet-
seventeen will have a fortune. After which, it is to be
presumed that the young person will in gratitude
promptly confide her great gift to the prof, aforesaid for
training purposes. The A.N.A. and other musical com-
petitions are getting to be a regular abomination before
all decent musicians just because of these soulful deliver-
ances. At a painful suburban series recently, two over-
strained sopranos, an alleged contralto with a thick burr
over all the notes at the lower end of a voice that was
originally fair mezzo-soprano, and a churchy tenor who
sang as though he had no roof to his mouth, were all in-
formed that they had voices which nothing in this world
could stop from climbing the giddy heights of Fame, so
long as they were properly handled. Two of the short-
frocked young ladies have since gone into training,
and the churchy tenor is saving up a proportion
of his clerkling’s wages to follow suit. Nearly every
girl in undisguised stockings one sees in Collins-st.
nowadays is a budding cantatrice, and some of them have
budded to such an extent that their short frocks display
legs which have seen 26 or 27 years service and are crying
out for adequate covering. And, after all, many are
called but few' are chosen.
De Witt Talmage, America’s showman, lecturer and
comic preacher, who visited Australia some years ago, is
dead at the age of 71. The cablegram speaks of him as a
“ divine,” but he was as unlike anything of the kind as
could be imagined. Nobody could listen to Talmage and
imagine for a moment that he believed in the dreamy,
unworldly, unpractical gospel of the New Testament!
He talked of Heaven fiercely through his nose as if it was
an “ho-tel,” and he talked of Hell savagely through his
nose as if it was another ho-tel where the liquor was
worse than at the previous one. There was no reverence
about Talmage. He was a bagman, pure and simple,
carrying samples of creed in his “ grip.” His Deity was
simply the boss of the firm, shoving business along hard
in the big warehouse where the bulk stock of creed was
stored. Talmage was a dry, hot, feverish, eloquent
hustler; a frightful elocutionist; a humorist of
a kind, with an irrepressible tendency to
wink confidentially at the Twelve Apostles, and
an utter inability to disguise his opinion that, if he had
been an apostle, he would have made things fly along a
good deal faster, or have burst up Galilee in the attempt.
The foolishness of these 12 unpractical pedestrians in not
floating the business into a good sound syndicate at the
start, and letting Pilate have some preference shares so
as to keep him solid, and building a railway, so that the
Gospel could be rushed to Ephesus or Thessalonica at 35
miles an hour, always appeared to weigh on Talmage. It
was probably the thought of that wasted opportunity
which killed him in the end.
Labor-member Watson, who brought about
the abolition of the tea duty, whereby the Federal
Government loses £125,000 a year and the State
Governments £375,000 a year, says airily that if
Tasmania is in special difficulties through his
action, the Federal Parliament can vote it £20,000
a year. The party to which Watson belongs
voted old age pensions (about £300,000 a year) in
Victoria, and old age pensions and liberal increases
of wages (about £600,000 or £700,000 a year) in
N.S.W. without providing a copper to pay the
votes. And it still believes in off-handedly voting
the money. Why not vote Tasmania the Southern
Cross and a comet or two as well ?
The Sydney hotel, club, restaurant and
caterers’ employees propose to speak a few words
in the ear of N.S.W. Arbitration Court when
that long-expected affair really begins its labors.
Cases of 255. for 105 hours work per week are
mentioned and 100 hours a week is said to be
quite a common event. And 100 hours a week in
an atmosphere of grease, scraps and washing-up is
a flabby, unwholesome business which breeds
small, pale, fattish men with flat feet and no
stamina.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. Ib drhas away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Another member of the Bushveldt
Buccaneers in explanation:
What caused the wholesale shooting of the Boers?
Drink, nothing else. The quantity of drink most of the
officers consumed was simply marvellous. Night after
night they had carouses. In the morning they would
hold a mock court-martial over the man who succumbed
first on the previous night, and he would have to
“shout” a case of whisky or champagne, as the case
ought be. Many of the officers were always more or less
mad with drink.
The Greatest Thief in the World.
No, it is not the man who removes your goods
in the night, nor the plausible diamond-studded
gentleman who takes your hard-earned cash in
exchange for shares in some worthless mine.
Thieves they are, without doubt; but not the
greatest of thieves. There is a far subtler thief
than they, and, moreover, what he robs you of is
more valuable than your money. He was named
and rated many years ago by a celebrated poet
when he wrote “Procrastination is the thief of
Time”—procrastination, postponement, the put-
ting off of the doing of something which ought
to be done now; time, the intangible stuff of
which life is made up of. The man who is robbed
of his gold may possibly recover it; the man who
is robbed of his time has lost so much of his life
utterly and for ever.
Now, here is Mrs. Maria Jenkinson, of No. 7,
Seale-street, Sydney, N.S.W., a lady who has not
yet reached middle age, but whose health broke
down so long ago as June, 1886. A good many
things have happened since 1886, among them
the recovery of Mrs. Jenkinson’s health in 1891;
but there is no good and sufficient reason why
that desirable event should not have taken place
five years earlier. The means which restored
Mrs. Jenkinson to health were as easily obtainable
in 1886 as in 1891, or as they are now. Perhaps
Erocrastination has something to answer for here.
iet us listen to what Mrs. Jenkinson herself has
to say on the matter : “ Until June, 1886, I was
blessed with sound health; I could eat, sleep,
and work well. Then came a change; I grew
listless, despondent, and irritable. My sleep was
disturbed by dreams, and there was an ever-
present sensation of weight on my chest. My
appetite failed, and I became so emaciated and
weak I could scarce crawl about. A furred
tongue, biliousness, and severe headache had
become my normal condition. For five years did
I fight against my illness and was attended by
six doctors, who all agreed that I was suffering
from chronic dyspepsia, and were all alike in
failing to relieve me. After also trying various
advertised remedies with no better result, I was
induced to buy a bottle of Mother Seigel’s
Curative Syrup. The first bottle mitigated my
worst symptoms, and when I had taken the third
bottle I felt like my old self again. Eight bottles
of Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup did for me in
six months what six doctors failed to accomplish
in five years—restored to me health and strength.
For years past I have never on any account
been without Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup in
the house.”
It is never too late to do a good thing; but it is
better to do it first than last.


Discovered by Christopher Mudd, F.L.S., F.R.G.S., M.B.Ph.S., London, Botanist to the King of
England during His Majesty’s Indian Tour.
Cures this terrible itching complaint.
Not a grease. Does hot stain the linen.
Full directions each jar. Jars, 4/6 ; post, 4/10
Used in the Melbourne Homoeopathic
Hospital with success.
ANTHOS
FOR
THE
HAIR
Not a Grease, purely Botanical.
Written testimony from well-known medical men.
One bottle in daily use lasts about 4 months.
“Anthos” prevents Hair falling out, Dandruff,
and Irritation. Bottles, 2/6 ; posted, 3/3.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND
Melbourne : Foy & Gibson and all Chemists.
Svdnev: Pattinson & Co. (all branches).
' PARK SON,; Pitt Street
Depot : M. H. HORWITZ, 34 Pitt Street.
New Zealand : C. L. Best, Ponsonby, Auckland.
Adelaide: Harris & Kemp, Arcade.
Brisbane: Taylor &'Colledge Ltd.
Perth: Foy & Gibson.
Colonial Representative : Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
hjk
PRODUCE.
GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
act as selling* brokers only.
Co7isignors are absoh^tely' protected under a clause in the Memorandum oj Association of this Company.,
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING
THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT
WAREHOUSING
'(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
will be. ... 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb. ... • ... ••• 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
under ..... ... ... Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing.
Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY,
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
AGENTS POR. McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
GOOD HAIR FOR
AGL !
tmm
m
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off. TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT, Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
m" For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
egg- For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & 00.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT
HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
George and Market Sts.*
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAT,
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
Single Room, with Pull Board, Bs. per
day, or £2 2s. per week.
TERMS. The convenient
system of paying: for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
YOU ENJOY YOUR LUNCH
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms ; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.30 —from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
Please mention this paper when ordering.
khjjh
WfJ
kķĥ k
A BEAUTIFUL SOLID COLD RINC SET WITH A CENUINE CARNET NO MONEY WANTED. '
Simply send us your name and address, plainly written on a postal card, and we will send you 20 packages
of our Imperishable Violet Perfume in a box-free of all expense to you. You then sell the per.ume among
\our friends and neighbours at 6d. a package (if you can), and when sold you remit us the money you have
collected and we will send you Absolutely Free for your trouble the above described ring, which is Stamped
and warranted Nolid Gold, set with a Genuine Garnet. Remember you have no duty or char .es of any kind to
pay—both the perfume and Premiums are sent absolutely Free of all charges, our object in making this
marvellous offer, and giving such unusual fine premiums, is to get our very superior perfume into the hands
of the public immediately, as we are satisfied that everyone will be *o well pleased with r that they will gladly
recommend it to their friends-we have hundreds of unsolicited testimonials You simply send your name
and addi-esß pldnlv written on a post card, and we will send the perfume. N o money required. We take all risk.
(Joed* returnable if not sold. Remember we pay all Shipping Estpemes.
>NATIONAL SUPPLY CO., 38 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W. Dept. b.a
Pie me mention this paper when ordering.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney Clarence Street)
19, 21, 23 King Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES . . .
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pumps, Turbine Fans.
(Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
Messrs. GREENWOOD <£■ BATLEV LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors, Pumps, etc.
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
— „ .Insulated Cables, Wires, Tapes, etc.
fIUR SELECTIONS
.... OF ....
WORSTEDS,
TWEEDS,
SERGES,
OVERCOATINGS and
COSTUME CLOTHS,
FOR ....
autumn and Winter
Are now arriving by each incoming Mall Steamer.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Costume Makers,
73 and 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
jk jh
niVEN
vJ AWAY,
This Month,
to advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
2/6
The Bunch,
post free.
3 Black or Cream
Tips -with Osp-eys.
Write To-day. Send Postal Notes.
MILKER'S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bourke & Swanston sts., Melbourne
RAMEY’S
kjh
medicatok.
FOB THE TREATMENT OF
Catarrh, Hay Fever,
Bronchitis, Influenza,
Catarrhal Deafness, &c.
dedicator, with cornplcte treat
ment, only 10s. post free.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY
229. 231 Collin* St. Mflb.
Too Stout
was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 12U>., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending- stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
oft RJCORO's
t ssewc£°f jft*
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales —
Australian Drug Co., Ltd., O’Connell St., Sydney. All
Chemists, or Box 165, C.P.O.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
Sand Head Noises, no matter of
Show long standing. Are the same
to the ear« as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. &
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPYNE
Caution. Genuine Chlorodyne. *
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIAB.RHCEA, bears oa
tlie Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—■
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ot
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlobodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
DEAR SIR, —I have been cured of Weakness and De
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
E. PARKHURST, Pitt-street. Sydney.
khj
BLAIR’S
GOUT $ RHEUMATIC
PXIiXiS.
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBACO & NEURALCIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. ljd. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
“Don’t shout”
kjh
k
•' 1 hear you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
"‘How?’ Ob. some-
thing new —The Wilson.
Common-sense Ear-
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can't see them
-they’re invisible. I wouldn’t
know I had them in myself,
only that I hear all right."
.The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
tvorking parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other de-
vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon' request
■I. CtlAtHfga, 229-231 Collins Mein.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
jhķ
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English
American and made to order
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, &c. -
DENYER BROS. Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORCE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
!'
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 30/-
Head and Face Steamer, 47-
Can he forwarded to any address.
J. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., ivlelhaurna
jh
A Wonderful power is placed at your disposal in Hypnotism
the power to control others—to rel eve disease—to make
friends—to make money—and grat fy your ambition. You may
become a commanding master of humanity. In fact, there is
so much that is wonderful to tell you about it that I have
written a book for that purpose.
By a knowledge of Hypnotism; bad
habits, nervous diseases, bad disposi-
tions, sleeplessness and other afflictions
m ty b*cured—often in a single treat-
ment Backward or ungovernable
children show marvellous improve-
ment under hypnotic treatment at the
hands of th ir parents or others.
I have taught thousands of hypno-
tists in America. Hundreds of de-
lighted student* in Australia already.
I reach them through my book. The
system is very simple. There is no
reason why you should not become
as good a Hypnotist as I am.
Satisfaction guaranteed.
Send address in full. You will then
receive the “ KEY TO HYPNOTISM. ”
posted in a plain cover. Absolutely
jhk
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
THE GREATEST HYPNOTIST OF THE CENTURY,
89 Pitt .Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
Vtut I AdLCi uunc run
DRUNKENNESS
A tested and infallible remedy.
Within the rea h of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CU IES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Hume Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C-S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
NASAL POLYPUS
and Similar Growths in the Nasal
and Post-Nasal Passages . . .
CURED WITHOUT OPERATION.
[er Hundreds of cases successfully treated. Write foi
particulars to . . .
NEWHAM WATERWORTh,
Edward-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
ASTHMACURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Fop Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault's Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
OBtHAVLT A Co., Paris. Sold by ah Chemists.


Beanie’s Bronchitis Core.
THE fA-MOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OP ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken tfiis medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OP COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l aw writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
n>y case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks. —Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, hut derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked." —Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
'* Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vio.
"Mr. Hearne.—
"Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to m v mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“ JOHN S. MORTIMER."
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
" Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus —as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.’
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows:—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do —send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very'ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply."
12 Tears’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir. —My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. —I remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Tearo’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I am more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Tears’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney."
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILEft
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charlevillc
Queensland, writes :—“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’i
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.''
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist!. Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot- Qffi ce . No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562,
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
jo
IIMI'I) ~
*oo Snpxams
DA-'F'TO (Xjalsio Illawarrek), near
SYDNEY.
SMELTERS.
• • •
REFINERS
PRODXJCERa
OF
FINE SILVER.
m*
i
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co- of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILL AW AUK. A”
.. BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
uroh users of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SVi EEP
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to P. S. Morse, Manager, Tn ,smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAP TO, N.3.W.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
‘“Benger’s Food’
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
Food
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive, end Digestible.
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere,
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
t) find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘Bengers
Food ’ everywhere.”
“ If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.
As in the case of grain, Maoriland has a
greater crop per acre of deserted wives than any
oJier portion of Australasia. The Maoriland
-Lhvorce law is cumbrous, costly, and painfully
slow, j always liable to trip over its own
procedure, and the average Maorilander who
knows enough to get out of the wet soon figures it
out that it is quicker, cheaper and more certain to
bolt for America. In America he can call himself
bmith and marry again, and California is full of
omith. I he man who is saddled with the cost of
even a successful divorce case in Maoriland is
generally ruined for life. An Auckland man
recently went home early and found what has
been discovered by men who went home early
since Pharaoh’s grandfather shut up his office at
four o’clock in Memphis when the usual hour was
five. He sued for a divorce, but the notice should
have been served on a white form and a receipt
taken on a blue form, and registered on a
yellow form, whereas it was served on a green
form. Proceedings had to be started afresh, and
this time some other complication of color in the
documents caused the matter to be postponed till
next term. Meanwhile, he was ordered to con-
tribute £1 per week towards his wife’s support
and to supply her with an outfit of winter cloth*
ing. Then he got the notice served on the right
colored form, and paid the preliminary costs and
had everything apparently ready. Just here his
wife engaged the most expensive counsel avail-
able, and asked the Court to order him tp
find security for her costs, and the Court
obliged the lady. Petitioner’s 3ole means
were a salary of £3 per week and a few pounds in
the Savings Bank, and he was unable to find the
security, and as he could not get a divorce without
doing so, and he flatly declined to support the
lady, he simply paoked a portmanteau and left.
Even the Australian Jingo papers are
getting a little despondent as to the cost of the
war. The English expert opinion that 100,000 men
will be required to keep peace in S’Africa “f or
years,” means an annual expenditure of at W
£25,000,000 for an indefinite period, on top of a
first cost which has already reached £lB7 457 000
and leads Sydney D.T. to bewail this war’“ which
soaks up men and millions as the thirsty earth
soaks up rain.” How long will it be before the
Empire is sadly crowning with laurels those who
tried to keep it out of the disastrous annexation ?


I
f.
‘M/'
OF
s
K!
tMM tXOILLIHT NIMIOY PMMNTf
IN TMI
most AOOCPTAeua row*
TMI MIOIOINALLY AAJUTiVA »Sf»OiPLM.Of
PLANT* KNOWN TO A*V MOAT l(ll«*K)Uy
LTI TO OklANtt TMC SrSTCM CArCOTVA«.T
LT| TO MMAifINH* OVIROOMI
HABITUAL CONSTIPATION
ANO THt MMTtikl OtPtwOtNf ON f«t TO
M>U OOIM ANO MCAOAOMt* ANO MN*
TINT *«vf "Si TO AOT QtNTkY T*f
KIDNEYS. LIVER AND BOWELS.
BE
UittlbllTi
bo* omcat baitain ano ool<
O* SNOW MILL. LONOON t. (V
PRICE !•> IV4O.
THIS AND NO OTHER
is the Original and Genuine Syrup of
Figs, now known everywhere as
CALIFORNIA
Syrup of Figs
THE DELIGHTFUL LIQUID LAXATIVE.
'HE pleasant method and beneficial
effects of this well-known remedy,
manufactured by the California Fig
Syrup Company, illustrate the value of
obtaining the liquid laxative principles
of plants known to be medicinally
laxative and presenting them in the
form most refreshing to the taste and
acceptable to the system. It is the
one perfect strengthening laxative,
CLEANSING THE SYSTEM EFFECTUALLY,
DISPELLING COLGS AND HEADACHES,
PREVENTING FEVERS, OVERCOMING HABITUAL
CONSTIPATION PERMANENTLY.
Its perfect freedom from every ob-
jectionable quality and substance, and
its acting on the kidneys, liver and
bowels, gently yet promptly, without
weakening or irritating them, make it
the ideal laxative. In order to get its
beneficial effects, and to avoid imita-
tions, please remember the full name
of the Company printed on the front
of every package.
Ask for CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS, and look for the
Name and Trade Mark of the
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO., 31 & 32 Snow Hill, London.
Australian Branch : 7 Barrack Street. Sydney.
Of all Chemists,
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
plays °r ,osu :
French’s Acting Edition.
jhkh
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalof/ue of
Boohs Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
a
i
m
mm
m
wm
■
lIP
I
. | §
SII
:
? ■ : V: . '
■
■■■Hi■
■ Hi
*3sm'®m
8k
TEH INKY WAY.
John Norton, who has lately shown a
desire to bury himself in mud of his own throw-
ing, set the foundation-stone of a solid fortune by
an Equity suit. Truth having published—not
whilst under John’s guidance—a truly awful libel*
was cast in £5OOO damages with costs. The paper
hadn’t 5000 shillings to spare, and the proprietary
barricaded its premises and stood a siege
against the Supreme Court bailiffs, who tried to
seize the plant. The fortress held out well, and
the man with the verdict in time got tired and let
things slide awhile. The idea was then unani-
mously held that a N.S. W. libel verdict “ followed
the plant” which printed the libel, and John Norton
was able to buy Tkuth, with its supposed £5OOO
liability, for a mere song. Then in an Equity test
case, J.N. arguing on his own behalf, the Court
held that in case of a bona fide purchase of a news-
paper and plant a libel liability did not pass over
to the purchaser. It was a judgment of great
importance to newspaper men; and it started
Norton on the track to prosperity.
* » * •
Related of a genuine democrat (still on
deck) of the soft-hatted order, who once held
an Australian daily paper editorship, that his
breezy and picturesque lack of all “side”
led his bosses to once give him a gentle
hint about liis very unconventional attire. They
evidently didn’t want so much an aggressive
democrat in the editorial chair as clothes of some
stylishness. The editor, with an innocent desire
to please even unreasonable beings in such a little
matter as clothes, shortly afterwards appeared in
all the glory of a frock suit and a tall silk hat.
When first observed in this clothing—so goes the
yarn—he was arguing out a question in politics
with a working man, his silk hat reposing on the
back knob of a capacious brain-case, while he was
hitching up the tails of his frock coat to strike a
match on the seat of his lavender pants to light
his short clay pipe.
* * * *
If the Eastern Extension Co. hasn’t plenty
of friends among politicians and pressmen out here
to push its Australian interests it is certainly not
the fault of theco. Never a colonial “statesman,”
prominent journalist or any other “celebrity”
likely to possess influence visits London without
finding his way to “Winchester House,”
Old Broad-street, where someone will be found
ever ready to give the visitor “a good
time ’ in the “ Big Smoke, ” and send his messages
over the cable free of cost. Only once has the co.
been known to jib, and that was when a back-
block journalist handed in a cable for transmis-
sion to an Australian chum, giving particulars of
a “glorious drunk.” Few Londoners who have
never visited Australia are better acquainted with
Australian “celebrities” than the genial and
bulky “Bill” Lyne (no relation of Australia’s
political rogue-elephant), assistant-secretary of
the E.E. Co.
* * * *
Melb. Argus editor Willoughby was an
original member of Yic. Hansard staff. The
long holiday in the recess nearly broke his heart;
he was never happy unless working 23 hours out
of the 24. When he was chief of the Argus
reporting staff he was once sent, at the beginning
of the hour usually devoted to luncheon, to obtain
some information to enable the principal leader-
writer to write an article. He came back at the
end of the luncheon-hour with the article ready
written. A useful man to have on a newspaper
staff.
* • » *
“H.G.” : Rp the suggested scribesses’
club in Melbourne. That self-satisfied and toney
institution, the Austral Salon, originally started
as such ; and the title first suggested for it was
the “Ink and Art Club.” The trouble about the
A.S. was that on its first committee were a few
serious-minded dames who desired to have Papers
(with a cap. P) on stodgy subjects read at every
fortnightly meeting, and several others who
wanted to squeeze heavily-gilt Sassiety dames into
the principal offices. The result was that the
genuine women writers and artists were shoved
out, the little fight they put up being squelched
by the strategical move of a full-dress inaugural
night, wherein scintillated so many of the Naicest
that the girl-scribes and artists did not dare to
trot out their well-worn evening-dress.
* V * *
About the worst misprint that ever ap-
peared in Melb. Argus was in the introductory
article to Cup Day of ’66, written by John Thomp-
son, an English importation. A prominent line
should have read: “This will eventually be a
great wine-producing country.” What it did read
would make The Bulletin blush all over to print.
When Pastor Fitchett was editing Melb. D.T. he
wrote in a leader a sentence which read: “The
Puritans were forbidden to touch the virgins on
the Sabbath.” What he meant to say was—“the
virginals.” But hardly one of the readers of the
pious sheet noticed the misprint. It is generally
the extra-holy paper that “ falls in ” to an obscene
or blasphemous extent. A Sydney daily, ordi-
narily one of the best “ read ” papers in the world,
when it does make a bloomer indulges in some-
thing particularly awful. A death notice in its
columns once concluded with the ejaculation,
“Jesus have money on him”— i.e., the corpse. Of
course “ mercy ” was meant. It took a good deal
of trouble to placate the sorrowing relatives.
* * * *
“ Some tickle their throats with flamingo
feathers; for me, I read Nero’s poems,” Petronius
says in “ Quo Vadis.” In these days he would
read the “ personal column ” in a great daily.
The personal column is generally set afoot with
some good pars ; after a few weeks it invariably
degenerates into a series of obituary notices —the
last advts. of the vulgar dead. The column is
then, to all intents and purposes, edited by the
undertakers. The big corpse-planting firms of a
city are very profitable advertisers; their first
demand on “ the personal column ” is made by
stipulating that a sentence—“the funeral arrange-
ments were carried out by Ghoul and Ghastly ”
shall follow the recorded death-notice of some
more or less notable person. Then various under-
taking firms begin to find their own “notable
persons.” One motive is that they get their line
at the end of the notice; another that it often
clinches the bargain for a burying when G. and G.
can throw in the promise of “a nice notice in the
paper” for the corpse. And the burying people
being good advertisers, the pars they send in about
funerals are printed, and that accounts for the
12 lines telling a wearied world of the people of no
account who were at the funeral of Aldermen
Tom Nobody, J.P.—whilst brave, good, worthy
men, whose relatives can’t pay the undertaker
well enough to induce him to send in a par, go to
their graves without a line of memorial.
' * * •
Sydney Daily Telegraph paid its salaried
employees, from editor to office-boy, a bonus of 5
per cent, on annual income last year.
Clubs are the nurseries of news. Beware
of the nursery bottles.
• * * *
Ballarat Courier, in the hands of the
Messrs. Clark, is making a bold bid for the busi-
ness hitherto monopolised by the Melbourne
morning dailies. The proprietors have recently
put £15,000 into new and up-to-date machinery
and are extending their grip on the western
district in a way that is making King David and
his up-the-street rivals snort.
• * • •
The fault of using the same dictionary of
phrases, surely. In the Argus one Saturday, in
the usual inconsequent article about comings and
goings of Yankee millionaires—
Probably the threepence a widow drops into the collec-
tion-plate, weighed in ethical balances, might make even
Mr. Carnegie’s gifts of millions kick the beam.
In the Age of same Saturday, in its usual incon-
sequent article on the same subject, occurs the
following—
May we not then perceive the law of compensation at
work in both cases, so that when weighing in the balance
a rich poor man like Oliver Goldsmith against a poor rich
man like Andrew Carnegie we shall probably find the
latter kicking the beam ?
* * » *
A Sydney paper, which at times says
severe things about Sweating, until recently had
on its staff a reporter who had been for four years
drawing 225. 6d. per week.
• • *
A new paper is to be started in Perth (W. A.)
in the Labor interest, with ex-detective-office-
clerk Daglish, MP. for Subiaco, as editor. The
Worker, run at Kalgoorlie by a trained journalist
of long experience, operating with his hand on the
heart of the organisations, is not yet a dividend-
paying concern.
* * * *
G. B. Stronach, formerly editor of Sydney
Echo, has abandoned journalism, and now walks
in the peaceful paths of Westralian State employ.
* * * *
H. 4. Ridsdale, once part-owner (with
Edward Ellis) of Sydney Sunday Times, is now
writing mining articles in London. He was
known as the unluckiest editor in Australia, and
had a hair-raising libel record.
* * * *
How fine the line between friendship and
a free ad. !
* * * *
Sydney Worker now has eight pages, and
is otherwise considerably improved. It represents
the best penn’orth that Labor has so far been able
to give the public ' .
* » * *
G. H. Kingswell, formerly of Sydney
News and Newcastle Herald, afterwards pro-
prietor of Coolgardie Miner, is now Cape Town
correspondent of London Express.
“Giraroe” writes :
The New Guinea Govt, will give no assistance to cut
tracks to any of the goldfields on the mainland, nor will
it even put a wire-rope across the dangerous rivers. The
Govt, surveying-staff have never been sent to do anything
on goldfield tracks. Why should the Australian States
be taxed for the benefit of mission stations, broken-down
swells, Govt, officials, and niggers? Gov. Le Hunte
has paid great attention to the mission-pets and their
black-gin troubles, but has totally ignored the require-
ments of the unfortunate diggers. The Federal Govt,
should either counsel Mr. Le Hunte and his staff to run
the country for the benefit of the white population, or
should give them no money, and have nothing further to
do with them. When Revs. Chalmers and Tomkin were
killed and eaten by the nigs the world was shocked, and
soldiers were sent from Thursday Island ; but when two
prospectors, Champion and King, were killed and eaten,
neither the Government nor the holy-Joes took the
slightest notice of the matter. “ Oniy diggers ” you
know. ’
Of course, the digger deserves quite as much con-
sideration as the missionary. But what’s the
matter with running New Guinea for the Papuan ?
Shem.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fishing that night from a wharf at Dawes Point,
Sydney, I heard a sliding movement beneath the
piles. A watery moon was peeping over the edge
of a cloud —a malevolent-looking cloud, black-
green in color. By the uncertain light I saw a
Figure, not so much climbing as creeping from
the barnacled shelf below. It had the look of a
Wandering Jew who had, in vain hope of death,
put on his grave-cerements. Though the Figure
had just come out from the water, there was dry
mud caked in Its matted hair, which seemed to
twist and throb like a cluster of asps. On Its long
hands the deadly dryness of centuries showed in a
scaly leprosy. From one hand was festooned a
long string of squealing rats—rats, thin and
hungry-looking, who leaped over each others’
heads as though to bite the long-nailed, scaly-
hand above —rats, fat, dropsical, and sullen,
blinking evilly at the yellow light of the vvharf-
lainp. How the rats were kept together I could
not see. Some invisible cord bound them.
Holding them up near Its face, the Figure spoke
to them in a quiet, mellifluous jargon, sweet as a
subtle poison, and instantly they were looking up
at him eagerly. It stood for a moment, eyeing
the city, age and the dryness of years surrounding
It with a shroud of misty air. As if overcome by
sudden rage, It held up the mysterious bunch of
beady-eyed rats, now circling Its arm like a brace-
let, shook them once, twice, thrice in the face of
the town. Then It glided into, the shadows.
• * m *
Two Lascar seamen came along. I accosted
them: “ Did you see the rats ? ”
They looked at each other. I described the
gray horror.
“ You have seen Bombay Jack, sahib,” said the
elder, sadly. “He is The Plague—he is Death.
I knew men who saw him in Bombay years ago.
The priests of the temples offered much for him.
He was in Hong Kong. Allah be merciful! ”
I walked with them towards their ship,
Mahomet speaking with sad resignation:—“The
plague was unknown in Asia until the Jew, Noah,
collected man’s unclean beasts and penned them
in a floating sty. What ship could smell sweet
that held the sow and the common grey wolf ?
No, sahib, the Ark gave us the first plague. The
two rats that lived in the forehold scattered it
over Asia. Only for the Ark . . . well, well !
Allah be with you, sahib !
m * * *
Then I realised who was the Figure with the
rats. It was Shem —the first Asiatic.
ALBA.


Get what you ask for. Get
Doan’s. Don’t accept something
just as good. All Chemists sell
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, but
some try to substitute an article
they make more profit on. Price
2 9 per box ; six boxes, 15/3.
Posted on receipt of price by
foster - McClellan
CO., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
TALKING BACK
Most aches and pains of a “ Bad Back ” are Kidney Ills. A lame, a weak, an aching back
tell of Kidneys that are overworked. Backache is “ Back Talk.” “ Back Talk ” is Kidney
Talk. Kidney Talk is Kidney trouble, and all Kidney Troubles are dangerous. Don’t neglect
a Kidney warning.
DOAN’S
Backache Kidney Fills
Cure all Kidney & Bladder Troubles
and are Endorsed by
SYDNEY PEOPLE.
Only room for two statements ; but we have hundreds
like them, and all Sydney cures,
Mr. J. J. Butler, 17 Dick-st., Chippendale, this city, says: “Over twelve months ago I
took Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for a pain in the back, caused by weak kidneys. I only
used them off and on, as occasion demanded, but they cured me effectually, and I am thus able to
speak most highly of the pills. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have put my kidneys in perfect
order, and I’ve never had a pain come back since I left off using the medicine, which is over six
months ago. A medicine of this sort is badly needed, and I wish Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills every success. I got these pills at Newman’s Pharmacy, in King-st.”
Mr. Jos. Grieve, Wood an 1 Coal Merchant, 18 Albion-street, Surry Hills, states : —“ For the past five
or six years I suffered from kidney disorder, which caused me constant pain. The symptoms of this
terrible complaint were severe backache and irregularity of the secretions of the kidneys. The pain
had such complete mastery over me that at times I could not rise from my bed. I went to doctors to
see what their skill could do for me, but gained no benefit from them. I tried medicines with no better
results. One day I saw an advertisement regarding a remedy for kidney trouble, and, as it was not a
nostrum said to cure everything under the sun, I visited Newman’s Pharmaoy, in King-street, and pro-
cured a box of these pills-Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I felt a sense of relief right from the first
dose. My pain gradually grew less, and finally disappeared, as did the other symptoms of kidney
disorder.”
This is Mr. Grieve’s testimony given 12 months later “ Twelve months ago I was cured by Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. lam still a believer in these pills, having never had a return of my com-
plaint since, except on one occasion when I got wet in the late bad weather ; but a few doses of these
pills quickly set me right again. I had been a terrible sufferer with the kidneys, and nothing ever gave
me relief but Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and they cured me. If I hear anybody complaining of a
bad back I always tell them of the medicine which cured me.”
jkhk
ĵh
Explorations In Civilisation.
BEING THE LETTERS OF AN AUSTRALIAN IN EXILE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
October 20. —Went ashore to Colombo Town
again at 6 a.m. At the landing-stage, as if they
had not moved since the arc-lights began to hum
last night, there were still the loafing half-castes,
and still the sweating rowers putting one horse-
power each into their great spatulate-bladed
sweeps, and still the rickshaw men clamorous for
burdens. In the streets —the beggars calling on
the great, noble gentleman to consider the
filthy caller and give five cents —the Hindu
carriage-driver looking for a fare (his horses’
fodder, half-a-dozen bundles of some green stuff
like millet hound under the driver’s seat). The
merchants came from the bazaars, crooking
fingers at me, calling on the great sahib to stop,
as they had given the great sahib every satisfaction
on his last visit I had not been there before.
The obvious lie was not a lie—only a formula.
Two betel-nut vendors—their mouths and tongues
stained to a brilliant crimson by the eating of
their own wares—proffered shredded betel on palm-
leaves ; a naked street sweeper with a hollow,
lozenge-shaped broom swept the gutters; thou-
sands of Indian crows croaked on the telegraph
wires, or hunted in the eaves for rats and taran-
tulas and other vermin. They are protected by
the Government as scavengers. Their numbers
vere legion, these black-brown birds with grey
heads, the chartered libertines of the rafters, the
lords of the poncianas, and the awnings. They
perch on the catamarans, and no hand is raised
against them. One I saw eating a mouse in the
middle of the street. Rickshaws and- carriages
passed around him and bn did not move until he
had finished his tit-bit.
In the Post-office I bought stamps of a Baboo —
there are colored telegraph-operators also. Baboos
fill all but the administrative positions in the
Government service. This is why English coloni-
sation has succeeded in these latitudes better than
any other nation’s colonisation. No man of this
breed quarrels with his bread, and so their loyalty
to their conquerors seems assured. They are
naturally slaves and beggars—they would be loyal
to a rat if they thought the rat was strong. And
that is what “loyalty” mostly is—the devotion
of the ignorant, after business hours, to the ideas
of the man who provides him with a job.
1 carriage passed me at the tired trot -usual to
Gey lon. It was drawn by a liveried Hindoo. In
the carriage was a doughy-looking man with a
thin, pretty, bejewelled exotic woman by his side.
I followed the carriage to the other side of the
square and found a Sikh soldier standing on guard
at a worm-eaten barracks. The Sikh told me this
was the Treasury. The carriage had stopped next
door and I followed and found there a Church of
England in full blast. There was a weak parson
preaching in an unobtrusive way like the still,
small voice of conscience—and the limp and
scented worshippers getting rid of their sins at
ease, while outside, two sweating coolies pulled the
punkahs to cool off the congregation. It was <•
cool, luxurious way of serving Grod. White men
were already in the hotel next the church —drink-
ing big and frequent whisky pegs. In the square,
Sunday was like any other day—the same Tamils.
Hindus, Mohammedans and coolies, the naked
street sweepers making the roads as clean as a new
plate, the little bulls in the small landaus waiting
for a fare and enduring the flies, for the most of
the time, patiently, though with infrequent and
sudden bursts of impotent anger. Here loafing
through these crowds I recognised in many of the
niggers men I had known on the other side of the
world. In a betel-nut man I saw Jack , of
Melbourne, and a great Melbourne personage in
an ancient loafer who begged under the poncianas
at the shipping office, and another knight in an
oily scoundrel who tallied the coal bags to the
bargees. And tnere was Marshall Lyle (his black
hair turned red in the attempt to bleach it with
lime) pulling the punkah at the church, and in a
particularly villainous Cingalese who wanted to
sell me a Kimoro I recognised another intimate.
And now 8 a.m. had arrived, and the ship’s six-
teen-hours stay (of which nearly twelve hours had
been darkness) had expired. So I strolled down
to the landing stage. Near the landing I saw
Kipling again. I had seen him a dozen times
before that morning. Once he was a curling, cat-
like Parsee who tried to sell me jewellery; once
he was the Baboo clerk at the post office; once he
was a scoundrelly half-caste, aping the sloth of
the whites around him and loafing in the Babel of
the landing-stage.
When I see the sloth that comes to the white
from long association with the black, the hope
that my land will keep itself white becomes
almost fanatic. For the slave-owner is lower than
the slave, and if freetrade in coolies, and Japs.,
and Chinese were allowed in North Queensland,
N.Q. would soon achieve all the worst characteris-
tics of Indian life—of white men ordering about the
native workmen and demoralising themselves with
resourcelessness and whisky —of white women
becoming lazy and floppy and grubby with idle-
ness, too tired to sneeze, unfit for maternity, and
yet beooming the mothers of weedy, pasty chil-
dren, destined to grow into wasters bodily and
mentally. I saw one of these women. She was
doughy-faced and chinless, and had the nose of a
woman who loses tier virtue because she is too
lazy to say “No,” and too tired to call for assist-
ance. Her husband was very leggy and seemed
to be legs, waist and moustaches mostly. His
moustaches were upturned like boar tusks, and
the twisting evidently occupied most of his time.
This couple had a child—a miserable atom such as
I trust will never be begotten in Australia.
The mother was,, of course, too tired to nurse
the child —that was done by her Japanese servant.
Meanwhile the thin-flanked mother nursed a pie-
bald dog which was about the size of a fairly large
mutton chop.
Aboard the ship the position is as bad. Among
the passengers from the East we picked up at
Colombo, are many women proceeding to Europe
—married women all of them, but not one baby to
three women. Instead, they nurse dogs and oats,
kissing the beastly things a dozen times a minute.
I believe these cat and dog affections among
childless wives and spinsters are forms of sex-
inversion. When you see a regard for five pounds
weight of dog obsessing the maternal instinct in a
woman no other conclusion is feasible. But what
is to be expected of the women if the men are
effeminate ? There is aboard—among the many
other Johnnies—a French officer, eyeglassed and
'■orsetted, wasting his world of passion on a
yapping little our—quite half-a-pound heavier
than the lady’s size of dog.
It is, let us hope, impossible that Australia
could ever sink to be the home of a community
which tolerated, even as an obscure minority,
people like the average European-Indian. Only
one thing could bring us to the necessary condition
of national weariness, and that is the style of
militarism, with swells for officers and slaves for
soldiers, which the English began in India a
century ago. And the Boer war has possibly
killed that kind of militarism for ever and ever.
The business man of Colombo is a Baresark of a
man for strength, compared to the military
Johnnie, and the Civil Service Johnnie, and the
Johnnie planter who has an unlimited supply of
laborers at 25 cents (4d.) per day ; and so in time
does really regard himself as in some sorb a king.
And —fitting neighbor to the spectacle of the
European with all his strength leached out of him
by assiduous nigger-ministrations—the place is
rotten with beggars : from the fellow who has
probably cut off his own leg as a matter of busi-
ness in order to bottom on your pocket with the
maimed stump, to the hordes of children, some of
them mere babies, who tumble about your knees
craving backsheesh for the love of God.
Australia must keep herself white—if she would
keep herself clean and manly and strong.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
The Conversion of Bangford.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Boiling Downs was smitten with the tenfold
curse of a drought-stricken land. Old Bangford,
the owner, was the profanest Scotchman west of
the Darling; and Walter Townsend was a pale,
apologetic Methodist whom Bangford kept for the
sole reason that he could get no other book-keeper
to live in that Sahara for £l5 per annum. The
sheep were dying by thousands, and the quicker
they died the harder the owner swore, till he
became the envy of drovers and bullock-drivers
from the Murray to the Gulf.
One day Bangford counted 267 carcases in the
mud round a dried-up waterhole, and he viciously
spurred his horse to a canter. The poor brute
fell from sheer exhaustion, and the old man kicked
his skull in with the heel of his boot, and swore so
that the crows rose till they hid the sun in their
flight.
When the squatter came in after the day’s work
Walter Townsend used to tremble in his boots,
and they would eat their evening meal in a silence
broken only by the Scotchman’s curses at flies,
mosquitoes, and town-bred, book-keeping louts
who never knew the boundaries of the runs they
lived on. One day, however, the two were driving
together, and the book-keeper did what for Weeks
he had been screwing up his courage to do. He
proposed that they should pray for rain.
“Pray for rain,-ye psalm-singing !” but
the rest of the oration was far removed
from the limits of publishable English. Before it
was finished Mr. Townsend was so frenzied with
fear that he contemplated hurling himself from
the buggy. At last, in a wild endeavor to change
the subject, he blurted out:
“Ah! I say, Mr. Bangford, what do you call
the horses we are driving?”
“Holy Joe and Hypocrite. They alwavß run
well in double harness.”
The book-keeper hardly spoke again for a week.
As times went on things got worse, and the meii
on the station held grave doubts as to their em-
ployer’s reason. He never opened his mouth but
to curse, and he rarely lifted his hand or his foot
but to hit something which he knew would not hit
back.
One evening, after the squatter had been out on
the run all day, the cook announced, as he carried
in the drought-stricken mutton and the week-old
bread, that Mr. Townsend had held a little
prayer-meeting among those at the homestead
that day, and that they had all prayed for rain.
The book-keeper waited to hear no more.
He leaped from his chair like a wallaby, and, clear-
ing the room and the house, never stopped till he
broke two wires by falling over the garden (?)
fence. Half the night he stayed on the plain, a
mile and a half from the homestead, trembling,
afraid lest his very breathing might betray his
presence to the grey-bearded, bloodthirsty slave-
driver, who he imagined was seeking his where-
abouts. Towards morning, he made stealthily for
the house, and, hearing loud snores from the cause
of his terror, he silently crept into bed. The
sweltering heat was full of the odour of dead
sheep. This, and the terror of what the morn
might bring forth, made sleep impossible.
But, presently, the. stillness of the night was
broken by a mysterious drop on the iron roof. It
was followed by another, and then by half-a-
dozen. Then there was a rattle overhead. Had
fright driven the bookkeeper mad, or was it rain-
ing ? Soon the spouts began to run, and, feeling
he was saved, Walter Townsend slept. In the
morning, when he woke, the rain was falling in
sheets, and water was everywhere. He rose and
sought the boss.
“Youd d hound!” was the greeting, but
Bangford actually tried to stop himself swearing—
a thing before unheard of in the annals of Boiling
Downs.
“Er —didn’t I pray for rain and didn’t it
come ? ” ,
“Ye b—blessed d—dashed cur! Didn’t ye
see sheep die in whole mobs ? And haven’t ye
let ’em die ? Haven’t ye seen me drop thousands?
And haven’t ye let me drop’em? Why in the
name of H—; why, in God’s name, didn’t ye pray
before? Here’s yer cheque. Clear out of this,
and never let me see ye whining round here
again. If ye hadn’t ha’ taught me the love of
the Almighty, I’d ha’ broke every bone in yer
body ! ”
PHIL ORESPIGNY.
Extract from a letter in Bendigo (Vic.)
Independent:
Then, again, think of the number of hogs and sows
(with apologies to the pigs) that become mated at the
altar or elsewhere. As long as the hog has a pair of pants
on, the sow enters the “ holy state ” of matrimony.
And in another part of the same letter this
strenuous correspondent describes The Bulletin
as a “ purveyor of vulgarity.”
A certain Australian Supreme Gourt Judge
habitually loses his temper when, anyone mentions
in his presence that old age pensions and pensions
to judges are the same in principle. He argues
that pensions to Judges are merely arrears of pay.
One difference th*ere is, however, between the two
pensions—the poor have to be CO or 65 years of
age to come under their Act, whereas the Judge,
if incapacitated for work at any age, slides grace-
fully under his Act.


kh
THE
jk
TRADE
jh
mark.
‘Graciosa’
PATENTED. REGISTERED.
The most Comfortable and Durable of Corsets.
Cannot Break at the Waist Line!
WHAT THE WEARER S S/IV' OF THEM—
Lady W. writes:—“The ‘GRACIOSA’ Corset is simply perfect in shape,
adapting itself to the body in any position.’’
Lady S. writes “I find your ‘ GRACIOSA ’ Corset the most comfortable I have
ever worn, and a periect fit.’’
Lady M. writes :—“Your * GRACIOSA ’ Corset is the very perfection of fit, the
very thing I have been wishing for, as there is perfect freedom of movement
of the body. lam quite delighted with it.”
Lady B. writes :—“ Your 1 GRACIOSA ’ Corset is a splendid fit, and the most
comfortable corset I have ever worn.”
P.R. writes :—“ Our assistant likes the ‘ GRACIOSA ’ Corset very much, and
thinks they will be a great success, and have alarge sale. We shall be very
pleased to give an order as soon as they are ready for delivery.”
W. T. writes “ Your ‘ GRACIOSA ’ Corset gives great satisfaction.”
SOLD BY ALL FIRST CLASS DRAPERS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
W. S. THOMSON & CO., Ltd , London, Manufacturers ,
Makers of t e World-Renowned “Glove-Fitting” Corsets.
G. F. Griffiths, Sole Agent for Australasia, Watsons Chambers, Melbourne^
12 PRIZE MEDALS .
aagp
TEARS’ SUCCESS
AS
the UNIVERSAL REMEDY foe
Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Hoarseness, &c.
HAS MADE
Oxbridge
fimn Tnn ip
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY TO EVERYBODY.
Important Notice:
SUBSTITUTION. — There cure so many imitations
of this successful, and therefore popular, remedy that
it is of the utmost importance you should use the
word “ OWBRIDGE ’ * when buying Lung Tonic,
cmd TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE .
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, M.P.S., Chemist, Hull.
Sold everywhere in bottles, at Is. lid.
2». 9 d., 4sl 6 d., & lls., by all
Colonial Medicine Vendors.
COPYBIGHT.
ĥjk
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
BONNINGTON’J
IRISH MOSS
'aagftggggatag
1 ‘'“’VlnicSodV" ‘* ‘
aaytt-’Krss'jSJt
GEORGE BOMMINGTON
Wltiliii
hkj
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
,v< ,»
WHAT t
BEECH AM’S PILLS
) - - CAN DO!
BEECHAM’S FILLS cure Bilious and Nervous Disorders.
BEECH AM’S FILLS cure Constipation and Sick Headache.
BEECHAM’S FILLS ensure proper Assimilation of Food.
BEECHAM’S FILLS arouse Sluggish and Torpid Livers and
dispel Bile.
BEECHAM’S PILLS Strengthen the Stomach.
BEECHAM’S FILLS cure Stomachic Troubles, such as Indi-
gestion, Want of Appetite, Dyspepsia, Fulness after Meals,
Vomitings, Sickness at the Stomach, &o.
BEECHAM’S FILLS give almost instant relief.
BEECHAM’S FILLS cure Restlessness and Insomnia, and
give sound and refreshing sleep.
BEECHAM’S FILLS remove the result of indiscretion in
eating and drinking.
. * ' , , ' '► - „ : ' 4 * / . * \ 'A £ . . t \
BEECHAM’S FILLS are suitable for both young and old.
BEECHAM’S FILLS will make you look well, feel well, and
keep well.
BEECHAM’S FILLS are especially suitable for the Diseases
and Ailments common to Females of all ages.
BEECHAM’S PILLS- In Boxes, Is. (56 pills) and
2s. 9d. (168 Dillsl.
i m
;r
1
K?
-
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
The Langston Regenerator
WILL CURE
YOU
Its effects are almost instantaneous and the good results go
on increasing from day to day.
Health, Vigor, Strength £*‘
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, permanently located in
Melbourne since 1886, originator of the Regenerator treatment, has so
perfected his method that it has revolutionised the art of Healing,
and it can almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable
cases.
Are You a Sufferer
Do you feel nervous, fretful, timid and lack the power of will and
action ? Are you subject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a
disordered condition ? Do you feel generally debilitated? Do you suffer from Rheumatism, Neuralgia or other
aches or pains ?
Do not fail to have che Doctor diagnose your case. If you are unfamiliar with the Regenerator treatment,
prepared in his own laboratory, which is annually curing 1 thousands, send at once for full information ;
it is absolutely •free.
Seels: the Truth, its costs NTothing!
No matter what you are suffering from, the Regenerator restores the shattered constitution
like magic.
All communications are considered sacredly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.G.S., Eng., cor. Russell & Collins Sts,, Melbourne
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMIPETITIOISr.
WINES
, k ’V'
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF
% '
Kent
&a.
NET
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPP S ’ S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
THE ONLY WAY
TO BE CURED of Weakening and Debilitating Disuses
is to obtain the PROPER REMEDIES. We have the
REMEDY that will CURE YOU. So CONFIDENT are
we of this, that we will send a trial course FREE OF
CHARGE and abide by the result. Send your symptoms
and prove our statement. Address —Botanic Institute,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-st., Sydney.


WATERPROOF COATS
ROBRER BOOTS
««» GOLOSHES
PERDRIAU and COMPANY,
(between Bond & Hunter Streets) 270 Q@OI"gG Stl"<BGty SyCtflGy
60
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
■W- CL IEILIDIR-lIDG-IE! &c CO .
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
messseMm-.
UZMaS
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Worthington Pumps
For all Services kept in Stock.
SexieS.. for Catalogue.
REPRESENTED
IN
to
Hi
M
8
AUSTRALIA
BY
Mu
v-miiFr-s
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.,
SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE.
c
\
<S>
ĵhk
■aaiaavo smooxs
S. FREEMAN * SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO'S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
BXAX> OFFICE : WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
hjkh
The Universal Remedy for Acidity oi tue
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
1 he Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
liheuma,tic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFCiRD^ 1
MAGNESIA
jk
iTMfiTal iTi m i£Tsif>Tn FTFlffi i
■fa
■ e
knowlb s
Knowles Steam Pumps
Best Value. Highest Efficiency.
A Large Stock of Pumps suitable for every
kind of service ready for immediate delivery.
@0 Clarence-st., Sydney, and
533 Collins-st., Melbourne.
LAC
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TpBIMS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
mHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
A Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
H. p. GRESORU t CO.
Machinery Merchants,
Melbourne & Sydney.
HAVE IN STOCK—
Blake's Steam Pumps.
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery.
Mundy’s Hoisting Engines-
Empire Co.’s Laundry Machinery-
American “All Steel” Pulleys-
Harris ‘‘Champion” Lubricating Oils.
Mason Eeducing Valves-
Ludlow Sluice Valves-
Korting’s Injectors and Ejectors-
Tanite Emery Wheels. _
Pulsometer Engineering Go.,
ENGLAND,
Manufacturers of Pumps for all Purposes
The Patent Pulsometer Steam Pump is particularly
suitable for Contractors. Very strong, easily
operated, can be slung anywhere.
STOCKS KEPT. WHITE FOR CATALOGUES.
SOLE AGENTS-
jhk
71 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
486 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
The fi|isa lubricant Co., South Shields, Eng.
Lubricants and Packing-3 for all purposes. Patent Mica Grease saves 90% in cost of lubrication, and keeps
bearings perfectly cool. Patent Mica Packings last twice as long as ordinary, and are 25% lighter. They do
not score the rods, but put a mica surface on them, similar in appearance to electro-plate. '
Sole Agent for Australasia : R. A. H ERVEY. Depot, 171 Clarence-st., Sydney, N.S.XV.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10h3.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets ant)
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING Fi
of various sizes supplied.
ril
mm
V fe
MM
gp«S
o
■gJ'OTICE TO MELBOURNE VISXTOR&
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Statior, and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in ’v ictoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
