

McEWAW’S ale.
GAELIC
BEAVER STOUT.
Pure,
therefore
Best
9
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity."
The Lancet.
K. G. WATKINS & C 0,..,
107 Kent street, Byflney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Send for
Prices and
Particulars.
Descriptive
Catalogues
on
Application.
Most
Up-to-Date
Machines.
MEDICAL CERTIFICATE.
“ Ararat (Victoria), 25th Aug-., 1902.
“ Daring the past few years Eczema has become of very
frequent occurrence, especially in children. In the treat-
ment of this troublesome affection the usual medicinal
remedies failed in many cases to give relief, and I was very
pleased to have a new preparation, named ‘ Oleac,’ put into
my hands for trial. I can recall to my mind three cases of
children in which the usual remedies had no beneficial
effect, and the application of ‘ Oleac ’ according to the
printed directions removed all the irritation of the skin.
I have also heard of many adults using the ‘ Oleac ’ with
great benefit.— JAMES SMEAL, Surgeon, &c., Ararat ”
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin writers. Cloth, 300 pages ;
price, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
SOLE DTSTRIBTJTmO AGENTS :
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
PM,
Sawing & Woodworking Machinery,
Vertical & Horizontal Band Mills,
O-raxid Prix,” Paris, 1900,
(HIGHEST POSSIBLE AWARD.)
& GO., 85 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
‘RACKAROCK,”
Bd.
per lb.
R. A. HERVEY,
Cor. Clarence & King:-Sts.
SYDNEY.
THORNE'S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
“ —— : '
fiadSeys Orient fiotel.
DUNEDIN, HZ
CITY HOTEL
(First Grade).
J« A. TURNER - » Proprietor.
ELI
»
a
PENFOLD’S WINES.
Grand Champion Prize of Australia at Melbourne, August 22, 1902.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2J 3 3£ 4 6 6 8 10 12 inch.
-/7 -/9 -flOi 1/- 1/2 1/6 IAI 2/8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 IAO 2/2 2/11 3/6 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State. .
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
ll7 York-street, SYDNEY.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
E diswan - Lamp.
ipii ||i|| !! | Sji!!|ii ,||| i!il!illi
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
nave no Worthless
Imitations.
the mm & sra
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch : 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYAKD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildings, Edward-st., Brisbane.
Mining and Dredging Plants.
Fowler Traction
Engines, I
St!
The Clyde Engineering C?t,Lt?
Desiccating Plants.
Hopper Waggons, &c.
m
PROOF
PneS-%
>VJM
Head Office:
10 BLICH ST., SYDNEY
ERAN
ncet states
The La
“A SOUND, HONEST BRANDY, which
our analysis and examination show
to be of a FRAGRANCE, PURITY and
QUALITY SECOND TO NONE.”
A NICE PRESENT.
The New Combination PIN-
CUSHION, THIMBLE & REEL
HOLDER, nickel plated, plush
top. Clamps on to any table
by means of a spring-. Price,
only 25.; post free.
Star Novelty Company,
229-231 Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBIMS.
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
WHEN buying a KEROSENE GAS STOVE insist
on getting a noiseless
JUPITER
The Very Latest
Invention.
Burns Noiselessly,
Without Smell
or Smoke,
Perfectly Safe.
Obtained First Prize
wherever exhibited.
Stocked by all Leading Hardware Merchants and
Storekeepers.
Sole Agents for Australasia—
Melson and Robertson,
17 LOFTUS ST., SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vol. 23— No. 1182.]
[Saturday, October 11, 1902.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


THE LATEST BOOKS AT ""
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Capes, Mill of Silence, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Griffith, Tales of a-Goyernment Official, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Wilson-Barrett, Soldiers’ Love, 2s 6d & 3s Cd d 6d
M'Hugh (Hugh), It’s Up to You, 3s, p. 4d.
Whishaw (Fred), Mazeppa, 3s 6d, p. 7d.
Mann, In Summer Shade, 2s-6d & 3s 6d, postage 6d.
An English Girl in Paris, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d
Gorky, The Outcast, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
£ Policeman Flynn, 6s. postage 6d.
Koothby (Guy), Uncle Joe’S Legacy, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d
Write to us for any Book or Magazine you Want. " ’ r '
We are always pleased to answer Inauirirs
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Do«, South of King St.) &. at Moibou™. l London
“Cbe Bulletin” Reciter.
You can’t be Amusing
Without it. . . .
Humorous and Exciting Stories in Stirring Verse
suitable for Recitation.
Price 5/-; Post Free from Bulletin Office, 5/4.
“Cbe Bulletin” Story Book
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
the Best Short Stories
of two Decades.
nothing better typical
of Australian Betters.
«£*
VIVID
VIVID
VIVID
VIVID
BRIGHT
BRIGHT
BRIGHT
BRIGHT
RACY
RACY
RACY
RACY
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
(REGISTERED}.
(REGISTERED).
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
'P9 'Si ‘SNIX Ml
CVVC
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
■ SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
G. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE ; and FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., MELBOURNE, AGENTS.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE RED PAGE.
ZOLA.
THEY acclaim me: yet they put my
publisher in gaol,” Zola is reported as
having said when, in the midst of the
Dreyfus case, he visited England and
was enthusiastically welcomed there. It was a
fair comment on a startling change in English
opinion. Zola, before execrated as the literary
Apostle of Filth, was then lauded as the
champion of Truth and Justice, the strong, sane
man in a land furious for wrong. That strange
change of English public opinion was not the
result of any corrected impression as to the aim
and value of his books ; it was a tribute to Zola’s
courage and sincerity as a politician. Perhaps some
reflected that the man, capable as a citizen of such
a distinguished degree of self-sacrifice, courage and
honesty, was probably not as a writer the disgust-
ing beast they had before considered him. It is
safe to say that, if so, it was only a few. The
reversal of verdict was prompted by sentiment
rather than reason. Zola had taken up in France
exactly the same attitude as a few years later the
pro-Boers ” were to take up in England. He had
thrown himself in opposition to the general body of
public opinion in his country, convinced that it was
mistaken, though to be in opposition was to be
condemned as a traitor and a pro-German. The
Englishman in his sports is a cheerful winner, and
in his politics a generous appreciator of courage
which does not run counter to his own opinions
and aims. If he should reprobate more or less
vigorously John Morley and Herbert Spencer,
when they are out of sympathy with his
predatory Imperialistic, he is lie arty in his
praise of a Mazzini, a Kossuth, and even a Zola.
The of Dreyfus in France were, in
effect, pro-English, just as the anti-1 freyfusards
were generally Anglo-phobists. To that fact, and
that alone, was the sudden popular acclamation of
Zola in England due.
But popular acclamation, needless to remark,
neither makes nor unmakes literary reputations ;
and though Zola’s politics have secured for him,
as laurels on his untimely grave, manv remark-
able eulogies from English-tongue papers—not as a
rule acutely interested in French literature, nor,
indeed,, in any literature—that is of no value when
his place as a writer has to be accurately
appraised. The writer has to be considered
apart from his political courage—mistaken or
not. This much may, however, be allowed—
that the evident sincerity of Zola as a publicist is
proof of his sincerity as a writer, and a refutation
of the charge—if refutation be needed—that he
waded in filth for filth’s sake and for the good of
his banking account. The sober, grey, ever-toiling
writer must be granted the virtue of honest pur-
pose.
At a time when (March, 1893) the Dreyfus case
had not won that much for Zola, the novelist,
speaking in his own defence, on the occasion of
the English publication of “Dr. Pascal,” said :
My work on “ Doctor Pascal ” amuses me. I don’t sup-
pose that the public in England will understand this, but
it amuses me because I am able to defend invself in it
against all the accusations which have been brought against
me. Pascal’s work on the members of his family is, in
small, what I have attempted to do on humanity, to show
all so that all may be cured. It is not a book which like
“ The Downfall ” will stir the passions of the mob. It is
a scientific work, the logical deduction and conclusion of
all my preceding novels, and at the same time it is my
speech in defence of all that I have done before the Court
of public opinion. It is the vindication of the work
which, commenced twenty-four years—nay, it was twenty-
five years ago—now comes to its end. That circumstance,
by the way, is another which gives me cause to be glad.
It is not given to all authors to carry out to the very end
a plan of the magnitude of mine. It is something in this
life to be able to do so. But perhaps the greatest pleasure
I take in writing the book consists in the fact that, with
Dr. Pascal as a mouthpiece, I am able to vindicate and to
justify myself, to defend my long series of novels. People,
especially in England, have accused me of being a porno-
grapher. This I shall refute through Pascal. It has been
ipaid that all my characters are rascals —people of bad lives.
Pascal will explain that this is not so. I have been charged
with a lack of tender-heartedness, as having no tender,
no human chords in my nature; Pascal will show that
this is. not so. And he will do more than this. In
defending my work against the accusations brought
against it, he will sum up the whole theory of heredity,
the scientific problem which is the mainspring oi
the whole Rougon-Macquart series. For the purpose of
expounding this theory he will have a family of five
generations, composed of members of the most varied
professions—soldiers, peasants, speculators, priests,
painters—a whole section of society, each separate and
distinct in character, but all united by the common bond
of atavism. . . . The novel will be a sermon on heredity,
and will establish my theory that the day when men
know how to master this influence of heredity they will
be what they are not now, the masters of the destiny of
the human race. Yes, when natural selection shall have
given place to what I may describe as logical selection,
humanity will soar to heights which even the most
enthusiastic optimists have never dreamed of.
Therein is Zola’s defence of his sincerity. Is it
not also a condemnation out of his own mouth of
any claim to be a novelist of the first rank ? The
Rougon-Macquart series comprises 20 novels.
Twenty novels with a purpose, with the one pur-
pose, the one sermon ? Toujours perdrix l If
there were no other information available as to
Zola’s work, that would be sufficient to show that
he was, at any rate, not a supreme novelist. No, as
he says himself, his work is to be classifu*! as
“ scientific.” And thereupon is encountered the
objection that scientific inquiry cannot well be
advanced on the lines of “fiction.” There can
hardly be imagined a method of propounding a
scientific theory more likely to prove futile than a
novel—unless it is 20 novels with the purpose of
them all only explained in the last.
' Let him claim a place among the Immortals
either as a novelist or as a scientific writer, and
Zola seems to be doomed to an adverse verdict.
The bitter truth about a man, around whose
writings so much controversy has raged, is that he
was a great romancer spoiled, a wonderfully
strong literary force, in the main misdirected.
Zola was many things, but, above all things, a
crank. He hail a splendid capacity for judging
human nature; a style vigorous if rugged, pic-
turesque if over-strained ; a lively gift of surround-
ing common-place things, with a halo of
interest; and an infinite capacity for taking
pains. With all these he might have pro-
duced some undisputed masterpieces of fic-
tion. But with all, and above all, he was a
crank, a man with a fanatic belief in some curious
ideas about heredity, and a fanatic 'resolution to
prove his theories at all costs. The shadow of his
mania is over almost all Zola’s work ; it is respon-
sible for the extravagant idea of writing 20 novels
with the one purpose; to it are due the outrages on
art in-.almost all of those works, a powerful story
being constantly interrupted to allow of a sex out-
rage, a brutal murder, or an excursion to the
sewer—seemingly needless, causeless—to obtrude,
to point a past moral as to sonjebody’s grand-
father, or to adorn a future tale as to somebody’s
grandson. Zola was a great writer with a great
weakness.
Much magnificent flapdoodle has been written
as to “the wonderful genius,” the “noble pur-
pose ” of the Rougon-Macquart series of pseudo-
scientific novels, The Chinese soholar, who boasts
that he is able to write 10,000 lines of poetry on a
peanut, probably could never be brought to under-
stand that the occasion and the effort were not
mutually suitable. Similarly, the Zola-fanatics
are impervious to the argument that 20 works of
fiction—not “realistic ”at all, but dealing, in the
main, with highly improbable incidents and some-
times with absolute impossibilities—do not provide
the proper medium for a scientific argument
on heredity. But to the unbiassed mind
that seems self-evident. Of what possible
scientific use can be the discussion of a
theory by acknowledged fictions, and with the
aid of such incidents as the unimaginable
brutality of the Buteaus in “The Earth,”
(which one cannot believe as possible, even in the
light of the Sangal trial), and the “spontaneous
combustion ” of the old brandy-soaker Macquart
ln . Dr. Pascal ?” A series of novels bristling
with medical and other fallacies may be interest-
ing but they certainly are not “scientific.”
Asa scientist Zola can claim no serious standing
But as a romancer, what a great writer he might
have been'if he had not turned his thoughts to mor-
bid anatomy with such crank-like persistence ! In
almost every one of his books are pages of descrip-
tion, delineations of character, which can challenge
any comparison—the market square in “The
Belly of Paris, the garden in “ The Transgression
of thei Abbe Mouret,” the shop in “The Women’s
Paradise, ■ the speculative spirit in “ Money ” the
doctor in Pascal.” Zola endows most of his
characters with real life, and h*s scenes with real
existence. His French is not elegant, but it is
rich and profuse, abounding in strong similes and
in happy figures. Zola had style, imagination,
sensibility, insight, the true literary power of
description ; and he leaves as his chief work a
scientific sermon under 20 long headings, with
some of the shocking examples ” ridiculously un-
real. The pity of it!
Zola like many other great French writers,
•suffered great hardships in his youth. When
the fever for Fame seizes the young French
writer he abandons everything in her pur-
suit. Thus did Daudet; thus Zola; thus a
score of others whose names will readily
recalßthemseives. It is a splendid apprentice-
snip that of hunger and cold for the young writer
for the men who feel that they must write, and, aban’
doning all else, take up the weighty cross of the
literary aspirant. If they can write, and do not
die as apprentices, they end by writing very
well indeed. But Zola’s early struggles seriously
injured his health, and to the dyspeptic, melan-
choly old-young man, whose “only pleasure in
life was labor, Death was probably welcome
enough. His later works had shown waning
powers; the “triology” of which “Rome’’was
the culmination was generally tiresome, and
showed few of Zola’s brilliant flashes.
Zola’s work-methods were, he tells us himself
laborious:— . ’
My faith has always been that hard work is the first
essential of a book. I am no impressionist. I don’t
beheve m pictures being rapidly dashed off, and I think
that the word impressionism is a cloak for a great deal
of laziness. The creation of a book takes much trouble,
and real actual pains. lam always very sceptical as to
the value of .work produced with the extreme facility
which characterises much of the work of the writers of to-
day. I have always worked hard at each of my books.
.? h . en s^ar k * never have any idea as to
what it is going to be, and the first thing I do is
to prepare an ebauche, or sketch. This I do pen in
hand, because with me ideas only come in writing. It is
* n writing that everything comes to me ; I could never
evolve any ideas by sitting in my chair and thinking. I
write as though I were talking to myself ; discuss the
people, the scenes, the incidents. The ebauche is a sort
of a chatty letter addressed to myself, which often equals
in length the novel which is to spring from it. I then
draw out the plan of the book, the list of characters, and
a most elaborate scenario. Each character and each
scene are then studied in detail, places are visited
characters studied and photographed with the
pen, incidents prepared in detail and staged. It
is only then, having actually written much more than the
novel itself that I set to work to write it. I rarely
transfer anything written during the composition of the
ebauche to the pages of the actual novel, or, at most only
a phrase or expression which may strike me as felicitous
• • *, * ai fl extremely methodical, and 1 believe in careful
scrutiny if the truth is to be reached. Thus, this sheet
of paper before me. If I glance at it hurriedly with the
coup d ml ! of; an impressionist, I see nothing but a blank
surface. But if I scrutinise it, it becomes covered with
things, reflections of my thoughts it may be, or children
of my imagination.
But with all his pains Zola’s works were full of
blunders m regard to scientific facts, in regard to
dates, and so on. The man could not be accurate.
JN oman was less fitted to be a scientist, few men
better equipped to be novelists ; and a twist in
his mind made him sacrifice to a great extent the
powers he had in the chase of the elusive. Fate
has some strange ironies.
A. Little Kay of Sunshine .
|TTn|HE PROTEST is an English expression of
■ xCuskinism m a somewhat new phase. A
band of young men have established them-
, , selves at “The Sign of the Hop-Pole
Crockham Hill, Edenbndge, which is in Kent,
England, and propose to live the Beautiful Life
there after the patterns of'William Morris and
John Ruskin ; to publish a monthly paper called
lhe Protest ; and to issue books “artistically bound
and printed. ’ With much earnestness, the settlers
seem to have a saving sense of humor (which John
Kuskin and William Morris so conspicuously
lacked); but they have also a touch of that English
idea of fun which comes so close to inanity. Still
they threaten to do some good work- There is
at least no diffidence about them. No 1 of The
Protest attacks the Press, the Church, and the
Stage, and with some vigor. An extract:
General Booth and the unspeakable Dowie, represent-
ing the New Idea in commercial religionism, did the
thing on Morgamc lines, and now the Old Birds are
waking up.
The Wesleyans have raised together a million of the
world s Very Best, and about a third of the haul is to be
sunk ui a b'g-bnr'eh.buikling to shelter a host of Officials
and Publications. All this is in the name of the Lowly
Nazarene ; and yet whilst this Big Show is being made
and Star Preachers do themselves well, there are scores
of Patient, Worn Men in Wesleyan Conventicles, up and
down the country, doing 1 grub-work on a Miserable Wage.
After all, Nonconformity is a rope of sand, and before
buildings are erected for the self-advertising Hugh Price
Hugheses to fire off thin squibs of aßeligio-Politico Charac*
ter, the needs of the people should be studied and met.
About all that can be said for this Building Scheme is
that Master Nonconformity will be able to look across
at Master Established Church and say, “I’ve got a Big
Apple, too.”
The whole business is sickening in the light of what
goes on behind the scenes amongst Professional
Religionists, who wangle things on the line of the
American Trust. The only body which appears to be
free from the muck of the mart is the Society of Friends ;
it does a Quiet, Unobtrusive, Solid Work, on Voluntary
Lines, for God and Humanity. It does this without
theatrical show or journalistic puff. '
The “review” columns of The Protest discuss
not books, but foods ; the notices are not “ puffs”
and they have some humor. An advertisement
is worth quoting :
"yyANTED : A cut copy of the Saturday Review.
May the Protesters and their resolution in favor
of “ Unconventional, Truthful and Fearless Ex-
pression with regard to Art, Life and Letters”
prosper.
» ;>
“Carpo”: In recent notices of the elder
Dumas scarcely any attention has been paid to
the prodigious literary deception and plagiarism of
which lie was guilty ; and all these notices have
unreservedly assumed that Dumas himself wrote
“ The Three Musketeers ” and “Monte Christo.”
A long article in Chambers’ Journal of May 24,
’56, founded on M. Querard’s “ Supercheries
Litteraires,” Eugene de Mirecourt’s “Fabrique
de Romans, Maison A. Dumas et Compagnie,”
and M. Chassagnac’s “Alexandre Dumas De-
voile,” effectually exposes the fraud. The follow-
ing extracts will suffice.
Among the numerous writers of the books bearing the
name of Dumas, were M. Mallefille, M. Coualhaie, and M.
Maquet. The'“ Three Musketeers” was written by M.
Maquet. In 1701, Gatien de Courtiltz published
his “ Memoires de M. d’Artagnan,” a romance
founded on real life, and introduced the fic-
titious characters, Athos, Porthos, and Aramis.
Maquet did not even alter the names of the leading
characters—he merely modernised the style of part of
the original Memoires. Dumas never saw the work until
it was printed. As a proof that Dumas did not even edit
the works written for him by Maquet, the latter, to
satisfy a friend, repeated the word “ que " 16 times in five
lines, and the 16 repetitions are still extant in five lines
of the “Three Musketeers.” “Twenty Years After"
and “ The Viscount de Bragelonne " were drawn from the
same prolific source.
The first part of “ Monte Christo ” was written by M.
Fiorentino, the second part by M. Maquet. The story of
Morel is taken from a novel by Arnould, entitled “La
Roue de la Fortune ” ; and two of the horrible tragedies
in the second part are merely copied from the published
archives of the Parisian police. Some French critics
assert that the history of Dantes may be found in an old
German romance. In any case, “ Monte Christo ” was
not written by Dumas.
[But that is only opinion. A long article in
Chambers, founded on French hostile criticism of
Dumas, doesn’t -prove that Dumas didn’t write the
‘‘ Three Musketeers ”or “ Monte Christo.” That
Dumas was a gorgeous robber is a commonplace
that he wrote, or at least re-wrote from material
supplied, the best of the works bearing his name
seems to be generally accepted.]
J*
“H.F.” has this opinion:
Doubtless the poverty of Sydney Art show is accounted
for by the exodus Londonwards of so many artists. And
as we are assured that none but the failures return, the
question arises : are we justified in supporting art schools
to provide fresh recruits for London’s black and white
work*? The local pen and brush market is limited ; every
added competitor helps the glut when the rate of pay is
largely based on the price of German blocks. Many in-
different artists might have made excellent farmers' and
created color schemes true to Nature with a plough and
harrow. They might have exported butter and brought
money into the country, instead of exporting themselves
and leaving a dead loss. Why not leave the support of
art till there is a local demand, and Oppose everv scheme
tending to drive potential butter-makers, and spreaders,
out of the country.
#
Explosion (expurgated) attributed by a London
pressman to Randolph Bedford, but unauthenti-
cated :
This London’s a great place—pulsing, eager, stimulating
in spots, multitudinous, vividly coloured on the Row, an’
all that . . . but, good God 1 what a climate ! Got up
this morning. Out o’ window, impenetrable murk.
Atmosphere nearly felled me. Like trying to breathe
stale slime with toads in it. Worse. Went: down to the
breakfast-room and howled for help. Landlady—bilious
old soul, grotesquely broad in the beam but dashed
genteel—came up snorting. “ Prithee,” said I, “ by every
hair of thy respectable gods, get me fresh air ! ” “Yes-
sir,” said she, an’ blobbed—no other word for it. (Dashed
good word, too ; I made it. Blob ; the nasty bow of a
flabby, respectable female decayed, with a servile soul
and a tendency to emotional religion.) Out she goes on
that quest for fresh air—out into the foetid back yard ;
digs out a chunk or two and brings it to me—in a coal-
scuttle. Fact,
J*
Died the other day, at the age of 87, George
Dalziel, founder of the publishing firm that gave
London its first penny “ comic ” paper—the awful
production called Fun —and followed up the
offence with many similar pictorial atrocities.
The Dalziel firm can at least take credit for having
given W. S. Gilbert a chance. The editor of Fun
accepted the first Bab Ballad after it had been
by Punch. At a dinner-table, admiring
guests were talking Punch to Burnand, and one
of them asked : “ I suppose you get lots of good
things sent in from outside sources?” “O, yes ;
some every week,” said Burnand, complacently.
Gilbert, who was sitting'opposite, snarled, “If I
were you, Burnand, I’d publish some of ’em. ”
<£
“L. 8.,” re Library administration :
At the Sydney Public Library I tried to get Catullus.
Asked one attendant where it was. Referred to another
functionary, who made me fill in a paper—name, age,
occupation, and purpose in reading the book. Told to
take it to another attendant, to whom I was bidden
return the book when finished with. At the Melbourne
Public Library I again had occasion to refer to Catullus,
and found it in Latin, with English and French transla-
tions easily accessible on the shelves. (The French
translation is in verse, by Rostand.) ,
Le Gallienne has an article o*i Madame Heine
i n the Cosmopolitan this August. The Heines’
lln i nTl 90 , TU o« t _ -ry • , , fr e r S
p y s, right to Heine s death. Le
yramenne aeiils sensibly with the fair unknown,
Known as Oamille Selden, ' 5 and called “La
Mouche by Heine. She made his acquaintance
not long before his death, and largely contributed
to his happiness—poor fellow Of course Madame
not bke her, and she did 2
Equally of course, she put something on paper,
the depreciation of Madame Heine. But
Le Gallienne stamps on the idea that “La
Mouche ” could ever have replaced a Madame
Heine, or that she dethroned Madame in the
poet’s mind maaame m tne
It has been said that every man who nowadays
comes to the front in literature or art has at least
a suspicion of Hebrew blood in his veins Which
is ’ Perhaps, the reason why the Savage Club,
Melbourne, doesn’t admit Jews to membership,
not even honorary membership.
n AT . , .
Hume JNlsbet, often claimed as an “Australian
au , t ,r° r ’ , 1S a native of Scotland. It was before
settling down as an art-teacher m Edinburgh that
f l 6 spent some years in Australia, where, later on
i n [^ e again travelled. Nisbet is said to be
responsible for 46 romances, a number of books on
art and travel, and three volumes of verse,
“V.” : Noticed a returned cohentingenter in
Sydney t’other day reading “ Dooley,” and mus-
ing over this:
“ If they’se wan thing I’m prouder iv thin another in
me P asfc said Mr. Dooley, “”t is that, whin me
counthry called me to go to th’ Spanish war, I was out.
{ < /, we me rayspictihiUty an’ me high standin’ among me
k " ow men to th fact, Hinmssy, that where th’ shot an’
Bhell was thickest, I wasn’t there. If I had any childher,
th proudest title iv fame, as Hogan says, I cud hand
down to thim’d be that I niver see th’ shores iv Cubia.
‘ Childher,’ I’d say, ‘ye’er pah-pah’s life was not entirely
frec from crime. He had his triflin’ faults, was something
iv an embezzler, a little iv a safe blower, an’occasionally
a murderer. He dhrank too much, an’bate ye’er poor
mother that now is dead, or wud be if she iver lived. But
wan thing he niver did. He niver took a hand in th’ war
in Cubia. There ar-re no dents on his armor plate.’ I’d
ba '’e Congress sthrike medals f’r th’ absentee hayroes:
‘ To Martin Dooley, for not bein’ prisint at the battle iv
Sandego,’ or, ‘ In recognition iv gallant absence fr’m th’
battle iv Manila. Sweet an’ proper it is to remain at
home f’r a man’s country ! ’ Be Hivins, Hinnissy, if a man’s
brought up before a Judge on a charge iv larceny, th*
Coort says : ‘Anny prevyous convictions?’ ‘No,’says
th ’ polisman. ‘ Five years,’ says th’ Judge. ‘ But he was
a hayro in th’ Cubian war.’ * Make it life,” says th’
Judge."
Whistler, great painter and greater epigram
matist, is ill at The Hague, and his physician’s
bulletin (Julv 22) stated ‘‘that the illnels is dim
*. /. i,* 8 1S dUe
-it anced age, and that the patient s recovery
wld be very slow. Which has something of the
glam buraor Whistler himself.
Botha, Delarey and De Wet are to collaborate
° n a history of the Boer war, from their point of
view.
With agile hand and slim knee
Scrambling up roof and chimney.
“ Smiler ” Hales, with feverish energy, rushes
his books through the London nress One inst
freT-ndeS i P ? V* ’ J *
j ri '” urK ] ( ; d 0,1 Biblical story of Samson
a 'V l Denlan. Males came out of a good Sunday-
school atmosphere in South Australia, but the
surfeit and the repulsion showed when presently,
in his hot youth, he “ took the platform ” in oppo-
aiHnn t-rv "RirlYlol i a
P ’° o lie ? r pa «° n ( and f te , r '
i a , s , q 'of the Barner—the same hard-
| ieaded Scotchman who, m these later days, has
been trying without luck to win Queensland seats
for the Labor side. Hales follows the Samson
romance with a gory yam of M'Gluskey, an im-
possible S’African trooper and scout.
Tn nAOT) T,„ unHnPW -rc,
o Tq . n G CORRESPONDENTS,
bri/kt h J °f yOU think its worth while throwing another
, than any ot the book, you mention ?
Lerii. Swinburne:s article on Dickens was rot: Argus
article on the subject was almost a paraphrase of one
‘ rom London- Daily Chronicle.
Onyx : It is not discussion, but mainly rudeness. The
clothes and the personal appearance of the literary
woman have nothing to do with the case
E.C. : Hardly enough public interest in the personal
domestic dovecot. F


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
SYDNEY.
ITDOUCALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
M‘£>OUGA.IL.L BROS., O Spring Street, Sydney.
AGENTS:
Z. L. &M. A. Co., Ltd., Australia and New Zealand : Strachan, Cheedle & Co., Adelaide; J. B. Curran, Hobart.
Liberal Advances,
Accurate Valuations,
When required.
WOOL
Selling 1 Brokers.
PROMPT
RETURNS A
SPECIALITY.
HARRISON, JONES & DEVLIN, Ltd.
Special Attention to
details.
Weights carefully
taken.
PrinAinale having: over 30 Years
A II Ill#l |JC*I 2> Experience Conduct
All Wool Sales.
Offices and Stores:
Circular Quay,
Sydney.
SKINS
m
Kangaroo,
Wallaby,
Rabbit,
Opossum.
SEND ALL SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY.
The Leading Salesmen. Full Values and Quick Returns.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Cha,rge : 3 Per Cent, -fco th.e drowers
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
TRADE
MARK
FOX Bros. & Co., Ltd., warn the public that their Trade Mark consists
ONLY OF THE WORD FOX
which is a guarantee of soundness of material and quality of dye of all
Worsted Coatings, Serges $ Tweeds
on which it is stamped.
As the result of many years of experience . . .
FOX’S PURE INDIGO DYE
is recognised as the best in the market. All FOX’S Standard Cl®ths are
stamped every two yards on the back—
FOX
PURE INDIGO
and without this stamp are not gamine. These celebrated serges can be
obtained from the leading Tailors and Drapers throughout the Colonies.
FOX BROS & Co., Ltd., WELLINGTON, SOMERSET, England.
'Cant B Beat
Briar Root Pipk/
GuAßft? TEED /
NOT TO /
CRACK /
OR /
BURN/
LATEST*"” MOST
UP TO DATE SHAPES
pp ,cE 1 U
*
Q-m.a-li.-fcy not better in- a. G-uinea Pipe.
Should any of our Celebrated C.8.8V Pipes crack or burn a new one will
be exchanged for it immediately on application.
&6araQt€€.
When Orderinefi Please Mention Shape of Pipe Required.
C. 8.8.
G. 8.8. Pipe, Stealing Silver Mount, 2/6
each.
C. 8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, with Ster-
ling Silver Mount, polished Vulcanite
Mouthpiece, in Morocco Leather
Case, 4/- each.
0.8.8. Meerchaum Pipe, guaranteed
genuine, Sterling Silver Screw, Best
Quality Mouthpiece, Morocco Gold-
linfed Case, 21/- eaeh.
G. 8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, Sterling
Silver Mounted Rhn and Band, in
Morocco ©old-lined Leather Case,
8/6 each.
C. 8.8.
0.8.8. Presentation Companion, con-
taining’. two Silver Mounted, hand-
finished Pipes, Superior Quality
Mouthpieces, Red Moroceo Gold-
lined Case, 15/6 each.
c.b.b:
CANT-B-BEAT
SAFETY RAZOR.
II
l P
or
Particularly Useful
at Sea.
Shaving
with ordinary
razors is not
easy for anybody. I't
takesmonths, yes, yearsof
practice, and few during
the period escape many
and serious cuts. Even
with experience, despite
care, cuts may be inflicted.
Use the
CAN’T-B-BEA T
SAFETY RAZOR
Stoave every morning with
absolute ease, comfort,
and security . . .
PRICE COMPLETE, in Case .. .. ss. 9d.
In Leather Case, with Extra Blade .. Bs. 9d.
EXTRA BLADES 2s. 3d.
Every Razor Guaranteed and Set ready for use.
TOILET REQUISITES—Lowest Price .at . . .
mum
GROUND
Can’t-B-Beat
Razors are manufactured from
the very finest English Razor
Steel, add warranted ground by the most expert
workmen in the worjd.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in ease, J-inch 4s. 9d.
Can’t-B ; Beat Razor, in case, |-inch .. ss. 3d.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, |-ineh .. ss. 9d.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in ea_se, |-inch .. 6s. 3d.
Ban’t-B-Beat Razor, withfivory handle.. 10s. 6d.
Presentation Case—containing Two
Can’t-B-Beat Razors, ivory handles .. 218.
C. Brown & Sons’ Hair-Clippers, 6s each. Victory
Cream Shaving Soap, 3d tablet. Shaving Brushes,
6d, 9d, Is, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 6d, Bs, 8s 6d each.
Strops.
“ The Victory,” 2s each. Cant-B-Beat
Razor Strop, recommended by all the
leading hairdressers, 3s 6d each. Satisfaction
guaranteed or money returned.
MICK SiMMQNS, haymarketTsypnev
ENO’S
HEALTH GIVING
COOLING,
‘FRUIT
REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING.
9
THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT where it has been
taken in the earliest stages of a disease, it has, in
innumerable instances, PREVENTED what would other-
wise have been a SERIOUS ILLNESS.
CAUTION. —See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, ENGL,
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
I I
\ 'i
/• ,
X \
\V
z
mu
s
31do d
yiboj.DiA
iiiiniiUMiii:
S;N
nim
II I HIWI .
AfcJOlltt'Maj.
NV3WIiJOKi
SKS£vS:
gRSN
'/>
Z/ /
' N
\ \
\
///
' 1 1
Vs''
■>//// MM
' *»/. I I I
; \
v i t.;>'
"Hi* TVT r» T.qh cvTi Hvi f!n
Melbourne pfficp—
187E Swanston St.
85 King-st., Sydney.
MEN l HERE’S VITALITY!
To men who are weak and debilitated, not only from the effects of a demand upon the vitality, but from
excessive drugging and dosing, from ruining the most delicate organs of the body with poisonous chemicals ; to men
whose faith in doctors and remedies of all kinds has been destroyed by the failure of every remedy that has been
tried —to all men who are sick of medicines which never cure, we say,
TAKE NO DRUGS ! STOP DOSING YOURSELF !
Nature calls for new strength, and you will never be cured until you supply that strength. We have demon-
strated during the past twenty years of successful application of Electricity for the weaknesses of men that it, and
nothing else, will cure these troubles. It is the only thing on earth that will restore the lost vigor to the merve
centres and organs, and you must use it to be cured.
Dr. MCLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
Makes vigorous, muscular men of the puniest, weakest.specimens of “ half men ” ; it expands and develops every
muscle and organ in the body ; it warms the heart, increases the courage, and gives a man power of mind and body such
as anyupan can be proud of It makes the eye bright'and the step elastic ;it makes an athlete of a sluggard. It cures
disease by-restoring strength It is a quick and lasting cure for all v NERVOUS WEAKNESSES, RHEUMATISM,
WEAK v LUMBAGO, CONSTIPATION, INDIGESTION, VARICOCELE,
AK KIDNEYS, LOSS Oh MEMORY, and all evidences of breaking down. It cures when all else has failed.
MAN AND WIFE CURED.
In 30 jour Belt did me a world of good, and restored
'■•my vitality. My wife wore it for a terrible lame back, and, as
e,very other assistance had failed, I deem your Belt worked a
real miracle. I am pretty .well-known as a Salvationist and
want my friends to know of your grand remedy.
Hlabo, N.S.W. g_ JEWELL.
SEVERE INDIGESTION.
Tub L)r. McLaughlin Co. Korrumburra, Vic.
Sirs,—SineeT have be*;n wearing one of your Electric Belts I
feel quite well, my food.'agrees with' me, and I have no rushing
of sour water to my mouth now, as. formerly ; in fact, I feel
better all over. Since I have had your Electric Bdlt I feel a
new man, and get up in the morning as fresh as a daisy.
Yours very truly, S. C. BRAY.
IMOTICE.
thTbodv- t( frlo T? EE - 11 '“ s , fcrafced Books which show practical methods of applying Electricity .to any part of
FOR SUCH SERVICES We’give you SPECIALISTS’ /tOVirF^nrirt S ' ? We " ' make y Ol , l a PR EE WRITTEN diagnosis. NEVER PAY ANYONE
of ANALYSING a SAMPLE OF YOUR URINE. ' It’sonly a. tranto Don’t be taken down by the QUACK PRETENCE
Call if you can for personal and advTce of rSf ’V ons Y’ then to draw you on.
—Remember, there are no frills attached treatment It is straightforward i,,,.,’ . ," C - " 1,1 convince the most sceptical. Call or write to-day
Hours-!) a.m. to 8.3) p.m. OUR BELTS ARE NEVER SOLD BY OR^CHEMISTS 8 "’ 688 dea lnp that have glven us a treme ndous business.


TERS ALL’S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
NOW OPEN.
Caulfield
Oct. 18.
100,000 Subscribsrs at 5.
To Tattersall,
Please allot me ;
sliares in the above.
Name
Address
elbourne C.
Nov. 4.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To Tattersall,
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
£
Address
• •
• •
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“ TATTERSALL ”) STILL
CONTINUES liis business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend
or acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the appli-
cation and securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please
request Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. doing business with Tasmania.
Drawn doming of the Race
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To Tattersall,
Please allot me .
shares in the above.
Special.
'£
Name
Address.
Melbourne C. Nov. 4.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To Tattersall,
Please allot me
shares in the above.
N ame
Address


Cheapest House In A stralla for EDISON
Phonographs # Records
“BIJOU,” with 6 Records £1 10 0
EDISON “STANDARD,” with 12 Records .. 610 0
EDISON “ HOME,” with 24 Records .. .. 810 0
COMBINATION A 1 “GRAND,” taking both
Large and Small Records, with 12 Records, 6
Concert (sin.) Records and Large Horn .. 10 10 0
EDISON RECORDS, English and American,
per dozen 100
CONCERT (sin.) RECORDS, per dozen.. .. 3 0 0
Send for Splendid New Illustrated Catalogue containing
5000 Selections to choose from. Electric Fans, with
Battery, £5 ; Electric Bike Lamps, 21s ; Flash Lights,
Scarf Pin Lights, 10s 6d ; Vapour Bath Cabinets, 20s; &c.,
Free.
ecoias can be posted to any address. Machines care*
fully packed ana o warded to any part of Australasia.
REEVES & CO.,
KING WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
'l'll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
1 to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
ImA p
The Remit.
CRAIG & AITKEN, N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House. 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
-
If you are young,
you naturally ap-
ipear so.
' If you are old,
why appear so ?
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
will surely restore
color to your gray
hair, and will give
to it all the
wealth and
gloss of ear-
ly life. It
will stop
falling of
the hair
also; and
will keep
the scalp clean and healthy, entirely
free from dandruff.
And it makes the hair grow thick
and' long. This is because it is a hair-
food, giving to the hair just what it
needs to make it grow as nature in-
tended.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
There’s a pleasure in offering to you
such a preparation ; while you will cer-
tainly feel a sense of security in using
something that others have used for
half a century.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
SCND US
YOUR PHOTOGRAPH.
JF you send a Photograph of yourself (or friend) to
Mr. Mark Blow, Crown Studios, Sydney,
he will reproduce from it a very beautiful and
Artistically Finished
Permanent Enlargement
In Black and White, equalling a rich Steel Plate
Engraving, handsomely mounted on an Indian-tinted
Plate, sunk mount, and as good in every way as Enlarge-
ments now being supplied at from 30/- to 50/- each, and
will carefully pack it and send it Carriage Paid to any
address in Australia, Tasmania, or New Zealand for 10/6.
Your Photo. Returned with Order.
a I YEN AWAY
To Advertise our
OSTRICH TIPS,
Post 2/6 Free.
3 Black Tips with Ospreys
A Marvel of Cheapness.
SST'WRITE TO-DAY.
A GIFT for ths LADIES.
Graceful and
becoming for Young
or Old.
Ostrich
Tips.
5/
The Bunch,
Worth 10/6.
TWO VERY SUPERIOR TIPS, wit!
OSP REYS, in Black, White or Cream
Post Free. Send Postal Notes.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Bourke & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
ention The Bulletin.
The Bulletin Story J3ook (price ss.
post-free from The Bulletin office) has been
everywhere hailed as by far the best book of
Australian stories and sketches yet published.
All the best-known Australian writers, for the
last ten years, are represented; and, both for
interest and literary value, the selection is un-
surpassed in this country.*
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Ylattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
■ST/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C. P. (combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand,
_A_-fc Xaowest Current Rates of Interest-
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per cent,
of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker; J. Abbott, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.O. ; F E.Winchcombe, Esq., M.P,
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.A.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10a.
H. Sillier,
130 Sussex-sfc.,
SYDNEY.
itS* Send for a
Catalogue.
Bent Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles.
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £8 108-
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
A
as
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales—
M. RUTTY & GO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaida
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland —
Thos. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Philp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie i Go.,
Launceston
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin & Co.
Dunedin, Wellington
and Ciiristchurc/i.
SSS!
m
f. auuf
REPEATING RIFLES
repeat. They don’t jam, catch, or fail to extract.
In a word, they are the only reliable repeaters.
Winchester rifles are made in all desirable
calibers, weights and styles; and are plain, par-
tially or elaborately ornamented, suiting every
purpose, every pocket-book and every taste.
WINCHESTER AMMUNITION
made for all kinds of shooting in all kinds of guns.
Winchester guns and Winchester ammunition are $
FOR SALE BY ALL IRONMONGERS.
WE STOCK ALL WINCH ESTER GOODS.
IVTLEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd.
ELIZABETH ST., fIELBOURNE ; GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
The Australian Commission Agency Co.
IS IN CONSTANT COMMUNICATION WITH
“TATTERSALL,” care of GEO, ADAMS, HOBART.
Write or call. When writing enclose Offices: 101 SwanstOH St,, Flelbourne.
Addressed Envelope and Stamp.
Absolutely Unique in Quality—*■
<w&
CIGARETTES (Virginia Grade)
No. 999
Of Most High-Class Tobacconists and Stores.
If unobtainable locally, write to
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Merchants, Pitt=st., Sydney.
No. 555
Ifl', 5
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO., 44 Worship Street, London, England.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Spring.
’Tis Spring again,
Miraculously fresh and new—
Washed by the rain
The sky melts into seas of lHue.
Wattles afire
With yellow torches scent the air,
As though a choir
Of angels had been resting there.
The magpie gloats
O’er draughts of this clean atmosphere,
And sprawls out notes
In lubric gurgles bugling clear.
A lulling sound
Of tiny insects near the leaves
And on the ground,
In drowsy dronings sinks and heaves.
Clear clarion calls
Of bird to bird and bell-like chimes,
And bubbling falls
Stressing some wayward water’s rhymes ;
With surging swells
Of forest-murmur like the sea,
And solemn spells
Of silence brief and shadowy;
Then pattering rain
Drifting in loose dissolving linos;
And then ag: in
The sybil sighing of the pines.
The druggish gum
And pungent perfume of the trees,
The breezy hum
And buzzing of blue-flies and bees ;
And everywhere
A buoyancy of boughs and streams
Of bright blue air,
And energy with life that teems.
On yon blue height
I should not be perplexed to see
Some god alight
In daz ding full-blown majesty—
The god of song,
With spring-tide beauty in his face,
Gliding along
In all the pride of youthful grace ; *
And his own Nine
In white robes floating down like fcam
To groves of pine,
Through their dark shades to singing roam;
Till wet with dew
And fragrant with wild odors, they
Climbing the blue
Like gleaming clouds, would soar away.
ARTHUR A. D. BAYLDON.
The Spring Song.
Listen to the song the Master
Made in days of yore ;
Though he sleeps, the mighty music
Lives for evermore.
In its cadence hear we voices—
Voices sweet and low,
Singing how the earth rejoices
In the Spring-tide’s glow.
Shine the leaves in sunlight golden,
Gleam the azure skies,
Honeyed flowers the bees embolden,
Flit the butterflies.
Soft the breezes sigh and quiver,
Birds sing high in air ;
Ripple, ripple, calls the river
From its banks so fair.
Far to Westward lies the ocean,
Silent and at rest,
Not a shadow of emotion
Stirs its silver breast.
On the strand the wavelets brightly
Croon an old refrain,
List their murmur, breathing lightly
“ Spring has come again.”
Still it sings of love and pleasure,
Joy and laughter glad,
Brings of hope a boundless measure,
Leaves no echo sad.
Still the scented breeze is swelling,
Still the birds sing on,
Till come twilight shadows, telling
That the day is gone.
Sinks the sun in crimson splendor,
Night winds gently sigh,
Moonlight, solemn, calm and tender
Floods the quiet sky.
Fainter grows the music, lower
Do the echoes ring ;
So in numbers—softer—slower,
Dies the song of Spring.
S.A.
A.M.B.R.


Begin as
Motorman
New electric roads are being built all the time,
requiring strong, intelligent, reliable
i Young Hen for Motormen.
You might get such a position if you were
fitted for it, and, once in, there’s a chance to
rUe. Our Correspondence Course in Electrical
Engineering teaches you the whole thing. We
teach also Steam and Mechanical Engineering,
Mechanical Drawing, Plumbing, Heating, Ven-
tilating.
Write for information and Handbook “ B."
American School of Correspondence, Boston,
i Mass. Sydney Address : Box 629, C.P.O. ,
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair-Tails, 6s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents/for,the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
r “ Evert Requisite for Saloon Use in Stosk.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia..
OHA.IG- & A.IXKEKT,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
EVERY MAH IS
More or less interested in the curative powers of
ME DIOAT; GALVANISM and the proper method of
applying this wonderful agent. Before purchasing
Electric'Belts or Batteries send for our valuable FREE
BOOK entitled “THE MODERN TREATMENT OF
DISEASE BY ELECTRICITY.” It will tell you what
you ought to know, and may save you time, money'
and disappointment. Address —
ARTHUR HALE & SON,
44 Oastlereagh Street, Sydney.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17sfc. to ICfsfc. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
SEn
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
(Completely overcome Deafness
fc.-md Head Koises, no matter of
bhowjoiig standing. Arethesame
“to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo-n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address— A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE’S
fNLORODYNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLUS,
ASTHMA, BitOUCHITIS
DIARHHCEA, &c -» bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS at
Sept. 28, 1805, says;
" If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
moat generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, 1 should say CfILORODYNE. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
From Life, for Lovers of Art, Beauty, and Chic ;
Carefully Selected Assortments, Cabinets, or
Stereos, with Illustrated Catalogues and Minia-
tures, ' 3s, ss, 10s,--20s. Money Order or Cheque
on London.
English, French, and German Rare Books
Explain wishes and requirements, and full satisfaction
will be obtained.
R. GENNERT, *
89c Faubourg- St., Martin, Paris, France.
■*
London Bankers:
L. and SOUTH WESTERN BANK LTD., Head Office.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored
Four Weeks by the ure of
'i he only Infallible Remedy for MR A .T.Y/7SW.
Used ior a i.uarter of a centurv with mi laratiale.l and
unyr - edeiited success throughout the Wo Id.
Dr. Ricci . i.ssenee of Rife restores Health and Siren ith
to the in" : shattered constitutions, reieiier.iting all the
i.ii I/Ortcilit elements oj the, hitman frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 30s Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
, addressed envelope
Agents for An. & CO., 47 Queen St,
Melhcu na ; Wholes tie Agen’e for New South Males—
F. h. raul.<ing & Co., 1C 0 Ccn.iell St., Sydney.
WOOL PRODUCE. GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
ACT AS SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSIONER SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
r (lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
will be 3s. 9d. po* Bale.
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb ■ 2s. Gd. per Bale.
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
k under ... ... ... ... Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing. Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
BALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
AGENTS FOB. McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIF.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney Clarence Street),
19, 21, 23 King Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES . . .
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pumps, Turbine Fans.
(Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
Messrs. GREENWOOD & BATLEY LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors, Pumps, etc.
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
i, i M Cables, Wires, Tapes, eto.
?
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
cure-alls.
Vigor and Strength
for all who
desire it.
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 1886, has so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your fellow man.
if you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
Seek, tlie Trutb., it coats Wotbing!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, cor. Russell & Collins Sts., Melbourne.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
THE
HMBRACIHB
POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Ohromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
m its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged
“ C ° Vered efiition of this great- work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easv ; is 6d post
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d. ‘
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards ill us
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Jlaria Monk Is 9d
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is. ’
The Art op Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games post 2/6
Love’and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.) Is 3d post
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s'Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor Is
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d i
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, is posted. Camille, Is 3d
Secret History of the Court of England, 1 6 post free
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., is Od posted
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer is 3d
Iron Nf.d Kelly and His Gang (only true history) Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Ciiiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle's Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted
Up-To-Date Comic Keci -er (newest), Is 3d post free.
How TO Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted
Cijevassk’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Budget Song Book, over 300 latest son«s
Is 3d post tree. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d. " ’
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. S appho Is
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biseun Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slidb Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pa<'es
1600 illus. Leather bound, inv price, 15s post paid’
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Blgr Book
Ostslogue post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
Dr. J. W. GIBBS’
. . Electric Massage Rollers .
For use on Face and Body.
For NERVOUS II EARACHES,
NEURALGIA and RHEUMATISM
—a specific. Removes Wrinkles.
Gold, 21/- Silver, 16/-
I’ost Free. Pamphlets Free.
AMERICAN AGENCY C3.VIPANY,
Box 440, G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
So. e Eyes! Blight!
USED 300 YEARS.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
Never fails. Restores Eyelashes .
HAD FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT.”
Ask your Chemist for this little book.
vS»
OA
L \# uS
. A evtf ed
VS f\otv, aTV A C 0^ s
ca^ 01 ’ a ti&
Cow* 8 •tai^° nS *
v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pjrout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
“Don’t shout”
' I hear you. I can heat now
as well as anybody.
•"How?’ Oh. some-
thingnew fhe Wilson
Common-sense Bar-
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can’t see them
they're invisible. 1 wouldn't
know I had them in myself,
only that I hear all right."
\The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
yvorking parts of the
natural ear. Hag no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other de-
vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
CHAIHK». 229-231 Collins St., Help.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBB.
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents tor Australasia.
TRUSSES. English
American and made to order
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
end all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &o.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, (See.
DENYER BROS.. Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST..SYONEY, and at Melbourne.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmatic people whg suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathipg, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMN.IA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault's Cigarettes render tlie respiration
easier; cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GRIM AULT & Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs,
The Old Reliable English Remedy •
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstkk & Truman, of
71 Old Keut Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdhstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.


.«*• 0 «
¥
mi
win
A
:
V,
v' ’•
Nl
•
Nervous Prostration
A Dreadful Period of Suffering;
“Clements Tonic Saved Me."
The Case o! tyrs. E. WEEDEN.
(by a special reporter.)
As great interest was manifested in all
oircles respecting the following subject, a
representative waited on Mrs. Elizabeth
Weeden, of No. 67 Cleveland-street, Rtd-
fern, who is well known in the locality in
which she lives.
“ I am pleased that you have called,”
said Mrs. Weeden, “as it gives me an op-
portunity to let the public know what was
my real position at the time you refer to,
and also to remove any misapprehensions
which might exist in the minds of some of
my neighbours. It appears that the
general assumpti. n was that I had profited
in health by following a cei tain course of
treatment reoonimended by my doctor. No-
thing of the sort was the case, for after
carrying out his instructions for a long-time
my prospects were no br'ghter, so I gave
him up and tried to get relief through the
aid of several medicines which I had seen
advertised in the papers. The> were no
less effective, and as they ail failed to reach
the base of my afflictions I thought I was
never going to have my health back again.”
“ What was the nature of your com-
plaint?” enquired the reporter.
“The doctor-said it was nervous prostra-
tion from which I was suffe'r.ng, and I think
he was right, for I used to tremble as if an
elect r-e at work all through my
body, while the fearsome state of my mind
was most distressing, as I was always
fancying that some terr ble trouble was
hanging over me. If the children were nob
home from school to time I worried mys-elf
with the belief that something had happened
to them, and such anxiety seemed to make
me very irritable and short-tempered. I
was alwa s tired and extremely drowsy,
feeling at 9 o’clock in the morning as if I
could go to bed and sleep all day, such a
th'ng as a desire to get my work done sel-
dom entering my head. Careless and in-
different to everything aroundfrne, my life
was one oontinual misejy. There was a
depressing pain in my head as if a band had
been dra-n tightly over my e.es, before
which 1 ttle dark specks frequently floated,
and sometimes I could scarcely see for a
haziness which appeared in front of me. I
used to imagine I had a touch of ear-ache,
owing to a peculiar sensation 1 ke the sound
of a belP ringing in my ears, while the
shocking headaches I had to endure I shall
never forget. You have no idea how
wre.tched I felt when I had eaten a few
mouthfuls of food. My stomach became
filled with wiiid, from which I suffered great
pain until sour belchiugs came on, when I
felt a 1 ttle easier ; but, iu the meant me,
my chest was proving very troublesome,
with a feeling as if a load of some kind
was going to smother me. Then I com-
menced to feel sick, and before long my
food was retched up again. I had the most
awful pains in my side and shoulders; bub
the maimer in which my heart palpitated
caused me many a fright. If I walked a few
yards my heart fluttered dreadfully, so you
may depend I exerted myself as little as
possible, more especially as I felt faint and
giddy when I moved about. After the least
effort to do a little work I used to collapse,
my feebleness being so mar ked that if I
tried to sweep a room my strength failed so
completely that I felt powerless, even to
the tips of my fingers.”
“ You spoke about feeling so drowsy all
day. How did you pass your nights ?”
“ Well, I was in such a sluggish condition
that I could always sleep, but the strange
part about it was that I never felt rested or
refreshed. This was due, no doubt, to the
fact that I had horrible dreams and night-
mares, which made mo scream out whilst
asleep. The children have often come to
me in the middle of the night, to wake me
up so that my screaming Avould cease, and
bow terrified I was when awakened ! My
mouth was in a nasty state, too, as if I had
been tasting copper, my tongue also being
covered with fur. I thought my akin would
never get white again, it was that yellow,
and I was just about as thin as I could pos-
sibly be. Nobody but those who have had
a similar experience to mine can form the
slightest conception of what mental torture
is involved when pain is endured and all hope
is lost. There was no pleasure in being
alive, but still I clung to what little life was
left, and now you see a different woman al-
together. lam quite well again.”
“ You are very fortunate. But what
made you so ? ”
“ Jt was a medicine called Clements Tonic
which helped me out of my difficulties, and
but for that remedy I do not know what I
would have done. As the doctors and
other medic lies could do me no good it is
only right to say that Clements Tonic saved
me, and I shall always deem it my duty to
make this fact clear to other people. Yes,
it was when I had taken nearly a bottle of
Clements Tonic that I felt warmed and
strengthened, with a good healthy glow
running right through my body, and my
spirits brighter than they had been ever
since my illness began. more
Clements Tonic, that miserable'drowsiness
commenced lo leave me, and as I was al-
ready taking a little food I began to
up strength'. I thought this was splendid
progress, and I was highly elated with
the great success which attended my use
of Clements Tonic—a fact that was borne
out by the abatement of my tortures. My
headaches became so insignificant that I
hardly noticed them ; then they died out
altogether, and I can say the same about
the pains in my side and shoulders. I
was so. thankful to be thus relieved, and
still more encouragement to pei severe with
Clements Tonic came when flatulence was
, remedied and the heaviness was lifted
from my chest. The anxiety- which my
heart had caused by palpitating at every
turn was readily set aside by Clements
Tonic, which seemed to find its way to
every nook aud corner of my internal
organs and root out every particle of
dis'ease which had been left untouched by
previous medicines. 'Jhe sleep which then
came was calm and refreshing, and when
I got up it. was with a clean mouth and
a good appetite for my morning meal,
and also with a feeling of energy which
made it a pleasure to have some work
to do. All this time my nervousness was
becoming less apparent in every way. I
could soon tolerate any noise without
trembling, and my mind was free from all
fears. I recognised how different my life
was, and my grateful thoughts were all
centred on Clements Tonic, which I con-
tinued taking for another week or so:, when
I found m self as well t s ever, with my
complexion clear and my weight regained.”
“ With ytur permission i’ll reproduce
this narrative.”
“ You can publish it in any way you like,
a 9 I’ve only spoken the truth."
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Ei.uabkmi Wredp.n, of 67 Cleveland-street, Red-
fern. in tiie State of New South Wales, Common-
wealth of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely
di clare that I have carefully read the annexed docu-
ment. consisting of four folios, and consecutively
numbered from cne to four, and that it contains and
is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by CleuienLs Tonic ; aud also contains my full per-
mission to publish in anyway my statements—which
I without, receiving any payment;
and I make this soleinu declaration conscientiously
believing tire same lo be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of the Oaths Act, ISUO.
Subscribed ana declared at Red fern, this twenty-
filth day of Match, oue thousand nine hundred
and two, ntfois me,
PATRICK STANLEY, J.P.
(t
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd
Price, 63., Postage Bd., from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL ELECTRIC
COM PAN Y,
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, Melbourne and Sydney.
Sales of Thomson Recording
Wattmeters
Number Sold.
Year.
1894
1895
1896
1897
1898
1899
1900
1901
16,900
23.600
26.600
36,300
54,01)0
80.500
90, ICO
99.500
Adopted by the Victorian Government as
Standard. General Electric Incandescent
Lamps, Motors, Dynamos, and all other
Electric Machinery and Supplies are also
Standard and The Best.
The VOLCANIC
DERATING
MACHINE
a
A Great
Saving
....TO
HOTELKEEPERS,
CAFE PROPRIETORS, etc.
DERATED WATERS of the Highest Quality
produced with the utmost rapidity
WITHOUT SKILLED LABOR.
Absolutely the best and simplest
Machine in the market. Prick
£3O
TUBES CONTAIN 57tbs. GAS.
CYLINDERS CONTAIN lOGals. WATER.
VALVE ACTS AUTOMATICALLY.
Write for Descriptive Pamphlets with Testimonials
from people who have used the Machine for years-
W. JAMES, Proprietor,
Office : 101 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
Depot : 130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
mv hoj: hivh aoos
AUi Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Deeay, Promoting- the 'Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair, if your Hair-ia falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENB.
For ECZEMA,---RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
US' For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & 00.,
Pitt-sfcreet, Sydney.
HOLLAND FOR AI.L DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
CONSULT
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Col I ins-street, MELBOURNE
S. FREEMAN # SONS L!«i^£
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
. . EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR,
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY,
N.S W, Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description ot
SADDLERY ? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spriifg Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. • £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Phaetons (single and double). Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order. HARNESS and' SADDLERY of every des-
cription at very Lowest Prices, Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List, NOT.ICE,—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can, They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
i cent, more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
OUK SI'ECIAIi \o. 2
£8 18/6
ssc
Dolirered at any Wharf ©r
!V.B.W. ’ Rail nays, 4 Station
£lO 10/-


i
If
1
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only and
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
GORDON MARE, Secretary.
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
28 Years in the Establishment.
SOLD
BANSLES
We have a thousand different
Designs in stock, ranging in
price from 15/- to £l5O.
Kindly Send for Catalogue.
Art
Jewellers
&c.
"sO Kmc ST
SydneyJ
Particulars
forwarded
on
application.
M
ISct. BANGLE,
Set with finest quality
Diamond, £5 10s.
Smaller Stone—
-60- 70/- 80/- 90/-
With 3 Diamonds—
£s to £l5
9ct., set with 3 Ruby or
Sapphire Pastes—4o/-
Post Free.
THIS -
BANGLE
I is Solid Gold,
set with
first quality
Garnet,
Amethyst, or
Cairngorm,
and 10 Real
Pearls—£2.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Safeguard
Your
Health
See
that your
Brandy
is
Bottled
in
Cognac.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
t
c
CAMEO
CIGARETTES
---
nn
I®
■ 1
ifc'i.;
II
iri
v'ini
G i'Q
rail
liaEii j
1
s
m
mmi
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff,. 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments maybe
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica
tion to The Manager.
T
ft
fiv
WmHTMAN’S
BEACONSFIELP HOTEL
Beaconsfield Parade, St. Kilda, Melbourne.
FIRST-CLASS ACCOMMODATION for Visitors and Per-
manent Boarders. Situated in the healthiest part of
St. Kilda, facing the sea. Hot and Cold Sea Baths. Fifteen
minutes from Melbourne —tram or train. Reasonable Tariff.
Special terms for families and permanent boarders.
Telephone 65 Windsor Exchange.
A ROYAL LIQUEUR.
PETER F. HEERING, Copenhagen,
CHERRY BRANDY
The King of England; The Royal Danish and Imperial Russian Courts.
SWIFT AND COMPANY, 7 Spring Street, Sydney, Australasian Agents.
MACHINERY
MERCHANTS,
WHOLESALE IRONMONGERS,
And Importers of
Engines, Boilers, Pumps, Wood-
working Machines, Engineers’
Supplies, Blacksmith and
Coachbuilders’ Requisites, Pipes
and Fittings, Boiler Tubes, Cun
Metal and Brassware for Steam
and Water, Household and
Builders’ Ironmongery, Agri-
cultural Implements, Horse
Gears, Chaff Cutters, &c. j
;-h.
m
Mach trt cry Store ..
FFJC.E
ORISBAN
W<o:
A,
Smellie&c
SPgga
Bulk
Store
valleV
[iorth QueemsucHd BrakcH
JewN'sviat
■"ShTSrBS
North Queensland Warehouse:
Stanley & Sturt Sts., Townsvil&e.
New Broad St. House, London, E.C.
! AGENTS IT *-*
ROBEY & CO., Portable
i Steam Engines.
|W. B. HAIGH & CO., Saw-
[ mill Machinery.
, GWYNNE’S Centrifugal Pumps
IPEARN’S Manchester Steam
Pumps.
DUPLEX Steam Pumps.
SCOTT’S Steel Mining Ropes.
FRANK VIAL & SON Leather
Belting.
WAUKEGAN Barb Wire.
PLANET JR. Implements.
AER MOTOR Windmills.
KEROSENE OIL ENGINES.
CIKTM” CIGARETTES
To cigarette smokers, Messrs. W. D. & H. O. Wills (Australia) Ltd.,
beg to announce that their celebrated “Capstan” Cigarettes
are now manufactured in a milder flavour than formerly.
3 d - Per Packet of 10 (Blue packets). Obtainable at all Tobacconists and Storekeepers.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Voii. 23. No. 1182.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1902.
Price 6d.
OBVIOUS.
SANDOW (to meeting of aldermen and other representative citizens at Sydney Town Hall) : “ Of Australians I can only say, from my own observation, that
Australian men have excellent material, and they are one of the finest races I have seen during my travels. But there is a great laxity in
the matter of physical training, and they seem to cultivate their minds at the expense of their bodies.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
* 4 Australia for the A ustralians.”
Printed and Published by WiLLTAM Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
• Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBER)
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly "Y ••• ••• ••• 0 6 6
Notice to Suhttevlbers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Half penny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
€l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition ofl\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, pay able in advance.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to 3 F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the "Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 6000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible, for its preservation or transmission.
To A mateurs in. Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa— Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, 22 Ilout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Cktlon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.
Hong Kong .—Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, ILong
Kong.
China .—Brewer and Co., 31 Wanking Road, Shanghai.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1902.
Irvine’s Victory—A Warning to the
Labor Party.
The Irvine Government has come back in
Victoria with an imposing majority. For
the first time for many years the old Tory
gang is solidly installed in office. Duncan
Gillies - the horribly discredited back-
number of the Boom—has been returned
unopposed at a time when, in the ordinary
course of events, he should be about due to
lose his deposit. Thomas Bent, who should
be as dead politically as Pekah, the son of
Remaliah, is not only returned unopposed,
but he is in office, and, if possible, more
blatant and aggressive than ever before.
Whatever temporary concessions the Irvine
Government may make to democratic senti-
ment, there is no possible doubt that
the tide has turned, for the time at
all events, and that the democratic
policy is going out on the ebb. The
Peacock deficit was the cause of the great
reaction. But for that there would have been
no revival of interest in Duncan Gillies,
and Bent would have remained the same
obscure and grotesque curiosity as before,
and Irvine, and the rest of his following of
public scraps, would have stayed in their old
retirement. And herein there is a special
and most important lesson that the N.S.W.
Labor party would do well to learn. The
thing that has happened in Victoria is liable
to happen in other States in a much worse
form —in fact, it will almost certainly happen
in a much worse form unless precautionary
measures are taken. It is impossible to fix
a date for its happening, but that doesn’t in
the least affect the probability—it might
almost be called the certainty—of the event
itself.
* • * *
Ic must always be remembered that, other
»things being equal, a Tory party is able to
run the Government much more cheaply
than a Democratic party. It can cut down
wages and sweat the State employees, which
no Democratic Government can do. It can
abolish old age pensions, which a Demo-
cratic Government can’t do without ceasing
to be Democratic. It can sell the public
estate wholesale, which is contrary to all
Democratic principles. It can do public
works by contract at the lowest Chinese
wage and the longest Chinese hours, and
save in many other evil and objectionable
w r ays. Given an equally capable financier
on each side, a reactionary Government can
show results in the way of mere grovelling
cheapness such as no Democratic Ministry
can hope for, and in a time of financial
panic, when the party that offers most in
the way of retrenchment and economy
has the best shows the Tory party, with
anything like respectable management, will
always come on top. And just because
such times are becoming frequent, the pros-
pects of the Tory party look better than they
should do. The fact that Duncan Gillies
went under in the long ago on purely financial
questions was solely because Duncan Gillies
was a phenomenally incapable reactionary,
who didn’t know how to use his opportuni-
ties, and whose capacity for staying out in
the wet amounted almost to genius. If he
had added anything like good financial
ability to his bad political principles he
would have been a magnificent success when
the evil days of ’93 came on Victoria.
* • * •
It is for these reasons that the Labor party
ought to be the party with the best financial
policy in Australia. Its policy involves
extra expense, and if it hasn’t extra genius
in the way of meeting that expense, it heaps
ultimate discredit on its own policy, and
makes opportunities for its enemies. Un-
happily it is, in the main, a party with no
definite financial policy at all. The Labor
party in N.S.W. is the most influential com-
bination of its kind in Australia. It is
solely owing to its influence that the old age
pension law was passed, and that beneficent
statute made a serious addition to the State’s
expenditure. It was responsible for con-
siderable additions to the wages of the State
employees, and they also put an extra
strain on the State’s finances. But the
Labor party never offered any suggestion as
to how these extra outlays were to be met ;
apparently it had none to offer, and it didn’t
even realise that anything of the kind w r as
necessary. Though it has held the balance
of power for a good many years, it has never
made solvent finance one of the conditions of
its support. If it had appeared before the
community as a party with a policy by which
N.S.W. could grant old age pensions, and
give decent wages to its employees, and yet
pay its w\ay respectably, it would have
demolished the useful Tory lie that progres-
sive legislation and rotten finance necessarily
go together. Failing that, there will some
day be a panic election in N.S.W. as there
has just been in Victoria, and the Labor
party, being remembered only as a spending
party, is likely to go down badly.
• * * r
A few days ago there was a public
function at which N.S.W.’s wild boom
Government was represented, and at which
it spoke enthusiastically of all the money it
had borrowed, and all the bridges it had
built, and all the garish bubble it had
blown. At that function Labor-member
Edden spoke some solemn words of warning
to present and future N.S.W. Governments,
the effect thereof being that the Government
which preserved and extended Labor legisla-
tion might live, but the one which laid an
injurious hand upon it would surely die.
Such a statement shows a pathetic inability
to realise the real position of affairs. The
N.S.W. Labor party musters about 30 votes
in an Assembly of 125. Even with adult
suffrage it has never secured a commanding
position by its own personal weight. It owes
its power to the split between the old Free-
traders and the old Protectionists, and now
that the fiscal issue has departed out of
State politics, these two parties keep tem-
porarily asunder only by force of habit.
But force of habit can’t be relied upon to keep
them asunder for ever. The bulk of the
leaders on both sides have no real democratic
instincts or sympathies. Carruthers and
Brunker got into the habit of talking pro-
gressive sentiments when the Reid Govern-
ment depended on the Labor vote for its
existence, and they still do it through habit,
or because they want the Labor vote to give
them a new lease of office. Lyne and See
took to having progressive views when, by
reason of the Labor vote, it was necessary to
have progressive views in order to keep their
jobs. But all these people would gladly get
back to their old attitude if a time came
when the Labor vote was no longer essential
to them, and as there is really nothing
tangible to keep See and Carruthers apart
that time may come any day. Therefore
the fabric of progressive legislation in
N.S.W. is mainly balanced on a hair.
* * * *
It only requires a large enough deficit (or
a sudden realisation of the size of the exist-
ing deficit, which is large enough in all
conscience), a panic cry for retrenchment,
and a violent, aggressive, commonplace
politician of the Tommy Bent type to make
use of that cry, and the bulk of the two old
parties would coalesce, leaving the Labor
members in Opposition as a weak minority.
Last financial year the N.S.W. deficit was
fully £1,300,000, but nearly £1,000,000 of
it was disguised by paying for unproductive
works out of loans, and most of the remainder
was covered up by using as revenue the rents
of unpaid-for resumed properties, while the
liabilities that these rents should have
covered were defrayed out of loans. It was
nearly the worst deficit N.S.W. ever had.
If the public had realised the luridness
of the situation, the panic would have
arrived by this time ; it will realise it
just as soon as the British money-lender
takes alarm. Then it only requires the
harmful, needless Bent kind of leader to do
the rest. On the day when retrenchment on a
large scale becomes, by compulsion, a popular
cry, the Labor party will lose most of its fair
weather friends. Then many tilings will
break. Whether old age pensions are among
them will depend wholly on the size of the
trouble.
* * • •
Just now there is a large, mentally-
unfixed section of the community which
approves of old age pensions and of good pay
to public employees, and of many other
things, without having any real opinions on
the subject. It has a hazy impression
that the money comes from somewhere ;
that it isn't necessary to levy any
special taxation to cover these out-
goings ; that the finances are all right in
spite of them, and that somehow the cash
rises spontaneously in the east without much
trouble. When this party falls away in time
of disaster, there will probably be no
majority in favor of old age pensions, and it
is the business of the Labor party to see that
the time of disaster which will cause this great
mass of loose support to fall away, doesn’t
come. The Laborites are making no attempt
intliatdirection. So far, the position isthat the
Federal tariff brings in a lot of revenue while
the people of N.S.W. continue to import
enormously ; and they can go on importing
enormously while they have £5,000,000 to
£7,000,000 a year of loan money with which
to pay for these imports. But that is a
gorgeous state of things which can’t
last. When the public realises that the
money for old age pensions, for the 7s.
a day O’Sullivan wage, and for other
absolutely commendable and beneficent ideas
doesn’t rise spontaneously in the east—when
it comprehends (through the British money-
lender forcibly explaining the fact) that it
must, by reason of the accumulation of
frauds and deficits, either retrench enor-
mously, or levy an enormous amount of new
taxation—then will come the opportunity
and the resurrection and the renewed popu-
larity of the old Tory party, which can show
how to save by the simple process of sweat-
ing and oppressing the other fellow. Then
the bulk of the two old parties will cease to
be democratic because the other thing
will promise to pay best. That is exactly
what has happened in Victoria, and
how far the Victorian reaction will go
remains to be seen. It is what, under
the same circumstances, will happen in
N.S.W. The Labor party, by making no
attempt to keep the finances square, by
having no policy by which the expenditure
which its great ideas require can be honestly
met, by letting things slide, and by lending
its countenance to the accumulation of
shortages which will come on the unthinking
community as a sudden and awful revelation
by and-bye, is preparing the way for the
Tory reaction as fast as it can. And the
utter needlessness of this folly is its most
aggravating feature. N.S.W. can carry out
the Labor policy and can be strictly honest
and solvent at the same time, but the Labor
party apparently doesn’t know, and the See
party certainly doesn’t care, and the
Carruthers party doesn’t matter much.
Ninety Million Acres.
A Bill for establishing the chief public swindle in
all Australia’s history is now before the South
Australian Assembly. Its object is to provide for
the completion of the transcontinental railway to
Port Darwin as a private enterprise on the land-
grant principle. There are, roughly speaking,
1200 miles of line to be built, and the successful
grabber of the concession is to receive a grant of
not more than 75,000 acres for every mile con-
structed. That is to say, he is to receive not more
than Ninety Million Acres, equal to nearly twice
the area of Victoria, or not much short of half the
area of N.S.W., or over five times the area of Tas-
mania, and a great deal more than Maoriland and
Tasmania put together, or Victoria and Tasmania
together ! It wants to be “ spoken slow ”to bring
out the full flavor. For building and retaining
and making all possible profit out of this line it is
proposed that the syndicate should receive not
quite one-twentieth of the Australian continent!!!
It is to be donated about one-fourth of the
decently-watered and fairly-habitable part of this
continent, for that it will select its province near
the coast goes without saying. Good old Ninety
Million Acres !
* * • *
A railway in moderately easy country, as this
is, and with no compensation to pay for land re-
sumption, especially a cheap, shoddy, narrow
gauge line of 3gft., can be built for about £5OOO a
mile. If the land is worth even sixteen pence an
acre when opened up then it is proposed that the
Northern Territory shall pay the whole cost of
construction and still not own the railway ; if the
land is worth 4s. an acre, it is proposed that the
Territory shall pay for the railway three times
over and not own it; if the land is worth Bs. an
acre when opened up, it is proposed that the
Territory shall pay for the railway six times oyer
—and still not own it ! In proposing this bargain,
however, South Australia isn’t quite so lavish as
it looks. The Northern Territory doesn’t belong
to S.A., though S.A. administers that Lost State.
Sooner or later the Territory must be taken overfly
the Commonwealth Government and what remains
of its public lands become Commonwealth pro-
perty. If this great swindle comes to pass, the
Territory, when the Federal Government gets it,
unless theFederalGovernment develops someextra
rapidity of movement, will be only a shell
with all the valuable portion eaten out. South
Australia hopes to make a profit out of being the
terminus of the transcontinental line, while the
Territory, and indirectly the Commonwealth,
stands the loss. And it intends that the syndicate
nightmare shall roost on the Territory’s chest—
not on its own. That is why it is so philosophical
about the proposed throwing away of Ninety
Million Acres.
• ■ * »
If the Bill passes, however, the chances are that
the Federal Government, when it takes over the
Territory, will find there a great land monopoly,
a very much unfinished line, a broken syndi-
cate and a huge lawsuit. For even though
it is proposed to pay the syndicate, in land,
about three or four or six times the value of the
railway, the odds are about two to one, according
to all Australian precedent, that the syndicate
will break up all the same. The ways of such
bodies are peculiar. First of all, some pre-
liminary parties will get the concession. They
will proceed, if they have any kind of luck, to sell
it in London, where all the huge swindles go, for
£500,000 or £1,000,000. The company which
acquires the blessed paper right will proceed to
take palatial offices, and construct a gorgeous
directorate of lordly guinea-pigs, and will send
out enormously costly engineers and officials and
hangers-on to inspect and report. Having raised
the money for these things on debentures, it will
have about £30,000 a year going out in
interest and expenses before a pick is put in
the ground. The shareholders will refuse, as
the Maoriland Midland Railway shareholders
and the Westralian private railway shareholders
did, to put up more than a fraction of the
required capital, and what they do put up won’t
be sufficient to pay for directors’ fees and refresh-
ments at the London office. The actual railway
building will be done with debenture-money
borrowed first at 5 per cent.; then borrowed with
great difficulty at 6 per cent.; then borrowed at a
huge loss at 7 per cent. ; then borrowed at any
price. The co. may even, like the Emu Bay
Railway Co., come to issuing 8 per cent, preference
stock as a device for raising a last feeble
breeze. The work will lag behind, and debenture
interest will accumulate fast while there is nothing
coming in ; and the land-grant will be pawned as
security for the interest; and in course of time
all the co. can borrow will be wanted to pay
interest. Then unless S.A. comes forward with
cash aid, as Westralia did, there will be a collapse,
a default, a useless, unfinished railway rusting
in the wilderness, an immense amount of land
gone and nothing useful to show for it ;
a demand on the part of the debenture-holders
that the State will make good their lost advances
and their arrears of interest in addition to losing
its land ; lawsuits, arbitration, recrimination and
other troubles. A railway co. of this kind, if it
gets on the London market, is really a concern in
which the building of the railway is a secondary
consideration. The primary object is to sell the
concession, to collect directors’ fees, to gamble in
shares, and to make a rise out of tne deben-
ture-holders. The railway itself, or some
pretence of a railway, is more an unavoid-
able evil than anything else. Australia is
covered with the ghosts and recollections of
unsatisfactory private railway companies. Few
remember them now. The Sydney Tramroad
and Railway Co., Hunter River Railway Co.,
Sydney and Goulburn Railway Co., the
Tasmanian Main Line Co., the Mersey and
Deloraine Co. (Tas.): the Hobson’s Bay Co. and
Melbourne and Geelong Co. (Vic.); the Glenelg
Co. in S.A., the Great Southern Co. (which
received 12,000 acres for every mile constructed) in
W.A. ; the Midland Railway Co. in Maoriland
are a few among the dead. Among the living the
Emu Bay Co. (Tas.) and the Midland (W.A.) are
the most conspicuous examples of decay, misery
and bad management.
* * * •
The Transcontinental Co., if it comes to pass,
will (having cadged on the State for assistance
equal to several times the fair cost of the whole
undertaking), of course describe itself proudly as
“private enterprise.” If it succeeds, S.A. will
have given away the Northern Territory, or
practically all the valuable part of it, for the sake
of getting a railway connection with its vanished
asset, and the biggest land monopoly on its record
will be added to Australia’s experience. The
position will be that of the man who made a big
avenue to his house and sold the house to pay for
the avenue; or of the Chinaman who makes a
living by being executed, for a consideration,
in place of a wealthy criminal. If the co.
fails, and, considering the ways of the London
company swindle, the chances are about 10 to 1
that it will fail, it will probably acquire an
area as large as Victoria by way of progress pay-
ments, and then leave a scrap of line and a fearful
stench, and a crowd of debenture-holders calling
S.A. bad names in London, and threatening to
blast its credit there, as the Midland people did in
Maoriland’s case. The only private railways of
any great size which came to completion in Aus-
tralia broke down while in course of construction,
despite their huge land grants, and had to get
cash aid from the State in addition. The
cheekiest private enterprise of the lot persuaded
the State to put up eight-ninths of the capital.
*• * * *
Still, there are compensations. When the
Federal Parliament takes over the Territory it
can kill the syndicate dead with a graduated
land-tax. If it doesn’t take over the Territory it
can still kill the syndicate dead with a graduated
land-tax ; for its powers of taxation are unlimited.
It can make the graduated land-tax 2s. in the £
of capital value on estates over a million acres, if
it feels so inclined. Also, it can discourage the
syndicate with an absentee-tax, a railway-pas-
senger duty, and in many other ways. In fact,
the proposed Ninety Million Acre swindle isn’t
nearly so good as it looks, for there is now a
power behind the Jenkins Government, and
behind the S.A. Parliament, and that power can
break up Jenkins’ iniquity any day. The out-
rageous dimensions of the iniquity make it all
the more likely to be broken up. Ninety Million
Acres!
Concerning’ a Motion of Censure.
It’s the little things that matter in politics. A
Government may with impunity play ducks and
drakes with therevenues with which it is entrusted,
may disgracefully neglect and bungle the adminis-
trative functions which it possesses. But let it
beware of the trifles, the accidental trifles. Should
it give occasion for the valiant politician of the
pot-house to prate magnificently about the “ Con-
stitooshon ”; for the suburban greengrocer to
look vague and mysterious and nod meaningly as
he mutters : “ As 1 said to Mr. Jenkins coming
from the Bible Class ‘it’s very fishy’”; for the
oracle of the street corner to declare: “Oh, these


toffs are all the same, they’re all in the hands
the blooming Jews, and they ’as to do what they’re
told”—then a Cabinet is on the edge of a precipice.
The “Friedman case,” which formed the subject
of a motion of censure in N.S.W. Assembly last
week, was not altogether of that character; there
was certainly created by it a position which
needed defining; but the bulk of the agitation was
fudge, and it mostly arose through artful
appeal to public passion by newspapers whose
tempers, always malignant to the . See
Government for its small bits of virtue,
had been unduly tried by the first payment of
postage on their wares. The See Government lias
refused to assist the Cobdenite agitation against
the Federal Government, and it has refused, with
much rudeness, to be bossed by the Free trade
dailies; and those newspapers, with much
artfulness, much knowledge of the political
game, used the Friedman case as a handy
weapon for its destruction. It was not,
Heaven knows, that an intrinsically better
ground of attack could not have been chosen.
The See Government has been the most wickedly
prodigal for a decade ; it has, in the great Resumed
Area fake, been guilty of a bit of financial jerry-
mandering which puts even the Reid record in
the shade. But on these points the Freetrade
papers never attempted to work up a great
political excitement. Partly, it is fair to con-
clude, because they recognise the difficulty of
stirring the people up to a sense of great wrongs;
partly because they, on the whole, didn’t seriously
disapprove of those misdeeds, and didn’t wish to
incur the responsibility of inciting their party to
claim office on the ground of financial honesty.
Financial honesty isn’t in practical politics in
N.S.W.
**' » *
But in the Friedman case there was a great
opportunity to stir up the wiseacres of the street-
corners, and to lead an assault on the Treasury
benches with no inconvenient programme or
pledges of honesty. Undoubtedly the Free-
trade, free-postage press thought that it
had the Government on the hip. Public
opinion was artfully fanned to an appearance of
great indignation. Desperate appeals were made
to the Labor Party and to the Country Party and
to the Sacred Constitution, and the Daily Tele-
graph confidently brought out from a dusty
pigeon-hole long - disused plans for making a
Cabinet. When it pleased the Labor Party to
impart a little comedy into the position by sitting
as a body with the Opposition, and thus giving a
false hint that it was going against the Govern-
ment, hopes beat high in the Cobden camp. Mr.
John Haynes and Mr. Cohen bethought them-
selves as to what portfolios they would claim. But
it was soon seen that the Labor Party was playing a
cruel joke. Its members had been from the first re-
solute to vote for the Government, not being at all
disposed to play the game of newspapers which
are just now so pronouncedly Tory and anti-
Labor in tone. The Government, on division,
won by 33 votes.
• * * •
Curiously enough, the most effective defence of
the Government, or rather of Attorney-General
Wise, came from members of the Labor Party.
Mr. Holman and Mr. M ‘Gowen contributed the
only really strong speeches on the Cabinet side,
and their contentions were difficult to answer.
From a point of view of constitutional law, the
accused at a criminal trial is put in the hands of a
Judge and jury; all must agree before he can be
convicted. Even one juryman, if convinced of
the accused’s innocence, can fly in the face
of his 11 fellow-jurors and of the Judge, and
make conviction impossible. If the Judge is con-
vinced of an accused’s innocence he can stop the
case and straightly direct the jury to acquit him,
or, on an unexpected and improper verdict of
guilty, can discharge the prisoner, ordering him
to come up for sentence “ when called upon,” he.,
never. In the Friedman case the Judge was con-
vinced —whether rightly or wrongly does not
much matter—of the accused’s innocence. By a
lapse, which was probably an effect of a lack of
nerve due to illness, he neglected to take advant-
age of the. powers which he had, to give effect to
that opinion at the proper time. Immediately
after the trial he repaired his omission by
reporting his belief in Friedman’s inno-
cence to the Minister for Justice. In view
of Judge Rogers’ unblemished record for ability
and for honesty, The Bulletin is not inclined
to criticise harshly his action. Just now
the. work of the District Court Judges is, from
various causes,, very heavy. Judge Rogers,
despite severe indisposition, kept at his work—
his overwork, in fact—and, at a crisis which
rarely happens to a judge, failed to take the pro-
per course. But that is, after all, a trifling
matter—seeing that the error, was immediately
rectified—compared with the inhumanity, the
petulance, and the carelessness which is occasion-
ally shown, by other judges and allowed to pass
without criticism.
* » * *
Still, if there is reason for censure anywhere, it
must be said that the Judge, and not the Minister
for J ustice, is the person on whom it should fall.
It being reported to Mr. Wise that a miscarriage
of justice had taken place and an innocent man
convicted (or even a man about whose guilt there
was grave doubt), he had no option but to exercise
the power which the Constitution gave him to
release the prisoner. There was no reason why
he should have waited an hour or a day or a month
to take that action. The power of release was
properly his; .in view of the maxim of British law
that Judge and jury must agree to convict a
prisoner, the power had to be exercised in this
case. Promptness in doing the right thing does
not make it a wrong thing.
* * » •
There is one unfortunate circumstance in regard
to this Freetrade-press crusade on an issue of
purity in the administration of j ustice. ” Fried-
man was accused of receiving goods, knowing them
to be stolen, from a young employee of a fancy-goods
firm. There is pending the trial of another person
on a charge of receiving from the same employee.
It can hardly be doubted that the chance of this
second accused will be seriously prejudiced by the
violent discussion of the Friedman case. If the
newspapers, whose professions of anxiety for the
purity of justice have been so ardent, were at all
sincere, it would surely have suggested itself to
them to have postponed their dialectics until the
conclusion of the second trial. Of course, a new
Opposition leader must be given a chance to flesh
his sword. But couldn’t an “ issue ” have been
raised over, say, Obelisk Bay ?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Lynching Horror.
The latest American lynching horror has thi s
much Australian interest—that it is a warning to
our country to beware of mixing the black man
and the white, and of cultivating a servile alien
class with which-oar own people cannot mingle on
even terms. It is the existence of the black
element which has led the Southern United
States to become the scorn and loathing and dis-
gust of civilised nations. That region is the only
white man’s country on earth where burning-
alive is still a common and frequent form of
punishment. The fact that it isn’t a. legal
penalty only makes things worse; it is en-
forced without law and without legal trial,
so, instead of legally burning the nigger who
is guilty of certain offences, the innocent
nigger is apt to be burned promiscuously, on
suspicion. Utter disregard of law is added to
utter disregard of decency and humanity. The
cabled report of the latest horror sets forth that
special trains were run to bring crowds to see
the nigger burned, and front seats at the loathsome
iniquity were reserved for ladies think of
marrying one of the front seat ladies of Corinth,
Mississippi! All this is done to preserve the
purity of the white race—burning is the punish-
ment reserved for the nigger who is accused, on
good evidence or otherwise, of an outrage on one
of the women of the dominant raoe. Where the
white and the black man live side by side
and do not inter-marry, the black man often
becomes, if possible, more savage than before,
despite his veneer of civilisation, through re-
sentment created by the scorn of the domi-
nant caste. And the white man becomes an
educated savage through his habit of domination
and intolerance —the habit which has to be culti-
vated if the white race is to be preserved.
Where there is no such feeling, or where it only
exists to a slight extent, the races inter-marry and
create a mongrel community, for which the earth
has no use—a community which has lost the white
man’s possibilities without getting anything in
exchange—such a community as that of the
mulatto element in Hayti, whose extinction would
make the world both cleaner and more hopeful.
There is no country in the world where the white
and the black man live together and make a suc-
cess of life. (India is not a case in point, for its
100,000 British-born inhabitants are, to a great
extent, mere birds of passage.) Australia doesn’t
wish to become a country like Natal, where the
great mass of imported cheap nigger-labor is kept
under by cruelly restrictive legislation. Nor does
it seek to be a replica of the Southern
U.S., where the white race is kept comparatively
free of admixture by a sentiment of loathing and
contempt for the black man, which breaks out in
lyneh-law horrors like that reported from Corinth;
still less does it want to become so utterly
demoralised that it generally approves of such
iniquities. And it has no more desire to become a
mongrel brotherly race of the mulatto description,
with a streak of the Chinaman, and a streak of the
Jap., and a streak of miscellaneous Asia and
Polynesia in its composition. Yet it must needs
choose one of these courses if it admits colored
labor freely—and all the sugar plantations and
pearl fisheries that are, or ever will be, in tropical
Australia are not worth the price.
4,
The Hospitality That Was Shown to
Dobson.
Senator Dobson, the ancient, aristocratic gentle-
man from Tasmania, paid a flying visit to two
sugar plantations at Bundaberg (Queensland),
and spent a day or two looking at the face of the
earth up there, and came back satisfied that
cheap black labor is essential to the existence of
the sugar industry. Brisbane Courier men-
tions that great hospitality was shown to Dobson
at both plantations, and he “ saw the Kanaka at
work cutting and trashing cane.” Of course see-
ingthe Kanaka at workgaveMr. DoBSONno insight
into the possibilities of white labor in the cane-
field. Mr. DoBSONis an elderly, soft-handed gentle-
man from a cold climate, and he doubtless saw
that he would perish at very short notice if he
took to that kind of toil; but as he would perish
quite as quickly in the Charters Towers mines,
or carrying a swag in summer on the Hughenden
road, or hustling in the stoke-hole of a ’Frisco
mail-boat, or waving a pick and shovel in Sydney
about Christmas, or doing any of a thousand
things that white men do, the fact that he couldn’t
stand work in the canefield is no evidence what-
ever. So the case boils down to this: That Mr.
Dobson was hospitably entertained by the sugar-
planter ; that he heard the planter’s side of the
case exclusively; and decided on the strength of
the statements and the “vittles” offered him by
the defendant, without calling plaintiff at all.
The idea of visiting a few of the white laborers,
who could have offered him no larger bribe
in the way of refreshments than a pipe
and some beer, never struck his limited intelli-
gence, just as it, apparently, never struck the
equally limited intelligence of Pastor Bevan,
who also had hospitality shown to him in
the same country. The Tasmanian senator
lacked eyen the sense to keep quiet about
the hospitality that was shown to Senator
Dobson —he came back openly as the judge
who had accepted liquor and entertainment
from the defendant, and had heard defendant’s
case in camera , and given his decision without
hearing the other evidence at all. And if Dobson
was told that a man who conducts a serious
inquiry that way is so utterly devoid of the
judicial mind that his opinions are not worth lis-
tening to —that he is wholly lacking in what is com-
monly called “British fair play,” and is merely
a prejudiced bigot of no account —he would
probably be a surprised and injured Dobson, and
would rise, with the hospitality inside him, to
protest. It is tolerably safe to wager that the per-
sons who showed hospitality to Mr. Dobson never
informed him about that petition addressed to
Premier Philp by the people of Bundaberg, asking
for the removal of the Kanakas from their district
because it was unsafe for any girl or woman to be
out in that town after dark by reason of the mild
and reliable savage. Nor of the various occasions
when Bundaberg, on a Saturday night, has been
practically in a state of siege, with swarms of semi-
intoxicated Kanaka barbarians in possession. Nor
of many other things which the people who showed
hospitality to Dobson would naturally suppress.
Dobson ranks as the unjust Judge who dines with
the rich suitor, and gives him a private verdict at
his own dinner-table (he passes Dobson the wine,
and Dobson passes back the verdict) —as a person
biassed by food and bought (unconsciously, it may
be, but then a Judge shouldn’t be unconscious) by
wines and cigars, and deciding off-hand in favor
of the party who is rich enough to give him these
things. And the other Dobson— the one who
took a share in a billy of tea at a roadside camp,
and heard the worker’s side of the story over a
bit of damper—where is that Dobson ?
More Hospitality Shown to Dobson.
Federal Defence Minister Lyne is going to play
“Pinafore,” by making a tour of the Common-
wealth with a Parliamentary party, in the old
gunboat Protector. If he tries it, he’ll have a
lively time. The Protector has barely accommo-
dation for her officers and crew, and, being like
all gunboats, top-heavy, she is a demon to roll in
a sea-way. The whole proceeding is a silly waste
of public money. It is based on the idea that the
legislators will gather valuable knowledge that
will be of great use to them in a legislative sense,
but more probably it will be a repetition of the
story of the Hospitality that was Shown to
Dobson up at Bundaberg. The people who are
rich enough to entertain the wandering legislators
will take them in, and mollify them with food and
liquor, and fill them with alleged facts about the
urgent need for nigger labor, land-grant railways,
and such like, till their persistent breathing into
the legislative ear sounds like the breathing of
public opinion. So the men who had a pretty
fair idea of the position of things before they
went, will come back with a wholly perverted
one. And very often the mayor and cor-
poration pay for the refreshments with
which the perverting is done by cutting
down the scavengers’ wages. In addition
to which the Legislative party will lose its hat
and its false teeth overboard while it is not feeling
well, and make an undignified show of itself, and
there will be a sordid row about the bill when it
comes back. It would be better and healthier if
it took a knapsack and a pair of thick boots and
a sandwich, and walked 20 miles a day in search
of a Federal capital.
" Slinks.”
A Victorian country forwarding-agent lately put
up a record by sending, in one day, 700 “slinks”
— i.e., the carcases of new-born calves —to the
Melbourne market. This trade has been in exist-
ence for some years, but it is only since the boom
in the dairying industry that it has reached alarm-
ing proportions. Nowadays, so precious is milk,
that practically the whole of the calves born on a
dairy are instantly slaughtered. Even with stock
at present rates it does not pay, in good country,
to rear any but a few selected heifer calves. This
spring, especially, meat is so dear that there is a
keen demand for “slinks,” which bring from 7s.
to 18s. apiece in Melbourne. The calves, in almost
every case, are killed either immediately after
birth or before they are 48 hours old (in no case
are they a week old), so that their flesh is about as
nauseous a “ food ”as can well be imagined. By
the way, a large proportion of the carcases are
forwarded by country shire councillors who
have been screaming against the Factories Act,
but this is a detail. The flesh of the “slink” is
soft, flabby, white, and repulsive, and it would not
sell as joints or steak. It is, therefore, used
chiefly for sausages—German, frankfurter, and
plain. As, used alone, it would not even make up
well for sausages, it is mixed with the flesh of old
cows, aged bulls, and elderly working bullocks.
The writer has before him a circular from a
firm that deals in this dreadful offal, which cir-
cularstates that “there is a good demand for old
bulls, which are readily saleable up to £5 and £6.”
The dairying industry, it may be remarked, is also
responsible for the supply of old bulls. The flesh
of the old bull and the derelict cow is mixed with
thatof the “slink,’’and the result is prime sausages.
There is an inspector in Melbourne who “passes”
or “rejects ” the calves’ carcases ; but, as his only
test is that of weight, the inspector is a farce.
It is alleged, and probably with truth, that un-
born calves drawing the necessary weight (401 b.)
have been taken from the defunct cow and sold in
this manner. A country farmer, going to the
recent Melbourne Show, told the writer that it
was his intention, while in the City of Dreadful
Meat, to live entirely on boiled eggs. An Act
for keeping a close watch on the back door of
premises where food is prepared, if such a thing
could be devised, would do a whole lot of good.
The soft-footed, unclean mysteries that glide in
at these back doors are many and flabby and
wonderful.
Somk strong language from a man in the cow-
spanking country:
In rural Victoria, where they are down on the curse of
over-government, the unorganised local over-government
by council, trust, league, committee and society is a big-
ger and a worse plague. The shire councils do nothing
but pester the Government to construct their roads,
bridges, tanks and weirs, confining their own activities to
clearing a drain or grubbing a stump by Or. Cookie’s
gate. The water trusts contract debts and hand them
over to Government, refusing to carry out any works,
and alternately bullying and objecting when the Depart-
ment withholds or offers assistance. The local agri-
cultural societies, apart from their annual shows,
meet to tell one another that sparrows are
a nuisance, and to worry the Government to make
fresh laws to compel the councils to compel the
people to strew poisoned wheat about. Then the councils
have their municipal association, the trusts have their
“ central united ” trusts, and the agricultural societies
have the Royal Agricultural Society, the Chamber of
Agriculture, and now a new combine of rural producers
from Goulburn Valley. The Department of Agriculture,
by its colleges and its legion of experts and lecturers,
liberally educates the farmer, packs his products, and
ships them to England. Still he is not happy. He is
going to have a convention every .year to get through
more time and talk. Yet these same farmers do not pay
their rates, they demand that the shire shall clean out
the dams, and when the shire can’t, for want of money,
they rarely offer to lend a hand themselves. They call
out for an expensive water scheme which they will not
pay for. The sort of law they need is one that will
compel all local bodies to rate up to at least Is. 6d. in the
£, make them do their own local works out of the pro-
ceeds, create a State Inspector of Roads, Bridges, &c.,
with power to haul up shire councillors before the court
and have them individually fined £lO if these works are
not kept in repair, and an arrangement for fining in the
sum of at least £lOO any shire councillor who asks the
Government for anything.
♦
Tasmanian Legislative-Councillor Crosby, one
of the least progressive of all the non-progressive
Tasmanian politicians, proposes to abolish the
£lOO per year now’ paid to members. This is to
show the public, says the wealthy Crosby, that
WE are the true reformers, WE are not afraid to
retrench ourselves—though a proposal that the
Council, instead of giving up £lBOO a year salary,
should pay £lBOO a year extra land-tax, would drive
that body to insane fury ! The Assembly is, of
course, invited to abolish its salary likewise, by
way of proving its bona-fides. Which would be a
very good bargain for Crosby and Dodery and
Grubb and the rest of the 18 Sacred Glyptodons, as
£lBOO a year would be a dirt-cheap price
to pay for the abolition of Tasmanian’s only
possible hope for progressive legislation. Pay-
ment of members, though only a paltry £lOO a
year, is the fly in the Tasmanian fatman’s oint-
ment, and the Tasmanian Club would probably
be willing to reimburse the Leg. Councillors the
£lBOO on its own. Premier Lewis has not pro-
nounced for or against the proposal of Crosby,
M.L.C. He lias himself given notice of a bill to
“regulate” the payment of members. Said
regulation consists of an elaborate sliding scale,
whereby members will be reimbursed according to
the time they spend in the House and the distance
they have to travel, but the cost is nob to exceed
the same old inadequate £lOO a year. Which
doesn’t seem worth even Lewis’s while bothering
with.
♦
While ruin fell on the Peacookites at the Vic.
election, the Labor party comes back stronger
than before. It used to number 11; it now counts
14. The disorganised Peacock following—the
one-time overwhelming party led by Turner and
Isaacs —only counts 15, and that includes one or
two unpledged Laborists like Trenwith, so the
Eabor party is really stronger than it looks. The
best thing Labor can do now is to constitute itself
the head of the Opposition, instead of the tail, and
widen its platform so as to attract more sup-
porters. It has a definite policy to hold it
together, and a very respectable success to give it
courage. The Peacock remnant has dropped its
baggage. and probably its principles, m the
retreat. Besides, it hadn’t many principles of late.
The return of Irvine, Shiels, Bent, and a few
obscure colleagues whose names the public fails to
remember, to run Victoria on a programme of
reform and economy, is rather an indefinite pro-
ceeding, after all. Leaving the reform tem-
porarily out of the question, and dealing only
with the economy, Irvine’s programme is but a
small instalment to go on with. At the very
most Irvine’s declared ambition doesn’t extend
beyond squaring the finances on paper. Last
year Victoria, so far as information is available,
used about £350,000 of loan money for purely
revenue purposes, and it had a visible deficit
of over £400,000 in addition—total deficit
nearly £BOO,OOO. Even if Irvine acts up
to the letter of his promises, he only pro-
poses to abolish the latter of these two
shortages; the former, it would appear, he cor-
dially approves of. Under Irvine, supposing he
proves to be all he professes to be, Victoria may
still have a shortage of £300,000 or £400,000 a
year, it being merely disguised by charging it to
loans as “permanent and reproductive works,”
though it represents casual temporary matters
which produce nothing. Irvine doesn’t object to
the deficit which is covered up by being charged
to loans—only to the naked or undisguised or nude
shortage. Therefore, even if he does all he under-
takes, there will be almost as much room for an
Economical Party when he is finished as there is
now.
Victorian Employers’ Federation manifesto
(issued just before the late elections and as soon as
it became evident Irvine would have a majority)
reiterated the old, wearisome platitudes about
Factory legislation, with one notable addition.
Summed up, it declared the Federation opposed to
(1) sweating in any description of employment;
(2) wages boards; (3) compulsory arbitration;
(4) preference to unionists ; (5) any restriction on
boys and girls being allowed to earn their living
by working reasonable hours amid sanitary
surroundings. Observe the “ living ” ! Half-a-
crown a week presumably constitutes “aliving”!
So it may be put shortly that the Employers’
Federation objects to sweating, but is also bitterly
opposed to all legislation against sweating. The
“notable addition” above-mentioned in this
manifesto is the statement that “in 1900 a com-
pact was entered into by Parliament and the em-
ployers that the Factories Act should continue in
full force and effect for two years from May Ist,
1900, and thence until the end of the next ensuing
session of Parliament, and no longer .” So the Em-
ployers’ Federation claims that the permanent
abolition of the Factories Act is what Parliament
is pledged to. Before nomination day everybody
urged the immediate re-enactment of the Act;
directly the Government majority was certain
enthusiasm cooled off ; by the time the House
meets the Act’s only real friends in the Assembly
will be the Labor members and Peacock.
4
“Veteran": M.L. Transports’ Commission re-
port states that the troopers on the Orient “ used
disquieting and insulting language, with intent
that it should reach the ears of their officers ; . . .
and, as such was allowed, the moral influence of
the majority of the n.c. officers must have been of
the weakest.” Just so! Condemn first the
privates, and then the sergeants, who were quar-
tered among them on the lower deck, and at their
mercy, unless they could rely on support from the
officers in the saloon. What about them? “Many
officers were new to their duties, strange to one
another, unaccustomed to command and the
habit of discipline, and unable to instruct the n.c.
officers, because they did not and could not know
their own duties.” That’s it in a nutshell. You
can’t respect a man who is ass enough to take up
a highly technical business, for which he has had
no training. The sergeants are said to have been
“ inexperienced,” but, if they had been the most
experienced possible, it would have made no differ-
ence, because they knew better than to chance being
“dealt with” when they could not rely on the
support of their officers. Again: “Major O’Brien
stated that it was impossible to enforce proper
discipline among colonial troops.” If that were
true, it might be a good thing, in one sense, for
Australia; but it is not true. All men can be
disciplined if they are rationally dealt with by
men who know their business ; and the wonder is
that the men on those transports contented them-
selves with using “language” to their ridiculous
officers. Present writer has made four voyages of
three to four months each with British troops,
and he very much doubts whether they would
have submitted as patiently as did the Australians
and Maorilanders to the filth and misery they
endured on the voyage from S’Africa. Discipline
is easy when everyone does his duty.
4
The latest dog-in-the-manger trouble is over the
Victorian Government’s proposal to divert some
of the waters of the Goulburn River for irrigation
purposes. The Goulburn lies wholly in Victorian
territory, but it flows into the Murray, and though
that river forms the boundary between N.S.W,
and Victoria, N.S.W. claims to be its sole owner.
N.S.W. is making practically no use of the
Murray; in the driest seasons it runs to waste
while the country perishes. Still, the N.S.W.
Government not only objects to Victoria using
any part of the wasted river, but it also objects to
Victoria using its own river, the Goulburn. As
almost all the Victorian rivers flow into the
Murray, the N.S.W. claim is, really, that Vic-
toria shall use hardly any of the water in
its territory at all. By the same theory, of
course, Queensland is not to use any of its
southern rivers, for they flow into the Darling and
it also flows through N.S.W. to be wasted in the
sea. New South Wales has let the rivers in its
territory lose themselves uselessly in the sea for
100 years, and at this late hour its Premier now
propounds the theory that not only should these
rivers still lose themselves in the old way, but that
any river in an adjoining State, which runs into
any river which has any part of its course in
N.S.W. must not be utilised. If N.S.W. were
making any serious attempt to utilise the water
John See’s action would be selfish and arrogant
enough, but still understandable. But this
insistence on an alleged right to waste the rivers
of other States as well as those of his own State,
and his demand that other States shall remain a
desert without their loss being anybody else’s gain,
is a lamentable specimen of petty cussedness.
♦ .
A noticeable feature in thereorganisation plansof
Gen. Hutton is aggressiveness of military display.
Dragoons who clank about Melb. streets with
bellicose looks and swaggering gait have of late
become strangely spiky in demeanor, and
civilians are awakening to the fact that if the
elaborate scheme formulated by the flint-visaged


THE LARGEST AND BEST IN THE WORLD I
The Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York
NET FUNDS, January 1, 1902, £71,975,776.
Principal Agency in Australasia; Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
Z. 0. RENNIE, General Manager.
SAWMILL MACHINERY.
BAND or CIRCULAR MILLS, very heavy for
hardwood timber. Complete Outfits of any capa-
city. BAND RESAWS. ENGINES. BOILERS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
PULP MACHINERY. GRIP PULLEYS.
WILLIAM - FLEMING,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
General is carried into effect the resulting “ smell
of metal” will be positively unendurable. Vic-
toria Barracks, which used to be just a plain,
business-like building, now fairly bristles with ex-
cited offensiveness. Gateways are all flanked by
big guns; doorways similarly guarded; brass
carronades (apparently of ancient Chow manu-
facture) gleam here and there amid dark-green
garden foliage, and numerous 6in. shells, painted
white, are placed prominently around to the best
effect. The ordinary citizen who walks along
St. Kilda road and suddenly finds his midriff
menaced at short range by batteries of artillery
projecting right on to the footpath, begins to
think that he’s getting a darn sight too much for
his money.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Town Hall, Melba.
Lyceum “A Million of Money.”
Royal “ Sherlock Holmes.”
Palace “ The Messenger Boy.”
Criterion “ Mrs. Goldstein.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co. —Sandow.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ Charley’s Aunt.”
Her Ma.iesty’s “ The Toreador.”
Theatre Royal “ Peggy Peters.”
Bijou “A Message from Mara.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
- ♦
Melba gives her first Sydney concert in the
Town Hall on Saturday. Any further remarks
would be superfluous. Melba, and the Resurrec-
tion, and a few other things of the same calibre,
don’t require to be propped up by elaborate
comment.
** * *
“ Sherlock Holmes,” commences to find
out things, for the first time in Sydney, at the
Royal, on Saturday night. Sydney is already
supplied with portraits of the great man, in which
he appears as a tall, pale, dispassionate opium-
eater, or impassive morphia-fiend, or speechless
consumer of bhang, in a beautiful top-hat and an
expensive suit. It is an absurd photo., for Sher-
lock couldn’t possibly find out anything in that
hat and the rest of the upholstery. The writer
entertained an idea that when Sherlock was here
he might possibly fill in a little time by tracing
the men with the bad half-crown who murdered
policeman Guilfoyle, but the idea has been aban-
doned. These men have apparently bolted, and it
was a peculiarity of Conan Doyle’s artificial
detective that his criminal hardly ever bolted.
In every case, so far as the writer can remember,
the man that Sherlock was after was so confident
that he stayed in his accustomed haunts till Sher-
lock’s pallid head looked in at the door and Sher-
lock’s carefully-groomed forefinger pointed him
out to justice. If Sherlock’s criminal had gone
and concealed himself in the bush down by
Berowra, the career of the great man, who stayed
at home and wrote a monograph on the peculi-
arities of 140 different kinds of cigar-ash, might
have been different.
** * *
The Bulletin, going to press as usual on
Tuesday night, is unable in this issue to say any-
thing critical in regard to “The Messenger Boy,”
due at Sydney Palace on Wednesday, Oct. 8.
A lack of that spirit of enterprise which marks
some other papers prevents it from describing
what it hasn’t seen. But it is fair to presume that
when this meets the public eye, “ The Messenger
Boy” will be defying all the traditions of his
calling, and be running successfully at the
Palace. The “Boy” has been running for two
years in London, so he has had some practice at
the game. For this production Williamson’s
Musical Comedy Co. will be strengthened by Mr.
Lyding, a tenor who was much thought of when
in Sydney with the World’s Entertainers. Miss
Lillian Digges, Mr. Graham and Miss Rose
Musgrove will also be in the cast.
** * *
The Sydney Criterion authorities have
taken the valuable advice of this paper and filled
out the slight proportions of their musical
comedy with a few more songs and dances, most
important of which are Minnie Hooper’s remarks
concerning the Goblin Man. The genial im-
personator of the genial Mrs. Goldstein, by the
way, is getting his bust done by a local sculptor,
who is a teetotaller and non smoker, and who
wishes to state that, by devoting himself exclu-
sively to one kind of bust, he is able to produce
better work than the man who fritters away his
ability by trying to do two different kinds of bust.
** * *
Sydney Lyceum discontinues its bicycle
drama this week, and on Saturday stages “A
Million of Money,” which the advertisement states
is a “ Brilliant Budget of Sparkling Excitations
but whether a horse, dog, or bike show in other
respects is not as yet stated. This writer hopes
to see again the large and discriminating dog
which refuses to rescue the man with the blemish
on his character.
*m # *
A small and presumably useful organisa-
tion, known as the Smith Empire Company, has
resumed its career of wild hutnor at Sydney
Protestant Hall. The humor consists largely in
one black man shoving the other black man into
the side scenes and a noise being made to indicate
that Sambo had fallen down 144 flights of stairs
and landed with a thud in Tophet. The audience
takes all this in a Christian, not to say somnolent,
spirit. An item, that is rather above the level of
Sambo falling downstairs, is supplied by an indi-
vidual who holds about a dozen chairs on his nose
and gets down amongst the audience to show that
the chairs are genuine. His nose is quite the
ordinary article. As a furniture-removal man
this personage should earn a good income.
** * *
Sydney Town Hall was thronged to hear
the third concert of the Sydney Amateur Orches-
tral Society’s eleventh season. The programme,
as usual, was excellent, and the Mephistophelian
figure of Signor Hazon coruscated grandly at the
visible end of the baton. Sandow’s system isn’t
a circumstance beside that of Hazon. When the
bassoons moan out the anguish of a stricken god
Hazon bends himself double, and writhes with
picturesque grandeur. When the oboes breathe
pathos through the atmosphere Hazon sway 3
languishingly, droopingly, tenderly. When every
instrument is roaring grandly the public eye is
glued to a whirling indistinctness, which the cog-
noscenti affirm to be Hazon’s coat-tails. The gems of
Wednesday night’s performance were Beethoven’s
“Coriolan” op. 62, and Tschaikowsky’s “Sym-
phonic Pathetique ” op. 74. While the dreamy,
sensuous strains of the Russian’s composition were
stealing through the crowded hall, a lady, far
down among the forties, suddenly turned to a
plain, bald-headed man beside her, and, after
beaming at him a moment, bent over and kissed
him just where his front hair should be. Beside
such testimony all criticism pales into nothing-
ness. The music that can make a lady kiss a bald-
headed man in public is the kind that carries one
away. Miss Nora Long sang two selections, and
was overwhelmed with flowers and encores, the
latter of which a right-thinking conductor refused
to allow.
** X *
The “ Hobby Horse,” produced at Sydney
Royal last Friday night by The Players’ Club,
under the direction of Philip Lytton, was the
most cheerful comedy this writer has seen since
the Broughs went away. That The Players are
popular was proved by the packed condition of
the circle and the downstairs premises and the
lowness of much of the evening dress worn.
Society cuts its dress extra low as a sign of
approval. The comedy is a warning to all married
men to allow their wives to have a hobby horse of
their very own, and not demand all the stable
accommodation for the partner’s animal. Spencer
Jermyn is a gentleman addicted to what horse
and dog papers describe as the Sport of
Kings. In Germany a paper which said a thing
like that would be prosecuted for lese
majesti for insinuating that the Kaiser kept
such low company. Young and beautiful Mrs.
Jermyn wishes to create a foundling home, and
crass old Jermyn determines that if there is any
home it shall be one for decayed jockeys. Then
he goes off to Paris on horse business, and in the
meantime his wife comes perilously near to being
hugged by the Rev. Noel Brice through taking
to slum-visiting. But for the fact that Brice is
worn almost to death with the long battle against
disease, insanitary homes, general godlessness,
and, above all, the frightful problem of how to
maintain himself and four little sisters on £l2O a
year, she certainly would be hugged. As it is,
her husband enters the parson’s room at the
psychological moment, and in the clear-up that
follows Jermyn decides that the horse isn’t all he
is cracked up to be, and the young lady decides
the same about philanthropy.
* * • •
As the sweated and worn-out parson who
is too tired to hug the discontented young wife
of a horsey old man, Philip Lytton was a decided
success—if such a failure can be called a success.
He looked the picture of utter sweatedness, and it
seemed safe to wager any sum that he’d collapse
the next minute but one. Mrs. Lytton, with a
graceful manner and voice reminiscent of Mrs.
Brough, made the most desirable young wife that
any silly old racing man ever married, and if this
writer had been Owen Bancroft, who supported
the part of that husband, he’d have thrown the
plot down into the orchestral stalls, refused to go
to Paris, or anywhere else, and have founded
fifteen foundling homes. That Mr. Sancroft stuck
to the plot shows that he is a conscientious person
with a stern sense of duty. There were other
people in the cast who did various things, and did
them more or less well, but they failed to make
any lasting impression beside Bancroft’s magnifi-
cent devotion to duty.
*# * *
Sandow is certainly a marvel of muscular
development, especially as regards the chest,
arms and back; his legs are not so much developed,
but are more symmetrical than his arms; his
barber must have a busy time for the man of
muscle shows no body hair at all—those are first
impressions of Sandow at Sydney Tivoli. He is
interesting rather than amusing, not a good
“ showman ” with his mincing and affected ways ;
to be seen and marvelled at often, but never
likely to win the affection of an audience like
that merry fellow Cinquevalli. The women watch
him with half fear, and seem to be speculating on
him as a husband ; the men regard him with an
envious admiration, for physical strength is still
the most prized of all gifts in this world despite its
civilisation. Sandow is not attractive aesthetically.
He strikes the eye as being top-heavy ; his muscles
above the waist are too abnormally developed.
His is not the true classic type of male strength
shown in the serene, confident, godlike Apollo
Belvidere ; it is rather the decadent, over-stressful
type of Canova’s melodramatic “ Boxers.”
* * » *
The Tivoli does not rely on Sandow alone.
The Wiltons are clever and humorous acro-
bats, and Wallace Brownlow has wisely
dropped the unmelodious Kipling for ballads
which he sings with grace and verve. This
gentleman, who (vide evidence in a recent
Melbourne court case) cherishes the crease of his
pants under his mattress every night, gives Tivoli
singers a needed lesson in deportment; one does
not see him singing at matinees in evening dress.
The Nawns are about the most humorous sketch
artists that the Tivoli has had, and there are other
good items.
** * *
Melba made three more appearances at
Melbourne Town Hall last week, and every time
that captivating artist resumed her duties she
won further adoration from people who had heard
her previously. The “coldness” that has been
charged against Melba begins and ends in a mere
stage mannerism. Her entry upon the platform
is a highly constrained stroll, suggestive of a
magnetised Trilby, or a new Lady Macbeth walk-
ing in her slumber. She might be a martyr
prima donna going to the stake. The mannerism
seems most marked at her first appearances. But
when she sings, Melba adds touches of animation
to her repose, which make her altogether
interesting. In the Ophelia mad scene, from
Thomas’s “Hamlet,” the singing of Melba was
electrical, and at the same Thursday night concert
she gave the “ Addio ” from “La Boheme ” very
beautifully. Her “Caro Nome,” from “Rigo-
letto ” is another particular treat, but as a singer,
pure and simple, she brings nothing to more per-
fection than her rendering of Handel’s “Sweet
Bird.” This is where the value of flautist Griffith
comes in. The anxious little man proves himself
a good and true accompanist in the obligato, and
Melba and the flute blend their notes into one
with fascinating accuracy. The “Sweet Bird”
number was wonderful on the Tuesday night.
Repeated on the Saturday it was even better than
before. And yet Melba doesn’t stand committed
to a flute-like voice, for when she sang Tosti’s
jingling “Serenata” at the first conoert her voice
was harp-like.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal the latest re-appear-
ance of Maggie Moore was inaugurated on
Saturday with some more “ Struck Oil.” A large
audience gave Maggie a warm reception, and
inclined a friendly ear to the oft-told tale.
“Struck Oil” is an institution that dies hard
because it got a healthy start in life years ago, and
has gone along steadily ever since. Also, there is
a deep-rooted respect for “ The Chinese Question ”
on account of its age and many other things—oneof
the things being Maggie Moore’s wild, ruddy head,
whereat John Forde continues to make toast as of
yore. The people gathered around the original Miss
Stofel have mostly been dealing with the same
double bill until they can hardly go wrong in
their parts. J. P. West plays the oily Deacon of
the drama, and the pro-Chinese citizen in the
farce. John Forde plants his legal document
under the hearthstone, and becomes a wanderer,
leaning on an abbreviated clothes-prop, ere he
reverts to the character of the butcner-boy, and
holds the toasting-fork up to nature. Miss
Herrick, Miss Osgood Moore, and Vincent Scully
are there again, and the scenery is quite as usual.
“ Struck Oil ” and the Chow Problem terminate
for the present on Friday. On Saturday there is
to be a first Australian production of “Peggy
Peters,” an eccentric drama devised for Maggie
Moore, who will undertake the heat and burden
of the name-part.
** m *
Frank Thornton and his “Little Ray of
Sunshine ” are getting along only moderately well
at Melb. Princess’s. The “Little Ray” belongs
to the order of farcical comedies which start out
in life with serious intentions and subsequently
abandon themselves to the will of an irresponsible
joker. Australian taste doesn’t run to serio-
comic domestic farce. Next Saturday (11th) our
old friend “Charley’s Aunt” will arrive from
Brazil. Some years have elapsed since the elderly
delusion from the land of nuts paid a visit to
Melbourne, therefore a bare mention of Thorn-
ton’s approaching revival should create a demand
for it, more or less. A huge demand is a difficult
thing to create iust now.
** * *
Her Majesty’s, closed these two nights,
will re-open next Saturday (11th) with William-
son’s Comic Opera Co. in “The Toreador,” for the
first Melbourne time. The advt. promises a gor-
geous production of this latest thing in musical
plays. Also, the tenor will be new, if not gor-
geous, and the angel half of the co. will include
Miss Lulu Evans, a recent arrival.
*# * *
At the Opera House, the Sidney Drews
are playing a chirpy little farce, in which Drew is
a wild, dissipated goat in sheep’s clothing, and
Mrs. Drew is the credulous Angelina, who accepts
him for a lamb. Nothing else in particular hap-
pened at the Opera House last Saturday, but for
Wednesday of this week Cinquevalli was
announced, so the dandy juggler is probably now
appearing till further notice.
** * *
Mrs. G. B. Lewis’ jubilee demonstration,
which happened at Melb. Royal last Friday, had
some interesting points apart from the clever
rejuvenescent acting of Mrs. L., who danced an
irreproachable jubilee jig as Peg Woffington.
“Ingomar,” played wholly by amateurs, and
unseasoned amateurs ac that, was a more than
creditable experiment. With the first and fifth
acts omitted it would have been a pretty little
entertainment, notwithstanding the crude antics of
sundry minor barbarians. The Ingomar (Mr.
Moulton) rose to the occasion in a pair of elevated
Wilson Barrett boots, and a quantity of bogus
muscle, and the result of this small beginner in a
big brawny character was fairly good. Miss Unie
Russel], the dainty, graceful Parthenia, showed to
particular advantage in her little ways of taming
the padded savage ; also, she was spirited enough
when telling him what sort of an inferior race he
belonged to. But the artistic young amateur
lacked, of course, the breadth of style that comes
with professional experience.
## * #
At the Bijou they are reviving “A Mes-
sage from Mars ” for two weeks. Some changes
in the cast have not added new force to the
fabulous reformation of Parker, and, on the
other hand, they haven’t detracted from the
comedy’s cheerful moral character. Gregan
M‘Mahon, as Parker, gets through his nightmare
on the same lines that Herbert Ross laid
down, and Miss Winifred Austin is at least
more domesticated-looking than the previous
Minnie. Hawtrey’s husky tramp improves on
acquaintance. The brown peculiar person from
planet Mars has not changed his elocution or
shaken off his air of depression since last year,
but Aunt Martha, as Mrs. Lewis plays her, is
now a genial relative who doesn’t threaten to give
Parker a hard time when he’s married—presuming
that Parker ever gets married. Judging from
his reckless philanthropy in the last act, Parker
will soon be a stone-broke bachelor, despised and
rejected of Minnie. In which case, Dicey—
polite beast, Dicey—will secure the rites and
privileges appertaining to Minnie aforesaid.
** * *
The opera company, at Adelaide Royal,
finds itself too big and strong for the ordinary
opera to contain it. In “ Dorothy,” Carrie Moore
and Lulu Evans stood out, also Lyding, the tenor
with the appearance of a stout cherub and the
speaking voice of Wilson Barrett. His place was
taken by Reginald Roberts, a fine tenor from
London (by way of the U.S., where he stayed
several years, and acquired the indispensable
American accent). Florence Young had a good
show at last as Dorothy Bantam, and Maud
Chet wynd her first real chanceof the season. Lauri,
of course, revelled in the part of Lurcher, and Thor-
ley’s splendid voice warbled the trouble of the can-
did lover who really can not Wait till To-morrow.
The other leading girl was given to Celia Ghiloni;
similarly, Belle Gross came out as the Fairy
Queen in “lolanthe,” which was revived for three
nights. At present “ The Toreador ”is making a
first Australian appearance, with along and strong
caste. It is the present success of the London
Gaiety, and is one of the modern bustling pieces
in which Lauri has to go somewhere and be mis-
taken for something. In this case he goes to
Spain, and being at once taken for a bull-fighter
has to act accordingly. Meanwhile “ Sweet Nell ”
is being played at the Tivoli, till the Royal is
available. Adelaide is never a good place for re-
vivals, and does not take kindly to 5, 3 and 1
prices at the Tivoli. The small l v use accommo-
dates the play wonderfully well, though the stair-
case in the last act has to be left out. The acting
is excellent, chief grievance being that the wicked
judge shows a tendency to broaden his effects in
the direction of melodrama.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The decision of the Australian House of Repre-
sentatives to have no £500,000 loan this year is good—but
it might be a considerable deal better. The Federal
authority is permitted to retain for its own use one-fourth
of the tariff revenue, and as it has never yet appropriated
anything like that amount it can construct the £500,000
worth of proposed works out of revenue without over-
stepping its allowance. It required no effort or sacrifice
on the part of the Federal representatives, therefore, to
abjure borrowing in this case; the State Governments,
which will get back much less than they expected, will
have to make the effort and to do the swearing. The
proceeding is perfectly honest and perfectly lawful, but the
fact of the House of Representatives being ready to abjure
borrowing when it can be done without any effort is, un-
fortunately, no proof that it will do so when that most
commendable action involves hustling round for new
taxes and new sources of revenue. When the Common-
wealth has paid the States for buildings and works taken
over, by assuming a corresponding amount of the State
debts, its finances will not go so easily. Later on, when
it takes over the railways and the work of railway con-
struction, they will be still more difficult. It is pleasing
to know that the House refuses to borrow when the
virtue costs it nothing, for there are plenty of people who
would rather pay to be allowed to sin than do the right
thing gratis. And Australia hopes against hope that
it will maintain the same attitude, even when doing
the right thing becomes a tough, spiky, up-hill virtue,
and involves unpopular taxation, and other struggles
and drawbacks.
» * * *
The Maoriland State Fire Insurance Bill is,
according to latest intelligence, to be dropped once more.
Maoriland has successfully tackled State life assurance,
accident insurance, banking, mortgage business and
trustee business, but the fire insurance idea, which is a
legitimate extension of this policy, hangs fire persistently.
• » « *
The Federal Government hopes, next year, to
arrange a scheme for taking over the old State' loans as
they fall due, and converting them into a uniform Federal
stock. It is a pity that an effort was not made to arrange
a small matter like that this year. It is quite a small
matter. There is no immediate need to arrange for any
general taking over and consolidating of the debts. Ail
that is required is a short Act authorising the Common-
wealth to take over each State loan as it falls due ; to
issue in its stead a uniform Federal stock fixed for (say)
25 years and thereafter redeemable at the option of the
Commonwealth only, said stock to carry a small sinking
fund ; and to deduct from each State’s share
of the surplus, the interest, sinking fund and
charges of administration on its share of the Federal
stock. The Braddon Blot clause gives full power for this
deduction. Until the amount of the loans taken over
from any one State becomes so large as to absorb its full
share of the customs and excise revenue the question of
a general taking over of the debts can stand—though it
certainly shouldn’t stand.
Every old loan which is renewed by the States
now on their own credit involves a heavy loss, for the
States’ credit is distinctly bad. The Commonwealth,
with no debt, with the first call on the customs and
excise revenue as security, and with a uniform and f here-
fore more saleable stock to offer, could certainly renew
much more cheaply, especially if it created a sinking
fund as proof of its fixed intention to repay. In all
probability it could borrow so much more cheaply that
the amount of a small but useful sinking fund would be
all saved in reduced interest, and the States would begin
paying off their debts without a penny of extra cost.
Already, by delay, the chance of renewing £2,660,441 of
State loans at a cheaper rate has been lost. The new
delay will sacrifice the chance of renewing at a cheaper
rate £1,543,994 which falls due in 1903. The following
are the State debts which fall due in the next few years,
not reckoning small short-dated loans which are difficult
to trace :
1903 .. £1,543,994 1914 .. £835,000
1904 .. 6,627,340 1915 .. 11,763,800
1905 .. 3,196,186 1916 .. 9,033,880
1906 .. 1,307,627 1917 .. 6,692,772
1907 .. 5,062,500 1918 .. 14,300,600
1908 .. 7,185,415 1919 .. 4,246,050
1909 .. 3,647,166 1920 .. 6,636,300
1910 .. 4,021,700 1921 .. 5,555,563
1911 .. 3,201,318 1923 .. 7,000,000
1912 .. 6,781,752 1924 .. 31,323,199
1913 .. 6,806,245
If the Federal Government, by keeping its credit clean
and indulging in no extravagances of its own, could
borrow at even 2s. 6d. per cent, less interest than the
average rate paid by the States, it would, by 1924, be
saving close on £200,000 a year. And it would probably
save ss. per cent, or more. But by applying 10s. or
55., or even 2s. 6d., per cent, to a sinking fund, it would
never need to re-issue any of these loans in full, but
would always be able to pay off a small portion out of
the fund. There is a splendid opportunity here for a
courageous financier, and it is a pity the Federal Govern-
ment should loaf as it does over this important matter.
• • * *
The Universal Land and Deposit Bank,
Limited (Sydney) still prospers, though in some ways its
balance-sheet is even more remarkable than usual this
time :
Added Visible
Net Dividends. to Re-
Profits. Reserves, serves
June, 1895.. £794 Nil £794 £4,561
Dec., 1895.. 500 Nil 600 5,061
Loss.
June, 1896,. 725 Nil 4,336
Dec., 1896.. 660 Nil 3,676
Profit.
June, 1897.. 119 Nil 119 3,795
Dec., 1897.. 2 Nil 2 3,797
1898(Year).. 1 18 per cent. «= £1,237 2,561
June, 1899.. 506 Nil 506 3,067
Dec., 1899. . 510 6 per cent. 204 306 3,373
June, 1900.. 616 3 „ „ 102 514 3,887
Dec., 1900.. 641 4 „ „ 136 605 4,392
June, 1901.. 653 40J „ „ 1,372 3,673
Dec., 1901.. 659 76* „ „ 2,610 1,722
June, 1902.. 758 6 „ „ 201 557 2,279
Unexplained addition to reserves .. .. 3,714 5,993
The last line refers to the fact that there has suddenly
arisen in the balance-sheet, from no visible source, a new
reserve, “ Contingent account to provide against land
sold on extended payment, £3714.” Presumably this
must have existed before in the shape of an inner re-
serve, but its sudden and unexplained coming to the sur-
face disturbs the continuity of things. In former times
this co. used to take sums to cover depreciation from a
Forfeited Lands account, which never appeared in the
balance-sheet and the amount of which was never ex-
plained. This is very sloppy and hap-hazard accountancy.
The Universal Land and Deposit Bank has
had an overdraft continuously since 1898. It was
then £615 ; it is now over £l7OO, after deducting credit
balances. This isn’t a healthy state of things for a con-
cern which announces such gorgeous occasional bonuses.
The paid-up capital is £6825, and the overdraft, mort-
gages and deposits amount to ovef £25,000, and of liquid


Some C.T. records: Queen Cross Reef div.—
the largest out of profits for the period covered; Day
Dawn Con.—a level 9xB driven 110 ft. in a fortnight in
hard granite; No. 2 S.E. Day Dawn has made 153 calls,
all of which have been paid by several of the share*
holders.
* * • •
Charters Towers returns for September: 19,614
‘tons, 19,2690 z., £46,000 divs., £BOOO calls. Gympie
figures : 12,590 tons, 11,2310 z., £37,500 divs.
» * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-streeb, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ’’ (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject toinspection. Cable address: “Option,"
Melbourne.*
• * * •
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
» » * •
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-street, Melbourne,
having returned from his visit to England, is now pre-
pared to purchase approved Mines and Mining Properties
situated in any part of Australasia requiring Capital for
Development and Machinery. Only genuine and
legitimate ventures, capable of bearing the strictest
examinations, will be entertained.*
* * » *
Many doubtful claims have been advanced oil
behalf of duplex pumps. Some makers state that their
duplex pumps are “ double the capacity of single pumps
of same diameter and stroke.” An A. S. Cameron single-
acting pump can be run safely and comfortably at a speed
that would knock a duplex pump to pieces. But even at
a low speed, duplex pumps seldom attain even their
theoretical capacities, and the reason for this can be
readily explained. Apply to the Agents, Messrs. W. and
J. Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, for
further particulars. The A. S. Cameron pumps are noted
for their simplicity, durability, and absence of outside
valve gear.*
* * • *
A revolution in smelting furnaces seems pro-
bable. The aid of gasoline has not been recognised.
Ernest de Beer, 439 Bourke-street, Melbourne, supplies
forms to suit assayers, which are marvellous in their
efficiency.*
* * * *
The Insurance Journal, London, writes of the
Colonial Mutual Society’s latest report:—“ The results
for the year are all round very gratifying, showing that
the old business has been well maintained, the new
business largely increased, the funds materially
strengthened and the rate of interest earned higher.”*
* » * »
Mine Managers, Engineers, &c., will learn with
interest that the Dunlop Rubber Mills, Melbourne,
are now prepared to quote prices and submit samples of
Suction, Drill, or Air Hose, Packing, Valves, etc. of the
highest quality at prices previously unobtainable in
Australasia. Depots in all States. Correspondence
invited.*
* • • •
New patents of great importance have lately
been granted to the Wilfley Ore Concentrator Syndicate.
Limited, and all Wilfley tables after this date will embody
same. The Austral Otis Company, of South Melbourne,
who are the sole Australasian manufacturers, are now
building the new pattern, which are considerably
stronger than the old pattern. Improvements have
been made in the head motion, which is stronger and
simpler, the working table is now mounted on an
intermediate frame, with wedge adjustments at either
side so arranged that the movement of the adjusting
lever raises one side and lowers the other at the same
time. The table top can now either be laid quite flat or
inclined at a very considerable angle. Further improve-
ments have been made in the feed distributing box and
wash water launder, and also in the middlings launder
and elevator wheel; these improvements increase the
capacity of the table, and the concentrating work is more
efficient.*
• • * •
Complaints of stagnation in the engineering
trade are as rife as ever, but, judging by the large stock
of Refrigerating and Ice-making machinery now at the
engineering works of Mephan Ferguson, Melbourne, he
must expect to do a large business in these machines
during the coming summer season. The prices for all
sizes have been greatly reduced, and purchasers are
invited to inspect and test these Refrigerators before
purchasing. This firm has also introduced up-to-date
machinery for manufacturing bolts and nuts, rivets, dog
spikes and every discription of ironwork.*
« * *
The best investment in Australia is buying land
at Esperance, Western Australia, the natural port of the
Kalgoorlie goldfields. With a railway, Esperance will
become one of our busiest ports, as the trade with the
goldfields will pass through it. A permanent survey is
now being made. The railway is a certainty. Get in
early and make a fortune by purchasing a few blocks
before the great rush sets in. Price, £2O block; terms,
£1 a month. Write for plans and particulars to The
Perth Land Company, 101 Swanston-street, Melbourne.*
• * * m
About the best Brand for Sheep now in the
market is Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and
is considerably cheaper than any other. It will dissolve
in the scour, and should certainly be used by those who
hope to get a good price for their wool. E. Rich and Co.,
Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
*.* * •
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£494,910 is invested in the States. Lowest rates and
prompt settlements.*
-'’ * *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and 06., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
nowready. Price ls.Ud-, post free.*
» * * *
The Nambrook (Vic.) estate was lately pur-
chased by a shindykit and cut up into 70 dairy farms,
ranging from 3000 to 140 acres. Every block has been
sold, and the blessed shindykit clears about £25,000 on
its untaxed land deal. Which suggests that the alleged
“depression” in Victoria is mostly a myth, and, for the
rest, easily curable. Here was an instance of a little
crowd of Gippsland settlers longing for a chance to get
hold of bits of good land. When the property was for
sale it was snapped up by a collective middleman. Call
the bloodsucking interloper Foreign Capital, which is as
it may, or may not, be. Foreign Capital captures
£25,000 by the simple device of retailing its land almost
immediately to the buyers. A respectable land-tax would
compel the sale and sub-division of many such estates as
Nambrook, and the Victorian Government would not
need to let a syndicate come in and grab the unearned
increment every time.
TRAMWAYS. tramways.
The Central Mining* & Tramway Appliances Proprietary, Ltd.,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material
Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p.
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE delude Rails and Accessories, Steel
Sleepers, Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping’Trucks,'Steel Wheels, &c. Technical
advice gratuitously rendered. Flying and Eermanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated
Catalogues and Photographic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different
parts of the World, upon application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
INSURE
WITH
THE
PHCENiX
Assurance
Company
Limited.
annual Premium Income exceeds £1,500,000. -Losses
Paid, £26,000,000. The PHCENIX covers (£102,000,000)
one-tenth of London’s Fire Insurances. The PHCENIX
is the largest purely Fire Company in the world. The
PHCENIX Policy for £3,474,030, on which premium of
£33,821 is annually paid, is the largest Policy ever issued
by any Company. Cash Bonus of 10 per cent, allowed off
all Premiums. Applications for Agencies invited.
WILLIAM N. FARMER, Manager, 17 Bond St., Sydney.
SWEET SLICED MANGO
“SUN BRAND” INDIAN CHUTNEY
Quarts and Pints, obtainable from all reputable '
Grocers and Storekeepers throughout the Com- .
monwealth of Australia and New Zealand.
Insist on getting - - «« SUN BRAND.**
assets—the kind that are available in a time of panic—
there are practically none. There should be an emphatic
swearing-off from large dividends till the overdraft, at
all events, is cleared off, and the co. has some cash or
liquid securities as a reserve against deposits, and till
things are less top-heavy otherwise.
* * * *
So far as this year has gone, it is not the record
bad year in the N.S.W. sheep industry. Starting from
the top of the boom we get these results :
S NS P W a Increase. Decrease.
1891 «. 61,83i,4i6
1892 .. 68,080,114 8,751,302
1893 .. 66,980,688 1,099,426
1894 .. 66.977,270 3,418
1895 ... 47,617,687 9,359,583
1896 .. 48,318,790 701,103
1897 .. 43,952,897 4,365,893
1898 .. 41,241,004 2,711,893
1899 .. 36,213,514 6,027,490
1900 .. 40,020,506 3,806,992
1901 .. 41,857,099 1,836,593
1902 .. 33,715,819 8,141,280
So far as things have gone the figures for 1902 don’t
promise to be so bad as those for 1895. And 1902 comes
after two years of increase ; 1895 was preceded by two
years of decrease.
• • • *
The rumor that Premier Barton had been talk-
ing loosely in England about taking over one or two
existing Australian banks and creating out of them a
Commonwealth Bank, which would be something like the
Bank of England and perform the same functions, still
lacks corroboration, and until the Premier returns it will
probably continue to do so. It seems to be taken for
granted, however, that if anything of the kind should be
contemplated, it would naturally be a case of taking over
some solid old private institution, and converting it into
a State Bank. The Bulletin suggests that the very
reverse process should be adopted. Australia is
littered over with banking ruins, insolvent or semi-
insolvent, whose existence helps to bring the country
into discredit. This paper’s idea is that the best way to
create a State Bank would be to take over and amalga-
mate three or four of these luckless and half-perished
institutions. The Commonwealth would get them very
cheaply, and probably even then it would find that it had
a pretty large deficit to start with. But with Government
supervision, the economy that would come of having one
management instead of three or four, and the profits of
the Government’s business, the deficit would soon be
made up, and after that good results could be looked for.
And this proceeding would remove some institutions,
which are a blot on the country, which damage business
because the possibility of their fall is a source of con-
tinued uneasiness, and which bring Australia into dis-
repute. The Government* by its credit and by the
■economy which comes of concentration of management,
■could pull the ruins through when they can’t pull them-
selves through. Anyone can guess, in a single try, the
'names of four banks whose obliteration in this way would
make Australia feel certainly none the worse, and two
'more might, perhaps, be guessed without much effort.
* • * •
The Launceston Gas Co. (Launceston, Tas-
imania) shows up in recent times as follows :
Net Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
June, 1899 ..£1270 4 p.c. = £lOOO £270 £4960
Dec., 1899 .. 1313 4 „ „ 1000 313 5273
June, 1900 .. 1153 4 „ 1000 153 5426
Dec., 1900 .. 1202 4 „ „ 1000 202 5628
June, 1901 .. 934 4 „ „ 1000 5562
Dec., 1901 .. 1109 4 „ „ 1000 109 5671
June, 1902 .. 1097 4 „ „ 1000 97 5768
The Launceston Gas 00. never seems to strike the boom
which has fallen to the lot of other institutions in the
same line of business.
» * • •
Insurance: Would prefer the A.M.P. The
‘other offices are quite as safe, but the A.M.P. spends so
much less in working expenses that it is able to give
better bonuses.
• * m ■*
The Commonwealth post and telegraph office is
1 expected to show a deficit of £139,826 this year, made up
-as follows:
Profit. Loss.
’Victoria £10,784 Tasmania £14,791
S.A. 7,060 Westralia 34,378
Loss. Queensland 105,384
N.S.W. 3,117
* * * *
A rumor is current in Maoriland that Seddon,
'while in London, endeavored to raise a new loan, and
'failed. Acting-Premier Ward has denied this ; neverthe-
less! it is freely stated that Seddon did make inquiries
' about a loan, but found the time was not opportune. It
1 now appears that the Government, being hard pressed,
■decided to meet its necessities by borrowing locally.
'Money is being raised on short-dated debentures, repay-
able in 1906. Joseph Ward stated that the Government
'would not give more than 34 per cent., but it has had
'to give 4 per cent. The whole matter was kept very
‘ quiet, but it has leaked out that the A.M.P. Society is
‘ one of the principal lenders.
* • • *
A small legal trouble has arisen in Melbourne
'by reason of plaintiff seeking to be relieved of all respon-
sibility as a shareholder in an egg-preserving co., called
Australian Eggs, Limited. Why not Hen, Limited ?
« * • *
The Deniliquin-Moama (N.S.W.) privately-
•owned railway pays pretty regularly 4 per cent, divi-
■dends, and as the Victorian and N.S.W. State lines don’t
yield so much, the fact is occasionally blared abroad as
•one of the obvious advantages of private enterprise. The
•explanation whereof can be found in the following record
‘of the cost of sending a little over 74 tons of fodder some
•distance over the Victorian State line to Echuca, and
•thence a distance over the private line (The Bulletin has
•corroborative documents before it) :
Charge. ohar ?, e
6 per mile.
Victorian State line (117 miles)..£3 10 7
Less 33£ p.c. discount ... ..136
£2 7 1 barely sd.
D. and M. Co. private line
(16 miles) £2 5 5 2s. lOd.
And the Victorian State line supplied the truck which
carried the produce the whole way, the private co. being,
apparently, short of crawling stock. The 334 per cent.’
discount shown above is a special reduction on feed for
starving stock—without that special reduction the State
Government’s rate would be 7£d. per mile for 74 tons
consignment, or Id. per ton per mile. That is to say, the
discount is the reduction which the Victorian Govern-
ment makes to the distressed N.S.W. pastoralist. The
private co. makes no reduction to the distressed pas-
toralists of its own State ; also the private co. consists
largely of squatters who refuse to make any reduction to
distressed members of their own class. Yet the squatter
class, which thus exacts its cwt. of flesh to the bitter end
when it goes in for railway ownership, is angry because
the State Railway Departments, which only exacted a
pound of flesh even in the best times, don’t make a larger
reduction in that pound than they do. There are people
who clamor for private railways and for the sale or
leasing of State lines. They deserve to get it.
* * * *
Money-lender Cohen, M.P., who succeeded
“Kissy ” Ware as Mayor of Adelaide, found the Council
with a debit balance of £6OOO while the estimates for the
current year (ending on Nov. 30) showed an expected
deficit of £12,000. “ That isn’t the way to finance,” said
the man who knew all about it. He held over the pay-
ment of a debt of £4OOO (but reduced the interest payable
from 5 and 6 per cent, to a uniform 34 per cent.), per-
suaded the citizens to submit to another twopenny rate
and cut down public works by £4OOO, so that the year
will end with a debit of only £6OO, which means that
£5400 of hi* predecessor’s deficiency is wiped off. “ And
all this has been done,” said the Mayor at the municipal
picnic, the other day, “ without touching either wages
or salaries.” Adelaide streets, however, have suffered
severely.
The Broken Hill Prop, mine consisted of a hill,
about a couple of hundred feet high, through which ran
as a core an irregular lode, up to 200 ft. wide, capped by
heavy ironstone. This core has now gone, in some places,
down to 700 ft., and there only remains a tendency for the
sides to come together. In the early days the pressure
was resisted by square-set timbers; half a million was
Bpent on Oregon pine in about eight years. But, unfortu-
nately, square-sets are not capable of resisting a lateral
pressure, and it was just that resistance that was wanted.
The sides, therefore, started to go. The management’s
reply Was the open-cut, commenced by John Howell.
The overburden was removed, a good batter was
made, and the worst of the trouble was stopped,
though not until much of the old workings had
been crushed. The open-cuts in time exposed the
broken timbers; and that made the outbreak of
fire in the timbers easily possible ; also, it made it
practically impossible to stamp the fire out when it did
break out in September, 1897. What was in the end done
was to isolate it by means of solid walls of rock refuse
built across the drives, etc. Air being thus shut off, the
fire has simply smouldered. Movements, great or small,
are, however, constant, and these sometimes admit a little
air. One such incident happened the other day, and as it
was bigger than most the smoke and gas drifted through
the workings and the men had to be withdrawn. A Sun-
day (it happened on a Saturday afternoon) was spent in
closing up the rents ; and work went on much as usual
on Monday. The fire has never got below the 300 ft. level;
what was feared was that it might get down lower.
There is not very much danger of that, though, because
in the lower levels the supporting has been done
almost entirely by waste or mullock. The insecurity
of the sides is, nevertheless, a constant source of anxiety,
for while there is fire in the mine, nobody can tell what
results these movements may have.
• • * •
A fire among the timbers of a mine with a wide
lode is one of the toughest difficulties a manager can face.
Thus, the late W. H. Patton, the first ’Murkan manager
brought to Broken Hill, made a good bit of his big repu-
tation by fighting an outbreak at Comstock. The diffi-
culty, of course, is to reach the fire. To pour in water
from the surface and flood the mine is impracticable
where there is so much , mine and so little water as at
Broken Hill; for it is to be remembered that most of the
larger mines are connected underground. To reach the
fire from the underground workings is most difficult
and dangerous, owing to the drift of smoke and
the pungent and overpowering pyroligneous gas
which is generated by smouldering Oregon pine.
When the fire broke out first at 8.H., Dep.-Supt.
O’Brien, of the Melb. Fire Brigade, who had just
made a name by getting down into a burning steamer in
the bay, was rushed up by special train ; but he was
helpless. The policy then decided upon, and since
followed, is to use water to control the draughts, and
having cleared a passage as close as possible to the fire, to
seal it up with a mullock wall. For this purpose the
B.H. Prop, mine organised its own fire brigade, with a
permanent staff, whose duty is not only to maintain the
appliances, &c., but also to keep itself thoroughly
familiar with the underground workings. The co. owes
a great deal to this brigade’s work during the recent
trouble.
• * • •
Soma curious specimens, fairly common at
Broken Hill, illustrate the intensity of the heat even
though the underground fire in the mine is “ banked.”
These specimens consist of charcoal, more or less
splashed and covered with bullion. The heat has thus
been great enough to actually smelt the ore in some
places. In the section to which the fire is oonfined very
little ore remained, though, to smelt.
• * * *
Mr. A. M. Milne, of Balmain, takes exception
to a par. (27th Sept.) re Great Australian Quicksilver Co.
He states that, “since the formation of the co., the
several experiments have been carried out by myself in
the presence of many witnesses,” and, impliedly, they
have been successful. Mr. Milne is, doubtless, right as
to experiments having been made by himself since the co.
with the big title was registered, but writer knows that,
when the property was in the syndicate stage, other
experiments were made, which were reported to be
failures. Mr. Milne says that “recently, 20001 b. of poor
ore was treated for 2'05 per cent, of quicksilver. This
yield is better than the average of the New Almadens
mine (the largest in California) for the past 10 years. The
directors of the co. do not fear the quicksilver combine,
because it would be far better business on their part to
invite them to join the combine than to reduce the price
of quicksilver, and, should it become a question of com-
petition, the facilities for the economical treating of the
ore are so favorable that fear is out of the question in this
respect.” The Rothschilds and their associates in the
mercury combine will shake in their shoes when they read
this ; but it will not be from fear. When the Great Aus-
tralian Quicksilver Co. is asked to join the combine, it
will be a case of the spider and the fly.
• * * *
Paddy Lackey mine, near Sunny Corner
(N.S.W.), opening up splendidly at 600 ft. level. Lode
from 4 to 6ft. wide, and worth about 27dwts. A com-
petent man, who recently inspected the mine, says that
it is the best gold show in N.S.W. at present. Owners
will not now offer it for sale on any terms.
'* • • •
Associated (W.A.) reported to have met with
rich ore in the 1000 ft. level from Judd’s shn't. This is
heralded as “a near approach to the Northern .0 iated
and Oroya chute.” If this chute keeps in fastA i much
longer we shall hear of Norseman and Murchison mines
cross-cutting in search of it.
• * * •
Bigjohn’s goldfields water-supply scheme is so
near completion that Government officials are conferring
with mine-owners as to terms on which water is to be
supplied. Government has stated that 7s. per lOOOgals.
is the lowest price at which it can sell water with a hope
of getting a return to cover part of the interest on the
works. Mineowners have resolutely determined not to
pay more than 55., and if this offer is not promptly
accepted they will arrange for supplies of fresh water
from another source. If this threat is not mere bluff
they are masters of the situation.
* * • *
General manager of Great Fingall cables:
“ There is no change in the mine to warrant the shrink-
age in share values.” Bears seem to have taken advan-
tage of the fact that the last 40ft. of driving in No. 8
level has assayed as low as 15dwt. as against 2oz. in other
sections of the same drift, but the manager states that
this portion of the level is in the hanging-wall side of the
lode, which has always been the least valuable part of the
ore body. No explanation is offered as to why one part
of the drift should be in the footwall and another in the
hanging-wall. The natural sequence to this in-and-out
sort of mining must be devious Stock Exchange work.
No. 7 level assays have fallen to 7dwt., but this
is not of material consequence, inasmuch as a
great length of highly payable ore has been proved.
The winzes below No. 8 show lldwts. and 36dwts. Even
if the mine had no better showing than is indicated by
these figures it would still be worthy of its prefix title.
The Melbourne men who originally owned the mine and
abandoned it must have been under an unlucky spell at
the time. One of them stated, the other day : “We did
everything that we ought not to have done; there was
only one point which we left untouched and that is where
our successors found the reef which makes this perhaps
the biggest permanent mine in W.A.’’
* * • »
Bayley’s, Coolgardie, has been a disappoint-
ment ever since the rich surface dab was worked out by
Begelhole, and there is no immediate prospect of a
change. Much fuss was made over recent find at 1000 ft.
level; it was confidently asserted that the mine would
attain something like its original prosperity, but a test
paroel of 246 tons yielded 118 oz. only. Of the 400 ft.
driven at this level barely 40ft. is gold-bearing, and test
crushing shows that the value is not high enough for
appreciable profits.
Golden Arrow (W.A.) is pointing downwards,
return for Aug. averaging only 6 - 76dwt. per ton, against
7-46dwt. for July. Diamond drill has proved the new
acquisition of 40 acres (on strength of which recent re-
construction took place) an absolute duffer. Owing to
disappointing results many men have been paid off. New
Year div. promised by ex-Oornstalk Hogg not likely to be
declared—more likelihood of liquidators’ dividend.
* * • •
Ralph Nicholls, of Boulder Perseverance (W. A.)
has acquired for Frank Gardner the Great Eastern, at
Bulong, for £5OOO. Property adjoins the sensationally-
rich Great Oversight on the east, and was re-pegged
about a year ago, after being abandoned for years. In a
drive at 50ft. level more gold is visible than in any other
mine in W.A., but it is of the paint variety, and gives
one the impression that leaf-gold had been dabbed on by
some practical jokers to take down the innocent.
Judging from present knowledge, vendors have got big
end of stick.
* » • *
Associated Northern (W.A.) continues to open
up splendidly in the rich chute between 550 ft. and 400 ft.
levels. Diamond drill, which went down over 700 ft. below
lowest level, has located further bodies of rich ore, and
another bore is being sunk, in the hope that it will make
assurance doubly sure. Manager Rodda has so far re-
lented from the view he expressed some months ago that
the mine had bottomed, that he has advised the installa-
tion of a treatment-plant, all new-fangled fakes being de-
barred. Of the 2000 tons sent to Dapto returns for 720
tons are given as 60550 z., worth £24,000.
• * * •
The energy of the management of Lake View
Consols (W.A.) seems at last to have met with a sugges-
tion of success. At a depth of 1245 ft. an ore body was
met with, which gradually filled the shaft as sinking pro-
ceeded. The ore is highly mineralised, and carries free
gold in numerous quartz stringers. Some time must
elapse ere the real merits of this development can be
decided. A mine which has produced £2,225,000 from a
comparatively shallow depth, and from somewhat irre-
gular deposits, is quite likely to provide numerous sur-
prises. The prophet is in a dangerous area on the Golden
Mile, with its confusion of patches and blanks.
* * * *
South Kalgurli (W. A.) manager has explained
to directors that the great falling off in August output was
a mistake, and will not occur again. Public is asked to
believe that want of supervision was responsible for the
“ blend ” being a bit off. It would need much imagina-
tion to assume that a shortage of 800 oz. on such a small
lot as 2700 tons could be easily remedied. At present the
outlook in the lowest levels is far from rosy.
• * * •
The Euro (Laverton, W.A.), one of Gr. W.
Hall’s bantlings, has, as herein foreshadowed, closed
down after an existence of barely 30 months. Hall has
been a prolific promoter of unsuccessful mines, amongst
which are the North Star, Star of Gwalia, Prince of
Gwalia, Pride of Gwalia, Empress of Gwalia (now amalga-
mated as Gwalia Consols), Lady Ruby, Rose of England,
Flag of England, Sons of England, Mt. Morgan’s Main
Lode, Mt. Wilgea Prop., Black Swan, Lake Violet Con-
sols. The only one of these now working is the last-
named, and as its average grade of ore has declined 50 per
cent, during its seven months’ operations, and the last
parcel treated panned out at 7'33dwt. only, the end
seems not far off. With good luck in proportion to his
splendid energy Hall would have become the King of the
West. Many stories are told of his sprints across country to
forestall an opponent, not the least being his race against
Jowett to secure the Euro. On this occasion he outdis-
tanced his opponent, and had planked down the earnest-
money before the latter reached the scene. He probably
regrets now that he was first at the tape.
* * * *
Island Eureka (Lake Austin, W.A.) continues
to return about 5200 z. monthly. The 17th monthly div.
of 3d. per share, paid on Sept. 24, makes the total
£13,000. Island Eureka South, the adjoining property,
has a nominal capital of £lOO,OOO in 10s. shares, and holds
48 acres, or double that of its northern neighbor. In the
early days the property gave some sensational returns —
10 tons from surface yielded 12000 z., and 80 tons from
90ft., 5200 z. Owing to tremendous influx of water from
adjoining lake properties were flooded out. The mine is
now equipped with a winding and pumping plant, and
looks like giving holders a good run for their money.
New main shaft is down about 100 ft.
» » * •
After a deal of dilly-dallying, Moss, of the
Hainault (W.A.), has at last screwed up courage enough
to advise directors to order five more stamps. This
addition is far too insignificant to materially alter the
position of affairs, and will certainly not knock out divs.
A seven years old co. of 100,000 shares is hardly likely to
mend its fortunes by treating 1200 instead of 750 tons
monthly of 10-dwt. ore. The Hainault has been a very
one-horse show since its inception, and is likely to remain
so till its final extinction. The Glasgow people who run
this concern have displayed little mother wit in its
management.
* * * *
Kalgurli (W.A.) may now be classified among
regular div. payers, as the second div. of 2s. 6d., payable
in October, should be a precursor of many more similar
distributions. Lodes in this property are very extensive,
but patchy, stopes in places running to 50ft. wide.
Average value of stone treated about 80s. per ton, half of
which goes in mine costs. This leaves on monthly out-
put a very good margin for other charges and divs. On
present showing co. can easily distribute 2s. fid. quarterly
and keep a good balance in hand for contingencies.
* • • •
“One of the Party,” Mount Pascoe (W.A.) :
The simplest way to determine the individual interests in
your partnership is to assume that there are 30 shares ;
then there will be six of you holding three shares each
and three with four shares each. If you allow one vote
for each of the 30 shares you will get over the difficulty
which you suggest in that respect. The “ boss ” is
responsible under the law for the proper working of the
mine, and he should be at liberty to dismiss any workman
even though the latter may be a shareholder.
* * • *
The set-back in Charters Towers stock was
inevitable, but it came sooner and was severer than ex-
pected. It stood to reason that the field which has to
rely on itself almost solely for financial support could
not long sustain such an undue all-round inflation of
values as took place. The talk about British backing
was so much stage moonshine manufactured to deceive
the unwary. Certainly a fair amount of English money
has been put into Towers stock within the last two years,
but the chances are that Bull’s representatives were the
first to sell out on the abnormal rise, and thus the
boom, instead of being assisted, was checked.
The English corporations whose business it is to
operate in shares have agents in all the States, and as
these men are paid in proportion to the profits which are
made, they have to be keen in their business methods ;
they follow the safe principles of buying in a declining
and selling in a rising market. Further, it was well-
known that many local men were plunging beyond their
depth, and several, not having a straw left to clutch at,
had to sink, which meant forced realisation on piles of
shares. It is under such circumstances as these (realisa-
tion by operators who are content with a fair profit, and
forced sale of plungers’ securities) that the real strength
of the share market is shown. Towers faith in its mines
was unlimited, but it had no proportionate financial
strength. The collapse of the boom is the best thing
that could have happened in the interests of the field.
Severe as has been the reaction, a panic has been
averted ; reason has been partially restored, and prices
are once more regulated approximately on output and
prospects. The “Magic Circle” of C.T. has nothing
approaching the sensationalism of the “Golden Mile”
of W. A., but it is a question whether, in aggregate benefits
to Australian workers and speculators and to the State,
it does not hold the pride of place. The man of statistics
who ignores local conditions, and draws deductions from
dry-as-dust figures, would ridicule the suggestion that in
point of prosperity there is any comparison between Kal-
goorlie and 0.T., but writer believes that, taking the two
places, man for man, the latter has a substantial advant-
age.
• • • •
Reported that Brilliant Extended (0.T.), after
paying for all its new machinery (some £12,000), will have
about £2QOO in hand, and that a dividend is a certainty
before Xmas.
Queen Cross Reef (0.T.) declared a dividend of
Is. lid. on 200,000, or £19,166 13s. 4d. This is the largest
dividend “in one hand ” since the Victory paid £20,000
m 1893, just before the bank smashes. It was reported
then that Victory directors got .wind of the coming
trouble, and determined to place shareholders in posses-
sion of theircash. The money had accumulated while a
scheme to increase the number of shares was being
formulated. A call of lid. in the Queen Cross is also
announced. This has been made so that all the shares in
the co. will be fully-paid. The money is to be placed to a
special reserve. This arrangement supports the conten-
tion that the increase in the number of shares was pro-
posed solely for market purposes, and probably the
suggestion came from English shareholders, who could
not deal in shares in London while there was any liability
attached to them.
(Continued on page SO.)


DAVID JONES & CO.
The
“Orient”
Boot
Black Yici Kid,
Round or Narrow Toes,
28/6
George and Barrack
Sts., SYDNEY.
TABLE SALT
Makes all the Food
more strengthening.
From Grocers and Stores.
Wholesale Agents .-—Harrison fir Attwood, Sydney.
Society
The most conspicuous swelled head that
has turned up in N.S.W. this week is probably
that of the foreman of the Friedman jury. That
personage was pampered and cockered up by the
attentions of the Sydney Telegraph, till he
began to regard himself as a man of unusual
importance.' The decisions of other juries, of
magistrates, of District Court judges, and even of
Full Courts, are constantly being reversed, but
the Telegraph’s attentions seemingly worked
this foreman up to g feeling that his decision was
something extra, to reverse which was a national
outrage, By last Saturday he became so
much aroused that he announced in the
S.M. Herald that he had once been President
of the Collar-makers’ Union, and that he would
refuse to serve on any more juries till the
“stigma cast upon him” by the release of
Friedman had been removed. His attitude
was evidently that an ex-President of the Collar-
makers’ Union isn’t to be brushed aside with
impunity. The fact that if he refuses, by reason
of the “stigma,” to do jury service when next
called upon, he may be fined like any ordinary
person, or possibly gaoled for contempt of court,
is a side issue. Also, a fact which never seems to
enter the mind of the ex-President of the Collar-
makers’ Union is that, by his own showing, he
and his fellow-jurymen decided the case on evi-
dence which was not before the court—by a
private examination of certain goods, at which
examination the accused was not represented.
That isn’t good law, even though it may be good
collar-making.
RIVAL STARS.
“Every seat has been sold for Madame Melba’s first
concert.” —News item.
“The extremely large number of people anxious to
witness the Sangal-Tisler trial led the Sheriff to issue
tickets for admission to the court. As these tickets
were made the subject of much excited financial
speculation, the issue was stopped.” —Another news
item.
MELBA ( reflectively): “And yet they didn't
spend a penny in advertising!"
The argument of the N.S.W. Opposition
and the Daily Telegraph in the Friedman case,
which made such a row last week, may be con-
densed thus:—
Suffield couldn’t get his release because the judge
refused to recommend it.
Friedman shouldn’t get his release because the judge did
recommend it.
If the judge recommends a release, or if he doesn’t
recommend one, it is equally a reason for refusing it.
Of course, if the Government hadn’t released
Friedman, Opposition-leader Carruthers and
the Telegraph would have attacked it just
as furiously for disregarding the judge’s
recommendation, for “polluting” or “sealing
Up” the fount of mercy, for not having
the courage to undo a manifest injustice, for
letting an obviously innocent man rot in gaol, and
so on.
What is Loyalty coming to when the Argus
permits its London correspondent to tell the
shameful truth about royalties exactly as if they
were not demi-gods? The Argus prints the
words of its London special re one of Queen
Alexandra’s misfortunes, hitherto concealed by
the loyal press :
The fact is so obvious that it cannot be a secret that
Queen Alexandra wears a wig. Before the day of Corona-
tion the Archbishop had to explain that it would be quite
impossible to anoint a wig. The difficulty was solved by
cutting out a piece of the top, and the Archbishop poured
the oil of anointing into the hole.
Think of the blending of holy mummery, solemn
ceremonial, tremendous dignitaries, and the aged,
deaf, painted, pathetic Queen being oiled through
a hole in her wig ! Ye gods! does not humor
save more souls than religion ? For what will a
nation that has lost its sense of humor not do ?
• * • *
The fact that a cannon has been stolen
off certain defences in Sydney harbor, and can’t
be found, is disquieting. It was a useless old
cannon, but the same thief may take a good one
next time.
• * * •
“The wise man,” says Max Bell, “never
gets into a railway-carriage with a lone female in
an English-speaking country,” and a prominent
Brighton (Vic.) man cordially agrees with him.
The other day he jumped into a compartment
containing a solitary shop-girl. She had a mass
of novelettes on her lap, and between two
stations dropped her handkerchief on the floor.
Noticing this, the man caught her eye, and
nodded his head towards the fallen article. He
didn’t stoop and pick it up for her, because a man
of his circumference stoops with difficulty. The
girl’s face instantly assumed a look of abject
terror. He repeated his movement, with the
result that she looked about in every direction, as
if for an avenue of escape. Growing exasperated
at her lack of intelligence, the man raised his
hand and pointed at the handkerchief lying at her
feet. The girl bounded up, opened the carriage-
door, and cried hysterically: “If you move a
step, I’ll throw myself on the rails.” The man
grasped the situation. “ Pick up your handker-
chief, you damn little fool! ” he retorted, indig-
nantly. Then she understood the situation, and
sat frying in her own blushes till the next station
was reached, whereupon she fled like one pursued
by mad clergymen. That man is now thanking
lus stars that the next station was not half-a-mile
further, for the girl couldn’t have fried much
longer without getting hysterical, and the man
who wants to be alone with a hysterical Aus-
tralian girl in a railway carriage would light a
fire under a healthy lion in his native wilds and
wait to hear the animal frizzle.
» • * *
Hobart Qity Council is being urged by
public meetings to cleanse and disinfect its dirty
ways before summer comes. Shown by a speaker
at one big Town Hall meeting that nearly 600
houses discharge all their refuse into the slug-
gish open creek, euphemistically termed the
Hobart Rivulet, which meanders through the
centre of the city. On the banks of this pellucid
stream, and right in the thick of the 600 above
mentioned, are the City Abattoirs, whence Hobart
gets its meat, and the meat is flanked on one side
by a sanitary wharf and depot for the chariots of
the Pilgrims of the Night! In Hobart the
property-owner may have seven votes ; and about
one-third of the ratepayers have twice as many
votes as the other two-thirds put together. This
is what makes the cleaning of the cobble-stoned
city so difficult.
* » * *
A nasty letter from Rookwood (Sydney)
Old People’s Home:
Ed, Bulletin.— Mr. Kelly, M.L.A., asks for a commis-
sion to inquire into the working of Rookwood Asylum.
If it is granted, there will assuredly be revelations. With
but a few more inmates, the cost of the upkeep has
enormously increased the past four years. The sick and
destitute are a secondary consideration to the manage-
ment. The first, and worst, part of the winter there was
no shelter-shed, and the old men, being forbidden to go
into their dormitories, had to hang about the verandahs
in a state of wet and cold, numerous deaths being the
result. Through lack of proper supervision, the clothing
(shirts, trousers, boots, &c.) disappears very rapidly, and
it is well-known to the police and certain of the Asylum
officials that many of the inhabitants for miles around
are wearing clothes belonging to the Asylum. Some in-
mates openly boast of the number of shirts, trousers, &c.,
they can dispose of. Though an ample scale of diet is
allowed by Government, yet the food is badly cooked, and
there is no variety ; skin diseases are therefore rife. The
hospitals are crowded by young men ("malingerers), who
keep there by toadying to the nurses, whilst the aged
who are really sick, are left to perish in the yard. Aliens,
who_ should be handed to their consuls, abound, and are
in high favor with the officials ; but perhaps the biggest
scandal of all is that one -inmate, whose relatives hold
high positions in the State, is allowed a private room,
wears his own clothes, and has another unfortunate in-
mate to wait on him. Can nepotism go farther?— Anak.
• • • *
Dr. Nash, M.L.C., has returned to the
charge, in N.S.W. Leg. Council, on the subject of
the housing of consumptives in the terrible Liver-
pool Asylum. He has ascertained that the
Government is “considering the matter,” which
was the answer he received in Sept., 1901. It
will be considering the matter, if it is left in
peace, in September, 1903. Yet a decent asylum
for consumptives—an asylum where at least one
patient may recover, for a change—is of more im-
portance than Australia Facing the Dawn. It is
even more essential than “ Lyne Park,” and such-
like blobs and excrescences and bloke-haunted
places of riot.
NO DOUBT!
LYDY: “ Ticket to Parramatta, young man.”
TICKET-OFFICER: “ First or second?”
LYDY : “ Second , you idiot; my first husband
died young.”
Brisbane Tramway Co., to allay local fears,
gave it out that there wasn’t enough energy in
any single conducting wire to kill a human being,
but a while back a sectional wire in the suburbs
broke at daylight, and a curious bullock nosed the
end lying across the track, and there was a quarter
of a ton of dead bullock in a second or so. Also
a wire broke at a city junction and dangled in the
way of a suburban ’bus (running to the hospital
arid cemetery), and the driver, putting his foot
on the metal brake lever, tried to reach it
with his hand to push it aside. Had he succeeded
the fact that his ’bus was going to the cemetery
in any case would have saved much time and
trouble. Brisbane isn’t used to anything so
up-to-date as electricity, and is a good deal
troubled about its wires and shocks.
* • * *
The latest undressed woman story comes
from Queensland. The patient lived at Burdekin
River, and says she was driving home with £1 in
her purse and £l3 in a bag hidden among her
clothes, when she was bailed up by a man who took
the £1 and afterwards compelled her to undress in
order to get at the £l3. Then he declared a divi-
dend of £5 to the terrified and unclothed lady, and
left. At latest advices the police were looking
vainly for the tracks of the miscreant, who doesn’ t
seem to have left any.
* » * *
The Taralga (N.S.W.) shooting affair
brings into prominence the way certain casual
Australians have of entering and leaving their
dwellings rather than go to the slight expense
of a lockable door. Moran told how, having
barricaded the windows and doors, he left his
dwelling through the chimney. Near the back-
yard in which the cat of the present scribe is king,
exists a family which, for over two months, has
used a back window in place of a doorway.
During that time the door has been closed because
the lock has gone wrong.
• • • *
The Mayor of Adelaide, who is a Cohen of
the Cohens, welcomed the Anglican Congress to
S.A., and the Bishop, straining his mind hard to
find some safe religious observation to make, hit
on Abraham as a character reverenced by all
religions known to this continent, barring the
Confucians. The reverend gentleman’s struggles
not to wander from the non-committal subject of
Abraham were interesting. Yet he might have
alluded to Gad and Manasseh without breaking
anything.
* * * *
A common recreation of Melbourne
Johnniedom in these days of the high lifting-up of
the trailing skirt is to bet on the probable number
of holes in the stockings of the Coming Woman as
they see her approaching down Collins-street. It
is really a game of odd man out, played by three
Johnnies, one betting that there will be no holes
and the others staking their money on an odd or
even number. There are enough holes to make
the game exciting.
* * * *
Tom Bent (Vic.) says that formerly the
whole family lived on the land ; now only the old
couple work the farm, the son is in the police or
on the trams, and the daughter is dressmaking
for wealthy people. Tom Bent himself was once
on the land, growing cabbages. In his case, even
the old people didn’t stick to the soil.
“ Mirumbeck ” : The lack of
employment for women
in the country dis-
tricts of Victoria, is
possibly responsible
for the fact that
numbers of fine
girls of Irish
stock are en-
tering the con-
vents to be
trained as
teachers in
the Catholic
schools con-
nected there-
with. Know
of a score of
buxom lasses
(they always
get the plump-
est of them)
who have
graduated
through the
sixth class, as
boarders, i n
different con-
vents, and
after a few
months back
on the farm
have decided to relinquish the
world and its ways, and become
novices, to develop later on as
Sister Gertrude or Sister Mary
Galilee. Thus the community
and the census suffers, for only
the strongest and smartest are
called—or chosen. Why it should
be the finest physical specimens
of womanhood who drift into
celibacy, when Nature so obvi-
ously intended them to bring up
and spank a large family on the
place where it should be spanked,
is a mystery.
According to Federal. Defence-Minister
Lyne, his department has been put to great ex-
pense in distributing returned soldiers landed at
wrong ports. Difficulties arose through returned
soldiers (not sent out with Australian contingents,
but belonging to irregular corps) wanting to be
sent all over Australia. General Finn said he
had got for seven men, who were discharged at
Capetown, steamer passes for Melbourne, Bris-
bane and Fremantle, “ the cost of which was to
be charged to the Imperial Government,” But,
as General Finn ought well to know, he will never
get a penny of this from the Imperial Govern-
ment. When a British soldier is discharged he is
carried free to where he enlisted, and to nowhere
else. If Mr. Lyne has been spending public
money in sending the Drayton Grange stowaways,
and suchlike, all over Australia, the shortest pro-
cess is to deduct the money thus foolishly spent
from Lyne’s official screw.
• * * *
Adelaide is just now pricking its ears for
another divorce sensation, £5OOO claimed and a
very wide area of defence. That’s the best of
living in a holy city: the courts are always pro-
viding amusement.
* * * *
An ex-imperial officer on the Drayton
Grange business: “ Good gawd! atwained soldyah
would have died of sheer loneliness in the space
allowed foah each of those fellahs on the Drayton
Grange ! ”
FOR THE FIRST TIME WITHIN THE
MEMORY OF MAN.
“Oh!” “ What?” “It can't be true.”
“What can’t be true?”
“ Why, that we have won an election.”


With regard to the proposed tour of the
members of the Federal Legislature, with
a view to becoming better acquainted with
the resources of our different States, they are
strongly advised to read May Vivienne’s “ Travels
in Western Australia,” in which they will find
every information relating to the resources of that
particular State without the necessity of putting
the Government to the extra expense of travelling
through it, as all the needful information is to be
found in that very interesting and trustworthy
book.*
Carnegie began as a messenger-boy. It’s
gratifying to hear of one messenger boy who got
there.
As one result of Mfc. Kembla accident,
N.S.W. Govt, proposes a Bill to amend the Coal-
Mines Regulation Act in regard to the use of
explosives and safety lamps.
Schenk, the man who thought that he had
found out the secret of pre-natal determination of
sex, has died at Vienna in the odor of persecution.
His fellow doctors boycotted him, and he was
compelled to resign his University professorship.
That is the usual fate of men who make premature
announcement of medical discoveries—a fate
which even Koch did not wholly escape, though
his “tuberculin” was proved to have some
efficacy. Schenk, by the way, denied that the
Czar or Czarina of Russia consulted him as to the
sex of their last child.
Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
Customers by six expert hairdressers. Address.—
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-street
or King street, Sydney.*
STARCH
SILVER
STAR
WORLD
THE
BEST
THE
IN
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Australia’s
Leading Tonic
Beverage.
It may interest Detective
Murphy, from Scotland Yard, to
know that at the beginning of
N.S.W. history every constable who
did his work well during the week was
given, by order of the Governor, one
pint of rum on Saturday. Some say that
to the want of this encouragement a good
deal of present police remissness is due.
Detective Murphy’s views on a possible
reorganisation of the force on a Saturday-
rum basis might be worth hearing.
How the poor live in Aus-
tralia. From Melbourne Age
23/8/’O2: —
The place, a three-roomed tene-
ment, was devoid of furniture, )
and not a morsel of food was to be
found. The woman was crooning
over an empty fireplace with a
suckling baby in her arms, whilst
another pale, attenuated mite about
a year older wept iri a corner. An
apology for a bedstead was in one of the rooms, the
tattered clothing upon it being in a shockingly filthy
condition. On seeing the constable the woman, who
presented an utterly neglected appearance, started to her
feet, declaring that she would kill herself and the
children, too. The constable thereupon arrested her.
• • * •
One Ministerial candidate in a small Mel-
bourne suburb had a particularly bad time during
the recent campaign. At one of his meetings a
disgusted elector arose and gave the assemblage
an awful example of the candidate’s Scotchby-
terianism. The candidate, he said, had advertised
for a man to milk his cow 14 times a week, and
when the speaker applied for the job, and offered
to do the work for 35., he was told that 2s. was
enough, and that the cow’s proprietor could easily
get it done for Is. That was the beginning of the
candidate’s worry, and throughout the contest he
was tormented to distraction with interjections,
references, suggestions and questions all bearing on
the miserable cow incident. Wherever he went
the cow story followed him, and he was “ moo-ed ”
at on the platform, and bellowed after in the
streets. It was useless for him to deny that he
had ever advertised for a milker, or to make an
affirmation to the effect that he had never had a
cow of his own—the cow legend pursued him
remorselessly just the same. Finally, on the
night before the election, a band of ardent demo-
crats drove a gaunt, strawberry-blonde cow into
his hall, and hustled her on to his platform, where
she moo-ed right in his face. Then the candidate
broke down miserably and went home to bed.
* ■* * *
The pavilion at Farm Cove, Sydney, used
as an official landing-place by Lord Hopetoun,
the Duke of York, E. W. O’Sullivan, Bishop
Kelly, and the Denison Labor League, is to be
removed to Ashfield Park, Mr. Winchcombe
having successfully begged it for his constituents
for use as a band-stand. Applications will now
be received for the Centennial Park swearing-in
pavilion, which would make a fine duck-house
for any municipality owning an ornamental lake.
* » » «
There is something very elegant and sweet-
tempered in these announcements :
The Mayor yesterday returned a visit which Messrs.
G. A. Wilson, O. Delohery, and J. Barling:, of the Public
Service Board, paid him at Sydney Town Hall on the
previous day.
Why do not other grown men in official positions,
say inspectors of nuisances, pound-keepers and
gaol-warders, behave as prettily ?
* * • *
Brisbane, with summer at hand and no
rain, consoles itself with the theory that there is
still a three years’ supply in the reaches of the
Upper Brisbane River. But nobody dares
inspect that supply too closely for fear the com-
forting delusion may fade away. The Courier
speaks forebodingly about the alleged reserve,
but even the Courier doesn’t send up a com-
petent engineer to report, and make a great
journalistic scoop with the result. “Let us wash
and drink, for to-morrow we die,” is Brisbane’s
motto.
* * * *
What puzzles girls badly when they call
on an advertising doctor is that he seldom
looks a bit like the beautiful photo in his.advertise-
ment. “ Why,” one young girl said, “it was his
likeness fetched me.” That is just what it was
meant to do.
* * • •
British Royal Commission on Prisons sug-
gests a reform which all modern ideas of penology
favor—the condemning of some classes of criminals
to indeterminate periods of detention. Persons
who are, by a kink of the brain, practically certain
to repeat the sex offences, the frenzied assaults,
or the robberies for which they were put in gaol,
should never be allowed out until the kink is set
straight. The recent dreadful Ramsay’s Bush
(N.S.W.) outrage was a tragio proof of the folly
of the Law. The perpetrator of that, and another
closely-following outrage, on a child, was a sex-
maniac who had been before under the Law’s lock
and key. His release, it might have been cal-
culated with almost mathematical accuracy, would
be followed by another crime—and yet he was
released, i >
THAT DROUGHT.
“ Oh, this book is pure twaddle.
Haven't you anything to read
that will make your hair curl?”
“Rather I Try this — it’s the lasi
month's butcher's bill.”
The police have not yet gaoled anyone
over the robbery of the opal-mail near Broken
Hill. Of the three accused they took one out of
the dock and put him on the witness-stand, where
he did not help them much; of the other two,
one was discharged by the direction of Judge
Pring as soon as the prosecution was closed, and
as to the other, Burgess, the jury disagreed.
Only [one of the 12 thought the evidence as to
the identity of the opal good enough. One
or two men swore that gems handled by the
accused were identical with some they had sent
by the stolen mail; and upon that the experts (of
whom there are 999 at White Cliffs) disputed as
to whether stones could be positively sworn to.
One man said it was as easy as getting a thirst in
summer; whereupon the prisoners handed him
first one opal and then two together (the first and
another one) and asked him to tell which was
No. 1. He guessed wrongly.
♦ * * *
At Sydney University celebrations, just
concluded, there were present various representa-
tives of foreign universities. Many addresses in
Latin and a few in French were delivered; and
you might notice the old-time grads., from whose
minds business had long since driven any know-
ledge of dead languages, keeping their ears
pricked for a familiar sound and seizing the occa-
sion to applaud violently to show that they
“understood every word” of the Latin oration.
When “ Universitas Sydniensis ” happened along
there was always a cheer, and “Excellentissimum”
(a very “doggy” word, by the way) was also
the signal for general applause whenever it
occurred. A French delegate from Noumea, who
spoke in his native tongue, was frequently inter-
rupted by general cheers, though, for all nine-
tenths of his hearers knew, he might have been
saying that Sydney University was such a failure
that it should be turned into a butter-factory.
* * * *
Bishop Julius told an Adelaide inter-
viewer, apropos of the recent earthquake, that
after the spire of Christchurch Cathedral (Maori-
land) had been shaken down twice, he was drawn
up in a basket to specially consecrate the third
renovation. But the next shock brought that down,
too. So now the spire is being built of wood
covered with copper, so that Providence may not
be further tempted to demolish it.
• * * •
The Unco Guid of the web, kirky, whiski-
fied city of Dunedin (M.L.), recently received a
severe “doing ” at the hands of Judge Cooper. The
tramway employees had hauled the corporation
before the Arbitration Court on the subject of
Sunday traffic and other things. Two traffic
managers swore that it was necessary to have the
whole staff on duty on Sundaysowing to the heavy
rush of church-goers. If the bulk of the people
hadn’t been such consistent attendants at the
sanctuary the men could have been worked in
relays, but the concentration of a heavy
traffic into the 30 minutes or so before church
hours required every man in the service to cope
with it, and the management found it extremely
difficult to arrange that the employees could get
off even one Sunday in four. The Judge said that
Dunedin’s reputation for godliness was built up
by sweating the tram employees and forcing them
to desecrate the Sabbath. However, as the Court
hadn’t the power to abolish Sunday traffic, it
could only see to it that this church-going public
paid overtime wages to the men whom it robbed
of their day of rest. The Court had hopes that
high fares would prick the hardened church con-
science where nothing else would.
* * * *
Called upon to adjudicate on that most
difficult of all offences to disprove, exposure, a
bench of Prahran (Vic.) “ honorariums” inflicted,
the other day, the savage sentence of 9 months’
liard labor on an infirm old man of 78, so para-
lysed that he had to be dressed and undressed.
The old man had an unblemished record, and was
physically incapable of even the most trifling
acts, indecent or otherwise, bub the Prahran
wiseacres considered him a hardened criminal and
awarded just nine times as much gaol as Judge
Moles worth lately gave to a 21-times’ convicted
ruffian who broke a boy’s leg 1
* * * *
How can the average poverty-stricken
Treasurer be other than a ghoul ? South Aus-
tralian millionaire Angas is 79 and is very ill. If
he dies the Treasury will collect nearly £lOO,OOO,
and the S.A. Treasury chest has hardly anything
in it just now save an echo. Treasurer Butler
can hardly avoid hoping that Mr. Angas will die.
There should be some arrangement by which a
rich man, when he attains the age of 65 or so,
should be allowed to compound with the Treasury
by paying his death-duty in advance, subject to
discount. Then when he is very old and very
feeble he won’t be harassed by the fear that every
shadow on his window is the Treasurer looking in
to see if he is dead.
According to Cascade Brewery Chairman
Fitzgerald—who breasted the bar of Tas. House of
Landlords, the other day, in defence of “tied
houses” —apprehensions for drunkenness in Hobart
in 1881 (before his present co. started tying its
pubs.) were 9’72 per 1000 of the community, while
in 1900 they were only 4'92 per 1000. How “ tied
houses ” could be held responsible for this alleged
sobering-up of the community Mr. F. didn’t argue.
He just hurled these proofs of the increased inef-
ficiency of the police at the old gents of the
Chamber of Refuse, and left it at that. Fitz. has
been a M.L.C. himself, and knows when not to
argue.
6 + * * •
When the occasion requires it the meek
and gentle parson-man can use abusive language
to perfection. The other day the Presbyterian
Assembly of Australia started out to draw up and
discuss a revised creed for the church. Referring
to the Committee’s efforts in that direction the
Rev. A. Stewart said: “The wording of the
doctrines is careless, inexact, unscientific and
muddle-headed.” Later on he submitted his
reasons for dissenting from the creed as drawn:—
(1) That by a side wind, and without consideration, a
series of quasi-theological statements or articles had been
Introduced into the doctrinal environment of the church,
contrary to the spirit of the basis of union where it deals
with doctrine ; (2) these statements have been carelessly
and inefficiently drawn, and are, in consequence, vague,
inexact, uncritical, incoherent, and to a definable extent
erroneous in their contents; (3) the whole church has
been committed to these ill-advised and unscholarly
statements without having had the opportunity through
the presbyteries of pronouncing upon them.
If the tnild and reverend gentleman had only
added that the proposed doctrines were knock-
kneed, worm-eaten, sodden, decayed, fishy, idiotic,
badly-spelled, muddy and blasphemous, it would
have rounded off these few remarks beautifully.
* * * *
Those holy mountebanks Torrey and Alex-
ander have descended upon Maoriland, and are
playing nightly to crowded houses. In Christ-
church Torrey scattered hell-fire and brimstone
far and wide, and stigmatised the sceptics as
cowards who would fear to come out of their
shells until he was away. Whereupon said un-
believers descended upon him in a multitude, and
for a few days there raged in the press a hell upon
earth. They can swallow a lot in Christchurch,
in the way of patent religions, for Worthington
did good business there, but Torrey’s Hell was a
trifle too hot. During the concluding days of his
mission he spent most of his time answering
questions and abusing his opponents. When the
missioners departed Alexander was presented
with a purse of sovs., and a silly crowd at the
railway station actually sang :
The old-time religion, the old-time religion—
It’s good enough for Torrey, it’s good enough for me.
It makes me love Alexander, and it’s good enough for me.
“ANY EXCUSE IS BETTER THAN
NONE.”
MTS. BROWN: “Last night you came home with
a story of sitting up with a sick friend. Now,
what is it?"
MR. BROWN : “ To-night , my love, we (hie) all
gathered round his bier.”
Sydney Worker published this in a
recent issue:
CHEERING NEWS.
A.W.U. BATTLERS STILL AT WORK.
BUSH UNIONISM A LIVING FORCE.
Al! the country between Landsborough and Gympie
has been burned. There are also fires on the Blackall
Range.
And, marvellous to relate, Wingen Abbott did
not make the “ stone-hand’s ” howling blunder in
dropping that par. in under that heading the text
for a sermon on union atrocities. Perhaps Mr.
Abbott is at last threatened with a sense of
humor.
■ * • *
“ Karoo”: A Fitzroy (Vic.) local preacher,
who had done his share of the recent rain suppli-
cations, had not long turned in one night after-
wards when he heard a sound as of thunder,
followed by a perfect deluge of water upon the
roof. With a devout thanksgiving the good man
went contentedly to sleep, and in the early
morning, finding the “rain” still pouring, he
exultantly raised his window-blind, when he came
near to cursing. Nearly the whole of his front
garden had been washed away by the torrent
from a burst water-pipe, which was still playing
vigorously.
THE DREAMER.
[For Tub Bulletin.]
Men go in gladness and sorrow,
And each one deems that his going
Is lifting the sun to-morrow
And setting the breezes blowing.
They boast of turret and steeple,
Of scroll and picture and letter,
Mocking another people,
“ Come ye and do something better.*
They scoff at the seers and ponder
Where lie the goal and the guerdon ;
They cry, “ See it gleams out yonder,
So haste ye each with his burden.”
But I would dream on the river,
Adrift with its swinging motion,
Where the sunlight and shadows quiver,
And die ere I reach the ocean.
By the slumb’rous poppy-meadows
I would glide through the glories gleaming,
For what are we all but shadows
In a dream our God is dreaming ?
M.L. QuiLP hf.
• * * *
A Bulletin correspondent tells of a matri-
monial engagement which lasted 47 years
In an inland town of Queensland a maiden of 65 lately
wedded a youth of 69. The youth left Dorset (Eng.) in
1855 to seek his fortune in Australia, and, ere leaving,
became engaged to a local maid, aged 18. His fortune
did not arrive quickly ; as fast as the money came in it
was “ knocked down ” in a way that will be understood
by Australians who recall the 60’s. The lovers corres-
ponded twice a year—at Christmas and on her birthday, in
June. At last the maiden’s patience Was exhausted, and,
as she was in comfortable circumstances, and had recently
come in for £4OOO, she put aside her coyness and proposed
to join hands and hearts for aye. She came recently to
Queensland, and though at first each was amazed at the
apparently unexpected change in the other’s appearance,
they were made man and wife.
* * * *
A somewhat peculiar verdict was returned
lately by the jury in an under-the-age-of-consent
case at Oamaru (Maoriland). The judge directed
that the accused should be acquitted if there were
reasonable grounds for assuming that he believed
the girl to be over the age of 16 (she was aged
15 years and 10 months). The jury, after a brief
retirement, gave this verdict: “We find that at
the time of the occurrence the accused did not
know or care how old the girl was.”
• * • *
Queensland Salvation Army will only
provide shelter for girls who have “ fallen.” This
is an inducement for the destitute girl to go out
and “ fall,” as poor girls are only provided with
temporary shelter at the Lady Musgrave Lodge. ”
« * * *
“Itan”: I understand the telegraphic code.
Stood outside Bondi (N.S.W.) telegraph office
recently, waiting for a tram, and, without shifting
from the outside of the footpath, I read sundry
private messages by sound as they came through.
It is easy to learn the code, and in the
ordinary post-office, where the instrument is adja-
cent to the open air, you can hear interesting
items of other people’s business, robbery, &e.
A Casino (N.S.W.) butcher’s ad. :
"VTOTICE. Know ye all men, to whom it may con-
cern, I intend closing the family bible, and
closed it will be on Saturday, 27th September, after
which date no orders will be called for and all business
must be cash. , butcher.
* • • •
Notice outside a Sydney registry office :
ANTED, Gentleman’s Son, as Jackeroo; £l3.
ENTRANCED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A trance upon my spirit fell;
It seemed as I were hurled
Through aeons like an atom dark
Beyond the flaming world :
From void to void without a breath,
As in a weird unknown,
Where Death had done his oldest work,
And God himself was gone !
R. CRAWFORD.
THE BUSH MAIDEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I sang the glories of her eyes,
Wove idylls with her hair,
Lied half a hundred lover’s lies,
And prayed the lover’s prayer.
Merry and mischievous she stood,
Her cheeks a glowing pink,
Beneath the mottled leopard-wood,
And answered —with a IF INK l
I saw the stately city styles
Were useless in the bush ;
That he who would subdue her wiles
Must ’Whelm them with a rush.
I clasped her waist; I felt her thrill,
Then, knowing none were nigh,
I kissed her pouting lips until—
She winked the OTHER eye I
N.S.W.
YARRAN.


S
_‘ k <£ £AVenETTEJ>
Are the Ideal Fabrics
fo R
RAINCOATS.
SET OF TEETH ONE GUINEA
Absolutely Painless
Beautifr 1 and Lifelike in Appearance and Guaranteed Perfect Fit.
Extractions and Stopping's Guaranteed.
Special Attention Given to B-eg'ulr.ting' Children’s Teeth.
Surgeon!Dentist, 4-3 Oxford-st., Sydney
Sold by all Drapers and Hosiers.
KNEIPP LINEN
UNDERWEAR
Porous. Cool. Clean. Unshrinkable.
Recommended by Medical Profession.
Prevents Prickly Heat, Eczema,
Allows the Body to Breathe.
There has not been a more interesting
Australian book published for a long time than
“Bushman and Buccaneer”—giving the life and
writings of Harry Morant (“The Breaker”).
Every bushman will want to buy a copy for the
sake of the complete collection of “The Breaker’s”
verses which it contains. The book gives a photo-
graphic reproduction of the “ copy ” of Morant’s
last verses, written in gaol, and many illustrations,
from authentic photographs, of the Bush veldt
Carbineers’ operations. Price one shilling.
Wholesale from Edwards Dunlop and Co., Syd-
ney.— Ad vt.
A graceful form and well moulded bust
are essential to perfect beauty. Lacte, the
wonderful “Skin Food” is nature’s remedy for
giving back those essentials when lost through
sickness or action of time, and for supplying them
when constitutionally deficient. It fills all hollows,
develops and gives a charming roundness to neck
and arms. Price 7s. 6d. per jar, post Bs. 3d.
Westall Guest, Toilet Specialist to the Gov.-
General, 229 Bourke-street, Melbourne.
f
“BE SURB IT’S
CHARLES
I HEIDSIECK
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
, Sydney, October 7, 1902.
My Dear Aitim.—
First petal of Vice-Admiral and Lady Beau-
mont’s trefoil garden-party was pulled off last
i rid ay at Admiralty House. Lady Beaumont, in
a black and white striped coat and skirt, received,
standing on the sloping turf below the verandah.
His Ex., the V.A., met most of the guests as soon
as their plateau or stove-pipe hats showed above
the stone stairs from the water-way, rounded
them up, and piloted them to his wife, who gave
them the reward of having written their names in
an? Admiral’s hook—a word and a sweet smile.
The lawn looked as if fixed up for theatricals;
colored awnings were stretched from the top of the
balcony down across the tennis-court, of which
sections were carpeted and furnished.
Strange how people at a garden-party will stand
m spite of tempting accommodation to sit—
possibly afraid that other women won’t be
sufficiently enraged by their dresses, or that the
gowns will be missed by the dress-chroniclers.
The day was warm, grey and windless, and over
the calm, slate-colored sea drifted the music of the
band of the Royal Arthur playing “The Inter-
mezzo.” It gave other selections, but how it
played that! Some men in scarlet coats intruded
their crude color into the greenness and greyness,
and made One wish to be a bull or the Beast in
Revelation, to toss such red pottage. With the.
Rawsons came their Victorian Excellencies, the
Clarkes. Lady Clarke—who has certainly been
a beauty in her day—very tall, slender, swan-
necked, smiling, simply dressed in gray ; Miss
Clarke, also tall, graceful, mezzo in coloring, and
very interested in the view, the place, the people j
also simply dressed in pale green Liberty silk.
Captains of warships, captains of land forces,
Cabinet Ministers, parsons, doctors, consuls,
accompanied by tucked voiles, and voiles herring-
boned, and voiles inlet with insertion, and muslin
chiffons, wearing hats light as a souffle, or hats
hearsed with black plumes—that is an Admiralty
garden-party summed up. Dr. John Hay wore in
his button-hole an orchid which is the first of its
kind flowering here—a beautiful waxen bloom
with a five-petal corolla, its centre dashed with
mustard color, and freckled with heliotrope. It
was grown in wearer’s conservatory at North
Sydney from artificially-fertilised plants. Mrs.
Hay had another kind of orchid, with less of the
™ r d- butterfly -and -patent -clothes -peg about it.
These weird blooms have, it seems, a wonderful
paying power, and will keep fresh for nine weeks.
Mr. Chamberlain, in fact, has to change his less
frequently than his coat.
Q. Chief Justice Griffith, the oldest living
graduate of Sydney University, whose jubilee he
has been helping to celebrate, was present; also
Mrs. Langloh Parker (author of “ Australian
Aboriginal Folk-lore ”), and the Rev. Mr. and Mrs.
Arthur, just back from their long stay at the
Straits Settlement.
Mr. Tivoli Rickards nas bought “Carthona,” a
real picture house, ruddy and Virginia-creepered,
in Double Bay, with a long level beach, all its
very own, white and fine as castor sugar, a doll’s
wharf, and boat and bathing houses, and “tres-
passers prosecuted ” —all backgrounded by a tree-
clad hill. “ Carthona ” is part of the late Mr.
Mitchell’s Etham estate, from which it was bought
by the recent owner, Mr. Chipman. Mrs. Ciiip-
man is going to England to see her schoolboy son.
Mrs. B. R. Wise also goes before Christmas to
see her young Etonian.
Sheridan, in the millinery department of a big
Sydney shop, choosing hats for his own wear in
“Mrs. Goldstein,” was amusing. None would
imagine, from his feminine way of wearing femi-
nine clothes, that he would choose them in such
an off-hand manlike fashion. He would not even
take them in his hand, and, when the milliner
brought a huge “Lely” hat, of white tucked
chiffon with black plumes, rather close to him, he
backed from it as if he expected it to spring at
him and take his head into chancery. Those that
suited him he bade the milliner “send down.’'
One, a stylish creation of crimson poppies and
green hops, he rather liked, bu.t wasn’t sure that
it would go with a certain brocade gown. The
milliner assured him, and he gave in, saying,
“Well, I’ll wear some red here,'on the skirt’'
vaguely indicating the knee of his tubular gar-
ment. °
• A ; Worthington’s pretty little brick cottage
m J H[ re d‘ s t_ re et, North Sydney, was rushed last
week by curious hordes of people when the auction
sale took place. _ Things fetched a fair price.
What intensely interested the horde were the
three children’s cots ; they wondered what hadi
become of the little occupants, and what had.
become of the lady who owned them.
Rear-Admiral Burgess Watson’s death reminds
Sydneysiders that he was in the earliest ’Bo’s in
Sydney waters, commanding H.M.S. Wolverene
and Miranda, and that he married a local beauty
only daughter of Dr. Carl Fischer. The late
Admiral’s two sons are in the navy. Dr. Fischer
died not long ago at Chicago.
Two separate attempts by different bodies of
persons have been made to give an organised
welcome to Melba. First attempt fizzled out.
Ihe second had a backbone, and the reception
was to take the form of a conversazione on Oct.
15, but that date, as Melba writes to the hon..
sec., will not suit her, and as it is the only one ori
which Sydney Town Hall is available, the'
committee “ reluctantly considers the question
settled. So, when her majesty the songstress;
appears, the Citizens’ Committee, instead of wel-
coming her m evening dress under a thousand
lamps at a high festival, will have to go to Red fern l ,
and jump on its hat, like other disorganised wel- J
comers.
Those venerable “ properties,” the little ragged
child and the poor, gentle old woman, which are
inseparable to the triumphs of any star, instru-
mental, lyric, or dramatic, have arrived in Aus-
tralia, I note. A Melba article, copied by a
Sydney paper from a Victorian daily, has them
all alive. The little girl with the bunch of violets
ready to ‘ ‘ frow ” into Melba’s kerridge, and the
patient old lady hiding behind a pillar of the
Town Hall to snatch a sight of the singer. These
“props.” have been used everywhere that Melba
has sung, but very largely in America. (Some
stars are very fond of a little lame boy. A noted
instrumentalist, who growed in Sydney, is
generally accosted by a small, pale-faced boy on
crutches when she leaves the crowded hall in
which she has played.) Either the poor one offers
Melba the faded violets, or Melba impulsively
bestows her ten-guinea bouquet on the poor one,
whose face is instantly irradiated with a heavenly
light. When Melba reaches Sydney I do hope
that the property-child, or old woman, or lame
boy, will have enough originality to “frow” her
a branch of wattle or a ’possum-pelt.
With a week of academic rejoicing Sydney Uni.
has celebrated its 50th birthday. It is still a two-
year-old, so to speak. This month, as its con-
gratulatory address states, the University of
Valencia, in Spain (a very young institution com-
pared with others) is celebrating its 400th birth-
day, and the pathetic institution excuses itself
from asking Sydney Uni. over to the party ’cause
it hasn’t enough vittles for itself, let alone for
visitors. All the addresses from European
Unis, are in Latin, and are signed Archi-
balds Robertson or Billus Jones. The acade-
mic dress—furred, hooded, many-colored—en-
abled the great hall “to present a brilliant
appearance” when the delegates were received
and the addresses spoken. Considering that the
boss pedagogic brains of Australasia had the floor,
there ought to have been some literary remains to
glean, but there are none—not a sheaf from the
Jubilee sowing. The Deans of the divers facul-
ties gave good advice, and told the Patient Toiler
how to “make it a cinch.” Prof. Tucker (who
represented Melbourne and Cambridge Universi-
ties), loaded up with Greek harvests, could have
left a literary remain of the first quality, but didn’t.
Chancellor. Normand MaoLaurin gave a history
of the University; Prof. M‘Callurn’s speech on
university influence had some Andrew Carnegie
in it suggesting how the Patient Toiler might get
to the top without being found out. Josiah
Symon’s address was the best of the group, and it
wasn’t worth writing on a rose-leaf scroll, either.
But the dry bones were served up with good
gravy—a harbor excursion, a garden party, a ball,
and a dramatic entertainment. First was delight-
ful. Two, or more, lovely uniformed warriors
(who had never been in battle) on board with
spurs, riding-whips, shoulder-straps, bandoliers,
torpedoes, and Maxim guns, and other warlike
gear hung and nailed and rivetted all over them.
One of them explained his condition to Prof. :
“Just returned—haw !—from showing the Gover-
nors over the forts —haw !—at Chowder—haw ! ”
The Prof, hurriedly gave orders for the vessel to
sheer off, presumably for fear any more of the
“ returns ” tribe would come on board.
You know that Falk picture of our late Gov.-
Gen. in which Adrian Louis is “taken ” writing.
It became his favorite picture, and he carried a
swag of copies away with him, and last Friday
cabled out for a lot more to be sent to him in
Scotland. A compliment to Australian photo-
graphy, anyhow.
Some notes at a dress-rehearsal of the “Mes-
senger Boy.” A song the tenor, Lyding, sings is
an acknowledgment of the petticoat’s fascination.
There’s a life-like Captain Cuttle (he who used
to say “By James”) in the piece, and he steeple-
chases over the outstretched red-shod feet of the
girls. But the M.B. is the apotheosis of the petti-
coat. At the end of each verse, thefourtall beauties
who stand behind him discreetly lift their
frocks, and exhibit the frilly lace - and - silk
offender. Their dresses are respectively a deep
shade of rose, a pastel blue, a heliotrope, and a
salmon pink seen through deep cream. The
heliotrope frock is worn by Miss Lane-Brown,
a girl well-known in Sydney, who has joined
J. C. Williamson’s beauty show. Her frock,
which seems extraordinarily wide round the hem,
lies about her feet in a riot of surfy frills.
The wearer does not seem at all amateurish
in the management of these billowy drapers,
or in her singing or dancing.' Rose Mus-
frove is a lady’s maid who runs away and
as layer upon layer of cherry-colored petticoats,
and one of her frocks is an Empire Liberty silk
worn with a huge hat. An emerald-green Prin-
cess velvet robe with chiffon frills round the foot
is one of Blanche Wallace’s paralysers. Another
is a grey chiffon, with an overskirt of grey ribbon
velvet and insertion worn with a triumph of a hat,
trimmed with grey plumes, and velvet the color of
■a blood orange.
Flannel flowers are in the city by the ton. They
appeared at the Uni. undergrads’ garden party in
the form of a ruffle round a girl’s neck. It was a
long wide ruffle, real flannel daisies, tacked on to
some foundation, and as they were a little droopy
looked just like shreds of dirty flannel.
A London woman’s paper of standing says:—
It is most touching to hear the appreciative way in
j l0 " our colonial guests speak (of English hospitality,
indeed, more, it makes one feel quite humble, considering
the immense debt of gratitude we owe to the Colonies—
whose best and bravest rallied round the old Flag, many,
•alas, never to return to their own fair lands ... At the
same time it is pleasant to know that our guests are
enjoying their time in England and feeling at home
•amongst us.
Touching ”is good; you see—we expected to
wait on the mat.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Middle-aged folk recall an aunt of Melba, on
the distaff side—-a Miss Dow, who had a superb
voice, and sang for years at the People’s Concerts
at the Temperance Hall, Russell-st. Our local
diva s musical talent comes through her mother.
The ‘ auld Scotch songs ’ are what her father likes
best, and she sang ‘Cornin’ thro’ the rye ’ to him
•specially, in public, t’other night. Critics, next day,
sentimentalised over the touching pathos, ‘and
there wasn’t a dry eye in the hall.’ Now, ‘ Cornin’
thro the rye ’ is a comic song.
“Melb. women are wondering when they are
;going to see Melba’s jewels, for our locally pro-
duced diva, unlike most divas, doesn’t care much
for jewellery, except professionally. Taken all
round, she is a common-sense Scottish goddess. A
favored pressman, who lunches now and then at
‘ Myoora, ’ has been shown the gems and reports
them truly wonderful. There are £lOO,OOO worth.
As for clothes, she’s a haphazard bundle by day,
for all her fine figure, and looks as if she grabbed
up the first frock that came to hand and got her
maid to fling it on her at top speed ; but at night
she’s out of sight. No kind of Duchess we’ve
seen is in it with Melba for style .and dignity.
‘ ‘ A select few of Melba’s old schoolmates stood
out of the welcome-movement altogether. It
might make them look too old to have been
co-mates _ with a woman admittedly over 40.
Others joined with a protesting, ‘ But really, you
know, I was such a tiny tot when “she” was at
school, I hardly remember her.’ But, alas!
school-rolls, like the camera, can’t lie.
“The Mitchells tell their friends that at
present they’re bombarded with calls, invitations
and compliments, all of which they take very
calmly, knowing that their social importance is
vicarious. Old Mr. Mitchell has evidently handed
on his Scotch common-sense, as well as his auburn
locks, to some of his clan. Even their enemies
don’t acouse Melba’s kinsfolk of ‘side.’ Their
place at Lilydale is just the old country home, a
collection of patchwork ‘additions’ to look at,
though most comfortable inside. Travellers in
those regions used to constantly encounter the
diva,’s dad, getting his goods at the railway
station, a string tied below each knee, to keep his
pant-hems high and dry.
“ Georgy-Porgy Reid slept solemnly all through
the Melba programme last Saturday night. In
the first place, lie encountered a difficulty in cork-
screwing his. way to his allotted chair. When half
way to it his patience, or his strength, or his bulk
gave out, and he sat down on the two nearest chairs.
The owners of these came along in due time and
demanded the stout gentleman’s removal. But
threatsand persuasions availed nought. ‘Sit down, ’
said he drowsily, and settled to his slumbers.
They sat. Later on, the rightful owners of the
seats demanded his eviction. ‘Ask him,’ the
attendants retorted, pointing to the slumbering
figure. Several prods and ‘ Mr. Reid ’ shouted in
his ear. awakened him. But he smiled sadly,
shook his head, folded his hands on his waistcoat
area, and settled to rest once more. He had two
guineas’ worth of snooze.
“ The best show of Melba jewels flashed on the
audience at the fourth (Saturday) sing-song.
Diamonds and turquoises—a coronet, necklet, and
a curious miniature chandelier at the corsage.
This latter ornament represents a Norwegian
bridal brooch. Elbow width was given in this
fourth concert gown by fancy sleeves having lace
points with black rosettes of a detached character.
The white tucked chiffon and silk and lace frock
had the waist outlined by a black chiffon scarf—a
slender one. Melba looks more her photo, size in
this. The smart relatives all like the clinging
pearl paillette gown (sported on Tuesday night)
the best. It is a mould into which a melted
Melba seems to have been poured.
“The week-old wedded couple—Capt. and Mrs.
Watt—were guests of the Tennysons at the Satur-
day concert. The skittish pair lent more radiance
and light to that Union Jack bit of balcony than
it had enjoyed at any of the preceding concerts.
The bride wore heliotrope glace silk, and her
abundant tresses in a circular puff off her forehead.
About six tendrils stretched like honey-pots all
a-row on the bride’s pretty brow, and a diamond
crescent beaconed on top of the black thatch.
The latest rings were displayed'on playful hands
that were in view all the evening. Lady Hutton,
in white silk, diamonds and smiles, is a showy
figure beside the ta.me Excellency, who had a red
coiled velvet and diamond ornament standing up
on her head, two or three inches above her crown
coiffure. Mrs: Charlie Mitchell, a striking-
looking brunette, is the pick of the Melba family
party.
“Her Worship Mayoress Gillott, and Mrs.
Charlie Ryan, both newly back from the Corona-
tion, figured among the most stared-at of the
Saturday Melba concert. The confident Mayoress
wore her teazed hair parted at the side and
bridged by a diamond clasp, and carried diamonds
about her black garb. Mrs. Ryan, who always
returns from the Big Smoke with new ideas, was
radiant about the North Pole, where a silver-
spangled ornament shone as resplendent as
diamonds.
. “ ‘ Myoora ’on the day of a concert is wrapped
in holy quiet. No visitors are admitted, no
friends granted a rollicking boudoir chat.
‘Madame rests,’ says the butler in noiseless
slippers and a respectful ice-bound manner. The
birds make a great fuss in the trees round the
house. They chirp, carol, throw up cascades of
sound, as if to serenade their rival. Presently
the chorus in the trees dies down and the ripple
of harp-strings breaks on the ear. Signorina
Sassoli makes music in the drawing-room. She
sits in the same absorbed, still, lip-locked manner
as on the concert platform. You can look and
listen. She does not notice or does not care.
Her fingers snap the chords, caress them, flash
and quiver in the wake of a melody. The little
round-faced harpist plays so for hours, her head
pressed against the harp’s gilt side.
“ Tenor Kirby is reckoned the luckiest warbler
of these parts since Melba applauded in public,
and praised in public, his silvery notes. Lady
Silverlocks gave the tenor a chance at the dinner
given in Melba’s honor at Stonington, and the
Clarke family were keenly anxious for his credit.
The ewe lamb of the house has declared posi-
tively ‘I think Kirby deserves his chance.’ On
this occasion he did himself justice, and Melba
said he had notes worth London circulation.
Again, the Mars Buckleys (of chiffon wealth)
feted the diva, and threw in a Kirby tootle. The
tenor again rose to the occasion, and Melba ex-
pressed approval.
“ * Excuse the question, ’ said Melba, ‘ but I’m
a practical woman. How much have you got ? ’
Tenor Kirby nearly fell off his perch, but managed
to tell the abrupt and splendidly frank star how
much he had in his stocking. ‘That’s right.
You’ll do. I ’ve seen too many heartrending cases
of stranded singers drifting to starvation and the
workhouse.’ Melba shuddered as she spoke,
snapped her eyelids on the picture, then broke
into cheeriness again. ‘ Yes, you’ll do. I’ll have
introductions for you to those worth while, and
when I return London-wards I’ll take care of you.
In the meantime, come and see me. Come and
sing for me.’ Tuesday (7th) was fixed upon.
“The Henry O’Haras were among the naice
few whom the Woman of All Importance con-
descended to honor with a special visit. In
making the arrangements, Melba stipulated ‘No
party, please ! I want a romp.’ Dr. O’Hara’s
house, which Palotta used to grace, is just the
one for the jolly larks the diva cried for.
“Melba’s visit to the Children’s Hospital had
some humorous incidental happenings. In the
morning, when her sister (Mrs. Patterson) sent
word to accept the invitation the committee had
quietly forwarded to her, there was a violent rush
of preparations. A hasty extra polish was given
to the polished floors, and somebody promptly
telephoned to Allan’s for a tuner to put the hos-
pital piano in order, as though the songstress had
undertaken to give a matinee recital. But when
the exciting visitor came to hand (without her
music), and did the rounds, and put down her
cheque for £lOO, the committee quite forgot to
offer her even a cup of tea for her trouble. Some
tea had been prepared, but it wasn’t until their
guest had gone that the hostesses recovered them-
selves sufficiently to give thought to the refresh-
ments. Then they tea-ed with great enthusiasm.
“Melba sent a cheque for £2O for a box at the
Lewis Benefit. The day of the announcement
there was a violent rush for the box-plan, and
every seat in the circle was eagerly marked off.
Before the afternoon of the performance, the
public learnt that Melba wasn’t to be in evidence,
but the tide couldn’t turn back, and so the
Theatre Royal was packed from floor to ceiling.
Miss Mitchell, all in black, slid into the box with
a friend at the last moment. A ‘Melba’ posy
was to be presented, but the diva’s sister begged
for it to be given after the show when she would
take it home to Madame. The Mitchells like to
take thines unexcitedlv.
“Miss Unie Russell’s ‘Parthenia,’ on Friday,
was a dainty performance. The lily fairness
of the novice, and her ethereal beauty, helped
the big audience to understand the subjugation of
the barbarian ‘lngomar.’ Miss Russell’s light
musical voice was at its best in pastoral and
poetical passages, but failed to give adequate
weight to one or two tragic situations. Her
‘Parthenia ’ is good, but the ‘Ophelia’ she
essayed some time ago was better, for she has the
physical as well as the histrionic parts for that
role.
“ The superb pearls Melba always wears were a
gift. How, when, why, where presented does not
transpire.
“Treasurer Shiels, the other day, in a Te Deus
speech after the elections, dropped the pearl: ‘ I
dislike the tinsel clink of the empty compliment.’
Clink ! Clink ! How does his tinsel clink !
“ Three ladies, who had caught the idea at
’Ome, are now to be seen pretty frequently on
Melb. Block with sandalled feet. One, in particu-
lar, possesses a very neat pair of tootsies, which
she encases in “toed” stockings. She and her
companions are undeviating in their adherence to
the imported fashion, and do not allow even teem-
ing rain to interfere. And to the mere male, the
custom has very much to commend it when the
toed stockings are compared with the large un-
compromising goloshes of a rainy day.
“T’other day, a well-known society charmer
staying at Melbourne’s most fashionable caravan-
serai surprised a supercilious johnny, in the cor-
ridor of the hotel, by leaping on to his shoulders
and asking him to give her a pick-a-back ride.
‘But—er—that is to say,’ he stammered, ‘I —er
—l—l—have only known you since—er—this—
ah—morning.’ ‘ 0, that’s all right,’ said the lady,
digging her heels into him.
“The list of the Watt-Williams wedding-
presents was sadly mixed up and afforded a page
of humorous reading. - There were night-dress
bags, and cigarette cases, and silk petticoats and
shaving requisites, all printed as ‘presents re-
ceived by the bride.’
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


HAVE YOU A BACKACHE?
Perhaps it is just a weary ache across the small of the back.
Perhaps it is a tender soreness—sometimes dull, sometimes sharp and griping.
Perhaps it is a shooting, piercing, agonising pain—like a knife stab in your back.
But all backaches mean DANGER.
Backaches mean danger from a feeble system and diseased kidneys—unless you build up your strength and
give health to your kidneys with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
They purify the blood—drive the pain and deadly poison from the kidneys—brace up the spine.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills give ease and strength and health to .tired backs. They’ll cure your backache,
too. Try them to-day.
SYDNEY MAN CURED. “ Kidney and bladder troubles save me the most agonising pains in my back for years,”
says Mr. T. Capper, 168 Woolloomooloo St., Sydney. “ The kidneys failed to filter out the impurities in my blood, and at
last I had to go to the Hospital. Here I was treated for several months, but later on the dull backache and the sharp,
stabbing pains returned. All night long the pains continued, and I hardly ever got proper rest. I read how Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills oured kidney troubles, and began taking them. It took seven boxes to cure me, but now my health is splendid.
My kidneys work well, every pain has vanished, and my appearance has greatly improved.”
Sold by retailers and by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney, 2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d. post free.
I
%
%
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Sang Gal. “ What’s in a name ?”
Apropos a variety of things. Why does
Baron Brassey spell his name with an “e ” ? It is
both superfluous and misleading.
All the Hebrews in N.S.W. Leg. Assem-
bly (three) voted for the vote of censure on the
See Government because it released Hebrew
Friedman.
With the luck or perspicacity common to
the R.C. bishop, Dr. Gibney, of Perth, owns the
freehold of some of the richest tin-bearing country
on the Greenbushes field.
Charles E. Newcombe died the other day,
aged 94. He arrived in Sydney in 1828, and has
been filling public billets, from post-office clerk to
police magistrate, ever since—or rather till super-
annuated.
Obit. : At Dunedin (M.L.), Franz D.
Siedeberg, one of the pioneers of the gold-dredging
industry. He took the top rail off the fence, and
cleared the way for others who were more success-
ful than himself.
Byron Adams, killed by an unusually
audacious whale at Norfolk Island, a little while
ago, was in the direct line of the old mutineers.
He was also boss of the island till Governor
Hampden swooped down on him.
The crowing on the Kyabramapootra ash-
heap when its boss rooster, Sammy Lancaster,
headed the poll was something to be remembered.
Samuel is a very solid old Methodist and has all
the elements of a shocking Parliamentary failure.
Labor candidate Findley, the alleged
“ Foul Libeller of the King,” scored more votes
last week for Melbourne East than he got at the
bye-election a year ago. Reverence for the Lord’s
Anointed has seemingly weakened in the mean-
time.
Obit: Alfred William Finch Noyes, best
known of Riverina doctors, for 45 years surgeon
of the Deniliquin Hospital, and a good, all-round
public man. Most of his many daughters married
big landholders of the district.
Premier See wired to John Norton, asking
him to return from Melbourne in time for the
want-of-confidence motion in N.S.W. Assembly.
John did return —to denounce See and co. But
that was only natural. Who on earth owes so
much to juries as does John Norton ?
Miss Coutts, now a Baroness, advanced
part salary and part travelling allowance to Bishop
Augustus Short, the first Bishop of Adelaide, on
account of the ecclesiastical poverty of Australia.
The recent gaitered gathering at Adelaide looked
rather better fed than its predecessor.
Victorian Minister for Lands McKenzie is
totally blind, and has to be led about the corridors
of the House by his secretary, who is also respon-
sible for keeping him up to date in all political
news. With the exception of Frank Madden, he
is probably the most Tory member of the House.
It was said of him once : “If he were only deaf
and dumb too, what an ideal Conservative he
would be ! ”
THE SORDID BILL AGAIN.
“Queen or the Belgians.— On hearing of the sad
news from the Belgian Consul, the Acting Prime
Minister, on behalf of the Federal Government,
despatched an official message of sympathy to the
King of the Belgians.”
AUSTRALIA : “ Don’t take on so, old man—the
Brlgians ’ll soon get another Queen all
right; and, by the way, who pays for that
message?”
Memo, for whom it may concern. When
the public sees one man kissing another man,
whether on the cheek, or on the hand, it doesn’t
recall the exquisite courtesies of the ancien regime
or anything of that sort. It only thinks of Judas
Iscariot and says “ Faugh ! ” under its breath.
How opinions change ! A. W. Hamilton,
ignominiously rejected at Bendigo last election
because he was suspected of being a pro-
Boer, was returned at the head of the poll last
Wednesday, leading old member Bailes by 114
votes. Ex-member Lazarus—good, old, Jingo
Lazarus—came third.
“ Save me from my friends ! ” Lawyer
Gaunson to Mr. Panton, P.M., just before thro wing
up his brief in the Kew (Vic.) Asylum Inquiry:
“As God is my judge, you are grossly biassed and
unfair. I tell you this because I have a great
affection for you.” Panton'merely desired him
to get on with the case.
One of the most consistent of Melbourne’s
law courts loungers is a deaf and dumb man, who
sits stolidly through all the sensational cases and
studies them intently from beginning to end. At
intervals, he disappears from his customed haunts
and puts in his time in the gallery of either the
Federal or the State Parliament.
Of course it is not a very important
matter, but Mr. J. S. T. M‘Gowen, leader of
N.S.W. Labor party, should say “aye” or
“nay” to the allegation of the Freetrade press
that he is building a terrace of nine houses by
contract labor. He should at least show that the
day labor principle is intended for private as well
as public consumption.
The Bulletin’s London correspondent:—
King Dick has long outstayed his welcome, and his lot
now is naught but journalistic jibes and jeers ; jaw-dislo-
cating yarns and “ Will he never go ? ” are seen and heard
all round. Of course, he kept the M.L. troops back for
his last jig with the stage to himself, and, though the men
were all anxious to see the Rock, Port Said and Colombo,
R.J.S. drags them as his body-guard back S’Africawards.
The reason of this may develop later.
Duncan Gillies, now close on 70, who is
suggested as the next Victorian Speaker, has
dwindled of late into a bundle of reminiscences,
with a great predilection for the lounge, and a
habit of totally misunderstanding the progress ot
affairs in the Assembly. If he becomes Speaker
it will be mainly as a reward for old age.
Gruesome falling-tree incident from Cairns
(Q.). James Stanley, 64, was struck by a falling
tree, and not discovered till 24 hours afterwards.
The tree contained bees’-nests, and, when found,
the unfortunate man was covered with bees and
green ants. He died shortly afterwards in the
hospital, never having regained consciousness.
The talky P. J. Gandon, Grand Panjan-
drum of Sydney School of Arts Debating Society,
has challenged Miss Vida Goldstein to publicly
discuss with him the woman-suffrage question.
The challenge having been accepted, the foolish
Gander goes to Melbourne to haggle with tne
adorable Vida. “Never argue with a woman.”
Only once before in Victorian criminal
history has the plea of pregnancy been put for-
ward by a female convict as a reason for stay of
execution. In ’95, Emma Williams, who drowned
her baby in Port Melb. lagoon, tried to stave
off the hangman by this plea, but three doctors
decided against her, and the law took its usual
course.
The swelled head of Maoriland Premier
Seddon passes all ordinary human dimensions.
“ Have you learned anything during your visit to
this country which may be useful to the people of
Maoriland ? ” he was asked by a Leeds Mercury
interviewer. “Nothing at all,” cheerfully replied
Richard; “ there is very little we have to learn.”
Then an abashed interviewer withdrew. He felt
he had met God.
J. A. Boyd, the re-elected Tory member
for Melbourne, was one time an A.B. in the British
navy, and for years served before the mast in
merchantmen. Taken under the wing of a brither
Scot, he rapidly pushed to the front, and now
runs a skin store. In politics Boyd has gone the
way of all fat. Graduating as a Socialistic can-
vasser for Dr. Maloney, he is now a professor of
Argus doctrines.
The Australasian went to the extreme of
slaver and truckle when, in a recent cartoon, it
represented Irvine, Shiels and Bent as angels of
light. The figures were seriously drawn, standing
in a great radiance, with haloes and big wings
complete, while Opposition candidates strove
vainly to enter the heaven they adorned. Tommy
Bent as a winged angel is surely the wildest flight
of Tory imagination.
Late J. T. Sadler, 8.A., M.L.A. for
Grenville (Vic.), who died of phthisis, was a fine
example of self-taught Australian manhood. Born
at Illabrook, in ’63, he found himself at 14 (the
sole support of a widowed mother and several
young brothers and sisters—a duty lie never
shiijced to the end. At 17 he went to Creswick,
then in the heyday of mining prosperity, and
when the Australasian Mine was flooded and 20
comrades perished, young Sadler, was one of the
rescuing party. While engaged as a miner he
qualified for and got a position as a State school
teacher. That he held for 16 years, winning the
B.A. degree at the University during his peda-
gogue days. His political career was short, only
commencing in 1900.
Boulder City (W.A.), better
known as Hopkinsville, is run by three
brothers —Jack, Jim, and Murd Hop-
kins. The youngest (Jack), after being
thrice Mayor, now sits in the State
House for the city. Jim is Mayor now
and secretary to the Boulder Racing
Club, auctioneer, and a licensing
magistrate. Murd, the eldest, is a
Melb. ’Varsity graduate in engineer-
ing. The three are known as the
“ Dynasty. ”
T. J. Thallon, the new Q. Rail-
way Commissioner entered the service
some years ago as general traffic
manager, and no sooner settled down to
make order out of chaos than the then
Minister interfered and refused to have
his beloved cobwebs brushed down.
Thallon threw up the billet, and joined
the Victorian service. A few months
afterwards he was invited to return,
and was promised cordial support in
, any reforms he cared to effect. Since
then he has often acted as Acting-Commissioner
for his predecessor, Gray.
Speaker Nicholas Brown (Tasmania), who
will be 64 on Oct. 9, is a native of Hobart and
was Minister of Lands there 15 years ago; the
martial and immortal George R. Dibbs will be
68 on Oct. 12; Guy Boothby (born in Adelaide),
35 on Oct. 13} Representative Bonython (Ade-
laide Advertiser), 54, and Judge Hartley Wil-
liams (V.), 59, on Oct. 15 ; “ Mr. James ” Fair-
fax (Sydney Morning Herald), 68 on Oct. 17;
President Wrixon (V.), 63 on Oct. 19; Trade
Minister Kingston, 52 on Oct, 22; ex-Premier
Peacock, 44 on Oct. 25; Premier Lewis (T.), 44
on Oct. 27 ; Judge Boucaut (S.A.), 71 on Oct. 29,
and Larry Harnett, something on Oct. 31.
SENATOR “ EWE-LAMB ” EWING.
“Joe” Woolf, the Melb. solicitor and brother
of the divorce-court barrister, is the only Austra-
lian who can decorate his chest with the French
order of Officier d’Academie. The bauble was
allotted him for special services as legal adviser
for France in Victoria, where alas ! its glory goes
for nothing. Now, if he were to visit New
Caledonia lawyer Joe would be entitled to salutes
from the local police.
Phil. Mennell points out in the British
Australasian that whilst there are some 40 ex-
Premiers of the Australian States now living,
there are but three surviving ex-Prime Ministers
of Maoriland. Amongst the latter is G. M.
Waterhouse, who has the rare distinction of
having been Prime Minister in two States —South
Australia and M.L. The two others are John
Hall and Robert Stout.
The last two elections for South Yarra
(Vic.) have been confined to parties of the name
of Harris, and the old Tory Harris has got home
each time, probably on the strength of his more
familiar Christian name—Joseph. South Yarra
feels that if it must take a Harris it might as well
re-elect the original member of the clan. If the
Labor candidate were named Gamp the result
would, perhaps, be different.
Stated to a judge by a prisoner in S.A.
that his lawyer, after unsuccessfully defending
him, had obtained a judgment in the local court
for the amount of his fee (£2), and served an
execution upon him in gaol ! “ From him that
hath not shall be taken away even that which lie
hath.” As he declared that he had previously
sent the fee along, the Attorney-General was
directed to inquire into the matter.
Vic. ex-Minister of Mines Outtriin, the
ejected of Maryborough, was perhaps the best
log-roller a Vic. electorate has ever lost—better
even than Kerferd, member for Beechworth in
the 80’s. Maryborough’s Brobdignagian railway
station will always be looked upon as Outtrim’s
masterpiece; but the town has had (so tradition
says) three courthouses in a decade, the last ex-
ceedingly better than the first; and the political
pickings have been many and costly, including a
School of Mines. The only public institution
Outtrim forgot to secure for Maryborough was a
Lunatic Asylum, and that lost him his seat.
Puttrim’s other peculiarity was that he was always
conspiring in Parliament against both parties—in
fact, he seldom had less than three dark machina-
tions on hand at once.
A pathetic incident at the Victorian Labor
demonstration over the party’s victories at the
general election was the presence of the erst'while
dapper Hussar officer and Socialist, H. H. .Cham-
pion, now paralysed and almost helpless, with the
appearance of a very old man. He was assisted
to a seat by his wife and secretary Barker. Tom
Mann, who spoke, feelingly referred to his early
associations with Champion.
Not recorded in Queensland Hansard :
Lesina : Some of the best railway commissioners in
Australia knew nothing about railways before their
appointment.
Leahy : On that ground you would be well qualified for
the position.
Lesina: Yes, and for exactly the same reason the non.
gentleman is eminently fitted for the position of Minister
for Railways. The hon. gentleman should recollect that,
prior to becoming a Minister, his experience was largely
confined to the romantic occupation of pulling a beer-
handle.
“ Veteran,” on a personal matter :
G. H. Reid, speaking about the Commonwealth mili-
tary estimates, called General Hutton “an absolutely
competent and distinguished s >.dier,” who, added the
Dry Dog man, “ will make the best use of the money we
vote.” How does George know that? Also, when, where,
and how has Hutton distinguished himself? He was in
the ’79-’Bl Zulu war—not a very “distinguishing busi-
ness.” He went to Egypt in ’B2, and, according to Black-
wood, helped old General Hamley to get his horse over
the ditch at Tel-el-Kebir. In the Soudan trouble, ’B4-5,
he was “D.A.A.G. on the line of communication”—
hurrying up the tucker. He had a brigade command for
a short time in S’Africa. His competence may be best
judged by its results, the training he gave the N.S.W.
army, and the way the officers he selected for the late
contingents panned out on board the Drayton Grange.
If, as is very unlikely, Selina Sangal is
hanged after the birth of her child, she will be the
fifth woman who has been officially suspended in
Victoria. The other four were Elizabeth Scott,
who instigated David Gedge and Julian Cross to
murder her husband as he lay in his tent suffering
from delirium-tremens; Martha Needle, the
poisoner ; Emma Williams, the child murderess ;
and Martha Knorr, the baby-farmer. Elizabeth
Scott, the first woman executed in Victoria, was
hanged with her accomplices, at Melbourne gaol,
on 11th Nov- 1863. Says a contemporary ac-
count :
As the woman was brought out an exclamation of sur-
prise broke from the bystanders that one so young and
amiable in aspect should have been the prime mover in
so Horrible a deed. Scott was neatly dressed in a black
stuff gown and wore her train carefully tended. She
appeared quite innocent, and submitted to the pinioning
process with an air of almost jaunty indifference, taking
care that the rope did not interfere with the folds of hot-
dress. She alone of the three preserved an air of the
most perfect unconcern.
Victorian ex-Speaker, Francis Conway
Mason, who lost his seat for Gippsland South,
had been a member since 1871, with only one
break. He was elected to the chair in 1897, and
was a sound Speaker. The Ministry played him
a dirty trick in the late contest. Nominally, he
was the Ministerial candidate, but privately the
members of the Government did all they could to
put him out in favor of his opponent, who was
also a Ministerialist. John M‘lntyre, rejected at
Maldon, had been in Parliament since 1877.
Harry R. Williams, known as “Boy Harry,’’also
badly licked, was another 1877 man. He was an
ex-Minister for Railways, and the best Greek
scholar that has ever had a seat in the Victorian
Parliament.
Trenwitli s defence to the pending libel
action by Auk journalist Fox must have come as a
horrible surprise to David Syme. Trenwith’s
solicitor has drawn up a statement of defence
which practically amounts to an attack on Syme.
The ex-Minister of Vic. Railways will come into
court asserting that “Since the plaintiff has been
employed on the staff of the Age he has habitually
taken instructions from the proprietor, editor,
sub-editor, and leader of staff as to the policy
which he is to advocate, and as to the complexion
and color he is to put on facts and occurrences. . .
Plaintiff’s conduct as paid writer for the Age has
been cunning, astute, dexterous and crafty.
Because of a private grudge by the Age proprietor
against defendant, plaintiff proceeded to collect
and publish items of information calculated to
damage defendant as administrator of the railway
system of Victoria.” The public is going to get
some fun out of Trenwith’s line of defence.
“ Charlie ” Andrews, one of the members
for Geelong, is the man who comes best out of the
Victorian election. Amidst a mass of grovellers,
he stands out as a shining example of uprightness.
Andrews was a previous supporter of Irvine, who
voted against the iniquitous proposal to let the
wealthy man go free while the necessary funds for
the State’s needs were stolen from the pockets of
the public servants. Some of his constituents and
the Government demanded that he should go
back on his vote. He point-blank refused, and
wrote a letter to his constituents, in which he said
he was not going “ to recant and grovel for all the
Governments, constituents, press, leagues, clubs
and cliques in the world.” In spite of the
bitterest opposition, he succeeded in regaining his
place, and has now taken a seat on the Opposition
benches. When everybody else was rushing to
worship the rising sun, Andrews, the solitary
exception, not only kicked the rising sun with
enthusiasm, but made a profit out of doing it.


WEAK-SI(SNT€D REAPERS^-
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing with comfort, whose distant vision is dull
and who suffer from persistent headaches or pains after close
application— you may rest assured that you are suffering from
Ag-eing or Impaired Vision, and Need Glasses” You
snould visit us and have your sight scientifically tested, and
be supplied with Glasses adapted to your individual case.
11> COUNTRY READERS who cannot visit us personally, we send ... „ .
tions and Price List, our.marvellously.accurate and popular SELF SIGhV-MEASUSINC^PATENT^ h fu i 1 r l^ sfcruc ’
50U Write T fo S f ° r the st * le and quality of the &££s£ mayweed* ™
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Consulting Optician.
371 George St., Sydney,
And at 232 COLLI IMS ST., MELBOURNE, opposite Age Office.
next door to the A.J.S. Bank.
King and George streets.
DAVID STORER & SONS’ ln Th ™° Colors-BLAOK, BED and BLUE
Registered
Trade
Mark.
TATTOO OIL
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking or
The Perfect Sheep-Marker, SHEEP BRANDING OIL
Kept toy ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Aboriginalities.
To .Coxthibutoub.— ln the case of ethnological and
mlitral-hislory items, etc., always give date and
ylace of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many .interesting observations will have scientific value.
More drought literature :
Drought conditions on the Liverpool Plains (N.S.W.),
where many famous sheep-breeding' stations are situated,
are \ ery serious. There is hardly any sheep grass yet.
and artificial feeding is still going bn. On Collaroy,
Brindley Park, Dalkeith and several other places the
mortality approximates to 75 per cent. ; most squatters
think themselves lucky if they have only lost half their
nocks Jlardly a lamb has survived ; 3 per cent, would
be a liberal estimate of this season’s lambing. With many
pastoralists it has become a question of saving a few
thousands of the breed which, after 30 or 40 years of selec-
tion, they have made famous. The losses here are
especially disastrous, because the sheep are exceptionally
well bred, and also because great numbers of them have
' , after eating away their value in fodder. Ulinda,
'Veelabbah, and scores of stations from Quirindi north-
wards are getting beef from Sydney by the ton; the
meat supply has been exhausted for weeks. Practically
all the large stock that have not been fed have suc-
cumbed. Warrah estate has been employing 50 teams to
bring out fodder from Werris Greek. Liens on stock are
unheard of just now ; stock is not considered a security.
* * * •
A Gregory (Q.) paper reports that Under-
wood Bros, of Mudgee (N.S.W.), purchased
10,000 bullocks from Brunette Downs (Q.) at
£2 15s. per head, and later on sent 4000 of the
best to the southern markets in small lots, which .
sold up to £l3 per head. What fortunes might
be made by spelling a few paddocks through good
seasons, and buying from pinched quarters in
drought time !
• * * *
“ Boko ’ : On the Richmond River
(N.S.W.), at the present moment and during last
seven or eight months, a record good season and a
record drought have only been from 10 to 12 miles
apart as the crow flies. About Bangalow and in
towards the coast they have had such a good time,
with big prices and plenty of feed, that the
farmers have almost forgotten how to growl.
Above Casino, on the TJpper Richmond, some
places have not registered four inches of rain
during last seven months, in lieu of usual 40 odd
during same period. Breeding cattle are being
practically wiped out, and dry stock will follow
if rain does not fall shortly in quantity. Birds
and trees are dying everywhere. Beef is at famine
prices and almost unprocurable. In many parts
of the hush so much timber has been felled to keep
cattle alive that it is almost impossible to ride
through it.
REAL SPORT.
The John (up for a day or two’s sport): “ Awl
I suppose there is plenty of shooting and
fishing about this quartah ? ”
The Liar: “ Wail, ther ain’t too much shootin',
but fishin’, yer carn’t go wrong; ketch ’em.
without bait or ’ooks.”
The J. : “ Wemarkable; but hoio do you do it?"
The L. : “ Well, things hav’ bin so flamin' dry
round ' ere yer just wait till ther fish cum up
to the pub. fer a drink, then sool yer dog
at them; but us blokes on’y knock ’em over
wid sticks."
“ Alpar ” : A splitter, at Bermagui
(N.S.W.), had, a tame magpie that could talk to
the purpose. The man was getting out posts and
rails half-a-mile from his house; and Maggie
would fly up every day at dinner-time and return
with him. One day he was walking towards bis
coat to put it on, when Mag, aloft on a wattle,
sang out, “Look out, Dad! look out!” Dad
looked out and found a 2ft. death-adder that he
must have trodden upon had he not been w irned.
This was told me by the man himself. He had
been in the police, and knew the nature of an
oath.
The latest demand of the Victorian mallee
farmers is that Government shall provide
them with free grazing in Gippsland for* their
starving stock, that a Departmental officer shall
skirmish round the Crown land in that district and
find the rich grazing patches they want, and that
each farmer who sends one truck-load shall have a
free pass to go and watch his stock putting on
flesh in its customary gradual manner. The
mallee farmer is none too happy just now, without
a doubt, but what sort of a time would he have
if the whole State had been reserved for the
“great natural industries,” and there had been
no manufacturing population to fall back upon for
assistance ?
* * * *
They bpgin to smell a possible volcano in
Victoria. Says the Argus :
Some thirty years ago (writes our Lismore corres-
pondent) several times a rumbling sound was heard at
Mount Elephant on clear days. It was like distant
thunder, and loose stones were said to roll down without
any visible cause. During the last month the noise has
again been heard. At Mount Widderin, four miles from
Slnpton, near the top of the mount, there is a small
cavern. In the old days the air in this cavern was quite
warm. It is now as hot, if not hotter than ever. It is
not a very inviting place to go into, as a large stone at
the mouth appears to be balanced on a pivot, and the
least shake would knock it over and block up the en-
trance. Dogs go in freely, and if they stay in for a
minute they come out panting, and seem very much dis-
tressed by the heat. There are several large caves close
to the mount that are easily penetrated for half-a-mile or
more, but hot air has never been found in them ; in fact
as a rule, it is very cold. Naturally people are wondering
what is the cause of this hot air coming from this rent
near the top of the mount.
* '» * «
“ Weals man ” : The cock lyre-bird is la
marvellous mimic of artificial as well as natural
sounds. Have heard him mimic the crack of a
bullock-whip, the tapping of the paling-splitters’
mallet, the “chock-clock” of dray wheels, and
was once decoyed half a mile into the worst wire-
grass and supple-jack country in Victoria by the
song of a cross-cut saw sung by the “liar’’-bird.
* * * *
Violent language from “A MalleeCockie”:
lie statement (B. 13/9/’O2) to the effect that cockies
object to old age pensions because the patriarch of 60 or
70 who used to do their odd jobs for a couple of shillings
a week and a bite are thereby cockered up to demand
7s. 6d., the same is mostly nonsense. A cockie mvself I
know dozens, scores, of other cockies. Never heard
one object to old age pensions yet. Never knew a cockie
employ a man between 65 and 70 years of age. A man is
no good on a farm at that age. Will wager all the drought
has left me—it is not much—that on a thousand Aus-
tralian farms you can’t find 20 old men employed, and the
old age pensioner, as I know him, is never anything but
a beer-sodden wreck, who would be overpaid with his
tucker, for he can’t earn it.
Beer must be cheap and attainable in the mallee
when a man, who is poor enough to qualify for a
pension, can be sodden with that usually inacces-
sible substance.
~ *
“ Vuna” : There was a great scarcity
ofwhite women in Fiji up to ’72. A planter
often commissioned the master of a trading
vessel to bring him a better-half from Syd-
ney. The parties were introduced as soon
as the ship arrived, and if they agreed they
were married quickly. On one occasion a
skipper, in pursuance of the order, brought
down a prim spinster of 30, and left the
pair together in the saloon. On returning
in 15 minutes he found that absolute silence
prevailed, the lady sitting bolt upright at
one end of the saloon and the man at the
41 Oh, then, ” said the mariner, “the
affair is off, and I must take the lady back
to Sydney.” “Not at all,” was the plan-
ters prompt response, “we’re to be mar-
ried at noon to-morrow.” A servant girl,
who accompanied a missionary and his wife
from Sydney, received six offers of mar-
riage within one week of her arrival, and
her services were speedily lost to her em-
ployers. Ihe most wide-awake bride of
the period was an attractive young widow
at Levuka, who use to sit at her piano on
fine nights opposite an open window with
the moonlight streaming on her face as she
warbled sentimental ballads, with her hair
all hanging down her back. The bachelor
population to a man were at her feet. Some
Rj planters, mostly living in neighboring
islands, laid periodical siege to her, and she
was cleyer enough to keep on such good
terms with them all that, when she finally
ran-in the British Consul (the biggest catch
in the Archipelago), the 15 rejected suitors
assembled by appointment and built her a
house to take the place of the one she had
formerly occupied with her mother. As a
beach-comber said ofthe widdy, “ She war
a level-headed sort, she war. ”
, “Via”: Be trees lifting dead weights
( R-P-. 9/11/’01). _ In a Brisbane suburb a young
peach-tree is pushing its vigorous way through
the interstices of a tank’s wooden stand (on wooden
piles 3ft. from the ground). Although the tree is
not yet 15 months above ground it has lifted that
stand half-an-mch off the piles at one end, and
unless chopped down it will, beyond doubt, try
the Atlas (or tank) trick until gravity comes to its
aid.
* * * •
“Wanda”; Be Ernest Favenc’s recent
article :
B-.W 2 . on rock-drawings; I have wandered round
the N.W. corner of Australia, and found it to be an un-
derstood thmg amongst the old identities of that region
that castaway whites had lived and died amongst the
blacks at some hygoneperiod. Were they the rock-artists?
0l " were principally retired pearlers or
slave-catchers (for pearling fleets, stations, etc.); and as
all their pearl-hshing and slave-catching was done alone
the coast between Nor’-west Cape and Cambridge Gulf
presumably they got their information from the” blacks
on end bunted, slaved, and consorted with for years
• * * *
“Jap ” : Be shoeing bullocks (“ Vril.” B
30/11/’01). In the mountainous parts of the
Murray district the rough nature of the country
makes this necessary. The shoes are old horse-
shoes cut in two and tacked on with four nails
a-side.
CIVILISATION'S PENALTY.
" An inspector is to be appointed to visit Sydney Zoo once a
week.”— DAILY PAEER.
JOAN (hopefully): “ What is it, Darby? a packet o' peanuts? ”
DARBY (disgustedly): “No such luck. It's a summons for
keepin' dirty premises."
“R.A.” : There are many sawmills around
Narandera (N.S.W.), and, as the timber used is
mostly off Crown Lands, the “Forest Rangers”
have to ascertain if the mill-owner’s count of
“ stumps” tallies with the entries in his log-book.
Now, as every tree taken from Crown Lands costs
the sawmills 2s. 6d., irrespective of size, he is often
a bit “absent-minded.” A short time ago a
certain mill proprietor received an unexpected
visit from a Ranger, who, noting the big stock of
green timber in the yard, was satisfied the log-
book submitted did not represent the actual
fellings ; so, intimating that he was going into the
adjoining area to count the stumps, he borrowed
a pat of blue for marking, and started counting
from, say north to south. The mill-owner, how-
ever, rode away round to the south and blue-
marked a lot of stumps in that direction, and
when the perspiring Ranger suddenly found him-
self among marked stumps—being conscious of his
own lack of bushcraft—he concluded that lie had
been travelling in a circle ; and when he got back
to the mill with the sunset, cursing, he had to
acknowledge that the log-book was correct.
* • * *
“D.H.R.”: Met a man out West who,
to avoid being pestered with flies while at work,
plastered his back with treacle.
* » * #
“ Pakeha ” : Was present once at a Maori
korero in the interior of the North Island, when,
in the midst of their heathenish capers, someone
started a Maori song to
an old English hymn-
tune and the whole crowd
joined in with great
gusto. No doubt the tune
was taught them by mis-
sionaries before the war,
and when afterwards they
reverted to heathenism
this simple air remained
as a mere piece of Chris-
tian wreckage. TheM.L.
bush-wren (Xenicus long-
ipes) seems to havepassed
through a similar experi-
ence. What tunes he
used to stock I don’t
know, but in these de-
generate days he whistles
only the fag-end of a
Sankey air, which he re-
peats in an absent-
minded way, until an
influx of recollections
abruptly stops him on
the last note but one,
• * ♦
“Talking of these
yer aliens,” said Martin,
as he shook the match-
box, thoughtfully, “puts
me in mind of a half-
caste up Warialda way.
Half Chow; his mother
an Irish woman ; and this
tar-brush cove could fight.
Said ’twas the Irish in him
that did it, and he won
several goes until his hat
got too small; but one
night at Mulligan’s he took
on a hard case and got ‘ jip ’
for about seven rounds. As
he was bein’ rubbed down
By his ‘cobber’ for the next
tussle, he said, sez he.
‘ Look here, Bill, this finishes me. All the
blanky Irish is knocked out. All that’s left is
the Chow strain, an'd that’s rotten.’ And true
as gospel it was, for he ups and fastens on to
the other fellow’s ear with his teeth, like a
tarrier, and they had to prize his mouth open
with a stick. No mixtures for me."
“ Lyn : ” When a young-
ster, I was one day gathering
geebungs from under a bush. I
noticed the shell of one fall to
the ground, and, looking up,
espied a grey death-adder
amongst the branches just above
my head. I stepped back
quietly and watched the adder,
which evidently did not see me.
It bit off the shell of a geebung,
let it fall to the ground, and
then devoured the pulp, leaving
the stone attached to the stem.
I let it have a fair meal, and
then stopped the course of
digestion with a stone. Again,
I was roaming about a swamp,
when I heard a frog croaking
very hard, and found it with
its front legs and head sticking
out of a hole. I tried to pull
it out, but at first couldn’t move
it; then it came all at once, and
with it a large death-adder,
which had froggy half-swal-
lowed. I dropped the lot
mighty quick, and cut away
with a month’s growth frigh-
tened out of me. The station-
master at Heathcote (N.S.W.)
had a somewhat similar expe-
rience. Heard his chickens
making a frightened noise, went
out, and saw in the middle of
the yard a large death-adder
with a chicken swallowed all
but its legs. The old hen was
going for the chicken - eater
right and left, especially for
its eyes, and the adder was
defenceless, for it could neither
completely swallow nor release
.the chicken.
“ Whistle C.” writes ;
I can confirm “Trotter” (B. 16/8/’O2) about the utter
futility of the Queensland Aborigines’ Protection Act.
For instance, any person (not holding a permit to .employ
aboriginals), who may be caught feeding or otherwise
benefiting a black, is liable to a heavy fine, though the
so-called Protectors do nothing in this way unless' finder
public pressure. Times were not so bad for the aborigines
before the Act came into force. They had liberty then;
now they have slavery and starvation. Those blacks
whom “Trotter” states he saw*working on the Tully for
a farm t, were—if only receiving tucker and tobacco—
getting more, at all events, than the paid Protectors give
them. At present the Queensland aborigine is between
two fires, and will be so until the present Protectors are
retrenched and the Q. A.P. Act abrogated in favor of a
more effective and more reasonable measure. As for the
diseases so common amongst the blacks, if you apply to a
sub-Protector for medicine for the unfortunates he writes
to the head-Protector and that is the last that is heard of
the application. Protector Mestbn wants to collect the
blacks to work on the sugar lands, while Protector Roth
wants to put them on an island where he can be monarch
of all the aborigines he surveys. My opinion is that,
paid Protectors should be abolished and their salaries and
expenses divided amongst the different C.P.S. districts
to buy rations and medicine for the blacks.
• » * •
White Cliffs undertaker, to hard-up opal-
gouger : “ What ! —£3 to dig the grave?” Hard-
up : “That’s the figure.” Undertaker: “Too
much ! —£3 ( \nd all the opal you find. Why,
they got 2oz, of £5 stuff when they planted old
Jimmy ! ”
A PROCESSION O.
THREE.
“But for a few rabbits we'd
starve ,” said a village settler.
“ It's a race for life. The dog after the rabbit
and me after the dog."


MART
“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
“Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
7;.j Lancet
17
YEARS
AGO
n WBBSxe.
W.E Sold SPOONS and FORKS to the Cafe Franeais, George-street, and they are good
to-day, and in daily use.
17 YEARS’ more experience enables us to offer Spoons and Forks of greater wearing
capacity to day.
THOSE we offer are MAPPT.N AND WEBB’S, of London, who make the MOST
HEA VILY PLATED of all the Spoons and Forks made in England.
WE are still selling them at their LONDON CATALOGUE PRICES.
London Prices.
Pla : n Figures.
Strictly Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 HUNTER STREET.
After a long battle the R.C.’s have, for
the time being, given the N. Territory best, and
have withdrawn their only resident priest.
Hitherto it has been “worked” from Adelaide;
but his lordship of Geraldton now tacks it on to
his own vast sheep (and goat—mainly goat) run,
promising to send out an occasional musterer.
* * * *
“ D.R.0.” : Was travelling in the ever-
lasting “ Backblox,” and, coming to a tank just as
I was about as thirsty a 3 I could be, I made no
bones of rushing to get a drink of the muddy stuff.
Then I was stopped by the following :
Lex Talionis ” : Cockies used to steal the
salt out of the troughs where it was laid for the
sheep. The station then put sulphur with it, so
as to render it useless to the cockies, who then
put arsenic in to equalise things. When the
sheep were found dead all round, the squatters
had to return to the pure salt, and that sort of
selector is again satisfied.
• « * *
“Cecil P.” : How many indigenous Aus-
tralian trees shed their leaves ? I start the list
with the white cedar and the silky oak.
* •» * *
The Mudgee (N.S.W.) Guardian, of Sep-
tember 25, laments the decrease of local crime in
the following par. :
The recent sitting of the Circuit Court was the shortest
on record, only lasting about 10 minutes. IntheGulgong
palmy days, we vvell remember when the circuit courts
repeatedly lasted three or four weeks at a time. On one
occasion, there were no less than four murder cases.
What a trade the local hotels did in those days, with
hundreds of witnesses, and police and jurymen present
m large numbers 1
Alas for the good old days !
THE LATE GEORGE HIGINBOTHAM.
Photo, by Johnstone O’Shannessy & Co., Melbourne.
“Silly B.”: Re patent medicines (8.,
19/10/’Jpl. I keep a country store, and when I
get a supply of a new kind of nostrum have a lob
of customers, who are certain buyers for a trial.
Then, again, I have those who won’t look at any-
thing but their one special pill or potion. As for
painkiller, every bushman uses it more or less.
Boozers use it as a pick-me-up; and, failing to
get it, Worcestershire sauce is the next favorite.
I knew a digger on the Peel River who
was never without a full supply of painkiller,
pain-paint, and Holloway’s pills and ointment.
He was a huge eater, and once wagered that he
could eat 24 hard-boiled eggs at a sitting. Did it
flying, and wanted to bet on eating another dozen,
but it wasn’t considered good enough. Called
once at a place where a woman had a prospecting-
dish full of plums. Was told to help himself, and
scoffed them all but half-a-dozen—which he left
“ for politeness’ sake,”
“Pyalla”: Be “huge circle made with
heaped-up earth,” inquired about by D.K.R.
(B. 31/8/’01): —
According to description, the place was probably used
for the aboriginal “ Bora,” or man-making ceremony, in
which, through frightful physical _ tortures, the status of
manhood was attained. The proximity of the circle to a
creek, the “ marked ” trees and the ground-drawings in
the neighborhood are sufficient evidence of th.s. L ioh-
ably “ D.E.R.” will also notice that the immediate district
has been thickly wooded, and that there is a hill near at
hand ; also that there is another, but much jmaller, circle
near the earth figures and marked trees. Some tribes
used the two circles. The tribes of the district m ques-
tion call the larger circle “boora,” and the smaller
“goonaba.” Tlie tree-markings—doubtless rude repre-
sentations of the wombat, opossum, iguana, snake, &e.—
are the totem-marks of the warriors. The large, raised-
ground drawing of a man’s figure represents Byama ( a
god or demi-god). The other earth-mounds or figures
are representations of the moon, fabulous monsters,
emus, ’roos, kc: In a paper read before N.S.W. Royal
Society, a colossal representation of Byama (found near
Bulgeraga Creek, N.S.W.) was described as “composed
entirely of raised earth, and 21ft. Bin. long, sft. 6in.
across, and arms 7ft. Bin. long. Height of the breast
above ground, Ift. 6in.”
. * * *
The M'Cooey : Be the white-backed “ mag-
pies,” of Cooma, N.S.W., recently mentioned in
Bulletin. There are two .species of so-called
magpies in N.S.W7— Gymnorlvna tibicen and
G. leuconotus (“ white-backed”). Tibicen (“ flute-
player”) ia characteristic enough, but Gymnorhina
(“ naked-nosed ”) is very vague as a generic name,
and would apply to numbers of other birds. The
nostrils are uncovered by feathers, that’s all \ but
so are those of all our butcher-birds, which ought
not to have been separated generically from our
“magpies.” The zoological nomenclature of
Australia is very misleading and uncouth.
* * * •
Obit. : Found dead in his paddock at
Strathroy (Tasmania), the highest-priced ram in
the Commonwealth, Mr. C. B. Grubb’s 1600
guinea-President.
* * * *
“X.” : The booming of exceptional shear-
ing tallies is not viewed with favor by bush unions.
Being exceptional, they give the public a false
impression as to the earnings of shearers, and kill
sympathy with the bush battlers. The general
shearer’s average earnings are about 255. or 30s. a
week all the year round.
Apropos of the recent dose of titles to the
Australian politicians. The late Geo. Higin-
bothani on knighthood (in a speech delivered
when seeking election for Enst Bourke Boroughs).
Knighthood is the lowest de-
gree of any order of merit
which the Crown can bestow.
It is an order which is entirely
separated and divorced from
any idea of personal merit in
the wearer. It has always
been given either as a mark of
otfi/;e or connected with office,
as where it is given to the
English Judges ; or to com-
memorate some interesting
event, as when the Queen
passed Temple Bar on a visit to
the Lord Mayor ; or when a new
heir to the Crown came into the
vvt rid. It is an order given
either to commemorate an
event or to mark an office.
These are the two purposes for
which knighthoods have always
been given ; and speaking of a
quarter of a century ago, about
which I know something more
than I do of the present ia Eng-
land, I think I may venture to
assert that at that time, at all
events, knighthood, although a
title of honor, was one of
so low a degree that the offer
of it to any middle-class Eng-
lish, Irish or Scotch gentleman
would have been regarded as
an affront. (Laughter.) Since
that time another order has
been added to that of knight-
hood—an order manufactured
expressly for colonial use. (Re-
newed laughter.) It is an
order called the Order of St.
Michael and St. George (a
laugh). We have been told by a
Secretary of State in one of his
despatches that this new order
has been constructed with such
consummate art that the
heralds—the College of Heralds
—are unable to say whether
the new knighthood is, or is
not, of baser degree than the
old one (laughter and cheers).
It would seem, gentlemen, that
they stand precisely on a
level in baseness(great laughter.
A voice : “ What has that gob
to do with us ? ” Uproar). I am sorry to say it has a
great deal to do with us (a voice : “We are here to hear
what you are going to do for Brunswick.” Another voice :
“Why don’t you ‘spake’ of your future opinions”). I
am compelled to say that the gift of these orders, or of
any orders, to the public men of a country which possesses
responsible government is of itself an illegal act. It is an
illegal means taken, as itseemed to me,in ordertosupport,
continue, and perpetuate an illegal claim of interference
in our affairs, and I very much regret that our public
men should not exhibit a greater disinclination to accept,
these contemptible distinctions. (Cheers.) However,
"Mr. Francis is not yet either a Knight of the old order or
a Knight of the order of St. Michael and St. George. He
can say “I only am left,” and perhaps he might add
“and they seek my life also”—(laughter)—for I/think it
is very likely that even now they are considering in
Downing-street whether Mr. Francis may not accept a
knighthood. (A voice : “He may get it.”) He has not
got it yet. I congratulate you on the fact that he has
nob yet received it, and I earnestly pray that the gods
may protect him from ever having the offer made.
(Cheers.)
The “life” of Francis was afterwards sought, but
not obtained.
NOTHING ELSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
T’M going to write—a poem if you will—
* At least I’ll make it scan and give it rhyme,
There’s nothing else that I can do to fill
Tedium’s dull void, or stuff the sides of time.
I don’t know wheel the deuce to write about,
So here goes for that theme perennial — woman.
There’s one beside me—there, my pipe’s gone out —
~ ~ i j „ 7 j
Reading a sermon by Archbishop Newman.
Her mouth is pretty, and has ne’er been kissed —
So she informs me—and she ought to knoiv.
There, she’s asleep. Sure one would not be missed.
Stars fill the room, my ears they tingle so.
Ah ! now she swears she must be off to bed,
And condescends to ask, “ Will you have
supper?”
But I reply : “Itnever shall be said,
With Pegasus decked out from bit to crupper,
“ That I did eat or drink a ught less ethereal
Than Jove's ambrosia or Venus’ nectar.”
But though she can make things somewhat sidereal,
She won’t grant those—at least I don’t expect her.
She’s off, her fingers full of hairpins awful,
And now she nestles on her downy pillow.
While my thoughts stray on things entirely lawful,
Heigh-ho! man is but driftwood on the billow.
~ r , , ~, r ,
And life ts — what! Im hanged if I can tell you,
J ~ .. ~
A game of grab, a thirst you cannot slake,
A longing for what never will avail you,
An endless striving for a worthless stake !
With me it certainly is flat at present;
The sun has set behind yon chamber door,
The joys of nicotine are evanescent,
My whisky bottle will not yield me more,
1 Ve rh V med as 1 have *™ed-for very little,
T ° Uttle P ur V ose wiU be read,
So 1 m—good riddance! — off, m solitude,
To close my eyes where first they oped.—in bed.
CHAFUT.
The Coming' Earthquake.
The shocks of earthquake experienced lately in
South Australia have led people to call to mind
the fact that Australia was at one time divided
in two portions by a Mediterranean sea. This,
however, was in its last stage of submergence;
before that, Australia consisted mostly of one good-
sized island and several smaller ones. But, in the
period when the sea flowed from the present Gulf
of Carpentaria to Spencer’s Gulf, if we may judge
by altitudes, the sea by no means kept a straight
north and south course. The line it would have
followed would probably have been south-east
from the south-east corner of the Gulf of
Carpentaria, along the Flinders country,
thence across the low watershed, down the
valley of the Diamantina, which even at Boulia
is but some 300 ft. above the sea level, and across
the depressed salt-lake region to its fellow ocean.
If there should be another subsidence (a not un-
likely occurrence), it stands to reason that the
same belt would suffer inundation, and it could
not well choose a better time. The wiping-out of
Normanton and Burketon would not total to a
great amount of human life. Most of the
NEW AUSTRALIA, after Lie earthquake has
restored the Mediterranean Sea.
side of the Gulf of St. Vincent. South Australia
would be practically done away with, and Queens-
land greatly attenuated, but the good that would
be done to Australia as a whole would consider-
ably outbalance the sacrifice of a State or two.
The only doubt about the matter lies in the fact
that the earthquake, by the time it reaches the
surface, will.be too tired to do its work properly.
A mere extension of Spencer Gulf or the Gulf of
Carpentaria will serve us nothing. This is a tired
continent and so we shall probably have a tired
earthquake, and shall have to raise another loan
to complete the job.
Diamantina country is partially abandoned, or, at
the best, but sparsely inhabited, and humanity
would not suffer to any great extent until ti e
settled portions of S.A. were reached. There, a
few towns—Port Augusta, Port Pine, and
others east and west of Spencer’s Gulf—
would be extinguished, and Yorke Penin-
sula would go, but Adelaide would probably
escape the subsidence, being confined to the other
ERNEST FAVENC.
The aftermath of war : A little girl named
Baden-Powell Makepeace died recently at
Bendigo.
A correspondent from Stannary Hills
(N.Q.):
The problem up here is how are the people to live if
rain does not soon come ? For months past the mining
camps have been depending on the filthy polluted water
hauled out of the mines, and now even this supply
threatens to give out. The drought victims and their
families are drifting in a constant stream toward the
coast—ruin and death from thirst behind them, poverty
and hardship before them. In most cases the men are
too old to start the world afresh.
• The Melbourne Argus on the alleged in-
sanity of the young King of Spain :
While at Cabadonza, viewing the shrine, which is one
of the most famous in Europe, when Bishop Beershop
showed him the sacred relics, St. Peter’s toenail and St.
Paul’s hair, the King said, “ Bishop, do you believe that
nonsense?” The bishop affirmed that he did. “ Well, I
don’t,” replied Alfonso, “we have seen enough ; lam
going to dinner.” Because of such pranks as these Spain
is afraid that her boy King is becoming insane, although
outsiders can see nothing more in it all than the ordinary
trifling of an average boy.
Who in the name of all that’s drunk is Bishop
Beershop ?
Zeehan’s belligerent priest, Father Ber-
nard Murphy, is one of the very few clerics who
openly use the pulpit wherefrom to launch politi-
cal bombs at the heads and tails of straying sheep.
His latest outbreak is over the sins of the Town
Board of his mud-soaked village. Says the shocked
Mercury correspondent:—
Father Bernard Murphy took for his subject, “ Muni-
cipal Misconduct,” and dealt with it under the follow-
ing heads Boodle Becoming Bolder,” “The Reign
of Terror,” “The Dictators Decree the Worker
Must Go,” “Is Democracy Dreaming?” He charged
the Town Board, in an impassioned address, with
/having almost criminally neglected its duty, and
with now proposing to dispense with nearly all the
laborers of the Board, and spending the money in keeping
up a gilded staff, whose chief business would be to exer-
cise the functions of municipal flunkeydom, and dancing
attendance upon someone who fancied himself the muni-
cipal Great Mogul.
Three hundred and fifty cheers for Father
Murphy's anyway.


AFTER THAT ELECTION— A CORPSE!
PREMIER IRVINE: “I SAY, YOU ARE DEAD, AIN’T YOU? BECAUSE ME AND THEM LADIES HAVE A BET ON ABOUT IT!"


CARTOONLETS.
PILING IT ON.
“Sir Archibald Hunter anticipates there will be large imports of ,lalI 7
cattle and other stock from Australia into the Transvaal. —Cable.
With stock selling at £3O a head, what a show the large importations- ,
have 1 Herewith a sample of Australia’s available stock /
Boer Mein Gott! First come
dose Contingents, unt now
| comes dese tings. Vat der
teufel kind of country vas dat ;
Australia ! "
% O'
2>® b-' </ <A
■*T " V X? #
**ws
AA^AA
< *yy><v
•• « Slinks.’ —A Victorian cohntry forwarding-agent
lately puti up a record by sending, in one day, 700
‘slinks’ i.e., the carcases of new-born calves—to the
Melbourne markets. . . . The flesh is used chiefly for
sausages—German, frankfurter, and plain. As, used _
alone, it would not even make up well for sausages, it is
mixed with the flesh of old cows, aged bulls, and
elderly working bullocks . . . and the result is prime
sausages.” —See article “Slinks” in this issue.
The Young ’Un : “Say, pa, what was I
= begun for to be so soon done for 1 "
' The Old ’Un : “ Ah, my child, that's
one of the mysteries that will be re>-
vealed to us in the Hereafter.”
Young Un (ignoring the /run) : “Well,
pa, I should have thought a sausage-
machine would rather tend to compli-
cate a mystery of that sort than other-
wise. ” And yet so young 1
■“.‘•Mermaid’ writes to complain that the conditions
respecting costume under which bathing is allowed in
the daytime at Little Coogee are disregarded, and
suggests that the notice-board bearing the costume
regulation be removed nearer the swimming ground,
and that a policeman in plain clothes visit the place
•occasionally.” —Daily paper.
THE FRIEDMAN CASE.
PLU *P Y W : /lous C entering out of breath) “’ls Hexcellencv
hL .£ , ip" yon "' e “ th “ SK
Attoesbt-Gbmbeal W,a,: ■* Too late—tha thing's done! After »U, ..doau',
matter. The Governor is only a rubber-stamp, as it were! ” ‘


A. SAUNDERS’
WATCHES, CLOCKS. JEWELLERY,'& SILVERPLATE AT FREETRADE PRICES.
SAVE 25 TO 50 PER CENT. SHOWROOMS: 815 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
r: '
BSRICI
A. SAUNDERS,
o-, 4 NICK SADIES’ PRESENT.
‘ 1 ure Silwr Brushes, Comb, and 9 Pieces Manicure and
bits, 47 10s. Posted anywhere free from duty.
Si
A. SAUNDERS.
Jewel Case. .Lovely Chased, Carved, and Ornamented Silk-
lined, 22s <Jd. Useful present.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pour o’clock CAKE PORKS, Pure Silver-plated, on
Hard White Metal, 20s : similar style, 12s 6d
A bargain.
Ladies’ Pure Solid Silver Work Box and Jewel Case,
Handsomely Carved and Chased, £3 ss.
. „ „ A. SAUNDERS
Gent’s Full-sized Shaving Set, Silver-mounted £H •
similar styles, £2los. £2 15s, and £3. A nice present’
Child’s Silver-plated CUP, 12s Gd, 15s,
£l, and 255.
Pure
Silver-mounted,
7s 6d.
flasks,
Silver-plated, 10s,
12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
v/rmr
mu
LONDON Zc SYDNEY
-
Cake , ol ' D 4!ik v iV i 6S^ n v Carved Ivory Hand Jes ir
Silk and Velvet-lined Case, £4. A. handsome present.
Child's Pure Silver
Hattie, PearlHaudle,
3 in. long', 6s 6d, Ss
6d, and 10s 6d.
wav;
325
PureSilverThimbles,
Cold-mounted, Is 6d.
Other styles, Is (id, J
2s Od, and 3s od. i
od „ A - SAUNDERS.
i Pure Silver Gent.’s Brushes, £2 10s, £B, £3 10s,
beautiful Silk Case. A useful present.
Ladies’ or Gent.’B Travelling ROLLS, 80s ; similar 10s 6d
12s Gd, 15s, 20s, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ HAIR BRUSH,
Pure Silver Chased,
20s, 255, 30s.
Spleudid value.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ MIRROR,
Pure Solid Silver-, Nicely-
Chased, 30s, 355, £2,
£2 10s.
Ladies’ Latest PURSE and WALLET
with Strap, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, without
strap, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s.
lilfii
nn
Wrv- s r--M ,tt, > ,, ’ ,1 V BUU rri ra r,r\ v.ytm
SB
m
m
m
WM
m
m
m
9k
SH
:
Hand Made I’ on- Solid Silver CIGARETTE CASE, Beautifully Chased, Extra Heavy Cases, Gold
Plated Inside, with Silk-lined Case, 30s ; other styles 355, £2, £2 10s.
Gold PENCILS, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s, £2 ; Silver 3s Gd, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s.
~HIS
LITTLE
iiZSni t
A. SAUNDERS.
Child’s SPOON, Solid Silver Chased, 7s 6d. The Very Latest and Newest Designs.
A. SAUNDERS.
Cigar and Cigarette HOLDER, Pure Silver,
6s 6d and 7s Cd.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver GLOVE HOOK,
Is 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Swan PIN,
7s 6d.
„ ~, A. SAUNDERS.
aiidMirfm r lrf? lld | Uver Toilet Case - 2 Pure Silver Brushes, Comb,
u Mirror, m handsome case, £7 10s. Posted anywhere duty tree.
A. SAUNDERS
First-class Purs Solid Silver CHILD’S SET, in Silk lined
Case, Brush, Puff Box, Battle, and Comb, £3 3s.
.t a t D 1>I)TI r A - saunjSees:
Silvel '. in Silk-liueU Case, 30s.
hBEEIBADE PBICES. NO ADVANCE.
MANXCUBE SET, Pure Silver Mounts, 25s : Cheaper "ines
10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Cigarette CASE. Pure Silver Cor-
neix and Shield, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Cigars similar, same price.
HATPINS, Pure Solid
Silver, Is 6d ; stone set,
3s 6d, 4s 6d.
Ladies’ Smelling Salts B 01 1 L'LES,
Silver Tops,- 3s 6d, 4s (id, 6s 6d,
7s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
Silver-plated
ALENDAR, Very Neat
17s tid.
A. SAUNDERS
JEWELLER and SII.VEIRSMITH.
JtSP“A BEAUTIFUL DISPLAY OP PRESENTS,
Mind, 815 GEORGE-STREET,
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY


Building Up
“ Fortunately for me I was advised
to try Scott’s Emulsion ”
For those who have to fight against weak-
ness after disease, to fight against any form
of feebleness or ill condition of the body,
there is an ally to be had that wins the
struggle, no matter the odds
“ 143, Waterloo Boad, Lambeth,
“ London, England, April 15th, 1901.
“ Dear Sirs, —Last December I. had a
severe attack of hemorrhage of the right
lung, which lasted for several days. It was
necessary for me to keep very quiet and
still, as the least movement or exertion
brought on the hemorrhage again. I was
unable to take anything solid, and naturally
fell away very considerably. The prepara-
tions that were given me seemed to have
little or no effect, and I made scarcely any
progress towards recovery. Fortunately for
me I was advised to try Scott’s Emulsion,
being told it was one of the best things to
§=S=
/
i
3$
>
CHARLES OSBORNE.
(From a photograph.)
be had to build up the system. Wishing,
of course, to get strong again, I commenced
to take your preparation, and with the most
satisfactory results, for I soon began to gain
in both flesh and strength. Unlike plain
cod-liver oil—which I cannot take easily—l
found Scott’s Emulsion very agreeable and
palatable, and what is more, highly bene-
ficial.—Yours very truly,
“ (Signed) Charles Osborne.”
It is one of the prime qualities of Scott’s
Emulsion that it immediately enriches the
blood —thereby stopping all wasting ten-
dencies. You will understand how im-
portant this is when you remember that
waste is continuous in a state of disease and
must be stopped if there is to be a return to
health. Scott’s Emulsion promptly puts
an end to the wasting, and then begins the
work of rebuilding in the blood, in the
tissues, in the hones.
This it does with the cod-liver oil —blended
in our way with hypophosphites of lime and
soda. These elements apart or blended by
some process less matured than our own
will not procure you the same result. It
is for this reason that doctors recommend
Scott’s Emulsion. It is obvious if any
kind of emulsion would do doctors would
not, as they do daily in their practice,
prescribe Scott's Emulsion !
When, therefore, it is a question with you
of building up after illness of any kind, but
particularly after every sort of fevers, lung
troubles, and other exhausting illnesses, the
answer is as sure as the remedy—Scott’s
Emulsion. It mpbuilds perfectly, man,
woman, or child.
To secure it, note that there is a picture on
the wrapper —a man carrying a big codfish.
If you have this picture on the wrapper of
the bottle you have the remedy you need.
You can obtain a sample of Scott’s Emulsion
by sending fourpenee to Scott & Bowne, Ltd.
4i3 Kent street, Sydney, and mentioning this
paper. All chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
lO t0£5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any Port in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogue and Special 05? r
Using 2jd. Stamp. Address Rept "• 5iJ
Mead Cycle Co. C ST
BLOW FLIES.
The Oj’JLY destroyer—The “Buzz”
Window Trap, with Fauldingr’s
Insect Powder. All Stores.
POPULAR SONGS
By
Eminent
Composers
“ Iff I ware Loved by Thee ” .. Piccolo mini
“ Breaking the Ice ” Pontet
“Parted but Unchanged” .. J. Sewell Southgate
“Song of Love and Death ” Barnett
OF ALL MUSICSELLERS.
W. PAXTON & C 0. 9 London; Melbourne
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Luton O.B.: That is a Kanaka, not a Queensland black.
In all the world there is but one man who can draw a
blackfellow or a lubra. His name is B. E. Minns O.O.:
You are a shocking draughtsman and an even sorrier
poet. To have drawing returned, if unavailable, stick
stamp on its face. But The Bulletin accepts no mone-
tary responsibility as to the return of either drawings or
MSS Max: Nothing attractive Bee Dovle:
Joke none too brilliant. Drawing unsuitable... .O.H.T. :
Nogood.. ..Franchise : Probably useone M.M.M.M. :
Glad to get and pay for humorous suggestions for
illustration; samples sent not suitable, however....
P.S.H. : Reasonably good tries, but please send some-
thing which looks as if it must be original. We
are not out after Scrap drawings. Both your sketches
would be quite at home in a cockney paper, and that
isn't what The Bulletin wants to pay for C.H.S. :
See foregoing reply... .G. J.S. :It would righteously earn
us six months to publish it W. J. Donald 1- : Other
duffer not shown in picture.. . A.M. : Regret unsuitable..
W.R. : Picture of rucjle parent booting girl’s lover merely
vulgar. Other unsuitable... G.D. : Unsuitable... .W.
Mackay : One may serve... .F.B. : Sorry neither suitable.
Subjects poor, work very laborious, and so close as to be
unfitted for reduction... .W.F.N. : Scraps subjects;
nothin tinctive about them. . .T.R.D. : That Scotch
item is ry un-Australian... .Cal C. : Subject pretty
well played-out. for the present.. . .Bungaree : Very old.
....B. Todd : Still 01der.... H.C.D.B. : Thanks for offer,
but subject has lost interest... .C.M.M. : It was “ drawn
by a 16-year-old.” Then he is a most unpromising youth.
... .G.W.B. : Do try for something of distinctly Aus-
tralian 0010i*.... A.S. O'C. : Far behind the fair... .F.F. :
Gay, ancient, and untrue W.B. (Vic.): A mouldy
antique.... S. Kingwood : Glad to get (and pay for)
attractive original sketches from anyone ; use good white
paper and Indian ink... .Sigma : Subjects unsuitable and
drawings most unattractive. If you wish to succeed you
must acquire a broader style by studying at a life-class
under competent instruction. Your present methods are
hopelesslv “ niggling.”. ..Unavailable : M’Gregor, M.A.G.,
H. 8.8., R. Ridgleyj P.M., G.H.S., R.A.W., John E.F.,
T. le 8., Ruby W., E.D., Winnie A., H.M‘C., Geof. G.,
W.A., C. Wood, W.S.P., Rus (M.L.), H. Green, X.S.A.,
J. Dunn, R.L.M., M.L., Alf. W. (Vie.), Frank D. (Brisb.).,
Ida E„ W.T., W.T.P., Opal.
“ Firebox ” writes re the marine boiler —
the thing that will blow up many influential pas-
sengers some day : ‘
One thing that needs looking into is the general lack
of proper means for testing the accuracy of the steam
gauge. The only way in which an old or suspected gauge
j may be tested is to select as the “ standard ” a new gauge,
and attach it and the faulty one to a “boiler prover ” or
force-pump, and subject them both to the same pressure.
The dial hand of the incorrect one is then “ set” (like the
hands of a clock) until it registers the same as the new or
“standard” one. Should the standard, from any cause,
! need adjusting, there is no means of testing it save by
buying a new one. Writer was once driving a 25ft.
pinnace at a gauge pressure of 901 b., and, on testing the
gauge by above method, found the pressure to be 1101 b.
The safety valve was set to blow off at 901 b. by the okl
gauge, if there were proper means of testing gauges
other similar boilers would be in less danger than they
are now. The marine boiler is apt to be a gamble as
things are, and gambling is a sin.
! Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Stdfel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N. S. Wales: Sayers,
Allport and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
“ Gilaomi ” on how tragedies come about:
When the children are butchered by a father or an un-
fortunate ends his own career for (seemingly) no cause at
all, the public wonders. But how easily understandable it
all is to ;he sufferer from “nerves.” The writer, during
nerve prostration two years ago, had frequently to send
his family away or to go away for a while himself, lest the
haunting, nagging fear that he would injure them should
become a realilv. To look off a height or at an approaching
train had a terrible fascination, almost inviting suicide,
and the dread of saying blasphemous words in company
was agony- Once, gazing placidly at a policeman standing
in the street, my thoughts wandered to imagining what
I he result would be if 1 “ stoushed ” hini on the nose, and
I was actually walking towards him to try the experi-
ment when a passing vehicle nearly upset me and the
dangerous chain of thought was broken by the driver’s
request to “ mind where the I was going.” All news-
papers had to be avoided because of the alluring pour-
trayals of how horrible things were done. Last doctor
consulted laconically gave the cause and. cure thu3—
“Australian bush ; live in town.”
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the welhknown jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphire?,' Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct, to him. The firm lias
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
Terror drives some people to drink, and
some to gambling. When the recent earthquake ■
struck Adelaide while that city wasn’t looking,
one respectable citizen sat up suddenly in his bed,
found himself being tossed about like a parched
pea in a frying-pan, deliberated upon the advis-
ableness of precipitation, precipitated, lost him-
self in the darkness of the room, at last found the
door, went astray again in tho passage, discovered
his bearings but dropped h‘is pants, and hurled,
himself into the middle of the street—all in the
brief interval of from 15 to 20sec. And then in
the extremity of his terror he forgot his respect-
ability, and standing bare-legged in the street
offered to bet a pound his house was falling down.
The International Sheepbreedors’ Con-
ference has decided that the increased adultera-
tion of woollens and the unscrupulous sub-
stitution of inferior materials in the manufac-
ture of so-called woollen goods, “demand, in tho
interests of the consumer and producer, immediate
legislative attention.” This resolution is well-
timed. In many manufacturing districts of Eng-
land, where alleged woollen goods are made,
practically no raw wools are purchased, but loads
of shoddy rags are received daily. Australia has
long been one of the principal dumping-grounds
for stuff made out of these diseased tatters, and
th e great rage of the Cobden crowd in the Federal
Parliament is largely due to the fact that it has
now been taxed.
In Australia nowadays, when some indus-
try breathes into the Minister’s ear for a reduction
of railway rates, and the Railway Department
reports that it can’t reduce the rates without
working at a loss, it is immediately suggested that
the consolidated revenue should pay the Depart-
ment enough to make good the loss. The same
thing is proposed to make good the Department’s
loss through granting increases, of wages. It is a
silly pretence which does no one any good ;
the State pays the Railways (say) £lOO,OOO
that it has collected by income-tax; and the
Department hands it back and pretends it earned
the money itself; and except as a conspiracy to
prevent' the taxpayers knowing how their lines
pay, there is nothing in it.
The Veterinarian.
THE DIFFERENT PREPARATIONS OF
“SALVITIS”
FOR HORSES, CATTLE, SHEEP,
PIGS, &C. ARE WORTH TRYING!
SALVITIS Index of Diseases, Free.
Remedies suggested in this Column promptly supplied
by Wholesale Agents for N.S.W. —
E. RICH & COMPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
11
11
Ensures abundance
of EGGS and
Healthy Poultry.
USED BY BEADING BREEDERS— I/-, 5/-, 10/-, 20/-
SALVITIS ROUP PILLS, U 6 per box.
Wholesale Agents for N.S.W.—
E, RICH & COMPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
Medical.
WEAK EYES, resulting from Dust, Sunglare,
Overwork, &c., Cured by
ROSE’S CELEBRATED
Eye Lotion.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S °£uT AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
v;
There’s SECURITY in
ARTEFfS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE,
TORPID LIVER.
i FURRED TONGUE.
I
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS
SALLOW SKIN
They
TOUGH the L
Be Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
MELLIN’S
FOR INFANTS FOOD AND INVALIDS.
Is adapted far use from birth.
Send for Pamphlet and Samples to GOLLIN & CO., 562-4, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
50, Clarence Street, Sydney; Grenfell Street, Adelaide ; and Wellington.
Mellln’s Food Company for Australia and New Zealand, Ltd,, 52, SfUii.c:; Street, London, Eng.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (oj any State) accompany.
I T.S.R. (Redfern) : The Bulletin was estab-
' lished, not for the purpose of being read free at ithe
| “ Alexandra Methodist Guild,” but for the cold blooded
! and venal end of making money for its shark-like pro-
-1 prietors. For rates of subscription, vide notice over
leading article. By the way, this is the very first, time
' we’ve known of a free Bulletin being openly asked for in
the name of Methodism. Something must surely have
gone wrong with our works.... Clark M. : There is no
really honest paper. Tiie Bulletin doesn’t claim to be
really honest; it is only as honest as it can afford to be.
Some day, when Heaven prospers us to the extent to
which it has (though we say it as shouldn’t) many far less
worthy persons, and gives us £lOO,OOO a year certain in
return for some small, unconsidered mining investment,
we’ll run a realty honest paper as a fad. And then the
world will give a wild gasp and stand off the grass
Snakejuice: We’re not going to be bluffed into adver-
tising the names of the books, but will bet you £5
(winnings to go to a hospital) that we can show you, in
this office, advts. in a publicans’ trade paper, of
books giving full instructions how to fake and imi-
tate spirits, &e. Now come along with .your money....
D. : But E.S.S. is right. The monotonous use of
the “choppy ” sentence is inartistic and wearisome. A
good style is never hide-bound Bunny : The other
man is right; “seismic” has but two syllables—
“ sise-mic ’’—preserving the sound as in the Greek
“ eeismos.”... .Tippo : Few men would reach Sandow’s
condition. Even if S., as he says, was a weakling young-
ster, exceptional developmental capability must have
been latent in him.. ..W.F.Y. : Balanced for a space on
the basket-edge, but finally fell in J. Guphipps :
Your scheme would work if the State were content to go
slow with its railway-building—not otherwise. Paper
circulation on the scale you propose is quite impossible..
May (Townsville) : You want your photo. “ to appear in
the Sketch,” find don’t know how to manage it. Well,
the only way we know of is to make a success (or a
failure) in tights on the music-hall stage, and then get
some foolish Johnny to pay for the advt E.L. : Write
plainly, of get a type-writer The Exile : First heard
that black-gin story in Queensland nearly 30 years ago,
and have been hearing it at least once a, week ever since.
....Charles C. (Eng.): Your closely-written letter in
violet ink seems to he of a flattering nature, but we can’t
read it. We have grown old and grey and bald and blind
over such MS., and would rather be hit in the eye with a
perfectly-legible dead cat than bombarded with such'
illegible compliments....Marah : Intolerably prosy....
E. : Seeing that you know how to put the whole com-
munity right, better hustle along with the information
Shandy : Lacks novelty. .E.M.P. : Two poems, both below
par J.T.B. : Yes ; reliable items of general interest will
be acceptable... .H.A. (Pt. Adelaide): Essays on mine-
timbering not in our line Mahatma, H.G.D., Shiraz:
Under consideration... .Ralph C. : Quite true, but we
can’t recall the details... .Rex : Tyson reminiscences are
now belated.... Nymsie : “Vendetta” and “Baulked”
have a good idea, imperfectly developed Lone
Hill: Too clumsily put together Vox Humana:
“Forsaken” approaches merit; others little above
doggerel-level J.O. : Preacher Storr isn’t worth all
that argument W.W.S. (Melbourne): Very heavy....
H.D.M. : The love and summer-breeze poem is rather
flat.. . .Ooolibah : No central idea and no sequence....
J.II. (W.A.): Too long and lean of interest. Tim D. : You
buzz horribly around trifles.... Bar-two : You trip over
your logic ; and, anyhow, the matter isn’t worth dis-
cussion .... W.B.D : Bullock-throwing item behind date.
..F.H. : Not badly done, but we don’t care for allegories
EiF.M. : Totally lacks life and movement.... Jean
D. : Yes; the B. pays for what it uses, but your stuff has
been unsuitable, so far.... A.P.R. : Only just misses’
mark Gerald B. : Absolutely without interest
Smith-Hill: “Still on Top” is now underneath Morze :
Poem, asking the parson where he is, declined....A. P.
Roger: Will print “Camp Controversialists.’’ Hair-
space : Poor doggerel.. . .Ruby K. : Sony to say your sea
poem won’t heave in these columns... .M.F.P. : No new,
thoughts, and about eight varieties of metre. We prefer
eight though Is and one metre.... Frederick Gordon : One
accepted ; other under consideration.. ..Eric Fergusson :
Cheery jingle, but rather empty. If some cocktail
and a skirt dance were put into it, would make
respectable American musical comedy... .Will G.: Pro-
posal that artist should do a picture of a small
girl calling a dog a brute respectfully declined
Odds: Not enough iu it.... Johnnycake : None of ’em
much g00d.... Harum : No, thanks..: .Spix : Will be
considered Cora : Style glaringly unsuited to subject.
.... Smith-B. : You don’t seem able to get. near the mark.
A.D.N. : Sandow prescribes a special course for weak-
hearted persons... .Jeanette ; Has no more than a mild
prettiness Dirty Left : You don’t “get home ” on us
this time... .Tom JL : “ Put it in next issue and send me
a copy.” No. Thomas... .G.C.L. : Hopelessly illegible.
. ..Nymsie : Hideously verbose and circumlocutory. Note ,
the condensed form in which your items appear... J.J.V.:
Thanks ; but there’s hardly enough in them E.A.H. :
Too jerky and incoherent.. .Euroa : That mendioant-and-
pubyarn is told of Sydney evangelising barrister Field....
Keeran : Next time, write out your “ original anecdotes”
as tersely as you can, then let them lie-by for a day or
two. Then take them up and see how much you can cut
out of them. When you have boiled them down by 85
per cent, send us the result Mikoro : We have not
been able to obtain such information as to whether Kate
Kelly is alive or dead as “ would satisfy a judicial
tribunal.” One account is that she was drowned years
agoinN.S.W. ; another is that she is a married woman
in another State. And there are other versions, so we
give it up....E.E. : Now tell us—who says “buss” for
kiss in Australia? T.L.C. : Your letter amply show's
that you have no possible chance in these columns.
W.M.B. : A most unsatisfactory explanation
Mary L. : “Chrysalis” for print.. ..Theo P. : Too thin.


66
WHISKY
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO , 88 King-st.,
SYDNEY.
HOW TO KEEP COOL
We strongly recommend all who suffer
from the heat to add a few drops of Condy’s
Fluid to the Daily Bath or Foot Bath.
F°, n< ?y' s Bath imparts a most
delightful sensation of coolness, freshness
and purity, it invigorates the body and
braces the nerves. The strengthening and
cooling effects are Simply Magical. Tired
or Tender feet are instantly relieved. Book
on bottle contains full directions.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists
throughout the British Empire. Beware
of substitutes. Insist on having “ Condy’s
Fluid.’’ Condy & Mitchell, of London.
England, are the only Makers and their
name and address is at foot of label.
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
|g|lB||§§
G-O TO HELL-
KiOliANli for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Eiizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
POLITICAL
POINTS
‘ ‘ The British aim has been and is to excel
in commerce.” —Abgds. In short: The British
ideal—l deal.
Melbourne Age refused to publish Tren-
with’s election address at any price. Compare
that petty meanness with the dignity of, say, such
a paper as the S.M. Herald.
N.S.W. Taxpayers’ Union announces that
it is making a special effort to enrol “young
men ” —on the principle, presumably, of catching
them green or you won’t catch them at all.
Vic. Railway Minister Bent has made a
good beginning by a large abolition of free passes.
The trouble about Bent is that some job always
comes along and swallows the savings twice over.
Some printable epithets used during the
N.S.W. censure debate : “ Political caterpillars ” ;
“ Ignoramus of a Judas”; “cowardly skunk”;
“the lion, gentleman is a liar”; “you are a
damned cad.”
London correspondent of N.Y. Herald
(under date, Aug. 22) states, re S’Africa, that
the Britisli Government is determined to exclude
paupers, and also: ''‘Prospecting miners are not
considered desirable.” That’s right on Australia’s
tail.
Fox, M.L.A., has a proposal before
Queensland Assembly, for selling not more than
10 million acres of land in a casual, off-hand way,
in order to meet the deficit. Charles Surface, in
the “ School for Scandal,” used to meet his deficit
in the same way.
Sydney Telegraph : “ The time will come
when the Commonwealth must borrow.” The
same old hopeless argument! Other States may
pay their way, but the poor, miserable Australian,
being of a lower grade than the rest, can’t be ex-
pected to. His only resource is the pawnshop.
Victorian Ministerof Lands M‘Kenzie said,
t’other evening, at Ararat, that he was not in
favor of a Land Tax. “The poor farmer could
not afford it,” etc., etc. Some rude person loudly
interjected, “There are no farmers in Collins-st.”
The “poor farmer” bogey is trotted out every
time.
G. H. Reid is going on a Freetrade lec-
turing tour in Victoria, and this time he is really
going to explain why he protected such a lot of
things while he was Freetrade Premier in N.S.W.,
and why he gave 50 per cent. Protection to the
Sydney Freetrade papers to prevent them throw-
ing him out of office.
HE’D JUST STOPPED.
DENTIST : " We charge five shillings for drawing ,
and a guinea for stopping.”
PATIENT: “ Jumpin’ Jehosophat, it’s worth it?”
Federal military authorities having decided
to exclude the public from Obelisk Bay—a military
reserve on Sydney harbor—Sydney D.T. prints a
letter suggesting that this is another argument for
Secession. The man who drops twopence down a
Federal telephone-tunnel in Sydney nowadays
wants to secesh, and his wild cry for disunion and
his twopence is eagerly printed by the Freetrade
dailies. They don’t believe in secession, oh no ;
but a spirit of fairplay and justice compels them
to give prominent expression to these grievances.
The Maoriland Government proposes
taking a referendum on the question of tote or no
tote at next election. For the sake of getting a
definite statement of public opinion, and saving
distraction and wear and tear of jaw, it is a
wonder that the referendum is not more frequently
resorted to.
Last Monday Sydney Telegraph again
alluded to the “ vigorous strides ” Freetrade is
making in Victoria. These sorrowful old “strides”
have existed in the Telegraph’s disordered in-
tellect for goodness knows how many years, but
the general election comes and they don’t stride
worth a cent.
The Freetrade legend vanishes by degrees.
The British Government has, for years, subsidised
its mail steamers in one way or another. Now it
proposes to lend the Cunard Co. money at 2f per
cent, and also pay it £150,000 a year, on condition
that it remains British and avoids the wiles of
Pierpont Morgan.
Secretary of Victorian Employers’ Union
recently:
“ Marriage was a luxury. ... It was not fair to com-
pel employers to pay for such things.”
And now that the triumph of Irvine has put the
workers under the heel of the Tories, there will be
an attempt to realise that ideal—a wage-rate
which won’t permit of marriage.
Coming events cast their shadows before.
Bishop Mercer, of Tasmania, when attending
Adelaide Church Congress this month, told a
Melanesian Mission meeting there that it was
barely three weeks since he had landed in “ this
great Republic.” Then he gave a vicious little
movement with his foot, as though metaphorically
kicking himself.
No less than 18 of the members who sit
oehind the Irvine “ Reform ” Government have
declared, at one time or another, that the House
of 48 Rich Landlords, as at present constituted,
is a blessed institution, and they would shed their
last ounce of fat rather than see anything happen
to it. These are 18 pleasant companions for a
“ Reform ” Government.
Robert Reid, M.L.C., Vic. Minister for
Education, is doing his utmost to abolish free
education, technical colleges, and even University
instruction in Victoria. No man in the State is
so completely out of touch with the educational
movements of the day. All the country wants, in
Reid’s opinion, is enough education to haul a bale
of imported goods ashore.
The fact that one of the principal leaders
of the Queensland secession movement is Jenkin-
son, ex-M.L.A., is suggestive. Jenkinson was
cast out at last election as a second-hand article,
of which Queensland was weary, and that in an
electorate where the plural property vote is not
strong. The claim of this recently left-off person
to represent Queensland sentiment is, at the very
least, rather doubtful.
John Douglas, Residentof Thursday Island,
draws attention to the fact that the local pearl-
beds, which have yielded £5,000,000 worth of
shell, are on the highway to depletion. Dr. Tosh
the expert, says rest and a system of cultivation
are absolutely necessary. Douglas ventures the
opinion that the enforcement of the Alien Immi-
grants Act would probably prove the salvation of
the pearl-shell industry in his dominions.
During the first seven
months of 1902, 202,665 emi-
grants left the British Isles—
-123,612 for the United States
and 41,292 for Canada. The
remaining 37,761 went to other
places. The rush is always to
the two countries with the
biggest tariffs. Men go, as the
first, last and only considera-
tion, to the countries where
they can get Work—the sort of
work they can do —at good
wages, and Australia can’t offer
much work to the cotton-spinner,
the weaver, the brass and iron
worker, etc., while it imports so
much, and, consequently, manu-
factures so little.
The Queensland Govern-
ment has issued a writ against
the Federal Government for
the recovery of £927 paid, under
protest,_ as duty on imported
steel rails. The Philp Govern-
ment paid the £927 in the first
place. Then it got back the
£927 at the monthly division of
the surplus. If it wins the pre-
sent case the Federal Treasurer
will first stop out of Queens-
land’s share of the surplus £927
wrongly paid to it. Then out of
that he will refund to Queens-
land £927 wrongly charged to it.
So Queensland will be in exactly
the same position whether it
wins or loses—only Premier
Philp will have found another
chance of being nasty in a
small girlish way, and some good
legal tender will have gone in
law costs.
As it is freely talked of that N.S. W. Leg.
Council will a third time throw out the Free
Education Bill, the Labor party should bethink
itself of a course to take. Swamping is no use ;if
the irresponsible House is swamped every time it
is a little more irresponsible than usual, a time
will come when it will number 5000 members.
Abolition is the only remedy.
The Labor party “caucus” is again the
subject of excited concern in the Sydney daily
papers. But, after all, the caucus is no more than
the expression in concrete form of the “loyalty”
which the old Freetrade and Protectionist parties
exacted by unwritten pledges. That it compels a
man to vote against his conscience is not true ; he
has always the alternative of resigning from the
party.
PASTORAL PURSUITS IN AUSTRALIA.
A big Vic. pastoralisfc, who has increased
the taxpayers’ burden to a considerable ext; n by
using the railways for the carriage of his starving
stock and fodder this year, has engaged teams to
cart his wool to the seaboard. The State-owned
railway can carry all his stuff that it will take at a
loss. Remunerative work is given to the teams.
And probably that person’s horror at the socialis-
tic enormity of old age pensions is something
picturesque.
A public meeting in Hobart has resolved
that the citizens should acquire the weird, squat,
two-decked trams of their metropolitan village.
But as the tram co. holds the rights to the streets for
ever , the price asked will probably be something
stupendous. The increasing success of European
experiments in the way of motor-car services
raises a hope, however, that Hobart’s monopolistic
co. may yet be glad to dispose of its permanent
way at scrap-iron rates.
It is 13 years since Vic. ex-Premier PeacocK
was returned for the smallest constituency in point
of population in Victoria—Clunes and Allendale.
He only had to fight for his seat twice, being
returned unopposed in 1892, 1894, 1897, and 1900.
The mines at Clunes have been fading away gra-
dually, and from a mining constituency it has
turned into a pastoral and farming one. In that
fact lay the Government’s hope of defeating
Peacock, but when it was all over he had a two
to one majority.
If certain of the N.S.W. Federal Repre-
sentatives were one-quarter as anxious about pro-
moting the industries of Australia as they are
about insisting on the Governor-General spending
part of his time in Sydney, it would be a good
thing for Australia. The necessity for having a
boss Excellency handy to crawl to for certain
months put of each year is being magnified
till the absence of that commonplace personage is
bloated out to the dimensions of a Public Wrong
and a National Disaster.
Melb. Paunch fell in badly over the elec-
tions, having prepared its Thursday’s issue on
prophetic lines, with a firm conviction that the
Vic. Labor Party was to be exploded into undis-
co verable scraps. The cartoon represented King
Workingman, Punch’s stupid bogey, dead and
lying in state, and on Thursday everybody knew
that the Labor Party had scored some additional
seats, and had received more votes than at any
previous election. You shouldn’t prophesy unless
you know, and Paunch never knows.
The Municipal Bill, the measure with
which the See Ministry is fooling N.S.W. into a
belief that it is attempting something in the way
of Local Government, is wearily struggling along
in Parliament. One evening recently a member
moved an amendment under a misapprehension.
On realising his mistake he offered to withdraw
his motion. The House “objected,” and for close
on three hours it whacked the dead amendment,
just by way of pushing things ahead. Then it
rejected the amendment, as it had intended to do
all along.
Solemnly declared, by all the judges of
S.A. Supreme Court together, that the Work-
men’s Compensation Act, which has got along
well enough for two years, is unintelligible, and
that they cannot give any decision on it until it is
amended. It is generally left to the workman
himself (and an injured and helpless one at that)
to have the flaw in the “ fool of an Act ” proved
at his expense. The average Supreme Court, un-
fortunately, is a great deal better at knowing that
the Act is wrong than in knowing how the Act
should be put right.
A very persistent trier who didn’t get in at
the Vic. election was Drink Cure man Caulfield,
the one-time Boy Politician. And a persistent
trier who got in at last was Maximilian Hirsch
who beat “ Greasy Dick ” O’Neill at Mandurang.
But Hirsch’s political load consists of the most
amazing collection of imaginary statistics in
support of Freetrade that were ever got together,
and now that there is no fiscal issue to talk about
his success is dust and ashes. Parson Dill Macky
with no Catholics to rage against would find
things just as hollow.
There wasn’t an atom of judicial feeling
in the attack on Attorney-General Wise by
N.S.W. Opposition, egged on by the Freetrade
press: it was all wild snap and yeli. For instance,
John Haynes’ weekly piled up on the indictment
that Wise was responsible for not prosecuting
Murray Prior, committed by a lower court for
trial on a charge of assault. And that matter
was outside of the Attorney-General’s province
and came before the Solicitor-General, Mr. Pollock
—who, judging from the police-court evidence,
was emphatically right.
The Age staked its immortal soul and its
position of Victorian political boss on keeping
Trenwith out of the Richmond seat and putting
broken-boomer Munro in. Yet Trenwith got in
with 2169 votes, while James Munro brought up
the tail of a procession of four with 1094 sup-
porters. It is the worst shock the Age has met
with for a long time. Despite all appearances,
David Syme’s empire is beginning to go in the
feet, and, like most such things, it begins to go in
the feet through swelled head. There was nobody
whose head the Age demanded on a soup-plate so
bitterly as Trenwith’s, and the, plate came back
empty.
Now that the tariff is out of the way the
so-called Opposition in the Senate is likely to
break up into parties of two or three.
Symon is not by any means well-beloved
ud cannot depend in a general way upon
a single follower. Then President
Chaffey Baker and Symon have a
difference of opinion as to. who is
the biggest liar in South Australia
or something like that. They don’t
disagree about this by way of reflect-
mg on each other, but by way of reflecting on
certain reliable - old enemies that they left behind
them in their own State. Neild cordially hates
both Symon and Matheson. Little Ewing puts on
insufferable airs ; Clemons has a temper like the
hind claw of an old man kangaroo, and, taking them
all round, they are not a friendly lot. The next
party to be formed will probably be a straight-out
Tory one—Sargood, Walker, Zeal, Fraser. Dobson
and Ferguson to start with.
Vic. Minister of Railways, Tom Bent,
shaking his York ham fist at a Geelong election-
eering meeting that guyed him: “You porters,
cleaners, and others had better be careful. There
are thousands waiting to fill your positions, and I
won’t be insulted by you.” The law against
bribery and corruption is well known ; is there no
law to deal with the intimidation of the tyrannical
boss who insists on being respected without
troubling to deserve it, and publicly threatens to
use his official authority as a means of gratifying
his mean private grudges ?
Not one member of the late Vic. Parlia-
ment tried to change his constituency. In these
days of log-rolling for the ‘ ‘ poor farmer, ” it would
be suicidal for the average member to go any-
where outside his own locality. Some of the men
who have been in Parliament for a decade
are virtually unknown outside their electorates.
Different from the old days of political dare-devil,
when a few men at least ventured to have opinions
of their own, and changed their constituencies
regularly in order to dodge the dead oats and other
rewards of an outspoken life.
Among the Lost at the 'Victorian election
were Speaker Mason (for whose wig and gown old
Dunky Gillies is getting measured); Vale, of
Ballarat; Isaacs’ little brother Jack; White,
the tricky shuffler of Albert Park (ousted by
Labor-man Elmslie); Gurr, Outtrim and Burton,
ex-ministers ; and old Jodk McIntyre. Trenwith’s
expenses were probably lowest, as that veteran did
no canvassing, dispensed with committees and
disdained touting. Lazarus, of Bendigo, tried the
same scheme, but Lazarus isn’t Trenwith, and
Labor-man Hamilton walked in over his shoulders.
IRVINE’S PARLIAMENT.
What will he do with it?
The inquiry into the N.S.W. free news-
paper train question plods on with the agility of
a fallen tree, and so far it appears :
(1) That the trains which carry the newspapers gratis
would run anyhow ; (2) That by charging full fares and
freights to other people, who, in many cases, are less able
to afford the money than the Herald, Telegraph, &c.,
the “ paper ” trains are made to pay, despite the subsidy
or aid or concession granted to the wealthy newspaper
owners; (3) therefore, seeing that their goods only travel
free by a train which, through other people’s goods not
travelling free, is made to yield a small profit, it is absurd
to talk of the papers receiving a subsidy from the public ;
(4) if a poor man tried to ride on that train free, on the
ground that it was going in any case, and that it would
show a profit despite his failure to pay, he would get into
gaol.
The Adelaide private tramway syndicate,
which secured many votes at the referendum
which was taken regarding its job, by pointing out
that if it got its concession it would start work at
once and furnish many deserving men with em-
ployment during last winter, hasn’t commenced
yet. But it is now alleged that work will possibly
be commenced in May, in time for next winter.
Yet if an energetic Parliament—supposing that
there was one—revoked the concession on the
ground that it was secured, in part at least, by
false representations, the syndicate would prob-
ably use a lot of terrible language long before next
winter.
Frank Madden, Victoria’s most deadly
Tory, considers that the State’s credit should be
saved by dropping the Education and Old Age
Pensions Acts. In a speech to the electors,
recently, he said : “ The credit of the country
must be saved. How is it to be done ? If we do
not depend on the present Ministry for retrench-
ment and reform, what will be the result? In
the first place, the Old Age Pensions Act must be
dropped; and in the next place, the only possible
step to save Victoria’s credit is to suspend the
Education Act.” As a matter of fact, an attack
on the Old Age Pensions Act is already being
considered. The idea is to propose that faith
should be kept with the present pensioners by
paying them their doles till they die, but that no
new pensions should be granted.
Extract from the wonderfully logical mani-
festo of Melbourne Argus :
If we square the ledger by making necessary reduc-
tions in public expenditure and making up the balance
in judicious taxation, an impetus should be given to en-
terprise, production should Increase, and prosperity be
restored. Further, associations, companies, and trustees
abroad controlling money are thus encouraged to send it
out here for investment. Lastly, public borrowing is
made easier and cheaper, and the Government is thus in
a better position to enter upon works absolutely neces-
sary for the development of the natural resources of this
great country.
So it seems that the “Financial Reform ” that all
the shindy is about is merely a means for getting
further in debt, publicly to Bullcohen and pri-
vately to “ associations, companies, and trustees ”
—a means of being more hopelessly pawned,
owning less of our own country, losing some more
of our spirit of self-dependence, and having more
interest to pay.


ALWAYS GO TO
Catalogues
Free.
PALING’S fok
PIANOS
ORGANS
AND ALL MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
MUSIC
338 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Suffering's in the Head
. . . Cured by . . .
VITADATIO
26 Clark-street, North Williamstown,
And Steamship “ Gem,” Town Pier,
Port Melbourne, October 24,1901.
MR. S. A., PALMER
Dear Sir,—Eleven years ago I was a fisherman at
Sorrento, where I am well-known. I suffered terrible
pains in my head and gradually got from bad ,to worse.
I interviewed a leading doctor, and was under his treat-
ment for three months, and failing to get any relief I then
tried several kinds of patent medicines without any
improvement. Again I interviewed another Melbourne
doctor. He also failed to relieve me, so I gave him up,
and in consequence of my not being able to get proper
rest and sleep I became much reduced and weak ; this
was about three years ago, and this time I was advised to
give VITADATIO a trial, I was glad to try anything, so I
did, and after taking two bottles the pains left me.
Altogether after all these years of suffering I felt quite a
new man, and thought I was cured, and I can assure you
it seemed quite a mystery to me. I could not under-
stand it. I removed to Mornington, and in about twelve
months the same pains came back to my head, and had I
known as much then as I do now about VITADATIO, I
would have continued taking a good course of it. Then
I came to Williamstown and interviewed a local doctor;
his treatment gave me no relief j so I went to Williams-
town Hospital as an out patient for six weeks’ without
any beneficial results. I commenced taking VITADATIO
again, and continued until I had taken the contents of
over two dozen bottles and I am completely cured. I
have gained a stone in weight and I am in the best of
health. I can with confidence recommend VITADATIO
to anyone suffering as I did, and will give any further
information required at my Williamstown address.
Yours faithfully,
JAMES NICHOLS.
We, the undersigned, can testify to the correctness of
the above statement.
J. B. Locking,
24 Railway Cresent,
Williamstown, Engineer, P.S. “Gem.”
H. W. Gobbett,
Steamship “ Gem,”
Williamstown.
S. A. Jones,
No. 4 Park Place, Williamstown.
William Bennett,
22 Montague-street,
South Melbourne.
For further particulars ,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Syd-ney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The Price of Medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
Newman’s
Antiseptic Pastilles.
Tiie Best for all Affections of the Throat.
TRY THEM. PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
S. HARRIS, M. P. S. ( Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Telephone 2288. 82 KING-ST., SYDNEY.
I Missing Friends.
IF this should meet the eye of THOMAS
M‘GEE, write to your Brother CON., 68
PITT STREET, WATERLOO, SYDNEY.
Extract from the Queensland Factories
and Shops Act report:—
In a few cases mole trousers were being finished (in-
cluding making the button-holes) for 2s. 6d., 25., and
even Is. per dozen, and drill trousers for 2s. per dozen.
In these cases the work was sub-let.
Sydney D.T. grammar (flustered about the
defeat of its motion of censure) :
The censure motion has evidently woke up the Attorney-
General.
According to Dr. Pistor, now going round
these parts on a trade-expansion mission from the
Austrian Government, there are a few points to
be gathered even from the confused empire of the
Eagle with two heads. Austria runs a Govern-
ment tobacco monopoly, one result of which is
that the State gets a considerable revenue there-
from, while the consumers paybut3d. peroz. for the
choicest Havana and a farthing for a fairly good
cigar, with tobacco and cigarettes at corresponding
prices. Austria compels its employers, at their
own cost, to insure their hands against accident
and sickness; it has, within the last month,
inaugurated a system of old age pensions, and it
has a Factories Act which regulates the hours
and conditions of employment of men, women
and children, with inspectors in every town and
village to see it carried out. This Act has been in
existence for over 12 years. “ Further,” says Dr.
Pistor, “Austria has no unemployed. Men in
search of work are assisted by the Imperial
Government and by the municipalities, and are
provided with work to the fullest possible extent
without any cost to themselves.”
Do You
Wear a
Truss?
Ip So,
try
Denyer’s Elastic Truss,
IT IS THE VERY BEST.
No Discomfort to Wearer. Suits any Rupture.
P s. i( : es "17/6 Single ; 25 / m Double.
Send Measure and P.O. Order.
nEUVED Done 281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Util I EH DriUO- Opp. Hunter St.
AND AT MELBOURNE.
✓ v\A
<v
<*
o
VS
KfIORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
eyes
%
\>
§
™ E CALLAGHAN BOOT
A GOOD BOOT.
POST FREE
at)d
DUTY FREE
for
24/6
Men’s French Calf
Boot, to button,
pointed or medium
toe, fine made-to-
order appearance,
Black
or
Tan.
: 1
-
k
-
■lk
%
rf/yA;
1&. .
i
rf''
“Messrs. CALLAGHAN & SON,
“ Dear Sirs,—Your Boots to hand. They
are a beautiful fit, and I am highly pleased with
my purchase Thanking you for the way in
which you have treated me, Yours truly,
“ July 24, 1902. “ A. 8., Burraga."
If you are not convenient to our premises, our perfectly-systematised Mail-Order
Department can fit you to your complete satisfaction, or refund your money.
State size of Boot Worn, and whether Pointed or Medium Shape Toe is required.
CALLAGHAN & SON. 395 georce st., Sydney.


„ Banking. Public Companies, etc.
- of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
C 5&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
DNT.S.-W.
(||ont deplete o.*HCo.,[t«l.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
CASTLEREAGH ST. f 74
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
'-Till?-.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. 0. J. Robirts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299—assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
file jjank of [jorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 900 ~. £350.000
Koval Bank of Queensland
* hi MITJCI). U
CAPITAL PAID-UP £451,307
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 181,859
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 56,000
£689,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
IS Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the. World.
Queensland Smelting Qompg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Mary borough.
TTUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
‘ ’ Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 62 Market-street, Melbourne.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
OCEAN
Accident and G-uarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : lion. A. \V. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessof, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Ci.yne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Faiiquiiar. J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia,
131 Pitt St. 4 SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed bj' New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Aniountqf Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,500,000
Haul:, of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office —GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. ~. .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,285,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 2,000,000 0 0
Total .. .. .. 5,285,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Chas. li. Mackkllar, M.L.0., President.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
lion. Reginald James Black, M.LC.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Auditors :
A. G. Milson, Esq. Harrington, Palmer, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Col!ins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £9576 13 4
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq. ;
C, M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FItEDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL J
Tyrian, Saturday, Oct. 11, 2 p.m.
Konoovvarra, Tues., Oct. 14, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer Early.
ALBANY
PREMANTLE
Steamer Early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Saturday, Oct. 11, 2 p.m.
Buninyong, Tues., Oct. 14, 5 p.ra.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Lenra, Saturday, Oct. 11, 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Oct. 18, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cariro
booked l.hrouyh.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Forts.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices —Mutual. Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
WHITE STAR LINE
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
PERSIC, to Sail on or about 24th OCTOBER.
RUNIC, MEDIC, AFRIC, and SUEVIC
to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 27 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 33 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
jfuddart, parker g go’s [ine
—TO —
M HLHOfJKN K, lIOIIAKT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND FORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
.a. nxr id
LINE
via
San Francisco
California.
NEW
SERIES
OF
EXCURSIONS
TO THE
RIVIERA
OF
AMERICA.
FIRST-CLASS THROUGHOUT.
COSTS £6O.
Covering Return Passages, Steamer and Rail, Hotel
Expenses in San Francisco, and Hotel Del Monte,
Southern California, about Ten Days’ stay in America,
with liberty to remain longer. Steamers leave as
follows:
THE GREAT { qVeSnd } HIGHWAY
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM,
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, and AMERICA.
The NEWEST, LARGEST (6000 Tons each), FASTEST,
and ONLY TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS engaged in
the TRANS-PACIFIC PASSENGER SERVICE from
Australia and New Zealand.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCJUA S'. IV STEAMSHIP VO., LTI).
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
riIHE Directors of the PERPETUAL
-L TRUSTEE COMPANY, Limited,
Sydney, have TRUST FUNDS to LEND
in sums from £3OO to £50,000 on security of
revenue-producing City and Suburban Properties
or Country Broad Acres, at from 4 per cent.
Special facilities given for payments in reduction
without fine or notice.
2111 No. 56 ACETYLENE CAS Catalogue
S IB \
7
is the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Best
ACETYLENE CAS GENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, and
everything in connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Gas
Generators
in daily use.
Large Slocks of the
Best
Carbide
ofCalcium
Quotations on application.
James MARTIN & CO.,
161 Clarence Street,
Nr. King-st.,Sydney.
EVERY WOMAN
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new Vaginal Syringe.
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. Endorsed l>y Physicians.
MARVEL CO., Tillies Building, N. Y.
Sole Australasian Agents—
The Marvel Co. ©I Australia,
(Box 623 G.P.0.) CAHDEN BUILDINGS,
418 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonder'll! Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
co.upr sing Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried in vest
po-ket and blown out to life-size (causes roars of
laughter), Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket, Book of
Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin and Card
Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character), The Mafelcing Grub (or
nerve-strengthener), and, last of all, that side-splitting
Look and Laugh Glass, Instructions enclosed.
’lbis splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tii.lia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
Box 3, P. 0., Hay market.
IJ. L. HUTCHINSON,
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 Georcre-streefc, SYDNEY.
The Roman
Hair
Restorer
Produces Brown and Black Hair.
Price 1/6 ; by post, 2/3.
An inexpensive and
certain preparation for
renewing and restoring:
to its original color the
hair of the head, beard
and whiskers.
Largely used by the Roman ladies for preserving- their
magnificent tresses. Nourishes the roots, and removes
dandruff ; increases the quantity, and renders it glossy
and supple ; does not stain the skin nor soil the linen. If
your hair is falling off or turning grey, use this.
CAUTION.—This being different from most prepara-
tions, other kinds should be refused.
JAMES BRINSMEAD and CO., Chemists, ST. KILDA.
tW All Chemists sell it.
3XT. ID. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OP
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sj'dney.
Interstate First Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
Via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. TANGLIIM , 15th OCTOBER,
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
GANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
"ALL-RED” ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL:
Nov. 3, Dec. 1, Dec. 29.
The Cheapest Route
The Quickest Route
The Scenic Route
TO
LOKT DO IST.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
RUPTURE
CURED
without
operation or pain,
'Throw away
your Trust.
no detention from work, or depend'
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
1 SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., ENG.,
Cor Russell a. Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
pSELF CURED
Mr. Robert E.
PARKHURST
of Pitt St., SydiK y, says if any sufferer from DEBILITY,
KIDNEY or BLADDER DISEASE will write him he will inform
them of the perfect home cure that did the work in his case.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian)
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Warrego,
Friday, October 10.
S.S. Marloo,
Saturday, October 11.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S.lnnamincka, Sat., Oct. 11
S.S. Warrego, Sat., Oct. 18.
S.S. Rockton, Sat., Oct. 25.
S.S. Allinga, Friday, Oct. 31.
Jtest and Cheapest ltoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. 8. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Goy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THIS POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Caitms, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON- Twice weekly, via Bris-
bane, Maryborough, and Bundaberg.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Iivery 8 Weeks, via Brls
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Norinanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
via MELBOURNE—Fortnightly.
Tfassenyer Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Agents, 10 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Porta
P AND Q COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
* Leaving Wednesday at 5 p.m. instead of Saturday on
account of the Melbourne races.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £77
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific,
Messageries Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with bha
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows : -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the
etc., and also accompany them to Paris-and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Officer
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE TIIUY, Principal Agent.
“E. ANP A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Through bookings to points in Canada, United States
of America and Europe at special rates.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
Lowest Fares and Freights.
For further information apply to
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
SMOKE . .
T-flU*
■ ■
4?
&
GBD
A
%
INSIST
on having this Brand
and no other.
Largest Depot:
231 CLAR€NC€ STR€€T,
SYOIXTBY.


In Westralian arbitration cases, it having
been ruled that lawyers may not be heard, it is
common to see a solicitor sitting behind a party
to the suit or his lay agent, and frankly instructing
him. The only redeeming feature is that whoever
hires the lawyer has to pay him, no matter whether
he wins or loses.
Acccording to Prof. Towar, from Yankee-
land, new principal of Roseworthy Agricultural
College (S.A.): —
In the geographies studied by the American schoolboy,
the island of Australia is a small spot in the south-east
corner of the world’s map. Its inhabitants are naked
blacks, with long hair covering their entire bodies ; the
principal animals are the kangaroo and the duckbill; and
the climate is so hot that the boy imagines these duck-
bills laying boiled eggs. The boy learns that the begin-
nings of civilisation are marked by the landing of great
numbers of English convicts, hares, and rabbits. . . .
Neither the boy nor his father has any real conception of
the vastness of this great country.
The professor lias been astonished to see the
“large fields” and “immense sheep stations” in
S.A., and, in fact, the only thing that isn’t bigger
than he expected to find it is his salary.
ESTABLISHED 1846.
Babbit Galvanised Wire Netting, 42in. x liin. x 17 guage,
40s. 100-yard rolls ; also Large Stock other Sizes
Wire Netting.
Roofing Pelt, 75ft. bv 32in., Bs. per roll.
600 Tons Bolts and Nuts, up to 30in. long.
Black, Galvanised, Steam Piping, J to Bin. diameter.
Bullock, Leading, Drag, Back Chains, 2d. lb.
Good Quality Fuse in Cases, 300 coils, 4Jd. coil.
Octagon Steel, lin. dia., £2O per ton.
Wood Split Pulley Wheels, 20in. dia., ss. each.
Wire Nails, from 10s. per cwt.
6 Tons Black Hoop Iron, £ x l-16th, £lO 10s. per ton.
And one of the Largest Stocks of Iron-
mongery in Australia. Cheapest Prices.
John Macintosh S° ns^
Wholesale and Retail Ironmongers!
Importers, Builders, Contractors,
Engineers, Plumbers, Blacksmiths,
Cabinet Makers, and Ceneral Iron-
mongery, and Painters Material,
307,323, 325, 276, 278 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THE GREAT
BENDIGO
EXHIBITION
ART UNION
To be drawn at Bendigo on
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24.
TOTAL PRIZES, £2400
£lOOO f <>f is-
£looo for is.
PRIZES TO THE A /)AAO
VALUE OF DISTRIBUTED.
Ist Prize, £lOOO 7th Prize, £25
2nd
3rd
4th
sth
6th
600
400
150
100
75
Bth
9th
10th
11th
12th
15
10
10
10
5
The committee undertakes to provide a purchaser for
the full value of the first prize, less 10 per cent. ; for £250
worth of the second prize, and for £l5O of the third prize
pictures. The winners of the fourth to the twelfth prizes
will have the option of selecting their own pictures.
LAST WEEKS OF SALE.
Secure your Tickets Early from all Stores, Newsagents,
and Stationers throughout Australia.
GEO. V. ALLEN,
General Secretary,
17 Garraway’s Chambers, Queen’s Walk,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE, opp. Town IlalL
IN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade— viz., the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
9ct. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0, or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, 15ct
gold, filled, Bs. 6d. Illustrated catalogues sent free.
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address —
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA
A FORTUNE TO BE MADE.—THE AUTOMATIC
MACHINE CO., 163 E 32nd St., New York, wants
everywhere agents for American novelties and inventions,
as well as collectors to place and supervise their' penny-
in-the-slot machines in spare time, sharing profits.
Special knowledge unnecessary.*
PHOTO
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos.
58. P.O.C. or stamps.
S. RECKNACEL NAGHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Germany.
RARE.
ROOKS
FRENCH,
ENGLISH,
GERMAN,
2/-
Largest Catalogue, with
Specimen Photo. Apply
Box 116 Paris.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.— 3oo Collins St., Melbourne
CLOTHED WITH AIR
AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR
RECOMMENDED by all the leading medical men throughout the world
as the ideal form of body covering, being light to wear, comfortable to
the skin, unshrinkable, easily washed, and very durable ; permits free
evaporation of moisture and deleterious vapours, and is
A Positive Safeguard against Chills,
Undershirts, 35., 45.; Underpants, ss. 6d., 6s. 6d.; Soft-fronted Shirts,
45., ss. ; Soft Shirts (collar and pocket), 4s. 6d., ss. 6d. ; Linen-fitted, ss. 6d.,
6s. 6d., 75.; Pyjamas, Bs. 6d., 9s. 6d., 10s. 6d.; Lady’s Combinations
from ss. 6d. Corsets and all Underclothing.
Illustrated Price Lists post=free on application.
DAVID BRAH AM & CO.,
73 and 75 KINO STREET,
Sole Agents in N.S.W.
SYDNEY.
THE
‘PLUM ’
THf
THE
‘PLUM’
/^ENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify bo
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. OtL
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Peicis
{Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 2ls.
Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case,
Registered and sent Post Free to any part op tiib World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS “““
French’s Acting Edition.
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalog tie of
Hooks -free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
*rTTTT T A A TM7 I book and magic arcade .
W IJ-ili JCXIM UlAiXxiJiii, 201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
2h.p. to lOOh.p.
KING. MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
Noiseless Uuderwater . . .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignitior
with Dynamo.
J. F.
Telephone 2671.
WITH THE KIHC ENGINE—ONE LEVER CONTROLS THE WHOLE.
M: cID E 3 EI MO X T & CO 3VC E» A. 3XT Y,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDKTEY.
CAPILLA
HAIR
TONIC
The Wonder of the
ALL CHEMISTS
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA,
THE PHOTOGRAPHIC SENSATION
OF THE SEASON.
KODAK
Glass
Plate
Cameras
Write fer Illustrated and
Descriptive Leaflet, and
mention this Paper*
KODAK Ltd.,
284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
USE
SPOONER’S
m
SPOONERS
l ifg t
liftTlNT LEATHER BOOTS
GLAZED AIOS 2>?
rf, #*« «Mf
*c« tv*» *«»*•*»*»*•
.iMT)'* m'»'V* # *
Oj**nt*
•HiVi*|U4int
**■ * •’*** *• •js'/jjsjj •
SSsTti**V* 'LtimS
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Medical.
£*cev
Rtu
Rupture
I Dr. Pierce’s Electric Truss
is a Marvel. Nothing like
_ it. Best Retainer on earth
and a Genuine Cure for Rupture.
World renowned. 27 improvem’ts.
If ruptured, send a stamp, (any
sort), for new “Booklet No. 1.”
MAGNETIC E. TRUSS CO., 206 Post Street, San
Francisco, U.S, A,; W. H. Soil I & Co., Agents, Sydney.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
bling Uu constitution
to 1 esist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
' debilitated children.
LANCET. “A beautiful and interesting
preparation.”
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.- I */* fca* all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
i* does not blacken the teeth.”
ROM) BY CHEMISTS Al l. THE WORI.D OVER.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head aches & all Nerve
Pains removed by HUNTER'S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
•‘As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal.; I have
used it successfully for years.”—Prof, W. Wllson, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORS DELL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, Si a.
Of all Stores.
GANT YOU BREATHE
freely ? Have you to sit up in bed gasping for
breath? If so, you are only one of a countless
number whose lives are made a burden to them by
ASTHMA.
If you wish to rest again at night, and breathe
with head erect by day, send ss. to NEWHAM
WATEEWOETH, Edward-st., Brisbane,
who will forward post free a sample bottle of a
New Remedy for Asthma, a few doses of which
will prove to you that life is still worth living.
Skins Soft&White
BY USING
iiri
Healthy
'Complexions Preserved.


The Popularity OF THE M RED BIRD”
is due to various causes—its general constitution, its lines of beauty, its strength, speed, etc., etc.
But we point to one feature only— lTS BEARINGS —and ask you to believe that no other machine
of any manufacture can boast such perfect specimens of mechanical ingenuity. The quality of a *
machine is in its bearings. Try a RJED BIRD for the road, and you will have solved the problem
of speed with safety and comfort.
Branches in every State. GOOLP BICYCLE CO tl 64 King-st., Sydney.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Cyclists interested in the New Vulcanised
Dunlop T.yre cannot do better than drop a post card to
any of the Dunlop depots for a copy of their new illus-
trated booklet giving all particulars and advantages of
the new tyre, which are of considerable value to cyclists.
Copies are posted gratis upon application.*
There has been a forlorn effort in the
columns of Sydney D.T. to raise up a “Camden
movement ” in N.S.W. to imitate the Victorian
Kyabramapootra. Camden is just the sort of
place to start a great popular movement —the for-
tress of the Macarthur - Onslows, where those
gilded and haughty descendants of First Fami-
lies grow the aristocratic asparagus on their
“ estates,” tilled by their “ retainers ” —but the
movement fizzled out badly from the start. An
effort is being made now to revive it with “a
great demonstration on the Friedman case” at
Camden, where 20 pathetic retainers and five
scented Macarthur - Onslows will be solemnly
exhorted by Mr. Joseph Carruthers and others.
But N.S.W. has no room for a Camden move-
ment : the secesh silliness takes up all the fool-
power of the State just now.
The Australian Star (Sydney) told this
weird, wild tale the other night, and gravely
credited it to the profoundly serious and matter-
of-fact London Shipping Gazette :
Captain Luigi Montani, of the steamship Sardegna,
which has just arrived at Naples from the United States
with a large number of emigrants on board, recounts an
extraordinary tale of adventure. Shortly after entering
the Gulf Stream, near the Mexican Gulf, a suspicious
looking brigantine hove in sight, from which piercing
cries were heard proceeding. Captain Montani immedi-
ately gave orders for pursuit, and, under a threat of
sinking the vessel, brought her to a halt. He then
arrived his crew, boarded the strange craft and began to
search her. It proved to be a pirate ship. Twenty-five
pirates, who sought to slink away in small boats, were
surrounded by an overwhelming force, and captured.
They were all Carribean negroes or creoles.
Two beautiful girls were discovered bound to the
timbers of the ship, with their mouths gagged, and on
being freed they had a heart-rending story of brutality to
tell. • The brigantine had been seized by these pirates,
who wounded the original crew and the captain, whose
guests the girls were, and threw them overboard. The
pirates thereupon steered the vessel, which had a large
cargo of she-goats, towards the Antilles.
The man who built up that hairy joke certainly
took a lot of trouble over its details. Principal
ones are the large body of emigrants going from
the United States to Italy; the beautiful girls
who screamed-so loudly that they were heard as
soon as the pirate craft hove in sight; the pirates
who couldn’t fight; the fact that the girls who
screamed so tremendously were gagged and con-
sequently speechless ; and the large cargo of she-
goats. If it had been stated that the ship was also
loaded with brick-bats and dictionaries the tale
would have left nothing to be desired.
Great Workmanship.
The honor accorded to the man who hits the
bull’s eye more often than his comrades, does not
come to the man with an unsteady hand and a
weak eye. Let us compare. The merit of words
lays in hitting the mark, and this sort of shooting
only comes from the men with a straight tongue.
Thus it is that the' testimony of Mr. John McColl,
12 Caledonia-street, Paddington, Sydney, may
come as a blessing to all who have unsteady hands
and weak eyes, and in the competition of the
world all men may be equal. There is no mis-
taking the truth there: “It is with great
pleasure that I send you this letter to inform you
of the great benefits I have derived from the use
of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. For years I
have suffered greatly from constipation, and have
tried all sorts of medicines other than yours, but
of no avail. A few months ago I was recom-
mended to try your pills, and am pleased to say
they have been in every way beneficial to me. I
am now enjoying the best of health. You may
use this letter as you think fit, and I shall be glad
to always recommend your valuable medicine tot
all my friends who may suffer from such com-
plaints, from which lam now free.” Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are a positive cure for biliousness,
indigestion, constipation, headaches, sallow com-
plexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples,
boils and blotches, and for female ailments. Sold
by chemists and storekeepers, Is l|d per bottle,
or six bottles 6s fid. Sole Proprietors, The W.
H. Comstock Co., Limited. (Australasian
Depot), 58 Pitt-street, Sydney. Packed in amber
bottles and the full name blown thereon.*
Hardy’s Tintara Wines
Absolutely Pure; Fully Matured; 700 Medals, etc.
Adelaide:
CURRIE STREET
Melbourne:
COLLINS STREET
Sydney:
GROSVENOR STREET
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The absolute darkness town bettors are in with
regard to course possibilities was well exemplified through
Varwick * arm doings, Saturday. Right up to the death,
tens (with hardly a shilling laid) were offered the two
winners. Alba Belle and Bar One. Stay-at-home punters
backed Denbies down to twos for the Farm Stakes, but
he won immediately preceding Stewards’ Mile (wherein
eights and tens could have been had ahout him for a long
time), and never started in the other. Durham, a hot
thing aU day m the “shops” (at 2 to 1 and 6 to 4) for
race Welter, didn t go to the post, though on the ground.
u the 8 eelc anc * fortune-pampered city vendor of
odds has a great thing on, especially when trainers and
owners ostentatiously send to the courses horses that are
never intended to face the barrier.
• * • t
Notorious place-getter, T.M.S., who almost
invariably follows immediately behind the winner, no
matter what the company, added further, Saturday and
Monday, to his great list of prominent showings without
actually landing the money. At Warwick Farm he was
second, in the principal event, to Alba Belle, and on
Monday, when Alba Belle, well backed for Demonstration
Handicap with its attendant Tatt.’s sweep, failed to get
a drum, T.M.S. finished second to Steelbusk and in front
of a more than ordinarily good lot. As his displays in one
race are encouraging for the next, coin goes on each
time—hence this remarkably consistent performer must
owe punters a pretty big sum. Turf history has no
record of Mo. having had such another friend, though he
has had many, particularly “ in-and-outers,” but there’s
nothing in and out about T.M.S. : he is the one thing
always.
• • * •
Reversals of form, with nagsconcerned weightily-
supported, were very pronounced at Canterbury Park
(Monday) as compared with Warwick Farm (Saturday).
Oudal won Jumper’s Flat easily (Saturday), with Zeno 11.
last, but their positions were almost reversed in the
Hurdles (Monday). Alba, Belle closed on Warwick Farm
Handicap well (Saturday), but cut up badly in Demon-
stration Handicap (Monday). Bar One secured Warwick
Pace Welter easily (Saturday), but fell in Eight Handicap
(Monday). .Denbies annexed Stewards Mile as he liked
(Saturday), but was second last to enter the straight in
Labor Handicap (Monday), and finished sixth. Yet people
will back horses.
* • ■* *
Jumper Steelbusk appropriated Canterbury
Demonstration Handicap Monday and also probably a cut
of Tatts. sweep for his owner, “ Dick ” Wootton. Racing
over timber seems to have improved the nag considerably
for he showed plenty of foot and shaped like a stayer who’ll
make an impression in better company when wanted.
Steelbusk is by Metal from Staylace who was out of Neck-
lace, the dam of that occasionally brilliant performer
Cordon.
» » * *
Not unlikely that the winners of both Cups
were seen racing at Flemington last Saturday. Strata
Florida’s easy defeat of Wakeful at a difference of 161bs.
seems to justify all that was said about the son of
Grafton and Lady Trenton during the winter. The colt’s
chance for the Melbourne Cup is undeniable. He is a
fine stayer, unless the people who should know most
about his capabilities have strangely deceived themselves.
His speed was apparent when he romped away from the
champion mare. Of course, it is probable that Wakeful
didn’t show her Randwick form last Saturday. The fact
that Great Scot ran her to a head suggests that she
suffered considerably from “ interference ” ere she lost
her position half-a-mile from home. Nevertheless, after
getting to the front again, she couldn’t make a show
against Strata Florida. On this running, making allow-
ance for the bump she got, the mare is no female Car-
bine. In a year when the youngsters look to be above
the average, her prospects of humping lOst. 51bs. first
past the post for Melbourne Cup are decidedly blue.
Present scribe reckons that The Victory and one or two
other of the heavier weights hold Wakeful safe.
* * * *
Combat’s capture of the Stand Handicap (1£
miles) in somewhat faster time than Strata registered for
the same distance, was a taking performance. Some of
the ruck horses in this race were being ridden to lose ;
all the same, Combat, carrying several pounds more than
his Caulfield Cup weight, put up an attractive perfor-
mance. Both he and Great Scot look dangerous for the
big handicap on the 18th. But there are others ;
Oadenas, Flagship, and The Idler, for instance, ran
“nowhere” last Saturday without weakening their
backers’ faith. Something from Ballarat will loom large
in the market presently, and perhaps there is a dark one
of consequence in the Miller stable. The next Caulfield
Cup question can be left for another week.
* * ♦ *
Caulfield meeting starts next Saturday, when
the Stakes, the Guineas, and Toorak Handicap will clear
away a lot of doubts concerning what’s what for the two
Cups. Abundance should win the Stakes if he is more of
a “good thing” for Derby and Melb. Cup than Strata
Florida. The latter may manage to beat Great Scot for
the Guineas, though the mile course is more in favor of
the well-named Lochiel colt. As for the Toorak Handi-
cap, there are several likely winners, whose starting, or
scratching, is an open question at time of writing. The
penalty that a Toorak victory entails will keep some of
the Cup horses from competing ; and, though the mile
flutter is bound to be instructive, it will not be so useful
a public trial for the 0.0. as the Ooongy Handicap (11
furlongs), which happens on the Wednesday. Punters
who want to know something good had better wait and
get their information from the Ooongy Handicap result.
■ : * * m *
Consistent and heavy backing of Air Motor for
coming Caulfield Cup reminds that one of the principal
parties behind that nag has a nice little bet—something
like £2500 to 60 odd. He’ll be able to lay a “ thou.” to a
century of this off directly (all going well), and stand on
velvet in consequence. Air Motor’s prospects look rosy
enough, but mares have been singularly unsuccessful in
Caulfield Cups, not since Grace Darling’s year (’B5) has a
she appropriated that rich plu m.
* * * *
“Tattersall,” under the Sweep Suppression
clause in the Postal Act, or whatever they call it, appears
to be steadily recovering the use of his paralysed biz. His
one sweep on the Doncaster Handicap closed with 25,000
subs. A,t that rate, the Hobart tactician seems likely to
rake in fully £150,000 for his Caulfield and Melbourne
Cup “ consultations,” and next year his receipts should
he almost as big as ever they were, the incidental expenses
which might have gone to feed the postal revenue being
diverted into other channels. So much forP.M.G. Drake’s
foolish interference with a public dissipation. Unpopular
enactments against gambling have never achieved their
purpose in any country, whereas popular legislation,
honestly enforced, could suppress the evil every time.
But the police are bribed into deafness, blindness and
dumbness where the most pernicious form of gambling is
concerned. The illicit Ikey converts decent youths into
criminals. Policemen hardly need bribing. They are
personally interested in the manufacture of crime, any-
how.
* * * *
“Euroa”: Recently struck this in Kipling’s
“ Plain Tales from the Hills ” (“ The Broken Link Handi-
cap ”):—“ Shackles’ jockey, Brunt, was a quite well-
behaved boy, but his nerve had been shaken. He began
his career by riding jump-races in Melbourne, where the
stewards want lynching, and was one of the jockeys who
came through the awful butchery—perhaps you will
recollect it—of the Maribyrnong Plate. The walls were
colonial ramparts—logs of jarrah spiked into masonry—
with wings as strong as church buttresses. Once in his
stride a horse had to jump or fall. He couldn’t run out.
In the Maribyrnong Plate 12 horses were jammed at the
second wall. Red Hat, leading, fell this side, and threw
out The Gled, and the ruck came up behind, and the
space between wing and wing was one struggling,
screaming, kicking shambles. Four jockeys were taken
out dead ; three were badly hurt, and Brunt was among
the three. He told the story of the Maribyrnong Plate
sometimes; and when he described how Whalley, on Red
Hat, said—as the mare fell under him—‘ God ha’ mercy
I’m done for 1 ’ and how, next instant, Sithee There and
White Otter had crushed the life out of poor Whalley, and
the dust hid a small hell of men and horses, no one mar-
velled that Brunt had dropped jump-races and Australia
together.” And the Maribyrnong Plate is a 6-furlong
race for 2-year-olds !
• * * *
A by no means remote possibility for Caul-
field Oup is Victorian six-year-old country crack, Mur-
lagan, by Pilgrim’s Progress—Lady Jane. She is finely
grown, and has heaps of Oups (scooped throughout the
Western district) to her credit, albeit her only metro-
politan success was Maribyrnong Handicap last August.
Murlagan gallops most encouragingly on the track, and
is, beyond argument, better now as far as condition goes
than ever before in her career. Alongside the back-
breaking loads she has humped up country 6.10 will be a
feather.
* • * *
“Gun”: Re scratching of Simile (mentioned
Bulletin 4/10/’O2). It was a pair of fore-front racing men
who fell in heaviest; they got all they could iii Sydney and
Melbourne for hedging purposes and were left with the
lot, as, without warning, the thing was done in a stroke.
The very day the Melbourne operators succeeded in
making Simile first favorite for the Caulfield Cup the
owner quietly took him out. Though some unsophisti-
cated backers dropped their “stuff” it was the Moseses
who got it hottest—an agreeable change. Simile’s owner
has been patted on the back much since.
» • * »
Decline in S.A. tote biz. continued at Adelaide
Hunt Club’s races Saturday, when the falling-off, as com-
pared with last year, reached £1311; this spite of a large
attendance. Falls were frequent. Hurdles saw both
Respond and I’ythian break their necks; rider (A.
Bennetts) of first-named sustained a fractured spine,
while t’other nag’s jock (11. Holmes) had his left arm
broken.
* * * *
Up-country performer Denbies, only a day or
two in Sydney, gathered Stewards’ Mile at Warwick Farm
Saturday easily, starting even-money favorite. He is by
Sunrise from Vapor (a mare by Sweetmeat from May, by-
Malta) and well-formed and good-looking enough to make
troops of friends. The country trip seems to have bene-
fited Denbies materially; prior to going there he was
trained in Sydney for some time, but did no good.
Successes at Wagga and Albury were his most recent ere
returning to the metropolis.
» * • *
Thrice previously postponed meet of Dubbo
Trotting Club eventuated at Brighton (N.S.W.), Friday,
last week. Among the gathering of distinguished trotters
was “Bob” Beckett’s chestnut gelding, Sailor Boy 11.,
bred by North Island (M.L.), Maoris. He owns a record of 67
successes achieved throughout the continent, and is said to
be verging on 28 years old. Despite his sere and yellow
state Sailor Boy was second twice and only missed
winning one race by a narrow margin. Seeing that the
opposing material was high quality, Sailor Boy’s two
starts and prominent showing (all things considered) were
highly meritorious.
* • • •
“ Jab ”: Sando wis unquestionably a very strong
man, but he is just as unquestionably a freak—his mar-
vellous muscular development is, in the writer’s opinion,
inherited. Larry Foley tells of a milkman who shows
wonderful muscle everywhere, and never did anything in
the way of hard work beyond milking cows and driving
carts, and there’s surely nothing about these occupations
calculated to bring such a wealth of thew into existence?
To several pressmen Sandowhas said : “ I was a weakling
at 18 ; I have developed all this since.” Another inter-
viewer writes : “ Sandow has many stories to tell of his
school-days. A common diversion was a mock bull-fight.
His comrades teased a bull until he became very
angry, and it was then Sandow’s duty to face the
charge until the bull was nearly upon him, and then
to turn aside like lightning, and leave him to bellow with
rage. A favorite trick in this dangerous schoolboy game
was when Sandow armed himself with a stick and the
boys drove the bull to charge him as he stood close to a
ditch or hollow in the ground. As the animal rushed
him he dropped into the hollow. The bull, of course,
vaulted over it, and the boy’s object was to hit him with
the stick as he passed.” This isn’t the sort of game for a
“weakling” schoolboy to get up to ; such a lad would
hardly be chosen by his comrades for so hazardous an
amusement as facing the charge of a maddened bull; or
maybe the explanation is that Sandow didn’t go to school
till he developed his powers—after 18 years of age ?
* • * *
Wagga (N.S.W.) pug, Harry Lynch, and negro
middleweight, Ike Stewart, looked like serving up an
exciting battle at Sydney Gaiety A.O. last week, but the
thing proved a sickening affair, and ended in the 14th
round through Lynch turning it up. Neither was
anything like properly prepared, and though Lynch
fought with force, his work was often badly directed, and
never properly effective. Stewart evidently had a
tired and a- scared feeling, for he kept away as far as
possible, when he might have been in doing damage, and
only once or twice rose to his best form, which isn’t extra
high. It was a match of a nature calculated to make
the most ardent enthusiast forswear the game for ever.
There have been several of the sort in Sydney lately.
* * * *
First clear-cut bruise for Australasian heavy-
weight supremacy in these degenerate latter years
occurs at newly-opened National Sporting Club, Sydney,
Monday night, ’tween Victorian holder, Bill Doherty, and
N.S.W. fore-fronter, Billy M‘Call. Inducement is a £3OO
purse. Each has an army of followers, and as both are
attuned to the moment, there’ll be whips of cash and
excitement. Most judges prefer M'Call’s chance, in view
of previous pronounced successes and the fact that he,
though no chicken himself, is years younger than
Doherty. Writer, however, hasn’t seen anything of. the
champion about M'Call in any one of his wins—he is
shoulder-bound, and swings mostly ; sometimes one move-
ment follows quickly after the other, leaving'the whole
body open, and his punching power is by no means extra
heavy. The fact that he has kept atop'so far only indi-
cates the extreme poverty of the opposition. Doherty
was a good man when good men were fairly plentiful, as
was proved by his win (with only a few days preparation)
from the streaky negro, Felix, a few months ago.
Doherty has a fine, straight, effective left that will get
inside the Cornstalk’s swings, and leave a mark every
time ; he can “ cross ” too, and hard enough to knock the
toughest down, when opportunity allows. Given a fair
go, this scribe expects to see Doherty get away with the
money and the decision inside half-a-dozen rounds at the
most.
* * * *
Bigger and older brother (“Bill”) of the three
Australian artillerymen, who deal out and take stoush
under the assumed name of “Thompson,” took’Murkan
heavy-weight, Jim Scanlan, on at Sydney Gaiety A.C.,
Monday night, before a good house. It was an old-
womanish thing from the outset: they pawed at and
sprawled over each other as if neither had ever “ put ’em
up ” before. Thompson hit out of distance and lost his
balance often, while Scanlan did likewise occasionally,
and shaped worse than since reaching Australia. Each
in turn let t’other get a left home without the slightest
attempt to stop, counter, or guard. Scanlan bled from
the nose in the first round, the result of a left jab. The
second round was a maul, and the crowd howled
derisively. The men bumped each other, got arms and
legs entangled—and generally were completely mixed, for
neither appeared to have “ head ” enough to do anything
at the right moment and in the right way. About limin.
of the second round (4imin. of fighting altogether) had
passed when an opening, wide as a street, gave Scanlan
the chance to jolt a right home on the ear, and while
Thompson staggered, another landed on the point, send-
ing him down limp as a wet rag. It was a very sickening
thing as a mill. “Snowy” Sturgeon would settle the
two of them inside one round. Scanlan was never a
wonder, but he has gone back to nothing almost since his
first meeting with M’Ooll.
» * * *
A prominent pugilist who has a reputation for
trying to observe law ’n’ order, knowing that the law is
prone to make it particularly hot for his order if it gets a
chance, has as much to put up with now as in the days of
the “bucks.” In a Melb. bar recently writer saw a slim
youth in a state of baby-drunk go up to Peter Felix, the
colored pug, who stands over two yards high in his socks,
and strike him a feeble swipe in the face. The pug looked
down at his assailant for a moment, then made a shoo-fly
motion, and said, quietly : “Go ’way ; don’t annoy me 1’
• • * *
Hottest fight seen in Sydney for long was
between colored man Blakesley (legs and wings mostly)
and sturdy new hand Dibley in the final of Gaiety A.O.’s
novice tourney on Friday last. From end to end of 10
solidly fought rounds each took a thumping in a most
cheerful manner. Blakesley found the jaw now and again
with plain effect, but Dibley’s grit stood to him and a left
that would have made many a champion turn green with
envy went on grimly accumulating points. In the end
Dibley got the verdict and the money with a lot to the
good, and those who saw him shape then are anxious to
see him at work again in front of some “ class ” man, for
he has all the championship qualifications. Such grit has
rarely been shown by two men. Blakesley went away
with a mound above the eye that a bump against a
locomotive would hardly have accounted for.
* * * »
Young Ed. Williams, the lanky Port Melb. kid
who is coming out smartly as a likely scrapper, scored
another victory at Fitzroy Athletic Club on Wednesday,
lstinst., when he whacked Cobben out in one sudden
round. Oobben is no slouch, but was jolted on the jaw
in the first minute, went down for 9sec. in a praying
attitude, went down again, was rescued by the gong, and
dozsd in his corner so hopelessly that the towel was
tossed in. Williams is only 18, and has an unbeaten
record.
• • * *
Dan Creedon, who has brought the middle-
weight championship of England back with him, is to be
accommodated with a profitable opponent in Bill Doherty.
Win or lose in his mill with M'Oall, Doherty has under-
taken to meet Oreedon in the Hibernian Hall’ Melbourne,
on Oaks night, Nov. 6. The men will fight for anything
up to £5OO, and the contest should draw as well as Felix
v. Doherty—better if Doherty comes out of his champion-
ship scrap right side up—as Oreedon is a good fighter,
and has merits apart from his English championship.
English pug championships can be picked up two a penny
just now.
•.*. . • *
A lad named Braham, playing for St. Paul’s
cricket club (Adelaide) against the St. Oswald’s team, in a
junior match, on Saturday, Sept. 27, captured all 10
wickets for 4 runs. The other bowler had 2 runs knocked
off him, and there were 3 sundries, the total score being
9. George Giffen learnt his cricket on the Adelaide Park
lands, where this performance took place.
* * • •
At Adelaide mayoral picnic on Saturday, Sept.
27, the Municipalities met Parliament and Press in a
cricket match, and, going in first, made 70 runs. Oppo-
sition leader Darling (Captain Joe’s brother) captured
two wickets with his first two deliveries, and ended with
an average of 3 for 20 ; while Wilton (Advertiser leader
of the staff) took 3 for 8.
• * * »
Lord Hawke’s team may yet visit Australia, en
route from Maoriland. The composition of the team does
not promise much, and it could hardly be expected to
extend a representative Australian eleven. Only three,
T. L. Taylor, Burnup, and Warner, oan be considered
even approaching first class. The majority of the team
are unknowns ; the last selection, presumably the reserve
wicketkeeper, is appropriately 7 called Whatman.
• * » •
Sydney University again appears as a first-grade
club ; but, though possessing some promising players, is
sure to find vacations and exams, too much for its
chances of a good season’s record. G. R. O. Clarke, the
slow bowler, is now Dr. Clarke, resident of Newcastle
Hospital, which means his disappearance from first-class
cricket.
* * • *
Sydney cricket grade competition opened aus-
piciously, Saturday. Early morning rain queered some
wickets slightly. Scoring generally was low. Best
figures were—Waverle.v’s 216 for two wickets against
Paddington’s 70, Mackenzie accumulating 97 (not out),
which leaves him going strongly for the first hundred of
the season in the senior grade. On the same side, Ebs-
worth compiled 81 (including 15 fours and 2 fives) inside
an hour. Pitt’s leg-breaks for North Sydney proved
disastrous to Redfern, of which side six went down to
him for 40. North Sydney has five wickets left to get 47,
and win. With nine wickets for 64, and 48 more to get,
’Varsity looks a gift to Sydney. M’Beath bagged five of
the ’Varsity for 19. Central Cumberland should beat
Burwood, for, with two wickets gone for 82, they’ve got
but 149 to exceed. Leichhardt-Balmain, opposed to Glebe,
were in the whole afternoon, and only accumulated 161
with eight wickets fallen.
• * * *
Last season’s hideous farce of having one selec-
tor of the inter-State cricket team will not be perpetrated
this year, theN.S.W. Cricket Association having appointed
three for the position—Messrs. Noble, Mackenzie and
Iredale. Previously it has been the rule of a “sole”
selector to exclude any player if he has a black skin or a
hideous rumor has been told of him ; and last season
aboriginal bowler Marsh (admitted by everyone as the
best bowler in the State, and proven by his averages) had
to stand down.
• * * •
“ The Prooshan ” : Why are the pitches allowed
to be spoilt for the. test-matches, or indeed any matches,
by rain when a strip of canvas 66ft.x8ft. would preserve
them ? Imagine Roberts starting a billiard test-match
on a table that had been out in the wet all night 1
• * * ¥
“Cash”: No need to exaggerate, as “J.R.”
does (8., 27/9/’O2), the absurdity of the military ride from
Brussels to Ostend, as cabled. Every horseman, and
every pressman, knew something was wrong with the
time sent —12hr. 54min. Many of the dailies left out all
mention of distance (which is known to be somewhere
about 80 miles), so as not to appear openly absurd. The
mails now show the time to have been six hours 54min.
for 87 miles. Many of the riders killed their horses out-
right, and finished on foot ; the only Englishman com-
peting was among these. Other horses got home mere
wrecks. The first which the judges passed as in good
condition took the comfortable time of 18hr. 14min. A
miserable exhibition altogether, proving nothing, and of
no value. The Kaiser refused to allow any German
officers to take part in it.
London papers report a curious hitch over
Lane’s 100yds. champion win. The judge placed Cavill
second, Derbyshire third (all three men finishing in a
heap), and the timekeepers both made the time lmin.
exactly. This entitled Lane to a record medal and certi-
ficate. But, on the timekeepers being called upon for
their usual formal statement before a new record could
be admitted, they refused to give it, both agreeing that
Cavill and Derbyshire swam a dead-heat, with Lane
actually third ! This makes an actual deadlock, so far as
the record is concerned. Lane’s 220yds. champion was
another record, and was again so close that many thought
Cavill dead-heated.
* * • *
New -Australian swimming season opened Oct.
1, “Natation Day,” and occasion was marked in one
shape and another by different swimming associations of
the Commonwealth and M.L. Venue of this year’s
Australasian premierships has been fixed at Brisbane in
January or February. First N.S.W. championship is
down for early in December, by which time it is certain
that “ Dick ” Cavill, and probably Lane and Read, will be
back, the first-named couple with their recently-gathered
world’s-reeord laurels. Indications are that the season
will develop one or two who’ll shake up present
champions, notably Cecil Healy, of East Sydney
Club, who swam second for the “ hundred ” blue
ribbon last year ; his improvement is said to be most
pronounced, mainly through adopting Oavill’s great sprint
stroke dubbed the “ crawl.” When properly acquired,
swimming knows no faster method of propulsion than
this. The head is kept low on the water, even to hamper-
ing breathing, so that the body may be equally poised.
All the power comes from the arms, the action of which
is on the “ Trudge ” principle, but short and very quick ;
the legs lie straight, and are worked propeller-like, as if
paddling along ; thus is “drag” avoided, for the short
downward motion has the effect of keeping the nether
limbs well on the surface. This means of moving, if it
can be brought to bear over distances, threatens to knock
all nowaday time achievements endways, but up to date
60yds. is the full extent of the “crawl” swimmer's
powers.
* * • •
Shoalhaven (N.S.W.) sculler “Jim” Wray (in
’Murka for a couple of years) has challenged Geo. Towns
to row for world’s premiership, just on the eve of the
recently-married champ.'s coming home to Australia.
Towns refused to scull in England or Yankeedom, but
will tackle any man on the Parramatta River for £5OO
a side. Wray’s offer is clearly a bluff, as ’twas only issued
after Towns’ world-wide published announcement that he
intended returning home after having waited a year
without the prospect of another match. Besides, Towns
and his newly-made wife are on a honeymoon trip. Wray
is unquestionably a good sculler, but only for a “ burst,”
and, in view of the fact that both Towns and Englishman
Barry have squelched him, his claims for consideration
are decidedly poor. Were Wray to come out to these
parts again he’d find more than one ready to take him on,
and not a man amongst them a Towns either.
* m • #
Bananaland cross-country supremacy was de-
cided the sixth year in succession at Rockley, Saturday.
Three miles of broken bush country, with 19 leaps of a
varied nature, constituted the journey. Sixty-nine
starters represented nine clubs. 0.0. Saunderson, with
a broken arm recently sustained, and still swathed, suc-
ceeded —the fourth time consecutively—and got through
the task in 16.28 2-5. Olul) premiership went to East
Brisbane.


ICE! ICE! ICE!
The hot, stifling Summer days are approaching. ,
Have a Refrigerator, and keep Ice. It is a solid comfort, and Joesn t cost much.
Our Ice is manufactured from Distilled Water. ABSOLUTELY PURE; CLEAR and
“ H We E Lpih ANT KAIWAY STATION IN THE STATE p^
in specially constructed cases. Waste during transit is very slight. Write for a quotation,
and full catalogue of our products.
Deliveries regular by special carts in Sydney and Suburbs.
THE N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., Ltd., SYDNEY.
PONT
take everything for granted that you hear — see and judge for yourself.
When we say that
MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLES
are positively unequalled in the world for quality, we believe we are speaking
the truth. We are experts and ought to know—but we prefer that you should
come and see our new models and judge for yourself. We can then show you the
points of superiority, and explain on what grounds we base our contention that
the “MASSEY” stands facile princeps.
THE CANADA CYCLE & iTOTOR CO., Ltd.,
357 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches in Every State.
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
BUY A
REMINGTON £ oub,e ; B .™ e U:._-
_ Hammerless Gun.
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept in stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company,
Head Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 10s. to £is
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free
McLEAN BROS. & RICG, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
Premier Jenkins made short work of an
Adelaide W.C.T.U. deputation which asked him
to abolish barmaids, make cigarette-smoking by-
boys criminal, and introduce a curfew-bell. He
believed the employment of barmaids to be
“ detrimental to the best interests of the com-
munity,” but he declined to legislate ; he refused
to support any law which would lead to the arrest
of young children, and the curfew system he
plainly set down as cruel and unhealthy. Fancy
the mind of the female who would drive children
indoors, to a three-roomed, iron-roofed house, on
evenings when the thermometer stands near 100°!
Patents fob Inventions. —Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.*
The Tasmanian Parliament’s proposed
legislation against “tied houses” got as far as
the second reading in the Upper House. Then
G. P. Fitzgerald, a local trader and chairman of
the chief brewery co. in Hobart, appeared at the
bar of the House in defenceof theenslaved pub. sys-
tem. G.P.F. vigorously denounced the personswho
proposed to interfere with “Freedom of Contract,”
“The Liberty of the Subject,” “Private Enter-
prise,” &c., and the 10 old gentlemen present, as
soon as they heard these familiar sounds, cast the
obnoxious clauses down the stairway. They
called no evidence on the other side. Whenever
they heard “Freedom of Contract” and “Pri-
vate Enterprise ” mentioned they knew it was all
right.
Maoriland is on the verge of a general
election, and it will be such a one as the State
hasn’t had for a dozen years. Seddon went away
at the wrong time, and left Joseph Ward in
charge. Ward is a boomer of the See or Duncan
Gillies class, and he has been laying himself out
to buy support in all directions by a frantic scat-
tering of loan moneys, by promises of more loan
moneys, and by truckling to fads and sects. There
was no need to buy support by these silly devices,
for the Government was strong enough, but Ward
is so proud of his diplomacy that, if there isn’t an
enemy to buy over, he would sooner buy over a
friend than not buy over anybody at all.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drhes away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London. *
The above illustration is one of London’s latest
Style of gold brooch, an English pheasant inside a
orescent. It is a most novel and attractive pro-
duction and quite a work of art. The body
and wings are set with pearls and turquoise and
the eye with a ruby, making it most effective. It
is without doubt the essence of refined taste. The
selling price of the brooch is 30s, being most
reasonable and it is one of many thousands on
view at A. Saunders’ spacious showrooms, George-
street, Sydney (opposite Red fern Railway
Station).
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
33 of this issue *
SHARPSHOOTINg
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett.:
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W.W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative).
SOAPS dubbed Shaving
are rarely
Shaving Soaps.
In a Class by Themselves
The World’s Standard Shavin:; Soaps
Williams’ Barber’s Bar
and
Williams’ Shaving Stick
“BARBER’S BAR”
While the natural Ally
Of the Deft Artist
And his Trusty Blade
Is also the Ideal Soap
For Home Use
Fits your Birthday Mug
Once tried, never changed
“Won’t Dry on the Face.”
Send a Penny Stamp and we will post you Williams’
Changing Face Puzzle. Can you explain it?
J. B. WILLIAMS CO., Glastonbury, Conn., U.S.A. Vi-
and at 232 Olarenee-st., Sydney.
I IS
uisa
M
1
R
ffl
m
'li'Oß the person who is not a millionaire, thereis ONLY
x ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,” “Mg
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor—GEO. IK. ELLIS.
The release of Moss Friedman recalls a
somewhat similar episode in N.S.W. political his-
tory—the release of Frank Gardiner, though
Gardiner’s case was far more serious for the prime
actors. The Government of the day was literally
swept out of the House, and the Governor had a
lot to do to escape the storm. Parkes, in after
Administrations, always obtained from his Minis-
ter for Justice an assurance, before the appoint-
ment was completed, that he (the Minister
designate) would sign no order for the release of
any prisoner without consulting the Premier.
More than one politician declined the office of
Justice on those terms ; but there were still plenty
to take it —and most of them were a cheap lot.
An Australian, writing to The Bulletin
from Port Elizabeth, S’Africa, gives the palm for
riotousness to the “ Tommy ”: —
Since the Peace this and other sea ports have been
overrun with Tommies down from the front —and their
behavior !! Three “ indecent assaults ”in one week in
this town (one of them a particularly disgusting Mount
Eennie-like affair) ; one inoffensive citizen nearly battered
to death in the street for refusing to stand liquor for
total strangers (he is now in hospital with a broken leg) ;
a coolie fruit-shop wrecked and the till carried away ;
attempts to enter private houses all over the town, and
at all hours. These are items of which I can speak from
knowledge. No decent woman dare venture out alone.
The police can do nothing, and we can only pray for the
transports to come and take the brutes away. Booze,
obscenity, and an entire absence of personal decency
appear to be the chief characteristics of the British soldier
in Africa. The Australians look like men beside them.
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
The Curse works in London also. At the
Stepney Borough coroner’s court, a few weeks ago,
Robert Lavender, aged 8 months, was on trial as
to his reason for quitting an unusually small
amount of earthly tenement. It turned out that
the father of the family was at “the front,” and the
mother earned Bs. 6d. a week, out of which she was
attempting to support four persons when Robert
took the step already referred to. The coroner
said it was remarkable how some people lived, and
the London jury humorously returned a verdict
“death from natural causes.” A less frivolous
body of men would have called it death from
unnatural cruelty and failure to attend to the
advice given in Kipling’s very bad poem.
Piles and their Cure. —The pamphlet by
Albert Sharp, “Piles and How to Cure Them,”
without operation, by the latest Cannalin treat-
ment, sent free on application to 257 George-st.,
Sydney, or F. Buckhurst, Chemist, Melbourne,
or W. Wasted, Chemist, Adelaide.*
By sheer bullying, the debenture-holders
of the defunct Midland Railway Co. have per-
suaded the Maoriland Government to introduce a
Bill by which they are to be granted £150,000. It
has been decided by the highest courts of the
empire that the debenture-holders have no claim,
but when the State makes a bargain with a private
syndicate, the theory always is that the syndicate
should demand all the rights specified in the bond
and ask for more, while, if the State enforces its
rights to the letter, it is always called a bowelless
oppressor of the widow and the orphan. For
demanding only part of its own the Maoriland
Government has had the alleged Midland Railway
orphan thrown up at it for seven years, and at
last it has given in to the blackmailers.
One very high-toned Melbourne dame haa
a way with her servants that led to shocking
trouble on the evening of a recent big social
function. Her domestic establishment comprises
a cook and laundress and a housemaid, and, owing
to a slight unpleasantness, a new brace of hand-
maidens had arrived but that morning. Lady
Careful instructed the two damsels as to their
duties, introduced the cook and laundress to a
fortnight’s accumulation of soiled linen, which she
desired her to tackle without delay, put out a
pinch of tea and a dozen biscuits for their lunch,
locked up everything—even to the salt as usual,
and informed the paralysed girls that “dinner
would be at 7, and she would be home at 6. Oh !
and when John —my Chinaman —comes, get three
pounds of green peas, and, if he hasn’t any, tell
him to be sure and be back with some before 6.
Then she went out to the function, and the two
damsels incontinently packed up their traps, put
the front-door key under the mat, and cleared
likewise, telling Ah Fat, whom they met at the
gate, that the missus would be back at 5, and
wanted 561 b. of green peas without fail. And
when that lady returned she was met by horrid
silence, broken by the unintelligible, but obviously
insulting, remarks of a vegetable John, who was
seated on a pile of dirty linen in the wash-house,
eyeing an immense quantity of peas and swearing
freely in Joss language.
“ J.D.” tells some solid truths
The publication ol the Employers’ Union manifesto on
the eve of the Victorian election really amounted to a
challenge to the democracy; and, having in view the
trimming of Peacock and the associations of Irvine, the
Labor Party made a tactical blunder in refusing to accept
the challenge. Labor should have put up at least 50
candidates to fight the straight-out issue between clean
democracy and the lame old muddlers of both the old
parties. With the fiscal question removed from State
politics, the chances of “ holding the balance of power
departed from the Labor Party for ever The Labor men
are bound to be forced into Opposition, whether the
puerile Peacockians or the insincere Irvineites are in
power. In not seeking to make that Opposition as strong,
numerically, as their last man and last dollar would have
made it, the Labor Party “ fell in.”
Under the remarkable management of
recent years the Victorian railways are putting up
a record for ridiculous happenings. The latest
happened at Tallarook, where somebody forgot to
connect the engine and the Yea passenger train,
consequently when the whistle sounded the engine
went off by itself. The shouts and language of
the stationmaster were unheard; the signalman
didn’t notice, and the driver himself didn’t notice
till he had sprinted six miles. Then he came
back for his train, and the passengers expressed
their opinions frankly. Another recent happening
was the episode of a guard who, finding his train
stopped through the signal being against lnm,
went and altered the signal himself. Then his
train went on rejoicing, and only escaped bumping
into another train by the act of Providence.
Probably the nearest approach to human
happiness is the feeling which occurs in the
average woman’s breast when she realises that her
figure has achieved an enviable degree of perfec-
tion And the credit for having aroused much of
this joyful emotion must be shared between the
inventor of the P.D. Corset and the Australian
representative thereof, the genial Mr. Borsdorff,
whose efforts have been so successful in bringing
the Australian public under the benign influence
of the charmful P.D.*
Revolution
IN
Cycle Tyre
Construction.
The illustration herewith depicts a section
of our new Roadster
y&
:
;
m
.
H
i
■V
if
BE
In
glg§f|
VULCANISED
MB
Showing actual size, shape and thickness of Rubber
on the wearing tread. These tyres—which are vulcanised
under a hydraulic pressure of 1200 lbs. to the sq. inch, render-
ing parting of Rubber and Fabric an impossibility— absolutely
outclass all other tyres for Appearance, Resiliency
and Durability.
We hold
the sole patent rights of this process, so that no other tyre manufacturers
can make tyres of this description.
Beware of Imitations!
None genuine unless Cover and Tube are
embossed with this ....
Also the word “Vulcanised” embossed
on Rubber Cover.
Trade
Mark.
No increase in price for New Tyre.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus., Ltd.
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane and Christchurch.


Be on the Look Out!
'Don't take Imitations
of O&DEhC’S
Cigarettes /_
There are plenty about t
What we mean is ,
Gently but Firmly
insist on ha,vin^
OGDEN’S
and no other!
T
-TKESr*;
I
\\
We present Gratis and Postage Paid a Handsome Cloth-bound ALBUM, made specially to contain Photographs, as packed with our GUINEA
GOLD CIGARETTES, to anyone sending us 100 of these pictures. We issue now the most extraordinary and unique range of Photos, ever given
to the Public.
The subjects have been collected with great difficulty, and represent a Gallery of extreme interest and of great educational value.
The Free Presentation will only last for a short period, but now and after the closing of the Gratis Distribution these Albums can be obtained
from any Tobacconist, or from us direct (Post Free) for Is. 6d.
OGDEN S, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
The way they do obituaries in London
Times :
HENRY RODOLPH de ANYERS-WILLIS, born
27th March, 1834, died 13th August, 1902, was
the eldest son of Daniel Willis, of Halshead, Lan-
cashire, Esquire, and of Georgiana Amelia, daughter
of Sir William Feilden, Barb., of Feniscowles, in the
same County.
He was educated at Sandhurst, where he won his
Commission, entering the Army in 1852. He retired
when a Captain in the 92nd Gordon Highlanders
in 1865.
He married in 1862 Alice, daughter of the Rev.
Robert Hornby, M.A., of Lythwood-hall, Salop, and
succeeded his father in 1873-
Mr. Willis was Lord of the Manor of Whiston, upon
thfe Council of Rossall, and on the Alt Commission,
Chairman of the Prescot Highway Board, a Member
of the Rainhill County Asylum Board, a Justice of
the Peace, and Deputy Lieutenant of the County.
He was three times offered the Shrievalty. Mr.
Willis had two daughters, the eldest of whom,
Georgiana, was married to H. A. L. Vernon, Esquire,
eldest son of H. Vernon, Esquire, of Hilton-park,
Staffordshire, and the youngest, Cecilia, to James
Binney, Esquire, of Pampisford-hall, Cambridge.
He is succeeded by his son Richard Atherton de
An.vers, educated at Eton and Christchurch, in the
15th Hussars, now in India.
Thus does the mighty British dead take his hyphen
with him even to the tomb.
Premier Seddon has by no means aban-
doned his pet project—to federate Maoriland and
Fiji. Quite recently two emissaries from Fiji
conferred at Wellington with acting-Premier
Ward on the subject. They left subsequently for
England, where they are to interview Chamber-
lain. Seddon has never quite got over his un-
successful attempt to tinker with the Common-
wealth Act through the Colonial Office, and he is
bent on setting up an opposition Commonwealth,
if he can," in the South Pacific. There is no real
interest in the question in Maoriland itself.
Federation with Fiji would probably mean the
introduction of some half-dozen Fijian chiefs into
M.L. Parliament. These, added to the Maori
members, would make it possible to form a Brown
or ex-Cannibal Party, which might easily hold the
balance of power some day, and insist on the
Treasurer being tatooed before it would support
him.
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES : Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Onlv one address : 110 WILLIAM-
ST.', cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
Cable trams will stop at door. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hair work sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
*" am
i
TheGANZ
Electric Apparatus
are built right.
Let us give you some
evidence of their
superiority.
Ganz Direct Current Alr*Propellar. SOLE AGENT 3 :
The Austral fltis gngineeriny (So., [td., South fflelb.
LEARN TO HYPNOTIZES
PROF.
Reader, do you desire to become ft Hypnotist? Ho you want to know bow to utilize the most
powerful and mysterious force of nature? Ho value control over others ? Ho you value the
means of securing friendship, love and personal influence? Bo you value the power to conquer
pain and banish sickness, to reform a misguided friend, to gain business success, to win wealth,
position and happiness? If you do, you must learn to Hypnotize. Why not? No other accom-
plishment is so easily acquired. It can be mastered in a few hours time, without leaving your
home. It costs nothing to find out aLI about it. The greatest Hypnotist of the century has just
issued in book form a large and exhaustive TREATISE, OR INSTRUCTOR IN HYPNOTISM,
covering the whole ground of his Science, and he will send it while the edition lasts, absolutely
FREE TO ALL who apply. The book is profusely illustrated, containing beautiful and artistic
engravings, and shows as never was done before the principles, features, wonders
and uses of this mysterious Science, all in a popular and pleasing style. It tells
you just what Hypnotism is and hat you may accomplish with it. It shows you
how you may sway the minds of others, per orm astounding feats,
and produce amusement by the hour. New and instantaneous
methods. Success absolutely guaranteed. Remember this grand
work costs you nothing. It benefits everybody who reads it. It
places you in touch with the wonder-science of the age. Read
it anyhow. It is absolutely FREE. Apply at once to—
R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
®5
Hi «<
m
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
*X*O DEFY COMFETIXIOW.
WINES rhe Be “ £ ™ ,uiso,dy 01 SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Publications.
N€W SONG
l'K
im
in
At
Mist#
7
/;'
t
$
■f.
Author or
"After the Ball"
Thereu Cone a Tm£ '&nnn the Nuts to M other!
Price 2J*
Allan & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Melbourne
Read the Words
If You Please, Miss, Give Me Heaven.
“ Papa, I’m so sad and lonely,”
Sobbed a tearful little child ;
“ Since dear mamma’s gone to Heaven,
Papa, darling, you’ve not smiled.
I will speak to her and tell her
That we want her to come home;
Just you listen, and I’ll call her
Through the telephone:
Chorus—
“lf you please, Miss, give me Heaven—for my Mamma’s
there;
You can find her with the angels on the golden stair.
She’ll be glad it’s me who’s speaking—call her, won’t you,
please,
For I want to surely tell her we’re so lonely here.”
When the girl received this message,
Coming o’er the telephone,
How her heart thrilled in that moment,
And the wires seemed to moan ;
“ I will answer, just to please her :
‘ Yes, dear heart, I’ll soon come home.’”
“ Kiss me, Mamma, kiss your darling,
Through the telephone.”
Chorus— “ If you please, Miss,” etc.
cs
11
276-278 COLLINS-ST.,
PROP., Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l.i 300 Collins Bt.| Melbourne


RAMEY'S MEDiCATOR '
For the Treatment of Catarrh, Hay Fever,
Bronchitis, Influenza, Catarrhal
Deafness, etc.
Medlcator, with complete treat-
ment, only 101-, post free.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY
228,231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE. .
Biliousness
KNOCKED OUT BY
Chamberlain’s
Stomach and
Liver Tablets
Price, 1/6. Just what you need.
Biliousness is a condition characterised by
a disturbance of the digestive organs. The
stomach is debilitated, the liver torpid, the
bowels constipated. There is a loathing of
food, pains in the bowels, dizziness, coated
tongue and vomiting, first of the undigested
or partially digested food and then of bile.
Take three Chamberlain’s Stomach and
Liver Tablets to begin with and then
one tablet each following day for three or
four days until the bowels become regular.
If one tablet is not enough to cause a free
movement of the bowels, take two; or if one
acts too freely, take only one every other
day. Chamberlain’s Stomach and Liver
Tablets should be taken immediately after
supper. Eat sparingly and of easily digested
food, such as boiled rice and milk toast.
Brink no coffee.
NOTE.—If not able to obtain Chamber-
lain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets locally,
a packaee will be sent, post paid, upon re-
ceipt of 1/6, or six packets for 8/-, by
addressing Chamberlain Medicine Co., 64
Elizabeth Street Sydney. 1 20
Missing Friends.
IF this should meet the eye of John Cos'.ello
Par-wan, late of Bacchus Marsh, write to
*our father at once.
IF WILLIAM BOLTON, formerly MAILDRIVER and
BUTCHER at BREWARRINA, N.S.W., will com-
municate with the Undersigned, he will hear of some-
thing to his advantage. .
JAMES LYNCH, Solicitor,
breyyarrina.
INDIGESTION
means torturing pain, incessant
weariness, wretched days and I
wakeful nights. It means being
“ done up,” “played out,” “ bowled
over,” “ good-for-nothing ” all the day
and every day. It means starved blood,
starved muscles, a starved body and a
starved brain ; in short, it means shattered health
and a broken constitution unless you root it out with- i
out delay. Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup is the national
remedy for indigestion in sixteen countries. Its unrivalled
reputation is backed by thirty-three years’ unbroken success
in curing Indigestion. It has brought hope and health to
countless thousands of half-dead dyspeptics in every
clime. It cured Mr. C. A. Bonnett. It will cure you.
1 Bead his testimony: “ After suffering continuously
from acute indigestion and constipation for two years
my recovery was completely effected in six weeks by Mother Sei gel’s
Syrup. It rapidly broke up the constipation, restored my appetite and
built up my strength. An occasional dose now keeps me in good order.
58, Currie Street, Adelaide.—March 24, 1902.” Subs
less and dangerous.
Substitutes are worth-
-M.OTH E R
■CEL’S
CURATIVE
[V
NO MYSTERY
ABOUT IT
Other than the low figure at
which it is sold, and that is
accounted for by the large
demand created through public
appreciation of the
“LITTLE
NIPPER”
In all respects a remarkable
Camera. Strongly made, hand-
somely finished, excellent Lens,
sizes, the largest being 12s. 6d., but all are equally good and fit for any land of work.
ON SALE BY
The Baker & Rouse Proprietary, Ltd.,
- GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and BRISBANE.
The basis of which is “Montserrat ” Lime-Fruit Juice.
Far Superior to
all otHer Sauces*
■
AGENTS— Elliott Bros. Ltd., J. Connell & Co., D. Mitchell & Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
MOIR’S
BLOATER PASTE.
In Tins about 2 ozs. and 40ZS.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office—9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“ Panic ”: Re Bulletin par (13/9/’O2) about the
recommendation to publish the names of persons and firms
proceeded against upon Unsatisfied Judgment Sum-
monses. I could name scores of supposedly first-class
Melbourne houses which consistently practise the “ de-
layed-pavment ” dodge. For instance, invoice and state-
ment having been rendered, the collector calls at end of
month for the coin. After fumbling over a sheaf of papers,
the accountant says he can find no trace of such an
account, and requests it to be duly supplied. When this
is done it turns out that payment cannot now be made
before the next month-end pay-day, and thus the firm
hangs on to the cash for a month longer. Indeed, if the
creditor appears at all easy-going the chances are that he
will be served the same way next pay-day. In fact, most
Melbourne tradesmen think they’re lucky if they get
payment within three months for goods sold on monthly
terms, and then they have to allow 2J per cent, discount for
“cash.” Evasion of punctual payment, in short, is now
a fine art with many business houses, and such should be
promptly listed as “ Overdue at Lloyd’s.” Big, well-
established suppliers can afford to wait a month or so,
but it’s Sheol to the small stragglers—upon whom, by the
wav, the dodge is principally practised.
* * * •
Buyers of potatoes, turnips, hay, chaff and
fodder generally should take the precaution to either see
their consignments weighed, or have them weighed
before taking delivery from the railway trucks. As a recent
example, a Victorian country storekeeper received
a consignment of potatoes (one of many similar,
for which he accepted the accompanying weigh-bridge
voucher), per rail, weighing, according to the way-bill, 7
tons odd. It being his slack day he filled in time by
weighing the lot himself, when he found the consignment
Bcwt. short. He gob a rebate of 40s. without demur, but
when he thinks of unweighed previous consignments
the potatoes could be fried on his vocabulary. Almost
same day an alleged six-ton consignment of chaff put in its
appearance. Being weighed on the Shire weighbridge,
the consignment was 4cwb. (28s. worth) short. Yet the
Shire weighbridge and the Government railway weighing-
machine tally, pound for pound, and the way-bill is sup-
posed to be based on a railway machine. Another buyer,
in a small way, found 151 b. of down-country soil in a bag
of potatoes, which were selling at Us. per cwt., dirt
weighed in 1 This habit of weighing things, which
started with the potatoes above-mentioned, is spreading
through the district. Said district is so suspicious now
that it would weigh the Governor-General, if he came
along. But what the district really wants to know' is,
how the wholesale-man manages to persuade a Govern-
ment machine to w'eigh 6) tons as. 7 tons when it won’t do
the same trick for the retail-man. The big man seems to
have some way of getting at the implement of which his
small brother knows nothing.
* * * •
A new way to pay old debts :
“ Do as I tell you,” said the solicitor, and the theatrical
syndicate, shaking on its uppers, left. Went to the Aus-
tralia bar, where the money-lender, as expected, came at
’em. Then the senior partner of the syndicate (the one
who looked like a decayed Hamlet) began to do as he had
been told. Took it to be impertinent and unmannerly on
Mr. Discount’s part to mention the matter in a public
bar. Upon which, as expected, Mr. Discount discharged
his mind, in the presence of many witnesses. Three days
later he went to see his solicitor and handed over a blue
paper.
“Hum! Suit of Deadbroke and partner, eh?” ‘You
did vilify, slander and abuse ? ’ Suppose you did ? ”
“ Told ’em exactly what I thought, and threatened to
wipe the floor with the whole push.”
“Any witnesses?”
“ Half-a-hundred.”
“ How much do they owe you ? ”
“ It’s not that at all.”
“ But it is that —a hundred ? ”
“Thereabouts.”
“ Then write it off and cry quits.”
“What?”
“ I’ll try to arrange it that way.”
“ I’ll see you farther than I promised to see them first.”
“ You’ll see as I see by-and-bye.” When they got to
facts, he did. It would cost £2OO to defend, and probably
12 hours in the witness-box, and no more chance of getting
back Discount’s money than of recovering Discount’s
reputation. His lawyer went to see the syndicate’s
lawyer, and, when they had fenced a while about public
scandal and adequate apology, figures were reached.
“ But they want to get away, you see.”
“ Well, you arrange the passages, too, and we’ll settle.”
Discount’s lawyer and Discount had another tough
quarter of an hour together, and then the legal man
went down the street with a sheaf of old stamped papers
and one slip fresh blotted. Three days later Deadbroke
and partner, with all their co., went down the harbor, and
if their band didn’t play “ God Save the Law ” it was
because they were all too busy at the bar.
» * * •
A Yankee insurance-agent, who had been in
Melbourne only a fortnight, gave a few people a lesson in
“ how to do it.” He was going down Bourke-street at .
half-past eight to start work when a bicycle and a cart
collided. The usual crowd gathered, and there was the
usual excitement and gathering up of wrecked citizens.
The Yankee joined the crowd and started making remarks
about insurance, its blessings, etc. He stated, address-
ing the air generally, that “if that thar chap had got
killed without his life being insured, his family would
now be starving.” In the end the American led half-a-
dozen of the crowd to the nearest pub. and scooped in
their policies.
• * • *
Vic. M.L.A. Reay explains to Melb. Herald
how Australian honey failed to prosper in London—
allegedly owing to its flavor of eucalyptus. Said condi-
ment has dropped (been run) down to £l4 a ton whole-
sale, and, as £2B barely pays the producer, the supply
naturally grows beautifully less. And this fall is allegedly
all owing to the eucalyptus flavor. Yet the honey
can’t be obtained retail under £ll2 a ton, and it sells
retail at that, despite the flavor. The ring which controls
the English market could doubtless explain—if it wanted
to.
* * * •
An ingenious youngster finding himself, t’other
day, out of a permanent job, took it into his head to go
round to all offices without a boy (in Adelaide) and col-
lect any letters to be delivered. Charged Id. a letter or
6d. a dozen, and made more a week out of it than he ever
did as an office-boy. But that ingenious boy will get into
trouble when the postal authorities get on his trail.
* • • *
“Eller”: Was taken down t’other day by my
grocer. I was wanting to pick a row with him, and
going into the shop, I saw a notice : “ Please don’t ask
for credit. By so doing you only offend.” I asked for
credit in an offensive tone by way of beginning the dis-
turbance, and got it (the credit, not the dis-
turbance). Then I prowled round uneasily, wonder-
ing how to commence the shindy. Saw another
notice : “No cheques cashed.” I pulled out a cheque for
£2 I had just got from Jones,, and felt that I would be
able to start a first-class shindy. Grocer cashed the
cheque. Went away disgusted.
* * * •
Re the agent curse: At the recent M.P. and A.
(Wagga, N.S.W.) show it was estimated that, on the first
day—the business day—there were 700 agents on the
ground—mostly “ wool hawks” and machinery drummers.
The drought is causing uneasiness in wool and machinery
circles, consequently the competition.
» * * *
Plenty of Australians have the idea that there
js no spot on the globe to compare with this continent
for wheat-growing, and that its harvest is the one really
big thing in the line ; wherefore, they want to know why
this “ great natural industry” of ours isn’t good enough
without bothering about manufactures. Well, this is
what this great natural industry amounts to after all
these years of special striving. For every bag grown by
“ the Wheat State ” (S. Australia), the one Canadian State
of Manitoba last year grew 4£, and this year much more.
Even that little territorial flyspeck, Great Britain, wnicn
could be dropped on two or three Australian sheep-
walks, grows three bags to Australia’s two ; and France
(with only two-thirds of the area of N.S.W. alone) grows
nine bags to Australia’s one. South Australia, m even a
good season, grows less than Belgium, which is a little
bigger than an Australian horse-paddock, and about half
as much as Persia, which even the educated Australian
only thinks of vaguely as a place where Ahasuerus used
to live. Bulgaria grows more wheat than N.S.W. and
S.A. put together; so does Roumania ; so do various
other odd corners of which no one hears at this end of the
earth.
» » * *
The “Greater Sydney” scheme would stand
more chance of early adoption if the ordinary ratepayer
was aware of what advanced municipal management can
do to keep down rates. For instance, Nottingham
(England) owns lands and draws rents. It runs munici-
pal trams, and municipal gas, and municipal electric
light, and municipal water schemes. These not only all
pay, but show clear profits as follows :
Water £5,000
Electricity 6,500
Bridge Estate 5,500
Tramways 12,000
Gas 27,000
Rents, Markets 44,000
£lOO,OOO
These profits saved the people of Nottingham last year a
rate of over 2s. in the &.
* * * *
There has been quite an international row over
the statement of Professor Evans, of Canterbury (M.L.)
College, that he could not very well give his orders
for chemicals and chemical apparatus to English
firms, because their goods were so much inferior to
those of German make. But anybody with prac-
tical experience can endorse the statements of the
M.L. professor. By a careful attention to business detail,
by the perfection of technical education, and, above all,
b.vher radically Protectionist tariff, Germany has attracted
to herself the best share of the European drug and
chemical trade. German tariff regulations refuse patent
rights for any chemical preparation unless it is made
within German borders. As a result, the Teuton has al-
most a monopoly of the manufacture of aniline dyes,
lanoline, bi-palatinoids, and many other big lines. Study
a wholesale drug list and notice how often the goods are
“ made in Germany.”
* * * •
There might once have been chances of a fine
haul of Boulder gold if the highwayman had owned the
enterprise of the old school. But these chances have
been growing less and less ; and now, to whittle them
down still further, a new gold-car has been put on the
Westralian railways. To the protection of iron bars is
added a connection with the pneumatic brake gear, so
that any monkeying with the doors of the safe stops the
train. What happens then depends upon several things
that can’t be so easily provided for beforehand.
* * * *
Sandow’s gospel of Physical Culture includes a
nice little puff for a patent food, which is said to be
supplied to the German Army. One guesses that the
German Army doesn’t pay the Australian price of 3s. 6d.
per tin for this mixture.
Councillor O’Murphy, after having three
walks over for his seat in the Musselville Shire
Council, at last found himself opposed by a strong
man ; so he started on an electioneering campaign.
Meeting two ratepayers he started to canvass.
“ Jack,” he said to the carpenter, “ I’ll be wanting
a nice house built in the town, somewhere about
next month, Jack. Vote for me and you’ll get
the job, Jack.” But Jack wouldn’t promise. To
the other, a pig-dealer, he said, “Mick, I’ll be
wantin’ a few pigs somewhere about nixt month,
Mick. Remember the church, Mick, and the
pigs, Mick, and give me your vote, mind ye.”
Going further he met the undertaker coming from
a funeral, seated on the hearse, so he nailed
him. “ Alf, me bhoy ! ” “Yes, Mister O’Murphy,
what’s up ? ” “ Alf, me bhoy,” said the Councillor,
“I’m growin’ an old man now, Alf, an’ I haven’t
long to live! I’ll be wantin’ a nice, big coffin,
Alf, and the hearse and the two mournin’ coaches
and expinsive trimmin’s, Alf, so don’t forgit to
give me yer vote next Thursday, come ilection-
day ! ” But Alf wasn’t taking any ; he had pro-
mised to bury the other man. Then the candi-
date waxed wrath : “Not wan nail will ye put in
me coffin, Alf, if ye don’t vote for yer old Coun-
cillor ——But the hearse had moved on ! When
the poll was declared, the new man was elected
by a big majority.


A wealth of glorious hair is woman s
crowning glory. Wherever throughout the
Commonwealth the sex are crowned in glory to a
conspicuous degree whether it be a curly crown, a
majestic coil, or a mass of silken tresses “ a hang-
ing down their backs,” it may be taken for granted
that Holland’s marvellous hair restorer has
played no small part in the production thereof.
Melb. sassiety ladies, when asked whether they
are going to Europe for another trip, will laugh-
ingly point to their rejuvenated tresses and reply,
“ Can’t you see I’ve been to Holland ! ”*
The Permanent Trustee Co. of
N.S. Wales Limited.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT.
THE Fifteenth ORDINARY GENERAL
MEETING of the Members will be held in
the Royal Exchange on FRIDAY, 17th OCTO-
BER, 1902, at Noon.
BUSINESS.
To receive Reports and Balance Sheet to 30th
September, 1902.
To elect one Director in place of Hon. F. T.
Humphery, M.L.C., who retires (under
Clause 77 of the Articles of Association)
and who offers himself for re-election.
To elect two Auditors in lieu of W. Clarke and
Fredk. Phillips, Esqrs., who retire, but are
eligible for, and seek, re-election.
To consider any other business, of which due
notice shall have been given in accordance
with the Articles of Association.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD,
3rd October, 1902. Manager.
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2,
The Latest and Greatest Dramatic Novelty,
SHERLOCK HOLMES.
Mr. CUYLER HASTINCS as SHERLOCK HOLMES,
Supported by Mr. Williamson’s
SPECIALLY ORGANISED DRAHATIC COMPANY.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Prices as Usual.
IVOLITHEAT R E, S Y D N E Y.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Me. Haery Rickards.
THE SENSATION OF THE CIVILISED WORLD,
THE MIGHTY SANDOW.
Magnificent Success of the MONTROSE COMPANY.
Mr & Mrs. TOM NAWN & CO. WILTON BROS.
Re-appearance of Mr. TOD CALLAWAY.
A. G. SPRY, WALKER & MAY, LES. WARTON,
THE BIOSCOPE.
Dress Circle & Orchestra Stalls, 4s. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Family
Circle, until 7.40, 2s. ; after 7.40, Is. No Booking Fees.
ICKARDB’ NEW O PERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.m.
PAUL CINQUEVALLI.
Mr. & Mrs. SIDNEY DREW.
SAM HOLDSWORTH. HARRIS & WALTERS.
Professor MACCANN. RAY JONES.
MARK ANTHONY.
Prices —35., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. Early Doors and Booked
Seats 6d. Extra. Plan at Allan’s.
HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee Mr. Bland Holt. '
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hendy. Treas., Julius Grant.
Return of the People’s Favorite, MAGGIE MOORE.
FRIDAY, OCT. 10, LAST NIGHT of
STRUCK OIL and SSiaggr 8
SATURDAY, OCT. 11, First Production in Australia of
the Domestic Drama in 4 Acts, PEGGY PETERS.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Under the Direction of Mr. Frank Thornton.
Farewell Appearances of Mr. Frank Thornton and his
Selected London Comedy Co.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10, LAST NIGHT of
A LITTLE RAY OF SUNSHINE,
SATURDAY, OCT. 11, Brief Revival of the Queen of
Laugh-Makers, CHARLEY’S AUNT.
PRICES—Dress Circle and Orchestra Stalls, ss. ; Stalls,
3s. ; Amphitheatre, One Shilling. Box Plan at Allan’s.
ER"MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELB6URNe7
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
SATURDAY, OCT. 11, Return of Mr. J. C. Williamson’s
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE TOREADOR.
The Reigning Attraction of the Gaiety Theatre, London,
interpreted by full strength of the Co., including Mr.
REGINALD ROBERTS (tenor from principal London
Theatre), and Miss LULU EVANS (from Savoy Theatre,
London), who will make their first appearance.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
»IJOU THEATRE,
* Lessee and Manager
Business Manager
MELBOURNE.
William F. Hawtrey.
Leonard Davis.
THE HAWTREY COMEDY CO. in a Grand Revival of the
Phenomenal and Fascinating Production,
A MESSAGE FROM MARS.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. Matinee every Wednesday.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’ and The Grand.
R. BENTLEY YOUNG, Representative.
YC E U NI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of BLAND HOLT’S Australian
Melodrama,
RIPIN6 TO WIN. ®
SAT. NEXT, OCT. 11, that Brilliant Budget of Sparkling
Melodramatic Excitations, A MILLION OF MONEY.
POPULAR PRICES—3s„ 25., Is. 1 Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
TTERI ON THEATRE, SYDN E Y.
C R
SOLE LESSEE
Manager
3rd
. Mr. JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
. Mr. Frank Weathersby.
WEEK 3rd
Mrs.
GOLDSTEIN
GOLDSTEIN
GOLDSTEIN
GOLDSTEIN
GOLDSTEIN
JOHN F.
SHERIDAN’S
NEW COMEDY
CREATION,
Surpassing hi’s World-
Famous “ Widow O’Brien.”
Mrs.
GOLDSTEIN
COLDSTEIN
GOLDSTEIN
GOLDSTEIN
COLDSTEIN
MRS.
60LPSTEIN
BRIGHT, TUNEFUL, EXHILARATING.
PRETTY, STYLISH, RECHERCHE COSTUMES.
PRETTY, SHAPELY, LIVELY GIRLS.
NEW
SONGS
/ Mr. CHARLES KENNINGHAM \
\ Mr. CHARLES KENNINGHAM /
NEW
SONGS
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY at 2.30.
PRICES —35.. 25.. Is. 6d., & Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
AL AC E THEATRE, S YD N E Y.
Lessees .. .. Messrs. LEE and RIAL.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 7.45. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, a Musical Comedy,
in 2 Acts, entitled,
THE MESSENGER BOY.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Nicholson and 00.
“Nymsie”: In connection with the Upper
King (Vic.) turquoise deposits, said to exist on five Crown
leases, held by Gascoigne and others of Benalla. A
syndicate is being formed with a capital of £lOOO, in 80
shares. The leases cover 170 acres, and for a long time
back pars, have been appearing in the local press drawing
attention to the great possibilities of this turquoise field.
So far, however, little has been done beyond sending
specially-picked samples to Germany for expert opinion,
and publishing glowing reports of the results. But good
turquoise is extremely rare in the Upper King regions—
the quality of the veins being, on the whole, mottled and
poor—and dabblers in this sort of stock will burn their
fingers. Present writer, 20 years ago, submitted to city
experts some of the most promising samples from “ the
hills," and was informed that turquoise gems, even of
the first water, were unsaleable. Only the Germans
attach any value to turquoise, and the mines of the
Vaterland can always oversupply the decreasing demand.
* « • *
A projected flotation is the new Armagh, near
Oreswick (Vic.). Rich gold got in vicinity in early days,
and syndicator’s party lately dropped on jumbled stone,
worth, on their statements, 2to 12oz. Party “loamed”
125 ft., and discovered what is claimed to be true fissure
lode, averaging nothing under 2oz. Yet syndicate is
philanthropically going to take the public in on bedrock
terms ! Syndicates always are magnanimous when there
is a glorious uncertainty ahead of the pick. Still, New
Armagh may be an exception to the rule. Creswick
reefs, as far as exploited, have proved to be of the Joseph’s
coat variety.
• • • •
Co-incident with a satisfactory report of heavy
rainfall ensuring copious supplies of water, of most
effective work in removing overburden, and the immediate
prospect of large tin production, Briseis shares have had
a heavy fall. London is responsible for the slump,
extensive selling orders coming from that quarter. It is
evident that a big depreciation in the value of tin is
anticipated. There has been a steady decline in the
quotations within the past few days, and the statistical
position is not at all reassuring. Stocks have been rapidly
accumulating, indicating supply in excess of demand.
Recent advices from London have pointed to the proba-
bility of tin receding in common with other metals. A
few months ago the common cable message was, “ Submit
proved tin properties” ; latterly it has been “ tin proper-
ties not wanted.” Good offers were made for several
N.S. W. shows but owners’ greed precluded business. They
will now proceed to kick themselves.
* * * *
North Lyell (Tas.): Something wrong, but
what it is only managers and directors know. Old policy
of secrecy being maintained. No information as to
results of blast-furnace smelting. Shares wobbling in
value —up to-day and down to-morrow. Are “insiders”
realising, or are they playing the secret game to induce
“ outsiders ” to part with their interests ? A Mel-
bourne paper says that “the co.’s affairs are rapidly
approaching a very interesting stage.” It must be
very interesting indeed to stockholders who know
what a magnificent mine this really is, to be kept in
doubt as to whether there is any chance of a successful
outcome. Australia has had some notable examples of
good mines being wrecked by wrongful methods of
management, but there has been none so conspicuous as
N. Lyell. It may have been through ignorance or ill
luck, but, whichever it is, it is a solid fact that from its
inception the co. never by any chance did the right
thing. It has spent hundreds of thousands of pounds
and disposed of enormous quantities of high grade ore,
and is now, as it has been for years, in financial
embarrassment. From the start Mt. Lyell has been
a marvel of successful management ; N. Lyell has
been its antithesis. Mt. Lyell scheme of working
was thought out in every detail, and there has
not been occasion to depart from it in any particular.
North Lyell originators had the fatuous notion that they
had something bigger and better than the parent mine,
and that they could improve on its methods. They car-
ried out extensive harbor works and bought large steam-
ships, for which they never had, and were never likely to
have, any use; they built an unnecessary railway, and
committed themselves to many other extravagances.
Throughout, it has been a policy of building up and pull-
ing down. There has been a multitude of counsellors,
and no wisdom—only persistent intermeddling and mud-
dling. The end of it all will be absorption by Mt. Lyell,
which will mean salvation to both.
• • * •
Heemskirk (Tas.) tin deposits seem likely to
attract speculators once more. Apart from the rich
surface shows recently found, the prospects deeper down
are not to be sneezed at. A 720 ton crushing lately yielded
12 tons, 18cwt. 221 b. of concentrates, containing' from 60
to 69 per cent, metallic tin. Govt, expert considers it
good enough to put money into. What will he say,
though, when tin declines to £6O or £7O per ton ?
* « • •
A correspondent: “In its last half-year the
New Brothers Home No. 1 00. spent £4061 to remove
65,000 yds. of overburden. As a product out of which
to extract divs., overburden must be pronounced a
ghastly failure. This tin co. didn’t get any tin during
six months’ work. Instead, it sluiced £lOOO worth of
overdraft out of the Bank of Australasia’s tail-race. The
mining manager’s wail can be made into a tabloid by
quoting his report that he averaged 3£ sluice-heads of
water daily for six months—not enough to keep a vege-
table John out of Judge Molesworth’s clutches. Compare
3.) sluice-heads a day with Briseis co.’s 130 and Ringa-
rooma co.’s 40 heads. After years and years of calls and
graft the New Bros. Home No. 1 co.’s manager says there
are about 62,500 cubic yds. of drift uncovered, of which
he could sluice 20,000 or 30,000 yds., if he had water.
The directors say they hope shortly to be able to advise
shareholders which out of three water-getting schemes
should be adopted. It’s a hard matter to advise about.
What about selling out to the Briseis Tin co. and getting
rid of the Bank of Australasia ? ”
• • * *
Tributors in the You Hing mine, Ballarat East,
have recently found lumps of gold weighing 130 and 70oz.
at a depth of nearly 600 ft. The mine is on the
“indicator” belt, and is in the immediate vicinity of
where some big nuggets were found in shallow alluvial.
The occurrence of these masses of gold in vughs in the
lode is accounted for by percolation of gold in solution
and precipitation in an iron base, but the theory set up
that the lode and alluvial nuggets were formed in the
same way seems hardly tenable, for the reason that the
two classes of gold are distinct in form, one being in
sponge-like aggregations and the other in solid lumps.
Ex-Premier Peacock, the Yictorian kooka-
burra, is dissatisfied with his name, and would, it
is said, like to follow the precedent that turns
Cockburn into Coburn, and Hancock into Hanko,
but to change himself into Pekoe would probably
make matters worse than they are.
At Lismore (N.S.W.) this month opened
with unusual vigor. Flags flew, public holiday
was proclaimed, and the cookies ceased from
looking for the rain-cloud that refuses«to burst,
while the Mayoress pulled the Commonwealth
flag off the made-in-Germany figure of a warrior,
which is to commemorate for evermore the local
men who died for Beit and Co. There were
speeches, principally by the P.M., who, among
other things, said this :
They represented us in the Empire’s great fight for
British freedom as opposed to provincial tyranny. They
represented us in the Empire’s great fight for the great
principle that representation should accompany taxation,
as opposed to the Boer policy of large bribes received for
monopolies, and large private fortunes filched from the
pockets of the unrepresented taxpayers. (Applause).
Nine-tenths of the people of the British Empire
are taxed without any representation at all, yet
the average Briton talks the above slush in perfect
good faith. He knows no better. Yet even Lis-
more and its woefully ignorant orator know some-
thing. They put their bronze soldier with his
back to a church and facing two pubs., so that he
might represent Drink and Ungodliness.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
At Poverty Point.
Manager Musgrove, while pointing out the difficulties
surrounding the idea of exhibiting Melba in grand opera
in Australia, does not give a straight-out denial to the
newspaper assertions that she is to figure in a few of
her favorite roles before leaving. The probability is that
Melba will show in fancy scenes from “Lucia,” “La
Boheme,” and others. Anyhow, Nellie Melba doubtless
wants to impress the natives, and she holds that she can
only be seen at her best in grand opera with all the
appliances and appurtenances to boot. An intelligent
and discriminating management will doubtless have
more definite ideas about the notion when the best of the
concert season’s profits have been gathered in.
Wondrous sentence from Melb. Argus : “ She was over-
whelmed with floral tributes. Madame Melba handed up
a beautiful white spray, and, as far as the onlooker could
judge, there was no more interested spectator of Miss
Stewart’s delineation of one who in her own time and
her own sphere was a queen amongst her fellows, than
that one who in our time and in another sphere occupies
a like position.”
Prof. Marshall-Hall publicly gushes over Melba
“Your living presence has compelled this immature,
partially cultivated, somewhat unintellectual city to
dimly feel for a moment the presence of that occult
divine power which in higher states of civilisation is
openly worshipped. . . . You come to us like some fairy
princess of legend from the far romantic land of our
dreams and hopes, redolent with the perfumes of
mysterious flowers shaken from the folds of your gown—
yet quivering with the frenzy of distant multitudes,
stirred by your art, fraught with fascination and strange
power.” And the diva heroically swallowed it all 1
The general impression with regard to Melba was that
she would be a sort of vocal Sandow, with a huge voice,
and a habit of giving it the fullest lip at all times.
Instead, her audiences heard a comparatively reserved
Melba, content so long as she could please their ears with
the most delicate vocal art. It is wrong to imagine that
Melba ever had pretensions to he a true “dramatic”
soprano. She is of the soft, lyric variety, like Dolores,
and like Amy Castles, as she will be if she goes on the
right way ; and it isn’t at all necessary for a soprano to
have a fifty-horse-power “dramatic” voice to be the
greatest opera singer in the world. The Italians have
two schools of opera, the lyric and the dramatic, and in
recent years the former has been the most prolific in
great artists. When Santley came to Australia lots of
people were bitterly disappointed because he didn’t lift
the roofs off numerous town-halls with his voice, and
they failed to patronise him for some time, until he
practically forced himself upon their approval bv the
melodic richness of his unforced singing. Foli could lift
a roof when he sang, but, unfortunately, he couldn’t sing
as the other man did.
Admirers of Dolores can be enthusiastic over the some-
what richer voice and more imposing figure of the re-
splendent Melba without changing their opinion that
Dolores is an unrivalled artist on her own platform.
Melba may achieve a finer—only a little finer—effect in
certain operatic numbers which offer the greatest oppor-
tunity for voices of the rarest soprano quality. In fact,
she does achieve it, and that’s why she is a Celebrity. But
Dolores, with a voice almost as beautiful in its polished
smoothness of tone, is a more fully equipped artist than
the operatic prima-donna. Given one grain more of gold
in two or three of her notes Dolores would—well, perhaps,
circumstances would not have allowed her to become such
a variously perfected singer as she now is.
“ Vox ” : Some of the critics say that Melba’s singing is
entirely lacking in emotional power. Luckily, there are
various tastes to be pleased. Singing with conviction
and emotional power was Jenny Lind’s strong point, and
a famous musical critic wrote of her that she rendered
“ I know that my Redeemer liveth ” in a way that would
have converted a Jew. Yet Greville, the diarist, who
had heard all the great singers of the Lind period, records
that he considered several of them superior to Jenny.
~Sandow’s most interesting performance in Melbourne
was his last Saturday matinee, when the stalls and d.c.
were filled mainly by schoolboys, who had been brought
along by their masters to get an object lesson in physical
development. The boys shrieked their approval, and
every boy in the house made up his mind to become a
ball of muscle before the Xmas holidays.
Mrs. Howie (otherwise “Princess” Te Rangi Pai) the
handsome Maori contralto, whom R. S. Smythe introduced
to Australia last time he had Rev. Charles Clarke in tow,
gave a concert at the Queen’s Hall, London, in August,’
and got encouraging notices for her “ genuine voice and
fine presence.” One trustworthy critic suggested that if
Mrs. Howie would travel on her title and make a speciality
of her Maori songs, she ought to do well. The concert
she engineered at the Queen’s Hall was mostly
Australasian. Miss Florence Schmidt took first place as
a recognised concert singer of undeniable culture, where-
as Miss Amy Simpson, from Sydney, was advised to put
more work into her good soprano voice before aspiring to
platform honors. Ernest Toy, of Melbourne, was spoken
of as a violinist above the ordinary, and Arthur Edwards
and Henry Stockwell were described as “ tenors of whom
more should be heard.” This last line is something of a
warning to Australian ambition. Stockwell, the
Maorilander who threw up his business billet and went to
Melbourne as a professional vocalist, has had about 10 years
experience in England, Two or three years ago he came
out here again under engagement to Amy Sherwin, and
returned to Europe with her. Now the sweet, throaty
Stockwell has the melancholy satisfaction of learning
from a London paper that more should be heard of him
in the misty future.
“ Ciro ” : Wise men of Thb Bulletin, disputing over
versatility in actors, have overlooked the most remark-
able of all—Dot Boucicault. He is the one actor known
to Australia who can absolutely disguise himself beyond
recognition and do it in all sorts of parts. One night I
went to “ The Pickpocket” and sat without a programme
through a whole act, wondering over the identity of the
marvellous actor who was giving such a delightful sketch
of the old waiter. Queries from surrounding fellow-
members of the audience showed them to he as mystified
as myself, and eventually I was impelled to borrow a pro-
gramme from a distant stranger. Then I discovered that
I had all the time been admiring my old friend Boucy.
Every year an open-air performance of Planquette’s
“ Cloches de Corneville” takes place at the Normandy
village where the scene of the opera is laid. Hundreds of
villagers are drilled for the chorus, and the legendary
bells of Corneville ring Miser Gaspard into a state of
lunacy. This annual show promises to rival the Oberam-
magau Passion Play as an attraction for tourists.
A big theatrical landmark disappears in the London
Aquarium, bought by the Methodists as a “Church
House ” for £330,000. Even this sum, half as much again
as the best previous offer, only gives the shareholders a
trifle over their capital back. For years past the
"Aquarium” has been simply a variety show. The
manager states that the best business they ever did was
with the Boxing Kangaroo, which was bought for £6OO,
and for some time brought in about that figure every
week.
Once Barnum had his biggest elephant ploughing, on
his Bridgefoot farm, in sight of the passing trains. This
got into every newspaper of the United States. Anxious
agriculturists asked the boss showman : “ Does it pay ? ”
“ Yes,” he said.
“ Cockaigne ” : Irving’s pathos is coming in. Scott, in
the Antiquary, makes the droll mistake of describing a
gorgeous sunset in the east. Irving is to visit Australia
—his sun sets in the east too. The demolition of the
Lyceum seems to set the seal on Irving’s downfall. Since
1871 Irving has scarcely acted at any other West End
temple, save a few times at Drury Lane, or elsewhere, for
benefits. He is a superstitious man, and wouldn’t even
change his make-up chair while it had three legs left, or
have it mended. His successful London career began at
the St. James’s, 1866.
Item from a N.E. Vic. paper : “ Herr Pagel, who claims
to be the strongest man in the world, will visit the Show,
where he will carry a draught horse on two ladders 18 feet
off the ground, and will toss a live lion above his head.”
The lion’s remarks when he came down should have been
worth listening to.
“ Melb.” : Apropos the benefit to Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis.
She displays some of her photos, as Hamlet. Perhaps she
might have revived this with advantage, but it is a toss-
up whether “ Hamlet” would draw a big house or none,
and she can’t afford to toss up. Her Hamlet, at the
Bijou, was remarkably thoughtful. Differing apparently
from all the other lady Hamlets, she had the audacity to
stick on a moustache and imperial. The other Melbourne
lady Hamlets have been Miss Cleveland, Rose Evans, and
Louise Pomeroy, with perhaps Mrs. Waller in the long
ago, at the Queen’s. Rignold’s mother was highly
esteemed in Birmingham as Hamlet and Romeo. I fancy
she also played lago. At any rate, several ladies have.
A Mrs. Wells, very early in the 19th century, acted
Falstaff in London. Charlotte Cushman’s Romeo was
perhaps as good as any man’s, but she was mannish.
Some readers of this may have seen Miss Marriott’s excel-
lent Hamlet. A German deep thinker (and hard drinker)
says Hamlet was a disguised woman !
“T.D.”: “Bunkum" bunks up the wrong tree when
he suggests that Sandow probably gets his huge chest
expansion by inhaling successive great gulps of air, hold-
ing one as he brings the other on top of it. That, dis-
tinctly, is not Sandow’s method. He takes in one huge
inhalation, and that is all. It is a big inhalation, and if
he were inhaling through the keyhole of an otherwise air-
tight cathedral he would probably empty the sacred
edifice.
“ T.D." : The cleverest stage “ buttons ” seen in Mel-
bourne for years is young Reg. Carey in “ Sherlock
Holmes.” There was never a mere human seven-and-six
messenger half as slick as Holmes’s. Young Carey is son
of the well-known mummer.
The unreality of thev “ Sherlock Holmes” drama arises
from the too obvious obviousness of the fact that it
is devised from the end backwards. The writer knows
beforehand what the deduction will be, and his facts are
afterwards fixed up to lead to the deduction. It is like
prophesying now that the Franco-German war is going to
break out 32 years ago. There is no help for this. The
detective drama can’t be built any other way, unless
Conan Doyle commits a real murder, and lets himself be
pursued by his own detective, and somebody else writes
the story after 0. Doyle is hanged. The only thing is to
prevent the wheels being too conspicuous.
“Melb.”: The Sunday night sermons at the Gaiety
Theatre, by Pastors Edgar, Tregear, and Cole, are liber-
ally punctuated with applause. A visiting clergyman,
who tried the place, was flabbergasted at first, but after-
wards decided that it was n good thing. But when people
learn to applaud in church they will learn to hiss also.
And they may hiss at the collection-plate.
Not generally known that Frank Thornton has appeared
in Gilbert and Sullivan opera in Australia. He played
the Lord Chancellor in “ lolanthe,” John Wellington
Wells in “The Sorcerer," and the Judge in “Trial by
Jury,” under the Firm’s management 16 years ago.
A belated autobiograph}' of James Anderson is in course
of preparation, and the editor begs “ the loan of any
letters, reminiscences or photographs of the old tragedian
which his friends may have retained.” The late James
Anderson—a terribly tragic mummer when roused—
strutted his hour upon the Australian stage in the dim
long ago. Anybody who can kindly lend some remin-
iscences, &c., of that bygone high-faluter is desired to
send them along to Wi E. Adams, care of the Walter
Scott Publishing Co., Felling-on-Tyne, England.
“J.A.0.”: Again the misuse of the term “ vibrato ’’
for “ tremolo ” crops up (B. 20/9/’O2). Your correspondent
states that many French singers cultivate the “ tremolo.”
That is incorrect. Nowhere is it more deprecated than
among French artists ; in fact, they have bestowed upon
it the derisive epithet of “ the bleat.” It is true that it
is an inherent defect in the bulk of untrained French
vocalists, just as in the average English amateur we find
the voice strangled in the throat. Yet no one would
affirm that throatiness in singing is cultivated in England.
There is very little doubt that these defects are collaterally
connected with peculiarities in the spoken languages;
Spaniards, for instance, usually sing with a very open
tone.
An incident in the first act of “ Sherlock Holmes" sets
one thinking of Snazelle and the “ Bill Adams ” yarn. It
happens when Sid Prince is burgling Miss Faulkner’s safe
under the direction of Larrabee, who casually observes
that the phenomenal detective has been laid on
to recover the “ papers ” they are expecting to find in the
safe. At the mention of the almighty name Sid Prince
(Edmund Gwenn plays the part with excessive low
comedy and cockney emphasis) drops his burgling tools
and shouts, “Is Sherlock ’Olmes in this ? ” Then he goes
on to explain that if ’Olmes is in it, the one man on earth
who can put things right is Professor Moriarty, ’cos the
Professor wants any job that’ll give ’im a chance to get
at ’Olmes. In just the same tone of voice that actor
Gwenn adopts Snazelle used to tell his Waterloo story.
“ When the Dook sees Bonyparty a-comin’ over the ’ill,
’e says to Nelson, ‘ Oan you take the job on 1 ’ ‘ No,’ sez
Nelson, ‘ ’tain’t in my line. There’s only one man wot
can take this ’ere job on, and that’s Bill Adams.’ ‘ Well,
o’ course,’ sez Nosey, ‘ wot a hold juggins I must ’a’ bin
not to ’a’ thought of Bill 1 ’ ”
Obit. Darcy Stanfield, well-known to Sydney audiences
as a sketch artist and comedian. While showing at the
London Oxford, a few months ago, he caught a severe
chill which proved fatal. His wife, Eva Clements, con-
tinues the battle for self and children under the name of
Myra Stanfield.
R. S. Smythe has got in tow an eloquent Yankee
Baptist preacher and orator named J. R. Ward (now in
Maoriland), who will visit Australia on tour if he can get
further leave from his ’Murkan duties.
Fitzgerald Bros, have lost a valuable performer by the
death of Mahomet, the talking horse, who quitted this
life at Numurkah (Vic.). Mahomet is alleged to have
earned £lOO a week at the London halls prior to his
arrival here.
The Friedman Case.
Thk “law points” in brief of the “Fried-
man case” —so much discussed in N.S.W. :
1. The foreman of the jury claimed, in interviews
with the newspapers, that the jury in the jury-
room examined the goods bought by the accused
Friedman from Price, who stole them from De la
Rue and Co., and came to the conclusion from a
special knowledge of their value that they were
worth very much more than was represented in
court, and that therefore Friedman, in buying
them for a low price, must have acted mala fide.
The Judge was not in possession of this evidence,
the foreman claims. Therein that foreman
shows his lack of knowledge of the legal
position. The jury had no right to be in
possession of that “evidence” (whether it was
correct or incorrect) seeing that the accused had
no chance of hearing it and (possibly) producing
facts in rebuttal. If a juryman has special
knowledge of facts in a case he must go into the
witness box, take the oath, and submit to cross-
examination. The accused cannot be rightly
convicted on facts, or fancied facts, disclosed only
in the jury room. Vide Best on Evidence (ease
R, v. Rosser) in which it was ruled
If a gentleman is in trade he must be sworn as a
witness. That general knowledge which any man can
bring to the subject may be used without; but if it
depends on any knowledge of the trade the gentleman
must be sworn.
The jurymen on their own showing arrived at an
opinion as to the value of the goods bought by
Friedman, not on the evidence in court, but on
the conclusions of some of their number in the
jury-room. 2. The jury having brought in a ver-
dict of guilty, it was no insult to them for that
verdict to be cancelled. The British legal system
demands an absolute agreement between the
Judge and all the jury as to a man’s guilty A
reasonable doubt on the part of one juryman
makes conviction impossible; and similarly a
reasonable doubt on the part of the Judge.
Stephen, in his “Criminal Law of England,”
says:—
If the judge sums up for a conviction, and the jury
convict, they share the resposibility with him and con-
firm his views by their verdict; and the same may be
said if they follow his suggestion in acquitting. If they
acquit when he suggests conviction, he is spared from
what is always a painful task—that of determining oh the
sentence to be passed. If they convict when he suggests
an acquittal, he can, if he is decidedly of opinion that the
prisoner is innocent, in practically all cases secure a
pardon. I think he ought to have a legal right to direct
a new trial.
Richard Harris, K.C., author of “Hints on Ad-
vocacy ” and other standard works, writes :
No man can lose his life against the conscience of the
Judge who tries him.
Nor should he lose his liberty. Stripped of all
party feeling and of all cant, B. R. Wise’s action
in releasing Friedman was legal (the power being
given to him by the Constitution) and was right
(it being a principle of our law that if one member
of the tribunal trying a man on a criminal charge
has a reasonable doubt as to his guilt, that man
must go free).


TWO EMINE
THIS NEW AND WONDERFUL
ELECTRO-MEDICAL SYSTEM.
When men are weak and practically disabled in life, they should avoid disaster which may end in Death. New Vigor, new L, f®’
Strength, and unlimited Physical Power can be given by adopting for a short period the Electro-Medical Treatment or oju
uses of Electricity and Medicine. People are cured daily by this system who were otherwise classed as *
REMARKS.
WE have from time to time demonstrated, as leading physiologists and pathologists in the
the fact that the permanent healing of grievous health-destroying diseases lies m the possession of a pert** *n
ledge of the causation and phenomena concerning them, and the accurate methods of treatmg them Any practi
tioner can prescribe for a complaint and treat it with that professional care em oot lec in _ rlnctors receiving
practitioner cannot heal or cure a disease. Honestly they endeavour, and unsuccessfully fail. Everywhere men an women ry, j ot ’ anneal to
little benefit. Millions of people suffer from chronic nerve and vital functional disorders, and never- c uie 0 , ? n ’\ t l ca ,. treatment the
the right sources. What the average medical man CANNOT CURE WITH HIS SET FORMULAS and obsolete foims
SPECIALIST, with his new ideas and modes of treatment, assisted by special knowledge, can. This is pi oven
BY THOUSANDS OF UNIMPEACHABLE TESTIMONIALS
received by THE SPECIALISTS of the FREEMAN and WALLACE INSTITUTE, in cases undertaken (and which they guarantee to cure) of nerve
and muscular disorders, stomach affections, etc. , .. , . mmlifipd bv
Their new methods of nerve and physical strength restoration, by the employment of Electro-1 her apeu ic agen s, is c testifv to great
singular success. Patients OCCUPYING THE HIGHEST POSITIONS in the world of Art and Letters, Sport and Commerce tojreat
cures. Electricity is Life, if judiciously applied by means of an ELECTRIC “ INVIGORATOR” reeons rue ive> reime Je , primiyr ATISM
HYSTERIA, INSOMNIA, PALPITATION, SCIATICA, EPILEPSY, BRAIN-FAG, EXHAUSTED'VITAL RHEUMATISM
LUMBAGO, ABDOMINAL WEAKNESS, PILES, ST. VITUS’ DANCE, or CHRONIC or FUNCTIONAL NERVE DISORDERS, y
and permanently cured.
A DISTINGUISHED
PATRON.
MR. PHILIP NEWBURY, the
famous English robust tenor, so
intimately known and so popu-
larly appreciated by all Australian lovers
of exquisitely superb vocalisation, prior
to an extended visit to the leading musi-
cal centres of the OLD WORLD, in a
letter to the SPECIALISTS, says :
“A few weeks’ course of your
Electro-Medical Treatment, during
which, £ wore one of your famous
Nerve - liestoring Electric ‘ IN-
VI GO 11A TO It S, ’ has benefited me
greatly. For years I suffered from
Uric Acid in the Flood, with Rheu-
matic tendencies, tint, thanks to
your Electric ‘IN VIGOR ATORf
I am now completely cured .
Fours faithfully,
Graceful as this eulogy is, it is none
the less sincere, expressed by one whose
attainments are generally beloved
throughout Australasia. It verifies the
fact that in the cure of nerve diseases,
electricity judiciously applied by a skilled
SPECIALIST is unequalled as an im-
mediate remedy.
MR. PHILIP NEWBURY, the Distinguished English Tenor.
AN EXQUISITE
EULOGY.
CIIGNOR CARLO DANI, the sweet
Italian operatic tenor, the vocal star
of the ROYAL ITALIAN
OPERA COMPANY, recently suffered
from inertia of the nerve system, and
great lassitude. For a few weeks he
wore one of the Electric “ INVIGOR-
ATORS ” manufactured for the SPECI-
ALISTS. In a graceful tribute written
to their skill he says :
“I have much pleasure in in-
for mini / you that oiviny to the great
lassitude I have experienced here,
due, no doubt, to sudden climatic
changes, I have been induced to try
one of your Electric ‘ Invigorators,’
from which I have obtained great
benefit to my nervous and muscular
systems.
Yours cordially,
Such a testimony from such an eminent
source proves the value and efficacy of
the only superior Electric “ Invigorator ”
sold in the States, the full particulars of
which are below appended. Be careful
when purchasing an Electric “BELT”
that you secure one certified by local
electricians.
If you suffer from Insomnia, Functional Heart Trouble, Epilepsy, Hysteria, Weakness, Kidney Dis-
order, Aching Back, Rheumatism, Uric Acid in Blood, Sciatica or Neuralgia, an Electric Invigorator,
with reconstructive remedies, will soon put you right. Electricity goes right to the Spot, lor many wea
nesses peculiar to women the “ INVIGORATOR ” is an infallible cure.
All attestants may be interviewed. The SPECIALISTS’ treatment is sure and effective. Improvement is rapid and certain. . .. ... rp .f rpne . t heninsr the muscular
You need not fear but that you WILL RECOVER if you try a course of Electro-Medication. It acts at once on the nervous centres, animating the “f 1 ?® 8 ’ healthv fnd strene AS
system, equalising the circulation, improving the blood-stream. It clears the brain, strengthens and regulates the beating of the heart, and makes a 'hTOCALTRIALthat' he cannot
NATURE INTENDED THEM TO BE. A man is no longer feeble under this treatment; he REGAINS ALL HIS LOST STRENGTH, and finds no PHYSICAL 1 RIAL that c
conquer. It is the finest medium in the world to physical peace and domestic harmony.
The Prices of these wonderful curative “INVIGORATORS ” are as follow:
Copper Plate, £1 ; Silver Plate, £1 10s; Solid Silver, £3 ; Solid Cold, £lO (2oz. 18ct. Cold).
The Specialists hold Certificates of Efficacy unpossessed by others, and give private tests to anyone who cares to call. Two leading Sydney electricians
assert they are “ electrically perfect, and their currents are continuous as used for medical purposes.
These “INVIGORATORS” are the only Electric “Belts” sold in Australia which possess true non-conducting vulcanite insulation, without which no
Electric “Belt ” can give a continuous electric current useful for medical purposes. Any electrician will verify this fact.
The Specialists’ Fees : Advice & Medicine, ONE POUND only.
CREDENTIALS.
NINE' Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration of the Physician-in
Chief by the Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia,
England and America, open for public inspection at the Institute. Late Homoeopathic
Hospital, Melbourne, and British Imperial Army Medical Staff.
Sir DOMINIC CORRIGAN, Bart., Physician to the late Queen, speaking of the
Physician-in-Chief, says: —“ I entertain a high opinion of Dr. Wallace in regard to his
professional qualifications.”
“ CLINICAL EXPERIENCES.”
CONTAINING 550 pages of medical literature, 150 full and half-page medical illustra-
tions, fully explains, in the chapter devoted to Electricity, the general laws governing
the application of electricity to the human frame. An exhaustive exposition of the systems
employed in the doctrine of Electro-Medication is given, showing the benefits to be derived
from a judicious use of the Electric Bath, Battery, or Belt. The uses of these are
individually explained. This valuable medical work is posted free to any address on
receipt of ONE SHILLING IN STAMPS.
FREEMAN # WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAI
and SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director Electro-Medical Department. Medicines packed Free from Observation and sent to all parts of Australia.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., L.M., Physician-in-Chief. Letters treated with Professional Secrecy and promptly replied to.


The double-barrelled accusation made by
Sydney police against one Duggan led to the legal
absurdity of bail and no bail at the same time. On
the charge of vagrancy Duggan was allowed bail
(self in £2O and one surety in £20); but on the
charge of having half-murdered Quong Tart, and
stolen that pleasant gentleman’s cash, the beak
peremptorily refused to allow any bail. Mr.
Duggan is to consider himself, therefore, out and
in at the same time. The question that he has to
decide is whether his in-ness or his out-ness pre-
dominates.
The Bulletin Reciters
By Eighty (80) Bulletin Bards. With Illustrations by “ Hop,” N. Lindsay,
A. J. ischer, F. Leist, D. H. Souter, and H. McCrae. In handsome cloth,
decorated. Price, 55.; postage, 4d.
A 30-year-old man, attempting to assault
a little girl in the grounds of a Melb. suburban
state-school, the other afternoon, was dragged
awav from his prey by a lady teacher who held
him oaptive till a constable arrived. The wretched
lunatic seemed incapable of an effort to escape.
The disease that made him reckless of the
consequences of his offence rendered him power-
less to struggle against them. But the Law will
endeavor to strengthen him for his next assault
by putting him to hard labor. In its treatment
of such incurables the Law is shockingly
humorous.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMiOXJS re medy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient
and a Complete Cure is certain. ° ° J ’
BEWARE OB' COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERT DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT. AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr, W. G. Hearn e.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful -cure your medicine has effeoted in
tny case. About three years ago I began to oough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I'hficanie very weak and “troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest,- and great.quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had Been treated .by a doctor, who pronounced
toy ease to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had*been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but .1 commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
Which aecept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until 1 used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
Mid “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMIibLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Ilearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
(mail bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold, i
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering froiy
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria,
»Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OP VOICE. CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llonwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vlo.
"Mr. Hearne.—
"Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very had coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost, her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that’kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.’’
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. 1 started talcing the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at onee. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so mueh better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and hack without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than 1 have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. -MORTIMER.’
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows: —“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles qiore of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
, “ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it lias done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most,distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions ami patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. —I remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“ WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Tears’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to he without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethauga, Victoria
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER..
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchitic
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was sa
distressing that for nights in succession l had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other t reatment'had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting v< ry milch worse, and.at the
time 1 obtained your medicine J was confined, to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome'relief
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment]
until I became, as I am now, quite well.,—Yourssincerely]
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes “After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments-without benefit, I was induced to tryllearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three- bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of IBs:i 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of if. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 139 J, lie states:—“[
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma."
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, B Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562,
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Fast to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
The”SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
■ ILS,O:L ’ Tjimitoci. WORKS: DiVPTO. Lalse Illawarra (56 MILES FROM SYDNEY)
SMELTERS
AND
REFINERS
OF
SILVER
LEAD
BULLION
ptpw-
■'■n-SY
m
m
MAKERS OF
S. Co, of Australia
AND
‘ ILLAWARRA
BRANDS OF
SOFT LEAD,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
W. L. HOYT, Manager.
Assay Offices, Gener tl Offices, Store and Sulphuric Chamber
Highest Price paid for GOLD, SILVER, LEAD ancl COPPER ORES, CrAUIDE SLAG-.J, and JEWELLERS’ SWEEP, &c.
For all information regarding Rates, apply to HEAD OFFICE, DAPTO.
A..
ZE3. Rudder & 00., 40 Ritt Gtreet, Sydney, G-eneral A.gent3.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
“‘Benger*s Food*
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritiw, and digestible.
Benger’s Fo.od is sold by Chemists, &c., Evervwb'*-**
Extracts from Private
Letters .
“My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would he difficult
t > find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Benger’s
Food’ everywhere.”
“ If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


“ Yarram ” : We were “ outside ” schnap-
pering, and I happened to remark to the ex-pilot
that Simpson, of the Betsy Jane, was an idiotic
young fellow to hold a master-mariner’s certificate.
“Yes,” assented the old chap, “Bill is the two
ends an’ the bight of a full-blown idiot; but he
got his ‘ ticket ’ through me. I coached him, an’
Eut him through with fiyin’ colors. Had him in
ands for just a week, an’ then sent him to town
for his ticket. Told him the fellow as issues the
tickets would be expectin’ of him. * Your name
is Simpson,’ said the chap, ‘and you’re after your
certificate.’ Then he asked Bill just the special
questions I’d coached him in, and handed over the
ticket; and Bill got a boat straight-away. Navi-
gation be blowed ! What navigatin’ does it want
to hump a bit of timber or a few tons of coal along
this bit of coast? Certainly, there is a collishun
now and again ! but that’s nothin’—as accidents
will happen.”
“Revilo ” : For years past the Chows on
the West Coast of the South Island (M.L.) have
been in the habit of disinterring the remains of their
deceased countrymen, and packing the skeletons
off to China. Was in a town where the disinterment
was going on. The stench was terrific and per-
vaded the air for far around. When the Chows
have unearthed their worm-eaten relatives, they
wash their hands in carbolic water, open the
coffin, and remove any flesh that may remain upon
the skeleton. The bones are then smoked in a
riddle, and afterwards held in a wire-sieve over a
big fire. Every Chow who contributes to the cost
of the disinterment and shipment gets a ticket
with the amount stated thereon, and this is said
to be negotiable upon the pilgrim’s return to
China. A dozen Chinamen have been at this
work for nearly 12 months, and the remains of
about 500 countrymen will be shipped. Who was
it said that a dead Chow was better than a live
lion ?
NAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion V If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue .will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told you* case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CUKE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but 1 WILL. Because
others haverfailed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/lsd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : ELLIOTT BKOS., Sydney. Purchasers 6liould
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
gieen label on <ach box. (Regd. copyright).
MNnua
ENNESS
,CURED
Absolutely Conquered'ln 20 Days.
IgirSee my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free,
W. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S.. Eng.,
68 Russell St., Melbourne.
BUSHMAN WATCH
oun faithful
tTmeheeper
Charles Read t-C°
42 0 GEORGE 5T SYDNEY
m
1
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchase*
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
AEELIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEO-
TIIIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Bells give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances tor BOTH SEXUii,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electrio Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
TOOTH
POWDER
IS THE BEST DENTAL
PRESERVATIVE.
Has the Largest Sale of any Dentifrice.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &c.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
a EVERY MAN 13
SUFFERING from DEBILITY and WEAKNESS should
send for a valuable Pamphlet explaining- how nil
Nervous and Organic Derangements may be success-
fully treated withoutstomach medication. The method
is easy and pleasant, and will effect a perfect and per-
manent cure. Sent in a plain sealed envelope free of
charge. E. NORTON, 50 &60 Cijancert Lane, London,
Eng. Over 30, years’ continuous success. g
Free for Asking.
WRITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong- and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to Proprietor, Box 135, G.P.0., Adelaide, S.A.
LOVELY COLORS
BRILLIANT
GLOSS.
REJECT
IMITATIONS.
<7
wm.
#
I
LLS
EL
!,!!!!!,
ERFECT
lii±:
. LONDON. S.E
%
/A&£
See that Aspinall’s name
and Medals are stamped
on every Tin.
MANUFACTURED BY
ASPINALL’S ENAMEL, Ltd., NEW CROSS,
LONDON, ENG.
I>r. Clarkson’s Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour,
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
ST.
will faring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful.
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £L
OALLOEWEITE- OWL R C " T T E DRUG STORE,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS. SYDNEY.
WISDOM l
SAVE YOUR
MONEY.
V#
KUO where to
to
SAVE YOUR
TIME.
PROSPERITY
CAN’T LAST FOR EVER WITHOUT THE
PUBLIC’S CONFIDENCE AND APPRECIATION,
EVIDENCE OF WHICH IS DAILY RE-
CEIVED IN THE FORM OF TESTI-
MONIALS AND GRATEFUL LETTERS
BY
Herb RfISSMUSSEW
THE WORLD-FAMED DANISH
HERBALIST & BOTANIST,
PROPRIETOR OF THE
Mt: 1
ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
REGISTERED.
A FEW WORDS TO THE UNINITIATED.
PERSONAL AND PERTINENT. —Those who have Dot met Herr Rassmussen, and
who have not given his Alfaline Herbal Remedies a trial, may find it beneficial to become
acquainted with the good work which he has done in the interest of suffering humanity for
the last twenty years.
ALONG BACK IN THE BEGINNING OF THE EIGHTIES
Ilerr Ilassnuissen introduced his non-world-famed Alfaline Herbal Remedies to the Australian public at 547 Gtorge
Street, Svdncy. Australia was then flooded with American importations and proprietary remedies, manufactured
by doubtful persons with assumed names and fictitious addresses, who took the people’s money without
responsibility, and very often without giving them fair value for same.
HERR RASSMUSSEN BROUGHT ABOUT A REVOLUTION
by straightforward and fair dealing's with the public, offering to stake his reputation and future if his remedies
were not as efficacious as he claimed them to_be, accepting all responsibility, and willing to abide by the people’s
verdict. ”” _
THE HAPPY RESULT IS KNOWN TO EVERYONE.
Over twenty years have passed away, hundreds of remedies have come and gone-many of them were forced on
the public in numerous designing ways—thousands of pounds spent on advertising same with the assistance of the
world’s greatest experts in laying traps for the unwary; but the public would have none of them, and they have
disappeared as suddenly as a flash of lightnifig.
“THE ALFALINE REMEDIES EXCELL ALL OTHERS,”
and are well known to be more popular to-day than they have ever been. They have not only obtained, but
have retained the goodwill and confidence of the Australian public, and have become famous throughout the
civilized world. The first Sydney Office not only yet exists, but offices have been opened up for their sale at
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Wellington, N.Z., and in West Australia at Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie and
Boulder City', with Agencies throughout the world.
LET THE PUBLIC JUDGE FROM THE FOLLOWING:—
The Alfaline Remedies have held their own for over twenty years in Australia, and Herr Rassmussen has
been awarded the Parisian Acadamies’ Gold Medal and Diploma of Honour ; Gold Medal, Sydney, and several Silver
Medals; honourably mentioned in almost every newspaper in Australia; received many thousands of unsolicited
testimonials—every one of the originals open for inspection at his Offices. The Alfaline Remedies have never been
known to fail to euro in a single instance.
ARE THEY NOT WORTH A TRIAL?
if they are, why not try them today ? why leave it till to-morrow and, perhaps, lose your chance and time? No
order so small that it, is not welcome ; no order so large that it cannot bo executed at once. If you first wish
evidence of the efficacy of the Alfaline Remedies.
SEND FOR HIS FREE BOOK,
and read what the experienced have, to say, and what the Australian newspapers have to say— the double distilled
extracts from the Press speak for themselves.
A FEW OF THE ALFALINE REMEDIES:
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS never fail to cure Nervous Diseases, Weak Spine,
Troubled Brain, Fatigued Nerves, Despondency, Poor Memory, Debility, Want of Confidence,
restore Vital Strength, and preserve the system against being affected by age more than any
known remedy. Boxes, 6/- and 12/- ; course, 23/6 posted.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS are a permanent cure for all Chronic, Blood and Skin
Diseases, no matter how caused, or of how long standing—Blotches, Blood Disorders, Gravel,
Diseases of the Urinary Organs, etc., etc. Boxes, 6/- and 12/- ; courses, 23/6 posted.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS completely cure Wasting Diseases in Women
—Anremia, Whites, Poverty of Blood, Sallow Complexion, Dull Eyes, and act as a perfect
Blood and Nerve Tonic. Boxes, 6/- and 12/- ; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE RHEUMATIC PILLS cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica, Lumbago, Ravages
from Rheumatic Fever, Chalky Formation in the Joints. Boxes, 3/-, 6/-, and 12/- ; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS remove all Stomach Troubles, Costive-
ness, Indigestion, Flatulence, Heartburn, Wind, Biliousness and Headache. Boxes, 1/-.
GENERAL ALFALINE REMEDIES.
Alfaline Pile Powders cure internal and external Piles, boxes 3/- and 6/- ; Varicocele
Powders, boxes 6/-; Blood Capsules or Globulus, 6/-; Fat Reducing Powders, which remove
Corpulency, 6/- ; Hair Restorer, 6/- ; Corn Cure, 1/-; Ointment, 1/- ; Eucalyptus Oil and
Jujubes, boxes 1/- ; Flesh-Producing Powders, 6/- ; Complexion Beautifiers remove Pimples
and Freckles, 3/- and 6/-; Alfaline Embrocation removes all sorts of Muscular Pains, Stiff
Joints—good for Footballers, bottles 1/6 posted ; Worm Tablets, 1/-; Headache Tablets,
Instant Cure, 1/- ; Soluble Quinine Pessaries, 5/- ; Electric Belts, Suspenders, Bandages,
Enemas, Glass Syriugps, etc. Circulars with all particulars sent Free.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALITY.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has made special arrangements for attending
personally to his Clients living in the Country, and letters will receive
most careful personal attention. Advice or information sent free and
unobserved. Patrons may rely on skilful, honest and confidential treatment.
His Remedies will be forwarded to sufferers, packed in plain cover and
unobserved, together with Advice and Directions. Letters should be addressed
to Herr Rassmussen’s full name—HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN—and
Registered if containing Money, and may be sent to any of
Herr Rassmussen’s Addresses:
Head Office; 547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
ALSO AT
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke Street
BRISBANE—3O9 Queen Street
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney Street
N. 2.—91 Lambton Quay, Wellington
W.A.—PERTH—4BI Hay Street
KALGOORLIE—Hannan Street
BOULDER CITY-Piesse Street
PREMANTLE-117 High Street
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of Alfaline Remedies


presents that mill please
*OU cannot possibly be disappointed by visit"
ing us, so come here whether you have
a definite idea of what you want or not.
We offer you the biggest variety and the most
reasonable prices it is possible to offer.
If you have not seen our new Catalogue,
ask us for one. If you live out of town
send us your name and address on a post-
card and you will get one by return mail.
No. F 4708.
Silver-plated
and Pearl
Bread Fork
11s 6d.
No. F3462.—Fine Leather, and Silver-
Mounted Pocket Book, 10s 6cL
F3939.—Gent.’s Silver Hair
Brush, 21s.
No. 374 A.—6 Silver-plated Tea Spoons
and Tongs, 10s 6d.
No. 363. —A 1 Silver-plated Sugar Tongs.
3s 6d.
10. 253.—501 id Silver Match Box, 10s 6d.
No. E 9356.
Silver
Glove
Buttoner,
Is 6d.
4/2 GEORGE sl SYDney -'
No. 20.—Gent.’s Opal
Ring, 18ct. gold,
£i 10s.
No. E 8031.— Tasteful 9ct Gold Bangle, £l l7s. 6d.
No. B4B9o.— Dia-
mond Ruby and
18ct. Gold Ring.
No. M.—l6ct. Gold and Opal Ply Brooch, £llss.
No. 120.—15 ct. Gold, Diamond and Ruby
Brooch, £2 7s 6d.
15ct. Gold Heavy Band Bracelet, £4 4s. Smaller, £3.
No. E6659.—9ct. Gold Engraved Bracelet, £ll7s 6d.
i
No. 193.—Links, 9ct.
Gold, 15s 6d. 150.
Gold, £llos. Silver,
4s 6d.
No. 197.—Links, 9ct. Gold,
£1 ss. 15cfc. Gold, £2 ss.
Silver, 6s 6d.
No. 121A.—15ct. Gold Anchor Brooch,
£ll2s 6d.
r
No. E6251.—9ct. Gold Bird and Heart
Brooch, 12s 6d.
No. E7707.—9ct. Gold,
Pearl and Turquoise
Lace Brooch, £1 Is.
Pine Diamond Marquise
Ring-, £4O.
O'
as
No. 241.
Diamond - set
Soar! Pin,
£3 17s 6d.
No. 240.
15ct. Gold
and Pearl
Pin, £1 ss.
No. F6l2B.—Silver-plated Toast
Rack, 12s 6d.
£
es
&
No. F3s62.—Silver Cabinet Photo.
Frame, 16s 6d.
No. E 6444. Engraved
A 1 Silver-plated Napkin
_ Ring, 5s 6d.
No. EB499.—Puree and Card Case,
4 Silver Corners and Lock, £1 Is.
No. 359. —Silver-plated Breakfast
Cruet, 13s 6d.
No. E7o72.—Silver
and Ivory Rattle,
13s 6d.
Fine Opal and 15ct.
Gold Heart, £5 5s
Smaller, 755.
Silver-plated
Spectacle
Case, 14s 6d.
ANY PERSON SUFFERING
FROM
Constipation, Derangements of the Stomach, Liver and Kidneys,
Influenza, Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago, and Uric Acid Troubles,
OA.3XT HAVE A PERFECT REMEDY*.
COLONEL E. LAWFORD WRITES
“Pegu Club, Rangoon, India.
“ October 6th, 1901.
“I have made the acquaintance of your
excellent Kutnovv’s Powder, through Mr.
Guthrie, of the Medical Hall here, and I
consider it most efficacious.
“ Yours faithfully,
“E. LAWFORD,
“Colonel Commanding Rangoon.”
A CAMBRIDGE LADY WRITES :
“Anglesey Abbey Lodge, Cambridge,
“January 6th, 1902.
Sirs, I have no objection to your using
my name in saying my parlormaid was
suffering from Indigestion, and I gave her
your Kutnow’s Powder sent to me which at
once relieved her, and she says did her much
good, so that now I am sending for another
bottle of the same to keep by me, for any
member of my family's use. Enclosed Postal
Older, as requested, to include postage.
“ Faithfully yours,
“CATHERINE CLARK.”
IHE PRIMARY CAUSE of Gout, Rheumatism, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Gravel, Diseases of the Bladder, Diabetes, Renal Colic,
Smarting and Scalding Sensations, is entirely due to excessive uric acid
in the system, which, if not checked and regulated, means the develop-
ment of the most painful and distressing maladies. Most of these
troubles can be traced to disorders of digestion, assimilation, secretion,
excretion, and elimination. If our food be properly digested and the
adipose matter promptly eliminated, there would be by far fewer cases of
Rheumatism and kindred ailments.
KUTROW’S POWDER not only prevents the possibility of
uiic acid poison, but, if already developing in the system, will eradicate
the trouble. The European Springs have wonderful cleansing proper-
ties, still they have a drastic and lowering effect on the system gene-
rally.
Rot so Kutnow’s Powder. On the contrary, while retaining its
marvellous remedial properties, it strengthens and fortifies the system,
and restores all the great organs of the body to healthy activity.
BEWARE OF FRAUDULENT IMITATIONS.
KUTROW S POWDER can be obtained in capsuled bottles
from all Chemists and Medicine Vendors. See that the Registered
Trade Mark, “ Hirschensprung ” (or Deer Leap), and the autograph
facsimile signature, “S. KUTROW and Co. (Ld.),” are on the label
and carton. ORLY SUCH ERSURE GERUIRERESS. IRSIST
OR “KUTROW’S,” ARD FIRMLY REFUSE ARY SUBSTI-
TUTES; THEY ARE WORTHLESS ARD OFTER INJURIOUS.
THE REV. F. G. SCRIVENER
WRITES :
“Lakenheath Vicarage, Brandon, Suffolk,
“January 27th, 1902.
“ Sirs,—Having myself been greatly bene-
fited by the use of Kutnow’s Powder, I am
recommending a trial to a parishioner.
About a year ago 1 suffered much from acute
rheumatism. After taking doses of your
Powder, about four a week for two months
whenever I felt pain, X found the Powder
most efficacious, and have not suffered from
rheumatism since. The Powder seems to
have the power of expelling the poison from
the system. You may make any use you
like of this letter, or my former one.—l am,
yours,
“(Rev.) F. G. SCRIVENER.”
NURSE ROBERTSON WRITES:
“ 6> The Parade, Bounces Road,
“ Lower Edmonton.
‘‘ I am pleased to be able to tell you that
I have derived great benefit from the use of
Kutnow’s Powder, both for indigestion,
biliousness and rheumatism, and am delighted
to have found so agreeable and efficacious a
medicine.
“(Nurse) F. ROBERTSON, L.O.S.
Proprietors:
i. KUTNOW & CO.,
LTD., 41 FARRBNCDON RD., LONDON, E.C* Proprietors in U.S.A.:
Kutnow Bros., 853 Broadway, New York.
-■ 3—9


m I*®
..',7
i • * tj
■_■ *vis<
r*Zr£ieq
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark ” on band inside, as above.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s (Ltd.)
CIRCULAR-POINTED PENS
Seven Prize Medals Awarded.
Neither scratch nor
spurt, the points
being rounded by a
new process.
Attention is also
drawn to their new
“CRADUATED
SERIES OF
n
IFa\UI
PENS.” Each pattern being made in jour degrees of flexibility and Points.
Ask your storekeeper for an Assorted Sample Box of either series. Works : BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND
arces
G§en^§
R
Coronation Spoon
A Special Treasure to British
People in Far-off Lands.
Size
of Spoons :
4% & 6%
In Solid Silver or Gold. Price from 8/-,
and manufactured by Pearce and Sons,
dersfield, England, by whom it is being
the World.
post free. Designed
, Silversmiths, Hud-
sent to all parts of
Wp Jm)
historic Gift for 1902.
If you have an 1837 Souvenir of Queen
Victoria’s Coronation you know its
value, and will be anxious to secure
early the choicest Historic Souvenir
of KlfcG EDWARD YII. This
xjT~ =-TT*!- ! f ~ registered emblematic spoon is a
new departure in souvenirs: a rare combination of_ the
beautiful, valuable, historic, and useful. No marriage
presents will be complete without a set of these emblematic
spoons. A gift for every Child of the Empire born in
bliis Coronation Year. No Souvenir could be more highly
appreciated. Send for illustrations of Sizes and Prices.
The Historic Bift of 1908.
T Description -The Bust of the King, surmounted by His Crown
the reverse bearing the Rose, Thistle, and Shamrock—Great Britain and
Ireland : these support the Royal Monogram, E.R. VII., 1902, and are up-
held by Iris-like leaves, each representing one of our Great Possessions;
the leaves uniting form the Empire Stem. The Roots of this Empire
Plant run round the Royal Arms, the Emblem of our Constitution,
right into the Heart of the Peoples.
ffepeGial Attention and Gape given
Colonial and Foreign Orders.
to
Colonials and those Abroad will affect a real Saving of Money in
purchasing direct from Messrs. Pkarck & Sons. Send for their
Pictorial Price List of Solid Silver Novelties and High-Class
Presents.
PEARCE & SORS 9 Silversmiths , &c.
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
Ss
Explorations in Civilisation.
BEING THE LETTERS OF AN AUSTRALIAN IN
EXILE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Rails came in from all points of the compass, and
crossed over, and dived under our line, and went
away in all directions, and came back again. The
train ran through half-a-dozen miles of terraces
and squalid streets, and thousands of chimney-
pots, and crossed a muddy stream showing the
flat, black beaches of ooze that belong to low tide.
There were barges and warehouses sitting down
in the mud, and riverside factories up to their
knees in slime; and a yellow fog, that smelt
like bad coffee, covered us. The train stopped,
and the porters cried, “ London Bridge.”
So the miracles that brought me over 12,000
miles of sea had really happened, and this was
London Bridge ! It seemed such a weight of
endeavor for such a light result.
Out of London Bridge again, and tremblingly—
haltingly—to Cannon-street, the train feeling its
way through the yellow mephitic fog. Once or
twice the dense chokiness lifted, and then I saw in
the wilderness of houses we passed that in Lon-
don the usual style of measurement suffers a revo-
lution. Elsewhere 3ft. is a yard, here a yard is a
foot square, and the majority of the houses have
no yards at all.
The train started out of Cannon-street again,
and backed and filled through the murk for half
an hour—then it stopped suddenly, and fog-choked
voices croaked “ Charing Cross !”
A porter gripped my bag, led me through the
obscurity to a cab, and accepted the coppers I
gave him as one to the manner born.
My ignorance had brought me back to Charing
Cross, although I wanted to land in the city, but
this mistake being explained, I took a hansom,
and voyaged into the Strand. The outlook was
all very gloomy—a fog of Egyptian darkness in
places; in others a miasma only as thick as star-
light. I saw a cross in the station-yard, pure,
white from the impurity of pigeon-droppings.
The tower of St. Martin-in-the-fields whitened
also with guano—all the ugly lines of fog-
blackened, Architecture gradually disappear-
ing under white manure. That is what anti-
quity is—mostly manure. There was a street as
wide as the narrowest parts of George-street,
Sydney ; a thousand ’busses tied and tangled in
the fog—their drivers becoming blastiferous, and
not thankful, when the liftings of the fog came ;
there were hundreds of pigeons swooping down on
the horse-manure, standing in the centre of the
traffic—dodging horse hoofs and wheels with side-
way flutterings, but never really taking fright, for
they had that perfect hunger which castelh out
fear. For the 150,000 dockers or so are not the «ml y
living things to whom fog brings starvation
There are the pigeons, and those starving gulls (,
the Thames whose crops are so empty in mid-
winter that men standing on the embankment,
and holding bread in one hand, the gu ll
with the other.
Along the Strand, this dirty street reverberant
to the hoof : beats of thousands of horses, the foot-
ways were lined at intervals with hawkers of
various things for a penny, and their hands and
faces were of the same flayed appearance and the
same tint of chilblain red, I had seen at Dover.
As we went along, many churches grew out of
the fog, and passed into obscurity again. St.
Clement Danes I saw on one side, and Mary-le-
Strand on another. Then came an idiotic memorial
of a griffin blocking up the narrow lane the Strand
is at the Law Courts. The griffin marked the site
of Temple Bar; and near it is an old house, now
a barber’s shop, which is claimed to be the old
palace of Wolsey and Henry VIII. It is a badly-
built, narrow-passaged, low-roomed house; just
about good enough for king or priest.
There were the offices of 200 newspapers, each
of them as dreary as the Brisbane Daily Tele-
graph or the Hobart Mercury ; strange street
signs of “Fetter Lane,” Peahen Court,” “Wine
Office Court ” and “ The Olde Cheshire Cheese,”
and then we were out of Fleet-street and ascending
a little rise called Ludgat® Hill. I thought Lud-
gate Hill was a hill. i
I had read in English books and papers of the
readiness of the American to boast of his country.
Well, he has a country worthy of boastfulness.
Yet, as a braggart, he is several miles behind the
English. How often has the Englishman in Aus-
tralia spoken to me of Ludgate Hill, and Cheap-
side, and Fleet-street, and “the City” as if it
were the finest and only city on earth. The
“city” itself is not so wide as the “city” of
Adelaide proper—its streets are small, winding,
and returning on one another. The habit of
saying “Paternoster Row” and “Cheapside,” as
if they were each places of sweetness and light,
separated by shining streets like unto the streets
of Jerusalem the Golden, made me believe, while
in Australia, that London was really a beautiful
city. But having seen, I am minded to say to
every Englishman I meet: “Yes, not bad . . .
but you should see the Sarah Sands hotel on the
Sydney road at Brunswick. And you Englishmen
can have no idea of what beauty is until you’ve
been in Champion’s right-of-way, off Flinders
Lane. ”
However, I have discovered that Ludgate Hill
ascent has on its left the old Bailey, leading to
Newgate, and that at its top is St. Paul’s —a
truly marvellous building, whose height is lost by
reason of it being surrounded by warehouses. St.
Paul’s Churchyard is the place of drapers —the
home of rags. The church was built by Wren. The
English Government promised to pay the archi-
tect £2OO a year ; but it had so many princes and
clergy and other loafers to provide for that
Wren’s salary was never paid to time, and he
only secured it as the result of a very enthusiastic
and continuous pursuit.
St. Paul’s is rapidly being whitened by the
pigeons—as my cab drove into a bank of fog again,
a hundred degenerate blue rocks flew from the
roadway to the spring of the dome.
The cab-horse went on, feeling his way in the
darkness ; the fog lifted, and I saw a building
looking more like a high wall than anything else.
That was the Bank of England. Dead ahead, an
imitation of the Madeleine at Paris, the Pantheon
at Rome, and altogether a fine building—the
Royal Exchange. And, to the right, an ugly non-
descript house in stone, very like a flattened kind
of Australian Church in Flinders-street. That
was the Mansion House. From half-a-dozen
points of the irregular central space streams of
people poured into the street from below. These
are the Vomitoria of the tube railways—the fine
underground system of eleotrical transport which
was initiated, and is owned, by Americans.
The cab drew off into fog again, the traffic
crossed and passed and went ahead, and lessened
in volume, and swelled again, obedient to the signs
of the policemen ; and in five minutes more I had
reached Bishopsgate-street, and my friend was
saying, “ At last, old man ! ” and making me pro-
mise to live at his diggings. ... , .
Then I went into Leadenhall-street to see
another friend, and there were sounds of a brass
band blaspheming against music somewhere. Ihe
fog lifted for quite ten minutes, so that the papers
next day might say, “The weather was, as usual,
true to precedent. True Englishmen could never
be really satisfied unless there were fine days for
all our great celebrations. The birthday of our
late beloved Queen was always accompanied by
clear skies, and it was quite in the natural order
of things that the fog should rise for the Lord
Mayor’s Show.” 1 might say here that Queen s
weather ” on May 24 was owing to the fact of it
being May 24—it is rarely an English newspaper
talks of King’s weather. The birthday of the pre-
sent King is November 9, when there is no
sun in London.
I waited for the procession to pass, and 1 saw
the Lord Mayor’s Show. Firstly, what is the
“ Lord ” Mayor ? The Mayor of London has less
ostensible reason for existence than the Mayor of
Melbourne, who, as Mayor, hasn’t got much. The
London County Council does almost all the muni-
cipal work, and of what remains the Lord Mayor
doesn’t do any. The Mansion House, by which
name they style the pigeon-whited sepulchre, which
is like a bad imitation of Dr. Strong’s Church,
Flinders-st., Melbourne, is not used for the
Inspector of Nuisances, nor for the Health Office,
nor for the Weights and Measures man—the three
officials who, above all others, excuse the existence
of such an ignorant body as the average class-
elected, unpaid and cheap mayor and aldermen.
The Mansion House is used only for social pur-
poses. The Guildhall has become the official
Town Hall, and there a little business is done,
and more talk, and much guzzling. It is a sad
thing to admit that this Guildhall was once a
Trades Hall; but only the Employers’ Unions
met there. When the employees, in the active
days of these guilds, tried a little combination,
with the object of increasing wages and shortening
hours, they were always encouraged in the good
work with the lash, and the stocks, and a long,
deep think in Gaol.
Anyhow, the Lord Mayor’s procession was
there, and it looked like the procession Fitzgeralds’
Circus would be capable of after leaving Queens-
land and losing nearly all the circus in an old-man
flood.
First there was a detachment of city police, and
chey were the best thing in the procession. (By
the way, I never knew what a troop of perfect
men and horses meant, until I came to London.
And I have seen them only in A uStralia. W.hw,
you look on two score of the mounted police forces
of any of the Australian, you look on 80 of the
finest perpendicular and horizontal animals that
were ever born). Then came the Worshipful
Company of Fanmakers—a collection of old, peace-
ful gentlemen who could not have made a fan to
save their lives; the Worshipful Company of
Glovers, Patten Makers, and of. Stationers, each
o' them equally ignorant of gloves, pattens, and
paper; the Wor«Hpful Company of Innholders ;
ome fire engines; a life-boat; and a car repre-
enting Australia, with some miners in red shirts
and high boots, and a cocky farmer in a smock-
frock. There were also the city sheriff with his
Chaplain—or rather the Chaplain for the con-
demned —in a gilt coach with four horses, the
retiring Lord Mayor, and finally, the new god
Mayor, or Lord Mayor (although “ god ” sounds
more respectful) in a state chariot apparently
made of brass, and drawn by six horses.
He was attended by his Chaplain (he must
be a bad lot not to be able to behave him-
self properly for an hour without his chaplain)
and his sword-bearer (there ain’t no sword), and
his mace bearer (there’s no mace, either).
The six horses were each ridden by a postillion,
but there was also a footman to lead each horse,
and four tipstaffs—two walking on each side of
the ridiculous band-waggon which the god Mayor
calls his chariot. Lastly, three footmen stood up
on the tailboard, and hung on to straps from the
roof. I called out “ Whip behind ! ” but the fat
coachman, who drove the six horses which the six
postillions drove, and the six footmen led, did not
turn his head. Later on, I found that he couldn’t.
He was an apoplectic man, and his face was
nearly a foot wide. The pimples showed even
under the powder that was plastered thickly on
his face, and he looked as if he lived exclusively
on beer and fat.
Later on, I saw the front of the procession, and
there were in it knights in armor, and men in all
kinds of mediaeval dress. False-wigged, false-
bearded, much-painted supers from the theatres
were they. Their hair and beards and tin armor
were ghastly frauds, the only particular in which
they were naturally true to the time they repre-
sented was in their insanitariness. But the Eng-
lish are not a clean people yet —as a people ; and
speaking of them with an eye to Australian
standards of cleanliness. A bath in every Eng-
lish, and for that matter, in every continental
hotel, is an extra, and it is only the very modern
private houses that contain baths. The English-
man’s tub, as we read of it in the Englishman’s
novel, is a superstition ; and if it weren’t, what
sort of a wash can a man have in a tub ?
The procession done, I sought my Australian
friend in Leadenhall-street. We had been out-
side the city limits, which are in that direction
Camomile-street and Wormwood-street (suggest-
ing a garden of herbs in the shadow of the ancient
wall). I saw a shop there with a sign that stated
“Smoked pig’s chops” and “Boar’s Head with
pistachios ” were served there ; and then we went
into the city again at Houndsditch, and past St.
Botolph’s, St. Mary Axe, and Alderman Walk,
and came to the sign of the “S lip and Turtle.”
A notice therein stated that there was a “ Turtle
Crawl ”at the rear. Another Lord Mayor’s pro-
cession evidently, or a performance of McEacharn
receiving his cheap title again.
We had lunch at the Ship and Turtle—an
ordinary place of extraordinary charges, and run
by the original 40 thieves and a brother of the
impenitent malefactor. Turtle soup ss. a plate,
salmon 3s. a portion, and not much to talk about
when you had them. Henceforth I shall keep
my appetite for rare dishes for the places where
the rare dishes grow. Townsville has the
atmosphere for the eating of turtle steaks and
beche-de-mer.
“How many breads, sir?” said the waiter,
preparing to write the items with a very short
pencil on a very long slip of paper.
“Breads!”
“ Yessir —breads, sir, an’ butters, sir.”
“Do you mean to tell me you want to know
how many bites of bread I ate, and how many of
those little pennyweight bits of butter ? ”
“ Yessir —breads sir, and butters sir—’ow many,
sir ? ”
“ I don’t know ; you’d better average,
He averaged, with 10 per cent, on for the risk.
“I had two salts,” I said, gravely.
“Two salts, sir?”
“Yea, and two peppers and two mustards.
“Peppers, sir, an’ mustards we don’t charge
I took the docket and moved towards the cash-
desk, , . ,
He coughed, “Beg pardon, sir, forgotten
somethin’, sir.”
I gave him fourpence.
“Thanky, sir,” and he was gone to another
customer.
The tip system is a curse in England—a curse
which has become law, partly by reason of the
studied carelessness of a leisured class with regard
to the money it has never been asked to earn, and
partly because the employer, recognising the ex-
istence of tips, engages waiters at no wages at all,
leaving them to make a living by this organised
blackmail of customers. Certain police-court
evidence given in London during my visit showed
that in many, and perhaps all, of the principal
hotels and restaurants, the proprietors charged,
the waiters anything over £1 a week for the
privilege of working, and, in some cases, insisted
on a division of the tips, in addition ! The injus-
tice of this struck me at first, and then I “ kicked”
against it. Now, having things to do so much more
important, I fall in with the rest, and tip for every-
thing. A waiter opens the door—lie expects a
tip ; he tells you the time, and waits for a tip ;
and, if you are busy, and therefore absent-minded,
you pay the penny and go away a spineless worm,
and not a man. There is nothing more lowering
of self-respect than this continuous and shameless
hunger for unearned pence.
After lunch, I had a drink in a place in Bishops-
gate-street, which is an authentic palace of
Richard 111. A palace in those days was some-
thing like a small Ebenezer church, and must have
been very uncomfortable to live in. It is used
as a pub. and eating-house now.
Then I was introduced to a very circumspect
English gentleman, who, I was told, would find
the working capital for the property I had
brought for flotation.
He was a middle-aged man, of that fairness of
hair and beard so common in England. In youth
and under sunlight that Norse fairness, and the
skin that accompanies it, looks like the highest
expression of energy, even if it isn’t ; in middle
age or ill-health, when the life-light goes out of
the eye, the blood from the cheek, and the nim-
bus from the hair, it looks more old and faded
than ever does the faded brunette. And all the
life and energy had gone out of the circumspect
man, although he had an accession of thin excite-
ment after the second whisky.
“Are you sure you can find the money, if the
thing itself is all right ? ” I asked.
“Sure, sir—sure.” He searched his breast-
pocket for some papers that were not there. ‘‘ No
matter. Why, sir, I have during the last week
closed up a matter of a million which I got for an
Indian Railway Company on debentures.”
That seemed satisfactory enough, and I was
green enough to be pleased with the chances. "We
left the financial genius and walked to a narrow,
crooked track called Old Broad-street. This is the
place of the Australian—anywhere from here to
Throgmorton-st. he may be found in various gilded
bars where people do not swallow their drink like
Christians, but block new'drinkers by squatting,
book-keeperwise, on tall, clerkly seats by the bar-
counter, and there browsing over half a pint of
stout, or a microscopic liqueur.
Those Australians who are not quite at the top
of finance go to the “Fleapit,” a dive-bar and
billiard-room and restaurant under Broad-street
House. In the boom times, there they drink
champagnes ; and in the slump beer, if lucky.
One of the little barmaids in the little bar, a really
innocent barmaid, or one of the best imitations of
innocence extant, said : , . , . ~
“You oughter ’ave seen this bar m the Wes-
tralian boom, you couldn’t get near me then.
“May I now, baby?” ~,
“ Don’t be stoopid. . . It was Idesick then—it s
beer now.” ~
I moved off, seeing a friend in the corridor.
‘ ‘ Don’t go, fairy, I didn’t mean it.
Fairy ! ! ! ...
I met many men there —each with his mine to
float, his specimens in some office or another, Ins
voluminous reports in his pocket. ,
“No good now —but just you wait till the wars
° V They were all waiting for the war to end. Some
waited month after month with billiard-cues m
their hands; others made calendars of their
glasses. And, in the natural order of things, not
five per cent, of them could hope for success.
Hope is a greater force than all the others. 1
thouglit these things as I left the “ifleapit,
quite satisfied that my float was safe in the hands
of the man who had found the million for that
Indian railway.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


ADVICE IN SEASON
WITH the approach of Spring everyone begins to have a run' down, and out of
sorts feeling. This debilitated condition arises in this way. Winter, with
its wet and cold, seeks out all the weak spots and leaves the blood charged
with impurities, the bowels clogged, and the liver sluggish. Few people
escape from these Springtime sufferings, and many are the little ills which make this
season of the year a time of sickness and ill-health. There is only one way to remedy
this condition. The whole system requires toning up, the diet regulated, and the diges-
tive organs put into thorough*'working order. BILE BEANS FOR BILIOUSNESS
have proved themselves by long experience to be the very best specific for this purpose.
They act in a gentle manner, give tone to the digestive organs, regulate the nervous
system, enabling you to enjoy fully the welcome Spring weather.
CECALIA M. J. MON AN, of 10 Lactcey Street, St. Peters, Sydney, says:
“ Twelve months ago I suffered considerably from headache, tired feeling:,
loss of appetite, and sleeplessness. I tried doctors without success. Sub-
sequently Bile Beans were brought to my notice, and I decided to give
them a trial. The contents of the first box gave me great relief, and, thus
encouraged, I continued a course for a month, with the result that I now
eat heartily and enjoy a good night’s sleep. I praise Bile Beans highly for
what they have done for me, and always re’commend them to fellow-
sufferers.”
Thus by purifying the blood and stimulating the liver, stomach and digestive
organs to proper action, BILE BLANS are an >undoubted cure for BILIOUSNESS,
INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION, PILES, BAD BLOOD, PIMPLES, AND ALL
SKIN ERUPTIONS, HEADACHE, DEBILITY, NERVOUSNESS, ANAEMIA,
AND A HOST OF OTHER AILMENTS THAT OWE' THEIR ORIGIN TO
DEFECTIVE BILE FLOW, ASSIMILATION, AND DIGESTION. BILE
BEANS are obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers, PRICE 1/1A and 2/9 large
box (contains three times small size), or direct from the AUSTRALASIAN DEPOT,
BILE BEAN MANUFACTURING CO., 39 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
iff
vi.
m
V
m
-•<; V * *
ILIOIISNC3S
A. <& F.
PEARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Notice I
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being 1
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street, |
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels, '
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
My Fairy Godmother.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Hear me now, 0 Queen of Rhyme,
Swear, for this last thousandth time,
That, though thee I still adore,
I shall be thy slave no more.
Fairy Godmothers there be,
Bringing gifts to Infancy ;
Visiting, though now unseen,
Cradles rich, and cradles mean.
Singing luck-compelling runes,
Lo, they come with silver speons,
Knives to open oysters wide,
Wherein pearls of price abide !
Babes to whom these gifts they bring
Shall not lack for anything ;
Purple they shall wear out-dOors,
And fine linen pinafores;
And when they grow up shall be
Leaders of society—
Brewers, Lords of softgoods stores,
Newspaper proprietors.
Unto my poor little cot
Godmothers like these came not;
But thou earnest from the South,
With dark Fair and scarlet mouth.
Singing a sweet, grateful song
That my heart remembered long,
Bringing me—else were I mute,
Just a little foolish lute.
Had itNbeen a Magic Lyre,
Framed in gold and strung with fire,
Such as thy great Harpers sweep,
Then I dare not hold it'bheap.
Other Bards I envy not —
Room there is for all, God wot—
All I ask is room for me
On the top branch of the tree.
Had I, as my own, to sing
Life and Death, and Love and Spring,
And the sunset in the West—
They might freely have the rest.
When the sun falls from the sky
Candles will be dear to buy;
When the Greater Voices cease
I shall own the Earth in peace.
VICTOR J. DALSY.
Land-Sharks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The cart was a dilapidated affair, but the day was
hot and dusty, and ‘it was yet seven miles to
Brisbane. So I was glad of a “lift.” The driver
showed himself to be very different from what one
would expect from his frowsy clothes and his
occupation of “bottle-oh.” Some hint to this
effect which I ventured was not resented ; rather,
it evoked confidences.
“Seven years ago this Christmas eve,” he told
me, “my mate Billy Maehen and I were lying in
our tent at Sandport, where we had gone for the
holidays. We were discussing a little plan of cam-
paign. I was correspondence clerk in the Lands
Department. Billy was a junior clerk in a ware-
house. We had been chums ever since we came
together at the ‘ Normal.’
“I had struck something as good as a horse in
a big sweep. Rummaging among the old maps in
a lumber-room at the office, I casually glanced at
one of the South-eastern Downs—an up-to date
map of which district I had, an hour previously,
on my desk. A 240-acre block, in the County of
Benton, Parish of Robinson, which was marked
4 reserve ’ in the modern map, was an ‘ agricul-
tural farm ’ in the old map, dated 1869. Evidently
this farm had been thrown open under the ’6B
Land Act. How did it become a reserve ? I was
very curious; so did some more rummaging, and
took,home a large bundle of ’69 Government
Gazettes. Sure, enough, I found therein No.
1760 an agricultural farm. It took me some time
to hunt up the plunder —for office-blunder it cer-
tainly* was. I found that the land had never been
withdrawn, or/ 4 proclaimed as a reserve in the
Gazette. Every other acre of land in the district
had been freehold for a generation. Improved land
alongside of No. 1760 was selling at £l6 an acre.
In the Divisionab»Board maps it tvas marked
‘reserve,’ and the farmers around took it for
granted that it was a reserve for something or
other. I now knew differently. But I had to
get it in the Gazette again under the ’92 Land
Act. I tookicare to sandwich the notification
among a block of grazing farms in the north-west,
where there is also a County Hamilton.
“I trusted my friend Billy. He said I could
trust him with my life. were to go halves.
My mate resigned his billet, went up to the local
Land Office and put in his application for
No. 1760. It would mean—unimproved as it
was—£24oo without a doubt. The officer in
charge of the Molobin office laughed at him.
I had expected this, but a letter from the head-
office, saying 4 the Minister approves of B.
Larragh’s application for No. 1760 as an agricul-
tural farm,’ soon brought the officer to his bear-
ings. I hadn’t to do any forgery or anything
like that. I hadn’t spent 12 years in the office
without knowing the ways of our old Under-
secretary, - I used to bring in the letters for him
to sign. I put what he considered formal letters
on his table in a bundle, and stood by with the
blotting-pad ready. He signed ; I blotted the
signature and whisked the letters away quick and
lively.”
“Well,” I interrupted, as the cart jolted over
a rut, “ vour mate, I suppose, sold-out, and”
44 No fear ; the is on that farm now, and
I’m driving this cart. This year he had 200 acres
under wheat, and it yielded eight bags to the
acre—£6oo clear profit. He refused from the first
to give me a cent. I went on a long burst, and
lost my billet. That’s the reason I want a Hell
badlv. mate, to snnare-nn in the future ”
q.
T.M.D.
A peculiar accident befel a young man
named Baker at Billinudgel (N.S.W.) the other
day. He was struck by a falling tree while scrub-
cutting, and the crook of a limb completely severed
his leg above the boot, burying the foot 12 inches
in the ground.
The Tale of a Postmistress.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You see, mine is only a suburban office, and I am
merely a woman ; still, I meet with experiences
now and again.
There’s the man who carefully avoids the letter-
box, and after examining every brick separately
and minutely, decides that the proper place to
post his document is under the most obscure door
often the front door of the private residence.
Then there is a superannuated medico who in-
sists upon having me called to attend to him,
although til ere are three other officials who could
minister to his wants. He generally times his
visit, too, when I am having a siesta, or a bath,
or doing my hair, and I almost invariably find
that he requires a half-penny stamp, or wants to
know for the hundredth time if there’s a mail
every day to Melbourne, or if there are reliable
arrangements for transmitting letters to Brisbane.
“No, I don’t swear, not being a man. I smile
.at him and assure him that letters posted here are
not lost'any oftener than letters posted anywhere
else. There is also the bashful young man who
enters on tiptoe, and, after taking a stealthy
glance at everything and everybody in the office,
asks the apparently unnecessary question, “ Do—
you—sell—stamps—here ? ” After being solemnly
assured that we do occasionally, he blushes a deep
crimson, and asks for one—a penny one. I never
knew the demand exceed that. But I have known
a bashful young man from the bush wanted two
penny stamps, and whose courage failed him so
badly after buying one that he walked two miles
to another'office for the second one.
. But the really comic man is the drunk, who
insists upon sending a telegram, and isn’t parti-
lar where or to whom, or what it is about. He
merely feels that life isn’t worth having unless he
sends a telegram. Drunks of the generous type
invariably run about in cabs and send telegrams,
and call round every half-hour for the reply. The
worst case to deal with is the hard-up drunk, who
wires to his friends for funds. There is no impa-
tience like unto his. I have been threatened with
a large rock if the answer wasn’t forthcoming.
What did I do ? Oh, adopted early-closing
principles.
The drunk sometimes has a mate who wants
the “lend” of a 2d. stamp to write to his poor
dear mother in Maoriland, or elsewhere. She
never lives in a penny section, anyway.
Yes, we sometimes have scenes with the people
who call for their letters. I remember one old
seedy-looking stranger who, after coming a few
times unsuccessfully, remarked : “That letter be
a long time cornin', but I don’t set much store by
it, anyhow. I say ; you’re a widbw, ain’t yer?”
I admitted the fact.
“Well, I daresay, now you’d like to get away
from this ’ere.” I’ve a room out in my paddock ;
and I’ll marry yer, if yer like and can cook well
enough.”
The funniest of all are the people who bank
money. They seem to have an idea that they are
bound to explain to me how they became possessed
of it, and promise me that they will bring it regu-
larly. Nearly all the depositors are women. A
man never saves until he is married, and not often
then, but nearly all women contrive to lay-by a
trifle, and feel that they are safer in leaving it
with another woman. And then the histories and
apologies when they want to withdraw some.
“Which, of course, I never expected to have to
take it out so soon, but poor little Johnny, you
see, had to have his tooth out, and Pearlie wanted
new boots, and my husband, he’s been out o’ work
this week, and I’ll put it back next week or the
week after, mum, if you don’t mind, and I’m v-ery
sorry for taking it out.” Here she stops half-a-
minute for breath, and*begins a fresh explanation
as to Johnnie’s tooth.
A glib Irishwoman one day came in and wanted
to send some money home (by the way, this is a
species of liberality only practised by Irish
people). After extorting from her most of the
necessary particulars for a money-order, I said,
“And what is your name, please ? ”
“ My name, is it ? ” with a surprised gasp.
“ Yes, your name in full.”
“ Oh, ye know it right well,” banteringly.
“Indeed, no, I do not,” I said.
“Ye don’t know my name, and my son passes
here three times a day in a milk-cart.”
And even then I had to humbly admit that I
couldn’t even guess it; but I’m sure she left under
the impression that I was just “puttin’ on.”
INSULATOR.
Lockup-keepers and their families are,
without a doubt, the worst-treated public servants
in the matter of domestic accommodation. The
medical officer’s statement about the Picton
(N.S.W.) loekup is, with little modification, true
of most such places , in N.S.W. The constable’s
wife and children have to sleep almost right up
against the cell doors, and the howls of the freshly-
captured drunk are in their ears all night. Par-
liament should have put lockups into some part of
the Factories Act, and make them subject to in-
spection.
Melbourne takes increasing interest in its
band of unaccountable wanderers called Gypsies.
These camped in'a hotel yard at Port Melbourne
professedly to wait for a German mailboat. That
yarn looked none too waterproof, But when a
couple of German boats departed without any
move by the wanderers the local health authorities
decided they were being fooled, and deported
Ishmael and Co. to a spot about a mile away from
a house, on Fisherman’s Bend, on the ground that
Ishmael was a noxious disease and an epidemic.
The local youth visited the “camp” next Sunday
and as they persisted in making Aunt Sallies of
the ramshackle tents a dark-haired woman and a
black-eyed boy started performing with a gun.
This resulted in two nippers getting their legs
justly filled with small shot, and the crowd
adjourned hastily. A week later two Ballarat
banks were exploited by three dark-skinned
foreigners speaking English with difficulty, who
“rang the changes” in bank-notes to the tune of
£55. They got away, but a day later a'gentleman
was caught in the very act of working the same
game on the Bank of Australasia in Melbourne,
and he turned out to be one of the alleged Greek
Gypsies. He says he is a Spaniard and others say
they are Mexicans ; anyhow, though they are an
antediluvian crowd to look at, th\y seem to have
some up-to-date customs. Their tale now is that
they were waiting for a boat to take them
to Maoriland, but since the arrest of the
pseudo-Spaniard they have decided to dwell
where they are till his return. Writer opines
they will dwell for a considerable time. And this
is the band about which the Argus raged like the
heathen, and concerning which it anathematized
the Federal and N.S.W. Governments for
harassing “a party of desirable immigrants, with
means, "who desired only 'to take up land and
settle down to become useful citizens.”


Purifies the Blood
Bushmen Must Drink Bad Water. This Makes Bad Blood. Sickness
Follows. How to Make the Blood Pure.
m
'A3i
u/Ai
Mr. Alexander Johnson, of Bourke,
New South Wales, sends us his photo-
graph and says:
“ For many years I have been en-
gaged in shepherding, stock-droving,
and other occupations so well known
to bushmen. Often the drinking-
water was very bad, and I was ex-
posed to other hardships of bush life.
I found all the men around me using
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, so I tried it. For
cleansing and purifying my blood, and
for giving me new life and energy, I
found it the most wonderful medi-
cine I ever used. I do not see how
bushmen get along without it. I
advise all who read this to keep a
bottle of this grand medicine on hand
all the time, for it’s a great health
preserver.”
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Perhaps you are not exposed to all the hardships of hush life. Yet you
have probably suffered from impure blood, great debility, nervousness, exhaus-
tion, indigestion, and other evidences of a weakened system. No matter what
your occupation, nor where you live, if you are in need of a blood-purifying
medicine and,something to build up your nerves, you should certainly take
this grand family medicine.
You will make a great mistake if you try any other Sarsaparilla than
“Ayer’s.” This is the kind that has been making the cures for sixty years.
AYER’S i arsaparilla
Strengthens the Stomach and Builds up the Nerves
Ayer’s Pills—a gentle laxative for the whole family.
Prepared by'Dß. J. 0. AYES. & CO.. Lowell. Maas.. TT. S. A.
Bulletin Reciter; Price 5s
.
LIST OF CONTENTS: Postage 4d-
The How - We-Beat-the -
Favourite Affliction ...
Gig Fours
Don’t Let the Moth Get In
The Winner of the Squat-
ters’ Cup
The Three Roads .„
Christmas Belle
My Mate Bill ... ...
What the Bottle Said ...
A German Lament
The Anarchist
The Fall of Patrick
Dooley
The Jester of the Damned
The Hairy Man of Koora-
watha
A Big “Bust”
A Tight Corner
The Road to Wyoming
Jim Jamieson, of Tringabar
The Mallee Fire
Among the Palms
Dreams and Deeds
Boko
“Dunno!”
The Fat Man and the War
The Shoe
The Cocky’s Handy Man ...
Bashful Gleeson
Skeeta
The Currency Lass
The Confidential Jockey
How We Won the Ribbon
A Twisted Idyl
The Tugs of Simpsonville
The Sick Cab-Rider
Tambaroora ...
Father Riley’s Horse
O’Toole and M‘Sharry ...
Faces in the Street
The Bush Missionary
The Last Bullet
The Honeymoon Train ...
The Murder-Night...
A Scotch Night
M. M. O’Donnell
“McG
T. A. Wilson
Frank Bellman
Victor J. Daley
“John Carew ”
G. H. Gibson
E. J. Brady
“ Bendee ”
Arthur H. Adams
E. J. Dempsey
J. H. Greene
“ Tom Freeman ”
Edward Dyson
C. H. Souter
Evelyn Threlfall
“ Pan ”
G. H. Souter
“ Hesketh ”
E. J. Dempsey
“ Curlew ”
Bernard Espinasse
“ May net ”
J. M. L.
“ Ben Sun ”
Edward Dyson
Bareroft Boake
Roderic Quinn
Francis Kenna
Will H. Ogilvie
Frank Morton
. W. T. Goodge
Edmund Fisher
“ Bendee ”
A■ B. Paterson
Thomas E. Spencer
Henry Lawson
W. T. Goodge
John Farrell
A. G. Stephens
Hugh M'Crae
WiU H. Ogilvie
Sole Distributing Agents —
Edwards , Dunlop & CoLtd., Sydney and Brisbane.
m
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN=SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
E PPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER
DON’T MISS THIS
OPPORTUNITY, if you are suffering with WEAKENING,
NERVOUS, and DEBILITATING Diseases. Our CON-
CENTRATED BOTANIC REMEDIES will CURE YOU.
So CONFIDENT are we of this that we will send to any
sufferer a TRIAL COURSE (Free of Charge) and abide
by the RESULT. Send NOW and your ultimate CURE
is CERTAIN. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney,
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ W ORTH A
GUINEA A BOX."
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame, these
are “facts" admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham's Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieme m
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, In Boxes, Is and 2s 9d each.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL, you enjoy your
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAT.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAT.
Single Room, with Full Board, Bs. per
day, or £2 2s. per week.
TERMS.—The convenient
system of paying- for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance.” Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.30 —from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK; Price, 4s. 6d
LIST OF CONTENTS.
Postage 6d
m
F\ 'I
L I
V/" ♦'/•/
/Mr*' *
4
f£Zf.ursfr
i '/' <’/.
V'ft *r--
IKSMI'
'S' ■
w/
'•"C:‘
is the best dressing made for all bright finished leathers. -
It is easily applied with a cloth, and produces a polish that is unequaled for brilliance
and permanence. Men, women, and children who use “ Crozine ” once want “ Crozine ”
always, as it is the most satisfactory waterproof dressing made for all varieties of shoes.
Sold almost everywhere. Made and guaranteed only by
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS, Boston, Mass., U. S. Ai


Asbestos Boiler Covering
. . . Saves 25 Per Cent, in Fuel ...
PACKED WET, Ready for Use, in 3cwt. Casks, 7/-, 8/-, 9/- cwt.
PACKED DRY, in Bags, each lcwfc., 12/-, 14/-, 16/- cwt.
Estimates given for Covering: Boilers and
Steam Pipes.
OUR ASBESTOS BOILER COVER
Saves 25 per cent, in Fuel.
PERDRIAU and COMPANY,
268-270 George Street, Sydney
Telephones— 418, 487.
CftTEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
■W. c. ZELIDIRIIDOIE & CO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
iiM
■ - -
•■ fi
•-
-5. A
r*?i
/a**#
' >
afsSilg
■-■
m
m
Kg«»S
mk
&r '.iyjwf
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Worthingtaa Pimps
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send lor Catalogue.
Spoons, Forks,
Celebrated
PLATE and
mark.
CUTLERY
J. & J. MAXFIELD, PRoras.. SHEFFIELD
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York-St.
SYDNEY.
AISO AT
•* ‘l'gfPt BXj O OK,»’
Collins-st.. SVSELBOURNE.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
IT
BY USING
0
tU-
\*
v
KEEPS THE $m
COOL AND
REFRESHED
V IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- &, 2/6.
Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne :
• '
Sydney.
I
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gou'
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
Parke & Lacy Co. ltd.
Write for Prices and Particulars of
Knowles Steam Pumps
Best Value. Highest Efficiency.
A Large Stock of Pumps suitable for every
kind of service ready for immediate delivery.
60 Clarence-st., Sydney, and
533 Collins-st., Melbourne.
m
Sufferers from Deafness or Head Noises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to The L. R. VERNON CO
tO HUNTER fcT., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet desc ibing an entirely new self-
applied method which we will send post
free on mentioning this paper.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS. PRICE, 4s. 6d. j POSTAGE 6d.
' Sole Distributing Agents—
Edwards, I)tin lop & (Jo. f Etd. f Sydney and Evisbeme.
Henry Skinner,
Glarendon-st., South Melbourne)
Telephone No. 1013. -^CATERER.
elf' a ver - y extensive and carefully
selected PLA.N T °F TAELR FURNISHINGS, by
ar the largest and most complete in the
an f l can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
H. P. SREEORy S CO.
Machinery Merchants,
Melbourne & Sydney.
HAVE IN STOCK—
Blake’s Steam Pumps.
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery.
Mundy’s Hoisting Engines-
Empire Co.’s Laundry Machinery-
American “All Steel” Pulleys-
Harris £ ‘Champion” Lubricating Oils.
Mason Reducing Valves-
Ludlow Sluice Valves-
Korting's Injectors and Ejectors-
Tanite Emery Wheels.
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for—
Solarine Metal Polish
Billett’s Patent Tuyere
“Vitaphone” Talking Machine
Dodge Standard Wood Split
Pulley
Atlas Pipe Wrench
“Abbott” Germ Proof Filter
Public and
Private Balls
[Catered for
on Slost
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets am)
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING! FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
Kild^T3 P n LES «f < ?- EORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Ar nn ; ' > V and Cablc Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
