

McE WAN’S ALE GAELIC WHISKY. Reid’s London Draught Stout.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity-”
The Lancet.
R. <3r, WA.TK.IWTS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining- and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS' Am GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AMD SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Slit
.i'-;
Over 2700 Hydro-Extraotors Sold and at worlr
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
71 CLAREMCE ST.
Sydney.
S
And at
486 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
214 HIGH ST., FREMANTLE.
MCDONALD ST., KALCOORLIE.
CUBA STREET EXTENSION, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Being- a reprint of a large number of articles from
The Bulletin, in which this paper has attempted to
outline a solvent, honest and democratic policy
for-Federated Australia.
I3E"
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PEIOES PEE FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 3 3£ 4 6 6 8 10 12 inch.
~/7 ~/9 -/10J 1/- 1/2 1/6 1/11 2/8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 211 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SOW, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Eight Different Articles,
comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket (a good
trick), Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin
and Card Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard
Fish (gives definition of your character), That Wonderful
Cinematograph or Book of Living Pictures, Mafeking
Grub (or nerve-strengthener), That side-splitting Look
and Laugh Glass, and, last of all, The Spider and the Fly
(an ingenious mechanical toy). Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
X7lO George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON. Manager.
KIRIN
L
GER
85 Pitt Street,
*
VGENTS FOB
BROADBENT’S
m
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS
These machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods, Sugar
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat; Extract, etc. All sixes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send fo;
Testimonials and full particulars.
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
HELIDON SPA
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
TOOTH &; CO. Ittcl., ts, SydLney.
■
a*®® 5
i
i
m
HOBART
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10U3.
—•
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
ot various sizes supplied.
BAXTER’S BARLEY BREE
THE THREE B’s
{ WHISKY }
ARE HUMMING.
EMPIRE HOTEL, SYDNEY
JVCOSa: GEIsrTBAIjIjY SITUATED.
OTARD-DUPU7
Estbd. 1795. 25 Years BRANDY.
DE
PROOF
'
mm
neaa ujjice:
10 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY
THE SPIRIT OF THE TIMES.
——
ONE COMMONWEALTH ONE STIMULANT-
BOOMERANG BRANDY
9
ADELAIDE
WINES.
Natures Most
Pleasing Restorative
From the Oldest Vineyards
IN
South Australia.
D? Andrew Wilson F. R.S.E.-
Author of'Health Notes?*
London.
SAYS
PENFOLD’S WINES
Arethe Safest Stimulant”
SYDNEY CELLARS
84 Pitt Street.
The Bulletin
Vol 23—No. 1145. j
[Saturday, January 25, 1902.
Registered at the General Poet Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE LATEST BOOKS AT
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Tub Bulletin Reciter, Gs, postage sd.
Wells, The First Man in the Moon, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Platts, Papa (Limited), 2s 6d and 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Bloundelle-Burton, Year One, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Edwards, Wales (Story of the Nations), ss, postage 6d.
Jastrow, Study of Religion, 6s, postage Bd.
Crockett, Firebrand, 2s 6d add 3s 6d, postage 6d.
The Bulletin Story Book, 4s 6d, postage 6d.
Woodroffe, Tangled Trinities, 2s Gd and 3s 6d, postage Gd.
Montressor, The Alien, 2s Gd and 3s Gd, postage 6d.
Alexander. Yellow Fiend, 2s Gd and 3s Gd, postage 6d.
Nicholson’s Principles of Pol. Economy, Vol. 111., 15s, p. 8d
Cook, The Bride’s Book, 6s, postage 6d.
Holdsworth, Great Lowlands, 6s, postage fld.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SVDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
aOIOA ‘IVOHHI ‘S«MI11
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
Si
msm
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
0. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Begistered).
Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous drug . .
.... nv ... CHEMISTS In Tins, Is6d; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland
80 free oS Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE, and FELTON, GRIMWADE &
Melbourne, i^ents.
-post
& CO.,
THE BED PAGE.
Australia for Australians.
ICT OT for the British : certainly not.
\ Nob for the Germans, nor for the
French, nor for any other European
nation ; and emphatically not for
ia. But for honest men of good European
>ck who will make Australia their home,
d put Australia Always First. The cowl
es nob make the monk, and it is not
itish blood that makes the Australian,
le Australian is the man who centres his
jals in Australia, and consciously or un-
nsciously devotes his life to making this
untry 4 ' prosper. The foreigner in Aus-
ilia is the man who, be he of British blood
not, works for an end outside Australia ;
d struggles to keep this country in vassal-
e to alien opinions, in order that the fruits
her growth may be utilised for the
vantage of Europeans who have no
sential sympathy with our national life. It
the British foreigner in Australia who has
cklessly squandered men and money in
sisting the British attempt to bring a new
rritory under tribute, and to establish a
sw Ireland, a new India, in South Africa,
istance alleviates the foreign disease :
Lme will cure it; but in the interests of his
'untry —which are his own—every Austra-
in should actively endeavour to hasten the
itural progress to national health.
* ♦ m 9
Australia is still under British domini-
on. At the census of 1891 there were in
lis country nearly the same number of men
: adult age, born in Britain, as there were
ten born in Australia. A man naturally
eaves to the land of his birth; and the
ritish in Australia necessarily endeavour to
ale Australia for the benefit of Britain,
'rom one point of view patriotism is intelli-
ent self-interest ; from another point
f view it is a sentimental prejudice ;
nd the British foreigner struggles be-
ween the sentiment which attaches him
o Britain, and the reason which tells
im that, so far as he lives and labours in
Lustralia, his interests are bound up in Aus-
ralia. Up to the present, the Briton in
Australia has been able to worship hereditary
entiment without seriously injuring himself,
typically speaking, he has not gone as a con-
ingenter to Africa. He has not given away
noney which he really needed. The Aus-
ralian contingents have been a national
vaste ; but they have involved no personal
sacrifice by the British foreigner. He has
seen patriotic at Australia’s expense, and,
is a Briton, he is not concerned with Aus-
tralia’s expense. In worshipping at the same
time his Jingo God and his peculiar Mammon
he is conscious that he has fulfilled his best
British attributes.
* • * *
With the British foreigner are linked his
descendants who, though burn in Australia,
have been taught to call Britain “ home,”
and to look upon Britain as the master,
Australia as the servant. They havd learnt
to cower before Britain as the convict
cowered before the whip. When the
last generation of Australian natives was
growing to manhood Britain was still
all in all, and their minds will
be permeated by the British leaven
until they die? 1 Though born here,
these men are more foreign in Australia
than the humblest German farmer who puts
away the thought of fatherland and settles
down to call his children’s fatherland his
home. And it is these British Australians
who still, in company with Britons, adminis-
ter our government —to British ends. Austra-
lian-born representatives number about one-
half of the Commonwealth Parliament ; and
the Australian-born representatives who have
learnt to put Australia First are few indeed.
Every year is altering that. Every year sees
the sentiment of Australian nationality take
firmer root and wider branching. Every
year Australian youths are growing up to
ask themselves the pregnant question, What
does Australia gain by remaining an appan-
age of the British Empire ? and how much
does she stand to lose ? And every year
more men aud more are realising that the
source of Australian greatness, the founda-
tion of Australian peace and security, the
guarantee of the prosperity of Australian
people and of the happiness of Australian
homes, are to be found in the concentration
of industry and effort and aspiration within
the borders of our own territory.
• * • •
What essential partorlot have we in foreign
ambitions or foreign quarrels, British or
other 1 Why should we marry our national
ideals to the corpses of European intrigue 1
Let the dead Past bury its debt : our debt is
to the Future. We have no reason to spend
ourselves to prop up the decaying greatness
of Britain. We have no reason to adopt the
jealousies and bigotries of Britain. We
have no reason to spurn Germany, or to
despise France, or to fear Russia—save and
except as a British dependency. Australia
should be cosmopolitan, welcoming all men
whose blood will mix with ours to produce
a vigorous offspring. Does this seem
lue ? It is not so vague as it seems.
:ions live by ideas, not by material bread
le. The reasons which ally us to Britain
reasons of trade and defence : our in-
itries are still in chief measure developed
British capital ; our coasts are still
rolled by British ships—though their
tection, if the British Isles be menaced,
lot worth the snap of a finger. But these
reasons for alliance, not for dependence,
en now, it is a question whether the drain
interest-tribute is not a loss outweighing
gain of commercial connection with
tain ; it is a question whether the risk of
ng made partner in Britain’s quarrels does
i outweigh the safety attributed to the
is of the British flag. To both these
Bstions the years will bring us answer,
the meantime, let Australians cease to re-
d Australia as a sponge to be* squeezed
the benefit of Britain.
* * • •
Make no mistake : in all this there is no
3tilicy to Britain. Britain is our natural
y, our best ally, and we will cleave
her as long as we may. Most of us are
rung from British stock ; and there is* no
tter stock in the world we could have
rung from. Denunciation of the vices of
e British character, the British nation,
es not exclude appreciation of the
lendid British virtues. In the survey
nations British greed and hypocrisy are
'ssibly more than balanced by British
lour, British independence, the stubborn
ritish defence of liberty and justice within
e British islands. It may be that in the
ogress of years the British virtue is
wakening, the British vicek are prepon-
srating; but we can never forget the Past.
) that little island in the North Sea
e world owes many an inspiring thought,
any a heroic example. We in Aus-
alia speak the English language, we
herit the English literature ; and we gladly
knowledge the debt as the best foundation
: a language and literature of our own. It
ill be many a century before Australia can
low a list of names to compare with the
lustrious roll of British worthies. Remem*
ering all this : who in Australia could be
ostile to Britain ? And yet
* * * *
Nations, like individuals, are guided by
;lf-iaterest; they must be guided by self-
iterest if they are to live. In all Britain’s
ansactions with Australia Britain’s self-
lterest has been the paramount factor. The
istory of Australia in relation to Britain
antains only three main epochs. In the
rst, this country was conceived solely as
mste land where British criminals could be
>ut out of sight and forgotten. As long as
he possibly could, Britain retained the
otion that Australia was merely a convict
ettlement, a receptacle for felons. Even when
ransportation had been formally abolished
he convicts were still sent hither. It was
nly when the Randolph was stopped at
*ort Phillip Heads, and the Hashemy’s
ntrance to Port Jackson excited a deter-
uined protest, that the British Govt, reluc-
antly gave way to the eastern States—and
ontinued to send convicts to the West and
o Tasmania. The total number of British
onvicts landed on these shores was not far
hort of 150,000 ; and to this day we suffer
rom the polluted stream. “As I walk along
he Sydney streets,” said a N.S.W. Supreme
Dourt Judge to the writer, “ I can trace con-
vict heredity in many a face.” For, mark
,his : crime does not die out for many
rears. . Its features may be weakened and
ittenuated ; but they persist to the utter-
nost generation. What is the compara-
;ive sluggishness of the denizens of New
South Wales, of Tasmania, and of West-
tralia—a sluggishness which has become a
byword—but a testimony to the superiority
of the honest blood which founded Victoria,
South Australia, and Maoriland ? What are
the unmentionable crimes hidden in the
Australian bush—the family incest, the
passionless murders, such as that by the
Dederers at Boggabri—but a witness to the
fact that the legacy of the “old hands”
has never died out, and will never
die out entirely 1 And it is this—this pol-
lution of the national life at its source—
which is Australia’s cardinal debt to Britain.
* * * •
When Australia ceased, to be a dumping-
ground for Britain’s criminal rubbish, it
passed into a new epoch as an arena for
the career of British younger sons, a
field for the investment of British capital.
The British Govt, neglected us, but private
self-interest took the place of public self-
interest, and Australia gained while Britain
gained. Now commences the third epoch,
in which Australia is seen as a re-
cruiting-ground for the British army, a prop
for the British Empire. Once more the
British Govt., after a long period of care-
lessness, has become alive to the fact that
Australia may be directly exploited for
British ends. It is full time to resist. Our
aims are not Britain’s aims. This
country cannot continually bleed to save the
British skin. From first to last, the guid-
>ing principle of Britain’s policy in relation
to Australia has been British self-interest ;
and it is time that Australian self-interest
was recognised as the motive for Austra-
lians. We desire to remain Britain’s friendly
ally, but if this country is to prosper we
must put Australia First.
* * * *
There will be a struggle. The British-
born and the Australian-oorn British have
in their hands the machinery of govern-
ment. They have at back a
diplomacy fertile in the bribes which
attract the weak-minded. They have beneath
them manj 7 people willing to be deceived by
specious shibboleths, ready to be dazzled by
flags and fetishes, many who would sell their
birthright for a mess of bitter pottage. Let
Young Australia come to the front with the
motto of Australia for Australians. This
question of independent national develop-
ment overshadows all others. Freetrade
versus Protection is a dying cry. Parties
must fall into the world-old division of
Liberal against Tory, Progress against
Stagnation. Let Young Australia remember,
now and always, that the best basis of
Australian progress is an Australian patriot-
ism which asks of every politician, of every
administrator, of every movement, of every
law : How will Australia be profited 1 How
will Australia be served ?—and which puts
Australia Always First.
. «
The local opinion of Tommy Atkins (based chiefly
on numerous contingenters’ statements) is that his
language is filthy ; but that on the whole he is a
very decent fellow, and conducts himself as such.
Yet, how can you blame the Continent for believing
“monstrous calumnies” when Kipling is ac-
counted the exponent of Tommy’s morals? If
the tale seems steep—well, see what is said by the
Great English Poet, the darling of the Jingoes and
the Times. In the Barrack-Room Ballads Tommy
is disorderly and goes to cells for being “ Mad
drunk and resisting the Guard.” Tommy is a
thief-
Ow the loot!
Bloomin’ loot I
That’s the thing to make the boys get up an’ shoot .. .
An’ if you treat a nigger to a dose o’ cleanin’-rod
’E’s like to show you everything e’ owns . . .
You can mostly square a Sergint an’ a Quarter-master
too,
If you only take the proper way to go ; . . .
So ’ere’s good-luck to those that wears the Widow’s
clo’es,
An’ the Devil send ’em all they want o’ loot! . . .
Tommy’s inclinations are decidedly immoral—
Ship me somewhere east of Suez, where the best is like
the worst,
Where there are n’t no Ten Commandments . . .
Why ? Because, says Thomas—
We’re most of us liars, we ’re ’arf of us thieves, an’ the
rest are as rank as can be . . .
As to women—well, Tommy is no saint. Says he
by the mouth of his Prophet Kipling—
I've taken my fun where I’ve found it,
I’ve rogued an’ I’ve ranged in my time ;
I’ve ’ad my pickin’ o’ sweet-’earts,
An’ four o’ the lot was prime.
One was an ’airf-caste widow,
One was a woman at Prome,
One was the wife of a jemadar-sats.
An’ one is a girl at ’ome.
Then the Continent is told that Tommy has been
taking liberties with the Boer women, and the
Continent believes it. And, seeing that Budyard
is Kipling, and his “monstrous calumnies,”
printed in large editions, have raised him to the
pinnacle of Jingo fame —what else is the Continent
to do ?
Some of the Eng. reviews have been scolding
Henley for saying uncomplimentary things about
Stevenson, his protege and sometime friend. One
of them goes so far as to call H. (with pleasant alli-
teration) “ a literary leper.” The idea seems to be
that when a public man dies, his friends should
say nothing of him which is not eulogy. No
matter what false god he may be, exalted on no
matter what foolish pedestal, we should keep
silence and permit deceit to prosper. Well,
old Isaac Pitman taught us better in the
phonography primer. “ I may cuss Plato, I may
cuss Socrates,” said Major Veritas. And that is
right. You may cuss anybody you please in the
interests of truth and justice. De mortuis is a
stupid maxim. It is probably a remnant of the
tradition of ancestor-worship which we inherit
from stupid aboriginal forbears, trembling among
the superstitions of the race-dawn. Be a man dead
or living, there is no reason why public truth
(Should not be spoken of him, if public justice
demand speech. It can’t hurt the man who is
dead ; and it can’t hurt his friends who are living
unless they prefer rosy lies to russet verities. And
that preference puts them out of court as the
Lie’s shields and accomplices. Let us hug Truth,
even if her sword cuts our breasts. And De
mortuis nil nisi Verum.
“ A.M.” (a lady) writes—
I knew something of R. L. Stevenson in his Edinburgh
youth; and the three-lettered word, by which Henley
hinted that some described him, scarcely presents an
enigma. To his wholesome-minded, frank contemporaries
Stevenson was an “ ass ” ; his elders, with the leniency
that experience of life brings, shrugged their shoulders
and admitted that he was a “ puir creature.” A young
lady—of limited mental capacity—did describe him as a
“ very nice boy,” and is even known to have sat out
dances with him ; but then there were so few young men
in the ball-going clan of Edinburgh, and even she could
never succeed in reaching any high pitch of enthusiasm
for R.L.S. Ido not know that any young woman in
those days had ever the slightest desire to marry the
extremely plain Stevenson, for he was entirely devoid of
that fascination of dominant vitality which led ugly
Wilkes to declare that he was “ only half-an-hour behind
the handsomest man.” Besides, Stevenson did n.ot care
for the company of young women, and that was a sign
of his character. He was too egotistic, too interested
in himself, ever to “ fall in love ” ; but he liked elderly
women,#who petted and made much of him.
L. J. Brient, for ten years editor of Sydney
Daily Telegraph , faded quietly away to England
the other day. His sudden fall from power was the
biggest journalistic shock for many an Australian
day; and it gives fresh point to the journalistic
maxim, “ Never trust a board of directors.”
Brient trusted; he thought himself settled for
life; he held that he had acquired the art of
managing directors. About a year ago, when
the question of written engagements arose in
conversation, “I have no written engagement,”
said Brient; “ I never asked for one.” And
when someone pointed out the fate of his prede-
cessor Ward: “Yes,” said Brient; “but Ward
did not understand;” And now it seems that
Brient did not understand either. (And we see
that Heracles’exploit in killing the nine-headed
hydra was far more glorious than Perseus’; for
Medusa had but one head, however terrible.)
“ But if the worst comes to the worst,” said 8., “I
can always earn my salt as a reporter.” And again,
‘ ‘ I had three years in London, and when we came to
measure up—and this is not vanity—l found very
few men better than me.” But the years have
gone since then ; and at 45 (Brient’s age) one does
not find London the same as at 30. However:
good luck to him ! He made the Telegraph a
dashing, unscrupulous, clever journal; and re-
member this in his favour, that he was compelled
to feed the hydra which finally devoured him.
The vocal O’Sullivan, by the grace of Gab a,
“leading politician” in N. S. Wales, has had a
list of “the most beautiful aboriginal names”
prepared to confer upon new dredges and vessels
of that ilk. There are Wurtamurtah, Dooribang,
Timbrebunga, and a crowd of cacophonous
examples—salted with the remark that “the
aboriginals suffered at times from a disease very
like smallpox, called by them Galgala.” Appa-
rently the aboriginal disease is to be perpetuated
with the others—and we wonder We wonder
whether in a thousand years a new race will come
and build upon the ruins of our aboriginal civilisa-
tion, and discover that we suffered from a disease
called O’Sullivan, and declare it a “ most beautiful
name,” and call a flying-punt by the name. Even
that may be ; for sounding brass is more lasting
than many a monument.
d*
Furniss’s recent book of reminiscences quotes a
candid opinion—Alfred Harmsworth’s, apparently I
— re the lost enterprise of Lika Joko.
One of the youngest and most successful newspaper
proprietors called me a fool. I wrote and asked hipi why.
We had an interview. He said frankly, “ You are a fool,
in my opinion, for producing too good an article for the
money. Your staff is too good ; your printing is too
good ; your paper is too good. lam a success because 11
know where to buy paper cheap, and sell it for a profit. I■
have thirty publications, but their names, their contents,
writing, or art, I never think about, nor does the public
either. We ink something on the paper; and sell it at so
much a pound profit.”
“To ink something on the paper and sell it at so
much a pound profit ” —Journalism Up-to-Date.
(Historians please note.)
d*
In Edward Hyson’s The Gold-Seekers: a Story
of Waddy (Lond., Longmans), he cultivates once
more the garden of youthful reminiscence. The
story is simple and smoothly written, and will
please boyish readers as well as others. On the
whole, it hardly rises to the level of Dyson’s
excellent capacity ; but as a first novel it is not
without promise.
J*
Phil May's Annual might be stereotyped, so
little variety does he give us from year to year.
His work in the new number is not of his best;
and the literary contents are feeble. Have we
heard before the story of the “ fearfully groggy
old woman” who called on M. with the quff?tion :
“ Do you want any morals ? ”
J*
The Saturday Review —“ magni nominis umbra,”
as Mr. Lucan says—apparently endeavours to
revive its old tradition of “slashing articles.”
John Davidson is the last victim. We read that
the “ Ballad of a Nun ” was
perhaps the worst poem that ever won notoriety. It
was unreal and- unpleasant, it was medical rather than
poetic; a vulgarly nasty contribution to a singularly
jaundiced periodical of the decadents.
John Farrell, we remember, swore by the Nun
for at least three months. Then ? But the
merit of The Saturday's slashing hey-day Is, in
this: that the rhetoric was exaggerated, round a
heap of sound sense.
J*
Yet on another page the S.R. is pleased to print
reflections on Venice by Arthur Symons, one of
the chief of “the decadents.” He closes not
unimpressively, remembering his Pater—
Why is it then that the melancholy of Venice is the
most exquisite and alluring and the least distressing
thing in the world? It is because that melancholy is
no nearer to one’s heart than the melancholy in the face
of a portrait. It is the tender and gracious sadness of
that beautiful woman who leans her face on her hand in a
famous picture in the Accademia. The feast is over, the
wine still flushes the glass on the table, the little negro
strikes his lute, she listens to the song, her husband sits
beside her, proudly : something not in this world, a vague
thought, a memory, a forgetfulness, has possessed her
for the moment, setting those pensive lines about her
lips, which have just smiled, and which will smile again
when she has lifted her eyelids.
A.G.S.


NTDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
SVI‘DOUGALL BROS., 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Aerenta: 3NT.Z. L. &. 3Vd. A.. Go., LtdL. LOCAL AGENTS EVERYWHERE
WOOL
SEND
YOUR
WOOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
If you want to get the best possible resujts.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.
Wool and Produce Brokers.
Consolidated Charge!
for Selling Wool J
2s Per Cent.
f Includes all Charges excepting
\cartage from steamer’s wharf.
Eat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
BRAUN ORE SAMPLE-CRUSHER
and PULVERISER.
jk
Combination of a Jaw and Roll
Pulveriser working together.
May be operated by either hand or power.
Jaws, 3£ in. wide; Roll, 6 in. diameter; Belt
Wheel, 16 x 2j| in. Total Weight, 2 85tbs
—— ■ ■—
Write for Particulars to—
PARKE & LACY CO., Ltd.
60 Clarence-St., Sydney, n.s.w.
MINING ENGINEERS & MACHINERY
MERCHANTS.
HAVE THE
BEST.
m
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily operate 1, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR-
FOB CATALOGUES AND PABTIOULARS —•*
CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE PENCE
128 Franklin St., Melbourne ; 143 Susses: St., Sydney.
CO.
NEITHER CRACK
8°
5806
5807
c
BB
5808
NOR BURN.
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
OUARANTEE —Should any of our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pip* B Crack or Barn ■
GUARANTEE, snoui y Exchang;ed for it immediately on Application.
Sm nRY ALL Tobacconists. By Post, 1«. 2d.
Mick Simmons, haymarket, Sydney.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge s 3 Per Cent, to the Growers.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge Id. per lb. to the Buyers.
On Our Selection.” By “Steele Rudd.
WOMEN AND
WARNER’S
SAFE CURE.
The health of women is of supremo im-
portance. The daughter of to-day becomes
the wife of to-morrow, and it is abso-
lutely essential to the welfare of the race
that good health should be hers; good
health which brings happiness and en-
sures vigour in posterity. A woman’s
nervous system is very highly strung.
Her mechanism is far more delicate and
complex than that of a man, and there
is little to wonder at when it breaks down
under the continuous high pressure of
modern life.
Most women require some aid to enable
them to support the daily stress and
strain, and this aid is found in WARNER’S
SAFE CURE — a medicine wonderfully
adapted to their delicate organisation-
which has for twenty years secured the
grateful endorsement of women in all
walks of life in all parts of the civilised
world.
Read the following Letters:
“ Charlton,” George Street,
Norwood, S.A.
October 1, 1900.
Dear Sirs,— . ,
About seven years ago I contracted a severe
internal complaint, and was in a very critical
state. The doctor attending me told me that if I
lived'l should be a sufferer all my lifetime. His
treatment was quite useless in giving me relief.
After two or three years I got tired of paying
doctors’ fees for no benefit, and hearingof Warner’s
Safe Cure I gave it a trial. I took, in all, five
bottles, and am thankful to state I am perfectly
cured. The medical man was genuinely surprised
at such a wonderful result. lam now as well as
it is possible to be, and give Warner’s Safe Cure
the whole credit for accomplishing what doctors
deemed impossible. Hoping that ladies, suffer-
ing as I did, will profit, I am writing to you now.
My mother considered that her life was saved by
the use of Warner’s Safe Cure in a somewhat
similar complaint. } ANNIE HARRIS.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.
8 Carlton-street, Prahan, Vic.,
March 12, 1901,
Dear Sirs, — , _
I am pleased to report the benefit I derived
from the use of Warner’s Safe Cure. After many
years of pain and suffering from kidney and liver
complaint, I, who was accustomed .to minister to
others, was brought to a bed of sickness myself.
The doctors could give me no hope of relief or
recovery, and said that I had but a short time to
live. I tried various advertised remedies, but all
failed to give me relief until I tried Warner’s Safe
Cure. From the first bottle I began to improve
in health. The pains gradually left me. I con-
tinued to take the medicine for some time, until I
was perfectly cured, and sound in body and mind.
I may state that the doctors were more than sur-
prised to see me up and about again. I have
heard of many other cases during my professional
career, which were in like manner cured by the use
of Warner’s Safe Cure.
Yours obediently,
EMMA DARVELL,
Ladies’ Nurse.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.
Broken Hill, N.S.W., October 11, 1900.
Gentlemen, — _ , .
I have great pleasure in testifying to the good
results I have obtained from the use of Warner’s
Safe Cure. For some time I was suffering great
agony with terrible pains in my side and around
my body. After trying several remedies, which
failed, I used Warner’s Safe Cure, and am happy
to state that I am now quite restored to health.
You may make this public and accept my thanks
for the good results I obtained.
(Mrs.) ELIZA BUTLER.
Messrs. H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd.
Morewell, Victoria,
JDecember 8, 1900.
Dear Sirs, —
I am pleased to be able to testify to the great
benefit I derived from the use of Warner s Safe
Cure when suffering from insomnia and rheumatic
pains in my body and legs. I have only used a
few bottles, and the results have been simply
marvellous. Yours truly,
(Mrs.) ISABEL FRASER.
Messrs. 11. 11. Warner and Co., Ltd.
Fitzroy Street, Tamworth, N.S.W.,
September 25, 1900.
Dear Sirs
I owe my life principally to Warner’s Safe
Cure. I suffered for years in New Zealand from
bronchitis and lung complaint, and have been
in the District Hospital in Wellington three
different times. At last I was ordered to a warm
climate, but I still suffered much with pains in
my chest and back. One day I read a pamphlet,
and thought I would try Warner’s Safe Cure.
After I had taken the first bottle I found myself
stronger, and continued till I had used seven
bottles. I then came out to N.S.W., and am now
in perfect health. I earn my living by selling a
hair restorer of my own recipe and make, and am
walking about most of the day. lam well known
in the district, and I always recommend Warners
Safe Cure.
Yours thankfully,
(Mas.) TERESA NOLAN.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.
100 Chestnut Street, Richmond, Vio.,
March 11, 1901.
Eor years X was a great sufferer from liver com-
plaint, which caused severe pains in my back and
sides and great mental depression. I was not able
to follow my calling. Hearing on reliable
authority of the beneficial effects of Warner’s
Safe Cure in kidney and liver complaints I gave
it a trial. From the first I derived great benefit,
and was ultimately completely cured. About
twelve years ago iny husband used arner s Safe
Cure when suffering from weak and bleeding kid-
neys. Two bottles restored him to health and
strength. Yours truly> j ANE DAY.
34 Carrington Street, Sydney,
July 31, 1900.
Some time ago I was suffering from severe
pains in my back and kidneys, and being tired of
medical treatment, which did me no good, I, on
the recommendation of a friend, tried Warner s
Safe Cure. Three bottles and a half cured me,
and I have never been troubled since.
Yours obediently,
(Mrs.) MARY J. FIELD.
113 Edward Street, E. Brunswick, Yic.
April 30, 1901.
Dear Sire,— ... ~ .
I have pleasure m giving evidence as to the
efficacy of Warner’s Safe Cure. For many years
I suffered from kidney and liver complaint. Fre-
quently I was quite prostrated and unable to do
my household work, my whole system being
affected, especially my head. The doctor who
treated me did me no good. I was advised to try
Warner’s Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills,
After taking a few bottles of the medicine I felt
quite a different woman, and am now in the en-
joyment of as good health as I ever had in my
life.
Yours truly, (Mrs.) E. NELSON.
Messrs. H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd.
“ Camrock,” Elwood Street,
North Brighton, Yio.
April 29, 1901.
Sirs —•
I ’have found Warner’s Safe Cure to be a most
wonderful medicine for giving health and strength
when suffering from that languid and tired feeling
which most women are subject to, and which
make 3 one unfit to attend to household duties,
or to any other business. In my case, Warner’s
Safe Cure had an immediate and lasting beneficial
effect. I strongly recommend Warner’s Safe Cure
to any ladies who may suffer in like manner, feel-
ing sure that they, too, will derive great benefit
from taking a course of this medicine.
Yours truly, (Mrs.) E. BADE.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.
Findon, Adelaide, S. A.,
October 2, 1900.
years ago I was a continual sufferer
from kidney complaint. I was ever free
from shivering attacks and severe pains in my
back and head. I was not able to go about my
duties, and was frequently confined to my bed.
Reading of some wonderful results brought about
by Warner’s Safe Cure, I gave it a trial. I felt
much benefit from the first bottle. After taking
half-a-dozen bottles, I was a new woman. I feel
quite sure that Warner’s Safe Cure saved mv life.
Yours truly, (Mrs.) ELLEN RELF.
Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., Ltd.
The secret of the remarkable effects of Warner’s Safe Cure is that it causes the liver and kidneys to become Perfectly healthy.
When these vital organs are doing their work thoroughly, all poisonous acids and other waste products of
naturally, and such diseases as Indigestion, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache
Sciaticaf Anaemia, General Debility, Blood Disorders, Gravel and Bladder Troubles can no longer exist, as they are all caused by
the presence in the blood of these impurities.


;<
Address s Care
US ALL’S
GEO. ADAMS, Hotsart.
HOBART 0. January 29.
50,00© Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
above.
.shares in the
Name
Acldi •ess
£
NEWMARKET H. March 1.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
N am c
Address
ATTSTEALIAN C. (SPECIAL) March 10.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL,
Please allot me shares in the
above.
Name.
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


EVERY WOMAN
Will find a remedy—safe, sure,
lasting— for constipation, im-
poverished blood, and all irre-
gularities of the system, in
SEIGEI2
Syrup
Misa E. L. Fisher, 373, Bourke St.,
Darlingfaurst, N.S.W., says:—“Four
years ago I suffered greatly from Anse-
mia and Nervous Prostration occa-
sioned by a. severe shock. My appetite
failed, and I became listless, weak,
and subject to dizziness. Indeed, my
health—formerly robust—was com-
plelely broken down, .until my
brother induced me to take
Seigel’s Syrup. Each dose of
the Syrup-seemed to infuse new
health and strength into my
body, and in a few months my
health was thoroughly re-
established.”
June 26th, 1901.
The morning of life is the time of
abundance, profusion, strength, vigor,
growth. When the sun begins to sink,
when the midday of life is past, then
the hair begins to fade and the silvery
gray tells of approaching age.
Sunrise or sunset ? Which shall
your mirror say ? If the former, then
it is rich and dark hair, long and heavy
hair; if the latter, it is short and fall-
ing hair, thin and gray hair.
The choice is yours,—for
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
always restores color to gray hair,
stops falling of the hair, and makes
the hair grow long and heavy.
This is something you have been
looking for, isn’t it ? And it is some-
thing you can have confidence in, for
it is no experiment; people have been
using it for half a century. We do not
claim it will do everything, but we do
claim it is the best hair preparation
ever made.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
SMOKE
cS^
THE
mn
GBD
X
mn
INSIST ""
having this Brand
and no other.
AGENTS—
JULIUS SOLD SCHMIDTS. CO.
231 Clarence Street, Sydney.
i
it
Bw'oe
*
Beware !! ‘
OF l/AITAriONS
ñ
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
S3J- per Half-dozen, free by post thro ay ho at
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE
Australian Mutual Provident Society
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
Established 1849.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold of
Leasehold City or Suburban
Preoarties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per cent,
of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
ńm
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 109 r
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY,
a® - Send for a
Catalogue.
t*
mm
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers ot Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest
H. HIO.IER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works :MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY,
Buvers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
bv return post; Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
Sf
m
m
I
m
&
"'lllltt
WHOLESALE
Distri buti ng Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & GO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia—
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland —
Thos. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Phllp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin & Co.
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christchurch.
MARTELLS
“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
“Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
The Lancet.
nbm
mM
■krM
H?
SS'th
Hi
m
3
300 K.W. Three-phase Generator
GANZ* Co.
DYNAMOS, MOTORS.
EVERYTHING ELECTRIC.
Expert Advice Free.
Sole Agents for Australasia.)
Th Austral Otis Engineering Go. Ltd.
SOUTH MELBOURNE-
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
Steele Rudd.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf Company
When In town, pay ns a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY ? If so, send for our Price List. - You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, ±5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, A 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Orde'r. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.— Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for lest
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15
cent more for your requirements-
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Rodforn, SYDNEY
OUK SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
nb
Delirered at any Wharf er
*.S.W. liaihrajN, Station
£lO 10/-
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Rolling In.”
See the gray Dawn breaking slowly
With a sullen sky above her,
And a white mist hanging lowly
Over sodden leaves a-drip ;
And the creek’s bed running over
Where the yellow flood is rolling
With the ten-knot current bowling
Underneath the Timber Tip !
And a-glint with rain-flecks shining
Where the laggard light is breaking—
See, five hundred logs reclining
All in stately rank a-row ;
And behind —their stations taking —
Twenty sodden souls a-shiver,
With their pulses all a-quiver
And their score of hearts aglow !
Pass the word—twelve feet, and rising !
Stand by—knock the chocks from under
Heave ! —and twenty shoulders prising
At the signal, “ Let her go ! ”
Break the level lines asunder
And five hundred logs a-flashing
Hurtling through the air—and crashing
Cleave the seething flood below !
Oh ! there’s music in the ringing
Of the yellow pines a-clashing,
And a merry lilt a-singing
In the lapping of the tide,
When the rain in torrents dashing
Scuds before the gale a-blowing
With a roaring flood a-flowing
And a golden freight a-ride !
N.s.w.
A. CAR-B.
To the Girls of the Bush.
The sun on the sliprails has faded,
But still in sweet memory bide
The ready brown hands that have aided,
And lips that have lured us aside.
Oh ! girls from the North of the Murray !
Oh ! girls from the Bogan and Bland !
Oh ! sun-caressed maids of Macquarie 1
The laughter and light of the land !
Light-footed you led our bush dances,
Light-hearted you rode with our best,
And wove with a smile the sweet fancies
That robbed us of reason and rest !
Your “coo-ee” dies down on the ranges,
Your musical step on the floor.
And Life, with its chances and changes,
Has parted our pathways once more !
Unspoiled of rich raiment arid jewel
For dames of the city designed,
You learned, all the same, to be cruel
In beauty that meant to be kind !
Bash maidens ! Demure little misses,
And heart-stirring hoydens and bold !
Bush maidens ! I blow you warm kisses
From lips that are lonely and cold !
u.k.
WILL OGILVIE.
On tie Night-Shift.
All the world is hushed in slumber
Save the stampers’ monotone,
And the stars that none can number
Smile serenely on their throne.
Now the moon, three-quarters missing,
Peeps above the “ Harveys ” far,
While the Southern Cross is kissing
Farewells to the evening star.
Curlews scream from oak and yarran,
Fireflies flash bright amethyst;
Mountains bleak and ridges barren
Hide their heads in fleecy mist.
Hear celestial music calling,
Siren-voiced, o’er oceans deep !
And the thudding meteors falling
Guard the vault where heroes sleep.
When night-fancies sweet come o’er us,
Bringing ease from constant pain,
Would we wake to cares that bore us—
Wake and never dream again ?
Build your towers in old Hispania,
Let the caustic cynics sneer ;
What though churlish churchmen ban you,
Have your joys and pleasures here !
What of future can they tell us—
Can they penetrate the skies ?
All the ills that e’er befell us
Are as nothing to their lies.
When a stone’s thrown in the river
Ripples spread and disappear,
Bubbles shine, and then for ever
Vanish into atmosphere.
Life is short; but long is Sorrow,
Cunningly she welds her chain ;
Drain the goblet! for to-morrow
There may be no draught to drain.
Gay the fledgling magpie flutters,
Minahs peep from pine and gum,
And the raucous jackass stutters
Warning that the Day has come !
KELPIE.


SUNLIGHT
SOAP
IS REALLY
* THE CHEAPEST
IN THE END.
Linens, Cottons and Woollens are soon reduced
to holes tvhen washed with ordinary soap contain-
ing alkali in a free state.
SUNLIGHT SOAP does not contain any alkali
in a free state and is really the cheapest in the
end, as all articles washed with it last much
longer than if washed with ordinary soap.
ttt)
Quality, Value, and Durability Guaranteed.
Our QUERY RING
(Note of Interroga-
tion). 15c., set with
real Pearls 35/-;
18c., set with finest
Diamonds,
£B, £9 10s, and £ll.
All Goods Post
Free.
Send for our
Freetrade Catalogue.
Solid Gold and 5
Turquoise, 10/6 ;
Opal and Garnet,
12/6.
OUR QUERY SOARF-PIN.
15c. Gold Set with real Pearls, 25/-
15c. Gold, set with finest Diamonds, £1(
) 10s.
OUR QUERY BROOCH.
Four times the size of Pin sketch. Solid Gold,
set with Pearls or Pearls and Turquoise, 21/-.
18c. Novelty CROSS
RING, 21/-; with
7 Lovely Diamonds,
£5 5s and £6 15s.
Pearls or Turquoise
and Pearls, 3s/-.
Art Jewellers and Opticians, 90 King Street, Sydney.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK; Price, 4s. 6d.
mnb
Tails. Plaits.
FRINGES, Best Natural Curly Hair, 3/6, 5/6,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each. TAlLS'and PLAITS,
20in. Ion?, 5/6, ; Extra Thick, 7/6; 24in.,
10/6; Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz.
Don’t be misled. Our Plaits and Tails are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address”:— W. H. WIGZELL,
110 WILLTAM-ST. , Corner of Palmer-st.,
Sydney. Cable trams will stop at door. All
work guaranteed Illustrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention given to coun-
try orders. Wigs made on shortest notice.
RHEUMALGIA
lhe new cure for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Gout, Sciatica,
■ Neuralgia, and similar ailments
IS
a lotion compounded from herbs
PURELY AUSTRALIAN.
Ss. 6d. POST FREE.
Rheumalgia Remedy Co., Bathurst,
Wholesale depot for N.S. W. and Q.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
Brandy
disarms
Influenza
of
all
its
Dangerous
After
Effects.
THE ~~~
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
a
**i
*
w
C 2
o
Yes! Yes!
«ji? ever fiddl ® r J^ n , exa^ tl J:. the sad lowing of a cow, but he can’t draw a drop O' milk from his
fiddle; even a fiddle has its limitations Nothing stimulates imitation like a really good s fuide ; yet there
are people who try to induce good wear from cheap imitations. *
JL C 1 n ’-f b 3 d °" e 1 , Do y ® **s?“ fi £ s from thistles, or get a ss. dinner for half-a-crown ? Nay, nay, Simonides,
tne imitation is only perfect till you come to the milking, and it’s the milk you want—not the imitation.
Judged by its known wear
RUBEROID
ROOFING
JP n rt M^ le Koofingmoney fan buy Judged by its daily output, it is steadily, but surely, winning its way into" general favour
as a really cheap Building Material. Judged by its appearance after severe wear, it is much more serviceable than any of us believed when
it was first put on the Australian market.
“New York, July 19, 1901.
“When the Pan-American Exposition
opened, P. and B. Ruberoid Roofing
was on eleven buildings, including the
United States Government Building, on
which upwards of 20,000 square yards
were used. They are constantly having
trouble with the cheaper roofings. These
are being torn off in many instances, and
Ruberoid substituted.
“ ARTHUR W. TRENCH."
[Cable.]
“ New York, Oct 12th, 1901.
“ Ruberoid received Gold Me I*l over
all competitors at the Pan-American
Exposition, Buffalo, N.Y.”
“New York, Nov. 9th, 1901.
“ It will interest you to know that, in
addition to the Gold Medal (the highest
award for Roofing) which was awarded to
Ruberold at the Pan-American Exhibit
tion, we have news to-day that the
highest award (Gold Medal i has also
been given to this Company for Insulat-
ing Paper, thus establishing beyond
question the superiority of P and B
Ruberold and P and B Insulating
Paper over all others manufactured in
the United States.
“ RALPH L. SHAINYVOLD."
Want further Information?
Write for CATALOGUE
STATE AGENTS—
Christchurch (N.Z.), Messrs. Edward Iteece b Sons.
WH.MKOTON (N.Z.), Mr. James W. Jack.
Beisbans (Q.), Messrs. E. Kich & Co., Ltd.
Adelaide (S.A.), Messrs. A. W. Sandford & Co.
Melbourne (Vic.), Messrs. Brooks, Robinson & Co„ Ltd.
Fremantle (W.A.), Messrs. J. M. Ferguson, Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
Australasia—
E. RICH & e©., LTD
Sydney and
Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vot. 23.—N0. 1145.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 25, 1002.
Prick sp.
MR. REID SPENDS MOST OF HIS LEISURE FISHING.-(Daily Paper.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• P ®
Half-yearly ... ... ...
Quarterly ... ... ••• 0 6 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and JMaoriland.
Tn consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postape on Inter provincial N e.wspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
■SI, with 2s. 2d. added .for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless. the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of 1 \d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease o Tin some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —ljd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you inay ■pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, of stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
Archibald.
. Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents 'of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor ivill carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those fixating with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To A rnateurs in ftlaelc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line 'or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street <Se Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. — L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., S Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 ITout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency
Rhodesia.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 25, 1902.
The German Fury.
This House takes its first opportunity, in view of the
despatch of the Federal contingent to South Africa, to
express its indignation at the baseless charges made
abroad against the honor of the people, and the humanity
and valor of the soldiers of the Empire.
This House affirms the readiness of Australia to give
all requisite aid to the Mother Country in order to bring
the present war to an end. —Resolution •passed by Federal
House of Representatives.
Last week the Federal Parliament rose in
a moment of excitement and passed the
above resolutions by a large majority. In
the course of the debate the reason of this
temporary burst of indignation was fully
explained. The German press has recently
been saying things. It called the British
army in South Africa a “gang of thieves,”
or long German words to that effect, and
cast other reflections upon it, including
charges of rape and wholesale barbarity,
and in the German Reichstag Joseph
Chamberlain —he of the eyeglass and the
orchid —was alluded to as a villain of the
worst order. Also, some German paper or
papers of no great importance expressed the
opinion that “the British colonies” were
tired of the war, and weary of contingenting
generally. Germany, certainly, with the
record of its doings in Poland still on view,
and with its hideous methods of maintaining
military discipline even in time of peace, is
a country which has no need to be excited
in the cause of humanity, and the Prussian
junker, at all events, has a tendency to be
an uncivil German at all times, whatever
other Germans may be like. Chancellor
Von Bulow threw a limited quantity of oil
on the troubled waters, and in the Reichstag
he urged his agitated countrymen to
moderate their language; but his apology
was apparently not sufficiently abject, and
his perfunctory way of dealing with the
matter roused Britain, if the cablegrams are
to be credited, to temporary hysteria. Aus-
tralia took the hysteria at second-hand, and
as a result this country is sending away a
new contingent of 1000 men, and its Federal
Parliament has “ resolved ” as above.
* * * *
So far Australia appears to be needlessly
harassed over this matter. There is wild
talk, for example, of a general boycott of
German goods by way of hitting the empire
of William the Astonishing a deadly blow in
the eye, and bringing the Prussian junker to
reason. If such a thing does happen, and
the boycott is serious enough to make
William’s empire really angry, the probable
result will be a boycott or customs prohi-
bition of our goods in Germany by way of
retaliation. And as Germany buys much
more from the seven States of Australasia
than they buy from Germany, the balance in
our favor being some £700,000 a year, the
loss would be all on our side. There is
nothing which this country supplies to Ger-
many which our restless rival, Argentina, can’t
furnish just as well. Australasia has to ex-
port vastly more than it imports in order
that the surplus may cover the interest on
its foreign debts, and it can’t afford to
kick one of its few good customers
very hard, merely because that customer’s
opinion of the British army is low, and
of Joseph Chamberlain still lower. And
Great Britain can’t do any serious damage to
Germany by a trade boycott either. In 1899
—the latest year for which the writer has
full details available—Britain bought a little
over £30,000,000 worth of goods from Ger-
many (German goods and other goods which
reached it via Germany, all included). And
Britain sold to Germany (including British
and Irish produce, and foreign produce
bought by British merchants and re-sold)
nearly £38,000,000 worth. India also buys
about £1,000,000 worth of goods annually
from Germany and sells to Germany
about £5,000,000 worth. A boycott of
German goods by Britain, or by Australasia,
and a retaliatory measure by Germany,
would leave the British Empire a heavy
loser. Germany is one of the props of
British commerce and industry, and the prop
can’t be kicked away with impunity. And
while the hostile German helps Britain to
the extent of £8,000,000 a year, and India
to the extent of £4,000,000 a year, and Aus-
tralasia to the extent of £700,000 a year, the
friendly American takes £90,000,000 a year
away from Britain by selling much to her
and buying practically nothing. The
American speaks kindly about Joe Cham-
berlain —but it is an awful price to pay for
a few kindly remarks about Joe Chamber-
lain.
• • * *
And there are excuses to be made, even
for the German. The language he used
about Britain may have been bad enough,
but, after all, it is hardly any worse than the
language that Reid and M‘Millan and Joe
Cook and other N.S.W. politicians, also a
multitude of N.S.W. papers, have been
using for years and years past about Victoria
—also, to a less extent, about the other Aus-
tralian States. Victoria is part of the
Empire just as much as England is, and the
mean grudging abuse which the dominant
importing gang of Sydney has heaped upon
it so consistently is just the same kind of
offence that the German is charged with.
Britain is hated by many foreign States
by reason of its wealth. Victoria, ever
since that mere fly-speck on the map
of Australia made such astonishing progress
that its industries are far ahead of
those of the adjacent State—a State which is
twice its age and four times its size, and far
better supplied with natural resources—
has been, in the mouths of Sydney poli-
ticians, a place whose very name was
hardly to be mentioned without a sneer or a
curse. A Federal Ministry which is, in the
main, a N.S.W. Ministry, should not be so
grievously shocked at strong language
directed against one portion of the Empire,
considering what their own State has done
in the same direction. And if the language
of one or two German papers has been
violent, to say the least, the Federal
Ministry, being largely a Sydney Ministry,
should recollect the kind of remarks a
German may occasionally find in the gentle
columns of Truth. Chancellor von Bulow
has not yet made Truth an international
question, but even that may come.
* • * *
No person in his senses imagines that the
British army—the alleged “ gang of thieves ”
—is worse than the average of armies
indeed it is better than most. It is not
at all like the awful semi-British army with
which John Company looted India in days of
old. But, at the same time, the British Jingo
bard of the moment, Kipling, who is so
much quoted just now that even the Germans
must be well acquainted with him, describes
the British army as a gang of thieves. He
puts into his soldiers’ mouths, over and over
again, the prideful statement that they are
going after loot and women, and Kipling’s
soldiers don’t profess to be too particular
.about how they get either the loot or the
women. The Australian contingents have
formed part of the British army through
most of the present war, and almost every
Australian paper has published letters from
contingenters in which they talked of
the loot they stole from farm - houses
occupied mostly by defenceless women.
Some of them went further, and declared
with pride that they and their com-
rades habitually mutilated their dead
enemies, and were gathering teeth and
other fragments as souvenirs. The hor-
rible tale told by one contingenter, who
said that he and his fellow-soldiers of
the British forces had cut off the
fingers of Boers killed in battle, and stuck
biscuits in their mouths by way of ghoulish
mockery, was published as solemn fact in an
Australian paper; and an Australian civic
functionary publicly exhibited alleged bits of
dead Boer in a frame, and made a speech
about them with unconcealed pride. Who
can expect a German to have a high opinion
of an army in which, according to the
accounts of its own soldiers, not only is
thieving a matter of everyday occurrence,
but dead enemies are dishonored and
mangled ? And when the German read that
this was done in a force commanded by
British officers, what view was he likely to
take of the British forces in general ? Also
what view was he likely to take of Cham-
berlain, who is always presented before the
world as the man who is running the war —
this kind of war.
* * » *
In all human probability, many of the
loathsome statements made by Australian
contingenters about themselves and their
comrades in the British service were mere
Australian “blow” of a particularly nasty
order, and had no foundation in fact. But
the German can’t be expected to comprehend
the intricacies of the Australian joke. There
are many Germans in Australia, and it is
impossible to suppose that they didn’t send
back to their old friends in the Fatherland
some of the dreadful published letters of the
hilarious Australian contingenter. These
friends probably thought that, when the sol-
diers not only admitted to wholesale thievery,
but also to barbarous mutilation of the dead,
and spoke of it almost with pride, as if it
was a thing rather to be esteemed than
otherwise in a force commanded by British
officers, and when no Australian Parliament
or politician and not one Australian daily
paper repudiated the gruesome thing as a
gross slander on the army and on
the character of the Empire—well, they
probably thought that even worse -lay behind,
for the bitterest cynic seldom tells the whole
unpleasant truth of himself. Nothing the
Germans have said against the British army
in South Africa exceeds in grossness the
things that were said about it, or a part of
it, in Australian contingenters’ letters to
their relatives ; and the relatives handed the
letters to the papers as things they were
proud of ; and the papers published them in
the same spirit. And as Premier Barton
and his colleagues uttered no word of repro-
bation when these statements were made
about a British force by their own people, it
is childish to grow so furious when the Ger-
mans say things that are really no worse.
The Bulletin can’t believe that half these
stories were true, but that makes no dif-
ference in the situation. When Australia
made no attempt to refute such hideous
calumnies on a British army the stories
passed for true. Australia is the last place
on earth which has a right to complain of
any other community speaking in slanderous
terms of a British army. Almost the worst
slanders certainly the earliest—started
here, and were allowed to grow here.
* * * *
And . for the rest, the world probably
still thinks that Australia, at all events, is
dead tired of the war. If it knows the cir-
cumstances, it will probably have a suspicion
that it was more or less tired all along. Aus-
tralia raised its little force only by paying
the men better wages than the bulk of them
can now earn in ordinary pursuits —much
better, in many cases, when the rations and
the loot (if the contingenters’ letters home
spoke the truth about the loot) are con-
sidered. The British Government could
have hired good serviceable mercenaries, who
wouldn’t write disastrous letters home, for
less money, and when the man who is
devoted to the empire wants (or, at least,
receives) as much money to induce him to
fight for the empire as would almost suffice
to hire, for the same fighting purpose, two
men who don’t care a straw for the
empire, it is a curious proof of loyal
enthusiasm, to say the least. And amid
all the alleged devotion to the empire and
readiness to make sacrifices on its behalf,
not one Australian Premier—not even the
one who was moA desperately pressed for
money—dared, for the sake of his precious
billet, propose to levy even a small tax to
pay for the campaign. In almost every
State the cost was added, directly or in-
directly, to the floating debt, and left for
posterity to pay. If Australia and Tasmania
had made, in proportion to their population,
the same effort that Britain did, they would
have sent nearly 25,000 men to the war ;
they would have procured these men at about
2s. or 2s. 6d. a day; and they would have
added 6d. in the £ to the income-tax to pay
the account. If anything like that had been
done then there would be little doubt that
Australia was not tired of the war ; as it is,
the question is still quite an open one. And
certainly the aspersion of weariness in ill-
doing is not cleared away by the decision of
the Federal Government that another 1000
men may go if they get better pay than they
could earn by not going, and if Britain finds
the money. There may be real enthusiasm
behind, but the tired and perfunctory per-
mitting of somebody else to go at somebody
else’s expense can hardly be called an out-
ward manifestation of it.
Landlordism in Australia.
That the blight of landlordism is rapidly spread*
ing in Australia, and reproducing here the same
conditions which have depopulated the rural dis*
tricts of Ireland, Scotland, and England, is plain
to even the unobservant travellerin thecountry. To
those who dwell for any length of time in the
agricultural centres, the conviction is forced home
that, without strenuous and prompt remedies,
whole areas must soon pass completely out of cul-
tivation. The causes which drove the crofters
out of Scotland, the peasant farmers out of Eng*
land and Ireland, are actively at work in all the
States of Australia. Rack-renting of the familiar
Irish type is to be met with in almost every
district, and, with it, its inevitable consequences—
the impoverishment of the soil, the driving of the
farming population to the towns, and the loss to
the community of that most valuable element, the
yeoman farmer.
* * * *
In the early days—the days of the convicts, and
of Government anxiety to promote “ free settle-
ment” —large areas of agricultural land in the
vicinity of the big water-courses and of probable
cities were granted for little or nothing to soldiers,
sailors, convict-floggers, officials of all sorts, to
private immigrants from Europe, to public
servants who had taken part in the work of ex-
ploring and surveying the new continent, to
syndicates eager to grasp for a low price, or for no
price at all, areas of fertile land equal in extent to
principalities. Thus, “ the eyes were picked out ”
of Australia.
* * ■ * *
In some cases these granted areas passed out of
the hands of the original holders and were
gradually split up. More often they passed from
father to son, or remained in the hands of the
syndicate, and to-day are locked up against set-
tlement or worked by tenant farmers, who are
bond slaves to their landlords, who toil merely for
leave to live, and who exhaust both the land and
their own lives to enrich the owner of the soil —in
many cases an absentee. That is the history in
brief, and in general terms, of the agricultural
districts around Bathurst, and Goulburn, and
Tamworth, on the South Coast, and in the Hunter
River district in N.S.W., and it is the history,
too, of the rural settlements in many parts of
Victoria, Tasmania, and Queensland.
* * ♦ *
The incidents vary; the main facts are unvarying.
In one case the accident that a man happened to
be Deputy-Governor of a colony for a few days
gave him a claim to a huge land grant (some
200,000 acres), which his descendants hold to this
day. In other cases a syndicate, for a few pounds,
acquired a territory rather than an area, which
it now holds in insolent defiance of the public
weal, locked up against all settlement, resolute to
exact a bribe of the noblest magnitude before
allowing the plough to turn a single sod. In yet
other instances the construction of some little
public work earned for a man a great expanse of
land whiten his heirs now hold and let out on rack-
renting principles. These are the variants of the
origin of the evil of landlordism ; the results are
always identical. Either the land is held abso-
lutely against settlement, or it is let to tenants on
short leases, and on such terms of rental as devote
almost the whole profit of farming to the
landlord and leave to the tenant but a
bare living. In this drought-cursed conti-
nent, the lot of even the freehold farmer is
hard enough. It is with difficulty that he wrests
her grudged gifts from the reluctant earth.
Drought, bush-fires, rabbits, dust-storms, insect-
pests besiege him as he works through the flaming
hours, and unlucky Chance is always ready to
snatch away the fruit of his labors. The case of
the tenant farmer in a district where the land-
lords work on “ commercial principles ” is abso-
lutely hopeless. A poor season puts him in debt;
a rare good season only means that he can manage
to pay up his landlord and partially clear his
store account. When, finally, the plough-handle
drops from his gnarled hands, and he sinks down
to enrich the soil which he has tilled, he may
have won wealth for others but never anything
but the privilege to labor for himself. His place
is. taken by another victim of landlordism, and
his children scatter to the towns, where there is
some hope of a life which is not all labor.
» * * a
The effect of the system on the individual is
accompanied by a parallel effect on the soil. It
soon shares the hunger and the harsh misery of
the tenant. Since the rent must be found, and
the rent is graded on the highest productive power
of the soil, that crop which is likely to pay best
for the season is sown. Tlius around Bathurst
wheat has been cropped from the same fields year
after year until they are almost exhausted and will
produce a crop only under absolutely favorable
climatic conditions. Soon, if present circum-
stances continue, they will produce no crop and
pass out of cultivation, used up by the greed of
the owner and the forced greed of the tenant.
Bathurst landlordism has in its development pro-
duced the Chinese tenant. Fields which in Euro-
pean hands could not pay the rent and allow a
tenant to live, even in the most miserly fashion,
are cultivated by Chinese whose standard of living
enables them to meet the exactions of the
proprietor. *
* * « » •
There is no sense in blaming individual land-
lords alone for this state of affairs. They do but as
their neighbors do, and as they have been taught by
Irish, English, and Scotch examples. They act
in what they consider to be the best business
manner to secure the best dividends out of their
property. That their policy, even from a business
point of view, is short-sighted and ultimately
disastrous they cannot perceive, no more than the
sweating slop-manufacturer can see how great an
evil to the community is his desire for the biggest
dividend in the shortest possible time. But the
evil is so great as to demand immediate remedy. It
affects a very large proportion of the agricultural
lands which are in easy communication with the
big towns, and it threatens at an early date to
drive those areas out of cultivation altogether.
The following are some facts as to landlordism
in the South Coast (N.S.W.) district, to illustrate
not an unusually harsh system, but one which is
in many respects better than those ruling in other
parts of Australia. Other districts may be dealt
with later on.
* » * •
The vast Berry estate on the South Coast of
N.S.W. was originally a land grant in return for
services rendered, and once embraced an area
stretching along the coast some 15 miles and in-
land a considerable distance. The towns of Berry
Nowra, Gerringong, Toolijooa, and Jasper's Brush
have been built within this area, which is mostly
devoted to dairy farming. Its proximity to the
Sydney market (Berry is only 84 miles from
Sydney), and to the South Coast coal-mining
centres, .makes the area a highly favorable one
for farming. A large portion of it still remains
in the hands of one, or rather two, people—Dr.
Hay and the trustees of the Berry Estate Dr'
Hay and Mr. James Norton, M.L.C. The
original tenants of the Berry Estate found much


of their land in its “prairie” state. It had to be
fenced and cleared for grazing purposes. Home-
steads were erected, and the landlord gener-
i. • j con tributed to the cost of these —one-
third of the total sum ! The money for the other
improvements came from the tenant. And,
of course, all improvements belonged absolutely to
the landlord. No leases were given, and the land
was held on yearly tenancy. It was possible,
therefore, for a tenant, when he had finished
clearing, fencing, and building upon an area, to find
himself dispossessed almost immediately, and to
lose all the monejr and toil sunk in improvements.
But the commercial opportunities offering by such
conditions do not seem to have been taken full
advantage of by the landlord. Tenure seems to
have been seldom disturbed, and rents were fairly
moderate. When Dr. Hat came in as manager of
the estate before Mr. Berry’s death rents were
generally raised, and a system of lease for five or
seven years instituted. On Mr. Berry’s death,
the Berry Trust was formed. Rents were again
raised by some 30 per cent, in most cases and
seven years’ leases granted. Those leases having
now expired, rents are again being generally
raised, and notices to quit served on those who
refuse to agree to the increases. A typical in-
stance (proportional and not exact figures given):
Some 30 years ago a small farm was rented by one
farmer for £52 a year; the land was practically
unimproved and had no decent dwelling. A
homestead was built by the tenant and many
other improvements made, and afterwards the
rent Was raised to £IOO a year. The next in-
crease was to £144 a year, and now it is sought to
increase the rent to £166 a year. There is an option
of purchase but the price asked is such that the
interest on the purchase money would very nearly
equal the increased rent.
* * * *
The effect of the policy is that around Gerring’ong
the tenant-farmer works without pleasure in the
present or hope in the future. He wrests a mere
laborer’s wage, or less, out of the land, by toiling
from dawn to dark. The land suffers as it is over-
worked and overstocked. Trades-people suffer
because the over-burdened tenant is often unable
to pay his debts, and, when disaster comes to him,
the landlord has the first claim on his possessions.
About Berry, where Dr. Hay is sole landlord, con-
ditions are a little better; but there exists there
the same state of things in the main. Short
leases, no tenant right in improvements, and con-
stant reappraisement of rents, leave the tenant
absolutely at the mercy of the landlord.
* * * *
Recent increases in the rentals have brought the
matter of this South Coast estate prominently
before the public; and some of the tenants are
besieging the Pacific Ocean with their complaints.
But what avail grumblings against the landlord,
or pleadings to him for consideration? Facts
which will be published in regard to other
districts will show the Gerringong farmer that his
lot is the lot of many others, and will perhaps
convince him and the Government of the State
that it is from legislation that relief must be
sought.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Desolated Capitalist.
This remark, and it is a remark worth noting,
appeared recently in the financial column of
Sydney Telegraph :
Whatever may really be the trade outlook for the United
Kingdom, or for Australia, it cannot be denied that there
is a lot of pessimism about in both countries. We heard
a Sydney business man say, in effect, yesterday: “ X am
sending home my capital which can be spared, because
there is no profitable opening here, and what with social-
istic troubles and political pandering to the workmen
there is not likely to be any outlook for it.”
The Bulletin doesn’t profess to know whether
that Sydney business man really had any
existence, or really had any spare capital
or not—very few of them have nowadays —
but if he had he probably experienced all the
difficulty he describes in finding a promising out-
let for it. Supposing, at any time within the last
few years, there were a number of men in
Sydney with a lot of money which they wanted to
invest what could they have done with that
money 1 They wouldn’t be likely to start a new
fire insurance office ; the existing Australian fire
offices have been dying ou,t one by one for many
years, and the ground is so completely taken up
by about fifty or sixty old, solid, wealthy
British and foreign offices that there is hardly
a ghost of a show for a new local institution.
They wouldn’t be likely to start a new bank.
That business is already overdone, largely through
the fact that four English banks have so massive
a hold on things here. The only big new mining
field that has been foundin Australia inlateyearsis
practically in the possession of English companies.
Hardly anybody but a lunatic would put his
money into the establishment of a new importing
business; the English and German importing
firms are already swarming in Sydney like the
locusts that ate up Egypt. The pastoralist’s
business isn’t making bread and cheese for most
of those already in it; it has broken almost all
pastoral companies and half the banks, and it is
probably returning less than 2 per cent, all round.
As regards agriculture on a large scale, the State
already grows enough of most things for its own
requirements; it can’t absorb much more food
unless a large manufacturing population grows
up to consume it, and there is no money in
growing wheat to dump into the glutted English
market, in competition with countries that get
twice as much per acre and pay less than half the
freight. An American, under such conditions,
would organise a big manufacturing industry, but
N.S.W. has never had even one big manufacturing
industry, thanks to Ereetrade and foreign im-
ports. Its industries have been growing of late
years, especially since the advent of the allegedly
nefarious Labor party, but even now the bulk of
them are small jobbing and repairing businesses,
and the great competition of the importers pre-
vented them rising to anything better. They
average about 17 hands apiece, and there are very
few that return decent interest on the money
invested. It is no use trying to establish a new
shipping co.; the existing co.’s are laying up
vessels because the cheaply-manned British and
foreign cargo-tank is allowed to pervade our coasts
and swallow up the business. There is no real
shipbuilding in Australia; our ships are imported
from England under Ereetrade conditions, and
the local shipyards are mainly places where un-
avoidable repairs are done to British and foreign
vessels. As regards coal-mining, the biggest coal-
property in Australia is English-owned, and the
coal supply is already in excess of the demand.
Australia might put its capital into building its
own railways and public works by taking up State
loans, but most of the loans are offered in England,
and either the Australian isn’t allowed. to invest
at all, or is only allowed to invest provided he is
willing to accept less interest than the Britisher.
This insane policy has been followed for the last
four years. In the old days, the Australian with
money to dispose of went into land speculations,
but the artificial fever of the land-boom is dead,
and there is no money now in jobbing in city
allotments. Or he took up pastoral country, but
all the good and bad country has been taken up,
and the latter has ruined most of those
who took it. Or he went into y gold-mining,
but the supply of new goldfields appears
to have run out, and the absentee Bull
has largely taken possession of that industry
also. Mostly by reason of the insane policy
of the rich-man class ip encouraging foreign
capital to come in and take possession of every
industry, there has been for some years, in New
South Wales especially, hardly such a thing as a
promising opening for a Cornstalk citizen to invest
a large amount of capital in his own country.
If the foreign importer is shut out by a pro-
hibitive tariff, and the foreign steamer is totally
ejected from our coastal trade, and there is a 40
per cent, duty on imported vessels, and the ab-
sentee coal and gold mine-owners, money-lenders,
fire insurance offices, banks, etc., are discouraged
off the premises by a heavy absentee tax, then
there may be a prospect for that Cornstalk citizen.
He will have openings then in manufactures, ship-
building, shipowning, in mining, in mortgage loans,
in establishingn.ew banks and fire insurance offices,
and mapy other lines. As it is, and especially
as it has been, he simply sat down on his pile to
little profit, and charged the consequences of his
own folly on the Labor party and the eight-hour
movement. It is a curious situation for a country
which has so little capital of its own to be
hardly able to find a promising in its own
country for even that little, but the policy of
selling almost every promising industry to the
absentee Britisher (commonly described as the
influx of foreign capital to develop the industries
of this great country) has brought that state of
things to pass.
+
An Excited M.L.C.
The recent violent and boorish attitude of a gutter
section of the German press towards Britain has
been the cause of some weird correspondence in
the Sydney papers. The weirdest correspondent
of the crowd was probably Dr. Creed, M.L.C.,
who proposed that Britain should levy a special
20 per cent, duty on German products, and there-
by wipe that stiff and bloated empire off the face
of the commercial globe. Presumably Germany
would retaliate with a similar duty, and then
Britain’s best customer—the one that buys more
from her than any other State on earth, and al-
most the only one'which buys an immense amount
more from Britain than Britain buys from her —
would be gone, and the sympathetic American
would take Britain’s place in the German
markets. The same excited personage assures
Australia that it can burst up Germany by
stopping supplies, for Germany’s imports from
this country “are solely of raw material
which she must have for her workers under any
circumstances.” Unfortunately, almost the only
thing we export to Germany is wool, and Argen-
tina, which has now more sheep than all Australia
put together, is just longing for a chance to take
over the trade, and sell to Germany all the wool it
can ask for. There was a time when Australia
might have made foreign States sit up by
threatening to cut off their wool supply, but
that is a thing of the past. Also, Creed,
M.L.C., proposes that Germany, which
helps to furnish Great Britain with flour,
sugar, and other articles of food, should be
starved into submission by Britain cutting off its
food supply by sea, and assures Australia that
“the earnings of theGermanworkerswould thereby
be destroyed almost entirely.” Orbed, M.L.C.,
is actually of opinion that Germany, which im-
ports very little food, and which has the inex-
haustible food supplies of Russia and Austria
at its back-door, could be reduced to hunger by a
sea blockade. Of course, such a blockade would
distress Germany greatly, but it wouldn’t cut off
any food supply, and it might make some
articles of food cheaper by preventing their
export by sea. It wouldn’t cut off quite half
Germany’s commerce, for the country’s land
frontiers couldn’t be blockaded. It wouldn’t
even cut off its wool supply, for Argentine wool
could reach it through France or Austria. And
meanwhile Australia, at war with its third best cus-
tomer, and Britain with its best customer, and India
with its fourth-best customer, would be suffer-
ing also. Creed, M.L.C., also proposes that it
should be enacted that no goods or passengers be
carried between any of the ports of the empire
“except in vessels under the British flag, owned
and officered by British subjects.” That would
be an ordinance directed at all the outside world,
and if the outer world retaliated then Britain,
whose ships are wandering on half the coasts
of the globe, would have a bad time. Aus-
tralia, which has no ships on foreign coasts,
might enact such a sweeping law, but if
Britain did it would open the way for
some surprising experiences. Three-fourths of
Britain’s shipping trade is with countries outside
the empire, and if it proceeded thus_ to stoush all
the extraneous parts of the planet, it would very
probably provoke them to make counter-move-
ments against British shipping. It is all very
good for irresponsible and excited M’sL.C. to
plunge around in their declining years after this
fashion, but Chamberlain has his cold glazed eye
fixed on many things—the main chance among the
rest.
«
The Slaughter of the Children.
The killing of the Boer children in the British
concentration camps still goes on, and with
scarcely-diminished speed. The just-cabled returns
show that, of a total of 60,588 adults in the cjtfnps
during December, 613 died ; of a total of 56,424
children 1767 died ; so that out of 117,012 persons
2380 died —a death-rate of 244 per 1000 per annum,
or about twenty times the normal Australasian
death-rate. The children died at the rate of
377 per 1000 per annum ; —that is, the death-
rate of the Boer children up to 1% years of age is
thirteen times the death-rate of .N.S.W. children
up to five years of age—the period most fatal of
all to infant life. Here is a record of the killing
for six months :
White White as,,!*- Chib
adults in children in j fV dren’s Total,
camps. camps. ' deaths.
July .. 47,574 46,366 288 1,124 1,412
Aug. .. 55,389 52,036 368 1,510 1,878
Sept. .. 55,092 54,326 447 1,964 2,411
Oct. .. Not stated Not stated! 1 059 4 904 5 963
Nov. .. Not stated Not stated / ’
Dec. .. 60,588 56,424 613 1,767 2,380
Total for six months .. 2,775 11,269 14,044
In two years and two months of war, to Dec. 31st
1901, the total of British killed in South Africa
was 18,964. In six months of the prison-camps
the total of Boer non-combatants killed, chiefly
women and children, was 14,044. British soldiers,
exposed to all the risks of war, have been killed at
the rate of 730 per month. Boer non-combatants,
exposed only to the risks of the prison-camps,
have been killed at the rate of 2340 per
month. It is nearly three times as deadly to
live in a British prison-camp as it is to be
exposed to Boer hostilities ! No excuses, no
apologies, can palliate this monstrous holo-
caust of women’s and children’s lives. And
there is no calumny here; for these are
official figures. Now, Lord Ketchener offers,
with colossal irony, to allow the Boer women and
children to return to their homes! To their
homes ! To the waste and blackened veldt! To
the ruined farms, the burnt crops, the houses
smouldering in ashes ! Ketchener asks the Boer
commandant, harried from place to place by British
troops, to become responsible for the 100,000 women
and children that have been drafted into the
prison-ca*ips like sheep for the slaughter! Yet
we talk of “ German calumnies.” What calumnies
could surpass the fact? To the end of time,
those thousands of African graves will cry
disgrace upon the British nation which counten-
anced and permitted the slaughter—ay ! and upon
Australia, which uttered no protest.
*
A Manufacturer’s Deputy.
The following gem is taken from the Federal Par-
liamentary reports of last week :
Mr. Conroy: I decline to accept instructions FROM
ANY MANUFACTURERS’ DEPUTY. Go and get your
instructions from the manufacturers, but don’t pass them
on to me.
This was CONROY, the Foreign-trader, addressing
Mauger, the Protectionist. Mauger, it may be
explained, is a manufacturers’ deputy without any
doubt. He has long been the secretary of an
organisation formed for the purpose of urging
local industries ahead, and until he ran against
the M ‘Millan and Conroy push he probably
never dreamt that anyone could expect him to be
ashamed of the fact. He knows better now. Mauger
seldom speaks without some Foreign-trader or
other asking, with scorn and loathing, if the
House is to be diotated to by a deputy of the
manufacturers. Mauger has the misfortune to be
distinctively the representative of an Australian
class which provides work and wages for thou-
sands of Australian artisans, and spends its profits
in Australia, and is content, on the average,
so far as can be gathered from the balance-
sheets of manufacturing companies, to scrape
an 8 per cent, dividend for itself out of the
business. And the Conroy crowd, which acts
as agent and flunkey for the rich importing gang
that mostly has its headquarters in England, and
spends its 10 and 15 per cent, dividends there,
can’t conceal its tremendous disgust at a man who
merely represents Australian industries getting
between the wind and its Calico Jimmyism. The
crowd which acts as an aggregate political pimp
for the wealthy absentee merchants mentions the
fact that Mauger represents Australian industries
as a matter which is so obviously disgraceful that
it only needs to be mentioned to cover him with
shame. Quite recently the same member was
charged with “living on the manufacturers,” or
words to that effect, and that was also mentioned
as if it were an unburied corpse being brought to
light. Yet the anti-Australian gang of importers
was even then passing round the eleemosynary
hat for a certain Freetrade politician, in order that
he might be better able to maintain the battle of
Calico Jimmy against Australian manufacturers.
AndM‘Mii.LAN, the man who scoffs at “wretched”
Australian industries, lives directly on the impor-
ters. He represents the absentee M‘ Arthurs, and
liis scorn for the men that have sunk so low as to
represent Australian manufacturers, who spend
their profits in the country and employ Australian
labor, is also something lofty and tremendous.
Australia pays men like Conroy and M‘Mti,lan
to jeer at its “wretched” industries, and to
point out indignantly the baseness of anybody
who represents Australian manufactures in an
Australian Legislature. And N.S.W. supplies
these men. And N.S.W. has also, for many
years, sacrificed about £lOO,OOO a-year to protect
the Freetrade papers which boost wp and adver-
tise these men. It isn’t many countries which
would do as much.
A Mental Reservation.
Premier Barton’s speech on the “patriotic
motion,” which he ac,cep ted at the dictation of
Mr. Reid, and about his broken 'jfromise not to
send away a contingent without first consulting
Parliament, was a masterly defence of the doctrine
of “ mental reservation” :
I want to make it clear that all that was in my mind
when I answered the question in the House and made the
promise not to act without giving an opportunity for dis-
cussion was that the matter was not seething in the
public mind at the time, and we had not then made up
our minds to make an offer.
So in future, when Premier Barton makes a
promise, we are not to believe what he says, but
to try and find out what he “has in his mind.”
Meanwhile, it is worth while for Australia to
make a note of this: There is no lie, no mean-
ness, no treachery, no broken promise, no aban-
donment of principle, no selling of truth or
honor, no crawling-down or backing-out, no wile,
dodge, or betrayal that a man can’t be guilty of, if
he once fully persuades himself that an alleged
mental reservation when he gave his word is
sufficient reason why he need not 'hold his word
sacred. Hereafter, when Premier Barton pro-
mises anything it will be essential to ask him if it
is a reliable promise, which he means to keep, or a
promise that is nullified by something he has, or
is going to have, in his mind. If Parliament
treated Premier "Barton as Premier Barton has
treated Parliament,-and promised him his salary
with a mental reservation, his remarks on the
subject would probably be worth listening to.
L —♦
In a New Character.
George Reid—he of the glazed eye and the Dry
Dog—having kept to his tents for some time,
waiting for the great Freetrade Party to send
for him, or possibly send something to him,
and not being sent for, has evidently turned his
thoughts in another direction. The High Com-
missionership of Australia, with its salary of
£5OOO. a year, which public opinion has generally
marked out for B. R. Wise, is still an “open
billet ”; and George Reid has evidently con-
cluded-that there are worse stages on which to
lag moderately superfluous than London, where
he can be the Commonwealth’s representative.
There or thereabouts, it is commonly reported, lies
the reason for his sudden access of friendliness
towards the Barton Ministry. He helped Pre-
mier Barton out of the large hole and the
great difficulty in which his vacillation," his
Eolitical treachery, and his gross breach of faith
ad involved him. George Reid ,is not the man
who does salvage work of this kind for nothing ;
he doesn’t even rescue his friend out of the hole
gratis, let alone his enemy. If Barton had been
allowed to meet Parliament and face the direct
issue of his broken faith, the debate would have
been damaging, if not absolutely disastrous. But
Reid, in “afriendly letter,” suggested the clever
move of drawing the German herring across the
trail, and Parliament met to Barton’s
broken compact, but the rude language of the
German press. No member, whatever his
opinions, cared to take the responsibility of ap-
pearing in the public eye as the champion of Teu-
tonic boorishness and Prussian junkerism ; and an
incident which threatened danger was passed over
with eclat and “cheers for the Empire.” At the
same time, George REiD’took the opportunity to
Sut himself right with the Chamberlain party, in
Ingland by a perfervid speech, which should wipe
out all memory of his action in pigeon-holing the
first request for Australian troops for service in
Africa. All this has a purpose. George Reid is
not likely to have reconsidered his war attitude
simply for the amusement of political gymnastics.
He used to do such things, but he grows too old
and heavy for the frivolous boundings of a few
years ago. All things point to the conclusion that
the High Commissionership lias attracted him,
and that he regards it as probable that Premier
Barton will gladly seize the chance to get rid of
a dangerous opponent. A friend promoted is, in
practical politics, a friend lost; an enemy pro-
moted is an enemy lost, and enemies are more
easily spared. Even if he is missed when he is
gone a new enemy can always be found to take his
place.
M'MikLAN’s Sydney speech to importers and
Freetraders was stuffed as full of stupidities as an
egg is full of meat. Ho wanted to know, for
example, “What is the good of Australia pre-
dominating in the Pacific if she has got no trade
in the Pacific ? ” The- Bulletin wants to know
what is the good of M‘Millan predominating in
his own family if he can’t sell things to his wife
and children ? The tariff has killed the Fiji
banana trade and the Hebrides coffee trade, has
it? All the better, since it has.given fresh life to
coffee and banana production'in Queensland. The
skin is closer than the coat pand one tropical agri-
culturist in Australia, employing white labor, is
worth to us more than 100 in Fiji, employing black
labor. But it isn’t so good for the Foreign-trade
middleman, and that is where M‘Millan’s trouble
comes in. The Queensland coffee and bana,na
production is still far short of the Australian
demand, but it will catch up. And when Aus-
tralia produces those, and other things, for ithelf
it won’t have to send tribute to England to keep
M‘Millan’s absentee bosses in luxury.
M’Millan complained bitterly to the Freetraders,
in his recent Sydney speech, that the Federal
tariff practically destroyed Australia’s imports
of Maoriland bacon, ham and cheese. All the
better for Australia. Australia doesn’t intend to
live by paying M.L. farmers to produce things
that its own farmers can produce. When the
article imported is one we can grow ourselves,
then “trade” is a mere useless and costly
humping of goods from one place to another.
All buying of goods and carrying of them
round the corner is trade; it is only when
the article is carried over a certain line
marked on the map that a record is kept of
it —but it is all trade, none the less. M‘Millan,
by having his breakfast cooked at home instead of
having it bought at the hotel and carried to his
house on a tray through a dust-storm, is destroy-
ing the commerce in cooked victuals—the export
of them from the hotel in the next street, and the
import of them to his own house, and the impor-
tant trade in carrying the tray round the corner.
The middleman’s reverence for the art of carrying
things round the corner is a holy emotion, but he
fails at times to live up to his Joss.
That Protest from Balmain.
At a meeting of the Balmain branch of the Australian
Natives’ Association, held in the local Town Hall,
the following resolution was carried That the
Balmain branch of the Australian Natives’ Association
strongly protests against the utterances of the German
Imperial Chancellor (Count VON Bulow) in practically
supporting what he must know are base canards in re-
gard to the British conduct of the South African war, in
view of which this branch of the A.N.A. urges concerted
action on the part of all patriotic Australians in protest-
ing against such utterances on the part of a so-called
friendly Power. Also, that this resolution be forwarded
to the board of directors for transmission by them through
the proper channels to the British Government.”
The Chancellor von Bulow
Sat in his State Bureau,
Inscrutable and cold
As some grim knight of old.
Upon his right hand stood
His Secretary good :
Said he—“ Herr von Bulow
All England’s in a glow.
“ With anger and amaze
Its Press is all ablaze.
Alas, Herr von Bulow,
You have the world for foe ! ”
The Chancellor von Bulow,
Inscrutable and slow,
Said—“ What are they to me,
Or our Great Germany ? ”
Then, clanking through the door,
Strode in the Emperor.
He threw his naked sword
Upon the Council board.
“ My Chancellor,” said he,
“ This touches you and me.
Our honor is at stake ;
Let Germany awake!
“ Observe this paper here —
It’s haughty flaunt and jeer ;
Our imperial course is plain—
Make war against Balmain.”
He flung his helmet tall.
Against the office wall,
And swung his Sword of Dread
Three times around his head.
Then quickly down below
His table dropped Bulow ;
The Secretary, he
Lay flat and silently.
The Kaiser’s wrath passed by.
Yet scorn was in his eye ;
Then from his posture low
Rose Chancellor Bulow.
The Secretary, too,
Arose, with eye askew—
“ 0 Kaiser, Sovereign Lord,
Put up that dreadful sword.
“ ’Tis not Balmain alone
That rages round your Throne ;
Its threat is backed to-day
By all the A.N.A.”
The Kaiser, Sovereign Lord,
Put up his dreadful sword—
“ Lie low, Bulow,” said he,
“There’s peace in Germany.”
CAREVE ROE.


The equitable life assurance society
of the United States.
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STANDINR
In order to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
for particulars, refer to
S. W. D’ARCY-IRVIN ft, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney ; or to
G. G. MoCOLL, Manager for Victoria and Tasmania,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
©. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
There is a wild row jusfcaiow in the Scotch
medical community of Sydney. When Hector
Macdonald visited the city its Scotch citizens, and
more particularly its Scotch doctors, decided to
g've him all the haggis that the heart of man
could desire, and some of them cheerfully guaran-
teed to put up any haggis money that was
required, assured, seemingly, that the guarantee
would never have to be honored. But after
Hector had had his haggis there was a wee
deefeecit, ye ken—some £5O or so—and a very
solemn gathering of Scotch doctors assembled in
consultation as to ways and means of removing
the growth. Then one young man (a very young
man who didn’t know his Sydney or his brother
doctors well), airily remarked that the £5O could be
easily managed; such and such a big gun had
guaranteed £lO, another £lO, another £5 and so
on. A frozen silence held those doctors, and you
might have heard a claymore drop. Afterwards,
it is rumored, the young man was threatened with
very dire consequences indeed by one big gun.
The threats are regarded in other quarters as
“most injudicious”—perhaps as calculated to
warn a person who should have been silently
extirpated— and the shadow of Hector’s haggis
is dark over the medical quarters of Sydney.
The New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency
Co., Limited, report. Wheat: Though the market re-
tains to a great extent the buoyancy lately noted, there
has been, during the week under review, indications that,
for the time being at all events, both the millers and the
shippers (notwithstanding the easier freights) have
reached their limit. Prime grain still commands at a
trifle over 3s. Id., f.a.q. is worth to 3s. pinched, and chick-
wheat has ranged from 2s. 7d. to 2s. lOd. per bushel ac-
cording to sample. •
THE NEW
MILITARY
FIELD GLASS.
Very Powerful. As used by
Officers of the British Army
in South A'rica. Quickly
Focussed. Magnifying:s times. 65/-, Aluminium 85/-
In Solid leather Sling Case.
nm n,
WO op, “The Optician,”
Only Address in N.S. W. —
299 GEORQE-ST. (op . Hanter-st ), SYDNEY
. . AND . .
Equitable Building:8 9 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
Seijd (is yoOr
•^-PHOTOfiRRPH.
■ F you send a Photograph of yourself (or friend) to Mr.
* Mark Blow, The Crown Studios, Sydney, and also
send the following “ COUPON,” he will reproduce from
the Photo, a
Very Beautiful and Artistically-Finished
Pcrnjapgpt Cplargerpcpt
in Monochrome, equalling a rich Steel-Plate Engraving,
handsomely mounted on an Indian Tinted Plate, sunk
mount, and as good in every way as Enlargements now
being supplied at from 30s. to 60s. each ; and will care-
fully pack it and send it, Paroel Post Paid, to any address
in Australia, Tasmania or New Zealand for lOs. 6d.
YOUR PHOTO. RETURNED WITH ORDER.
Cut out the following Coupon and send it with your
Photo.
[Bulletin]
COUPON,
To M- BLOW (Photographer to His Excellency
the Governor-General, Lord Hopetoun),
The Crown Studios, Ceorge Street Sydney.
Please have the enclosed Photograph Enlarged
and Mounted, as per this Special Offer, and forward
it to me, carriage paid, to the following address, for
which I enclose 10s. 6d. in full payment.
Name
Address
Write your Name on the back of the Photograph, to
avoid errors.
The Name of the Crown Studios is a guarantee of
Good Work and a Faithful Reproduction.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “ Alice in Wonderland.”
Lyceum “ For a Child’s Sake.”
Her Majesty's Grand Opera Season.
Palace . “Professor’s Love Story.”
Criterion “The Executioner’s Daughter.”
Empire Fuller Co.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ Aladdin.”
Her Majesty’s “San Toy.”
Theatre Royal “ The Span of Life.”
Gaiety Theatre Maggie Moore Co.
Opera H'ouse Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Bijou World’s Entertainers.
“The Professor’s Love Story” (a comedy
by J. M. Barrie, produced at Sydney Palace last
Saturday) shows literary rather than dramatic
skill; yet the development of the slender tale
should have made but slight demands on the
resources of a play-wright with a fair knowledge
of the technique of his profession. But then IVlr.
Barrie is not a playwright, but a novelist. His
choice of dramatic expedients in this piece shows
the amateur: the eavesdropping scene of the
third act, for example, is strained and un-
natural, verging on the altogether improbable.
And, to be of the first class, a comedy must
develope on the lines of absolute naturalness.
Apart from its errors of technique, “ A Professor’s
Love Story ”is of rare literary flavor—a graceful
little play, full of quaint humor and tender pathos.
It boasts no sensations, no fitful flash of glaring
epigram, but, in soft grey and rose, the story of a
dawning love is unfolded, through its merry fun
and its brief trial, to its happy ending. To some
of the characters the author has been very kind.
Professor Good willie and Dr. Cosens, for instance,
are drawn firmly and finely. The women of the
play are not so well treated ; Lucy White, the
heroine, is rather colorless, and is given two
distinct characters—one for the afternoon (act II.),
the other for the evening (act III.); and a woman
can’t change her character as she changes her
hat. In act I. Lucy White is secretary to
the absent-minded, old-young Professor who,
without knowing it, has fallen in love with her,
and finds as the chief symptom of the sickness a
disinclination for work. The situation is quite
clear to her, however; and it is put beyond all
doubt by an accusation from Dr. Cosens that she
is trying to trap the Professor into marriage. Yet
she follows the Professor to Scotland, and, by a
trick, gets him to propose : then, in bitter sorrow
at the trick, wants to rush away from the nup-
tials, and is recovered, under rather unfinished
literary circumstances, to be happily kissed by a
rejuvenated man of learning. Now the girl in Act
I. wouldn’t feel any bitter sorrow in Act 111. for
Act II.: she would be rather cogitating on her
trousseau. But the story is pretty ; it is prettily
told ; it is adorned with much subtle humor ; it is
charmingly stage-pictured, and that makes it more
than good enough. V
• * * *
As for the acting of “ The Professor’s
Love Story ” it is of the highest order of merit.
Charles Arnold as the Professor (especially in
Act I.) plays with sympathy and power, holding
the audience every moment that he is on the
stage. Mr. Arnold has never before done any-
thing so good, even in the palmy young days of
“ Hans the Boatman.” Mr. Thomas supplies a
very effective character cketch of a consulting
doctor, and Mr. George Willougby of an M.P.
with somewhat under the political average of
brains. Two pawky Scotch laborers are also
capitally acted by Messrs. Denton and Sharp.
The women characters have not been so well
treated by the author. Miss Ada Lee has the
best playing part (Effie Proctor) and does it every
justice. Miss Dot Frederics as the heroine gives
full expression to what charm and grace that
inconsistent young person possesses. The audi-
ence on the opening night was very large, but not
markedly enthusiastic. It seemed to nave been
expecting something of the “Jones ” brand, and
its frame of mind was that of a bear who looked
for a bun and found a rose. But either the origi-
nal bear will rise to higher things, or the kind of
bear that really wants a rose, hearing that there
is one available at the Palace, will hasten there on
all his four feet.
** » *
At Sydney Royal “ Alice in Wonderland ”
still appeals mainly to the juvenile section of the
community. Certain variety items introduced
into the second edition caused a brief spasm of
adult interest, but the items had been seen so
often elsewhere that it was only a brief
spasm. If a third edition is contemplated, The
Bulletin suggests some really good, well-dressed,
well-staged ballets. There is not a decent big
ballet in the show, and so the men nearing their
second childhood stay away, and are not brought
along in their Bath chairs as they should be. A
pantomime can never really succeed without the
unanimous support of the men in their second
childhood, or thereabouts.
«* * *
Verdi’s “Otello” flashed across Her
Majesty’s stage (Sydney) one night last week, and,
although it showed up the cracks and seams in
Williamson’s 00., received a tremendous ovation.
’Tis a marvellous composition: its strains glitter
through the memory like jewels seen through wine.
The tumultuous anger of Otello in the third act is
infectious; it spreads to the audience, and when
the last angry echo has died away it leaves a sense
of wrong for which only death can atone. Many
a man, after seeing “ Otello,” would gladly go
away and slay all his creditors on the spot.
Bozzoli’s impersonation of lago, the damned, was
rather wooden, and the claw-like action of his
hand was incessant. Sapio’s renderings of the
“Ave Maria” and heart-breaking “Willow Song”
were things to be remembered. Larizza, as the
Moor, was the best of the cast, and even he didn’t
strike one as being equal to the splendors of the
opportunity. Larizza is 40, which age is a bit of
a drawback in the upper voice-register. He is a
lawyer, and practises m his ain countree—whether
in the higher courts, Or in defence of Giovanni, the
drunk, when he has used bad language on the
Campagna, writer knows not.
** * *
Operas trod close on each other’s heels at
Her Majesty’s, last week. ‘‘ Feodora ” had a good
run. Bassich as a tragedienne, and Dani’s fine,
restrained acting of Loris Ipanoff, are attractions
that outweigh even the drawbacks of the music.
Giaconda ” was repeated on Saturday night. A
group of the just-arrived “ Ben-Hur”-ites were in
the manager’s box. The chief operatic attraction
of this week was “ Ernani.”
** * *
The Empire calls the people of Sydney to
its pantomime as per usual, and many contingents
have been despatched in that direction. But the
days of Robinson, like the hairs of our head, are
numbered, and when this paper is published
Robinson’s days will be only two. The hairs above-
mentioned are, in many cases, just about as fre-
quent nowadays. The Empire, when it has lost
its Robinson, will go back to the variety business,
and trusts, by civility and prompt attention to
business and a reasonable display of legs, to pro-
sper as aforetime.
* * *
At Sydney Criterion “ For the Sake of a
Woman ” goes off this week to make room for the
Executioner’s Daughter.” Miss Roxy Barton,
who took the part of the heroine for the last week
or so, acts in a rather vigorous and wide-awake
manner considering what a mild, simple-
minded young person she impersonates. Miss
Barton has a good voice, which she does not quite
know how to manipulate, and the little gasp she
gives every now and then somewhat detracts
from what is, for so young an actress, a good per-
formance. Miss Helene Burdette keeps up to her
usual high standard, her denunciation of the hero
shortly before her murder being a specially fine
bit of declamation.
** * *
On the coming Saturday “For a Child’s
Sake ” is to be staged at Sydney Lyceum. The
new play is by Henry Herman, part author of
Silver King,” which may mean a good deal, or
again it may not. When two writers collaborate fora
time, and then give up collaborating, it generally
means that one of them has found the other out,
and if Herman was the man who found out Jones!
and not the one who was found out himself, then his
new play should be worth considering. It
is produced “ by arrangement with W. J. Hollo-
way, Esq.” The Bulletin notes with some satis-
faction that not nearly so many things happen by
arrangement with W. J. Holloway, Esq., as for-
merly. There was a time when the solar system
was only saved from general collision by arrange-
ment with W. J. Holloway, Esq.
«* * #
Sydney Tivoli found no reason to change
its programme last week, and thus gives a hurried
critic opportunity to mention some of the smaller
lights in the general illumination. Val Vousden,
a female impersonator, who reads a letter from
Dan O’Connor nightly, is a sufficiently humorous
person to be always welcome. The Williams
Sisters, four lithe-limbed Australian girls, who
juggle on bicyles, also provide a good turn ; and
Miss Ada Delroy, in addition to her flame-dance,
contributes a pleasant bell-duet, being assisted by
a male person who bears the same name as the
implement. “High and Low” is the first song
of Miss Lizzie Collins now, and it exactly describes
the voice of that gorgeously-gowned lady. One
moment it is lowest contraito, the next highest
?ad she been caught young and trained
Miss Lizzie might have been the world’s contralto
now.
*« * #
Business seems to have slowed down at
all the Melbourne theatres, though the pantomime
matinee crowds continue to be great and jubilant
As regards “San Toy,” at Her Majesty’s, the
drop m the attendance amounts almost to a slump
Public opinion has decided that “San Toy,” even
on the demerits of its book, doesn’t go as gaily as
it might have gone. There are few positive and
a lot of negative faults in the performance, and
where these faults are musical the orches-
tra is to blame. Composer Jones is a pretty
melodist .as a rule, but his tunes are
not strikingly original or remarkably various
therefore the orchestra should show them
all the delicate consideration possible instead of
making too muchee noise. A duet between Miss
Young and Bathurst is a rather effective piece of
operatic shoddy, in which the two fine voices seem
to be kept under, rather than brought out by the
accompaniment. The full strength of the lady’s
glorious top-note is required to score a success for
that duet. Miss Young’s warble being the most
admired item of “San Toy,” it has been re-
marked, with sorrow and surprise, that she gets
no chance to shake up the second act, wherein
Miss Palotta invites a stern reproof from this
journal by talking a silly song about Rhoda, who
ran a, Pagoda. Now that Miss P.’s foreign accent
has lost its novelty, a good many people feel hurt
at her conversational singing, except when she
can give point to the refrain by picking up her
in the best Palotta manner. In “San
Toy ” she hasn’t the assistance of a long skirt
consequently the story of Pagoda Rhoda comes
very painful.
** * *
The three acrobats who go to Africa to be
walked upon are still stretching themselves across
a chasm at Melbourne Royal. A small weekly
journal with a Freetrade mission lately alluded
to the aforesaid “Living Bridge” as a master-
piece of John Brunton’s art, but in more enlight-
ened circles the Horley Bros, are recognised as
things apart from the scenery. Some nights
more than others, the middleman of the Bridge
looks an unsafe plank in Mrs. Holt’s platform,
and Mrs. H. seems to tread very lightly on his
innards. Nevertheless, she has made about 25
escapes from the Arabs with complete success,
and the health of “ The Span of Life” appears to
be satisfactory.
** * *
<l The Colleen Bawn,” at the Melbourne
Gaiety Theatre, is an Irish drama, produced under
distressful circumstances. The Gaiety, in fact, is
not a theatre, but a hall, and a small-staged hall
at that, whereas Maggie Moore is a well-grown
colleen, who needs elbow-room for her emotion
and plenty of lake to fall into when Danny Mann
attempts to drown her marriage - certificate.
Also, the drama itself seems unable to
breathe an air of romance when the proscenium
comes close to the orchestra-reserve and the
front row of stalls is within easy distance of the
back cloth. “Colleen Bawn,” in its present
domicile, is not a persuasive fiction. The com-
pany, for the most part, does well, or fairly well;
but the solemn exhortations of Father Tom seem
rather short weight, and Hardress Cregan fails to
account for the interest that. Eily and Danny and
other people take in his somewhat wooden Career.
Hardress, although not a noble character, is ex-
pected to be a more imposing devil of a fellow than
Vincent Scully makes him.
** * *
Wallace Brownlow is claiming £lOOO
damages from the Sandringham (Melb.) Coffee
Palace for injuries received through stepping out
of a door that led to a fall of 25 feet, with hard
stuff at the end of the distance. Newspaper
paragraphs state the result of the accident was a
sprained ankle,” but, as a matter of fact, the
doctors don’t know how much the beauteous
baritone may have hurt himself. Of late he has
lived at a private hospital, coming out for an hour
m the evening to sing at Melb. Bijou, and all the
time he seems to be getting worse instead of
better.
** * #
Aladdin, at Melbourne Princess’s,
shows sundry changes in Nellie Stewart’s cos-
tumes, one of which is a gorgeous yellow robe,
elaborately trimmed with pantomime rubies and
other valuables. This is the raiment Aladdin
wears when he drops into the Emperor’s Court at
Pekin to notifv Princess Maud Harrington of
his intention to marry her. The surface
value of Aladdin would be about two and
a-half millions sterling on a jeweller’s rough
calculation, but dear little Maud shakes her head
sadly at the young man, and says she will never
be able to get the Imperial consent to her mar-
riage with a pauper. Then Nellie Aladdin ex-
plains that he is no longer sunk in deepest
poverty, but has become a multi - billionaire,
and the Princess is expected to give a light
soprano cry of astonishment. Subsequently, the
other smart boy (Miss Rose Hamilton) come along
with the other nice sympathetic girl (Miss Ada
Willoughby) and they all sing their love for one
anot her in a sweet and feeling strain. Musgrove’s
extravaganza has all sorts of charms for all kinds
of onlookers. The onlooker who is now speaking
finds a particular charm in the intelligence of the
performers. There are no flies on the co. this
year.
** * *
At Melbourne Bijou (where the names of
the World’s Entertainers are politely painted on
an electric-lighted board for the information of the
outside world) everything is proceeding as usual
except, perhaps, the Lottos, who have been
announced to proceed somewhere else. To-night
(Ihursday) is ‘a special American night ” at the
Bijou. On this occasion Henry Lee produces
himself as a series of famous Americans, ranging
from Croker to Roosevelt, and the Star-Spangled
Banner will probably sing “Yankee Doodle”
with variations.
** * *
The Opera House is seeing the last week
of Peggy Pryde, for the present, and, in place of
Beg., somebody from New York or Sydney may
be expected next Saturday. Otherwise, last
week’s programme remains up to date. The
Jackson Family is growing on the affections of a
moderately musical populace, because the Jacksons
are bright and unassuming entertainers as well as
clever musicians. In fact, they promise to be a
very valuable engagement to Rickards, who has
never previously staged a musical “ turn ” of the
same class as the J acksons’.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Owing to the language of some irresponsible
German papers, a multitude of foolish people-meiudimr
people who from their positions, might be expected to
know something of trade statistics—have written to the
papers, asking why Britain and Australasia should go on
buying from the objectionable Teuton and thereby keep
that person out of the Insolvency Court with our
good red gold. A general boycott of German goods in
Britain and Australasia has even been proposed. Unfor-
tunately, this is how the trade statistics really go
according to the latest published returns : ’
Sold to Bought from Balance in
Germany Germany Britain’s favor
. (year). (year). (vear)
Britain .. £37,9*8,267 .. £30,123,058 .. £7,855,199
Balance in Aus-
tralasia’s favor
Australasia 2,901,363 .. 2,244,154 ..
Germany may be darned uncivil, but if Britain and Aus-
tralasia start an effective boycott of Germany’s goods,
and Germany retaliates in like fashion, both Britain and
Australasia will be the losers. India will also be an
enormous loser. It isn’t so much a case of us supporting
the German by buying his goods, as of the German sup-
porting us by buying our goods—this despite all the
jokes about Made in Germany.”
Tti® trouble about the trade-boycott idea is that
the countries which curse and ridicule and abuse the
empire most are also those which do most to keep us out
of bankruptcy. France and Germany may be hostile,
beastly and objectionable, but they buv from Australasia
IP ° ne year, according to latest available statistics,
£6,794,669 worth of goods, and sell to us only £2,811,805
worth. Australasia has to export and turn into cash
every year about £14,000,000 worth more goods than it
imports in order to pay interest on its public and
private debts, and we make out of these two unfriendh'
countries almost £4,000,000 of this amount. If it was
possible to mark our displeasure at French and German
caricatures by shutting up the trade with these two
countries, then Australasia would probably be bankrupt.
The United States, Scandinavia and Japan are friendly
enough, but we buy from them over £2,400,000 worth
more than we sell to them, and, if the trade with those
three States was closed up by a boycott, they would lose—
not we.
Britain is in almost exactly the same situation
as Australasia. France and Germany taken together are,
m one sense, our best customers —better even than Great
Britain. That is to say our trade with them shows a bigger
average surplus in our favor than our trade with Britain
does, and it is largely the gold they pay us to make
good the difference which enables us to pacify
our British creditors. France is the better sup-
port of the two —in fact, it isn’t uncommon for us to
make a bigger profit on our trade with France alone than
on our trade with Britain ; and the friendly United
States are, in a trade sense, our very worst loss. Britain
in like manner finds Germany its best customer, and the
United States its very' worst. Germany buys more from
Britain than does any other State ; even all Australasia or
all India isn’t so good a customer. The trade with Ger-
many shows a bigger margin in favour of Britain than
does the trade of any' other State or any British depen-
dency, and the gold that Germany sends in payment for
the extra goods she buys from Britain is one of the things
which enables Britain to pay for the goods the Yankee
sends her, seeing that the Yankee (who is Britain’s bit-
terest commercial enemy, just as Germany is almost the
only commercial friend Britain possesses) won’t take
goods in return. Germany, in fact, pay's Brita n nearly
£8,000,000 a year for the privilege of calling her bad
names. And the United States gets nearly £90,000,000 a
year from Britain as the price of its friendship.
• * • «
The Bank of Victoria shows for the half-year to
31st December, 1901, another material improvement all
round. Some recent figures are as follows :
Less Dividends.
Preference Ordinary
Profits. 5 per cent. 21 per cent. Reserves
June, 1895 .. £19,863 .. £10,419 .. ~£16,549
Dec., 1895 .. 20,631 .. 10,419 .. .. 26,761
June, 1896 .. 15,069.. 10,419 .. .. 31,411
Dec., 1896 .. 17,928 .. 10,419 .. .. 38,920
June, 1897 .. 17,877.. 10,419 .. .. 46,378
Dec., 1897 .. 22,730 .. 10,419 .. .. 58,689
June, 1898 .. 24,380.. 10,419 .. .. 72,650
Dec., 1898 .. 27,800 .. 10,419 .. .. 90,031
June, 1899 .. 27,637.. 10,419 .. .. 107,249
Dec., 1899 .. 27,906.. 10,419 .. .. 124,736
June, 1900 .. 28,554 .. 10,419 ..£13.266 .. 129,605
Ordinary
3 per cent.
Dec., 1900 .. 30,178 .. 10,419 .. 15,919 .. 133,445
June, 1901 .. 31,399.. 10,419.. 15,919 .. 138,506
Dec., 1901 .. 33,136 .. 10,419 .. 15,919 .. 145,304
The earnings are the largest for a long series of years,
and represent £4 2s. per eent. per annum on the share-
holders’ funds (capital £1,478,010, and reserves £138,506
=£1,616,516) with which the half-year commenced. This
is a very material improvement, as compared with the
£3 17s. lid. per cent, earned for the half-year to 30th
June last.
Other things show an improvement as well as
earnings. As compared with the figures of six months
ago note circulation has increased by’ £11,143; private
deposits, which now stand at £4,327,829, have increased
by £126,436 (Government deposits have decreased


RAND ROCK DRILLS & AIR COMPRESSORS
BY THE SOLE AGENTS—
N. GTJTHRIDGE, LTD., 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And at 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE ; WELLINGTON, N.Z.;
214 HIGH STREET, FREMANTLE ; KALGOORLIE.
, mn
TRAMWAYS. tram w ays.
The Central Mining; & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
representing QREN3TEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS anjl supply Every Description of Tramway Material.
US*" Locomotives from 10 to 350 h.p. “*(1
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel Sleepers,
Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical advice gratuitously
rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Catalogues and Photo-
graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different parts of the World, upon
application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
Local' Government Joubnat, London, 20th
July, 1901: “ The Colonial Mutual needs no endorsement,
its stability is beyond question ; its policies are drawn in
the most liberal manner that experience can possibly
justify.”*
• * • *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The Hannans Oroya Gold Mining Co., Kal-
goorlie, have lately placed an order with the Austral
Otis Company, South Melbourne, for a double drum first
motion winding engine. The cylinders are 18 inch
diameter by 36 inch stroke, and are fitted with balanced
piston valves. The drums are Bft. in diameter and fitted
with indicators. The engine is completely controlled
from the driver’s platform. In all respects is similar to
the engines working so satisfactorily at the Golden Horse-
shoe Mine, Boulder, Long Tunnel, Victoria, and the Cobar
Chesney Mine, N.S.W. *
* * • *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemist 9,
* * * *
See for yourself. The Australian Medical
Gazette of January, 1891, compares Zetz Spa to the cele-
brated Vichy waters of France, and states that it is
valuable for gout, rheumatism, gravel, catarrh of the
bladder, diabetes, dyspepsia, splenic and hepatic dis-
orders.
• * * •
Vanning Tables.— The very newest and what
gives exceedingly fair promise of superseding all other
tables is the machine known as the Wesle.v-Baird Vanning
Table. The table is of South Australian invention, and
has given excellent results on Broken Hill ores and ores
containing pyrites, carbonate of copper and tin. Like all
tables, the best work is done on “ fines,” and more espe-
cially when the product is properly classified. The
Central Mining and Tramway Co., of 424 Little Collins-
street, Melbourne, and 40 rfunter-sbreet, Sydney, are the
sole agents in the Eastern States. The table has a capa-
city up to 30 tons per day.*
* * * •
Gentleman having only a limited time at their
disposal can obtain the practical instruction in assaying
and metallurgical work, necessary to qualify them for
obtaining good positions, in the ore testing works of Gil-
Allan and McCreery, Stock Exchange Buildings, Melb.*
V • • *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melt ourne.*
* * ♦ *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
* - * * *
Mr. Mephan Verguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that tha
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated tha
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in-diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts,nuts,forgings, andallsortsof iron-work,*
* * * *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buciiu Bitters.,
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
• * * *
Told of a much-boomed copper show in
Australia that the “manager” recently sent some miles
to another mine to borrow a soldering iron ; the copper
resources of the show seemingly didn’t even run to that.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles. Caustic Soda,
Borax, Arsertic, Carbonate of Soda, etd.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting: Charges.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Mblboursk ;
11 Pitt-at., Sydney; 68 Currie-st.' Adel.
Brisk. ; arid at Christchurch, Dunedin,
Auckland, NZ.
; V Eagle^etreeL
WeUington, and
Phase/of ..'iknovernraent deposits only reflect the varying
to do -vitL treasurer’s impecuniosity, and have nothing
and liAnia bank’s progress); and the reserve of casn
stands has leased by £268,678, and now
all li vur This represents 32£ per cent, upon
reliimo of • the public. All these are solid and
Lnnnr.nlV? • 1! ?£,!?' £ ’ ures - w hen certain regrettable events
ain^nJf? 0 * 'V** Hie Bank of Victoria had total reserves
thß i„i n £ k°, £259,380, so a great deal more than half
.ju ® a ? been made good, and if the management
ronrof 8 < « P rese nt cautious policy it should, in the
a , . v years, have much more solid resources
had m the old days. The reserves of the old
Victoria were wholly inadequate, and it is to be
at k“ e new bank realises the fact, and intends to
uli™ th f ln \. u 1 P much more solidly than the original estab-
snment did. This institution has now the most solid
reserve among the Victorian banks. Figures, according
to latest balance-sheets are as follows :
„ , .Total Reserves.
Bank of Victoria .. , £145,304
National Bank .. .. ~ 73,192
Ballarat Banking 00. .. .. .. 60,484
Colonial Bank 31,531
Royal Bank _ 21,809
Commercial Bank of Australia .. .. 16,918
••* « •
Queensland National Bank, from latest re-
arrangement until now
Less.
Gross Written Private tST 1
Profits. o«. «?v e ,n
Dec., 1897.. £16,635 £8,635 £2OOO £4OOO £2,000
June, 1898.. 17,795 8,795 2250 4500 4,250
Dec., 1898.. 21,255 12,255 2250 4500 6,500
June, 1899.. 23,879 13,879 2500 5000 9,000
Dec., 1899.. 27,341 15,341 3000 6000 12,000
June, 1900.. 27,447 15,447 3000 6000 15,000
Dec., 1900.. 27,713 15,713 3000 6000 18,000
June, 1901.. 28,350 16,350 3000 6000 21,000
Dec., 1901.. 28,745 16,745 3000 6000 24,000
The nominal net profit (£12,000, after writing £16,745 off
losses) is equal to £5 10s. 7d. per cent, per annum on the
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves) as at the open-
ing of the half-year. The gross profits represent
£l3 4s. lid. percent. These are respectable figures, but
when a bank gets so much of its deposits at something
like £2 12s. 6d. per cent., and has the bulk of its deposits
so securely fixed that it isn’t necessary to keep any
cash reserve against them, the fact that the above rates
are earned on the very small shareholders’ funds now
remaining (capital £412,985 and reserve at opening of
half-year, £21,000) is in no way remarkable.
The balance-sheet, as showing the real position
of the Queensland National Bank, is of about as little
value as usual. When the great investigation took place
at the end of 1896 the deficit was estimated at about
£2,432,000. Against this there was a paid-up capital of
about £887,000, and some accumulated profits. Some-
thing approaching £500,000 of the loss was covered
by writing off some capital and all accumulated profits.
This apparently left the bank with a deficit of about
£1,900,000, against which there was some £450,000 of
capital remaining. This deficit of £1,900,000 was partly pro-
vided for on paper by the bank professing to write off one-
fourth (ss. in the £) of its reconstructed deposits, but
as it pledged itself to repay out of profits, when profits
were available, the sums allegedly written off, it can’t
fairly be said to be any more free of this liability than it
was before. The rest of the deficit, whatever it might
prove to be, remained as an asset in the balance-sheet,
to be gradually written off as profit allowed. All that is
definitely known, therefore, is that there was an apparent
deficit, some four or five years ago, of about £1,900,000,
with £450,000 of capital to set against it. And since
June, 1897, £219,160 has been earned, and the shortage is
reduced by that amount, if no further losses have been
made or discovered in the interim. Also, it may have
been further reduced by the sale of securities at more
than their written-down value—or again, it may not.
The Bcudetin is still of opinion that this indefinite way
of presenting a balance-sheet is a mockery. A balance-
sheet ought'.to show the exact position of the concern,
however disastrous, and should reveal the whole deficit.
Even if a great part of that deficit is only liable to be
liquidated out of profits it is still some kind of a liability,
and should be shown as such. ,
The best features about the Queensland National
Bank are that the gross profits are increasing, a certain
amount of progress is being made at reducing the deficit,
and a most unpromising asset (called “ Private ledger
accounts —debts in suspense pending realisation of
securities ”) which presumably includes most of the
deficit which wasn’t nominally provided for by the
writing off of deposits, is being steadily reduced. In
December, 1897, it stood at £742,835. It is now down to
£588,317, a reduction of £154,518, the amount cleared off
each half-year being :
June, 1898 .. £ll,BlO June, 1900 .. £17,925
December, 1898 20,013 December, 1900 21,166
June, 1899 .. 16,000 June, 1901 .. 23,036
December, 1899 14,987 December, 1901 29,581
Since December, 1897, also, the amount of the recon-
structed deposits, as shown in the balance-sheet, have
been reduced by a trifle—about £171,000 out of about
£4,950,000. The reserve of cash and liquid securities
(£1,780,350) is very solid indeed in proportion to liabilities.
But the new deposits are not increasing—they remain
stationary at a little over £1,000,000. There is an uneasy
feeling, too, that very bad times are coming in debt-laden
Queensland, and even with moderately good times the
Q.N. Bank has a very long way to go before it gets on
to solid ground again.
• * • »
The Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. (Mel-
bourne) :
Written
Profit. Dividends. off. Reserves.
June,lB93 .. £4,657. .15 p.c. = £4,500.. £8,348.. £112,962
Dec., 1893.. 3,908.. 12J „ „ 3,750.. 25,000.. 88,120
June, 1894.. 2,288.. 74 „ „ 2,250.. .. 88,158
Dec., 1894 .. 2,265.. 7J „ „ 2,250.. .. 88,173
June, 1895.. 304.. Nil. .. .. 88,477
Dec., 1895.. 250.. Nil. ..45,000.. 43,733
June, 1896.. 1,702.. 4 p.c. = £1,200.. .. 44,235
Dec., 1896.. 1,779.. 5 „ „ 1,500.. .. 44,514
June, 1897.. 1,757.. 5 „ „ 1,500.. .. 44,771
Dec., 1897.. 1,706.. 5 „ „ 1,500.. .. 44,976
Juno, 1898.. 1,722.. 5 „ „ 1,500.. .. 45,198
Dee.. 1898.. 1,101.. 5 „ ~ 1,500.. 42,000.. 2,799
June, 1899.. 1,954.. 5 „ „ 1,500.. .. 3,253
Dec., 1899 .. 2,693.. 5 „ „ 2,250.. .. 3,696
June, 1900.. 3,971.. 5 ~ ~ 2,250. .. \ R
Assets written up by 1,400.. .. / °> ol ‘
Dec., 1900.. 3,746.. 5 p.c. = 2,250.. .. 8,313
June, 1901.. 2,795.. 5 „ „ 2,250.. .. 8,858
Dec., 1901.. 2,783.. 5 „ „ 2,250.. .. 9,391
The earnings appear to be slightly on the down grade
a train. Receipts from investments are improving, but
the fall is in the earnings of the trustee business.
There is no very great margin of earnings over and above
the 5 per cent, dividend and it would be much wiser to
pay 4 per cent, and make better progress at the rebuild-
ing of the reserve funds. And the co. still reckons its
£14,000 vvorth (nominal) of Australian Deposit and Mort-
gage Bank deposits at £14,000. though their present
market value is only about £12,000. Taking everything
into account, however, the outlook is much better than
it was between ’95 and ’9B, and something has been done
in the way of maV.ng good past losses.
The Sydney Exchange Co. showsa very material
improvement:—
Profits. Dividends. en Reserves.
June, 1897.. £987 7 per cent. «■ £lO5O £15,120
Dec., 1897.. 1592 7 „ „ 1050 15,662
June, 1898.. 1125 7 „ „ 1050 15,<37
Dec., 1898.. 1411 7 „ ~ 1050 £5OO 15,598
June, 1899.. 1068 7 „ „ 1050 15 ® 1 ?
Dec., 1899.. 1389 7 „ „ 1050 15,955
June, 1900.. 849 7 „ „ 1050 15. <54
Dec., 1900.. 915 7 „ „ 1050 15,619
June, 1901.. 498 7 „ „ 1050 15,067
Dec., 1901.. 1219 7 ~ „ 1050 15,236
* * * *.
Sydney Harbor Collieries Co. (not having found
the main seam) is, it is announced, going to work that
little 2ft. 6in. seam. But it wasn’t to work 2ft. 6in. of
coal that the co. sank its magnificent 3000 ft. shaft. Yet
when this paper suggested at the beginning that the
right thing to do was to test the ground by bore instead
of by shaft, the co. was very angry indeed.
* * * *
Great Cobar Copper Mine, N.S.W.: The
determination of the tributor-purchasers to submit the
question of the rescission, or otherwise, of the purchase
to a vote of the shareholders of the co., independently of
their own votes (which amount to three-fourths of the
whole), must have come as a lyddite shock to the host of
lawyers concerned in the case shortly expected to come
before the Equity Court. Nine years ago the famous
Great Cobar was a mining derelict, having been closed
down for nearly four years, and shares were unsaleable
at a shilling. On the failure of some London negotiations
for a tribute of the mine, a party of men, two of them
coal-miners, and the other a country medical practitioner,
attempted to solve the problem of producing copper at a
profit when the price of the metal was even lower than
it is to-day. Fortune favored them in two ways—by
their discovery that certain gold and silver values hitherto
unknown were in the ore, and by an exceptional rise in
copper value. In course of time the public went bald-
headed for the shares till they reached 85s. Neverthe-
less a section of shareholders made a decided stand
against the tributors, who, it must be admitted, were
the sole means of so enormously increasing the value of
the-property. Some 12 months ago the tributors pur-
chased the mine for £500,000, less an allowance for the
remainder of their tribute, which would have given a
cash distribution of about 90s. a share. Just as the
matter approached completion a gentleman claiming to
be a representative of powerful English capitalists, told
some of the dissatisfied section that he could easily
get something like a million and a quarter for the
property, and they started law proceedings. Some
arrangement was made to satisfy everybody in the event
of the representative of millions of waste money in
London getting over a million for the mine, but he failed
to make a deal in the Big Smoke. With the delays of
litigation has come the present copper slump, and the
dissatisfied shareholders have now the opportunity of
saying whether they will accept the distribution of half-
a-million, or keep their shares, and remain without
dividends until copper takes a substantial rise. The
conditions of copper-production at Cobar are entirely
different from what they were nine years ago. As in the
case of all other copper mines, the value of the
ore has decreased with the depth. It is not
too much to say that if the ore-bodies worked
out years ago existed in the mine to-day copper
could be produced at under £2O per ton, but the ore
has gone down so much in value that it is doubtful if it
can be made under £5O. Some of the furnaces have
already been shut down, and but for existing contracts it
is probable the whole mining and smelting plant would
close, and some 2000 men be thrown out of. work.
Should no agreement be arrived at, lawyers alone will find
steady employment at the Great Cobar.
• • * •
Sulphide Corporation’s report is better than it
looked through the cable. The year’s profit of £73,049
(the co.’s year closes with June) was made after allowing
£ll,OOO for depreciation, and £5OOO for interest on deben-
tures. The amount carried forward, £93,993 is big, the
directors admit; hut they wanted to be prepared for a
Sossible further fall in metal prices. They regard the
ontinental depression as mainly responsible for the lead
slump ; and as that depression can hardly go on
indefinitely they look for a recovery in lead before very
long. Curtailment of production through many mines
becoming unremunerative will also help to restore the
price, they argue; though as to that, metal statistics
show that a fall in price is often closely followed by in-
creased production, the result, no doubt, of the few big
producers straining to level up profits. Certainly both
the B.H. Prop, and the Sulphide Corporation have been
doing this. The most satisfactory item in the report is
the announcement that the zinc-concentrating plant—a
German patent—lately erected at the mine, is doing good
work, making a profit with spelter at even £l6. This
plant, which works only on hitherto-valueless middlings
and tailings, has been producing about 600 tons of zinc
concentrates a month ; but the capacity is now to be in-
creased to 1200 tons. Very shortly, also, a zinc-distilling
plant will be started at Cockle Creek.
• • • •
The steady fall in the lead market last year hit
the Barrier in two places—-it shrunk the quantity of
metal exported, and also the value of what did go out.
High ocean freights also practically wiped out the pro-
mising zinc industry ; from 15,204 tons zinc concentrates
in 1900 the exports dropped to 204 tons in 1901. The
district’s whole yield for 1901 was valued at £1,872,411
net, as against £2,642,700 in 1900, and £1,998,615 in 1899.
And the shrinkages were nearly all in the latter half of
the year.
• • • •
Broken Hill mines’ timber bill last year
amounted to £llO,OO0 — only just 10 per cent, of what it
was a few years back, when the square-set system of
mine-timbering was wholly relied on.
* • • •
Lead, which got down to within a few pence of
£lO in the last days of ’Ol, improved back to £lO 10s. be-
fore the middle of January. The share market responded
eagerly to the rise; though, seeing that the fall from
which this rise was a recovery was probably due to the
Xmas stagnation, there was not muoh to justify the idea
that the oorner had been turned at £lO, and that things
were permanently on the mend again. Most of the mar-
ket transactions appear to have been in the interests of
operators who had bought at big prices and wanted to
“ average,” and who jumped at the first upward turn as
indicating the touching of the bottom. There certainly
has been, during the last week or two, a much more hope-
ful feeling at Broken Hill itself—though Broken Hill’s in-
formation regarding the future of the metal market is
quite likely no better than Wooloomooloo’s.
* * * *
Commercially, Adelaide is deadly dull. The
depression at the Barrier hits it severely ; and, added to
that, the S.A. wheat yield is in the aggregate dis-
appointing. Very large quantities of hay have been cut,
fanners fearing to leave their crops for wheat in so un-
certain a season ; and hay is very cheap, the expected
demand from South Africa having hung fire. The
lately-busy machinery-making centre of Gawler is duller
even than Adelaide. The brightest spot ahead of the
State seems to be in connection with the wine-grape
yield, which promises exceedingly well.
* * * •
The copper slump has, for the timebeing, knocked
out the Parramatta, the French venture on Vorke’s
Peninsula, S.A., which, it seems, has latejy depended on
calls. The re-treatment of the Burra slag has also been
stopped, and the projected re-opening of the Burra mine
hung up. The wage-reduction on the big Moonta mines
has been effected without trouble, though scores of the
miners are now making for the West. The Hamley and
other mines have followed suit with a 10 per cent, cut—
and wages were humble enough even before the cut
« * * *
London and Globe Finance. Cabled from Lon-
don that the “notorious” company-promoter, Whittaker
Wright (up to a few months ago he was the “ famous,”
etc.) had given evidence in the Bankruptcy Court. He
accused the engineers employed by him of treachery, they
having misled him as head of the L. and G. re the value
of the Lake View Consols mine. The war, according to
Wright, completed the collapse of the co. His examina-
tion extended over two days ; on the second he admitted
having allotted blocks of shares to press-representatives,
including those of the Financial News, Financial Times,
Troth, Daily Mail, Citizen, Australian Mail and the
Empire. The next man to get on the “ stand” should be
the mining engineer against whom Wright’s accusation
was probably chiefly directed. What a tale he could un-
fold of the time when he received instructions to make a
sudden departure from the mine to meet Wright at Port
Said, having carefully barricaded the rich part of the
mine before going, also under instructions. lie met
Wright, and returned to the mine under the impres-
sion that the meeting had taken place with the know-
ledge and consent of the other members of the Board,
whereas it was unknown to any of these latter, and the
engineer was not made aware of the fact till long after-
wards. Also on that memorable occasion Wright agreed to
“ carry ” him for 2000 shares bought at £lO each and sold
at over £2O. The next meeting of the tw r o was
in London where the engineer went for the purpose
of getting his money, which he only screwed out of
Wright at the point of the pistol. Wright has for years
been bribing the London financial press, the general
rottenness of which is unequalled on earth- or probably
in hell. And that same press speaks quite severely of
Continental journals, which are said to take bribes from
Leyds.
• * * •
Mr. Charles Kaufmann, in expressing surprise a,t
the wonderful progress made by Kalgoorlie field since
last visit, said that he regards the big mines on the belt
as the greatest in the world. Not so very wonderful
after all, for that’s where Kaufmann’s interests are. They
have lifted him from American obscurity to the world-
fame of a mining millionaire. Of all the boomsters
Westralia has had, the astute Kaufmann is the
only one left that can spread his tail. After
all, he has been saved by two successes, the
Lake View mine, which he secured for working capital at
a time when neither he nor the sellers of it had the
faintest conception of its real value ; and by the Ivanhoe,
which he got on the basis of half-a-million, £250,000 of
which was cash. He floated a good number of W.A.
“cats” on which an immense amount of money was
wasted before they were abandoned, in fact some are
eking out an existence to-day. Kaufmann is silent on
this subject. His was a clever move to get his then boss,
Wright, to put all the “wild cats” together and allow
them to slowly die under the name of the Standard
Exploration Co. ; a cleverer move still to separate himself
from Wright before the latter’s downfall. By these moves
Kaufmann must have made at least a million and saved his
reputation.
• * * •
Merton’s Reward (W.A.): The sale of this
mine is again announced. Nothing is explained as to
why the previous alleged sales did not come off. It has
been sold a dozen times over, according to the news-
papers, which have a playful habit of selling mines on
rumor and never contradicting the statements. Wires
relating to W.A. mines are evidently received by the
Eastern dailies from only two sources, one communicat-
ing with the Register in Adelaide, the Argus in Mel-
bourne, and the Herald in Sydney, the other with the
S.A. Advertiser, Melb. Age, and Sydney Daily Tele-
graph. In respect to this sale one set of newspapers gave
it out that'After a long period of quiescence British
capitalists are again showing faith in W. A. mines. A very
big deal has just been accomplished, resulting in Mer-
ton’s Reward mine changing hands at a large figure. The
capitalist is Charles Kaufmann, and the figure is £300,000,
of which it is said that a preliminary payment has already
been made. F. Morgan, formerly underground manager
of Lake View Consols, has been appointed manager, and
has gone to the property with Kauftnann to take posses-
sion. No company is to be formed for some modths, as it
is intended to first thoroughly open up the mine in a
systematic manner before placing it on the market for
flotation.” Quite an unusual circumstance in W.A., where
the custom has been to float first and open up or close up
afterwards. As this mine has been worked by Merton
himself with a 20-head battery for some years, it should
be fairly well opened up already. The other set of news-
papers tell a somewhat different story—that Kaufmann
has seeured an option on Merton’s Reward, and is leaving,
accompanied by Messrs. Hamilton and Morgan,' to
thoroughly examine the mine, and that, if he is
satisfied with his inspection, Kaufmann will com-
plete the purchase before the end of the week, and
he and Merton will then probably leave for England
within the next 10 or 12 days. There is something wrong
here, too. Kaufmann is not exactly the man to buy a
mine for £300,000 and complete the purchase within a
week. He is very rich and given to throwing money
away at poker at times, but he is not quite so bad
as this. If questioned on the point he would probably
reply, “ Don’t you see me vink 1 ” Merton has been
prepared to sell his mine for the last two years, but
always wanted more than anybody was prepared to
give. Up to date, he has had many magnificent
promises, but few genuine offers. That he has taken
many thousands of ounces of gold out of the mine
is also vvell knowrn, and had he offered it when it
was nothing more than a surface show, but when the
boom was raging, he would have probably got a better
price than to-day, when the mine is equipped with a
plant and has been worked in many places. There are no
buyers of mines when there is no boom in London, but
if there is one man left who can handle this mine in the
absence of any London boom it is Kaufmann, who is pro-
bably impressed with that idea himself. It would be in
keeping with Kaufmann’s marvellous run of luck if, after
he bought it, Merton’s Reward turned out the biggest
mine in Westralia.
* » • *
Lake View Consols : Wired of chairman Govertt
that, if he has the slightest pretensions to mining know-
ledge, he cannot fail to be impressed with the equipment
of the mine and the amount of development work going
on. Unfortunately, it wants it all. Several levels in this
mine have been proved of little or no value. Much
diamond-drill boring has been done, but nothing much
has been found. It was a great mine, but its greatness
has departed. It is not alone in that respect. The
Associated near it seems to be pretty well worked out.
The little 6-acre block owned by the Central and West
Boulder was a fair surface show, hut the lense of ore
petered out in depth. The Kalgurli, on the same line as
the Associated, seems to have a consistent pipe of ore,
having considerable width but no length, and if it gives
out in depth, all is up with the mine. At £6 10s. a share
the L.V. Consols is an anomaly, and when the bears have
covered or are squeezed out, scrip will fall to £4 or so,
and unless something extraordinary is found in the mine,
that figure will be much above their value.
* * * *
Perseverance (W.A.): These shares have been
consistently rising for some months, and took an extra-
ordinary jump the other day from £lO cum div. to £l2 ex
div. —a rise equal to £2los. a share, or of £350,000. There is
no boom in the district or anything in the mine to war-
rant it. It is quite clear that it is a fight between Frank
Gardner and the bears, who put out thousands of these
shares at about half their present price, Frank
has been laying his lines for a bear-squeeze for
many months, and it looks as if he has suc-
ceeded. ’Tis said that in filling his own sale contracts
he made arrangements to pay heavy backwardation rather
than let the scrip get out. The rumor went through the
Australian market a few days ago that no scrip was avail-
able anywhere, that it now remains with Gardner to
put the shares to any figure he likes, and that it is not
unlikely they will be £l5 within the next week or two,
and may reach £2O ere he finishes the game. It is well
known that on the merits of the mine, which is rotten in
the bottom, they are not worth £5 a share—a price they
are bound to see after the bear squeeze is over.
**» . •
Adelaide and some other venturers are being
tried with a cobalt show at Kurnalpi (W.A.), said, of
course, to be no end of a good thing.
* » * -
Chillagoe : These shares more than doubled in
value the ether day. Tijey jumped from lOd. to Is. lOd.
and then stopped, just when the newspapers were saying
they were likely to go much higher. It has “ leaked
opt ” from information received from London that capi-
talists there were prepared to take up all the shares that
remained unallotted under the reconstruction scheme.
What magnanimity ! But isn’t it possible that this is a
move on the part of the debenture-holders? It is nob
likely that at the present moment they want to take
over the concern for the debenture debt. They prefer
to collect 6 per cent, interest instead, and if they are
forced to take it over a-t all they would rather wait until
another £100,009 or more has been spent on the mines
under the reconstruction scheme. Possibly they will not
object to another reconstruction scheme after this. It
will need more than one to make the Chillagoe mines pay
with copper under £5O a ton.
• • • •
Talisman Consolidated, M.L. : “Moses Moss,”
one of the men whom Whittaker Wright swore he had
bribed with blocks of shares, devotes an article in London
Truth to this mine. The few weeks it has taken his
paper to arrive in Australia are quite sufficient time to
prove Moses wrong, as usual. He said of the mine
that it would yield at least £3 per ton after all the initial
difficulties had been overcome, and that this would give
a net profit of nearly £lOO,OOO a year. Some 4000 tons a
month, he said, were being treated, and it would be easy
to treat 5000 tons a month. “ Here, then, is a mine
which is at presenteaming 15 percent., and will probably
earn 30 per cent, in the near future, the shares m which
have been knocked down by those who do not
understand the figures and possibilities to £1 ss.
This is an absurd price. Anyone buying _ Talis-
mans now has the prospect of very large dividends.
Those who have bought at higher prices should average
at once.” That is the Moses side of the picture; here is the
true one: The first crushing averaged 265. 6d., and, as
usual, it was put down to the mullock that went through
first (somehow, mullock always seems to do that). The
next crushing was 275. 6d. per ton, and the last 21s. The
quantity crushed averages only 2500 tons a month. In-
stead of going up from 255., as tipped by “ M.M.," they
have gone back to 15s. If “ M.M.” acted on his own
advice, he would be ruined many times a year. Of
course, if he gets his shares as Whittaker Wright swears
he does, he can afford to sell them cheaply. One could
hardly expect anyone with such a name as “ Moses Moss”
to be a mining philanthropist, but it is remarkable that,
in the face of Moses’ many—er —mistakes, that he should
be allowed to keep going.
* * * *
A farmer in the fire-swept Young district had
his standing crop of 1500 acres of wheat insured. After
he had it stripped and bagged, a fire burnt the lot, and
the insurance company refused to pay on the plea that
the policy was effected on the standing, not the harvested
crop—a legally correct position. Moral is obvious —
Insure from paddock to market 1
» * • •
The Gold Coast (W. Africa) : The Governor of
that colony reports that the output of gold from the
settlement has been decreasing for some time, that of the
hundreds of concessions registered during the year a
large proportion are not worth the paper they are written
on, and that many of the alleged mines had been salted.
An up-to-date nigger was caught in the act of salting, and
his method struck the Governor as remarkably clever.
He had a blow-pipe, and, just as the native jewellers blow
little beads of gold in their ornamental be;ul-work, this
little nigger blew little beads of gold into little crevices
of barren quartz. He then produced samples, and was
prepared to show where they came from for so mush spot
cash. This method of salting may be quite new. to the
Gold Coast Governor, but is as old as the hills in Aus-
tralia ; and the writer has no doubt that even on the
West Coast it is not necessary to employ a nigger to salt
a mine. He may do a little on his own account to work
off a concession—but after all, the prospectus is salted a
great deal oftener than the mine.
* » • •
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have i>jsued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.


VIP JONES COMPANY
w
Men’s Calf Boots, 265. 6d.
BOOT & SHOE
IMPORTERS
A GOOD BOOT
at a
MODERATE PRICE.
George & Barrack Streets
i
CAMERAS
From ss. up to £5O.
PHOTOGRAPHIC
COMPETITION^
4' £4O Cash Prizes.
Everybody can compete.
Libera.! Chances to win.
Easy Conditions.
SCHEDULE OF COMPETITIONS from .
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd.
PHOTOGRAPHIC
MERCHANTS,
66 King-street, Sydney; and 93 Queen-streat, Brisbane.
Agents : Craven & Co., 178 Collins-st., Melb; P. Ash, Elizabeth-st., Hobart; A. L. Tilly, 504 Hay-st. Perth,'
W.A.
Home Cigarettes.
THE LATEST BULLETIN.
They are the Sweetest, the Nicest, the
most Commonwealthiest Cigarette.
All Tobacconists.
Society
LEROY
LIQUEUR
BRANDY
Manly, the Sydney suburb of never return,
was treated to a specially grim exhibition last
week. A young lady bather, caught in the under
current, screamed for help, and a young man
immediately plunged in to save her. He, too, was
caught in the under tow, and a rush was made for
the life-line, and then the thing that always
happens took place. The rope was defective.
Some said it was rotten and broke, others said it
was not tied properly at the sections and cameun-
j-lc‘d anyhow, it parted. The young woman and
her would-be rescuer were drowned, and those
who tried to rescue them were recovered too
exhausted to stand. Now the dailies are teeming
with .suggestions how to prevent such happenings
m future. Meanwhile the first question is to find
out who was responsible for that life-line, and do
something to him. All the inspection and sub-
mspection in the world to very little so
Jong as it is an understood thing that neglect
brings no penalty upon either the inspector or the
inspected.
The Manly tragedy, happening towards the
end of a week, was a great boon to the ferry
company which carries the public d'own to the
waterside village. Saturday and Sunday, whilst
the police were dragging for one of the missing
bodies, thousands lined Manly beach, eager to get
a glimpse of a swollen, discolored corpse, and
speculating as to whether it would be much eaten
by the fish or not. The loathsomely morbid
wretches—men, women and children—in some
cases camped about the place all day, and only
dragged themselves away when the police ceased
work. Public decency would be served—even if
no reform of individuals was secured—by the
wholesale arrest of such ghouls, on a charge of
obstructing the beach, or being found in a public
place for an unwholesome and diseased purpose.
A Sydney paper is raising a subscription to
erect a memorial to the man who lost his life in
trying to rescue the woman victim of Manly surf-
bathing. The man was married and had a family.
Perhaps his widow and children would be the
better of something more practical than a stone
over their dead bread-winue»*
A MODERN ALEXANDER.
SONNY : “ Boo_hoo, Johnnie Smith’s goin' to
another school.”
AUNTY : Don't cry; I didn’t think you were so
fond of him as all that.”
SONNY : "I isn’t; hut he’s the only bloke in my
class I can whop!”
Extract from a letter from London •
to the Guild-
-45.! Welcome to our Prince and Princess ! ”
From Richmond River Express, iO/l/’O2:
A recently registered baby of Sydney was named Fern
Tree. Names of-parents—T. Tree and Rose Tree. Other
names, PeaoH Tree, A.X.L. Tree, Wattle Tree, and Euca-
lyptus Tree.
* • * *
"Adventurous voyagers from the north
bank of the Yarra at Spottiswoode (Vic.), to the
southbankat Port Melb., have had
their minds set at rest on one point.
The Crown Solicitor has issued an
opinion covering several sheets of
foolscap, that the punt is not a
steamship within the meaning of the
Act, aqd that it is not
necessary that the man who
pulls the lever should hold
a marine engineer’s certifi-
cate. A steamship, ac-
cording to the definition
of the Act, is any ship
propelled by steam; a
ship is interpreted to
mean any vessel used
in navigation and not
propelled by oars. As
the punt in question is
noi propelled by oars,
there is still a doubt
if it isn’t legally a
three-masted ship on
the high seas, and re-
quires, accordingly,
an anchor, a bos’n
and a midshipmite,
but, doubtless, the
law will settle this
point also if the
foolscap holds out.
There are very few
points the law can’t
settle if the foolscap
holds out.
A much-aggrieved
man hits out in the Ayr
Chronicle (N.Q. ) in this
fashion: “I, the under-
signed, wish to inform the public that the person
who claims to be my wife has neither right nor
title to any such claim.” Signed, Thos. P.
* * * *
Sydney’s new railway station involves the
destruction of one historic church, the Pitt-street
which was opened by Dr. Fullerton
m 1838. Ihe last service in the church was held
this month, and those who put nothing else in the
plate put in a tear. As the congregation will get
fron? £40,000 to £60,000 for the site, its sorrow at
the loss of the old tabernacle has a solid cash
alleviation.
SURPRISING,
WAYBACK (to Furtherback) : “ I’m told these ’ere
sharper fellers can always tell us country
chaps !”
The Australian girl, in her early years,
before she can fix up a yarn about her honor
(Grippsland Times quote)•
Two little girls went to Sunday school, and heard an
address about the infant child Jesus, and how He was
eventually crucified. Next day they got the two-year-old
brother and called him the infant Jesus. One of the girls
came into the house and got a hammer and nails, and the
mother, wondering what the youngsters were up to, went
out to investigate, and found the boy stretched out on
the floor and his sisters in the act of nailing him down.
They intended crucifying him.
A Queenslander, well-known in the
sugar business, telegraphed lately to a
shipping agency to secure a berth in a
boat bound for a southern port. The
telegram, after the manner of its kind
made it appear that Mrs. A. wanted the
berth, m place of Mr. A., who, all-un-
suspecting, went aboard just before the
ship sailed, made a bee-line for the cabin
marked on his ticket, and fearing mal de
mer quickly- put himself to bye-bye in the
top berth. Some hours later he was
awakened by a sound that froze the very
marrow in his bones—an unmistakably
female cough in the bunk below. It was
followed by the lament of a lady who
sam she was sure she was going to die.
Ihe cabin was pitch dark, and there was
nothing to be done save to lie still and
pray for rescue. Sleep was impossible,
especially as day dawned and showed
garments trimmed with “invisible lace”
and nic-nacs all about the cabin. At
last came the stewardess, in answer to
the feeble wail from the berth below,
lhe male in the upper premises made
mute and wild gesticulations for this
angel of mercy to come near while he
whispered in her ear, but she only gave a
little shriek and vanished, returning in a
few minutes followed by the husband of
the occupant of the lower berth. He
grasped the situation, helped the Queens-
lander to escape, disguised in the bed-
clothes, and it was explained to the occu-
pant of the lower bunk that the lady up
above had been removed owing to severe
illness—alcoholism, complicated by in-
growing toenail, or something of the sort.
* * * *
The Chinese gambling den flourishes
apa,ce m North Queensland, and the Cau-
casian youth of Townsville, Cairns, and
Charters Towers are corrupted accordingly. The
other day, a Townsville newspaper printed
letter from a well-known citizen, wherein
the latter told how he visited certain local
fan-tan places and noticed policemen among
the habitues. One member of the “ foorce ”
took a hand in the gamble, and explained to the
citizen aforesaid that, inasmuch as the authorities
disregarded the reports (re Chinese dens) sent in
by the police, the latter considered that the
gambling dens had received official sanction, and
were to be regarded as legalised institutions. The
.North is, indeed, a festive land.
“I 1 .” ; Some of the members of the Vie.
society for the prevention of cruelty
to superannuated painters recently
elected for life six “Policemen
Art, 5 called academicians.
1 hey have the power to elect or
reject associates and to add to
their own number up to 12.
They still remain six—Pater-
son, Mather, M'Cubbin, Lou-
reiro, Withers and Richard-
son. According to the regu-
lations it takes four acade-
micians to elect an associate,
so when one of the guardians
is away, two men, by" working
in union, could block any future
rival. It is always foolish to
erect artificial barriers of this
sort, for other, and perhaps
better, painters may come along
to seek admission in vain. This
would harm the society rather
than the particular painter, for
no true artist can benefit by
carrying round his neck such a
label as “Academician, Associate,or
Honorable Mention.” His own merit must be
his only passport to success.
N.S.W. military officers are just now
agitated about a “Cape cart.” A gallant officer
in South Africa informed his parents that he was
forwarding a Cape cart as a Christmas present for
his father, a brother warrior kindly undertaking
delivery. On arrival in the State this latter pro-
ceeded to cut a dash with the girls, driving them
round in his Cape cart. A demand for instant
delivery by the consignees only annoyed him, and
he drove the girls round more than ever. Pressure
from headquarters was brought to bear on the
officer, who then stated that it was really his own
vehicle, that he had lent it to the thoughtful
son at the front, and that young man had no right
to promise it to his father or anyone else. A
violent controversy on the subject was suddenly
ended by the Imperial people, who got to hear of
the row and impounded the Cape cart on the
general principle that if it wasn’t theirs it ought
to be.
UNREGENERATE AUSTRALIA.
PARSON: My boy, arc you not aware that smoking
is bad for the throat? ”
LITTLE BILLY : “ I reckon it is. I'm simply hoarse
from telling people to mind their own business."
Both the Adelaide dailies (which do noi
often get anything like a sensational murder)
boomed the Towitta case in the most aggressive
way, keeping special relays of cyclists and horse-
men on the bad and frightfully hilly track between
the scene and the nearest telegraph-office. A
motor-car was tried, but broke down at once. By
flaring head-lines and posters, and announcements
of the preparations made for getting news away,
public interest (not specially keen to begin with)
was at last really worked up.
THE SONG OF THE SKIRT.
[F OR THE BULLETIN. ]
With Angers daintily gloved,
A woman, serene and fair,
Is clutching the train of her white delaine
As she haughtily takes the air—
Hitch ! hitch ! hitch !
She feigns to avoid the dirt,
But the track of her feet on the germ-strewn street
Is swept by a trailing skirt.
Drag ! drag 1 drag !
Wnilst the dust-Aend Airts around.
Drag ! drag ! drag !
When the mud befouls the ground.
'Twire better she were a slave
Of a rational-costumed Turk,
To drowsily dream in a, clean hareem,
If this be Christian work.
Drag ! drag ! drag !
Through a mile of powdered grime.
Drag ! drag ! drag !
Through slushes of evil slime.
Tram-car, street, and shop,
Shop-floor, asphalt, and tram,
The long skirt sweeps where the microbe creeps—
In the wake of la belle madame.
0 ! women wi£h kindred dear !
0 ! mothers, daughters and wives !
It is not gowns you are,knocking out,
But human creatures’ lives.
Hitch ! hitch I hitch I
While scientists shrill assert
That the elegant tail you partially trail
Is a shroud as well as a skirt.
Drag ! drag ! drag !
As fisher-folk drag the seas,
You trail your dress for the typhoid mess
And the relics of lung disease.
Hitch ! hitch ! hitch 1
At furbelow, frill, or tuck ;
Your figure looks sweet as you cross the street,
Though your title is Lady Muck.
With fingers daintily gloved
A woman serene and fair
Is clutching the train of her white delaine
As she walks with a queenly air.
Drag ! drag ! drag !
’Tis little she heeds the dirt;
But still in a tone of regret sincere,
Would that the woman inclined her ear !
We sing this song of the skirt.
LOVE ME TO-DAY,
[F OR THE BULLETIN. ]
Love me to-day—for this ambrosial space
Take thou my hands and smile into my face ;
Give me those kisses thou hast held in store
So many empty days ! Nay, I implore,
Be prodigal—a spendthrift of thy grace.
Oh ! but to-morrow is a distant place,
And yesterday a barren land of yore ;
To-day I live who knew not life before—
Love me to-day 1
MAGGIE SULLIVAN.


J.D.K.Z. GIN.
Only a little higher in price than other gin
but absolutely the best in the world. One size
only—largest size, each bottle contains 1 quart
and l-15th. Full strength, 16 - 5 u.p. It is manu-
factured by Messrs. Jno de Kuyper and Zoon
Rotterdam. It is the best known and most,
largely used in every country. Those who are
careful about the quality of the stimulant they
take should ask for J.D.K.Z., and they will get
the best value for their money. Agents for
N.S.W.: LUCAS LOCK & CO., Macquarie
Place, Sydney.
E AFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY, Is, 2s 6d, ss,
For all Diseases of the Air Tracts,
-p AFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY
it) Has permanently cured over 500 Sufferers.
E AFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY.
Literature of Disease, Treatment: post 6d.
T> AFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY
gent complete, throughout Commonwealth, post 7/6
E AFFAN’S CATARRH REMEDY,
Rapid and Permanent, for the Ears, Throat, Nose.
RAFFAN, Pharmacist, MELBOURNE.
11l
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write tor Travellers’
Gazette, and Sailing List with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
SILVER STAR STARCH.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
*
k
Ml
and
IN DOUBT.
MR. SAWKINS (uncertain of his address, rings up his housekeeper): “Ish this number twenty-
shia?” HOUSEKEEPER : " Of course it is, sir! ”
MR. S.: “ Well, come out and look at me and see if I’m the man that lives here.”
The rumor has been revived of a Protec-
tionist morning paper in Sydney—this time, on
the authority of “a gentleman high up in the
political world.” But the fact that the cable
syndicate agreement between the Australian
papers has just been renewed for two years
severely discounts the probability of a new morn-
ing paper being published. The various Austral-
asian papers—from the Age, Argus, Herald, and
Telegraph, right down to the smallest Maoriland
sheet—“ pool” the London cable news and pay a
share of its cost, proportioned to their importance.
So, if £30,000 a-year is spent, the share of a
Sydney morning daily would be only, say, £3OOO.
A new morning paper would not be admitted to
the syndicate, and (allowing a 50 per cent, dis-
count for the stupidity of the present cable ser-
vice) it. would cost it £15,000 to give as good a
column of European news as that now provided.
Difference between £3OOO and £15,000 a-year
would cripple any new paper. .
« * * v' ’ *
A Melbourne man writes about a new re-
ligion—so new that the paint isn’t dry on it yet:
On Sunday night I went to Parson Dowie’s up-to-date
propaganda in this city. As there’s no polygamy about
it the enthusiasm is not vast. Small attendance, in the
Victoria Hall, which architect, the Hon. Billy Pitt, has
just decorated in a charming manner. Six deyotees on
stage, half of them ladies. Two Dowie-ites have come
as evangelists, called Overseers. The one I heard is a
dull fellow, but the other is said to be a trifle superior to
General Booth. But there is no permanent hope for
Dowieism, or Christian Science, or Mormonism, except
as vulgar temporary money-making devices. They don’t
come from Asia. Asia is the only place where they build
successful religions Christianity, Mohammedanism,
Buddhism, Brahminism ; all the world’s religions are
Asiatic. Creeds are Asia’s chief exports. .The man who
tries to start a completely new faith —one that begins
with a European or American revelation or prophet—has
a hopeless contract on hand.
* » * •
Maoriland is the place of romantic suicides.
Also, the romantic suicide is generally absurdly
foolish. Some time ago a young couple, who had
got married and spent more money than they
bargained for on the honeymoon, passed through
the veil because they had less than they, had
hoped for with which to buy the furniture.
Now comes the case of a young Maori bride whose
husband went off to a temporary job, and got two
jobs where he had only expected one. Meanwhile
his pretty wahine, for whom he was making cash,
came to the conclusion that he couldn’t stay away
from her for three whole days unless there was
some other cat to keep him, so she shot herself in
the chest and died. Romance is a deadly thing !
“Melb.”: Salvation Army had an extra-
ordinary shivoo in Bevan’s church, January 6.
One hundred ladies and gentlemen were com-
missioned as officers, to start forth at once. They
come from all parts of Australasia, and go to all
parts. Six months’ training in the new college,
next to the Fire Brigade, has furnished them with
all necessary (qualifications. One hundred more
collegians go in at once, and will also be turned
out, like pickled salmon or canned lobster, strictly
to order, next July. All this is very fine, but
it is like pouring water into a cullender. Your
theatre-ticket is taken by an ex-Salvation Army
officer. He takes your dust-bin, humps your
portmanteau from the wharf, cries “Ser-veep!”
(grimly suggestive of his old friend Lucifer, son of
the morning), and you find him driving an omni-
bus or taking tram fares. It is even alleged that
an ex-major and an ex-lady captain run wine
shop? There is no trade so bad that it won’t pay
the sweated Salvationist to take to it, rather than
go on salvationing.
The latest woman-attempted-assault-tale
comes from" Victoria. The victim is a 53-year-old
maiden lady; she says that for four hours she
successfully resisted her assailant, who, “seeing
•that day was breaking,” relinquished his attempt.
This Homeric conflict took place in the garden.
* • * *
The latest development in connection with
the sensational Ariadne case, in which Caradoc
Kerry, Eric Freke and George Mumford have to
stand trial for casting a vessel away on the Maori-
land coast, is the re-arrest of Mumford forendeavor-
ing to suborn a witness, Annie Downing, a Sydney
barmaid, who gave most damagingevidence at the
lower court inquiry. She allegedly heard Kerry
and Mumford make the compact in her bar for the
destruction of the yacht. Mumford, who appears
to be charged with a fatal disposition to open his
mouth too wide, met and dined with this hostile
witness, and, according to her account, offered
her something handsome if she contradicted her
previous story. The pair next met by appoint-
ment in a hotel, two ’tecs, being hidden behind
the curtains. They were discovered by Mumford,
however, before the conversation had proceeded
very far, and the eavesdroppers then arrested him
for offering refreshment to a witness for wrongful
purposes, or some such charge.
* * * *
Melbourne papers are wailing again with
increased bitterness over the failure to get the
Fever Hospital into working order. This was
one of the institutions intended as a monument to
the memory and greater glory of the late Queen.
It still stands, a brick shell with the vagrant
winds blowing through its empty wards, an elo-
quent memorial which should bear this inscrip-
tion :— ■
Sacred to the Memory of the alleged Love and Devotion
of a Great Population which imagined itself distracted
by the Death of its Queen, and wasn’t.
Both morning dailies urge the State Premier to
remove the shame from Melbourne’s. reputation
by supplying money to finish the hospital. Mean-
while, the spirit of the deceased monarch is sup-
posed to be staring reproachfully out of the un-
glazed windows at a callous people.
* * * *
Victorian Board of Health has been pro-
viding some interesting “ copy.” on the
subject of trailing skirts. At its last
meeting Councillor Wood wanted
the Board to instruct its secretary
to write to the Countess of Hope-
toun, Lady Syd. Clarke, the
ladies of the Austral Salon, etc.
urging them to set the example
of wearing short skirts. Other
members refused to take the
proposal seriously. Probably
they all know, how useless
and ridiculous it is to reason
with a woman about herdress.
That old warrior, Coun-
cillor Shoppee, of Ballarat,
put the matter in a very
few words : “Lord Hope-
toun has already expressed
himself publicly in favor of
shorter skirts, and, if his
influence is not sufficient to
get Her Excellency to lead
the fashion in short skirts,
I’d like to know what
chance the Board of
Health has ? ” Councillor
Wood, seeing that the
Board was against him,
remarked that when
women went through the
streets holding up their
trailing skirts “ they
looked half-way be-
tween stuffed, bags and
prop-sticks with clothes
on.” Therein Wood struck
a far brighter idea than his
original one. If he can persuade an influential
section of the male community to shudder ob-
viously when the long-skirted woman, goes by—to
shudder at her dirty skirt-tail when it is down
and at her bunched and bundled shape when
the tail is up—a reform will begin to set in.
A Queensland ruffian was
recently fined for tying up his 10-
year-old son in a chaff-bag, and
keeping him there for a week
at a time—only letting him out
for food. He also admitted
bruising the child with kicks, and
with blows of a heavy stick. The fine imposed
amounted to the magnificent sum of 10s. Pre-
sumably this is another outbreak of the J.P.
system. The great J.P. idea, whereby a store-
keeper deals out justice to his best customer, is a
blot on Australia.
* * * *
The appearance of a shoal of nautilus in
Hobson’s Bay recently started a new and profit-
able industry. The fish were the paper nautilus,
and the shells were in great demand at ss. apiece,
consequently every unemployed rushed the sands
from Port Melbourne to Black Rock, hunting the
shellfish. Hundreds were secured and found ready
buyers in the city. An ex-fisherman earned £l2
in two days. A demand for nautilus shells for
Earlor ornaments at once set in amongst suburban
ousewives, and was met by enterprising young
men who hawked shells from door to door, and
did well at the game, till it was discovered that
their wares were papier-mache imitations “made
in Germany.”
Premier Barton, of Australia, and Premier
Seddon, of Maoriland, are invited to the corona-
tion of Edward VII. as the guests of the British
nation, with all expenses paid. The Australian State
Premiers are invited to attend and pay their own
ex’s. As the cable puts it ; “ Their expenses will
not be paid, but their visit will be made agree-
able.” London will be a dreadfully expensive
place at coronation time, and already Peacock and
Philp say they aren’t going, and See and Jenkins
are doubtful. If the British Government knew any-
thing about the price of victuals, it would select
Peacock, of Victoria, and Lewis, of Tasmania, as
the two men to be put on the free list, and make
all others pay. A great number of large, healthy
men with sound appetites will be living at
Britain’s expense next June, while pale, dyspeptio
statesmen who could be boarded economically are
paying their own bills.
* * * *
Mr. Thaddeus, the Royal Hibernian
painter, now has his pictures—all of them—in the
committee-room of the N.S.W. National Gallery,
“ awaiting the decision of the trustees.” The
State can reckon itself lucky if Mr. O’Sullivan
insists on buying only one of the batch; it may
have to pay for half-a-dozen.
latest Australian industry—“floating a.
man.” The man must be able to do something,
however indifferently—paint, draw, write, sing,
whistle, or tell stories. The floater, who must
know people and be able to pull political strings,
takes nim in hand, and, for a commission, places
his work, secures for him orders, and so on. Since
there are few rich fools in Australia, it is the State
cow that is generally milked by the “ floater.”
* * * »
A Maoriland maidservant of very religious
views, otherwise exemplary,
never took kindly to the job
of preparing her mistress’s
morning tub. Leaving,
sbg spoke out her reli-
gious mind : “If
you’d been washed
in the Blood of
the Lamb, you
wouldn’t want
a bath in your
bedroom
every
morning.”
FORETHOUGHT.
THE ANCIENT (who wedlocked a young bride in
his sixties, and is now getting his hand in):
“Ah, I can see youngsters are a bit of a
trouble in infancy, but I’ll bring mine up in
the way they should go that they may be a
comfort to me in my old age. ."
Pascoe’s fresh book on Adelaide gives the
history of the Register and ’Tiser. One cannot
exactly make out which is the True-Blue Liberal,
and Caesar and Pompey are not more alike than
these two. Indeed, it is a fault of the rival dailies
in all Australian cities to be too much of a tran-
script of each other. If two boys go looking for a
lost coin, they will keep together, each afraid lest
the other should find it. It is often the same with
two papers looking for the public’s penny.
TE DEUM LAUDAMUS.
“Deaths in the concentration camps for
September and October, nearly GOOD —say 3000 a
month—or, roughly speaking, a hundred daily! ”
’Mic| the sound of many curses,
Comes a tale of tender mercies
From the blood-red veldt and valley where they chase
the stubborn Boer:
For, though burgher bows to no man,
Yet the dear ones of our foeman
Lo ! They die, a hundred daily, in the blood-red land of
War!
So the godly British people
Bing the bells in spire and steeple,
Lift the strain of wild rejoicing as their fathers did of
yore;
And the sound of song and psalter
Tells in joy at God’s high altar :
“Lo ! They die—a hundred daily—in the blood-red land
of War ! ”
And they chant, both young and hoary,
“ Unto Thee, 0 Lord, the glory
Of our foemen, bent and broken by a means untried
before ;
Of their women fair who perish,
Of the children whom they cherish,
And who die —a hundred daily—in the blood-red land of
War! ”


,mn
KEITH’S CALF GOL. BALS., Welted, 14s. 6d.
if you wish to Place
yourself on a good
footing , , , , ,
GO TO
MARK FOY’S
FOR
YOUR
BOOTS
Little can be said against long skirts in
regard to their effect upon the appearance of the
female form divine. The switching up of the
flowing frock affords a liberal display of curves
and shapeliness. Sometimes, indeed, when the
garment is drawn very tightly over a “full
figure, the display is—well, liberal enoir ' <>
satisfy the most exorbitant male eye. Em
all, shapeliness of form, be gowns worn lon<> ;
or medium, is best achieved by the P.D°coi t
everywhere recognised as the most attractive and
artistic figure improver.*
■pO INTERSTATE VISITORS and OTHERS.
J.
CLUSKY
(of ADELAIDE),
Has REBUILT the ROYAL EXCHANGE, SYDNEY,
Corner of George and King Streets,
with Baas and Dining Rooms thoroughly
up to date.
CHARLES
HEIDSIECK
Original Brand CHAMPAGNE
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO
HIS MAJESTY KING EDWARD VII.
AS SUPPLIED TO
THE BRITISH ADMIRALTY and WAR OFFICE.
ALL LEADING CLUBS and HOSPITALSj &0., &o.
Australian Representatives
SWIFT & CO., 7 Spring St., Sydney
A WOMANS LETTER.
Sydney, January 21, 1902.
My Dear Arini.—
Several marriages are coming off presently.
Mr. Lindemann, of wine fame, and Miss Dight,
of Albury, are going to do the wedding march!
So are Mabel, a daughter of Mr. George Watson,
and Mr. Stewart Osborne, of Moss Vale. But if
certain persons are going into matrimony others
are trying to get out. There are alarms and ex-
cursions in a certain very high-class, water-front
suburb, and among military feminine sets, over a
divorce case alleged to be pending.
Miss Florence Greaves, of “St. Helen’s,” Bur-
wood, a pretty blonde artist-girl who has exhi-
bited some good work at the Soc. of Artists’
shows, is engaged to be married to Mr. W. Motf-
lin, of “ Tokann,” Strathfield.
Miss Lillian Digges, the childish Little Alice of
Wonderland,” doesn’t look more than 12 in her
pink frock and pinafore, but she is 20, and has
been married a few years. Her husband is Lieu-
tenant Deacon and is on one of the fleet vessels
stationed at Gibraltar. Captain Thompson, of the
commissariat department at Garden Island, is her
brother-in-law, he having married, a sister of
Lieut. Deacon.
A new claimant has arisen as the discoverer of
Amy Castles—or, truly speaking, an English
paper has invented a discoverer. The paper
prints a portrait of Amy, looking dreamy-eyed
out of a cloud of hair, as “ the little Irish-Austra-
lian who was discovered by Lady Brassey.”
Last Sunday an important decree was read
from B.C. altars regarding mixed marriages. The
v 4iurch breaks out at intervals very heavily
against the practice of R.C.’s marrying into fancy
religions. It does a regular southerly buster of
censure against the practice, and then lies, or
rather blows, low again. But it never ethically
padlocks the gate between Catholics and noii-
Catholics and then throws away the key.
Ihe gate is kept on the latch, so to
speak, and, however reluctantly, it is opened
occasionally. Same with divorce. That is
allowed or disallowed in a rather movable-
least manner. Also, the re-marriage of divorced
persons. In Melbourne, a short time back, a
well-known man divorced his wife (she didn’t
want him, and had been out of the State for
years). Then he sought to marry, in her own
church, a devout R.C. girl. The difference of
creed could be arranged for, but not so his divorce.
Church wouldn’t marry them, so they took the
alternative of civil marriage. About the same
time a medical man in the same city was divorced
jy his wife (to his great joy), and he immediately
married an R.C. damsel, in her own church, with
considerable glitter and “The Voice that breathed
oer Eden,” etc.
I have been trying to imagine wnat difference a
variety of creed would have made to a love such as
that of Professor Goodwillie and his Lucy, in
Barrie’s play, “The Professor's Love-Story.” A
sweeter play has never been put on the Sydney
stage, using the saccharine word in its wide sense
of healthy human charm. There isn’t much out-
right laughter in the Prof.’s 1.-s., save when the
antithesis of his love-making—that of Effie Proctor
and the two Bobbie Burns' laborers—takes place.
Smiles are there all the time, and tears not so
very far off as you might think. It is
an idyll, but people who want their
plays to jump about will long for “What
Happened to Jones.” Mr. Arnold, as the young
old professor with the heart of a child, is great
and simple. Miss Dot Frederics (she must take
ones in shoes) as the secretary is an attractive
piece of fluff, just the kind that gets into the cog-
wheels of a brainy intellect like the Prof’s. A little
widow is a dangerous thing. There’s one in this
story, and Miss Bensusan embodies her so beauti-
fully, so raspingly, that you think how glad the
dear departed must have been to get disembodied.
Miss Hope Mayne, who always reminds me of the
young person in Scripture who mashed a king and
demanded the head of John the Baptist on a
charger, takes the role of wife to a big, good-look-
lng, silly M.P., and doesn’t run him through the
solar plexus with a hat-pin when he pulls her hat
P le r < LL t ? s , ee how ifc ’ s trimmed. Mr. Sharp as
Pete, Effie s lover, had evidentlv rolled himself in
a yellow clay duck-pond, and then- dried himself
in the sun. But he and the other spade-bearded
lover make the heartiest laughter of the piece.
Miss Agnes Knights, who strolls with fine cyni-
hrough her part as the Professor’s sister in
the Love Story,” wears a very thoroughbred-
looking frock of black and white checked silk.
On one shoulder is a black chiffon rosette from
which fall two long ends of chiffon held in bondage
by her belt. This fashionlet of the chiffon inside
the belt is “ coming in,” so my modiste tells me.
There was no Cinderella dressing in W.A
during the Gov.-General’s visit. Published
accounts of the garden party at Govt House read
like a description of the gowning at a Melb Cup
meeting. The State Governor, Lady Lawley, and
Hopetoun received under the shade of a beautiful
magnolia tree in full flower, which sounds cowl
sensuous scenty, and appropriate. It is to be
hoped that the G.-G. was not bagpiped on the
occasion. Bagpipes would breakeven the spell
cast by a blossoming magnolia. Lady Lawley’s
gown was of white net, with full pleated flounces
on the skirt, edged with narrow black lace. Lady
borrest was in white silk, over a foundation of
mauve silk, with rare lace on the bodice. Mrs.
Yelverton O’Conor, in a gown of white and corn-
flower-blue silk, fitted well into the midsummer
landscape. The G.-G’s “holiday” programme
makes dizzy reading. After the water supply
scheme had been explained to him, lie frisked
through inspections of public buildings, museums.
an old chapel, and aboriginal weapons, listened
to addresses and bagpipes, attended concerts and
conversaziones, fled hither and thither by rail
and otherwise to mining centres, cavorted amongst
machinery, drove spikes for new railways, de-
scended into mines, lifted his hat to vulgar little
sandgropers who saluted him as “Hopev,” and
in replying to addresses spoke of the “ holiday ”
he was having. It suggests Atlas carrying the
sun round on his shoulders for a rest after being
relieved of the world.
Probably the most superb pearl the world has
ever seen.” This large statement is made re a
pearl just fished up at Broome, in the Nor’-West.
Its lucky owner, one Buddivent, has been boat-
building and pearling for the last 15 years—until
now without any special success. The pearl is
oblong, of a perfect lustre, and its length is Din.
Pearlers put values of from £9OOO to .£15,000 on
it. A few days ago it was in Perth, en route to
.London, vvhere it may have a front setting among
the great jewels at the Coronation.
Miss Mabel Lane, who takes the part of the
mother in Ben Hur,” is a Melbourne girl, but an
absentee m London for nine years. She is a tall,
nne-hgured girl, with the ravenest of hair, the
brunettest of complexions, and big eyes that don’t
quite fit her face in coloring, they being a slatey
grey. lhe countour of her face is very like
that of Maud M'Carthy. The beautiful evil genius
female m “ Ben Hur” will be Miss Mackay, an
Jiinglish rrish-Scoteh girl, the mere sight of whom
will make local johnniedom madder than the
Hatter in Wonderland. She is very tall, very
fair, very young, with smiling cat’s eyes—the kind
of eyes Swinburne describes in “Felice.”
Miss Mackay was playing lead, the lady detec-
tive, in “lhe Wrong Mr. Wright,” before she
became a Ben Hurite.
lie matinee hats. Know a woman who found
her view blocked by another woman in a colossal
hat. Asked the wearer to do her the favor of re-
moving the same. Woman replied, indignantly,
! j-j i t dream of doing so for anyone ! ’’—and
she didn t. Good remedy would be for theatrical
managements, if they are afraid of making the
wearing of a reasonable hat a condition of admis-
si?n, to hire services of an Amazonian female
with a hat higher than any before seen. Then
when some woman with a hat 3ft. in diameter and
plumes 40in. nigh, sat in the stalls and refused to
budge, plump the Amazon down in the seat right m
front of her. After that things might be left to regu-
late themselves. And what about matinee-goers
carrying a squirt of sulphuric acid and giving the
screen-hat a dose. This last is a man’s suggestion.
Concerning servant-girls who work in town for
12 months, then spend their savings entertaining
their friends: A correspondent writes that she
legularly employs three sisters —excellent servants
they are—who work under assumed names. Every
1" months they take a five or six weeks’ holiday
and go back to their native town with new dresses
and jewellery, and announce that they have been
staying with noli friends in, say, Hobart or M.L.
I hey assume “airs” and entertain to the full
extent of their savings, then come back “broke”
only to repeat the “break” again after another
year s labor. The psychological significance at
tue back ot tins line of action is worth some
sealch. Vanity and improvidence apparently,
though the sense of the blessedness of giving over
that of receiving may be a side cause. The shearer
knocks down his cheque in drink, the working
girl knocks down hers quite as flatly, but less
coarsely A serving damsel came to our house-
hold awhile ago, destitute—not a tram-fare. Been
frolicking up-country. Good references, though
She drew her 12s. in advance. Did she buy
aprons and a suitable frock ? No ; she bought a
3s. diamond-ring, a bottle of scent, a pair of open-
work stockings, a bag of lollies, and went to the
py at night. “Greed for Gold” was the
“ply.”
In Minister O’Sullivan’s registry office scheme
will servants have to give their mistresses a char-
acter ? Of course, they always do give a verbal one
outside their employer’s house; but will a written
one have to be produced before the employer
may engage another Helma ? (“ What Happened
to Jones has given us a new name for a slavey.)
If so, then will be the time for someone to write
111 „ a tragedy, “What Happened to
Obullivan. In Chicago some mistresses are
trying the eight-hour system and proving it a
failure, and, of course, very expensive. The
morning shift of cooks and housemaids comes on
duty at 7 a.m. and leaves at 3 sharp ; but the
relays are not so sharp in taking up the running.
Often a long interval occurs before the second
cook-lady is on hand to get dinner, or the second
housemaid to bring up the afternoon tea.
The recent presentation of a purse of sovereigns
and a bangle to the wife of a high military official
has left a waspish feeling in woinen-o’-war circles.
Mrs. Merino Bigwool, who was put at the head of
the collecting movement, intimated in her note to
the wife of a colonel that, as the military set was
not a rich one, any small sum, even a shilling
might be forwarded, and none but the executive
would be any the wiser. A most sane and kindly
suggestion, I think, but the woinen-o’-war’s point
of view was different. They might be Mesdanies
Job m poverty, but it wasn’t for Mrs. Bigwool to
remind them of the fact. They retired, declining
to gi\e battle or a shilling'. Mrs. Merino merely
shrugged her fine shoulders, saying : “Then I’ll
make the collection among the brewers’ and store-
keepers’ wives. _ They don’t know Mrs. , but
that’s a detail. ’ And the brewers’ and store-
keepers wives came down handsomely.
Modiste is a good word, and it reminds me of a
storyette I’ve had in a letter from London. An
actress, playing in the “ Wrong Mr. Wright ” de-
signed a frock for herself—a real picture done in
browns (the fashionable color is all brown you
know)—cigar brown, cocoa brown, roebuck brown,
and sparrow brown. It was as much poem as
picture, and directly it was finished she destroyed
the design. She had already made the modiste
promise not to do a replica. Well, before the
Right Mrs. Wright, or whatever her role was, could
wear the picture frock she fell sick, and her part
was taken by an understudy. But she got
instantly better, and broke things, when she
learned that the understudy wore another brown-
study the “dead-image” of the original design.
The modiste was just as angry as her customer,
for the copyright of the frock had not been in-
fringed in her establishment. A girl from a rival
house was arrested for stealing the design and
patterns of the brown materials. Of course, it all
boiled down to a case of petty larceny, but the
stealer described herself on the charge-sheet as a
“ modiste,” although she did nothing but take out
basting threads ; and the magistrate asked if “ the
removal of the basting threads was —ah—an im-
portant point in—ah—costuming.” And the real
modiste could do nicely with the heads of that
girl and that magistrate on a charger.
\ ery few persons not made in Germany know
of the long catalogue of Royal German divorces
which have taken place within memory of the
present generation. Late Queen Victoria steadily
refused to receive ladies who had divorced their
lords, or who had been divorced, yet two of her
grand-daughters are now in that put-asunder con-
dition, and her own mother-in-law was a divorcee.
I Ins poor lady, in order to free herself from the
brutality of her husband, the Grand Duke of
oaxe-Coburg-Gotha, eloped with a young cavalry
lieutenant. When her lawful Bluebeard divorced
her she married the lieutenant, got him a title,
and lived happily in Paris. When she died she
bequeathed him a considerable income on condi-
tion that he would never part with her corpse,
bo the poor man carried the mummy of Queen Vic-
torians mother-in-law about, even long after his
marriage to an another woman. Then enemies
stole it, hoping to thus do away with his income.
But they didn’t succeed ; it was decided that as he
hadn t voluntarily lost, dropped, or thrown away
Ins late wife, he was still entitled to the salary.
A study for the Science Congress : Those three
boys, aged respectively 7, 9 and 12, who have
been arrested in Maoriland charged with
attempting to poison their father by means
ot aconite. If they did it their reason will
be awaited with interest and curiosity. Dead-
wood Dick literature does not encourage par-
ricide. It may be that the old man had had
a Jong enough innings, and they thought the
property would be better managed by them in his
permanent absence. Or, peradventure, they had
no evil notion at all, and just gave Dad the dose
tail 8 Same s P If R as they would tie a tin to a dog’s
Concerning the Schippans I heard a debate
amongst some girls on a ferry steamer, and
it boiled down to this: “You couldn’t ex-
pect any good from a family that hung
its clothes m the pantry and didn’t wear
night-gowns. Portraits of Mary Schippan show
her to have a beautiful upper lip (by the way, is
one lip a feature?) full and finely curved, of the
kind that the writer of “Tangled Trinities” (a
popular current novel) gives the heroine as indi-
cative ot great passionate power and tenderness.
There are quite a number of women-under-
takers in Sydney, and, curiously enough, they are
all thin tendency of male undertakers is to get
why ‘'" d
By the way, there is an ever-increasing tendency
drifi'f^H ° f i the i Sy c dll , ey bvery-stable trade to
drift into the hands of the big undertakers, who
possess a specia advantage over their competitors
in being compelled to keep a lot of horses and
hinH Pt f word m this connection—on
band. But what a prosaic world. Think of being
taken for a drive by your best boy behind soot-
colored mokes tooled by a professional hearse-
liver. And just imagine the wedding carriages
coming from the coffin-makers ! °
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:
~ William Lyne is the most theatre-going of all
the Federal Ministers. During the Grand Opera
season the burly Minister for Home Affairs was
a regular spectacle in the front row of the d.c.
He sat for the most time, opera-glasses in hand,
gazing fixedly at the foreign angels on the boards
I eople began to think Oom Lyne a person with
music and culture in his soul, but the opera has
taken up its tabernacle and vanished, and Lyne
with pvwhI 6 ;? Spectaoles and soulless leg-shows
k y th * 6 ne ex P r ession that he wore in
the presence of the masterpieces of great com-
posers. It is a lugubrious countenance certainlv
uu a7ter r th?f° W | n - er ifc t 0 the theatre lights
up .after the fashion °f a great cathedral at mid-
night when somebody strikes a match.
“ A Melb. bride writes from Sydney’s favorite
hostelry, warning all her friends from honey!
mooning m that perspiring city. Seclusion is out of
,o of 2 ; ,eS M S ’ one trips over brides in every
nook of the building. The Jenolan Caves are a
delusion and a snare. In spite of their shady
glens, dark recesses and snug corners, the Caves
th!/ 0 ! J)OP i J a r t ,° a{ford that and seclusion
that a newly-linked pair desires. Sydney, she
wiites, is the sweetest locality in the world for
flotation, which is not spoilt but rather whetted
by mtenuptioii and publicity, but for rarer
t\ZZ tS f f *. bli T T d exclusive confidences, etc!
the city of the harbor is too public, and people
other people® mUCh time t 0 spend matching
“Electrician Jenvey-one of the enthusiasts in
w >reless telegraphy— took unto him-
self a wife the other day. Jenvey, who was and
probably stiU is, dearly beloved of the ladies of
WU P 'u WiiS i ong up as a hopeless
bachelor. He is the politest and most punctilious
officer the Postal and Telegraph Department
knows, and holds a record among scientists for
amiability. The scientist is, as a rule, a rather
grumpy fossil.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
The Pat Man Divided Against Himself
A “Taxpayers’ Union” has been formed in
Sydney, a slab from its preliminary circular being
as follows:
Believing that the predominance of the Labor and
Socialistic party represents an accidental, and not the
true, position of parties in our Federal and other Parlia-
ments, we are of opinion that the time has come for a
concerted general and earnest political opposition to the
present unfortunate situation. Little hut socialistic
legislation has been passed in the last decade, and tax-
payers interests have been practically neglected, if not
openly derided, and further legislation on the same lines
is to be anticipated if parties are allowed to drift on in
the present unsatisfactory manner. From interviews
with leading business men in Sydney and elsewhere, we
believe that an organisation to oppose further socialistic
legislation, further increases in land and income taxes
now vvithin measurable distance, and to maintain the
necessity for private enterprise and non-interference by
Government—such as building Government docks at
Newcastle, &c.—would be widely supported throughout
the Commonwealth.
What a handy scapegoat the “ Labor and Social-
istic Party” is when a crowd of inept Tories has
blundered into a hole. The Labor party doesn’t
predominate numerically in the Federal Parlia-
ment; it is only a fraction. It might be a power-
less fraction but for the fact that the Sydney
business men and importers and wire-pullers, and
their newspapers, knowing that a Protectionist
majority was practically certain in the Federal
Parliament, still insisted on sending in Reid,
M ‘Mill,an, Conroy, B. Smith, S. Smith, and others
of that ilk, and thereby so reduced the Govern-
ment majority as to make the comparatively small
Labor vote an influence that is often liable to turn
the scale. If the Sydney business men and their
daily papers would fall in line with the rest of
Australia, and would spread themselves to send in
a solid body of Protectionists, then the Govern-
ment would be independent of the Labor Party,
and that body wouldn’t “predominate.” If the
same crowd had stood by Dibbs, in N.S.W. State
polities, in ’94, instead of looking solely after its
importing interests, and had sent Dibbs back
with a big majority that made him in-
dependent of the Labor Party, he would
probably have told the Laborists, in his
wonted gentle fashion, to go to perdition,
and there would have been no land or income tax.
There would probably have been no One Man One
Vote either, if the Sydney crowd had stood by
Dibbs when he was Premier, instead of forcing
him to depend on the Labor Party for his precari-
ous majority. There would almost certainly have
been no old age pensions if the Sydney crowd had
made Lyne independent of Labor support.
Almost everything Labor has gained in N.S.W.
politics and in Federal politics has been gained
because the importers didn’t know when to come
in out of the wet. And they don’t know when to
come in out of the wet now, which is a blessed
thing for Australia. A Fat Man divided against
himself shall not stand.
4
Here is a specially-excellent sample from the
recent speech of William M‘Millan in the Pro-
testant Hall, Sydney: -
I understand that probably 75 per cent, of the clothing
of the people of this State is now manufactured within
its borders, and, indeed, has been for some time, without
any duty whatever ; yet in spite of this fact they have
put 25 per cent, upon the clothing of the whole of the
people of Australia, and the worst of it is this—and it is
the evil of the whole system—that although there may
be no necessity for the duty, the imposition of it gives an
opportunity for increasing the prices.
Also, though the M‘Billion couldn’t be expected
to mention that, it gives an opportunity for in-
creasing the wages. About the Worst disgrace
that ever fell on Sydney was embodied in the re-
velations made before a recent committee of
inquiry about the hideous sweating of Sydney sew-
ing women—the slaves who had to work 14 hours
a day making pants at 4d. a pair, because they
had to produce their work as cheaply as the sew-
ing women of London, or else got no work at all.
But as soon as the much-abused tariff saw the
light of day the tailoresses banded together and
demanded front the commercial philanthropists
of York-street advances in their rates of pay
amounting to from 50 to 100 per cent. And
because the Federal tariff reduced the competition
of the London Sisterhood of the Shirt, the local
grinders of blood and bone had to submit, at least
to .some extent. The philanthropic M‘Billion,
demanding a return to the old sweating horrors
which he and his fellow-Freetraders never lifted a
finger to alleviate, and demanding it in the name
of the poor, beats Satan reproving sin, in one
innings on a fiery wicket.
--
Had Prime Minister Barton succeeded in
inducing Premier Philp to join the Federal Minis-
try (and the latter says he had three invitations)
the solution of the Kanaka question would have
been just as it is. Dickson and Drake went under
to the pressure.of a United Australia, and Philp
and Foxton and Rutledge and the rest would
follow.
Even Q. Premier Philp has his flashes.
Speaking at Ayr:
The Federal Cabinet is made up of a band of lawyers
Therenot one practical man amongst them—not even
a Scotchman.
Seeing that Philp says that a Scotchman named
Philp was thrice invited to join 'the Federal
Ministry and refused each time, he seems to be
the last man who should complain.
Some of tlie attacks of foreign newspapers
on Joseph Chamberlain and other represen-
tatives of British authority could be made
offences in courts of law. It may be remem-
bered that the Sultan of Turkey threatened
Loadstone with legal proceedings. John Vint
anti two others were convicted in London for
having lihebed the Czar of Russia. John Peltier
was convicted for having libelled Napoleon.
Seeing that the offence is recognised by the courts
of all civilised nations Chamberlain’s shortest wav
to rehabilitation would be to move the German
courts, and throw on his accusers the burden of
land ’ J USt f?oreigliers have bad to do in Eng-


,m
BULLETIN SUBSCRIBERS
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing, whose distant vision is dull and who suffer
from persistent headaches or pains after close application—you
may rest assured that vou are suffering from Agfeingf or
Impaired Vision, and Need Glasses. You should visit
us, and have your sight scientifically tested, and be supplied
with Glasses adapted to your individual case.
TO COUNTRY READERS who cannot visit us personally, we send, Post Free to any address, with full instruc-
tions and Price List, out* marvellously-accurate and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT. By its use
you can Test your own sight and determine for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you may need.
Write for it to—
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Consulting Optician
371 George St., Sydney,
next door to the A. J.S. Bank.
King and George Streets.
And *t 232 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, opposite Aas Office.
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
*$S
•Lightest Wines in Australia.
Supplied to H.R.H. the Duke of York.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
James Gaden, a centenarian, applied at
Williamston (Vic.) police office last week for an
old age pension. Bom 1801, arrived in Victoria
in 1852.
Cabled that the Princess of Wales “has
decided that all her dresses shall be of British
■take, and, so far as possible, of British material.”
This would read better if the Royal family was
itself of British material.
The barbering profession seems to be in
the ascendant just now. One hair artist repre-
sents a metropolitan constituency in N.S.W.
Assembly, and another, from Bourke, has just got
a State billet at £lOOO a year.
Lieutenant-Governor Owen, of N.S.W., is
68 years of age, and will be 15 years on the Bench
m October next. He has been 42 years in N.S.W.
He quitted the Bar for a while, taking the office
of Principal Undersecretary to Premier Charles
Cowper.
Francis Kenna, editor of the Brisbane
Worker, proposes trying to knock out fossil
Smith for the Bowen (N.Q.) State electorate.
Smith has a fair hold of the sleepy Bowenites, but
any change from Smith (the six-foot man with the
six-inch voice) should be a relief.
Dr. Koettlitz, senior scientist of the
Discovery Antarctic expedition, was on the Wind-
ward with the Jackson-Harmsworth party when
Nansen was found “up North.” Koettbtz might
have had the luck to be the actual finder of
Nansen, but he was washing-up at the time.
“ Melb.” : A police court clerk told me he
was crossing Fitzroy Gardens with a newly-
budded J.P., when the latter got off this lofty but
confused sentiment: “Them statoos remind me
of Statoot Lor. Of course that is wrote down for
us. But what puzzles me is where this here
Common Lor is wrote down.”
The niceties of etiquette : In the big cities
Maclaren tossed personally with the captain of
the Australian team. When he met the Stawell
district men he sent a deputy to toss. It is
understood that the captain of an English Eleven
would lose caste if he personally skied the copper
with the boss of a country team.
Stated by London Truth that Baden-
Powell’s household effects include a spittoon made
of the base of a Boer 941 b. shell thrown into
Mafeking, with several Kruger coins “set in
the inside for obvious reasons.” What a howl
there would be if any beastly Dutchman used the
likeness of a British ruler to expectorate on.
A memorial, privately subscribed for, is
to be erected over the grave of Madame Sara
Flower, the well-known operatic and ballad singer
of the fifties, who died in 1865, and was buried in
the Devonshire-street R. C. cemetery. The remains
have been removed to La Perouse, with those of
Rosalie Durand, wife of Fred Lyster (of the
Lyster opera troupe), and William Andrews,
comedian, of the old Victoria Theatre, Sydney.
HER REASON.
HE (pleading his cause): “ Well, but, Sister Martha, why can't you have me
instead of Brother Slater? I’ve a better job; I'm just as good as him;
besides, I’ve been saved longer.”
SHE: “ Yes, I know, Brother Martin, but look what a terrible sinner he was
why, he was almost bad enough to be good enough for a captain.”
Sydney daily-paper news-headings :
“The German Fete. Cordiality towards Eng-
land. Germans sing ‘ God Save the King !’ ”
Why not ? The King is more German than
English. He is even more German than his
mother. Victoria’s father was born a British sub-
ject, whilst Edward’s father was born and bred a
German.
Lumley Hill, of Barcoo fame a quarter of
a century ago, is up again for a place at the
coming Queensland elections. Lumley is now
“agin” the Government. The rich wool-kings of
the past gravitated to the Tory class as a matter
of instinct, but the droughts have mostly made
them wool-mendicants, and in the battle for
existence they begin to acquire new instincts.
The refusal of certain Vic. gaol officials to
take part in a prescribed flogging recalls the
incident of Dr. Mitchell, father of the Mr.
Mitchell who has presented his .vaiuaHe. library
of old books to the Sydney public. Dr. Mitchell
was surgeon to the Colonial
in Sydney, and was dismissed by Gov. Bourke
for refusing to superintend a flogging at Hyde
Park barracks.
Printed by London Daily Chronicle
from its Rome correspondent:
Cardinal Moran, who is about to arrive in has
resigned the Archbishopric oi Sydney He is not return
ing to Australia, but becomes Re . s^ Prelate at the
Roman Curia. A suite of rooms has p b a ' e^.
hini in the Irish College, recently occupied Mgr.
Logue. Mgr. Kelly succeeds him as Metropolitan of
Sydney. . , ,
Mr. Thaddeus, the Irish painter, lately
arrived in Sydney, is at work on a full-length por-
trait of Premier Barton ; he has also in hand a
portrait of N.S.W. Works-Minister O Sullivan.
By the way, the N.S.W. public hopes to see in
its National Gallery a painting by Thaddeus of
his friend, its greatest and most picturesque
statesman. The Bulletin, of course, alludes to
Dan. O’Connor.
London Daily Express gravely informs
its half-million readers that, “to finish the war a
letter, advocating the offer of 5000 Australians,
has been written to the Melbourne papers by Sir
James M'Culloch, ex-Premier of Victoria Poor
M'Culloch ! After all his posturing, they only
take him for his bigger predecessor Higm-
botham’s colleague—whose ghost has got its tit
already.
Grainger, the burly S.A. State Agent,
who goes about 6ft. 3in„ is reported as “looking
magnificent ”in his new Windsor uniform. Like
his predecessor, Cockburn, Grainger is another
addition to the list of Australian democrats who
couldn’t resist the temptation and the tin sword.
The one bright S.A. exception was Honest
Tom” Playford, who obstinately refused to wear
the garish togs, and twice declined knighthood.
A W Pearse, the secretary of the newly-
formed Taxpayers’ Union of N.S.W., is a Conser-
tive with decidedly pessimistic views. He looks
with horror on “labor” legislation, islaff ectionately
disposed towards black labor, and predicts all
kinds of financial disasters as a result of the want
of “ encouragement to private enterprise. He is a
fussy, little man, an incessant smoker and a
hustler, and is part owner of the Pastoralists
Review.
One of the most pathetic sights in Mel-
bourne lately was to see H. H. Champion led two
or three times a week to meetings of the Christian
Scientists. The once bright, alert Champion
shows distressing signs of nerve trouble, from
which he has suffered these 30 years, off and on
Christian Scientists’ meetings are attended almost
entirely by women of the credulous type so easily
recognised, people to whom some spiritual or
religious fad has become a necessity. Ihe
majority of them have belonged at different tunes
to various religions, and have gone through the
Spiritualistic and Theosophic crazes. They can
be recognised at a glance by the skilled m
physiognomy—“foolish rabbit faces. Neverthe-
less, Champion has derived the benefit of at least
a temporary belief that the C.S. treatment im-
" c— ' J' .
proved his health.
“Britishah”:
Queen Victoria
is ticket ted off
with consum-
mate ability by
Sidney Lee, in
his contribution
to the Diction-
ary of National
Biography.
Carlyle saw
Victoria as a
girl, and said :
“ What an aw-
ful ordeal, at an
age when such
a one can hardly
be trusted to
buy her own
bonnet.” Wel-
lington and co.
wanted her to
marry a sort of
husband like
the one the
Dutch Queen
has got one
who would
develop into a
good old boozer,
a shouter
of “Tally-
ho ! Yoicks !
Yoicks ! ” a
man who goes
to bed in his
boots, and
kicks, and is a
nuisance to his
wife. Victoria
swept them all
aside with her
pretty little red
elbow, and
made her own
selection, but didn’t strike a rabid teetotaller,
nevertheless.
A lately-deceased very old N.S.W. iden-
tity, who, it was printed, had left a large fortune
(one paper mentioned a very vast sum), turns out
to have been actually insolvent when he died. In
one thing, however, the much-respected old
gentleman was rich —illegitimate children. He
had no less than three left-handed families.
Stories of the tottering veteran’s latter-day frisk i-
ness were current in his lifetime, but they seemed
so improbable that most people set them down as
legends of his gay and long-departed salad days.
For genuine miserable ill-luck a burglar,
who was recently sentenced at Ballarat (Vic.) to
five years’ “hard,” about takes the cake. A few
nights before he was laid by the heels he managed,
after infinite trouble, to blow open a safe in one of
the public offices, only to find that the lamentable
iron orifice held nothing but official reports. And
THE END.
SHE: “I have returned everything you ever gene
me —now go!”
HE: “No, there was a lock of hair, if you have
not mislaid it —I need it badly.”
when he tried the trick again, this time in a legal
manager’s office, and was caught by the police in
the act of carting off £2OO, an examination of the
safe, which had been burst open with great labor
and science, showed that it wasn’t locked.
Taroom (Q.), has a bush genius in the
shape of a boy of 13, who gives an admirable imi-
tation of the calls of 25 Australian birds—curlew,
butcher-bird, magpie, etc. Also he does the
dingo and the bunyip and the mournful cry of a
fried egg in the distance —it is all one.
“N.” : Henniker Heaton is Englisher
very ti me he returns to Austral shores. This is
somewhat unconscious. Englishism is snowed
down on & nmn. Look nt Gr9.h&ni Lorry wh©n ho
came back, also Dunky Gillies. It evaporates,
and you become common Australian again, unless
you refresh by another trip for a dose of
English, you know. You must keep Londony^—in
touch with the land of light and leading. Even
your Piccadilly Hump will wear off. Englishism
is like the dew of Hermon, or the oil that flowed
on Aaron’s head, and all down his beard and
garments. I presume it wasn’t greasy. A sort of
Holy Water. Why, confound it, I know an
English hat directly on the Block ! It is exactly
six weeks in advance of an Australian cady.
Lambert, the Towitta (S.A.) policeman,
hailed by the Sehippan boy to shoo away the
alleged man who murdered Bertha Sehippan,
missed the opportunity of his professional life-
time. Lambert left his bed reluctantly, and,
armed only with a bludgeon, struck out on a black
night across a howling wilderness. He approached
the Sehippan domicile cautiously, reminding the
boys that they would have to stand by him.
When he sighted the body from the bedroom door
he voted it dead ; then retreated to his home. Had
he got to work intelligently on the spot he might
have found something. The constable who wants
to rise in the world needs to hang on to the mys-
tery and the dead body for all he is worth.
Apropos, it is alleged that the officer who first
viewed the result of a big S.A. family tragedy
some years back went stark, staring mad.
When the A.N.A. arose in its loyal fury
at Melbourne, the other day, and upheld the im-
perial dignity by refusing to allow “Jack”
Murray, M.L.A., to lecture it on the “Der-r-ink
Our-rse” because of his anti-war opinions, one
Aye-’u’-Nayite particularly distinguished himself.
Wild-eyed and gesticulating as if jabbing bayonets
into the vitals of the globe generally, this patriot
spoke:
His speeches, and speeches of others like him, were
responsible in great part for the continuation of the war.
(Cheers.) They encouraged the Boers in their hopeless
resistance and caused the loss of many splendid lives.
(Hear, hear.) This conduct had become criminal, and
should be treated so. (Loud cheers.) One could wish
that the days of Cromwell were back, when they did not
argue with traitors, but hanged them or cut off their
heads. (Loud cheers.) If Mr. Murray had come there
that night his reception would have made him sorry.
(Hear, hear.)
And, Oh, Erin ! this rabid Jingo’s name was
Molloy.
Mary Sehippan, at present in Adelaide
gaol, accused of the murder of her sister Bertha,
at Towitta (S. A.), is, whether innocent or .guilty,
a young woman of wonderful self-control. All
through the investigation Mary, neat, scrupu-
lously particular as to the crimping of her front
hair, amiable, prepossessing, and quite collected,
attended to the wants of the officers and to her
ordinary duties. She showed no leaning to ner-
vousness or hysteria. At the inquest she gave
her testimony and heard the verdict, looking all
the time just the same quiet Mary as usual. The
coroner and some others dropped tears, but Mary
showed no grief. She only gave way to tears
when her mother threw her arms about her neck
to weep good-bye. Then she said, “Mother, I
did not do it; ” and got for answer, “ I know you
did not, my child.” But she quickly rallied, and
attending once more to the exact lay of her front
hair and the set of her dress, started on the
journey to gaol. Mary Sehippan won the re-
porters of the big dailies at sight, and they were
her friends to a man.
Abdul Wade, the colored
gentleman with 200 camels, pro-
mises soon to have a monopoly
of the carrying trade at Mt.
Garnet (Queensland). He has
bought out all the teams, and
is now contracting to carry
all kinds of goods at prices
with which no white man
can compete. One great
secret of Abdul’s success
lies in the fact that he
engages black brethren
in Asia at wages which
look respectable as prices
go there, but which, with
Australian rates and
prices, would barely pay
for the feed of one dog,
and not a large dog at
that. With this cheap
and wretched labor he
can undersell the white
carrier everywhere. The
law in the back country
exists largely for thepurpose
of putting Abdul Wade’s in-
dignant employees in gaol for
breach of contract, their usual plea
being disappointment, starvation, and
general misery. Twenty of them struck
recently, and the Queensland statutes sent them
to gaol for six months. The mighty camel-driver
and his drove of indentured niggers are institutions
which the Federal law can’t be too swift to take
cognisance of. The dark and skinny hand of
Abdul is now beginning to gather in much
property, and many white men up F orth know
that paw well as the one which is attended for
tlie rent at regular intervals.
Among N.S.W. old age p jsioners m a
onetime prominent merchant w.iO spent £6OOO
educating his son for the medical profession.
Towards the end of his career, old District
Court Judge Blake, of Queensland, got very-
shaky, but, for all that, it was hard to catch him
napping. He had a habit of going to sleep as
soon as the evidence on both sides had been given
in a civil case ; but he had trained himself to nod
his head and give an occasional assenting grunt
while advocates were speaking, and he always
woke up as the barrister or solicitor who had
addressed him sat down. Then he would bow
politely and doze off again as the other fellow com-
menced. This aggravated the bar considerably ;
and once up at Cooktown it thought it had
his ’Onah, but it hadn’t. A civil case was being
tried without jury, and four reporters, in the free
and easy style of the sweltering North, took
possession of the jury-box, which, being under the
window, was cooler than their own seat. The old
Judge settled himself to a nap while counsel for
plaintiff addressed the court. When that luminary
had finished Blake woke up, smiled, afid bowed,
and then snoozed off again while the advocate for
the defence hurled his eloquence around. When Ac
had finished his Honor awoke with his usual bow,
and, seeing the pressmen in the jury-box, he forth-
with began a long summing-up to what he believed
was a jury of four. Then the bar sniggered and
settled down to enjoy the joke ; but when half-
way through his address the ancient, recognising
the pressmen, saw his mistake. Nevertheless, he
hung on manfully and finished a masterly sum-
ming-up. Then he mildly remarked: “This
being a case of unusual importance I have ex-
plained it at this length in order that the press
may have an opportunity of reporting the matter
in full. I find for the defendant.”
♦
The Bulletin was recently knocked flat
by a machine called the Burroughs Adding and
Registering Machine, of which the Commercial
Banking Co., of Sydney, use seven. It has a
keyboard of figures as a typewriter has letters ;
and these are arranged in numerical order
from one half-penny up to £1,000,000. To add on
the machine, you print off the amounts as you
strike off the words on the typewriter, then you
press a key and the machine thereupon prints the
exact total. The machine is infallibly correct.
Users, after a little practise, can manipulate the
machine at the rate of two thousand cheques or
dockets an hour, and have the total thrown in,
while with the pen they could not write the
amounts, let alone add them. The United Type-
writer and Supplies Co., of Sydney, Melbourne
and Perth, is the concern responsible for intro-
ducing the benefits of this machine to Australia.
They state that a large number of banks, and
many of the leading drapery establishments in
Sydney and Melbourne, such as David Jones and
Co., Ball and Welch, Craig, Williamson and
Thomas, have them in use for listing and adding
up the daily dockets.*
There is one place in Sydney where the
business of money-lending is carried on in an
equitable manner and where those in need of
financial accommodation can rely on being
decently treated. The sensible man who wishes
to get rid of his monetary worries at a minimum
of cost and trouble to himself goes to the offices of
the Australian Equitable Investment Co., Ltd.
The co. has a large capital for investment at low
interest, and is always open to advance money on
risks which the banks would decline; and acts
generally as a medium between the banks and
ordinary money-lenders. Men in business can
obtain assistance for their venture at a figure
which will leave them a fair profit for themselves.
The co. advances money to any extent on deeds of
land, bond warrants, merchandise, stock in trade,
scrip, interests under wills, furniture and all classes
of security. Press notices which have been pub-
lished from time to time express the favorable
opinion which generally exists regarding the co.
Mr. J. E. O’Brien is the Managing Director, and
the co.’s offices are at 45 Elizabeth-street, between
King and Hunter-streets.*


TRY
MACONOCHIE’S
CELEBRATED
Worcestershire
Sauce.^£—
Most Delicious
and Cheapest.
SOER EVERYWHERE .
Australian Representatives:
SWIFT & CO.,
7 Spring Street, Sydney.
THE BEBT NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hnnyadl Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes—
-41 Hunyadi J4nos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose :— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Hote the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprefor,
‘ ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par
of the Label.
Hotel
Australia
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
For the Summer Season.
The innumerable visitors who have stayed at “ The
Australia” during Summer months have nothing
but praise for this famous Hotel. Ladies with
families obtain every comfort and attention at
a very reasonable cost. The rooms, furniture and
appointments of ‘‘The Australia” are unsurpass-
able. The Hotel has been built with every attention
to the needs of the climate. Hence, on the hottest
Summer day, the coolness of its rooms is as refresh-
ing as a cold bath.
J. URE SMITH (Late ol ilenziea'), Manager,
Castiereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.— ln the case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
THE FESTIVE SEASON.
THE BOSS: "What, starving with a paunch
like that?"
THE WANDERER : “ Well, boss, I think yer
might overlook that , seein' it's Noo Year."
Towitta (S.A.), the scene of the Scliippan
tragedy, is one of the western flats of the river
Murray. This country never knows exactly where
it is. For a week or two, it is blown bodily
towards the Murray ; then, for a like period, it is
blown back again. This oscillation goes on pretty
well all the year round. The wind there does not
blow in puffs or squalls or storms. It blows with
a long, strong, changeless pull, making hideous,
howling music through every chink and round
every corner. A tornado or a giant whirl-
wind creates as much diversion as would a
first-class circus ; it shakes up the dregs of
sorrow’s cup, as Henry Lawson puts it.
The dust is highly charged with limestone par-
ticles, whence blight, granulation, and all the
other eye troubles. These flats have not raised a
crop for years. The farmers remain only because
they lack the means to get away. They don’t
look forward with glee to a good harvest. They
would not handle it. The creditors would swallow
all. They live chiefly on rabbits and parrots, and
many of them are clothed in sack-cloth. Their
only hope at present is in the swelling of the
subscription lists now passing round Adelaide on
their behalf —the result of the efforts of Jenkin
Coles, who has the misfortune to know the
country. And the-man who knows that country
knows Gehenna.
* * • *
“Alia” : In B. 4/l/’O2, “Jack” asks if
sugarcane-growers plant lantana for the purpose
of fertilising the soil after the fourth crop of
cane? Well, on the Northern rivers of N.S.W.,
where the lantana grows luxuriantly, the farmer
wlio endeavored to recuperate hissoilby this means
would run a great risk of being brought before the
Court as a person of unsound mind. As a friend
of the agriculturist, the lantana is own brother to
the blackberry of the South Coast, the prickly
pear of the Hunter, the sweetbriar in New Eng-
land, the rabbit, the tax-gatherer, and the devil.
* * » •
M‘Cooey on “ Werimee ” :
Re 11 Werimee " (8., 11/l/’O2). Neither kangaroos nor
wallabies lap their drink, and no tommy-rot or distorting
of the inane human visage in 14 opposite directions at one
and the same time, nor even a senseless repetition of the
absurd saying, “ I’ve seen them do so.” will ever convince
any intelligent school-boy that they do, oi ever did. It
is an action quite foreign to the life histo y of each and
every member of the vast order Herbivora.and would have
infallibly been recorded, did such a thing occur, 100 years
ago. Whatever “ Werimee ” may know about swag craft,
about kangaroos he knows nothing.
The dilly-bag of the Australian aborigine
is a structure far in advance of her white sister’s
perishable reticule of commonplace silk or satin.
No self-respecting lubra would part with her
dilly-bag or allow it to fall into holes. It is an
heirloom probably, and, as time disintegrates it,
the weak parts are renovated till the original
structure is quite done away with. A few hairs
taken from the head of a fiiend are woven in, or a
feather from the wing of the black cockatoo. A
little wild hemp, or the fibrous root of the supple-
jack strengthens a seam, and a bit of cloth is
purloined from an enemy on the same principle
that David annexed a morsel of Saul’s night-shirt.
The contents of black Mary’s bag are far more
useful and practical than white Maude’s puff and
powder or her silly little mirror in which she can
only see a section of her face at once. Among them
is, perhaps, a scratching thorn, and the comfort of
a nice scratching thorn deserves to be known more
widely than it is—few white ladies of rank have
ever scratched themselves all over with a thorn;
and the shark’s tooth for use as a toothpick lias
many advantages. The black sister’s dilly is at
once portmanteau, medicine chest and pantry.
The present fashion of carrying a potato filled
with eyes as a cure for rheumatism is a set off
against the toe nail of an enemy carried by Mary
to keep off evil spirits, or the loose bone from the
head of the dugong which is supposed to be an
antidote for almost every disease.
* * *. *
At a farm in Gippsland (Vic.), the other
day, the lightning cut a clean tunnel, no broader
than a man’s hand, through the centre of a hay-
stack. The ends of the sheaves were shorn off as if
with a sharp knife. Lightning is a frivolous cuss.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. —Re trees lifting weights.
I will ask “ Jaek-a-Clubs ” (30/11/’01),
also “ H.P.” (9/11/’01) the following : If
a bullet is fired into a growing tree—say
six inches in depth—will that bullet be
carried upwards with the growth ? Be-
cause a scar always remains on the bark
and wood at the original height from the
ground. If they are right, and lam
right, then in, say, ten years time the
bullet would not be found opposite the
scar, but some distance higher up, for,
according to their theoi’y, the tree would
lift the weight as it grew. I could prove
at the present time that a gum, which,
some ten or twelve years ago, was used
as a training-post in a wire fence, has not
lifted the wires an inch, although they
are buried almost out of sight beneath
the bark, and the tree has grown in
height perceptibly. That scars do not
grow upwards with the tree can be
proved by any surveyor. Writer has
cut out scores of old marks in a survey
line 50 years old for verification, arid
found the original marks perfect to
a depth of 15 inches, and in no
case has the scar exceeded in height
an ordinary man’s elbows when in the act of
marking. There is, or was, in the Survey Office,
Hobart, a perfect, solid triangle which was re-
moved from a growing swamp gum at a depth of
12in. The old scar was not more than 3ft. from
the ground, and the survey line was 40 years old.
I cannot doubt “ H.P’s ” assertion that the
Kanaka could not reach the nail he hammered
into a tree seven years previously ; but I think
the subject of the shrinkage of Kanakas requires
investigation. Also, is it dead certain that it was
the same Kanaka? The explanation of the whole
matter is that the top of a tree grows faster in
height than its other portions, the speed diminish-
ing towards the root, where the growth is so slow
as to be imperceptible. Therefore, if the Kanaka
had reached Bft., the nail might have advanced
the 32nd part of an inch—but I doubt even that.
—C.H.R.
Latest cattle-“ lifting ” trick in Rangi-
tikei (M.L.) district. A number of owners of
young steers are known to only visit their stock
once a week or so. “ Duffer” takes them to first
sale-yard and sells. Purchaser paddocks them,
for the night; “duffer” takes them away again,
and puts them where he got them. Rightful
owners swear that they haven’t sold, and that the
beasts have never been out of paddock. Case
badly mixed ; police have no clue ; purchaser left
lamenting ; air full of big D.
* * * *
“ P.Q.R.” : lie rabbits dying in East
Riverina (Bulletin, 11/l/’O2), I don’t think it is
want of green food. In Wyalong district, where
there is no green food any summer, bunny is
dying off in thousands this year. It is some
disease, perhaps of the mangy order. The fur if
rubbed the wrong way comes out easily. What
show for a scientist to diagnose the complaint and
spread it, and win a big reward for bunny ex-
termination ?
* * * *
W. M‘Leod writes: He “Scars” par of
11/l/’O2 about two rows of shearers working on
one “board.” This is a common style of wool-
shed. Some of the largest ones are built on
that plan—for instance, “Big” Burrawang and
Yeralia. The shearers on the outside, or “pack-
horse” side as shearers call it, catch out of the
same pens as the inside row of shearers. The
inside row let their shorn sheep go down “shoots”
alongside the catching-pen doors. The shearer is
not considered much in the building of some sheds.
♦ * * •
“ Scotty W.” : lie Murray-cod yarns.
Mons. Le Clerc, alias Comte de Columbier,
caught a 120-pounder at Boyong, near confluence of
Lachlan and Murrumbidgee; the Countess catch-
ing an 801 b. fish the same day. Heads seen by
me, and recommended for Sydney museum.
There’s a cod at Quat Quata that must be near
2001b5., if still alive. I advised the fisherman to
get a shark hook and bait with a full-grown rabbit
or parrot. I once found three pups, drowned at
Weinteriga, half-a-mile below where they were
thrown in, in a bag, inside a cod of 181bs. or so.
The cod is good eating, however large, when in
season.
Dear Bulletin. “ Werri-
mee’s ” idea re an “ Aboriginal
Gazetteer ” (8., 11/l/’O2) is not
new. About twelve months ago a
circular was issued from the Lands
Department, Sydney, to every
staff surveyor in the State, request-
ing him to forward the meanings,
with any noteworthy remarks
thereon, of the aboriginal names
of towns, rivers, and prominent
features within his district. He
was also asked to forward to the
Department of Agriculture any
seeds of indigenous trees and
plants he might come across during
liis travels. But the surveyor has
his hands full with professional
work. He is generally under orders
to carry out immediately surveys
at both ends and the middle of his
district. Any information respect-
ing the above-mentioned matters
he is expected to gather in his
own time. Naturally, therefore,
very little thrilling news regard-
ing aboriginal matters is received
from him. Writer knows of one
surveyor who was greatly struck
with the idea when he received
the circular, and at once put down
on the form provided a long name
with which lie was familiar, and
added a few remarks on the
meaning, &c. At the present time
there is only one name on that list.
Apropos of circulars, a curious one
was issued some time ago by the
Under-Secretary for Lands to sur-
veyors and draftsmen. In it they
were instructed that the word
which they had been in the habit
of writing on plans as ti-tree should
in future be written tea-tree. It was
stated that said tree derived its
name from the fact that Captain
Cook once made tea from the
leaves of one of that kind. Who
believes this ?— Scutum.
The mallee district of Victoria has
been struggling amid a cloud of dust to
collect a two-bushel harvest. Nobody knows
who made the mallee, but the Devil is
strongly suspected. The great irrigation
scheme still hangs fire. The alleged lakes,
which make such beautiful snail-tracks on the
map, are dry. Most of the dams have dried up
or else fallen through ; it is a porous country,
where the falling-through is almost as bad a prob-
lem as the evaporation. Fanners are carting
water 16 or 20 miles, and the water-train is once
more an institution in the land. The Bulletin
has an idea that the Falkland Group is the place
where the souls of good Australians go. It rains
.‘lOO days a year there, and if the Australian who
never got properly wet in this world doesn’t get
wet in the next, when does he get wet ?
A DAUGHTER OF THE LAND.
“ Margery," of Wyangorie Station, N.S. W. Died recently at the reputed
age of over 100 years, and looks it.
Told to The Bulletin by a doctor that
Croydon (Q.) hospital has no nurse at all on duty
during the night. One typhoid patient, accord-
ingly, was allowed to wander about the wards in
a delirious state at nights until he died. The
whole nursing staff consists of the wardsman and
his wife, the latter having two young children of
her own to look after. Though a qualified medical
man is available, powerful drugs are prescribed
in an off-hand fashion by a layman. Croydon
hospital does not seem to take its patients very
seriously until they are dead.
* * ft *
N. W. Queensland, having battled through
a three years’ drought, a few thunderstorms
are just commencing to cheer up that weary land.
Also every square inch of some districts is sup-
porting an able-bodied grasshopper awaiting the
arrival of the first blade of new grass. Verily—
the west is a wondrous land !
WHAT HE DROVE WITH .
NEW CHUM : “ But how does the man guide the animals?
He appears to have no reins."
WIRE-FENOR JOB (as B[?], the driver, lets go some language):
"Lor' bless yer, no. Bill don't want no reins. Jest
listen to ’im.”
“H.J.Mac.”: About 10 years ago I had a
tame “barbed-lizard,” which would come when
I called it and would swell up with rage when any
stranger came near me. When I spoke to it
angrily it would crawl miserably into its box,
looking all broken up. I knew a German cook,
m the Orange-Cowra district, who had three pet
gohannas, which he fed daily. One day a Cliina-
an cai ? e ai } d > seeing the lizards, began to bash
them with his basket-stick, but the German took
a hand,’ and nearly immolated John,
* * * *
“Rory” : Ain informed that rabbits
often lose their ears through phosphorus poison-
ing. Can anybody confirm ? By-the-way, if two
’possums of different ages are caged together the
older always chews the younger’s ears off. Hun-
ger not the cause—perhaps affection,
* * * *
A party of three
—consisting of two
Js.P. and a third
man, a comparative
stranger—went out
duck-shooting from
a small Victorian
town just before the
opening of the
season. They struck
luck among the
lagoons, and got
god bags, but, in
the excitement of
the sport, the three
were separated, and
did not meet again
till next morning.
Then the two Js.P.,
sitting oil the
Bench, were pained
to find that the only
case was a charge
directed against
their friend of the
day before, who had
been taken red-
handed with the
jpoil of the chase,
and was accused of
infringing the game
laws. The accused
was punished with
the utmost leniency
of the law, and the
Js.P. paid the fine
afterwards, and
shouted liberally for
their friend to pacify
him. The final re-
sult was that next
morning found the
same two magis-
trates on the Bench,
and the only case
was their friend
again—charged with
being drunk. These two beaks have resolved
that hereafter they will be friendW^s.
“THE BOYS OUT-BACK.”
11 No doubt it would ‘ amuse the boys out-back,' but it
would at the same time get us ‘ six months’ hard ’ —which
no doubt would also ‘ amuse the boys out-back.’ —Bulletin
“ Answers to Correspondents
To tub Editor.
This is the way of “ the boys out-back”—
The boys on the far Barcoo—
Whose homes are the “ Run ” or the “ Droving Track,”
Where the yarns are always blue.
These are the boys who, year by year,
Keep watch on the weary West—
The hoys whose chief delights are beer
And a good strong tale—undressed.
It’s little they know, and less they care,
llow the world at Sydney wags,
While they muster, brand, and shear at Clare,
Or carry their well-worn swags.
They spend their cheques and they tell their tales —
Their tales of a sapphire hue —
(Till the dear old crimson blanky fails,
These tales will be always new).
And then, on a Sunday calm and cool,
With a pen that is bright sky-blue,
They write these yarns of the out-back school,
And send them along to you.
v.
FRANK RADOLIFFR.


Inter-State Championship Band Contest
SOME INTERESTING PARTICULARS.
The Band Contest Art Union, which is being
extensively advertised just now, is conducted
under the auspices of the Band Association of
NSW —the only body of its kind m the Com-
monwealth. Contest takes place Sydney Town
Hall, Jan. 25th and 27th. Prizes value £350.
Art Union drawing comes off Feb. 26th. First
four principal prizes: Gold Cornet, £lOO ; Victor
Piano £5O; Kimball Organ, £25; Naumann
Bicycle, £2O. (By the way, there are some
“ melting moments ” awaiting tliat gold comet.)
Price of Tickets, Is. Half profits divided amongst
public hospitals; this in proportion to tickets sold
locally in each district and State. Mr. J. F. Bruce,
Hon. Sec., 305 Pitt-street, Sydney, will supply
private purchasers or intending agents on appli-
cation.* ___________________ __
Serious Biding Accident.
The friends of Mr. J. J. O’Sullivan, of Com,
will regret to hear of the very serious effect of the
fall from a horse which he sustained
“One day whilst I was riding,” explained
Mr O’Sullivan, “my horse became unmanage-
able, and I was thrown and sustained an injury
to mv back. Sometime after that X was running
to catch a horse in the paddock when my legs
crossed and I nearly fell down; from that time
the muscles of my limbs became uncontrollable,
and I was told I had locomotor ataxia. My spine
seemed quite without strength, and I lost my
appetite and fell away in general health. When
I tried to walk I used to stumble, and severe
pains ran through my limbs. Notwithstanding a
physician’s treatment, my complaint continued.
But, last October, a lady friend recommended Dr.
Williams’ pink pills for pale people, and I began
taking them. One boxful brought no noticeable
benefit, but as I further continued taking them
I began to gradually improve. After a time I
was able to control my muscles and to walk
properly. Then I regained my appetite, my spine
became strengthened, and by persevering with
these pills the symptoms of locomotor ataxia
abated, and I now enjoy very good health. My
cure is no secret for I have lived m the Cowra
district for thirty years, and am well-known in
Carcoar and Canowindra.” .
The benefits which Mr. O’Sullivan obtained
from Dr. Williams’ pink pills are in no wise
extraordinary, for the ingredients are such that
they act directly on the nerves and blood, and
strengthen the spinal cord, the impairment of
which causes locomotor ataxia, paralysis, epilepsy,
etc. For the same reasons they cure rickets, St.
Vitus’ dance, hysteria, skin diseases, anaemia,
debility, consumption of lungs and bowels, etc.
Sold by chemists and storekeepers, and by the
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place,
Sydney, two and nine per box, six boxes fifteen
and three, post free. Ladies will find that Dr.
Williams’ pink pills, by enriching the blood,
regulate their health and produce a lovely com-
plexion.
FOR
n,m
> x
WOLFES SCHNAPPS.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
USED IN THE ROYAL HOUSEHOLDS.
CERE BOS SALT
Besides being the most Dainty, Dry, and Economical
Table Salt, “Cerebos” contains the strengthening and
constitution building properties which are wanting
In White Bread, owing to the removal of the Bran.
It is, therefore, invaluable in the daily food of
growing children, delicate mothers, and all brain
workers.
Wholesale Agents: -HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 334 and 336, George Street, SYDNEY.
Sold by Grocers and Stores.
“ S.S.” : The beery towns of Bananaland
cannot give many points to Nagambie, a mangy,
one-street township on the Goulburn (Vic.) with
five pubs, and five wineshops in its single
thoroughfare.
Buffalo hunter P. Cahill writes in truly
startling strain to the Northern
Territory Times re the inroads
made by leprosy among the
aborigines. Cahiil asserts that
in 1892 he employed 194
natives along the East and
South Alligator. Of that
number 6(5 have since died—
mostly from leprosy. Cahill
averts that if the Govern-
ment should start a quaran-
tine station up in the
Northern Territory it would
have a big contract on hand.
Attributes spread of disease
to the Chinese and the visits
of Malayan proas.
The ignorant but ferocious
Kanaka proved an easy victim
for a Bananaland deadbeat, who
recently set about raising_the wind
in the sugar country. With a big
empty loliie-tin propped on a tripod
of three saplings and a piece. of black rag
the d.b. set up business as an itinerant photo-
grapher. Trade boomed wonderfully, and in
three days he took the photo, of almost every
“boy” and “Mary” thereabouts, obtaining a
substantial deposit in each case, and promising
the complete picture as soon as he could develop
the negatives. When the Kanaka found that the
picture of his large black countenance wasn t
forthcoming, he became dangerous ; and the next
photo.-man who goes that way will take his life in
his hand.
» * » *
Personal advt. from a N.S.W. country
paper:
-vrOTICE.—The hoodlum who stole the key out of my
x ’ meat-safe on Boxing Day kindly call and get the
safe, as it is no use without the key.—G. A. SMITH.
The Smith family appears to be always getting
into trouble.
* • * *
A recently-created Jay-Pay in Never
Never Land held an inquest on an unfortunate
who had perished from thirst. This was the
finding:—
I find that the accused died of thirst, exhilerated by
want of water, on or about 10th December, in 'Possum
paddock, Sandyblight.station.
• * * *
Saw blown down at Evinvale
shed, the other day, a magpie’s nest, the sticks of
which were bound together by a ’possum-snare.
Crows, magpies, and hawks prefer short lengths
of wire to sticks, and at nesting time will gather
up all the pieces of wire along the wire-fences.
“ Western ” : Once had a cat that used to
sleep half the day on the back of a pet sheep. Do
any of your readers know of a similar instance of
affection of one animal for another? [A stable-
cat will sometimes take a fancy to sleep on the
back of a particular horse, the neddy generally
coming to approve of the arrangement.]
A LONG DRINK.
NEW CHUM: “ That whisky I had hcah yesterday
was the worst I’ve evah dwank. I've got the
taste in my mouth yet.”
PUBLIOAN : “ Good Lot'! mister —what more do
yer expect fer a tanner?”
Freeman’s Journat. (14/12/’01) credits
Archbishop Kelly with saying: “Under the sur-
face of modern society lies a corruption only to
be compared with that of the tomb. When this
is all the churches have to show after all these
centuries the collection-plate begins to look very
like a dishonest vessel obtaining money under
false pretences.
“ APENTA.” 8
The Best Natural Aperient Water.
A Specific
For The Certain Relief Of
HABITUAL and OBSTINATE CONSTIPATION and in
DISORDERS of the LIVER and BILIOUS ATTACKS.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
nimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skm.
1 1 bottles. Made in London. *
SUMMER GIRLS ARE IN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
TVS long ago since Winter-tide:
1 The Summer winds come, parched and
dried;
I take me to the shady side ;
I do not care a pin
If I do any work or no;
It’s pleasanter to watch the show
Of little feet trip to and fro,
Now Summer Girls are in!
Oh, no ! they're not dicolleUe,
For filmy lace and flowery spi-ay
Lie lightly where, as some might say,
The blushing should begin;
But still they’re rather careful, yes!
To give facility to guess
How much is girl, and how much di ess,
These Summer Girls so thin!
I wonder if it’s really wrong
To watch them as they pass along—
This softly sinuous female throng;
A nd if it’s any sin
To glance at airy skirts like those
Which fully, daringly, disclose
Each turn of hip, each style of hose,
Now Summer Girls are in 7
No dryad she, the modern maid,
To hide her charms in forest glade;
In daylight fair they’re well displayed
And admiration win;
And lovers gaze till twilight dims
The air, and wonder at her whims,
And dream of shapely, slender limbs
Of Summer Girls so thin!
Then is it naughty—let me know —
To gaze at this bewildering show,
To drop one’s eyes — well, just below
That dainty-pointing chin 7
To love these flowers with woman-face,
These stems of undulating grace,
These arum lilies lapped in lace,
Now Summer Girls are in ?
sydxxy.
ARTHUR FRY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
jsr 0 notice tpm be taken of communication* tnmtfrctenny
stamped. Name and address must appear on JUS.
No liability is undertaken in any case n contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
D.W. : “ Epinodas ” reserved for special occa-
sion. Kindly send address to editor, as it has been
mislaid.... Tree : Hardly enough in it.... 0.: Promising,
for a first attempt... .H.L.: Too jerky and inconsequent.
Paul 0. : Too faint and fragmentary . ..Gladys A.: One
too long and |the other too lean... .I> 0.: Very tame in
the telling.... L.N.: Hardly up to the mark.... Hamer :
Rather dramatic ending, but otherwise unsatisfactory....
Tom Tiddler : You don’t tiddle worth a cent.... .Inyra :
Very meek and sweet and weak 8.T.8.: Faint glimmer
of an idea through a dense fog of words.... Grant
Hervey : Several in type. Cordially agree with your
proposal to d n everything.. ~.W.F. : Very slender
fragment... .Wild Bee: Pretty little things, and neatly-
versed, but too conventional in sentiment. Eve " t ’ l ®
ffood old durable moon can’t stand many more poems
made about her. She looked much frayed at the edges
last night ...J.W.G. (Bourke): May be wisdom, but it
isn t poetry Telsic : Please send us your address ..
Shows some power of observation, but to°diffu ,
in its interest for publication... .T.H.R. : Not sufficient
interest... .Rex : Just a slab of the heavy etoqnencew
popular with debating societies... .I.V.K. . What we can
make out seems too frisky. Please write all future frisky
copy quite plainly S.F.M. : The pleasant oasis of
finding a lady with nothing on playing a piano in
the mfdst of a dense pine scrub is hidden in such a great
wilderness of words... Prosy and pointless..,.
W J : Can’t resist printing this
THE PYRAMID’S BASE.
Ah 1 nomad of the city walks,
Whose rags record you derelict.
Whose tenement the tapster stalks
Until his leer your anger’s piqued ;
Whose phantoms all are bacchanal,
And pavement lights with forms abound
That pesky be, and pesky shall,
Though present not to people round :
I wonder where’s your Talon gold, _
That clawed so well your comfort in—
That wrung the mattress from the old,
And drove the harassed young to sin T
Maybe in other hands as harsh,
Whose goblet’s full, and woman true.
And you—you're nabob in the marsh,
Where Goblet (aye I) may follow you.
.... Johhn Smitth: Hardly up to marie . .Mentor:
Rather humorous. Will use.... Joseph K. . Wonderful
what good pins we find stuck through such bad poetry.
Kola: Will print bullock-dnving narrative.... John
Pintnot • Will probably print....C.A.J.: Humorous
story, but have a vague idea the nigger is rather too
odorous for publication... .Indra : Declined in a f jjend y
way. Well written, but covers too mneh gftrand forMe
ofsubiect .Jack-a-Clubs: “ Baffled Jealousy’Ms clever,
in a way, but when one would gladly hang ofithe char-
acters in a tale it is well to keep off.. .-Margie Story of
much decayed fowl-feed, rejected.^ Smite •
Rods” not for our back, thank you.. ..A.E.I. . Nine
tenths of the stories that reach us are grim, and we have
(o reject a horror now and then Yours is a rejected
horror... .5.0.0. J.: Not enough body in the beer...
Awakimo : Some good points about _ Milanie •
“Dawn on Murray” is good description, but mere de-
scription has to be more than good to pass muster
Wanderer: “Ambition” is a rather worn-out theme.
F M.N. : “Pretty Sister” is a small, harmless
failure .Tricolor: An awful, wild and gory shnek.
DN I. (Grenfell) : Rather tame. Don b like tales
that absolutely feed out of_ the hand. Quart
Pot: You are a wildly sanguine man.... Denning.
“ Yes,” to both questions... .F._ F. Tracey : -Poem about
hasting from the crowded city to the fresh grassy
country and the green hedges is all wrong. Asd we don t
want to haste to the tottering wooden fence and the bush-
fire .Blackbut: You surely don b expect us to print
the siily statement, “ No capitalist would for a moment
think of being in a concern which will not relegate to his
pockets great wealth.” Who owned all the big institu-
tions that perished in '93, and all the millions of sheep
and cattle that are dead in the West, and pretty neariy
everything that has burst, except capitalists? For
Heaven’s sake, get out. of the democratic party
before your ignorance brings it into contempt......
ASH.: Very crude work H. Brmsmead . Below the
mark, despite some clever touches... . Emily Mac.: Rather
school-missish in style and sentiment... .J.W. . Hardly
well enough done... .Ohas. J.: Worth perpension ...
t? M Hawlev: Yerv good of its kind, bufc doesn c suit
Bulletin. .. Ja.B.T. : In the scales... .Mentor : Pretty
funny ; may print... .Cadaver : Duly interred
Not too bad ; may use... .Samiel: Fired-out with much
viiror The Bulletin is not a muck-heap.... .J’om-
Pom • You haven’t got the range. ..Hugo: Cant un-
derstand what you’re driving at. No time for conundrums.
R F F : Have read worse yarns—but not muen /....
Rita, S’. (Rochester): Will print “Telephone.”
Dareel: The best part of the tale is unpublishable.....
OW W * Knox-Little too small a gun to notice
at this' end of the w0r1d....L.0. : Thanks for some
excellent pars. But. please don’t ever wnte again
in faint pencil and a minute hand on pink paper. We all
wear glasses in this office. ..The Foreign - trade Correspon-
dent • A Protectionist believes in taxing nothing that the
country wants from abroad (i.e., that the country can t
produce). He may be driven to it by want of revenue,
but that is another thing. So long as you get your idea
of Protectionist principles from Foreign-trade papers you
are liable to make ridiculous mistakes like that. . ..Kil-
laloe : Three good verses. Fourth one spoils it M.B. .
Not a staggenng coincidence. If your friend s name had
been Crzyneckski, and he found that carved on the seat
he was sitting on, it would have been different......
Gordon Setter: Did you hear us cough loudly ?. ..H.P.L. .
Wants climax. Nothing in P artlc T^ a . r . h^F^, pr „ a
Newton W. : Thanks for letter.... Jundah . River a
used-up subject. “Good Shepherd” too gross an ex-
aggeration. The shepherd has to sin in a lower key than
that if he wants to keep his shearing j0b.......
Doggerel J. : You must sin with more grace m these
columns. We have Hedda Gabler’s objection to a suicide
who shoots himself in the stomach... ..B.C.W.D. . Not
strong enough to toddle in Daw: Both bad, and
whichever way you read them the last one read seems the
worse.... Pagan : “ Alderman ” makes our soul glad....
OuilD N ’ “Blue Gums” accepted.... The Boomerang.
Metre ail uncertain as the flight of your pen-name
Wanderer : Both yarns have wandered right out of sight.
Tree-Nail: Your description of the leak m the
ship Discovery would fill nearly a column. We
couldn’t spare that space if heaven was leaking .... - -
AJ F ’ You send us a yarn about an Australian
officer who showed great cowardice when his house was
looted by a burglar. Now, who gave you the facts—the
iflWr nr the burglar ?.... Nomen : Do you mean us to
believe that there are thirty Land Boards in the N.S.W.
Western District?.. ..Subs.: Could pri n t ™ueh more
remarkable incidents of Salvarmy begging than that.
Snowy : Already regretting that hen l«ke ; we can t poss _
bly find room for American planter stones.....
Not up to the mark. .R. Mack : A three-acre Mock of hfily
land according to usual methods of measurement,
probably contain greater surface than ( bhre® of n fl *
whether it would grow more would depend on the
H P.: Give up “ Old Bush Home” as a badjob. Better
insure the home heavily and burn it... ..Maggie . • „
Pictures "don't quite get there. “Betrothal Dialogue
is mere conversation on a very ordinary euhj ■ ' .
high-class conversation falls a little f1at...... m ;
Unprintable... .B. Burke : Would .carcely suit the B.
....Jack Williams: Might be a lot 'T 0 ”®-
directness, at all events, which is what the tyro a lmo
invariably lacks... Delm : Spirited. Will ProbaWy pn^
C “ r™ jonfr h B lnlrialsluggest^'damn bad I”-
which" just fills 'the bi 11 ... .Rurik “Bandy-legged metre
and calamitous rhymes.
The beautiful Ducal car, specially built
in the Vie. Railway workshops for His Diminutive
Nibs, is now hired out—at per head—to bowling
teams, shooting parties, and so forth, when visit-
ing Geelong, Colac, or other hush townships.
These pay a stiff price for the joy of sitting in the
stale atmosphere of Royalty . and having .the
chance to give a surreptntous kiss to the cushion
which once supported the ducal spine.
experience,
PAT (who has “ shouted ” severe's times for his
Caledonian friend, and notices that gulps
his liquor the moment it is served): “Look-
at-here, Macpherson, why d'ye swallow yer
stuff in such a divil of a hurry?"
MAO: “ Eh, mon, it got knockit over wance! ”


2
lu
far °,
H- <J
* Ui
t jE
Q. ~
Ui cs
* £ -
VsT Uj
Y> £C\
I-va..
7\^cKm
P T
M oRTUALuy
A'BtrrjifvTjv \ la7o U N D
1 — 1
>■ [-sigg.l
Hun? the <
ADo^ a ' jT £,<
TK*** Q
MfH. IT-
? h/Ho Be dam
?lAy no <J«V N
OPT/CF MM DfK
JEUTSCHERTtoBLATt'etI-
A/ACH HICHI EHZEITUHCi
ODER Pe*
- ZflT
yoo-aw "l
'Ey
Doy CUTTING, A FrFNCH^R TJ
*>y
a/£w s M p £*- s'
Co RRfj
°/Vore -y^s,
A7/iy VoTiajtTcy
THhTTtit H/iR in
Africa i$
Mosnv/^
/s/eivy PAPefi-s
)
On D£*STiJi>y o
->l/gsCß|g£ft
IMS*/’’,
5^ ,N< < THE fTMpW
■ (Keep ,V^g
4cr op S'oivie
r “H
Lon 00N
t~.niES
OPHf.
:v 0
rfR CMN&FRI/un <3
AJfour To Tare
\?p IsiCfOßouQ ITJ
iibS*Asu*e s
S> *W* >L°^R r
ndlr
WlcH HITS 15£"(5 UILL TL's'^"
HE Lii/f^.
CfN L h)£ r- w £s
The EDITOR. IN ?
Because we
CALLED To )lM
,P^AIVA/^/
Jj°P S
I (/a/ VEKSTJPy
LATEST FROM THE S'AFRICAN WAR, BY “THE BULLETIN’S ” OWN WAR ARTIST.
“The battle of Waterloo was won on the cricket-fields of Eton and Oxford.” —Wellington.
“The war in S’Africa is being fought in the various newspaper offices —especially in Sydney.” — UNDERSTODY.


THE LEAP IN THE DARK.
“Undeterred by all that has been said concerning the dangers of emigration to South Africa at the present time, 45 persons visited the Department for External Affairs yesterday and
obtained permits to land there. Thus far 495 persons have, since 2nd January, declared themselves possessed of £100, or able to keep themselves in South Africa if allowed to land there. Practically
this means that the community is losing £49,500 at least in cash, as well as nearly 500 able-bodied men and women.” — Melb. paper.


A. SAUNDERS
WATCHES, JEWELLERY. AND SILVERPLATE AT FREETRADE PRICES.
SAVE 25 TO 50 PER CENT. SHOWROOMS: 815 G.EORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
A. SAUNDERS.
BAIR BRUSH, Pure Silver, in Silk-lined Case, 80s.
FREETRADE PRICES. NO ADVANCE.
A. SAUNDERS’ FREETRADE PRICES.
NUT CRACKERS and PICKS in Silk-lined Case,
Chased and Silver-plated, 15s 6d and 20s.
VERY USEFUL.
A. SAUNDERS.
60 AP BOX, Silver-plated, Nicely Chased and
Embossed j 12s fid.
FREETRADE PRICES.
A. SAUNDERS’ FREETRADE PRICES
LADIES’ FRIEND, Pure Silver-mounted,
in Silk-lined Case, 18s 6d. Smaller, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CLOTH BRUSH, Pure Solid Silver-
mounted, 15s 6d, 17s 6d.
CUMIJS, Pure Solid Silver-mounted, Beal
Tortoiseshell, 20s ; Imitation Shell, 10s 6d
Similar, 5s 6d and 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Manicure Set, Pure Solid Silver-mounted, 20s.
Smaller, 12s 6d.
NO ADVANCE IN PRICE.
Pure Solid Silver Chased PHOTO
FRAMES in every Style and Shape.
10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, and 255.
A very acceptable present.
FREETRADE PRICES.
A. SAUNDERS.
MIRROR, Solid Silver-mounted,
Heart-shaped, Velvet-lined, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 15s 6d, 20s, 80s, £2.
FREETRADE PRICES.
Pure Silver Hair BRUSH,
Best Bristle, 15s 6d.
You save money buying
from A. SAUNDERS.
1
X
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Silver-mounted WAEiLET CARS
CASE, 20s. Similar style, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Hair Brush, Pure Silver, Bes
Bristles, 12s 6d. Splendid Value.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHILD’S CUPS,Pure Solid Silver,
in Silk Case, 80s, 85s, £2, £2 10s ;
Silver Electro-plated, 12s 6d, 15s,
20s. Without Case, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ PURSES, Pure Silver-mounted, Lizard
Skin, 20s, 255. Other styles. 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
Our Stock of First Purses is large and Assorted.
A. SAUNDERS.
FREETRADE PRICES. SAVE 25 to 50 PER CENT.
Solid Silver 4 o’clock TEA SPOONS, in Case, 15s, 20s; with
TONGS, 20s, 255, 80s, £2 ; Silver Electro-plated, with
TONGS, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Or Cake KNIVES or FORKS. 20s, 255, 80s. Most Useful
for Afternoon Cake. All in Silk-lined Cases. Post Free.
(a
Ss2s
Vt,J
A. SAUNDERS.
PUFF BOX, Pure Solid Silver, Pretty and
Ornamental, 255.
Silver-plated on White Metal, 17s 6d.
Silver Tops, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
NO ADVANCE. FRFETRADE PRICES.
THE FEDERAL TARIFF.
THIS I HAVE ANTICIPATED.
MY CASH PURCHASES have been Enormous,
and I am in a position to sell at EREETRADE
PRICES. £32,000 worth of
WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELLERY, and
SILVERPLATE
to choose from. It will pay, and save you 25 to 50 per
cent. This is a consideration.
ALT, ARTICLES POST FREE.
Ati,..,,,] THE WELL KNOWN JEWELLER
. oaunutilh, AND SILVERSMITH.
815 and 817 GEORGE-STREET,
Nearly Opposite Railway Station.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, Pure Silver,
best Bristles, “Cherub” Design
18s 6d. Other styles, 20s, 255,
30s, £2. for Pattern
EREETFA 'E BOOK.
n,km.
m,.
m, kj
A. SAUNDERS.
FREETRADE PRICES. SAVE YOU 25 to 50 PER CENT.
Full-sized TOILET SET, Beautifully Chased, and Ornamented, in three patterns, “ Watteau ’ as
above, “ Cherub,” and “ Floride,” Chased and Embossed Designs, Containing two Hair Brushes,
Hat and Cloth Brush, Mirror, Shoe Hook and Lift, £l2 10s. A most acceptable Ladies present.
■C^-4
’ f' * ■*.
M
0
1
0
] §MBk
4i
s&'M
m
K rJ
FREETRADE PRICES. SAVE YOU 25 to 60 PER CENT.
A. SAUNDERS’ Newest Style in Pare Solid Silver Chased and Embossed,
4 o’clock Sugar Cream SPOON and TONGS, in Silk-lined Case. We
Stock three patterns similar to Illustration, £4 10s. A useful present.
A. SAUNDERS’ Pure Silver Pencils. We stock in every style, ss, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
Gold, 15s, 20s, 255, 80s, £2. Shall be pleased to send post free anywhere.
FREETRADE PRICES. NO ADVANCE.
*3- BEND YOUR ORDERS TO A. SAUNDERS.
I DO NOT INTEND TO ADVANCE MY PRICES.
FREETRADE PRICES-NO ADVANCE.
samm
n 'V
NOW IS THE TIME TO BUY ALL ARTICLES
AT FREETRADE PRICE?.
y t
«SB&&
A. SAUNDERS’ FREETRADE PRICES.
Dessert KNTVES*and FORKS, Silver-plated, Nicely
Chased, £2 15s. 12 Pairs, £4 10s, £5, £s'los.
A Useful Present.
Mi II
o
A. SAUNDERS’ FREETRADE PRICES.
Two Peppers, Mustard, Pure Sol d Silver, Beautifully
Chased and Finished, in Case, £2 10s.
ags
m
A SAUNDERS. NO ADVANCE.
Jam SPOON and Butter KNIFE, Pure Solid
Silver, in Silk-lined Ca e, 15s 61.
Pure Sol d Silver Badger
Hair SHAVING
BRUSH, 12s Cd. Other
styles, 15 - and 20s.
A Nice Present.
A. SAUNUMts.
Smelling Salts BOTTLE, Pure Silver,
255. Other styles, Silver Top, 2s Gd,
ss, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s
9
Gent.’s “ COMPANION',” or Letter Book,
Pure Silver Moun + od. ud. 15s, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Solid Silver-mounted PEPPERS and
SALTS, in 3 sizes, 4s 6d, 6- Cl, 7s 6d.
EREETRADE PRICES.
SAVE 25 to 50 PER CENT.
Ladies’ TOILET TABLE, Pure Solid Silver Pin TRAY, Artistically Chased
and Ornamented, 10s 6d. We stock in large quantity.
. A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted KNIFE RESTS, in
Bilk-lined Case, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS
EREETRADE PRICES.
M&eeeeMJfsfi
BBMB
wmm
A. SAUNDERS’
FREETRADE PRICES.
THIMBLES, Silver Steel'
lined, 2s 6d, 8s 6d, 4s 6d.
Pure Silver-
mounted
HAIR PIN
HOLDRR, 6s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALTS, Pure Silver-mounted, White Cut CHasa
in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d.
A.. SAUNDERS’ CAKE SERVER, Pure Solid Silver, Pearl Handle, in three styles, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
The very latest London style.
Call and See oar Jewellery Exhibition—A Splendid Display; or send for our 1901 Complete Illustrated Book, Post Free anywhere.
A. SAUNDERS.
SAVE 25 to 50
PER CENT.
LEADING ART JEWELLER,
SAVE 25 to 50
PER CENT.
815 & 817 GEORGE-STREET,
Nearly Opposite
Railway Station,
SYDNEY-


Banking, Public Companies, &©.
tJpon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
<&
1&
811. I*3
DISCOUNTED.
:KT.S.rW.
IQont deplete j)J I. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
<74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Nrw SOUTH WALES MONT DE PIETE D. and
I. COMPANY LIMITED,
74 CASTLEREAGII STREET, SYDNEY.
GENERAL MEETING.
A GENERAL MEETING of the SHAREHOLDERS in
-‘L the above Company will be held on FRIDAY, 31sY
INST., upon the Company’s premises, as above, at
11.30 a.m.
By order of the Board of Directors,
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Business : To receive Directors’ Report and Balance Sheet
and to transact any other business that may be
brought before the meeting in accordance with the
Articles of Association.
Dated 16th January, 1902.
NEW SOUTH WALES MONT DE PIETE D. and
I. COMPANY LIMITED,
74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
rpnE TRANSFER BOOKS of this Company will be
A CLOSED from 16th to 31st inst. inclusive.
By order,
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Dated 16th January, 1902.
-THE-
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - * 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Ro hurts,
C.M.0., M.L.C. ; Bruck Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372 —assuring £26,085,346.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. I .iberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
fhe Bank of Qorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director - JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders * 250 000 ... £350,000
Queensland Smelting (Jumpy.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
IJUYEItS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
13 Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap, ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street. Melbourne.
jjeiu Zealand Insurance go.
FIRE and fVIARIIME.
CAPITAL .. . • • ■ - • • £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Laryest Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
81 Pitt St., Sydney.
Tb« TrOstccs, itorS,
AND
AgSOCV Lityitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business)
Amount at Credit of Estates. Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1901 x
£160,000 0 0
£90,000 0 0
£150,000 0 0
£BB5B 7 3
6,388,976 5 3
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman: John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.O.
JAMES BORItOWM AN, Manager.
FIIEDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED. -
CAPITAL PAID-UP £385,187
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 245,119
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 55,000
£685,306
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Ass. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. o/ London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of the Colonies.
Directors—Sydney : Sir W. M'Millan, Hon. A. W. Meeks.
Adelaide : L. A. Jkssop, Esq. Wellington : H.
Rrapchamp, Esq.
Managers: -Melbourne, D. Clynb ; Adelaide, VV. N.
M’Farlane; Brisbane, K. Wilson; Perth, A. W.
lakowmar ; Wellington, N.Z., O. M. Monte FIORE-
J, J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Snipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
10
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Sat., Jan. 25, 12 Noon.
Leura, Saturday, Feb. 1,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Undaunted, Tuesday, Feb. 11, 5 p.
(Cargo Only).
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Undaunted, Tuesday, Feb. 11, 5 p.m.
(Cargo Only).
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Sat., January 2!
Burwah, Tuesday, Jan.
Peregrine, Sat., Feb. 1,
5, 12 Noon.
28, 5 p.m.
12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Saturday, Jan. 25, 12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat., Feb. 1, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Govviie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot of King-street.
TH€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following will leave SYDNEY
Name of Steamer.
MORAVIAN
AUSTRALASIAN
SOPOOHLES
Leave
Sydney
at 3 p.m.
Feb.
March
All vile auuvc iic.c
“iSiSE&Xi I mTE-i- »“■ *«“ **»
of the Red Sea. . .
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY^
Huddart, parker & Co’s Line
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
kjlj
id
lines
jk
San Francisco,
California.
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS,
SIERRA
SONOMA
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P.
Length, 426 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.
BURNS, PIIILP & CO., LTD.,
Managing Agents,
Pirr and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
TIME TA.BLE.
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
THE “ALL RED” MAIL ROUTE
TO LONDON.
THE ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
OF THE
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
Under contract with the Governments of New South
Wales, Queensland, and Canada, leave Sydney every
four weeks as under, for
BRISBANE, HONOLULU, VICTORIA and VANCOUVER.
Connecting at Vancouver with the
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
This is the Imperial Route Home, as well as the most at-
tractive. It avoids alike the heat of the Red Sea and the
cold of Cape Horn. The railroad journey between the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans fVancouver to Montreal)
occupies about 4 days, and is made _ '
WITHOUT CHANGE OF CARRIAGES,
through the grandest scenery in the world—over the
Selkirk and Rocky Mountains, across the Prairies, and
along the North Shore of Lake Superior.
Passengers have the choice of a number of overland
routes, enabling them to visit the principal cities of
Canada and the United States. , „ ■ . ,
For Railway Maps, Guide Books, and all other mfornia-
tion, STEAM SH |p COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .-.
Amount of Capil al payable by Shareholders
2,000,000
600,000
Total Capital •• £2j6oo^ooo_
LADIES
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FR BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Educational.
The Ballarat School of Mines.
FTTHIS SCHOOL, with its large staff and very
JL extensive appliances, affords special advan-
tages to students desirous of obtaining a Diploma
in Mine Engineering or Metallurgy, or Certifi-
cates as Mine Manager or Assayer, or of gaining
special instruction in any other subjects apper-
taining thereto —
Chemistry, Metallurgy, Geology, Mining
Engineering, Surveying, Electrical Engi-
neering, Mathematics and Physics.
Duties resumed 3rd FEBRUARY.
Prospectus on application.
FRED. J. MARTELL,
Director.
Business, memory, figures.— “ a business
man’s book, really a useful little work, gives a host
of sound business maxims and valuable hints.” —S. E.
News. “The memory system is ingenious.”—S.M. Herald.
“ Crowded w ith curious short cuts of calculation ; should
lead on to fortune.”—S.D. Teleoraph. Postal note, Is.
J. 0. COX, DARLING ST., BALMAIN, SYDNEY.
Fair girls and gray horses
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
N. 13. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
♦Twin screw.
Leaving MELBOURNE Wednesday after Sydney.
REGULAR SERVICE to SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN, 2478 Tons,
LEAVING SYDNEY ON 20ch FEBRUARY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents. _ _ . „
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
Publications.
TRICMLOC!)
SKIN DISEASES
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, By Dr.
ALFRED NEALE. Posted 7d.
AND THEIR TREATMENT.
Posted Is Id.
Publishers ; Turner and Henderson, SYDNKY*
THE BALLET GIRL
jkl
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, la.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Hovsttiu.
Madame Panza,—
913, GjP.O., SYDNEY.
Musical Instruments, &o.
Cheapest House In Australia for EDISON
PHORO6RSPHS and RECORDS
REEVES & CO.
KINO WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE .
“BIJOU,” with 6 Records £1 17 6
EDISON “ STANDARD,” with 24 Records .. 5 10 O
EDISON “ HOME,” with 30 Records.. .. SlO O
COMBINATION A 1 “ GRAND,” taking both
Large and Small Records, with 12 Records,
6 Concert (siin.) Records, and Large Horn 10 10 O
EDISON RECORDS, English and American, 20/- per do*.
CONCERT (sjin.) RECORDS .. .. 60/- „
Send for Cata-
logues contain-
ing 5000 Selec-
tions to choose
from. Illustra-
ted Catalogues
of Electric Fans
(complete with
Battery, £5),
Electric Bike
Lamps, Flash-
Lights,Scarf-Pin
Lights, Vapour
Bath Cabinets,
etc., Free.
Records can
be posted to any
address, postage
1/6 per dozen.
r
9
Machines carefu'Jy parked and forwarded to a*j part ef
Auetralaaia.
Sbipplng.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian!
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT I*l HIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Marloo,
Saturday, February I
(without transhipment).
8.8. Allinga,
Friday, January 24.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns
S.S. Adelaide, (Oapt. D. P.
Davies), Saturday, Jan. 25.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers oi the A.U.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith Co-
Ld. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
g. s. Street. Sydney,
A. U. S. N. Coy Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Maokay*
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, arid Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Islan 1,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenger A ce.omniodution, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. 11. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO, Ltd., Agents, 111 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australaaian_Ports__
PAND O. COMPANY’S
■ ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knotj Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
Steamer.
Oominander
Sydney,
Noon
HIMALAYA
CHINA
♦ARCADIA
♦INDIA
♦OCEANA
6898 W. L. Broun, R.N.R. 'Jan. 25
7912 T. S. Angus ... . •- |Feb. 8
6663 A. 0. Loggin .. Feb. 19
.. 7911 W. D. G. Worcester, R.N.R. March 5
.. 6603 C. Gadd ... .. .. March 19
* Via Hobart.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to £/7
Ditto Ditto Return, £7llos to £L2I
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific, and
Messageries Maritimes Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
—nnniin.ni w ■ i i hi mu
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with Liie
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
Steamer
Com-
mander.
S Noon y ’ i
Noon - Ip.m.
AUSTRALIEN Verron
V. de la CIOTAT Fiaschi
POLYNESIEN .. Chevalier
Feb. 17 Feb. 20
March 17 March 20
April 14 April 17
Ade-
laide,
Ip.m.
Feb. 22
March 22
April 19
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £B7 to £77,
including table wines. T
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meal
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Custom*
eta and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Oomer, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. ANP A.” LINE.
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darw in.
Steamer.
iTns Commander. | Leave Sydney.
EASTERN • 3600,Winthrop Ellis .. January 2#
AIRLIE ... 2500 St. John George. . February 16
AUSTRALIAN .. 3000 P. T. Helms .. March 16
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific and other Steamship
Companies.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agent*
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
m^liuraith.HrEacharn&gj).
PROP. LTD.
THE FAVORITE STEAMERS
KALGOOBLIB, 4500 TONS,
COOLGABDIE, 3500 TONS,
SAIL PORUfIGUILY between
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, and
West Australian Ports.
Passenger Accommodation Unsurpassed. Liberal Cuisine
M'ILWRAITH, M'EACHARN AND CO.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Albany and Fremantle
Sydney Agents— BUßNS, PHILP & CO. Ltd.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
A POLICY FOR THE
Now Ready.
I’rice o<l. :
Jfosted, Bd.
COMMONWCALTH


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
A most useful Veterinary Book is attached
to every bottle of Gondy's Fluid. This Book
contains instructions for curing most of the
ailments and accidents affecting Horses,
Dogs, Sheep, Cattle and Poultry.
Eminent Veterinary Surgeons recom-
mend Gondy’s Fluid as an absolutely
certain cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
Broken Knees, Grease, Thrush and
Cracked Heels in Horses—Scab. Foot
Rot, Fly, etc., in Sheep—Hoove, Foul in
the Foot, Wounds and Sores in Cattle.
Condy's Fluid is made by Condy &
Mitchell, Ltd., of 65, Goswell Road,
London, England, and is sold by all
Chemists and Stores. Beware of Colonial
substitutes, feisistonhaving Condy’s Fluid.
kjl
GrO I*o TT~F!T -T
IGOIjAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagep,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, prioe*
lists gratis.
HATS. HATS. HATS.
MountcastSe & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes tatted with this
valuable invention.
Catalogue to MOIKItCaStSQ & SOHSj
BRISBAKTEJ.
important Announcement to our City and Countf
Constituents.
WALTCR BRAPLCY # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Georgs Street, Sydnay,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALS
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
{3??“ Soles Held at the Auction A looms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-sC
FOR THE COMPLEXION
in emolient, soothing and healing pre«-
paration for preserving and beautifying the*
skin in all climates; it cools and refreshes
the Face and Arms in hot weather, removes
Freckles, Tan, Sunburn, Redness and Rough-
ness of the Skin, heals all cutaneous Erup-
tiens and Insect Stings, produces
SOFT, VELVETY SKIN,
Imparts a luxuriant beauty to the com-
plexion and a matchless whiteness to the
Heck and Arms unobtainable by any other
means. It has been known for the last 75
years as the most curative and harmless
preparation ladies can use. Ask Stores and
Chemists for Rowland’s Kalydor, of 67,
Hatton, Garden, London.
SIMPSON’S SULKIES & BUGGIES
Good Work
Lowest Price
Cash Only
Factory and Showroom: 73 KINO STREET, NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Queensland Labor Party vexed the soul of
the piebald Philp Ministry last day of the session
by carrying a resolution condemning the leasing
of sugar-growing lands to Chinese.
N.S.W. Assembly has voted £5OOO for
the salaries of four commercial agents to be located
in London, South Africa, China, and Japan.
There are over 200 applicants, amongst them some
members of the Legislature.
Westralia has long been thinking, with a
slow Westralian think, about putting up a fence
to stop the westward march of bunny. It has
shifted that fence in its mind several times. The
two latest reports are that a line has been decided
on, and that the rabbits are already 70 miles
beyond that line.
The Victorian Ministry has appointed a
Treasury clerk and the caretaker of some gardens
at Creswick to act as two Conservators of Forests
in the place of the late G. D. Perrin. After this,
the denuded tree country should blossom forth
with neatly-cut grass and blotting paper and other
towering timber.
The Tailoresses' Union delegates have
seceded from the Sydney Labor Council, taking
as sympathetic companions most of the socialist
delegates. There is a general feeling of relief in
the Council; throughout its history the appear-
ance of the “lady delegate” has always been the
forerunner of storms.
How long are the ignorant J.P. fatmen of
Victoria to be allowed to sit on the Bench
and sneer at the Factories Act, in addi-
tion to nullifying its provisions by
imposing ridiculously small fines ?
A case which occurred at the
Prahran Court the other day
fairly indicates the attitude
of the bulk of the honorary
magistrates towards pro-
gressive legislation. A
Chinese laundry-man was
up for permitting work
to be done during pro-
hibited hours. He
pleaded guilty, and
then the Js.P. on
the Bench —Phipps
and Gooch—pro-
ceeded to say
funny things
about the case.
Phipps remark-
ed that “ the
Chinaman ought
to be .sent to
gaol.” Gooch
then contributed
his bit of spark-
ling wit, and
said, “ Oh, dear,
no! hang the
man.” The court
could not get on
with its business
for a time by
reason of the
laughter of
Phipps and
Gooch at their
own jokes. A
fine of ss. was
i mpose d.
Will the man
who calls
himself the
father of
the Fac-
tories
Act, and
who hap-
pens now
to be Pre-
mier, ;ake
action by
enact in g that
the minimum
punishment for
breach of the Act
shall be not less
than so much, and
thereby make it im-
possible for small-beer
humorists on the Bench
to absolutely nullify the statute? Not much I
W. P. Crick, N.S.W. Minister for Lands,
has achieved more distinction—he has been burned
in effigy. Some Darling River settlers think so little
of his new Western Lands Act that they have flamed -
up in this way. The worst offence of the measure
is held to be the provision relating to the throwing
open of only one-eighth of existing pastoral leases
for closer settlement. But, after all, that marks
a pretty big advance on the previous Acts, which
aimed not at opening up even an eighth of the
leases, but at turning the open country into
leasehold.
Seddon and Ward are losing no time in
nobbling the M.L. Farmers’ Union. At a big
meeting held at Gore recently, Joseph the Wily
addressed the local members, and a vote of confi-
w? 1 ? 6 ! ' ll le Ministry was passed unanimously.
Which wasn’t at all what the originators of the
Union bargained for.
For the year ended June, 1900, the number
of unemployed who applied for work at the
N.S.W. Labor Bureau was 6003. For last year
(to June, 1901) it was 12,252. Work was found
for 9803 of these, but in 8292 cases it was Govern-
ment work paid for out of loan moneys. The
Jolly and Fat policy was a disappointment to the
very last.
Queensland pro-Kanakas still cherish a
hope, founded on the fact that under the Common-
wealth Constitution the vice-regal assent to an
Act can be withdrawn by the King, at any time
within twelve months from its being given by the
Governor-General. The Queensland State Govern-
ment is said to be now making strong representa-
tions to Chamberlain about its lost nigger.
The Dutch have organised a “ British
Boycott League,” pledged not to buy any goods
of British make or origin. But there are two
ends to a boycott, and the Dutch may have got
hold of the wrong one. Last year Britain bought
from Holland a great deal more than Holland
bought from Britain, and if Britain boycotts
Mynheer in return Mynheer will fall in badly.
Cablegram from London re the opening of
Parliament:—
Premier Salisbury also solemnly warned the Liberals of
the danger to the empire resulting from any failure, how-
ever slight, with regard to a recognition of the ABSO-
LUTE SUPREMACY OP THE KING.
The ABSOLUTE SUPREMACY OF THE
KING. Britain hasn’t heard words like these
since the time of Charles I.
“ Pukaki ” writes from Wellington :
Though recruits came forward freely for the Eighth
M.L. contingent, they were not up to the stamp of for-
mer drafts. In Wellington, despite the multitude which
presented itself, the authorities failed to find sufficient
properly qualified men to fill up the district’s section of
the contingent. Of the Auckland squad 20 didn’t turn
up when the boat left, and several more deserted on the
way down to Wellington. Police warrants cut short the
military career of more than one prospective contingenter.
The democratic members of the Federal
Parliament should make a resolute protest against
any proposal to adjourn for Edward Vll.’s corona-
tion, if that step means delaying
such pressing matters as
Federal quarantine, the es-
tablishment of a Federal
Judiciary and the Inter-
state Commission, the
selection of a
capital, &c.
ITALIANO.
“ How is it. Signor, that you Italians sing so
much better than other people?”
“ Well, it is ze maccaront dat we eat. It makes
us all organ pipa winda.”
“Nonem ” writes from the sunset:
Touching western lands in N.S.W. I do not know if
you are aware that the reductions in rents and in
purchase price of these lands, made by the local Land
Boards, have been appealed against by the Minister for
Lands, although the Western Lands Commission advised
such reductions in its report. The Government seems
always to promise to ameliorate the condition of the
western settlers, but never does it, and this latter action
only bears out past history. Surely the country can be
awakened to the fact that the western settlers are being
crushed out of existence by this fraud of a Government.
AN ADVERTISEMENT.
Pertinently asked by a Maoriland paper
why the recently-formed Farmers’ Union hasn’t
protested against the despatch of an eighth con-
tingent. Last harvest the scarcity of hands was
bad enough, but it will be far worse this season,
with another 1000 men sent away just as har-
vesting commences. Farmers will soon realise
the grim fact that they have to buy their labor in
the dearest market and sell their exported produce
in the cheapest.
Awful tales about the leaking and general
cracking-up of the pipes used in Westralia’s great
Foolhardy water scheme are in circulation. The
300-odd miles of pipes are not nearly laid yet, and
there is already talk about the necessity for relay-
ing much of the work. It seems fairly possible
that Coolgardie will be as extinct as Babylon by
the time the water arrives there, though John
Forrest still prophesies that the tardy fluid will
be on hand by the end of 1902.
Rumor drifts around to the effect that
B. R. Wise’s chance for the High Commissioner-
ship is rapidly passing. The men said to be
in it are Bigjohn Forrest, Malcolm M‘Eacharn,
Langdon Bonython, and G. H. Reid. George
can have the billet for the asking. As for Bigjohn,
report says he is a strong second favorite. The
two other knights have evidently been given some
reason to hope that the job will come their way,
and their assumption of indifference is painfully
overdone. Neither knight has any qualifications
for the position, but they are both bloated with
riches.
There was a fearsome stench in the Bana-
naland Parliament some months ago when it was
clearly proven that a Brisbane journal of no in-
fluence and little circulation was being subsidised
to the tune of £lO weekly—per advertisements.
The thing was so bad that even the spineless
Brisbane Telegkaph had to denounce it, and
Philp himself promised immediate reformation.
Just one week after the close of the session, afore-
said journal is trotted out again with 1U pages of
Govt, advts. in one issue—value about £69. And
no one in Brisbane bothers. They’re used to that
sort of thing.
Premier Seddon is not game to apply the
gag to influential anti-jingoes in M.L., but his
Government can vent its petty spite on small
public servants with safety. James B. Murray,
head teacher of the Kirikiri public school, has
been dismissed because he refused to obey the
Board of Education’s ukase to salute “ The Flag.”
Murray protested :
I cannot salute any flag—that is, personally salute it,
as I would a human being ; it is against my conscience.
I have taken occasion to ask every man I got into con-
versation with, and who had served in the British regular
army, if he had ever been asked to salute the flag when a
soldier, otherwise than by saluting the officers carrying
the flags when “ trooping colors.” I always got the same
answer that they had not.
But he was nevertheless sacked : the mean rage
of the pro-Gore party must be sated on someone.
The weakness of the permanent commis-
sion appointed to administer Western N.S.W.
lands seems to lie in the absence of a man with
financial experience—a weakness which looks all
the more serious because one of the Commission’s
most important duties, perhaps the most impor-
tant of all, is to ’secure better terms for the 'man
on the land from the man in the bank. Of the
three commissioners, two, C. J. M‘Master and
R. Macdonald, are old Lands Dept, officers ; each
has had long experience, first as district surveyor
and then as land board chairman in the Western
district; and each has shown more than average
administrative capacity. The third commissioner,
“ Hughie ” Langwell, got into N.S.W. Assembly,
as member for Bourke, after the last big shearers’
strike ; but he soon went out of politics. The
Reid Government resurrected him in the batch of
semi-Laborites “called” to the Leg. Council.
The Western Lands Commissioners’ billets are
worth £IOOO a year each.
Westralia’s adherence to fch«-
old traditions of the convict days-
got back on it badly a little while
ago. There were 46 aboriginal
prisoners in Rcebourne gaol, and
early on Xmas morning 44 of them
escaped. They carried out the
flogging apparatus, leaned it up
against the wall of the yard,
streamed up it like a row of black
ants, and evaporated down the
other side. All the officials could
do, ere going forth to spend their
Xmas racing over the country in
pursuit of their 44 lost niggers
under a scorching sun and through
a thick sand cloud, was to curse the
flogging apparatus.
Premier Philp, of Queens-
land, has been telling a Townsville
audience that “ the present posi-
tion of affairs in Queensland re-
quires old hands and men of ex-
perience at the helm.” In other
words, it requires the continued
presence in office of the gang of old
bunglers and dotards which has run
the show for twenty years or so,
and which has only the present
lamentable position of affairs to-
offer as the result of its labors.
The O’Sullivan (the N.S.W.
institution of that name) has-
broken out in a fresh place with a
a naval programme. It is true he
has only got as far as deciding on
the names which his fleet will bear
—75 “euphonious and significant
aboriginal titles,” whose English
meanings range from “small-pox”
to “ why weepest thou ? ” As mud
and garbage punts and pleasure
achts are built or acquired, each will have bestowed
on it one of the chosen gems of aboriginal euphony.
Considering the use to which Government yaehts-
are usually put in N.S.W., the O’Sullivan might
more appropriately have sought out the native-
equivalents for such phrases as “ Gold hair and
Gold top,” “Little Ducky ” and “High Jinks.”
Daily paper telegram from Lithgow
(N.S.W.):
At the ironworks theonly departments working are the
bar and guide mills, which have put in full time since -
Monday. The sheet mills remain idle. It is not defi-
nitely known when these mills will again make a start.
About 100 employees have been rendered idle by their-
stoppage.
Exactly. The Foreign-trade and Joe Cook party
got the Protective duty on certain products of these-
works amended out of the tariff, and the slump,
follows promptly. Another Australian industry
is thus sacrificed to the foreign importer.
One of the retiring Broken Hill munici-
pal councillors this year is Jabez Wright, who is
blamed for nearly all the disasters of the past two
years. He is not standing again. The bill for
the recent Equity suits over the rates levied on
the B.H. mines is believed to run to over £12,000.
The ap{ eal to the Privy Council is being pro-
ceeded with—and the mines are proceeding with
some more Equity cases. Meantime, the condition
of the town, which has practically no monev to
pay for anything, is a thing of sorrow. Men
named Jabez may mean well, but they have no
luck.
Maoriland Premier Seddon is sending an
eighth contingent, and offering more contingents
later on. Meanwhile, despite the increase in the
revenue, there are signs of serious financial em-
barrassment, and the war-bill is evidently eating,
vulture-fashion, into the State’s resources. Maori-
land, for its population, hascontingented far more-
violently than any other State, and it has the
heaviest war-bill to face. Public works are coming
to a standstill for lack of funds, and men are
being discharged in all directions. The work of
building the North Island Trunk Railway has
closed down, and Seddon confesses there is no
cash left to go on with. The Government has-
even turned dog in the matter of subsidies to local
bodies. On some technical plea, which has never
been raised before, it is refusing to pay subsidies
which were passed on the Estimates, and in
reliance on which several local bodies have entered
into large contracts. If Seddon goes ’Ome to the
Coronation he will have to take something with
him to put up the spout.
Mr. A. R. Barclay, M.H.R. for Dunedin
(M.L.), and a well-known barrister, writes to a
local paper:—
The time has come when equitable terms of peace
should be offered to the Boers. The honor of England
has been deeply stained by this war. It is a scs ndalous
and infamous war. It has excited the horror of the
civilised world, who would never have expected to see
Britain in South Africa copying the methods of warfare
adopted by General Weyler in Cuba. . . . The fact is
that this war has been unnecessary and unjust from the
start, and the people of Britain are now at last thoroughly
grasping the truth. They are rapidly coming to the con-
clusion that the time has come when we should cease
choking the life out of these ragged, wretched farmers.
. . . The irony of the thing is that all this is being done
under the cloak of sacred patriotism, and we are told we
are fighting for “ King and country” ! What a mockery 1
What a falsehood ! The truth is, we are fighting to grab
somebody else’s country in the interests of the South
African Chartered Cos. and financial magnates who coveted
the Transvaal wealth.
Will Premier Seddon now fulfill his implied pro-
mise to Mr. Chamberlain, and immure this traitor
in Wellington’s deepest dungeon —or behead him?


The Pianola will play any piano .
one can play it
Any
Ztk (ptanofa
1
And What It Means to the
Heretofore Passive Listener
&
A NY ONE CAN BE A PLAYER and individualize his
/wk own identity in his rendition of the piece.
Z—lt stands as the “open door” to the world of
JL j9L music—its delights, its influences, its education.
The prohibitory tariff of years of patient and tedious
practicing to acquire the technical ability of striking
the right note at the right time has been completely wiped away.
Of the “ technique ” the Pianola is complete master.
In “tempo” and “expression” it is your servant and as
responsive as the human fingers, which, after all, are but finely
adjusted mechanism controlled by the mind.
It is the only piano-player which appeals to musicians as
well as novices. ,
No other piano-player has ever received the endorsement of
a musician.
This fact, coupled with the source of pleasure it opens to
every household, should induce every one to investigate it.
You are cordially invited to call and hear this wonderful instrument. We keep a
staff of assistants whose sole duty is to show the Pianola and ./Eolian to visitors,
to explain and to play these instruments. We are glad to show the Pianola
to the merely curious as well as to the intending purchaser.
If unablt to call, writ* for Catalogut
0
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.,
Sole Agents for Australasia,
323 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Pianola is sold at no other address
in Sydney.
jk
o
LETT
( CILDED COPPER made in ONE PIECE )
for outside artistic advertk
SOLE AGENTS
FOR AUSTRALASIA.
TEL 744-..
ILsiisn JJosais &£@ t
<§E®R<S(i §? SY BWEY.
Extract from one daily paper version of
Captain Galloway’s account of the abandonment
of the Port Patrick, off Wilson’s Promontory
(vessel subsequently picked up by a tug, unin-
jured) :
He urged the crew to be men and stick to their vessel.
Hoping to inspire them, he sang three verses of the well-
known song, “ Stick to the Ship, Lads,” but it was of no
avail, and they stubbornly refused to accede to his
request.
This picturesque incident was denied promptly
and at great length by members of the crew ; but,
as a shrieking storm was blowing, it would have
been quite possible for the captain to sing as
represented, and for his manly voice to be lost, in
the din of the tempest. But it has also been denied
by the captain, who states that he was inter-
viewed by telephone, and that either the tele-
phone wire was of an untrustworthy and romantic
frame of mind, or else the reporter misunderstood
plain nautieal language. Further, it has been (or,
if it hasn’t, it ought to have been) pointed out
that the well-known song quoted runs—
You stick to the ship, lads,
And I’ll save my life.
and that it is not at all inspiring, but only comic.
The Bulletin sincerely regrets all these denials.
What piquant possibilities are there in the story !
Imagine the British master mariner of the future,
guaranteed to sing inspiriting songs in all the
Asiatic languages, also in Greek, German, Italian,
Turkish and Bagdad, to encourage his “ bulldogs”
in case of accident. And even then the Argentine
sailor who begins to transpire on British ships
would have to sing to himself in Spanish.
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.*
AUSTRALIAN . . .
STAMPS
Highest Cash Prices Paid
to any amount for
O’d 02* Rare Stamps,
Uaad or llnu<ud
The First
Australian Stamp.
Bosk penny 0
For Sale—The Largest Stock ot STAMPS, ALBUMS, etc.*
in the Southern hemisphere.
BMYTH & NIGQLLE, 14 Euaier-st,, Sydney.
IMPORTANT TO MIMFRS,
KIDNEY TROUBLES
.... AND .....
MALARIAL FEVER
CURED BY
VITADATIO
Warwick, Queensland, May 28, 1901.
Sir, —Doubtless you will be glad to receive another
testimonv to the efficacy of your valuable remedy,
VITADATIO. t
About 12 months ago I went to the Ehagoolah gold-
fields, and thence to New Guinea, full of health and hope,
but it was not long before I became a victim to that
fearful climate, which completely undermined my health.
I was treated in Northern Queensland in two hospitals
without success, finally, and with difficulty that would
take too long to detail, I reached Brisbane, when I
secured your remedy, which, 1 am glad to say, at once
produced a magical effect, and ultimately restored me to
health and vigor.
I am delighted to be able to write thus, and would
suggest that you publish this in the papers circulating in
New Guinea, where 1 am so well known.
1 am not a doctor, but I believe my trouble was a severe
disorder of the kidneys, caused by and attended with
malarial fever.—Yours truly, „„„„
(Signed) ANDREW JAMIESON.
To S. A. Palmer, Vitadatio, 28/5/1901.
For further particulars,
S- A. PALMER ,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
Missing Friends.
JOHN BURROWES KELLY, last heard of at Rock-
hampton about nine years ago. Friends in Ireland
desire information, which will be thankfully received by
G. M. QUAID, 148 Queen-street, Brisbane.
“ All the Maoriland borough councils are
cabling to Mr. Chamberlain that he has their
support against his calumnators. Their support
All sense of humor has evidently departed from
M.L.
It
Cures without
jkl
Our New “ Booklet No. 2 ” tells all
about this wonderful Belt. Seud 2d.
in stamps for a copy.
Drugs!
still the
Letters Come.
19 Gwendoline St.,
Treherbert,
Rhonnda Valley, Glam.,
Feb. 22, 1901.
Pierce Electric Co.
Dear Sirs,—Two years
ago next April 1 bought
one of your Dr. Pierce’s
Galvanic Chain Belts,which
was, I am pleased to say,
the means of restoring me
to a grand state of health.
A few days’ use of your Belt
did me more good than all
the medicines 1 ever took ;
in fact, medicine was of no
use whatever. Electricity
is the remedy for me.
Yours truly,
Stephen Davies.
AOdreM-P IEBCE ELECTRIC 00., 206 Post St.,
San Francisco ; 1145 Broadway, kew York, L.B.A. ,or
W. H. SOUL & CO., 160 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
A copy of “A Policy for the Common-
wealth,” Th* Bdlletin’s particularly sue-
cernfol pamphlet, tviU be posted from t
any Australian address on receipt of Bd. m stamps
of any State).
Success in Life.
A Good Memory.
The worst cases of Forptfulness and Mmd
Wandering are successfully treated by t
PELMAH
METHOD
THE .GREAT AID *>
Preachers, Teachers, P“/>^ c S^J erS '
Students, Professional Men, and
Business Men.
Hundreds of Testimonials from Successful Students.
SUCCESSFULLY TAUGHT BY POST.
SEND FOR PROSPECTUS, TESTIMONIALS, Ac.
. . THE SECRETARYp
THE PELMAN SCHOOL of MEMORY TRAINING,
4 Bloomsbury Street, London j
or Australasian Branch, C.P.O. Box 402, Mslbourno
The High-Class Smoking Mixture
99
HAS NO EQUAL IN QUALITY.
MILO. MEDIUM.
In £lb. ob AIR-TIGHT TINS.
PULL.
08. J. *. AUSTIN -rltol “Afte, * W 'S“iSSTlr’fl'roSZ i d
If unobtainable at local Tobacconists, write to
M. RUTTY & Co., 68 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
[4-10]
Sole Manufacturers : ARDATH TOBACCO CO., 44 Worship Street, London.
m
rupture cured, two guineas.
S^SS l SSsa‘^.Jos^W l ioS^jKS ; Sa
a-tft-rsaxa ?“
M,c " ET, %^™ B Ufrr».^rr^ , ”.r i “•
<* CALLAGHAN
BOOT
FOR MEN
BY POST.
m
■
MXtB-
HEEL
BBTIP-
HALL
Boots
Exchanged
or
Money
Refunded^
YOU’VE
NO
RISK
IN
FIT!
If your feet are hard to fit, simply place a foot
on a piece of paper and draw a pencil lmeclose
around it for correct shape of tread ; measure
with a tape as indicated, medium tight, giving
inches and fractions of inches Measure
over a tight sock. Always quote size of
Boot you wear, and, if possible, send an old
Boot with measurement.
Men’s Finest French Calf LACE, medium wide welts, bespoke appearance, 23/6;
post paid, 23/6.
Tan Willow LACE, full goloshed, fast color eyelets, 23/6; post paid, 24/6.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 George St., Sydney


TWENTY-SEVENTH HALF-YEARLY REPORT OF
THE BANK OF NORTH QUEENSLAND Ltd
To the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on 24th January , 1902.
L-The Directors have pleasure in submitting- to the Shareholders the Twenty-seventh Wnif ,
Balance Sheet as on the 31st December, 1901. se\entn Half-yearly Report an
2.— The net Profits for the Half-year, after deducting Rebate on Bills Current Interest- on TWnuii„
ing all Charges, and providing for Bad and Doubtful Debts, amount to ’ fc Deposits > P a T-
To which is to be added : Balance from last Half-year ‘.l ;; fu I
which the Directors recommend to be appropriated as follows £3,145 19
T °Dividend Tax 1 * 16 Half ' year at * ,he rate of 2 i P er cent. per annum 1 250 0
„ Reserve Fund (making £12,500) .. . . " * 62 10
„ Balance carried forward to next Half-year" * ®
Wm ' COmnS ’ ESq " r6tireS aS Erector In'rotatio,
4 -“K^i^r y t 0 6leCt an AUrHtor - a PP° lntc
Br.sbane, nth January, 1902. ’ 4 . s . COWLKT. Chairman.
§r.
BALANCE SHEET OF THE BANK OF NORTH QUEENSLAND LIMITED.
FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER, ]9Ol.
&
Deposits £256,079 6 11
Treasury Note Account 33.333 0 0
Interminable Debentures 15 700 0 0
•Bills Payable and other Liabilities.. .. 43,273 13 1
Capital ..£350,000 0 0
Less Reserve
Liability .. 250,000 0 0
Reserve Fund
Profit and Loss
348,386 0 0
100,000 0 0
11,250 0 0
3,145 19 0
■ 114,395 19 0
£462,781 19 0
Coin, Bullion, and Cash Balances .. .. £72 174 7
Treasury Notes on Hand .. .. .. 16,141 0
Remittances in Transit to Branches and
A £ euts 57,727 3
146,042 10 '
Government Stock 15 600 0
Bills Discounted and all other Debts due
to Bank., .. _ _ 281 118 13 3
Bank Premises, Furniture’ and Stamp ~
Accounts 20,020 15 £
£462,781 19 C
A.KTX3 X-OSS A-OCOXJKTT.
To Salaries, Rent, and other charges at Head
Office, 11 Branches and 2 Agencies , ,£6,685 8 1
, Interest paid and accrued on Deposits and
Treasury Note Account 2,748 14 1
„ Balance 3,145 19 0
£11,581 1 2
By Balance from last Half-year.. .. .. £6lO 1
~ Gross Amount of Profit for Half-year .. 10,97 )19
£11,581 1
RES3BII.VE! FUKTID,
To Balance
£11,250 0 0
£11,250 0 0
By Balance £lO,OOO 0 i
„ Transfer from Profit and Loss Account.. 1,250 0 i
£11,250 0 (
Audited and found correct-.—lpjfQg
O. LANG, F.F.I.A.
STEELE,
}
Auditors.
A. S. COWLEY, Chairman of Directors.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Mana jpa .
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
We have examined the foregoing Balance Sheet, made up to 31st December, 1901, and report that we find tli
several items therein stated to conform to the Balances at Head Office, and to the Balance Sheets furnished by th
various Branches, the latter being certified to by the respective Managers and Accountants. We have counted tl
Cash and examined the Bills held by the Bank at the Head Office in Brisbane on the 31st ult., and hereby certify th i
we have found them correct. We further certify that, in our opinion, the Balance Sheet is full and fair proper
drawn up, and exhibits a true and correct view of the affairs of the Bank as shown by the Books on the 3D t
D cember, 1901.
Brisbane, 11th January, 1902.
GILB. T. 0. LANG, F.F.1.A.,
THOS. B. STEELE,
Auditors.
WOOL PRODUCE. GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
A.CT A.S SELX.IKT& BROKERS OTVrT.-V
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION TOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (j) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
"(Including Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
‘ w 'll be 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb i 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
v under ... ... ... ... ... ... Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing. Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
W^IEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company.
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
AGENTS FOR McDOU GALL’S SHEEP DIP.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o OEFY COMZPEXITIOU.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
ELECTRICAL
and
MINING ENGINEERS,
MELBO^
NOTE NEW ADDRESS!
Yaralla Chambers,
109 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE Office: 15 &17 Queen Street.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS
Catalogue
Free . . .
French’s Acting Edition.
jk
Rare Books
French Novels
Books
for
the
Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Hooks Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
LIFE HAS
A RELISH
SAUG
s*m
When our meals are
seasoned with
SA UCE.
DAPTO (X.a,lse
(LIMIT HD).
XI 1«- warra),
SYDUEY.
SMELTERS.
• • 9
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OP
F<IN E SILVER.
ljk
ljk
MAKERS OP
“ S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILL AW ARRA”
..BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLABS, JEWELLERS’ SHEEP REFINERS of SILVER
highest prices paid for ores. prompt cash settlement on agreement of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc. apply to P. S. Mouse. Manager. Th Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd.. DAPTO, N.3.W.
LEAD BULLION


l
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale toy all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
jkl
A Policy for the Commonwealth,
PRICE, 6d.; Posted, Bd.
jk
ķlj
ljk
ķjl
MAKE YOUR OWN
/erated waters.
rpHE “ AUSTRAL ” AERATED WATER MACHINE occu-
pies only Four Feet Square, will produce 150 Dozen per day of
Finest Waters (LEMONADE, GINGER ALE, SODAWATER, &c.)
at a Cost below Fourpence per Dozen. This machine
supersedes all others for SIMPLICITY and USEFULNESS, as it
requires no skilled labor to work it.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214-216 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
THE
‘PLUM’
jk
THE
‘PLUM’
1 ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow
VJ pke a bell, and never requires grinding: Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
edo-e that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM ” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
ground, rings
exact kind of
, can testify to
Price
r Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Fair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21a
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part op the World.
Please add Gd. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
!Sllenburgs Foods.
A PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique In providing nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers of YOUNG INFANTS from
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
The “ Allenburys”
The “ Allenburys ”
Milk Food no. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
Milk Food No. 2
Similarly adapted to the second three months of file.
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
The “ Allenburys” Malted Food no. 3
For Infants oyer six months of age.
C « I * ■
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW’S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Food is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, the Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that—“No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 585. COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.
m
Dr. J. W. GIBBS’
. . Electric Massage Rollers . .
For use on Face and Body.
For NERVOUS HEADACHES,
NEURALGIA and RHEUMATISM
—a specific. Removes Wrinkles.
Gold, 21/- Silver, 16/-
Post Free. Pamphlets Free.
AMERICAN AGENCY COMPANY,
Box 440, G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
ORNAMENTAL hair.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
1 lair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers &. Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you xoant.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
ORA.IG & AITI^EW,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-652 George Street, Sydney.
ess
Pocket Knives make good, useful
Presents, especially when theyare fitted
with Silver or Gold Handles, such as we
illustrate above. All have rings on one
end, so that you can attach to chain.
The small size is suitable for a lady.
Solid Silver, 5/6, 6/6, 8/6. Solid Gold,
14/6, 22/6, 27/6.
ķj
This is an exceptionally handsome
Powder Jar of best English Cut Glass,
with charmingly-designed Solid Silver
Top and Mounts. Price, £2 15s.
m
m
We have just opened out the best lot
of Pin and Sweet Trays (in Solid Silver)
you could wish to see. Never have we
seen such pretty designs, combined
with so much finish and weight. The
prices for Pin Trays run 5 6, 6/6, 10/6,
11/6; and for Sweet Dishes, 6/6, 10/6,
13/6.
ljk
This Cut-Glass Butter Dish, with
strongly Silver-Plated Stand and Lid,
good for many years of use, only 12,6.
Lots of others, from 10/6 to 21/-.
jk
jkl
All Goods sent Free on Receipt of Remittance,
WRITE FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
jk
This shows quite a novel design of Brooch—two
15c. Gold Bars, with a Diamond in cent. e. n
which are set 4 lovely Opals, £2 12s 6d.
ķj
One of our most popular Brooches is illustiated
here. It is made of 9c. Gold, and has a pretty,
Opal-set Fly in the centre. Strong and Service-
able. £1 5s each.
WS3S
Va. >
This is a 2-Bar Brooch in 15c. Gold, with two
exquisite Opal Hearts and Opa'-set Star in centre.
The price is 10s.
kj
The New Bird, Bell and Leaf Brooch, 9c. Gold,
only 11/6.
ĵk
Bar and Crescent Brooch, in either a combination
of Diamonds and Rabies or Diamonds, and
Sapphires. Excellent value at £l2 10s.
ķjl
"'his shows the ever popular Nellie Stewart Biihgle. We stock
hree sizes, in 9c. ana 15c. Gold. The one we illustrate is the large
• ! ze. Each is perfectly made, with invisible joint and catch. 9c.
Gold, £2 10s, 43 3s, £4; 15c. Gold, £3 7s od, <5, £7.
jķj
l
T> o l New Zealand Greenstone, mounted with 9c. Gold, as Pendants
for gentlemen’s watch-chains. We make these in two sizes as
illustrated, 13 (i; size smaller, 12/6.
limm
The Fashionable Bamboo Bracelet, strong, well-made and
finished, and fitted with Safety Chain. 9c. Gold, ,
15c. Gold, £4.
kjk
The New Wire-effect Solid Silver Belt-Clasps, Strong
quite a change from the old style of Clasp. As above, 15/6,
1 of equally pretty design,.for 14/6.
make, and
. Another,
ljk
We have just 24 of these handy articles,
Teapot Stands, in stock ; so don’t be too
late. They save the table many a scorching
—a thing to he considered and guarded
against. They have pretty Tile Centres and
heavy Plated Mounts. Price, 10/6, post free.
ljk
This is a New Pattern of Biscuit Box. It
is made of Solid Nickel Silver, heavily
Plated and good for 30 years’ wear. The
glass can be removed for cleaning pur-
poses. Price, £2 10s. Other Glass Biscuit
Barrels from 16/6 to 30/-.
asii
Cut Glass and Solid Silver Trinket Box.
Makes a tasty Wedding or Birthday
Present. It is good English Out Glass, not
a scratch here and there. The price is 25/-
S^uWaysP
YOURMONEYS
WORTH m
jk
This Cabinet-size Solid Silver Photo. Frame
costs .but 12/6 ; while the Carte de- Visit is
5/-, and the Midget, plain, only 3/-. Each
of these lines aye, splendid value. If you
are not satisfied when you receive them,
you ean have your money back.
“ J.A.C.” : A Berlin paper recently asser-
ted that the Unter den Linden, in Berlin,
is the widest street in the world (about
214ft.), and that the second widest street is the
Vienna Ringstrasse, with 187ft. Now, the second
widest street in the world, at this rate, is Sturt-
st., Ballarat, Vie. (198ft.); and, as for the widest,
what about Sackville-st., Dublin? By the way,
there is in the small township of Pahiatua (Wel-
lington province, M.L.), a thoroughfare—two rows
of buildings, with an intervening desert, which,
if you try to cross it on a wet day, appears to be
five miles wide.
Of the returned N.S.W. cohentingenters
who sought re-enlistment in the outgoing gang
50 per cent, were rejected owing to heart disease
contracted during their former term of service.
Nature is, indeed, satirical. Have farm-burners
really got hearts ?
N.S. W. Discharged Prisoners Aid Society
has set up its shingle at the house in Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, where Sheridan, since hanged,
carved up Jessie Nicholls and packed her body
away in a trunk.
Stated in a recent London police-case that
the Salvarray collected the rubbish from about
1500 well-to-do houses, and sifted out great hauls of
valuable articles, from spoons to watch-chains arid
cheques. The present manager of the dust-bin
department of the Army stated that he had given
instructions to stop the looting that had formerly
been winked at, and to return valuables to the
owners when possible. But what a sordid business
it seems —this spectacle of the Church grubbing
in 1500 dirt-boxes in quest of bones and lost
property.


Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER ....
Take
REUTER’S LITTLE PILLS.
For all LIVER complaints.
Spreading 1 Tlieisr Fame.
. It is just as easy to drift into danger as to drive
into it. The progress is slower, but the end is
equally sure. It is the gradual progress of
drifting that blinds the danger. Men and
women drift into ill-health in such a way.
Something is done to relieve the first symptoms
but nothing to remove the cause. There is a
medicine that cures, it cures the cause of dis-
ease, it strikes at the foundation, and that
medicine is Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. Mr.
John Cook, a resident of Dunolly, Vic., for
forty years, gives his evidence straight, and to
toe point. “I write to inform you that I have
used your Indian Root Pills for Indigestion.
About the middle of February last I was seized
with a severe attack of Indigestion, and also
pains across the chest, which caused me much
agony, and upon making my case known I was
advised to give your pills a trial. I dad so,
bought one bottle from Mr. Kendall, the local
chemist, and commenced their usq, and before
using one bottle I found they had made a great
improvement, so I continued their use, and had
not finished the second bottle when I was sure
they had cured me. Another tiling, before
taking these pills I had no appetite, but now,
as the saying is, I can eat like a horse. I will
recommend the pills wherever I go, as I am
sure they will do to others as they have done
to me. You have my full permission to use
this letter as you think fit, as I am well known
m this district, having lived here for forty
years.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are
a perfect blood purifier, and a positive cure for
biliousness, indigestion, constipation, headaches,
sallow complexion, liver and kidney troubles,
piles, pimples, boils and blotches, and for female
ailments. Sold by chemists and storekeepers,
Is l|d per bottle, or six bottles 6s Gd. Sole
proprietors, The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.
(Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt street, Sydney.
Packed in amber bottles, and the full name
blown thereon.*
The newly-appointed N.S.W. Western
Lands Board has no less than 80,000,000 acres of
Crown lands to deal with.
Boer Commandant Scheepers has been
hanged by the British authorities—for farm-
burning among other things. Think of the
Ketchener crowd hanging anybody for farm-
burning !
With the instinct of “Sherlock Holmes”
for finding clues and following them up, it is no
ponder J. W. Holdsworth (101 Swanston-st.,
Melbourne) is Australia’s leading Private Inquiry
Agent. He investigates all intricate matters, and
makes secret inquiries of all descriptions.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Melbourne Argus writes gravely thus :
' n en tirety, the speech delivered by the Prince
or wales at the Guild Hall was in conception and ex-
pression admirable and worthy of the occasion. The
substance of it will be incorporated in British history as
a thoughtful summary of a memorable voyage.
Incorporated in British history ” is a memorable
slab of flattery. Heaven only knows how often
things like that have been said, yet the speeches
of princes and kings drop through the bottom of
history and disappear like small change dropping
into perdition. Of all the thousands of speeches
delivered by all the British kings since Egbert’s
day who remembers one that is more than a month
least of all one by a small harmless man
telling how he went round peacefully in a steamer?
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Llizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
TO CURE SORE EYES.
Apply Morris’s Imperial Eye Ointment, and
avoid intense suffering. Never be without it.
Over 50 years in use. Refuse all substitutes.
Pots, 25.; sold everywhere.
Piles and Iheir Cure.”—The pamphlet
by Albert Sharp, entitled “ Piles and the Wav to
Cure Them,” without operation, sent free, on
application to the Sydney Depot, 257 George-
street.* °
JOHN JAN
N
“THREE-STAR” WHISKEY.
Agents : J. BAR, RE JOHNSTON & CO., Loftus Street, Sydney.
A PUBLIC WARNING.
W. Martin does not ride any but a
RED BIRD BICYCLE
When you see advertisements alleging that Martin rides another make of machine don’t believe that advertiser
W. Martin—Plugger Bill—won the last Austral on his Red Bird. Don’t you think a Red Bird on
easy terms would suit you best ?
Agents throughout Australasia. Goold Bicycle Co., 64 King Street, Sydney
Hardy’s Tintara Wines
Absolutely Pure;
Adelaide:
CURRIE BTREET
A
Fully Matured;
Melbourne:
COLLINS STREET
700 Medals, etc.
Sydney:
grosvenor street
SPORTING NOTIONS.
A. feature of Monday’s test-match was the fact
that Maclaren—through the absence of Barnes—had to
give the left-hander Gunn a fair chance ; and that bowler
proved the excellence of his quality by bagging 5 for 76.
i fi < ? ommence d badly, and had there been anyone else to
fall back upon, might not have been allowed to continue.
Once again in consecutive “tests” Hill struck hard luck
by getting out on the stroke that looked like bringing
him his century. On the same day Hayward followed in
the wake of Maclaren and reached his thousand for test
matches.
• * * *
Monday saw another Australian downfall, and
play ended much in favor of the Britishers, who had 165
runs to the good and only one wicket down. This was
largely attributable to the failure of the last half-dozen
on the Australian side. Two were out for 173 on
Saturday, and, though that average fell off subsequently,
things went well to the fifth wicket, which brought 260
up—94 in excess of opposing side’s total at the same
stage. Then a rot set in, and the other six only added 61,
which means a shortage of 67 compared with the English-
men s first innings. Provided nothing extraordinary
occurs, it is a fair assumption that the Britishers will
place the third “ test ” to their credit.
• • • •
Braund notched his first century in a “ test ” on
Saturday by knocking up 103, not out. Braund shows
out as the best all-rounder on his side. Always danger-
ous with the bat, there are few, if any, more promising
bowlers, and, bar perhaps Jessop, none better in the
field. He was among the few that accumulated cen-
turies against the last Eleven that went ’Ome from this
Bide.
V ' * • * •
vr -^ l arne8 ’ knee being badly wrenched will affect
Maclaren’s team seriously, as ’tis quite possible that he
may not be up to bowling in the next “ test ” at Sydney.
An accumulation of fluid at the joint rendered the use of
splints and laying up abed for two or three days abso-
lutely necessary.
* * • •
The halt and the lame were much in evidence in
latest test-match. Prior to start, Noble, Howell, Kelly
and Gregory were more fit for hospital than cricket.
Massage treatment was brought to bear freely. Reported
that Howell and Kelly, a day before beginning, “ were fit
only to sit on chairs and read the papers and talk to each
other.” Nol le “ was walking about, but it hurt him to
do it. Then, while the match progressed, the wires told
about Noble that “ there was very little of that great
dash m his delivery that was so strong a feature of the
second test-match in Melbourne;” and about Howell
that “ his leg was so bad that he could scarcely run up to
the wicket.” The close of the second over on Saturday
saw Howell limping to the pavilion to get his maimed
underpin bandaged ; and Kelly was palpably lame all the
time. Sid Gregory’s trouble, previously put down to a
hard knock, has since been ascrilied to a strain that may
assert itself any time. Question uppermost now is how
the selection committee, knowing all this, came to include
these four ? Possibility of Noble bowling well, even
though crippled, might have justified his presence ; but
what of Howell and the strong likelihood of Gregory not
being able to see a long innings out? Up to time of
writing, Kelly’s work has demonstrated that no harm was
done in giving him a place.
• • * *
“ Maclaren’s position as an amateur in English
cricket,” writes Tins Bulletin’s London correspondent
“ is being seriously attacked by the St. James’ Gazette.’
It asserts that the crack bat is ijoing* to Hampshire as
assistant treasurer, at an absurdly large salary for such a
poaition in such a club, merely because his cricketical
abilities have made it worth while to seduce him from
Lancashire. Lord Harris points out that Lacey—paid
sec. of the Marylebone O.O.—always plays as an amateur,
and, if he, why not Mac. ‘My lud ’ says he himself had
his hotel and travelling exes paid in the Australian tour,
and he thinks it proper all amateurs should be similarly
treated. The discussion has aroused so much interest
that it is not unlikely the M.C.C. may feel compelled to
clearly define ‘ what is an amateur ? ’ ”
• • • •
Rumored again that Maclaren is to remain in
N.S.W.—as a master in a leading N.S.W. R.C. college.
It was as headmaster of King’s School, Parramatta, the
last time. No doubt Mac. would gladly stay here, if the
billet was a sufficiently tempting one, especially after the
hard knocks dealt out by’Ome papers over his appoint-
ment, at a salary, as “ assistant treasurer ” of the Hamp-
shire Club. Maclaren probably can’t understand why he
should not be allowed to follow in Dr. Grace’s steps as a
“ cash amateur.”
* * • m
“Cash”: Recent par (Bulletin, 21/12/01) re
“ piffle ” sent out by cable doesn’t quite hit the point
The fact that Maclaren has been made assistant-treasurer
of Hampshire County is of interest, as showing what
amateurism is to-day. What is an assistant-treasurership,
anyway? A paid billet with no particular duties, in-
vented to assist a man who does not fancy being paid as
a pro. ? Writer is fairly certain that Maclaren held a
similar billet in Lancashire. And he is quite certain that,
when Sam Woods once talked of leaving Somerset, Palairet
said openly that they “ couldn’t afford to lose him ; ” and
S.J.W., being already captain, was solemnly appointed
“ assistant secretary.”
• • • •
Maclaren’s luck in tossing has been remarkable,
and much ahead of any other ’Ome skipper’s. Up to
date, as captain of England against Australia, he has won
the option of going to the wickets himself, or sending his
opponents there, seven out of eight times.
* * • •
“A.C.”: N. S. Wales’ defeat of S.A. was
apparently anticipated by Adelaide people, for the gate
receipts were much below the average. S.A. team was
the weakest put out by that State for years, and even
when the chance came to put in a good junior, George
Giffen’s little brother Walter was revived. As usual, this
mediocre player was a failure. The one bright feature
of the S.A. display was Kirkwood’s 67 in the second
innings. Travers, the slow bowler, did better work than
at any previous time in his career, and his name is
mentioned as a possible member of the next team to
England. “ Mary Ann ” Noble strained his side again in
the second innings of S.A. At the time this happened he
was doing as he liked with the local batsmen. This is the
third time Noble has strained himself in inter-State
cricket, and uncharitable people are saying that he saves
himself for the bigger events. Jones bowled the biggest
rubbish ever seen in Adelaide in first-class cricket. He
seems to have lost all his old length, as well as much of
his pace. It looks as if Jones should be discarded from
the team for England, though it is understood he is a
certainty for the trip.
• • • •
“ Adelaide ” ; Duff took the wickets when Kelly
was hurt, here, which at once raised the question whether
he is competent to act in the less important matches in
England. If so, M’Kenzie would be shut out, but room
would be made for another all-round man. Charlie
Gregory is much fancied by S.A. players, and the crowd
is ready to believe him quite as good a bat as Duff, while
badly wanting to know what made Clarke formidable to
Maclaren and Co.
• • * •
Noble, as sole selector, has picked the following
N.S.W. team fonthe inter-State match against Victoria,
on SaturdayS. Gregory, 0. Gregory, Duff, Hopkins,
Clarke, Trumper, Noble, Poidevin, M‘Beth, Carter, and
Kermode, with Parquhar as emergency. What a miser-
able attempt to infuse fresh blood 1 ’Twould be easy to
choose a second team that could knock spots off this one.
A“ e . inclusion of Kermode in the revised team suggests
that the selector did it the day he was very tired. Ker-
mode is a moderate bowler who, up till a few weeks ago
played on mud wickets at Moore Park, Sydney. He
trundled well in that fourth-rate grade, but has never
done anything to justify the honor ladled onto him.
there are a score of better bowlers playing in first and
second grade who should have a show before him. Marsh
the aboriginal, is left out. Is it his color that is objected
to C His averages for two seasons and a-half in first-grade
cricket are 358'2 overs, 87 maidens, 1137 runs b 105
wickets an average of 10 83. Farquhar, who is picked
W?n e , m ? rgr K nCy ’ J? a t)e «er bat than any in the team,
barring, perhaps, Gregory. He has an average of 70 odd
for competition cricket this season. He has been
emergency several times now, but, when there’s an open-
ing, he has always had to give way to someone else no
better than himself.
* * * •
A. C. ” : Jack M'Kenzie and Carter, the latter
a promising N.S. Wales “ keeper,” are the two men from
whom the second wicketkeeper of the team for England
will almost certainly be chosen. The N.S.W. players are
strongly urging Carter’s claims, but big M'Kenzie’s ex-
perience will probably secure him the position.
* * * *
The progress of Sydney first-grade cricket :
n , I j. ol)le > Kefiy anc * Trumper in Adelaide
wrought Paddington’s downfall at the hands of Glebe
n U ji « , Lei . cllhardt ' Balmain alone at the top. Leich-
hardt-Balmain has played five competition games this
season, won them all, and yet had not a man picked for
even an inter-State match. Sydney settled Central
a lot the K° od i North Sydney shut down
f . , ? ‘O'* 451 and sent Redfern to the pavilion for 94.
-Leichhardt-Balmain has a soft snap with Burwood.
* • • *
Stated that George Lohmann owed his death
directly to cricket, having first injured his lung in a
desperate attempt at a wide catch in the long field
• * • *
Chassepot, as tipped here on 18/l/’O2, has come
off. At Warwick Farm on Saturday last he won the big
race after a hot finish with Lulworth, Undaunted third
| nd p . rd P ° ol fourth. Last three are much fancied for
b.I.G. Anniversary Handicap on Monday. Chassepot is
not entered, or he’d probably shake the bookies and other
things up severely.
* * * •
N.S.W. ownerß. Richards did well at Warwick
* arm on Saturday. His bay Middleton—Spring Blossom
&yr.-old mare Spring Rose won Steward s Mile in a canter
starting at paying price of tens. His Merton Steel went
out at slight odds on to win the 2yr.-o!d Handicap. Till
the straight was reached rank outsider Lightheart
was in front with Merton Steel last of five runners.
But M.S. laid his ears back, tucked his hind legs well
under, and got home easily by 2£ lengths. He is a brown
gelfling, game, and a stayer, by imported Dalmeny from
Cast Steel, by Metal. Dalmeny is also the sire of sterling
nag Baccarat. "
• * • •
A much-nurtured and speedy pony, with which
some Ikeys had a little to do, was let loose at Kensington
(Sydney) recently, and hungry punters rushed it
greedily, grabbing twos as if the money onlv had to be
picked up, while Mo. laid it just as freely' and smiled
berngnly the while. The good thing fairly cantered home,
much to the undoing of “books” generally, who looked
as if a thunderbolt had struck them ail; they were
paralysed for several seconds, while jubilant backers
rubbed it in thick. There was no escape ; settling had to
°n- Most bent to the inevitable and tried to look
unruffled, but the effort proved too great. Others refused
point blank to pay out. Full strength of the thing
leaked out among a few. Those working the anticipated
scoop galloped the pony to a standstill in the morning,
li 1 "} up w,th as mueh water M h e’d take, and then
settled down to garnering the guileless punters’ stuff,
inej’ naan t reckoned on such a comparatively poor field
fining up, and the nag is such a thorough good ’un that
bar being pulled completely, the jock found it impos-
sible to stop him. True bill.
* • • *
Weights for Newmarket Handicap, Australian
Cup, Oakleigh Plate and Purse, and Bond Cup were de-
clared Monday. Well-performed Trenton mare, Wakeful,
tops the list in the short events with 10.3. Of N.S.W.
nags, Caledonia, only a pound less, is flattered in a
manner that perhaps doesn’t please his stable connections
too well. Sir Leonard’s 9.8 brought about his elimination
almost immediately ; ’tis a thumping burden to give a
* bex haB 9 -4» and is well-favored. The
Watchdog, with 9.7, gets better treatment than has been
his portion in Sydney of late, but he’ll need to be at top
t? Coralie’s 8.8 won’t stop her if she lines up well.
If Abmgton carries 8.10 to the front he’ll surprise some
good judges. Man-o’-War (8.4) has nothing to complain
of. Insect (8.9) is heavily penalised for his recent suc-
cesses at Randwick, and Leapfrog has shown little to
justify the idea that he can succeed with 8.7 up. Juindo
has yet to prove himself up to first-class handicap
u>rm. Sir Foot (a maiden) with Bst. seems wrongly
dealt with, alongside Spring Rose (7.12). Hautain
(i.o), a smart early two-year-old, has been running
badly lately. Clochette (6.12) is a good ’un, and
a fine shaper in private. Nous (6.10) hasn’t vet
ea !u e, L , in ? tion ’ ditto Pur ser (6.11). Victoria is strong
with Wakeful, Revenue, Fortune Teller, United States
Bonnie Chiel, Debenture, Clanside, and Commander. It
is not likely that Wakeful or Revenue will be preferred to
Aurous (7.10) at the-weights if A'urous is in form. United
States is well m with 9.3, and six furlongs should suit
Bonnie Chiel (9.1) to the ground. Debenture, Clanside
and Commander must also be reckoned with. Australian
Cup allotments are headed by La Carabine’s 9.13 which
she richly merits ; but, on paper, the next nag (Cale-
donia) with 31b. less, isn’t inviting at all if the other
strips fit. Revenue (9.7) is well treated, ditto Australian
Uolours, but latter came out for some reason or other on
Monday afternoon. Dreamland,.who got away with the
mug last year, must have a chance with Bst. ; but Man-o’-
War, younger and an already stamped stayer, must be
given preference. Grasspan (8.3) is in it; ditto Rock
Gun (Sst.), also Horace (7.5) and Hoop Iron (7.9).
* * « *
A huge slump in Australian thoroughbred stock
down under” is apparent. Carbine mare Cordite
which went ’Ome in ’96, was recently sold for 35gs. at
Newmarket blood stock distribution, and about same
time following others were knocked down at figures
given : Atrocity, b.f., 2vrs., by Carnage from Hysterical
25gs. ; b.f. foal, by Patron from Springwel'l, 60gs •
Parquetry, 4yrs., by Trenton from Catherine Parr, 300 gs •
Cape Wrath, br.f., 2yrs., by Carbine from Caithness,’
l<sgs. ; Royal Hussar, 3yrs., by Carbine from Golden
Moments 145 gs. ; Amnesty (1897), by Carbine from
Amiable, 155 gs. ; The Crack (1897), by Carbine from Rat-
tlewings, 75gs. ; and Warsop, 2yrs., by Carbine from
Semolina, 160 gs.
••■ • m
“Crank”: Squeezed into the thick, heavy
atmosphere of Sydney Golden Gate A.C. on Saturday
night, and through the thick haze came the thicker voice
of referee announcing that Turner was 9 and Billy
McKell 8.8 stone. Writer swears Turner was at least a
stone heavier. Then a little boy (Turner’s brother, thev
said) came into the ring and was affectionately hugged
by Turner aforesaid, and carefully passed out again
It was Cocker Tweedie who brought this sentimental
touch from Murka, but the coves and the blokes weren’t
touched a bit, and scoffed loudly. McKell was mostly
bone and skin, with a little muscle here and there and
some places would be better if filled up. Bob Turner
alleged bantam champion, slogged often and harried some
in every round, but failed to produce any effect till
McKell twisted his foot in failing in the 11th round, and,
being utterly crippled, the thick voice of the referee was
wafted up again to the effect that “ Turner’s de winner,
gen’l’men 1 ” The most remarkable thing about the fight
was the way. the referee sweated.
• • • •
Champion middle-weight bruiser, Snowy Stur-
geon, had another victim served up to him at Sydney
Gaiety A.C. last week. One or two stiff thumps and
Dawson thudded on the boards. Marvellous how fist-
fight followers stand this sort of thing. Dawson quaked
visibly while preliminaries were being fixed, and quaked
speakingly ever after shaping. Snowy went to work as
if engaged in a gym. spar, and got home pretty well
when and how he wanted to. A left jab on the point
completed the job inside 4|min. of actual work. Re-
ported that Sturgeon is going ’Ome, under the fatherly
aegis of a prominent Sydney shop Mo., to have a tilt at
the best in Kngland and America. If the project
materialises Snowy will give them all the fight they want,
but will have to change his methods, otherwise the
financing syndicate will be broke.
* » * *
“ Fools and their money ! ” A week or two
ago Broken Hill miner Mat Mitohie licked the Irish-
Cockney pug, Denny Moloney, conclusively, at Sydney
Golden Gate. Now, somebody has posted a hundred for
Moloney against Mitchie again. Were flukes barred odds
of 6 to 1 wouldn’t tempt any judge who looked at the
previous rough up; it was nothing else. Mitchie is
strong, chockful of grit, and clever. Moloney is every
fraction as plucky, but isn’t as strong, nor nearly so
clever. On this, picking the winner is child’s play.
* * * *
Bald, ancient-looking pug. Jim Barron, “ put
em up” with “Cocker” Tweedie at the Gaiety A.O.
1 ) on Monday' night for the State lightweight
raa,,e a £° ofl showing against youth and
ability till nature would stand no more. Jim was down
twice in the fifth round, but nearly' evened up things by
dealing “Cocker” a couple of beauties on the jaw that
sent him groggy once. Then Barron petered out, and in
the seventh round, beyond occasional flashes of vigor
rweedie was uppermost. Barron flopped three times—
knocked down once, but falling mostly through exhaus-
.nAwhereffi,on the “ wi P e ” was elevated. Tweedie
got the title with the best part of a fairly good “gate”
for a win wherein there wasn’t much to rave over.
• <*■ * „
• * * ® c< ? rch ” Alertness of Melbourne bike officials
is truly harrowing. After occurrences in connection with
the last, Anstra l a disqualified rider started in two races
at the Druids’ Sports, and was only discovered when some
outsider drew attention to him.
* * ♦ *
T other day Sydney Bike League rider, P.
Ahsoff, had a cut at C. Orr’s road record (lOh. 38m V-
Goulburn to Sydney. He left at 7.10 a.m., reached OamrT-
belltown at 2.47 (2min. outside Orr’s time), and made
Sydney at 5.38 p.m.—lOmin. better than the previous
best. Roads were so bad that Alisoff had to dismount
and walk often. ,
* * • *
M.L. s policeman-athlete, Arthur Skinner, made
things fairly buzz at Caledonian Sports in Auckland, New
Year s Day Using one hand only, he hurled the wooden-
handled 161 b. hammer 102 ft.—a fresh Australian best, and
only an inch behind the world’s record. He also did
an exhibition throw of 167 ft., which, if done under
accepted conditions, constitutes a best on record for pros.
A 561 b. weight was cast from a 7ft. square (without follow)
40ft. sm.—truly a remarkable feat. Irish-American
a ™ at ®Y- r ’ Fianagan held the world’s best at this game-
36ft. 9|in. T. 1. Kiely s world’s figures (40ft. 3in.), with
unlimited run and follow, are also eclipsed. Same man
tossed the caber 47ft., and subsequently appropriated the
wrestling championship. A champion, truly, from top
hair to toe-nails. r
* * • •
At the last Dunedin (M.L.) kilt and haggis
sports shtvoo, L. M‘Kay won the hop, step and iump
purse with 43ft. lOJjin. In an exhibition effort
ne put up 44rt. 10in. *
* * * *
Second round N.S.W. Bowling Association’s
Pennant tourney finished Saturday, when Rand-
wick, Manly, Annandale and Victoria Park (last for
years past always threatened danger and looked sure
winners of the flag at times) dropped out completely.
Old rivals Balmain and City, who for long had turn arid
turn about at hoisting the pennant, met, and City con-
quered, after a hot tussle, by 6 points only. St. George
club s win by 4i over Gladstone Park previous week gave
chance against Ranclwick, but they only
pulled the game out of the fire by 4. Redfern’s defeat of
Ashfield by 119 to 96 suggests that the former has picked
up much power since last season. Strangely enough
draws for Pennant and B matches brought Waver lev’s’
two teams against Manly’s reps. ; and Waverley’s suc-
fwao 1 " °. th ’ ttl r ng the Principal match by no less
won 4 h P oln ! s ’ Leonards accounted for Annandale
by 20, but only through effecting a fine pull up in the
finishing stages. Spite of Sydney’s young>est club (St
George) running away from Gladstone Park in the first
round, latter body accumulated 20 more than Chatswood
m the second.
* * . .
Another possible world’s champion revealed
himself at Sydney Western Suburbs Swimming Gala at
Morts Dock, on Saturday, in person of C. M‘Gregor. The
whole 136yds. crack sprinter Craig couldn’t get more
than a yard in front, and finished less, amid wild excite-
ment. Same day saw Dick Cavill improved sufficiently
to cover 100yds. in 1.1 2-ssec., which places him second to
record 10°1 sth° behind Derbyshire’s world’s
• • . *
Amateur Sculls Handicap, at Drummoyne and
Hunter s Hill regatta, Saturday, was won by sheer grit
on the part of little Australasian champion, J. J. Dalev
Tas. crack, J. Burke, competed, with lOsec. start. After
gaining some, Daley’s lack of condition told, and the end
of a mile saw him a length behind. But he struggled on
and, with a desperate effort, pipped Burke by half-a-
length. Burke is in Sydney, learning from Chris Neilsen
His stroke is long and swinging, but his grip and finish
are faulty, and his leg-work wants remedying—he slides
too long. ‘
* * * •
About the last sport the little Jap might be
expected to excel in is rowing". Yet a crew from their
battleship Mikasa beat one from H.M.S. Hazard when the
two lately found themselves in port together.
* * m m
Something like a record in homing pigeon flying
was put up in Maoriland lately, when, of 33 birds liberated
at Kaitoke, 30 reached Timaru, distance 316 miles, in 73-
hours. 3
* * * *
The Englishmen’s chance of winning another
one or more of the test matches depends largely on
Lilley. He was a sick man when they got so badly beaten
at Melbourne. Both Duff and Armstrong were missed
by Lilley before they got set, and his two batting
attempts showed him to be a lot below par. With the
wicketkeeper in his best form, the three B. bowlers in their
best form, and Gunn making himself more useful than he has
been as yet, the visitors would give the Australians a shak-
ing, if they didn’t actually take the third trick. But the
weakness of their emergency bowlers and their disposition
to lose heart if Maclaren and Hayward fail to open the
innings promisingly are points that nobody can deny.
As compared with the Australians the Britishers are no
good in time of trouble. They have fewer resources for
making a recovery. The betting looks to be 5 to i
against them before the start, and 3 to 1 if they don’t
hold their own at the end of the first three hours’ play,
whichever side may win the toss. A lot of people who
ought to know—old Australian Eleveners among them—
declare that Maclaren holds winning cards, but the
oracular declarations of experts are rarely correct when
the general opinion of the shilling crowd is opposed to
them. In cricket, as in rowing results, the outside
experts are always looking for reasons why the best team
ought not to have won.


ENGLISH
HALL-MARK
Stamped on all our Silverware.
We are Direct Importers , and receive NEW
GOODS by every Mail Steamer.
We sell a Silver Hall-Marked Boot
Button-Hook, 6\ inches long, for . .
2/6
The modern J|rt Jewellery Co.,
187 PITT-ST., SYDNEY (next Shadier's Cafe).
SOLID
SILVER
HALL
MARKED
FLOWER
STANDS,
17/6
each.
HALF SIZE
The Best Road Wheel
is the Bicycle that has proved by actual work that
it is reliable and easy' running. . . .
ljkl
Is daily ridden in every part of Australasia. Call and see our New Models, and get a Catalogue.
WESTRALIAN BRANCHES at PERTH and KM-GOORLIE.
DEPOTS: Sydney, Melbourne. Adelaide, Brisbane, Wellington.
f Agents In every
\ Town . . .
jk
PIKE BEOS.
Brisbane. Townsville. London.
.. . RENOWNED SPECIALITIES .. .
SUPERIOR READY TO WEAR
INDIAN TROPICAL CLOTHING.
Exceptionally well cut and highly tailor-finished.
Made to our Special Order and Measurements in India.
FINEST ASSAM SILK
COAT and TROUSERS
COATS—Single, D.-8., and Norfolk shapes.
42/-
INDIAN TWILL FLAX
COAT and TROUSERS
17/6
COATS—Single, D.-8., Norfolk and Patrol shapes.
A Perfect Fit ensured by customers sending Height, Chest, Waist and Inside
Leg Measurements.
Write for New Illustrated Catalogue (Commonwealth issue) and Samples.
X
In Its Own Class
The quality of our
goods stands in a class
of its own—the very
highest. Low grade
materials are unknown
in our Factory.
l
Cakes, Pastry,
Jellies and
= Art =
Confectionery
Send for * Catalogue.
Special terms to Tennis
Clubs, etc., and for - - -
quantities.
THE N.S.W. FRESH FOOD Sc ICE CO. Ltd., Sydney
Melbourne Age is very wrath with the Demo-
cratic Rep. Higgins for casting “an unmerited
stigma on Australian loyalty and public spirit by
referring to ‘ volunteers at ss. a day.’ ” Shocking !
but still it is open to David Syme and other repre-
sentatives of Australian “ public spirit ” to refute
the base insinuation by organising a contingent
that will fight at 2s. day, or eighteenpenoC. A
stigma that is so easily removed ought to be
shifted immediately. By way of helping the
process, The Bulletin begs to make a definite
offer. If the Federal Government will send away
another 10,000 men (which will make the Austra-
lian contingent about equal, considering the
respoetive populations, to that of Britain); and
the men will accept 2s. 6d. a day and rations
(which is more than the British soldier or any
other regular soldier outside Australia gets), so
that they will really be showing their enthusiasm
and making some slight sacrifice for the Empire; and
the Federal'Government will levy a new income-
tax of 6d. in the £ to pay the bill instead of
leaving it to posterity, in order that the Jingoes
who stay at home may also make some slight
sacrifice for the empire. The Bulletin will give
ihat contingent its support, and pay its share of
the war tax. Will any Jingo, even the wildest
Jingo, do as much \ don't all speak at once !
Premier Barton says this country is ready to
send more troops, and to pay for them if necessary.
A favorable opportunity here presents itself.
Premier Barton’s “slim” policy has met its
reward ; and we see the resolutions of sympathy
with Britain—passed by the House of Representa-
tives only—accepted by the world as passed by the
Commonwealth Parliament. It is time the Senate
protested against this usurpation of its rights
and authority. When the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment speaks for Australia as a nation, the Senate
has as much right to be consulted as has the House
of Representatives. It equally represents the
people. The House of Representatives has no
business to arrogate to itself the authority of
Parliament ; and well Barton knows it.
Dear Bulletin. —Your “Plain English ” re the
SINCOCKtAN statement that N.S.W. has a larger
percentage of convicted criminals than Vic. made
no allusion to the inefficiency of the police service
in Marvellous Melbourne. Every suburb has a
recent record of highway robbery which left the
police quite in the dark as to the identity of its
perpetrators. The two or three masked men who
stuck-up a tram-car are still rejoicing at large.
The ease of the jockey who was robbed on the
Yarra bank and thrown into the river last
Caulfield Guineas night has dropped out of public
memory. Mere thefts from the back-yards and
gardens of private houses, committed by bands
of right-o’-way prowlers are so frequent that
the police scarcely trouble to take down the
particulars, and rarely report them to the press.
Melbourne is the paradise of Bill Sykes and
the Artful Dodger, owing to those right-o’-ways,
formerly a necessity in all parts of the unsewered
city, and still serving their old pestilential purpose
in many outlying districts. This fact is generally
overlooked by people who admit Melbourne to be
the easiest of places for a notorious embezzler to
get away from, or escape conviction in if he
prefers to stand his ground. Once more the
question—why have Melbourne Trinity College
councillors and the Vic. Crown Law Department
done nothing to bring to a trial the gentleman
charged with having got away with £3OOO of the
Trin. Col. funds? And why have the “respect-
able” Melbourne journals aided, by their silence,
the hush-it-up conspiracy ?— Collins Street.
♦
The average Australian may be knocked
prostrate by fierce test-match problems, aided and
abetted by perspiration, dust, flies, George Reid
and the Federal tariff. But he (the a. A.) is
never worried for a moment by any problem as to
which is the best remedy for restoring him to his
normal state of cheerfulness. Experience has
taught him to promptly resort to D.C.L. when-
ever a reviver is necessary. To be denied access
to that deleetable beverage. The Whisky of the
Wise, is about the worst kind of calamity which
can strike one in this great thirst-stricken
country.*
In Heavy Solid Gold (14ct.)
Cases, any design, £A 6s.
“Fx & R” Watches
£6 6s
The movements are on the Lever principle.
They have Brequet overtoil balance springs.
They are jewelled in 10 holes.
They have compensated and adjusted balances.
They have jewel ruby rollers.
They are made in every style ol case.
They are stem-winders.
They have enamel dials.
These watches go with profound accuracy, stand hard riding and knocking
about, and will wear a lifetime.
We keep them in order for two years (breakages exoepted), and guarantee
them for 15 years.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
Vice- Regal Jewellery 23 Hunter St. f Sydney
By the death, at Woollahra (Sydney), of
Mr. P. J. Holdsworth, last Sunday night, Aus-
tralia lost one of its minor poets and a prose- writer
of some grace. Originally a civil servant, Mr.
Holdsworth. after retiring on a pension, devoted
himself to writing, and was a frequent contributor
to various Sydney papers.
Just as The Bulletin goes to press it is
alleged, by cable, that Chamberlain has struck the
weary and over-laden Seddon for another (the
ninth) contingent of 1000 men —this when ne
hadn’t quite finished getting the eighth contin-
gent away. Maoriland has already sent away, in
proportion to population, more troops than Britain
has; but an impression is evidently gaining ground
at the other end that Richard of Kumara is a
simple-minded seeker after a dukedom, and Cham-
berlain is running him for all he is worth. It
isn’t every day that so huge and fresh a victim
falls into the hands of the three-card man.
Seddon is now toiling harder to conquer South
Africa for Britain than Britain is to conquer South
Africa for itself.
It was what Mr. Mantalini might call
“demnition hot,” and the dinner was uneat-
able. Macgillycuddy, purple-faced, exasperated,
sprawled at the head of tne table; Mrs. Mac.,
purple-faced and snappy, sprawled at the foot;
and six little purple-faced, peevish Macs., in
various stages of undress, sprawled round it. The
only things that displayed any energy were the
flies —especially 11 of them that were trying to
wade through the oily slush that bore a distant
resemblance to butter. The meat had gone “off,”
the milk was sour, the blanc-mange was white
mud, and the water more than luke warm. Here
was all the material for a first-rate row, which
duly arrived. And all because Mac. had not
bought that 38s. 6d. lee Chest from McLean Bros,
and Rigg, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.*
Splendid sample of human intelligence
from Australian Star (Sydney) of 20/1/’O2 :
Whatever else the pro-Boers may be deficient in, they
were not behind the door when imagination, or the gift
of making highly-imaginative statements, was served out.
The sympathisers in England and the Continent with
that holy old person, Paul Kruger, have been thrilled and
horrified' by the stories of Kitchener’s concentration
camps, the fearful barbarities practised by Tommy Atkins
upon defenceless women and children, arid the awful,
unheard-of mortality in those camps. And these state-
ments sound quite impressive until subjected to the tests
of common sense and of simple arithmetic. . . . And
here the vulgar multiplication table, which has abso-
lutely no grain of imagination, comes in. The total
population of the camps for December last was 117,017.
The total deaths have been 2380, or TWO PER CENT. 1
The population was composed as follows
Children .. ..' .. .. 56,424
Women .. .. .. .. 42,905
Men .. .. .. .. 17,688
Total 117,017
And it is only reasonable to assume that among the
seventeen thousand odd men was a large majority incap-
able of bearing arms, either through ill-health or old age.
The deaths (1767) among the children represent 3.1 per
cent.—slightly less than Sydney’s figures for 1900. These
are facts. The cheerful pro-Boer will, despite them, no
doubt continue cheerfully to lie.
This incredible being apparently doesn’t know
the difference between 3 and a fraction per cent.
per annum and the same per month, which
pans out at 37 per cent, per annum —the real mor-
tality among the children in the concentration
camps as shown by his own figures. And this
sort of person is allowed to give instruction to
the public in the editorial columns of a leading
metropolitan paper!
An excited correspondent to one of the
daily papers:
The spectacle of five members of oar Commonwealth
Parliament refusing to Join in a sympathetic message to
the land that gave them liberty is enough to make the
early colonists (the Britishers who made the country fit
for foreigners to live in) turn In their graves.
But the British authority of those days took a pre-
caution against any “ turning ” by burying many
of those early settlers in their chains.
“ SHARPSHOOTING
Pot* Snort and War”
mnm
By W. W. GREENER.
Hits the Mark!
1/- NETT.
If you wish to know how to guard the
Empire—if you are one of those who will
rally round the old flag—read this book.
It teaches all about Rifles and Rifle
Shooting, how to aim and make allowance,
&c., and it contains chapters on Ranges
and Rifle Clubs, with a history of the part
played by the Armed Civilian in the past.
The Best Shilling's Worth ever Published l
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations for 1/- nett.
Of all Booksellers, orC.W. Buckland, Agent
for W. W. Greener, 317 Collins St.MELB.
the person who is not a millionaire, there t«
' ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 60 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Pronrietor • « GKO. W. ELLIS.
By Special
jkl
Appointment.
G. H. SMITH and SON,
TPOPICAL HELMET
with special air-space,
in white drill, dec. and,
in all colors in felt.
10/6 and 12/6
Hat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers,
302 George-st. Sydney
Sombrero Soft Felt Hats,
All Shades and Sizes.
Soft Felt Hombergs.
In all Sizes and Colors.
Straw Hats. Stetson Hats.
Polo Caps, Military and Navai,
Caps, Livery Hats, Clerical Silk
Hats, Etc., Made to Order
the
PUNLOP^
WELCH
is the.
Hardest to wear out
and the Easiest
to repair.
jkl
jkl
/
Of J 4
%
%
A
e ty,
0/
V/
jkl
*O.
*4
o 9
*
<BL
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Australasia, Limited,
150 Glarence-st., Sydney.
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane,
and Obrletohureh, N.Z.


For that Spot l
The only guaranteed
Hair Restorer.
& S--
apilla
USE
Hal
a
¥Toruc
ISI 0 D HYir T R y P °^pL e ®P en * P° u " ds >n experimenting with so-called
, -i—iS’s.isz.atsts
harrTo n baTd r pSf&c. ISplaCed ° n the market for restorin & the
jkl
Obtainable from G. Swift, 292, Collins-st., Melbourne
'bet. price 3/- post 3/9, full course, 6 bot. post 19/2.
The proprietor of Capilla Hair Tonic is prepared
i w r r. at ■,'V 0l , 1 , fr . ec ° f c ; har K e > .l' ust to convince you
that Capilla Hair Tonic Will actually restore your
hair to all its old-time vigor. Could you wish
for any stronger guarantee than that ? Testimon-
ials and A Treatise on the Hair” posted free to
any address on receipt of post card or letter.
Capilla Hair Tonic is obtainable at all chemists &
storekeepers 2/6 per bottle ; or by post 3/2 • full
course l//2from the Proprietor, W. RICHARDS
14 Imperial Arcade, Sydney.
Take No Substitute.
CHARLES READ & CO.,
3 Doors from
Strand Arcade.
Camden Buildings, 420 George St., Sydney.
Write for 80-page Illustrated Catalogue—Post Free.
A
SAVING
OF
2 5
PER
CENT.
Charles Read & Co.
Diamond Marquise Ring
If you want a.
Good, well-made
Ring, set with
Choice Gems,
we can fit you
up from our
Stock, or make
any Design you
like.
Charles Read & Co.
5-Stone Half-Hoop Diamond
Ring, from £5 to £4O.
A
SAVING
OF
25
PER
CENT.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL, you enjoy your lunch
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAT.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAT.
Single Room, with Full Board, Bs. per
day, or £2 2s. per week.
TERMS. —The convenient
system of paying for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
When you come to Roberts' Hotel
Dining Rooms ; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
"well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.3 o—from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
yk&brc away &n Extra ftir cf Trousers to every fiirehascr ofcgur
jkl
jkl
I
jkl
In Blue and Coloured Serges .
The splendid value of these Suits has
made us famous. “Justly Famous!"
you will say when you try one.
jkljk
LohdonTailoring Depot
F.S.Heyers, Manager. ® M
Opposite Post Office. Bourke St. Melb.
HEALTH, STBENCTH. HAPPINESS
HEALTH
Few recognise the BLISS of being in PERFECT
HEALTH, until SUDDENLY certain symptoms are
noticed, slight at first, but gradually RECURRING,
causing annoyance and SUFFERING, the individual
being forced to admit he is unwell, and finally compelled to acknowledge that PERFECT
HEALTH is a PRECIOUS BOON.
STRENGTH
are PRICELESS to him.
What a blow to a man who discovers he is LOSING
his STRENGTH and VIGOR, and THAT perhaps al
a period when he most NEEDS ALL his physical
and menial Capabilities to battle through life. The\
He must by every means endeavor to REGAIN TH EM.
HAPPINESS
Does happiness consist in Wealth? No. Who can
be happy without HEALTH and STRENGTH?
Wealth materially assists the endurance of suffering
...... . .. .„ but PERFECT HEALTH, STRENGTH and VIGOR
should be the natural inheritance of EACH individual, and are invaluable gifts, tending to a
baTW existence and long life, THE HEALTHY, STRONG MAN CAN contend, and SUCCESS-
FULLY, with the billows of life. BUT HOW CAN THE WEAKLY AND SICKLY?
Health, Strength and Happiness
can ho ALL REGAINED.
If constant study, combined
~ . ~ , , ~, „ with intelligence and a
thorough practical knowledge of the many ailments to which the human suhiect is a victim THEN I SHOULD
be able to achieve that result AFTER THIRTY YEARS' PRACTICE, enabling me to bring to hear unlimited
and VARIED EXPERIENCE in all ACUTE and CHRONIC CASES of NERVOUS EXHAUSTION CHEST
SKIN and SPECIAL DISEASES OF MEN AND WOMEN. PERFECT SYSTEM OF ACCURATE DIAGNOSIS
AND TREATMENT BY MAIL FOR COUNTRY PATIENTS A SPECIAL FEATURE diagnosis
Dr. WATSON’S Fee is Strictly Moderate. He recognises the fact that the Public is
prepared to pay a Reasonable Fee for Assured Skill in the treatment of Complaints of
whatever character.
Consultations from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Daily. ABSOLUTELY FREE.
A “ GUIDE TO DIAGNOSIS X,” Posted Free, 1/-
DR. H. S. WATSO
(Please Mention
This Paper.)
137 ELIZABETH ST., HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
tt
ON OUR SLECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
GENTS WANTED in EVERY TOWN to REPRE-
SENT US. Liberal Commission.
Davies Franklin Cycle Co., Baliarat, Victoria.
PSe
a
%
Those
, suffering
' from weah
and sore eyes,
and blight, should
use —.
SINGLETON’S OINTMENT
NlVer Fails. Restores Eyelashes.
ALL CHEMISTS.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s CrpbrocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints it., MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons ara
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n?brocatioi).
Absolutely Unique in Quality..
& Express
CIGARETTES
(Virginia Grade)
No. 555
mm.
mm
wemm
iiPiiiiiili up s, '■
b mm
No. 999
Of Most High-CSass Tobacconists and Stores.
If unobtainable locally, write to
M. RIJTTY & Co., 68 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO., 44 Worship Street, London, England.
[6—ll—23]
VINOLIA SOAP
FOR DELICATE, SENSITIVE SKINS.
FA CTS |,|„|| fc
VINOLIA SOAP
IN FIVE KINDS. SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Vinolia Cream
.. FOR ..
HCZEMA, ITCHING FAGE SPOTS, Eto.
Editor Baby reports:
“An c'inollient antiseptic cream. For acne
spots on the face, and particularly for
eczema, it is undoubtedly an efficacious
remedy, frequently healing eruptions and
removing pimples in a few days. It relieves
itching as if by magic.”
FOUR SIZES.
Vinolia Powder
.. FOR ..
REDNESS, ROUGHNESS, TOILET, Etc.
Editor Lady’s Pictorial reports :
Vinolia Powder is a very soothing pre-
paration, superseding the old toilet powders,
which are apt to cause acne by blocking up
the pores of the skin."
White, Pink, & Cream Tints.
*Os=JN FOUR SIZES.
ISgjggp
ROS^S
IPPI>
Effective Cur
'Bucht Inflamed Emilios
Weak Eyes Dimness E T . e
mxm
531 GEORGE ST
.SYDNEY.
\ESTAIUJHCP 1838
REGP. LABEL.
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
. . FOB . .
ALL EYE COMPLALNTS
— arising from any eause whatever.
ASK FOR
ROSE’S.
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE for Sandy Blight, Granulations, Bunged Eyes,
Dimness of Sight, Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes caused by
Dust, Sun-Glare, Overwork, &c., Swelling Blight resulting from stings
of flies and insects.
Used with equal success on the Eyes of Cattle, Sheep, Poultry, &c.
Largely used by Rifle-Shooters and Literary Men.
Testimonials from leading Commercial and Professional Men throughout Australia.
Sole Proprietor . . .
H. A. ROSE,
Dispensing
Chemist,
531 George St., Sydney
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers. US' Beware of Imitations.
Zhe JYiosi Refreshing 2)rink in JTusiraiia.
TSERRAT
Lime-Fruit Juice
ai>6 Cordials . . .
(TRADE MARK)
The lANCET says : —We
Counsel the public to drink
Dime-Fruit Juice whenever and
wherever they list. It is a far
more wholesome drink than
any form of Alcohol ”
“ M nts rrat” Lime-Fruit Juice, either with water or aerated water, is a
del ghtful thirst quencher.
Sole Consignees EVANS, LGSCHER & WEBB, LONDON.
EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
Agents:—Elliott Bros., Ltd., J. Connell & Co., Sydney; D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.


“ 2nd Mounted Infantry ” to The Bctixe-
TtN concerning the barbarous Boer: —
1 was one of 20 who fell into the hands of Kruitzinger’s
commando. They gave us half of what they had in the
Way of tucker, water, tobacco, &c. The prisoners in our
own hands at different times were decent fellows, and
Could easily be taken for typical Western drovers. Plenty
pf men in the fighting Australian corps never fired a shot
in anger, but the rifle hung up in the ancestral hall will
probably tell for years of bloodthirsty deeds and hair-
raising bayonet charges.
From a 17-year-old N.S.W public school-
boy’s exercise
They were a hedes sight. Some had their ribs armes
and faeses, others were dorbed with red and yellow oko
and all were smied with gresce. As the boat caihe on
they branghed their spains, uttered savged, and worked
themselves into a steeit of furey. It was then that Sturt
notsed with dismay that a sand bag ran far out into the
stream. Along the blacks in a dence body rushed with
Shouts of trimfe.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEC
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
puress your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen,, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
niay be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don # ’t say perhaps ; but I WILL.. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/lsd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
“ I’ll Try It"
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (undet cover)
1 to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOUS AGENTS.
&
lk\p
The Result.
CRAIG &. AITKEN. N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
itouse, 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
TCU”J3!3E3i ———^ m&tL.
SPOONERS
SPOONERS
Mm*.
f 4
*
IWTtHT LEATHER BOOTS
GLAZED lUOS M
'frifiWi *•*»•** *••>*
u ***«»«
. . -T» •• •«•*•• »** •*♦»'««*»**
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
i
KODAK Ltd.,
DAK
OCKET
y\vpoy{
Photography is readily mastered by
anyone in a few minutes.
No Dark Room is needed for changing the
Films of a KODAK, they are
LOADED & UNLOADED IN DAYLICHT.
Kodaks all prices from 6s. to £8 18s.
To be obtained of all photographic Dealers.
Send for Price List, and mention this
paper.
The Block, 284 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Free Lessons daily at 3 p.m, at above address.
jkl
PLAIN HOME TALK.
embracing
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1200 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with ihe information embraced
in its covers. The new 1901 edition just arrived. . ,
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted to any address for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-marie for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic, Is 6d, post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, is 6d
posted. Carlisle's Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Ooates), Is 6d posted.
Chevassk’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, oyer 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G W Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
. Balzac’s Droll Stories, Is 3d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is Bd.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather hound, my price, 15s post paid.
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth hound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Pa, Ma and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
I 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
I Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
I Metal Working, Brazing, etc., Is 3d.
Send for my Illustrated Big Book
Catalogue-post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st, Sydney.
~r>v. Clarkson’s Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence. ,
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Or. Clarkson’s He-Invigorator
brimrs the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
Vlg °To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, D.ys-
nentic Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general c p'^P s T ®
harts the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-IN VIGORA TOR , .
will brine- happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful,
will ormg Ft THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
V
CALL OR WRITE—
OWL
CUT
RATE
DKXJG- STORE
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
THE
FREEMAN & WALLACE
This Is the only Medical
Institute in Australia with
a bona fide capital that
stands behind guarantees
as evidence of faithful per-
formance of all contracts.
Electro-Medical apd
Sorgical IpStitQtc.-^
IN AN AGE
of practitioners in the healinp art prefer to remain in the conventional p s which
SffiSi^^ssss^-sfW - *
ft
0
1
mm
: ■
EXPERTS FREEMAN AND WALLACE,
The Specialists who conduct the largest practice in Australasia.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
No one
person
should hesitate to consult us, as consultations either by l otter- or In
are given FREE OF CHARGE, and Strictest Privacy is always assured.
OUR COMMONWEALTH POCKET DIARY.
Every Farmer, Miner, Mariner, Station-hand, Book-keeper, and other Toilers shouid send for a copy of this
Useful Memorandum Book. POST FREE ON APPLICATION ALL COLONIES.
400-PAGE MEDICAL WORK (Illustrated, containing 80 Engravings, Many Usefuljjgggg 18 *
Hints on Sick Room, Accidents and Emergency) Price 6d (POST I REE) ON AI PLlOAiiu
<SASP€CIRLITI€S :
Heart, Kidney, Liver Affections,
Nerve and Brain Complications.
Gravel, Bladder and Spinal Affections.
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Epilepsy, Gout.
Rupture and Piles Gured without Operation.
Blood and Skin Disaases.
II
ace
& A?
:**. :-j
mm mm
:
icm
'“MEDICAL
i I
el£
S»ff*ll
S ; IMMt
M||ig
aw
as^s
*Sp
*-
-• T
/■ .
. Mi isiliii
JC\ ■ . t
■PI f§t
Pi
M __
_ ______
WHY WE ADVERTISE!
Because Advertising is the legitimate means vouchsafed to enlighten people,
to acquaint each other with their avocations and wants. If a man has a
, . , ,• pvnpnded larire sums of money in studying that Speciality and in
Speciality, and has devoted years of his 1 treat f no . it would be absurd for him not to announce
purchasing the necessary appliances, t o w 1 have n 0 apology to offer for informing the world through
the.fact, and disseminate the know. le “fe e can affol P d who need our help. Therefore
this advertisement and otherwise of the m q{ f medical advisers, our method of treatment
however opposed to your own I^^ n ? el gessful and this is verified by the thousands of testimonials received from
may be, the fact still remains that itis succe , a tice W e only claim to have utilised in a common-sense
grateful patients. We make no secret of our “ode.m q{ sceptical friends and
way the result of scientific research and toi g P reme mber if you allow the disease to run not in your system, you
je * lo £or y ° Ur fUtUre PibifUl COnditl ° n -
are guilty o 1 Certificates of Qualification and Registration by Government
of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Great Britain
aidlmerioa Open to Inspection hy Dr. Wallace, our Fhy„c,au-,u ; Ch,ef.
uate Consulting ( Me.bo e.
home treatment.
If VOU live out of town and cannot visit us, this need not deprive
vou of the benefits of our wonderful treatment, because in the new
evstem ol combining nieMneSSSTSSSertnfEmefure' S°»Pt»r away tlial a per*
sas.sff.fs~s;
wKSsas** to death* Wes*
i „ nf AyTckrlininP • who AT
DO NOT BE UKUbtatu iw - . ,
, , ■ „e„f o „,] o ™ in the field of Medicine, who arrogate to themselves
„ hen there are so many quacks andimpudentl d ® r » f whiph they are profoundly ignorant, and who have
the monstrosity of giving counsel and advrce m 8 ° ot be t o o careful whom they consult. Although
nothing to recommend them but their audacity;• s«“fie*B cannoi THE FREEMAN AND WALLACE
liberty of INSTITUTE patients may feel assured that they shall receive the advice
E 1^ JTR fiDed bfsfiLiirskln and education, the result of special study Our reputation and unparalleled
of those fitted by supei succeS3 as Specialists entitle us to your con (if
11 cHiQ eauccuiuu, one r __
success as Specialists entitle us to your confidence.
Medicines forwarded to all parts of the World-
■FßEE FROM OBSERVATION.
CONTENTS
Elizabeth# BatbGrstSts,Sydi)sy
«•.8.-«U«EHBI*HDERB^ ”w« conned wI.H the .nst.tu.d.
Cor.
A


CALVERTS
20 per cent.
CARBOLIC
SOAP
Cures and prevents Insect
and Mosquito bites.
The strongest Carbolic Toilet Soap.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
V
» t do not ask yon to spend
money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Pita. Epilepsy, St. Vitus’
Dance, etc. All I ask of you
1b to SEND for a FREE
Bottle and to try it I abide
by the result. A safe remedy—
approved by the Medical
Profession.
H. G. ROOT, 28,Endslelgh
Gardens, London. N.W.
F eder al
Suits
Busin
ness
In
All-Wool
Colonial
or
Imported
T weed,
Navy
_ Serge,
Blue or
Black
Vicuna
Your monej
back if not
satisfied
kj
Well-Cut
and
Trimmed,
Properly
Tailored
and
Thor-
oughly
Depend-
able
Patterns
and Self-
Measure-
ment Forms
postedfrso
To Measure ~
Extra Pair of TROUSERS
GIVEN WITH EVERY SUIT
40f°
Great Value! Our Famous Ready-Made
Federal Sac Suit
In Good Colonial or Imported Tweeds
all-wool Navy Serge or Black Vicuna.
Any size from 3
to 7, Special Tailor
20/-
made,fitted with Italian
Cloth inings
Padded Shoul-
ders, in and out
breast and ticket
pockets, etc.
Carriage paid to any address in the Australian
Commonwealth or New Zealand.
DON Cash Trading Co.
173 a to 214 Johnston Street
Collingwood, Melbourne ,
ordering give this number, No. 0123 A
HR
‘SANITAS”
An*.. ‘ ! n •mi m >
*SANITAS”
.¥ ip
n v^VVvMn
SANITAS 1 ' "SAN ITAS
OUR IWO RtCi.STfeRED TRADT MARK?.
SANITAS"
NON POISONOUS.
DOES NOT STAIN-
DISINFECTANT, ANTISEPTIC.
AND DEODORANTcombined
a peoples health is a nations wealth
The SANITAS COMPANY LiMifEO
LJ3 BETHNAL CREt N, LONDON E- [
INFECT
FLUID
I/-
lUUttl
ALSO
Powder, Soaps,
Sulphur (Fumigating) Candles,
and all kinds of Disinfectants.
“The 1.3 t of ‘Sanitas’ preparations is now so great as to com-
“prise a complete antiseptic and disinfectant armamentarium.
“The composition of most of these is based on ‘Sanitas, 1 a
“deservedly popular pleasant, and moreover active compound.”
—Lanckt. August 24th, 1895, p. 501.
“HOW TO DISINFECT.”
Book sent FREE on application.
OF ALL CHEMISTS, AND
The “SANITAS” Co., Ltd., Bethnal Green, London.
Castro’s Last Sacrament
Br ALBERT DORRINGTON.
4s 6<*.
Butter Cooler and Meat Safe.
Reduces the temperature
15 degrees by capillary
action of water.
Price - - • 5/- each
Postage, 1/- extra.
ICE-CREAM
FREEZERS
which require no labor,
15/- each;
postage, 1/6 extra.
Send for Catalogue.
Brandt Bros,
lk
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
And at 422 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Amusements.
Empire theatre, Sydney.
Castlereagh-street, next Fire Station.
Proprietors and Lessees .. .. John Fuller and Sons.
LAST WEEK of the SUCCESSFUL
ROBINSON CRUSOE PANTOMIME.
NEXT SATURDAY at 2.30 and 8, First Production at
the Empire of MULDOON’S PICNIC, the
Wittiest, Funniest Irish Comedy.
m" SPECIAL MATINEE, ANNIVERSARY DAY.
PRICES—2s., Is. and 6d. Plan at Theatre.
Her majesty’s theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee and Manasrer, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
RETURN TO SYDNEY FOR A BRIEF SEASON,
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S GRAND ITALIAN OPERA CO.
THURSDAY, JAN. 23, FEDORA.
FRIDAY, JAN. 24, LA GIOCONDA.
Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6s. ; Subscribers
Tickets, 6s. in books of 40. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
Tlri EAT R E ROYAL, BYDN E Y.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas. W. E. Bryer.
Every Evening, at 8. Matinees Every Afternoon, at 2.
4th WEEK and CONTINUED SUCCESS of
the Charming, Funny, Frolicsome, Entertaining Fairy
Pantomime, entitled
ALICE IN WONDERLAND,
tSir Prices as Usual. Plan at Elvy and Co.’s.
PAL ACE THEATRE, SYDN EL
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Charles Arnold.
EVERY EVENING. EVERY EVENING.
CHARLEB ARNOLD
(prior to his immediate return to London)
in J. M. Barrie’s Great London and New York Success,
THE PROFESSOR’S LOVE STORY.
THE NEW TARIFF—3s., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Nightly.
Plan at Paling’s. EDWIN GEACII, Manager.
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. William Anderson.
LAST 2 NIGHTS
of WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION,
GREED OF GOLD.
SATURDAY NEXT, JAN. 25, FOR A CHILD’S SAKE.
PRICES—3s. 2s and ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of Mr. Charles Holloway.
LAST 2 NIGHTS of
Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S COTERIE OF
POPULAR PLAYERS,
in the Exciting and Mirth-Provoking D.-ama, entitled
FOR THE SAKE OF A WOMAN.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, JANUARY 25,
THE EXECUTIONER’S DAUGHTER.
Popular Prices —35., 2s. and Is. (early doors 6d. extra).
Plan at Nicholson and Co’s.
RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Acting-Manager .. Thos. P. Hudson.
EVERY EVENING,
THE GREAT CHINESE-JAPANESE ATTRACTION,
A Unique and Extraordinary
Spectacular Operatic Extravaganza—
ALADDIN.
ALADDIN .. MISS NELLIE STEWART.
Produced on a Scale of Magnificence Unsurpassed in any
Part of the World.
MATINEE, SATURDAYS, at 2 p.m.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
gj$ ,JOU THEATRE > MELBOURNE.
Lessees & Managers, Messrs. J. 0. Williamson, Lee & Rial.
ESTABLISHED and PERMANENT SUCCESS of
THE WORLD’S ENTERTAINERS.
LAST NIGHTS of the PRESENT COMPANY.
Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays. Prices—3s., 2s. & Is.
JOE BROWN, Business Manager.
New Tivoli Theatre, and
New Tivoli Hotel, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
Rickards’s New Opera House and
Prince of Wales Hotel, Melbourne.
Sole Proprietor—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
Bijou Theatre, Melbourne.
Sole Lessee—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
Sub-let to Messrs. LEE and RIAL.
Gaiety Theatre, Melbourne.
Sole Lessee—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
Sub-let to Miss MAGGIE MOORE.
New Tivoli Theatre, Adelaide.
Sole Lessee—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
Gaiety theatre, m e lbo urne
Under the Direction of Maggie Moore.
EVERY EVENING. Australia’s Great Favorite,
MAGGIE MOORE
(Supported by her own Dramatic and Comedy Co.)
FRIDAY, JAN. 24, LAST NIGHT of
MEG, THE CASTAWAY.
SATURDAY, JAN. 25, the Great Comedy-Drama,
THE DAYS OF ’49.
Popular Prices—3s., 2s. and Is. J. E. MOORE, Manager.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
FIFTH WEEK FIFTH WEEK
And Continued Popularity of
THE SPAN OF LIFE.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box
Allan b ’ CHRISTIE SIMONSENSi BuB . Manager.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, George Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
EVERY EVENING,
THE GREATEST OF ALL GAIETY SUCCESSES,
SAN TOY,
The Record Success of the English Stage, interpreted by
the full strength of the Famous
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY at 2 p.m.
Prices as Usual. Box Ran at Allan’s.
COLLINS’ PATENT PROSPECTING DISH
jl
jķl
Has the following 1 advantages over
the ordinary Tin Dish—
A Flange projects round one half and
and prevents the loss of any metal—
fine or coarse.
No experience is required to use it.
A boy can pan off as easily as the most
skilful miner.
Double the amount of work can be done
in a given time than with the old dish.
Sold by all Storekeepers and Iron-
mongers throughout Australia.
If you have any difficulty in procuring
the CotLiNS’'PATENT Dish in your own
district write to—
R. JOHNSON CLAPHAM
& MORRIS, LTD.
78 Pitt-St., Sydney, and
231 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
Manufacturers under License from the
Patentee.
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPYNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLUS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLUS BROWN€.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS o!
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
M IfI were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to bs
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say .Chlorodyne. 1 never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
kl
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
KELTS and
A J'VLIA NCKS
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), {riving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street. SYDNEY.
JJOWARD & 00. repair any instrument.
Queen-street, Woollahra.
"IV/TANDOLINES, from Is. weekly. Write for'lists.
- OLL HOWARD & 00., Woollahra.
BRASS INSTRUMENTS, from Is. week. HOWARD &
PA WaalloVivo WT f f/vn
"Y/TUSICAL BOXES andORGANETTES, from Is. weekly.
HOWARD & CO., Woollahra. Write for lists.
VOU can hang yourself on our VIOLIN and BANJO
x STRINGS. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra. Try them.
A BOUT 50 tons of MUSIC ~@Td~ 2d., 3d. and fid. each.
Lists free. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
AUTOHARPS, from Is. weekly. HOWARD & CO.,
- £X Woollahra. Write for lists.
/"'J.UNS and RIFLES, 2s. 6d. weekly. Write for lists.
VJ HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
'C'LUTES, from 6d. each to 20 guineas. Cash or terms.
x HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
■\7IOLINS from Is. weekly, 1500 in stock. Write for lists.
’ HOWARD & CO., Queen-st., Woollahra.
T) AN JOS from Is. weekly, all kinds in stock. Write for
" lists. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
A CCORDIONS from Is. week, 1000 in stock. Write for
lists. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
A NGLO CONCERTINAS, 30s. to £12125., cash or terns.
Write for lists. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
rpYPEWRITERS, 2s. 6d. weekly, brief and foolscap
x HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
"PHONOGRAPHS from Is. week, also other talking
x machines. HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
-pIOYCLES from 2s. 6d. weekly. HOWARD & CO.,
x> Queen-st., Woollahra. Write for particulars.
piANOS and ORGANS, cash or terms. Write for lists
x HOWARD & CO., Woollahra.
TI OWARD & CO. extend their easy terms all over the
xx colonies. Queen-st., Woollahra.
TTOWARD & CO., largest time-payment firm in the
JX colony for everything. Queen-st., Woollahra.
YIOUINS and FITTINGS of every kind. '
HOWARD & CO.,
Queen Street, Woollahra.
At Poverty Point.
The old, lately-deceased “ first part” at Rickards’ was
a considerable Australian industry. The cost in salaries
of three first parts—Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide—
was nearly £12,000 a year, and about 80 per cent, of the
money went to feed Australian talent. True, some of the
talent wasn’t very deserving, but Rickards took the best
he could get. The first part was a go-as-they-pleased.
A performer who pleased the audience got a longer go
than the one who didn’t. Some of the more successful
turns have been transferred to the “ vaudeville ” pro-
gramme at Rickards’, but the possibility of a school of
Australian variety artists being developed from the old
Anglicised-Yankee notion of a first part is now a shattered
dream.
“ Tyred ”: Re the Lotto Cycling Track, somebody
writes to tell you that the Lotto Act doesn’t impress
bike riders, because “ the alleged 60deg. angle at which
the four experts scour round their circular track is not a
great deal steeper than some of the sharp pinches on
several Australian cycle paths.” The Lotto track, as a
matter of fact, is considerably steeper than the sharpest
pinch of any Australian cycle path, and, whereas the
racing path goes about five laps to the mile, the basket
track goes 140 laps to the mile. When the showmen rush
around in opposite directions they are doing something
which their critics have never attempted, and, although
these same critics could doubtless all do it if they wanted
to, the public will continue to regard the Lotto perform-
ance as an exciting novelty. Granting that it looks more
dangerous than it is, one would like these out-of-the-
basket critics to state exactly how dangerous it isn’t.
“ A. 8.” writes: Henry Bracy, who stage-directs for
“ La Gioconda ” at Sydney Majesty’s, is no astronomer.
The performance of the “dance of the Hours” by 16
damsels instead of 24 may be excused on the plea of
expediency, but not so an episode in the second act.
The Soprano and the Tenor make a clandestine appoint-
ment for the evening, said appointment being thought-
fully kept by the whole chorus as well as by most of the
other principals. There is a fine setting for this scene,
its beauty being heightened by a brilliant full moon, a few
degrees above the horizon, shining on the (canvas) water.
A little later, and still during the night, that full round
moon majestically sets. Now the full moon never sets
till about 6 a.m.
Robert Henry Nicholls, known as Robert Henry,
theatrical manager, having purged himself of his con-
tempt of Court over “ What Happened to Jones,” has
been released from Brisbane gaol.
The Pro-Boer has a lot to answer for. Wilson Barrett’s
“Sign of the Cross” was recently very ill-received at
Salzburg, in Austria, and the daily papers put this down
also to the pro-Boer feeling which prevails in Germany.
The Bulletin's raucous old friend, Antoinette Sterling,
is brought back to memory by the reappearance of the
Permans in Melbourne. One of the trio (brother Willie)
married Isabelle Webster, a sweet young local soprano
who supported the appalling Antoinette through her
Australian concert tour, and carried off the vocal honours
of the show wherever it went. Miss Webster scored suc-
cesses at the halls and at concerts in England. Some
returning Australians who heard her sing aboard the boat
lately say that her voice is as good as ever it was.
“ S.S.” : Re my enthusiasm over Josephine Gassman’s
velvety brown cuticle, if the proprietress of the “picks”
is not a “ roon ” of some kind, “ quad. ” or “ 0ct0.,” she
is a marvellous imitation. Saw her in Melb. Royal circle
the other night, and she was brown as a berry. It is a
surprising thing if a white American woman condescends
to masquerade as quadroon, octoroon, or any fraction of
a colored sister, but there is certainly a difference of
opinion abroad as to Josephine’s natural hue. Will some-
body appoint me a Royal Commission to take evidence ?
Is Josephine a white woman who occasionally tints her-
self brown, or a brown woman who occasionally tints her-
self white?
Adelaide’s sudden attack of circuses (Fitzgerald’s under
canvas and Wirth’s on the stage at the Royal)has departed,
and left the small city unamused, except for the Tivoli,
where Manager Marcus, back from America, produces a
strong show, with the Craggs as its leading feature.
Madame Melba says she is hopeful of finding a few good
tenors during her visit to Australia. And now how will
Australia’s million tenors lay for the diva 1
“ Melb.” : The Salvation Army is undisguisedly going
in for the show business. Concerts are given round the
suburbs by the Garrison Students, a troup of 20, men
and women, attired in imitation-surplices of yellow and
blue. At the festivities this Christmas in the Melbourne
Barracks, a captain came on in John Coleman's scarecrow
costume, and sang a comic song. Two other officers gave
an outrageously funny duet, dressed up as swagmen on
the wallaby. Also the really superior string-band of the
Salvation Army headquarters played a selection from
Gounod’s “ Faust,” including the Kermesse dance.
It is not generally suspected that several members of
Williamson’s Italian Opera Co. are quite incapable of
singing music at sight, and others can’t read music
at all. Their parts have to be drummed into
them by conductor Hazon, and in some cases they
are not apt pupils. These singers who memorise by ear,
so to speak, seem to pride themselves on their want of
musical education. They may, perhaps, be able to teach
themselves a part by fingering out the notes on a piano,
but have never dreamed of acquiring an artist’s pro-
ficiency in sight-reading. Armes Beaumont, the almost
blind man, can pick up a bit of unfamiliar music, pass it
in review before his remaining eye, and then sing it from
note memory. A veteran like Larizza gives one the
impression that he reads music quickly. But the average
Italian vocalist needs a lot of coaching, and a lot of assist-
ance from the prompter who holds a book under the
shelter of that unsightly canoe arrangement.
Judging from the awful popularity of Josephine
Gassman’s piccaninnies, the “White Australia” Bill needs
a clause prohibiting the introduction of Kanaka babies
by showmen for future stage purposes. The training of
colored “picks” is getting to be quite an important
industry in America. White folk encourage it by accept-
ing the precocious impishness of the “ pick ” as’a matter
for surprise rather than as natural evidence of lower
animalism in the black races. Women who start by
enthusing over the antics of an infant nigger are not
unlikely to discover a charm in its big brother’s monkey
tricks.
“ J.A.C.” : Mdlle. Dolores (Trebelli), being asked by a
Sydney interviewer what was the proper diet for a singer,
very sensibly said that it would be absurd to lay down any
general rule. Her own practice was to take an
egg beaten up in a little whisky. As a matter of fact,
there is no special diet or special drink for a singer.
The celebrated Malibran pinned her faith to “ portaire,”
which she sipped at every “ wait,” and the spectacle of
such an ethereal being standing in the wings with a
pewter-pot at her rosy mouth was decidedly bizarre.
Mirate, the tenor, for whom Verdi wrote the part of the
Duke in “ Rigoletto,” used to devour macaroni between
the acts. Baucardd, the original Manrico in “Trova-
tore,” drank wine, without stint, at every opportunity
during the performance. French singers are great
believers in a special preparation of tar-water. A robust
actor of great proportions, once well-known in Australia,
who lifted up a very fine voice occasionally, used to take
a whole bottle of whisky and a raw onion. Sometimes he
took two bottles of whisky, but he never exceeded the
one onion.
Some talk of Bill Martin, with a couple of assistants,
reproducing the Lotto cycling act at Fitzgerald Bros.’
Circus. If the Fitzs provide a duplicate of the Lotto
track, William the Plugger reckons he can show them
how to ride at an angle of 60deg.


The Trials of the Sea
Poor Food and Bad Water.
DEBILITATE THE STRONGEST SYSTEM.
The Case of
Mr. H. ASWEGE.
(by a local reporter.)
It is no use blinking the fact that after a
lengthened period of privation, such as is
descriptively narrated by Mr. Harry
Aswege, of Phoebe-street, Islington, New-
castle, enough reverses had already been en-
countered, and if the final effort to dislodge
the enemy had failed, even a temporary
cessation of hostilities would not have
averted the disaster which at one time ap-
peared to be inevitable. Success having
been achieved it is permissible to hope that
caution may guide the deliberations of those
in a similar situation. When obtaining
particulars the reported asked :
“Can you fix the date on which your
enemies started operations ? ”
Mr. Aswege; “I have no difficulty in
doing that, as it was when I went on an
eighteen months’ trip on a sailing vessel
called the Monrovia in the year 1888. After
leaving Newcastle the first place to call :at
was Manila, and from thence to New York
and back to Melbourne. The only vege-
tables we' had on the voyage were a few
yams which were procured at Manila, and
when they were eaten the items which con-
sistently appeared on our bill-of-fare were
salt beef and biscuits. Living in that way
for so many months had a bad effect on my
health generally, for when I came back to
Newcastle I felt fairly broken up.”
The reporter : “ Were you suffering from
any specific complaint ? ”
Mr. Aswege: “ I was laboring under a
CO nplete derangemant of the digestive
organs, coupled with a general relaxation of
the nervous system. I looked as worn out
as though I had returned from a hard cam-
paign instead of having been on a long sea
voyage, and I felt so languid and dull that I
did not care how things went.”
The reporter : “On your return to New-
castle did you work ashore ? ”
Mr. Aswege; “ Yes. I contracted to
build a small steamer in Tigh’s Creek, but I
often had to knock off work through feeling
too drowsy and miserable to take interest in
what I was doing, and when I came home I
used to lie down on the grass suffering the
most intense pains. When my wife saw me
in such great agony she thought that some
serious internal complaint had got hold of
me, and so there had, but it was indigestion
nevertheless.”
The reporter : ‘ ‘ Why were you so sure
about that ? ”
Mr. Aswege : “ Because the pains were
always the direct result of eating. The food
seemed to go sour in the stomach almost as
soon as I had swallowed it. I used to swell
out with wind, besides feeling acute pains
like the cramps, and my chest felt so heavy
that it was troublesome and painful to get
my breath. There was a disposition to
throw the food up again, but I was even
deprived of the ease which I might have
gained it I had been able to vomit, and there
was no help for me but to endure the torture
and suffer from a wretched sense of bilious-
ness. I was depressed and tormented by
the most horrible headaches which could
possibly fall to man, and I must not omit to
mention that I had acute pains between the
shoulders. As a matter of fact, the shoulder
pains were so severe that I used to think it
was rheumatism which affected those parts,
as the bending of my back or the movement
of my arms almost crippled me. I was in a
dreadful state when I come to consider
everything, being hardly able to get about
for the aches in my loins, and with palpita-
tion of the heart coming on if I exerted my-
self in the least. Whole nights sometimes
passed without sleep coming to my relief,
and every morning my mouth was infused
with a bitter taste, which was made all the
more disagreeable by a dirty coating over
my tongue. If I dozed off for an hour I
started suddenly from some hideous dream,
and my nervousness was demonstrated by
the excessive shaking of my nerves at the
intrusion of any noise, which also excited
and irritated me. I had lost a good deal of
weight and was altogether too weak to do a
day’s work, being nothing but a mere
wreck of my former self.”
The reporter : “ What efforts did you
make to regain your health ? ”
Mr. Aswege : 11 1 employed every means
I could think of—first, medicines from a
doctor, which I discontinued because they
did not benefit me ; then I tried many kinds
of patent medicines, which were equally
useless. These reverses worried me, be-
cause I thought myself incurable, and only
for Clements Tonic I am sure I would never
have been the healthy man I am to-day.”
The reporter : “ How did you come to
take Clements Tonic ? ”
Mr. Aswege : “ Through my wife reading
about it, and advising me to take some. I
said, ‘ I am sick of medicines, and I am
positive it will not do me any good, but you
can get a bottle if you like. ’ A bottle of
Clements Tonic was purchased, and when I
had drank it I did not know whether to get
any more or not; but on calm reflection I
thought that as nothing else could cure me
I ought to give Clements Tonic a fair chance;
so I got another couple of bottles. It was
then that an improvement began, and to my
intense delight I felt that relief was being
afforded. It was at a very serious crisis
that Clements Tonic was purchased, and if I
had been again disappointed I do not know
what would have happened, but Clements
Tonic gave me a good appetite, and In ought
me restful sleep at nights. The natural
relish and desire I had for food was some-
thing extraordinary, but not more so than
my ability to digest it, which was directly
due to the influence of Clements Tonic,
which also gave power and steadiness to my
shaking nerves, and infused strength to the
whole of my system. A rich store of vitality
was thrown into my blood by Clements
Tonic, and all the flagging members of my
body lost their aches. The unbearable pains
in my shoulders, chest, and stomach were
cast out by Clements Tonic as time went on,
and I took that medicine regularly till my
complaint was thoroughly cured. Costive-
ness had been a great trouble of mine, and
was probably accountable for the blinding
headaches and giddiness from which I had
suffered, but with the continued use ol
Clements Tonic these ailments were all
remedied, and my internal organs were as
healthy and clean as they could possibly
be.”
The reporter : “Do you ever take a sea
voyage now ? ”
Mr. Aswege : “ Never. lam foreman for
the Newcastle branch for the construction
of roads and bridges, and have settled down
now; but I shall always remember that
Clements Tonic cured me when I was in
very bad straits, and you are welcome to
publish this interview in any way you
desire.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Harry Aswkgk, of Phoßbe-street, Isling'on, near
Newcastle, in the State of New South Wales,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and sin-
cerely declare that I have carefully read the annexed
document, consisting of four folios and consecutively
numbered from one to four, and that it contains
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and
cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains mv full
permission to publish in any way my statements—
which I give voluntarily, without receiving any
payment ; and I make this solemn declaration
conscientiously believing the same to be true, and
by virtue of the .provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Hamilton, Newcastle,
this nineteenth day of October, one thousand nine
hundred and one,
DAVID MURRAY, J.P.
jk
The VOLCANIC
DERATING
MACHINE
A GREAT SAVING
. . TO . .
Hotelkeepers, Cafe Proprietors, etc.
iErated Waters of the highest quality
produced with the utmost rapidity
WITHOUT SKILLED LABOR,.
O' Absolutely the best and simplest
Machine in the market.
• PRICES GREATLY REDUCED •
Write for descriptive Pamphlets with testimonials
from people who have used the Machine for years.
W. JAMES, Proprietor
/Office : 101 QUEEN ST., MELBOURE.
IDep6t : 130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
m
GRIM'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Fop Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GRIMAMLT & Co., P stria. Sold by all Chemists.
jlk
Rider Agents wanted
throughout Australia,
one in each town to ride and
exhibit 1902 Model Cycle.
Finest Grades, £2 5s to £4
10s, carriage paid.
’OO & ’Ol Models £i 5s to £2los.
Great Factory Clearing Sale at
HALF FACTORY COST.
Every Machine fully guaranteed
We have a wonderfully liberal
proposition for good Rider Agents.
'Write at once for our bargain
’list and Special Offer using
2%d stamp or id postcard.
ADDRESS DEPT. 152-C
Mead Cycle Co., Chicago, U.S.A.
Business Announcements.
(aood Tailoriog-
SUMMER
WORSTEDS,
TWEEDS,
SERGES,
&c., Sec.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Irtt.
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors and Mercers,
73 AND 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
HOLD I ODD USE
■MMOM
WELL
IN HAND
jl
CATARRH Causes DEAFNESS
Buy Ramcv’s meditator and
prevent this. “A Sovereign
Remedy” for half-a-sovereign,
post free (remit by postal note or
coin securely wrapped and
registered). Treatment includes
Medicator, Inhalent to last tour
months, and Nasal Ointment,
ao-page booklet, * What is
Catarrh? ” and treatment of hay
fever, etc., post free on request.
Home Catarrh Cure Co., 229-231 Collins St.
MELBOURNE.
Drunkenness Cured
The Remedy can be given In Tea, Coffee, or Food,
thus Secretly Curing the Patient without
his knowledge.
mHIS CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS has shed a radiance
into thousands of hitherto desolate firesides. It does
its work so silently and surely that, while the devoted
wife, sister, or daughter looks on, the drunkard is
reclaimed, even against his will. Mrs. J. HATTON, who
cured her husband with EUCRASY, now writes us that
she has also cured a near and dear relative, and makes a
most earnest appeal to all other women to save the
drunkard. We will post free books and testimonials from
hundreds who have been cured, and Everything needed
to aid you in saving those dear to you from a life of ulti-
mate poverty and disgrace. Address —
THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
ARE YOU WEAK,
Low-spirited, Tired of Life ?
Have You utterly failed in Your efforts
to regain health. ?
THE LANGSTON REGENERATOR WILL CORE YOU.
Its effects are almost instantaneous, and t h e good
effects go on increasing from day to day
ARE YOU A SUFFERER from bad health in any of
its many forms ? Do you feel nervous, fretful, timid,
and lack the power of will and action ? Are you sub-
ject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your
kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a dis-
ordered condition ? Do you feel generally debilitated (
Do you suffer from Rheumatism, Neuralgia, or other
aches or pains ?
Write to-day for the. Doctor’s Calendar ; beauti
fully illustrated, and of vital interest to all.
Seek the Truth, it Costs Nothing.
No matter what you are suffering from, the
REGENERATOR restores the shattered consti-
tution like magic.
address • .
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
Cor. RUSSELL and COLLINS STS., MELB.
JU CORO’s
E.SSt** c£of \,\ F
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr, Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health ana Strength
to the most shattered constitutions , regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame. _
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Agents for Australasia —PERRY & CO., 47 Queen St. f
Melbourne : Wholesule Agents for New South Wales—
Australian Drug Co., Ltd., O’Connell St., Sydney. All
Chemists, or Box 165, C.P.O.
€V€RY MAH
Should send for a VALUABLE PAMPHLET explaining
how all NERVOUS and ORGANIC derangements may be
SUCCESSFULLY TREATED by a NEW METHOD. It is
EASY and PLEASANT, and will effect a PERFECT and
PERMANENT CURE. Sent post FREE. Address—
THE BOtTnIC INSTITUTE, VICTORIA CHAMBERS,
ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
DEAR SIR,—I have been cured of Weakness and De
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. 1
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make barge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
E. PARKHURST, Pitt-street, Sydney.
P| A|P’C
GOUT 5 RHEUMATIC
FII.IIS.
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in k
few days by thi3 celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. ljd. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
ItHEI
leaf
by using Wilson’s Com-
mon Sense Ear Drums.
Wonderful Results obtained in
cases considered beyond any
treatment. Soft, comfortable,
and invisible when in use.
Head Noises Relieved.
Pamphlets and Australian
Testimonials Free,
d. CHALMERS, Sole Agrent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
]
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St.. Melbourne.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS*
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English
American and made to order
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &o.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, dec.
jkljkl
DEN YE R BROS.. Surgical Instrument Makers
281 CEORCE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
jkl
jkl
jkljk
The “Quaker” Turkish
& Vapor Bath Cabinet.
All who suffer from Rheumatism,
Liver, Kidney or Bladder troubles,
Neuralgia, Eczema, Night Sweats,
&c., should have one of these
Cabinets. Price 30/-
Head and Face Steamer, 47-
Can be forwarded to any address.
<l. CHALMERS, Agent,
229 Collins St., Melbourne
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY
THERAPION
This suc-
cessful
and highly
popular remedy, as employed in the Continental Hospi-
tals by Ricord, Rostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others,
combines all the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of
the kind, and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPION No. 1 maintains its world-renowned
and well-merited reputation for derangements of the
kidneys, pains in the back, and kindred ailments, afford-
ing prompt relief where other well-tried remedies have
been powerless.
THERAPION No. 2, for impurity of he blood,
scurvy, pimples, spots, blotches, pains and swellings of
the joints, gout, rheumatism, and all diseases fo which
it has been too much a fashion to employ mercury, sarsa-
parilla, &c., to the destruction of sufferers’ teeth and ruin
of health. This preparation purifies the whole system
through the blood, and thoroughly eliminates every
poisonous matter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3, for exhaustion, sleeplessness,
and all the distressing consequences of dissipation, worry,
overwork, etc. It possesses surprising power in restoring
strength and vigor to those suffering from tihe enervating
influences of long residences in hot, unhealthy climates.
THERAPION
may be prbcwred of the
principal Chemists and
Merchants throughout the world. Price in England, 2s. 9d.
and 4s. 6d. In ordering state whieh of the three numbers
is required, and observe that the word “ Therapion ”
appears on the British Government Stamp (in white
letters on a red ground) affixed to every genuine package
by order of His Majesty’s Hon. Commissioners, and with-
out which it is a forgery.
Hypnotism
l
Reader, why not he able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain ; win reluctant affection,
(gratify your ambitions, and produce
I amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued ~in book lorm a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
[Hypnotism, which fully explains
I the mysteries and secrets
|of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I will send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a chance of |
a life-time. Address—
jk
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
yj tested and infallible Remedy,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON. LANGSTON
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.


mmm
tmift
m s.
ia
HAi
3*
jkljk
Under Royal
Patronage.
KOKO for the Hair Is a tonic, cleansing, invigorat-
ing and delightfully cooling preparation, causes the
hair to grow luxuriantly, keeps it soft and pliant,
eradicates dandriff, prevents hair from falling and
turning grey, promotes growth, contains no dye or
greasy substance, is the most cleanly of all hair
preparations, and is perfectly harmless. The unique
testimonials received prove it to be undoubtedly
the best dressing for the hair. 1/-, 2/6, and 4/6, ol
all Chemists, <fcc., everywhere.
Australian Depot: Koko-Maricopas Co., I*d.,
14, Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
* CAUTION.
See that this registered Trade
Mark is on every bottle.
Melbourne Southern Cross on one of
Britain’s latest annexations, now being exploited
by the firm of Cohen and Bull—largely Cohen :
The old gold-workings of Rhodesia are one of the most
interesting features of the country, and, therefore, Mr
Frank Johnson, in his paper read before the Colonial
Institute, had much to say about them. Mr. Johnson
lately examined 21 well-known properties, embracing 1000
claims, on which work had been done by the ancients.
Presuming that the lode extracted by the Himyarites at
least equalled in width and value the results obtained by
modern owners immediately below the old workings, he
iQ«‘loo that * nO ,J ess than 155 > 575 tons of ore, worth
130,8320 z. of gold, were removed from these 1000 claims
southern Rhodesia there were at present, he said,
114,000 registered claims. Assuming that the value of
,■ 114 > 000 ?laims was proportional to that of the
1000 claims examined, they had the astonishing result
tnat during the Himyaritic and Phoenician occupation of
the country, which lasted about 600 years, and ended
about 3000 years ago, 15,599,0000 z. of gold, worth at pre-
sent values more than £62,000,000, were removed from
Southern Rhodesia by these early Uitlanders. Mr. John-
son entered into further interesting investigations, sup-
ported by Biblical testimony, of the quantity of gold
which passed through the great mart of Ophir and by way
of Tarshish—-Sofala of to-day—to the treasuries of Ring
liavid and King Solomon ; but an even more interesting
inference was that the ancient miners have by no means
exhausted, perhaps hardly more than scratched, the
Rhodesian gold deposits.
Twenty-nine centuries ago the pick dropped from
the nerveless hand of Cohen, the gold-seeker—or
rather his deputy ; his kingdom went to pieces, he
lost his Red Sea ports, aud his brief dignity as
the owner of one of the world’s great empires" left
him. And now the immortal Cohen is back
among his old mines, looking for the reef he aban-
doned when he hurried home to fight Jeroboam,
the son of Nebat, away back on the far-out rim
of history. Truly things do come to the man who
can wait, and in the matter of waiting Cohen
beats the world. Th© setting sun of four great
empires has been reflected on his bell-topper since
the riches of these old Rhodesian mines went to
enrich Solomon—and now Solomon has comeback
for more. The awful permanency of Solomon and
Cohen is one of the world’s mysteries.
5I«
§i^
' '
-v ; .
a
w -
mm
mmm
“ /fever baby 1 Jt will soon grow now.”
‘H ARLENE’
m HAIR.
The very Finest Dressing.
Restores the Hair.
Promotes the Growth.
Arrests the Fall.
Strengthens the Roots.
Preserves the Hair.
Renders it Beautifully Soft.
Removes Dandruff.
Allays all Irritation.
Preserves, Strengthens, and Invigorates
Childrens’ Hair.
Full description and directions for use in
20 languages supplied with every bottle.
1/-, 2/6,and (triple a/6 size) 476 per
Bottle from Druggists, &c., all over
the World.
Edwards’ Harlene Co.
High Holborn, London, Eng.
pa^so c 3[='3;ojMa:c3:x:is sot-i^t
>
hi
o
g
o
W
H
H
W
o
o
o
*
H
>
f
w
s Bronchitis Cure.
tub famous remedy for
Those
Soreness in
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OP ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA. *
8 who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis'S DiflWlHr tt -r, •
the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is it effects a Coin nl o*l° p oar seness, Pain or
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic nor Consumwinn t-Jri 6 i Ure ‘n 18 c< ! m
never been known to .exist where “ Coughs - have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at tS bSnT.f a ZiT,' * Con ™ m » b ™ hs "
and a Complete Cure is certain. ’ * Beginning, a dose is generally sufficient.
BE WARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. WjGL Hearne. —Dear Sir, —I am writing to tell you
about thewonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first-the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and ! became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions* there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my ease tohe Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of tbe medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave a*ybed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradcafly improved. I am glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which acoeptmy very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, 8.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mri. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vio.
" Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her.. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
The Relative in England, who is
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
years old, also
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then onty every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that, previously for 12 months-always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am
dear Sir, ’
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.’
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows “As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales."
A Five Tears’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I am more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Tears’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
‘‘Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this-acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment!
until I became, as I am now, quite well. —Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS* CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville
Queensland, writes : —“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it ”
Writing again on the 4t,h April, 1899, he states:—“‘i
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
BRANCH DEPOT
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist;, Geelong 1 , Victoria.
7 h !^fl F f 1 , 00 ":. Greer ’ s „ , Chan l bers - 522 G*®B» Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors.
Fonvarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
.London Medical Record.
Food f >»
Infants
9
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, 4 c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED:


Pleasant and Refreshing to the Taste
and
Truly Beneficial in Effect
an
• • M
W
imw
YS4UU+UtC6V'/<<4'S4C/Jt J
&
f*rf
r
i s
I
o
is above all things a natural remedy; that is, it assists nature to
perform the functions essential to health in an absolutely natural
way, without any injurious or weakening effects. Its perfect
freedom from every objectionable quality and substance makes
it the ideal laxative. California Syrup of Figs,
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE,
acts gently and painlessly upon the Liver, Stomach and Kidneys,
thoroughly cleansing the system, promoting healthful regularity,
and leaving the organs permanently strengthened. It is the best
and most pleasant remedy for Constipation, Sluggish Liver,
Biliousness, Indigestion, Depression, Feverishness, Loss
of Appetite, Headache, and all kindred complaints, speedily
restoring health, appetite, energy and good spirits.
Ask for CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIOS, and look for the
Name and Trade Mark of the
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP COMPANY/
31 & 32 SNOW HILL, LONDON, ENGLAND.
Australian Branch —7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Of all leading Chemists, i/i£ and 1/9.
ITIV vrn.-T TJIVH CCOO-E)
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
ggg- For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & 00.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
jk
CONSULT
HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
HOLLAHD, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
Hi
A.& F. PEARS
Reduced Facsimile
of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the
jurors of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
SOAP MAZERS,
BY
Special Appointment
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
of Wales.
The Eternal Feminine.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I.
On Ben Bolter—" Big Ben,” as he was more
familiarly called —liquor wrought a complete
metamorphosis. In his right mind, he was
kindly, gentle, and genial. He was a carrier,
living in Western Queensland, and it went to his
heart to lay a whip on one of his horses. But
with one nip, Ben awoke a craving, gnawing
devil, who instantly demanded more, and more,
and more. Then the devil demanded blood.
There was one whom this devil feared—Mrs.
Bolter. She was neither young nor handsome,
but faded and washed-out, like most of the women
whose unfortunate lines have fallen in the sunny
West. Yet, the devil was so frightened of her
that he never craved for a drink when at home in
the township where Ben resided. Mrs. Bolter
alone had never seen Ben drunk.
Many wondered at this strange influence and
could not account for it. In fact, it was an intense
affection overmastering a man of good heart, weak
head, and strong passions. He had married his
wife when she was a bonnie young girl, had
brought her out west and seen her grow sallow
and old before her time in the sun-cursed, dusty
summers. Ever haunting Ben’s memory was the
picture of the peach-cheeked, bright-eyed girl she
had been, and the dull-eyed, parchment-faced
woman she now was. This thought controlled his
mind even during the maddest drunk, until it
wrought him up to a maudlin fit of remorse, and
when Ben was seen sitting at the tail of his wag-
gon crying bitterly, every one knew that the spree
was over for the time. No matter how the devil
suffered during the process of recovery, Ben would
not gratify him with a single “pick-me-up.”
At a small public-house on the roadside some
distance from his home the devil had demanded
drink, and had got it. Two other teamsters were
camped there, and the loafers about the place
remarked confidently that Big Ben and Black
Harry would have a fight before night. They had
fought many times before, and were the greatest
possible friends. Just then they were lovingly
drinking together. But soon a question arose as
to whose turn it was to shout, and they agreed to
settle the question by single combat. Ben sug-
gested that they should first clear all the loafers
out of the bar, which they did, so suddenly and
unexpectedly that much personal damage was
done.
BenS mate and Harry’s mate, who, on a strictly
honest principle, always kept, sober, and looked
after the horses when their principals got drunk,
came up to be seconds, and some of the loafers
who had escaped unhurt crept up to see. When
they had slogged themselves to a standstill they
were hauled off to their waggons by their mates,
and lay in a drunken stupor all night.
In the morning, when Ben awoke, he could tell
at the first move that he had had a tough fight
with some one, and probably Black Harry. He
pulled himself together, and was about to go oyer
to see how Harry was getting on, when he spied
the mailman, with a letter in his hand.
Ben took the letter, and sat down on an inverted
bucket to read it. It was from his wife, and he
felt sure “something was wrong ” for her to write
to him so soon. Nothing was wrong, but the
letter contained something that sent Ben into a
fit of pleasant musing. She had not told him be-
fore he left —she wrote—she thought that she
would sooner write it to him, but—in fact, there
was a prospect of his at last becoming a.father..
Poor Ben, it had been one of the hidden dis-
appointments of his life, and now it was to be
banished, and instead of a lonely old age he pic-
tured a sturdy boy, whom he would make the best
horse-driver in all Queensland. He felt he must
tell somebody, so he got up and went over to
Black Harry’s waggon. That worthy was en-
gaged in repairing damages, and. hailed his late
antagonist with effusion. Ben, in return, con-
fided to him the news that he had just received.
Harry’s congratulations were unbounded, and he
insisted that they must go up and have a royal
drink together. But Ben’s devil was cowed by
the news in the letter, and though he accom-
panied his friend he only treated the devil to
sarsaparilla, which that spirit did not like. The
men parted after arranging that Harry was to be
godfather when the time arrived ; and Ben went
off to make a late start.
Now, the whole was a pious fraud on the part
of Mrs. Bolter. She had longed for a child with
the morbid longing of the childless woman. As
Ben had concealed his disappointment from her
so she had concealed her more acute feeling from
him.
On the day after Ben left she received a letter
from her sister, who lived on the Monaro Plains,
where both of them were born. Her husband had
met with a sudden death through an accident; she
expected a ohild in a few months, and she was deli-
cate and troubled with evil anticipations; could her
sister come to her ? It was not until she sat down
to answer the letter that the idea of deceit came
into Mrs. Bolter’s mind. If her sister died, why
should she not bring the baby back as her own ?
Ben was going a long trip, and it would be six
months, or more, before he would be back. It
would render Ben steady and happy, and take
from her the reproach of the childless woman.
So she wrote Ben the letter, telling him that she
would go on a visit to her own people , while he
was away. She always managed their money
affairs, so she drew sufficient for her journey, told
some of her women friends, as a secret, that she
“expected something,” and left by the coach.
It was over six months before Ben got back,
although he had made as much haste as possible,
but floods study no man’s affairs, and the country
had been under water. He had a letter from his
wife just before he reached home containing the
news of her safe arrival home and of the baby’s.
Of her sister’s death she said nothing.
Ben had a joyous home-coming. Ever since
the fight with Black Harry he had kept the devil
chained up, and he was in the best of health and
spirits. As for the baby, he was the most
astonishing boy for his age that ever was (con-
sidering that his birth had been post-dated two
months, that was not wonderful). Ben’s trips,
after the new arrival, were made as short as
possible. The promise with Black Harry was
duly kept, and he vowed on the baby’s behalf
with the greatest enjoyment, and henceforth
seemed to consider that he had a joint share in
the infant. As for Mrs. Bolter, she seemed to
grow young again under the new home influence.
She grew stout and happy-looking, and lost the
strained, wearied look that had come to her in her
lonely days. Time went on, and baby Ben had
attained the middle of his third year, and his
great delight was to be always with Big Ben
when he was at home.
One evening Ben was smoking at the door of
his house, on the dusty main road of the town-
ship, when he heard the voices of two men spik-
ing, on the adjoining plot of vacant ground, lhe
child was playing out there, and they had stopped
to notice him. „ _ ,
“Is that Ben’s kid?” said one. Isnt much
like him, is he ? ” , ,
11 No,” returned the other. “If I did not know
better, I’d say he was Black Harry’s.”
“ He’s awfully like Harry, isn’t he? said the
other voice, and then the conversation died away
in the distance. ..
Ben remained still with a queer sort of feeling
in his brain, as if somebody had struck him. 1 hen
he went out, picked up the child, and carried him
into the house. His wife was out, and with the
child in his arms he went into the bedroom and
looked in the looking-glass.
No, there was no resemblance between them
whatever. Strange that he had never noticed it
until the chance words had attracted his attention.
The child was dark—eyes, eyebrows, and hair,
even his skin had a slightly swarthy hue. Ben
was fair and blue-eyed, so was his wife.
He set the boy gently down and tried to think,
but only one idea found room in his troubled
brain, that he was not little Ben’s father. A fixed
idea had got hold of him which could not be
shaken off. But as yet no feeling against his wife
had arisen. Somehow, although satisfied that the
boy was not his, he did not connect her with any
sense of injury. He had loved her too truly and
too long, was too convinced of her fidelity and
truth, to admit any doubt of her as yet.
Then the devil who had been chained uj> so
long whispered to him to go out and get a drink.
But he spoke in vain. Ben had a dim idea of what
he might do if he drank, and the devil remained
chained.
His wife came home and soon noticed his listless
and absent manner, but he would give her no ex-
planation of it; and she could only follow him
about with wistful eyes, wondering what serpent
had entered their Eden. Evening drew on, and
with a rattle and a rush the coach came in, puttmg
on, as usual, the spurt the driver had saved up for
the finish.
A shriek from his wife, “Ben! the boy!
Right in the road stood little Ben. Ben s feet
seemed clogged; through his tormented brain
surged the words, “I’d say he was Black Harry s
child.” An instant vigorous dash would have saved
the child. A dash was made, but that one
moment of hesitation on Ben’s part before his
right self reasserted itself, was the moment of
doom. The driver made a manful struggle to pull
his horses off, at the risk of overturning the coach,
but an iron-shod hoof struck the laughing child on
the head, and the bright little life flickered out on
the spot. It was a dead form that Ben carried m
and laid on the bed.
Night had long fallen. Sympathising friends
had come and gone, and Ben still sat, his head in
his hands, as he had sat since he had carried the
little corpse in. His or not, he had loved the
child, and he knew, though no one else did, that
if he had not lost that one precious moment, he
would have saved him. .
Some one came to him in the semi-darkness
someone who dropped upon her knees, sobbing
bitterly. “ Ben ! Ben ! I must tell you the truth
now. It was not your child that you sorrow for.”
Even this did not rouse him. “ I know it,” he
answered, wearily.
“Know what?”
“ That I was not little Ben’s father.
The woman started to her feet. “My God,
Ben, you surely do not mean that, or think I mean
it. Listen, listen,” and, in her hysterical eager-
ness, she shook him with trembling hands, “Ben,
he was not our child ! Our child, do you under-
stand ? ”
“ Not our child ! ”
“No, he was my sister’s, who died. I never had
a child nor hope of one. I lied to you when I
wrote to you that I had. But oh ! I did long for
one so. When my sister died I brought the child
back with me as mine, my own. I never told you,
for you were so happy, and I grew almost to think
the child was really mine.” .
In Ben’s brain the tune had changed ; it now
ran that if he had been told the truth, and the
child been adopted straightforwardly, the still
form on the bed would be alive now. It was all a
tangle that he could not put into shape.
He would have welcomed the child. gladly as
his orphan nephew. Why, then, was it imposed
upon him as his own ? Poor Ben ! —the woman
and mother were a sealed book to his understand-
ing.
Suddenly he saw light. The weeping woman at
his knees must never know of the words he had
heard, of the thoughts suggested by them, of the
moment’s cruel hesitation they had caused. She
must never know that her deceit had indirectly
brought about little Ben’s death. That was clear,
amid all the web of untruth. It was something to
do, and it gave him strength. He lifted his wife
up, and let her cry her heart out in his embrace.
Long afterwards, when Ben had buried his
wife, and, a lone and wearied man, had turned
his face to the West, lying on the ground,
dying, with a flint-headed spear through his lungs,
he thought with satisfaction that she had never
known.
ERNEST FAVENC.
The Prahran branch of the A.N.A.
(which professes to be Australian and non-
political) has cancelled Jack Murray’s engagement
to lecture to it on the Temperance question, on
the ground that the plucky Warrnamboolian
doesn’t approve of Britain’s Boer annexation
policy in South Africa. As Murray has been of
the same opinion all along, it is difficult to see
why the lecture engagement was made, unless the
A.N.A. didn’t know its own mind at the time, or
unless it was done in order that the arrangement
might be cancelled later on with a great blowing-
off of loyal steam and advertisement. . Possibly,
after this, the Rev. lan Maclaren, who is expected
to shortly visit Melbourne, will not be allowed to
preach because he termed the miserable South
African brigandage a stock-jobbing war.
“Safety-valve”: Re “casual” and all-
round “temporary” nature of working the Vic.
railways. Even the permanent hands have duties
allotted to them out of all proportion to their ex-
perience. Writer knows of an instance. At a
country station one of the recently-appointed
engine-cleaners was left solely in charge of the
washing out, lighting up, etc., of two or three
locomotives after three days’ experience in thp ser-
vice. His previous knowledge of locomotives was
nil. And this is not an isolated case. These men,
in small country sheds, are mostly employed at
night—when no other men are about. Some night
one of them will light up an engine with insuf-
ficient water in the boiler, or, after washing out
the engine, he will leave a “ mud-plug cross-
threaded, and it will blow out when the steam
pressure rises behind it. House rent near loco-
motive engine - sheds will come down rapidly
afterwards!


Do You Get Up
With a Lame Back?
#
-o
•o
7
f J
Kidney Trouble makes you Miserable.
Ooan’s Backache Kidney pills
ARE THE GREAT REMEDY FOR
KIDNEY, BLADDER, AND URIC ACID TROUBLES.
You are in no danger of being sick if you keep your kidneys
well.
They filter your blood and keep it pure and free from disease-
breeding germs.
Your other organs may need care, but your kidneys most,
because they do most.
If you are sick, begin with your kidneys, because as soon as
they are well they will help all the other organs to health.
The treatment of some diseases may be delayed without
danger ; not so with kidney disease.
The testimony of friends and neighbors cheerfully given by
them, and told here in their own words, is the positive evidence
of merit that backs every box of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
Read this, a Case in Point.
Mr. Martin Nicholas, whose city address is No. 16 Elizabeth-street, says“ A year
ago I gave my testimony as to the wonderful benefits I derived from Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills. I had been a great sufferer from kidney trouble for a long time. My back
ached so terribly at night that I could scarcely sleep, and it was so sore that I could
hardly turn over or get out of bed. The disease, or whatever it was, was getting a firmer
hold on me, and at one time I was laid up in bed for three whole weeks. The doctors
advised an operation, but I would not consent to this. I finally got up again ; but I was
a constant sufferer. At times the pain in my back was so severe that I could hardly
stand up. I had tried doctors and numerous remedies, but not until I had taken Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills did I get relief. I procured these pills at Newman’s Pharmacy,
in King-street. I continued taking them until I was entirely cured. It is nearly a year
ago since I discontinued taking them ; but I have had no return of my old complaint, and'
this convinces me more firmly than ever that these pills are a true specific for kidney
troubles, and as such I will always recommend them.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes, 15s. 3d.), or will be
posted on receipt of price by Poster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street,
Sydney.
BUT BE SURE YOU GET DOAN’S.
A Marching Song.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
There’s a mighty army marching to the music of
a band,
And the front rank steps out gaily, bearing nothing
in its hand;
There is laughter there and gladness, for the
breezes kiss and sing,
And the quickstep rolls and ripples, and the
soldiers proudly swing;
But, alas! the rear-guard follows in a loose and
weary mob—
For the people’s backs are burdened, and you’ll
sometimes hear them sob :
As they march, march, march —
Oh ! the hand's so far in front
That they scarcely ever hear it,
Though the trumpets hr ay and grunt.
Yet they march, march, march,
In a dogged, hopeless way,
Oh l I hope they'll swing together
To a marching-tune some day.
They are lingering in the vanguard. Can’t you
raise a song behind ?
For ’t would clear the leaden dullness that is
clogging heart and mind.
But I only hear the sobbing of a woman close at
hand,
Where another fighter’s perished where he cannot
hear the band.
And an old man toils before me—mumbling lips
and silvery hair;
And a ringless mother staggers far too tired to feel
or care.
Oh, you dreamers in the lead there! and you
buglers ! swell your strain
That the burdened ones may hear you and be
lightened of their pain ;
As they tramp, tramp, tramp —
If the hand would only play
It would give them heart to labour
In the hot and tiring day.
Oh l they tramp, tramp, tramp,
And they don't keep step at aU,
And there are so few to notice
And to help them if they fall.
To the thunder of its marching there’s a mighty
army goes,
With the big drum fairly jumping to the laughing
drummer’s blows —
And, long dusty leagues behind him, in a silence
grim and grand.
Comes the noble, toiling rear-guard, but—they
never hear the band.
If the power were mine I’d help them (if a song
would only do) —
Oh ! my outcast, toiling comrades, here’s my
hand in love to you !
As you march, march, march
In the dull and dusty rear,
Where your aimless, weary stumbling
Is the only sound you hear.
Comrades, march! march ! march l
For you'll hear the music soon
And you'll step and swing together
In a rocking, rolling tune.
M.L.
QUILP N.
Two Wooden Legs.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“THIS was how it was,” said old Paddocks,
slowly rubbing a handful of black twist between
his palms. “ Our Mollie had contracted to marry
Jim Brady, him as went to the war. When
they called fer troops, Jim, like a lot more young
fools, thought as how it was jest a picnic party to
go out and cut them Boers’ throats. So he ups
and jines the contingent. But, afore it starts, he
wanted to take Mollie to the church. Then I
puts my fut down. ‘No,’ says I; ‘ I’m not a-
goin’ to have my gell a-snivellin’ and a-slobberin’
about the house,’ says I, ‘ awaitin’ fer Jim ; and
expectin’ this and fearin’ that, and redoocin’ her-
self to a skellington,’ says I. ‘ Let her run free,’
says I, ‘ and if she’s of the same mind when Jim
gets home, all right.’ Well, they was forced to
come to my terms, and off Jim goes to the war.
“Now you must understan’ there was an ole
cove wi’ a wooden leg, named Burr, livin’ just
across the crik from us. He didden used to do a
hand’s turn but ’tend to his garding. And he
had no need to, cos he was wuth ’bout twenty
thousand, true as yer bom. He wasn’t a bad ole
cove, and used to stump across that crik and
smoke a pipe in our verandy. He thought a
ter’ble lot of Mollie, and used to bring her bushels
of fruit and flowers and sich. After Jim left he
came oftener; and the flip-flop, flip-flop of his
timber leg got as familiar as the rooster’s crow of
a mornin’.
“Between you and me, I b’lieve my ole woman
used ter encourage him. Well, months and months
went by and we never heered from Jim. Once we
saw a line in the paper that a James Brady was
mortally wounded and in the horspital; but he
never wrote, which he should have done. We
heered arterwards that his letters missed fire
somewheres.
“ Howsomever, ole Burr kep’ on stumpin’ across
that crik, and the flip-flop of his timber leg was as
reg’lar as the kitching clock. And gradually
Mollie got to listen for it. And her mother kep
a-eggin’ her on and a-eggin’ her on, and tellin’ as
how pore Jim ud never, never come back; and
how it was no jise a waitin’, till Mollie didden
know what she wanted.
“At last, things got to that pitch that Mollie
used ter sprig herself out every blessed evenin’,
with a bunch of old Burr’s flowers in her breast;
and d’reckly she heered the flip-flop cornin’ along
the verandy, then she’d up and run to the dure to
meet him. Well, yer may guess things were
gettin’ serious when he called her ‘ my own
Mollie,’ and she called him ‘ dear Samuel! ’ I
didden hear ’em, but my ole woman did. She
could hear a mouse squeak t’other side of the
paddick. 9
At last one day the ole woman ups and tells
Mollie she must clue matters up and choose be-
tween a man wi’ a property and a big bank-
account and a man who might be a dead-’un and
who had nothing, even if he was alive. ‘ He’s
got a wooden leg,’says Mollie. ‘What of that,’
says the ole woman. ‘ Why, I’d marry him if he
had two wooden legs and I had to wheel him ’bout
in a pram.’ Yer can’t beat my old woman by
much. Well, she got Mollie worked up to proper
order, till she said as how she’d settle things that
night. So she togs out extra fine in a white
musling with little blue things all over it and old
Burr’s last booky in her front, till she looked as
fresh as new paint and as blooming as a rose.
“Ole Burr gen’ally sounded on the path jest
afore sundown, but this night it was gettin’ dusk
afore the ole woman heered the flip-flop, flip-flop
of the ole reliable wooden leg a-comin’ along
the verandy. She gives Mollie the orfis, and
the gell runs past me to the dure. I heard
the ole flip-flop stop all on a suddin’; then
Mollie gives a hawful scream and drops on
the dure-mat as flat as a tin plate. And
there was Jim Brady standin’ like a fool, wi’ a
wooden leg, same as ole Burr’s. True as yer
born. Well, ’ere was ago! We got Mollie to
bed and locked Jim up in the wood-house. Then
the ole woman and I waited fer timber-toe number
two. But he didden come. Jim got rusty and
played up bobbery dick, till we let him see Mollie.
He swore he’d go and shoot ole Burr fust thing
after breakfast if Mollie and he weren’t married
next day. I think he’d have done it, tew. Parson
hitched ’em up, and we all thought it curious that
ole Burr hadn’t turned up till we heered he’d been
found a’most dead on the crik bridge. Yer see, his
oleleghad gone clean through the floorin’, and there
it stuck, hard and fast, all that arternoon and all
night, and somehow he warn’t able to unhitch
it. _ The ole cove cudden speak above a
whisper when they sawed the leg off him, being
as how he had yelled like forty cows fer twelve
solid hours; and they had to pour two gallons of
ile down his throat afore he could swaller his food.
I felt sorry fer the ole chap; so did Mollie. I
dunno about Jim. The ole woman said to me as
how she wished another wooden leg had stuck in
a bridge over in S’Africa somewhere. Yer can’t
beat my ole woman by much.
O. H. READ.
O’Flaherty's Troubles.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O’Feaherty was a toilsome, inoffensive scion of
nobility, working out his perdition as a “ sthrug-
gler,” or 80-acre selector, in a district too high
above sea-level for any blessing to rest upon it.
The whole area of his estate was originally colon-
naded, at the rate of 50 trees to the acre, with a
variety of messmate which simply would not
bum. The land, when cleared, might have been
adapted to the growth of unsaleable root-crops,
only for its being hopelessly addicted to sorrel,
cockspur, and similar pests.
But O’Flaherty’s eye of faith perceived a time
when that allotment would represent a com-
petency —and his forecast has long since been ful-
filled.
My friend was a widower, with one daughter,
named Bridget, and therefore in service. As with
many men of greater celebrity, his ambition was
to found a family; and to this end he battled
hard for a freehold home, where Bridget and the
present narrator might enjoy an easier and more
dignified life than had fallen to his own lot.
But, a couple of years after taking up the
selection, he had been assisted over some difficulty
by a genial and business-like person, named Moss,
who obligingly took charge of his Land Office
documents for safety, and from time to time got
him to sign various long blue papers as a mere
matter of form.
The original advance was £75 nominal —equal
to £5O nett; and, for four years, all O’Flaherty’s
revenue, beyond bare subsistence on the Conne-
mara scale, went toward liquidation of the loan.
He kept no books except “Moore’s Melodies”
and “The Lives of the Saints,” and knew no rule
of arithmetic except the rule of thumb; but in
process of time his mental memoranda of repay-
ments seemed so like a fair thing between man
and man that little could remain beyond the
moral obligation. You will observe that he was
“more Popery than fiscal” —to quote the im-
mortal words of a one-time politician of New
South Wales.
But Israel, of the Lord beloved (a partiality, by
the way, open to reverent criticism), was a past-
master in finance as well as a friend in need.
Anyway, lulled by the fanning of the vampire’s
wings, O’Flaherty took no thought of his own big
toe, till he woke with a start, to find Moses avail-
ing himself of his right of foreclosure.
Macaulay quotes Pitt to the somewhat ungram-
matical effect that, “though the cottage of the
poorest British subject might be frail, the roof might
shake, the wind might blow through it, the storm
might enter, the rain might enter, but the King of
England could not enter it! In all his forces, he
dared not cross the threshold of that ruined
tenement! ” This is intended to convey, and does
convey, to the mind’s eye a picture of the poorest
British subject (which is saying a lot) standing
inside his “tenement,” with Magna Charta at
full cock in one hand, and the British Constitution
glittering unscabbarded in the other ; tranquil,
defiant, almost contemptuous, whilst Dei Gratia,
arrayed in the regimentals of his rank, and
supported by the various branches of the Service,
desperately essays that inviolable threshold, and
recoils baffled, like an ant from a line of chalk.
But in the ever-sacred name of common horse-
sense, why should the potentate in question want
to cross that threshold ? Of what use would the
immunity be—even if it did exist, which it never
did, and never could —to the unfortunate wretch
whose threshold can be crossed with such facility
by a royal officer, vulgarly termed the bailiff, and
still more vulgarly, the bum ? Pitt had an object
in his insidious bombast; but there is no excuse
for people who, at the present day, repeat it and
print it, otherwise than as a monumental example
of balderdash.
However, I dropped in to collogue with
O’Flaherty, when I heard of his calamity. The
representative of Royalty lay in the spare bunk,
smoking. The garrison of the impregnable for-
tress sat on a block by the embers of the last fire
he could legally kindle on his capacious hearth.
The Advocate —the Victorian organ of the wan
thrue Church —was in his hand. He had been
reading the paper till the firelight failed, and
now he was dispirited, despondent. He explained
to me that the Italian Government was making
an attempt to drain and plant the marshes of the
Campagna ; and he was sure, from the tone of the
Advocate article which noticed the enterprise,
that the attempt was foredoomed to failure.
Hence his dejection. O’Flaherty was a philoso-
pher. He had attained the Everlasting No.
JOSEPH FORPHY.
ITCHINESS OF THE SKIN.
Ever have any irritation of the skin ? There
are many forms of it, any of them bad enough to
tax your patience. Hemorrhoid, a plague of the
night; no rest for the sufferer from that com-
plaint. Eczema, too. Hives don’t sound danger-
ous, but they cause much misery to those
unfortunate enough to be troubled with them.
Doan’s Ointment is “a wonder” for any such
trouble. Any troublesome irritation of the skin
can’t resist its healing, soothing influence. Lots
of Sydney people know this now.
Mrs. M. A. Carter, Waratali, Orange-st., Rand-
wick, this city, writes a most enthusiastic letter
as to how her young daughter, aged 10 years, was
cured of Eczema by Doan’s Ointment. Mrs.
Carter thought her daughter contracted the
disease at school, It affected her scalp, which
was terribly inflamed and all broken out, and
irritated her terribly. She obtained of
Doan’s Ointment at Newman’s Pharmacy, King-
street, and, after thoroughly washing the child’s
scalp, applied it. The result was that the scalp
entirely healed in a few days, and left no scar,
much to their joy.
“I have also used the Ointment myself for
irritation of the skin —a sort of Eczema —and it
has done me equally as much good as it did my
daughter. You are at liberty to publish these facts
at any time, and I will only be too pleased to
verify the statements should I be called upon to
do so.”
Doan’s Ointment is splendid in all Diseases of
the Skin, Eczema, Piles, Hives, Insect Bites, Sores,
Chilblains, &c. It is perfectly safe and very
effective. Very frequently two or three boxes
have made a complete cure of chronic cases that
have not yielded to ether remedies for years.
Sold at 2s. 9d. per box. If you cannot obtain it
locally from your chemist or storekeeper, same
will be posted on receipt of price by'
Foster-McClellan Co., 78 Pitt-street, Sydney.


:s.-'
m
ITOVELTIT
TH
kj
jkjk
jk
jk
‘GraGiosa’
PA TENTED. REGISTERED.
The most Comfortable and Durable of Corsets* ____
Cannot Break at the Waist Line !
WHAT THE WEARERS S/1K OF THEM—
Lady W. writes: —“The ‘ GBACIOSA ’ Corset is simply perfect in shape,
adapting itself to the body in any position.”
Lady S. writes “I find your ‘GBACIOSA ’ Corset the most comfortable I have
ever worn, and a periect fit.”
Lady M. writes “Your vGRACIOSA ’ Corset is the very perfection of fit, the
very thing I have been wishing for, as there is perfect freedom of movement
of the body. lam quite delighted with it.”
Lady B. writes “ Your ‘GBACIOSA’ Corset is a splendid fit, and the most
comfortable corset I have ever worn.”
P.R. writes : - “ Our assistant likes the 5 GBACIOSA ’ Corset very much,
thinks they will be a great success, and have a large sale. We shall be very
pleased to give an order, as soon as they are ready for delivery.”
W. T writes : Your 1 GBACIOSA ’ Corset gives great satisfaction.”
SOLO BY ALL FIRST-CLAS* DRAPE' S THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
W. S. THOMSON & CO., Ltd., London, Manufacturers
Makers of t e World-Renowned “ Glo'e-Fitting ” Co-sets.
Q. F. Griffiths, Sole Agent for Australasia, Watsons Chambers, Melbourne.
‘ • 12 PRIZE MEDALS.
S. FREEMAN > SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
BEAD OFFICE : WYNYABJD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
STRENGTH for the WEAK
and NERVOUS.
•* THE MEDICAL MONTHLY,” August, 1893, says : “ The firm of Arthur Hale
and Son, of 105 Regent Street, London, W., has distinguished itself in the develop-
ment of electrical science as a medical agent. By an entirely new method of applica-
tion'they have succeeded in producing an Electric Body Belt, which for comfort,
efficacy, and genuineness, is unquestionably' far superior to any previous invention.”
WE INVITE ALL intending purchasers of our IMPROVED and
PATENTED ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES
to & FAIR TRIAL and TEST before payment. Call upon us if possible.
If it is not convenient for you to call at our offices, request a, friend or an
acquaintance in this city, or one coming from your own town, to do so for
you. We will first show you that our IMPROVED and PATENTED
ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES are genuine pro-
ducersof a continuous GALVANIC CURRENT by a MOST CRITICAL
TEST with the GALVANOMETER. And if you or your representative
cannot feel the ELECTRIC CURRENT from the GALVANIC
CRAINS in our ELECTRIC BELTS and APPLIANCES, we are will-
ing to place £lO 10s. to the credit of each of any two Charities you may
mention, either in this city or your own town or city.
We most cordially and respectfully invite any PHYSICIAN or
ELECTRICIAN to inspect our IMPROVED and PATENTED
ELECTRO-GALVANIC BELTS and APPLIANCES, which we are
now offering for sale to the AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC.
y
HaJe & Son’s Improved and Patented Electro-Galvanic Belts and Appliances are
Nature’s Chief Restorers. Our Plain Belt, our Special Belt and Suspensor lor Gentlemen,
and our Abdominal Belt for ladies are guaranteed to he the most Scientific and Genuine
Electric Appliances yet produced. They will speedily relieve and Cure Nervous Exhaus-
tion, Rheumatism, Pain and Weakness in the Back, impart tone and vi«or to the whole nervous
system, and make life a pleasure. We invite all sufferers, no matter what tha*disease or ailment may be,
to call or send for our Free Book, entitled, 11 Modern Treatmoift of* Disease l>y Electricity.”
Consultation Free. ___
HALE & SOM, Medical Galvanists,
105 Regent St., London, W.> and 44 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
Please mention this paper. '
UfTHAWA*
*vM<:z„zy&
i 'ft /*'
A
MaL'
>/;
Am&
u,
"✓'
Wit
] ' P
Crovjine Blacking
Is thefoest dressing made for all bright finished leathers.
It is easily applied with a cloth, and produces a polish that is unequaled for brilliance
and permanence. Men, women, and children who use “Crozine” once want “ Crozine ”
always, as it is the most satisfactory waterproof dressing made for all varieties of shoes.
Sold almost everywhere. Made and guaranteed only by
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS, Boston, Mass., U. S. L
jk
%
Iv
THESE ARE
hf nn I
VS ::
AU, BILIOUS
8c NERVOUS
DISORDERS'
3V
/
D
©
it»§
Sc
jkl
%
Now
Ready.
—w ■ Mi
ft Pill if
n rULII
::r: j
-
»cT.
jk
The Universal Remedy for Acidity oi the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
Tli© Physician’s CTur©
for Gout, Rheumatie
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDSi
MAGNESIA,
ljk
Sold Throughout the WoM
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
lj
£9 lOs.
Tel., 2710 Bedfern
This Special No. 3 Sulky
with Wing Boards well
adapted for country roads
and hard usage. Will give
univeral satisfaction.
Pittman’s Commonwealth
Steam Works
176 and 178 Morehead St., Redfern.
TH’K THREE CAUSES:
BECAUSE Pittman’s Vehicles are articles of real worth
, and true merit.
BECAUSE’they are always in ready demand.
BECAUSE when their .-mperior qualities have once been
demonstrated, you will have no other
than Pittman’s Vehicles.
pp- ?end for Illustrated Catalogue and Price List
Full Description * Prices of Vehicles free on application
ljk
IRISH
IRISH MOSS
mmm
GtORQE^B&fmNGTON
MOSS
THE WONDERFUL
MEDIgINE.
URES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.


Water! Water! We’re Withering!
We want Water 1 THIS 18 TH x E H ii P DEY I VEAraIi FLOWEES
Can you let it go unheeded when a ....
— —
IS
so
CHEAP.
iod. a month will pay for the water, -a®
OUR PRICE list:
? inch x 3 Ply Rubber Hose, 235, 255, 30s, 365, 42s per Coil of 50 feet.
Imch Cotton-covered Hose, 20s, 22s 6d, 255. per Coil of 50 feet,
jrem Controlling Nozzle (fitted) 2s ; Ball Nozzle Sprinklers (takes same
coupling), Is 6d. Reels, Unions, and all Fittings.
PERDRIAU and COMPANY,
Hunter & George Street, Sydney
ljk
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
T. C.
40
ZELIDIR-lEIDGKE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
YOKE STREET, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
SI
PSON BROTHERS
(Sole
WORTHINGTON.
1
trade mark.
ljk
l
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send for Catalogue.
IRRIGATING
PLANTS
NC
OUR
SPECIALITY
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Coolgardie.
By OIL, STEAM, GAS, ELECTRICITY
Representing
in Australia
jkl
jk
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
St will stay on the sheep’s back as long 1 as required. It will NOT injure the wool.
the ordinary scouring: process.
It will dissolve out under
MaNTJEACTUEEBS AND SOLE AGENTS*
EESBIIL mmw * CO. DIEEBOIIimL
! LA-CK, ii ED. and BLUE (in 8-gallon Canes)- -
PRICE IN MELBOURNE .. ... ; _ 3/3 per Gallon.
„ SYDNEY Rich & Co. Ltd.) «. „ „ 3/0
„ BRISBANE (E. Rich &Co Ltd.) «. «, ' «. 0/0 »
« erogjai* Co.) j, B , 4,3
Ottumwa Winding Engine.
Catalogues Free on Application.
Manufacturers and Importers
OF ALL KINDS OF
MINING MACHINERY,
STEAM ENGINES
AND
BOILERS.
©o
0 /
Qq
1 1
re
m
ye/
o©
LAUNDRY
AND
WOOD-WORKING
MACHINERY,
ENGINEERS’ FITTINGS,
MINE and MILL SUPPLIES.
Hi
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
ffIHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
-*- Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges mnch lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hoor by tram. Billiards, etc.
H. P. BRESQRy I C
General Machinery Merchants,
Sydney & Melbourne.
SOLE AGENTS EOR THE
BLAKE STEAM PUMP.
Best Pump in the Market for
Boiler-Feeding: Irrigating,
Mining,
Fire and Marine Purposes.
SINGLE AND DUPLEX. /
Al>l> SIZES, up to 50,000 gallons, Imp,,
per hour, in Stock.
tfS’Zend for Particulars and Prices.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST- SUPPER.
•.* S'-.
,
I was for years ; by Chance I camp across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped- and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Sending, mention this paper.
' M? ri
'' ■ y
£l> PHOSPMATItfES
FAUERES
The Only
Food
Cr,‘WtS'Z / fi.'
containing
Phosphate
of Lime.
For INFANTS and
INVALIDS.
AN ESSENTIAL REQUISITE IN THIS COUNTRY.
THE MICA LUBRICANT CO., SOUTH SHIELDS, ENG.
Lubricants and Packings for all purposes. Patent Mica Grease saves 90% in cost of lubrication, and keeps
bearings perfectly cool. Patent Mica Packings last twice as long as ordinary, and are 25% lighter. They do
not score the rods, but put a mica surface on them, similar in appearance to electro-plate.
Sole gent for Australasia : R. A. HE RVEY. Dep6t, 171 Clarenee-st., Sydney, N.S.W
IN addition to the inconvenience inherent in the infirm-
ity itself, Deafness has a marked influence on the
Mental Development of the individual, when the latter
has been attacked by it in youth.
For a long time Deafness and Chronic Affections of the
Ear have been considered almost incurable, but recently
a very simple means has been found in the jElectricon to
successfully apply Metallic Galvanic Electricity direct W
the ears, permanently curing l Deafness, and completely
banishing all distressing head noises.
Those who are interested in the subject would do well
to read the complete description of this method of treat-
ment in the Journal for the Deaf, published by the
l. R. VERNON COY., 60=64 Hunter St., Sydney,
and sent FREE to anyone asking for it.
jgOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
