

The Bulletin
Vol 23.—N0. 1193.]
[Saturday, December 27, 1902.
Registered at the General Pest Offloe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Nevmpagl
McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. Reid’s London Draught Stout..
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
MEDALS
26,000 Steam Engines Sold
M'imoXL'IcERWF^ATK.
“ Ararat (Victoria), 2f>th Aug., 1982.
•< During the past few years Eczema has become of very,
frequent occurrence, especially in children. Iwthe teeat-
ment of tins troublesome a eetion the usual medicinal
remedies faileddn ma»ycases to give relief, and I wastry
a new preparation, named ‘ Oleae, putiate
nfyhandwfor trial. I-can recall to mycmind bhree cases of
cwdren in which the usual remedies had no beneficial
effect and the application of ‘ Oleae ’ accordmg'to the
printed directions removed all the irritation of the skin.
I%ave also heard of many adults using the ‘ Oleae with
great benefit.—JAMES SMEAL, Surgeon, &C-, Ararat
!M BUUJETnTsTORY BOOK :
By Sixtyßulletin writers. Cloth, 800 page* ;
price, Is, 6d,; postage, 6d.
BOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS Z
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° ■ m Pitt street, SYDNEY.
7 SOLE AGENTS FOB
HAVE IN STOCK AND TO ARRIVE—PGKTABLE,
VERTICAL, FIXED AND SEMI-FIXED
Proctor & 00.,
Ruston,
STEAM AND
Motion Tliraßhing Madiines,
Send for Prices and Particulars.
OIL ENGINES, BOILERS and PUMPS.
Booontrio
AND
Sencb.es. &0., &<s.
« HERVEY’S RACKAROCK ”
17 Years’ Unbroken Record as a Standard Australian Exposive. Cor. CLARENCE & KIMC STSi^SYDNEY
Estbd. 1831.
ES
WHISKY.
HOBART.
liadley’s Orient Hotel.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Gradb).
j. a. TURNER - - Proprietor.
Tawny Port
Invalid Port
Golden Sherry
¥.O. Frontignao
Rich Gonetantia
Championship of Australia, Melbourne, 1902.
Championship, Adelaide, 1902<
No. 0 Claret
No. 1 Claret
Chablls
Tokay
Muscadine
SHOULD
pT©Ceer
! V
THER
LTI
The Leading Belt of Australia
Used exclusively by the Govt B ' of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SIN GEE AM> DOUBLE
BELTING i
221 3 31 4 66 8 10 12 inch.
_/7 _/9 -m II- 1/2 1/6 1/11 2/8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 2/11 3/6 4/6 6/7 6/9
Agent# in every State.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
IN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
ewellerv trade-wz., the above handsome Brooch
(anv name or three initials) made of extra quality
£t cSd-filled wire, with heart pendant ; guaran-
brooch
nnmrjlete Sent post-free on receipt of P.&O. or
S?o l for ss. in round wire onto. twisted wire, Wot
crold.filled, Bs. «d.'' Illustrated catalogues sent free.
gIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address
„,_, r ARCADE, TVIEL'?OURME, AUSTRALIA.
635. E .
Mining and Dredging Plants. Engines,
Fowler Traction Engine.
ItheClyde Engineering Csy,Ltp
Desiccating Plants.
Hopper Waggons, &c.
0£
PROOF
On
Head Ojflee:
10 BLICH ST., SYDNEY
N.3.W. Carriage & Saddlery SVianuf. Company,
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY ? If so, send for our Price List. You
will'save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring, Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best an d strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and everv description of vehicles-in Stock and made
to Order! H ARX ESS and SADDLERY' of, every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who sav they will deliver for less
"khan we can.' The;' cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent, more for your requirements.
OUR SKKCIAIj No. 2
£8 18/6
Wharf «r
S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10 /-
A NICE PRESENT.
The New Combination PIN-
CUSHION, THIMBLE & REEL
HOLDER, nickel plated, plush
top. Clamps on to any table
by means of a spring. Price,
only 2a.; post free.
Star Novelty Company)
220-231 Collins-st.,
Metbourao.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS- TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfkeld Pamela
ST. HILDA.
niHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
i-hour by tram. Biiiiards, etc.
■WHEN buying a KEROSENE GAS STOVE insist
” ” on getting a noiseless
JUPITER
The Very Latest
Invention.
Burns Noiselessly,
Without Smell
or Smoke,
Perfectly Safe.
Obtained First Prize
wherever exhibited.
Stacked by all Leading Hardware Merchants and
Storekeepers.
Sole Agents for Australasia —
Nelson and Robert son,
17 LOFTUS ST., SYDNEY.


UNDER THE GUMTREE
iVT OW that there.is no risk
I of embroiling Australia
1 and 'endangering the
peace of Europe, I
naturally grasp the first oppor-
tunity of explaining the matter.
The Coronation lias become
ancient history ; and, however
King Edward may be vexed, I
h ive myself to consider. I scru-
p dously refrained from promis-
m x secrecy. And it lias become
im lossible to endure longer the
eternal chant : “Did you see
th ’ Coronation?” “What did
yo ' think of the Coronation ?”
“ low was it you did not write
ab ut the Coronation ? ” Quid-
nu or crony, they have no
oth r greeting.
O course, when I knew that
the e was going to be a Corona-
tio i. and that I was travelling
from Australia to write about it, 1 realised thai
there and Wen was the chance of my journalistic
career. “The'Coronation,” I told myself, “will
never occur again ; and if it were to occur, you
will not be there to see. What is your life
but a newspaper that endureth a little time and
then vanisbeth away ? Out of all possible Corona-
tions in iill possible existences in all possible
worlds, there is given to you just this one Corona-
tion to write about. Now, if ever, you are to
compose a jewel of an article five paragraphs long,
that shall on the stretched forefinger” etc., ill
fact.
Yet i did not regard myself as a parasite upon
King Edward. In a temporal way, to be sure, he
is a very great flea indeed T -afid I a very small
one; but then, he could only be crowned, and I
could write about his coronation. Austin Dobson
declares that
All passes. Art alone
Enduring stays to us ;
The
(I forget what; but he meant my coronation
article),
—outlasts tire throne, —
The Coin, Tiberius.
Therefore, considering King Edward sub specie
ceternitatis, as a peg to hang my fame upon, I con-
ceived that he might easily become my debtor.
A.nd —— well, I was satisfied with my oppor-
tunity. I was satisfied with King Edward. He
would not cut- so romantic a figure as the young
King of* Spain, hut I thought he would do. I
thought it would be my own fault if I did not
write my article about him. In a way, indeed, I
was grateful to him. 1 felt that if he knew me,
and if ho knew Australia, and if he knew what
Daley hjp,d taught me about “green fire,” he
would not grudge being crowned.
So I set sail; I arrived ; I found a boarding-
house with a bathroom ; and at five o’clock on my
first Loudon morning, even in the very thrill anc
moment of waking, 1 was admonished of an Omen
and lay expectant.
The next moment I saw My Coronation Article.
It defiled before me like the procession it com-
memorated ; and I understood at once that it was
written symbolically, so that the varying rhythm
and colour of its sentences typified perfectly the
character and movement of the processional items.
That is the peculiar virtue of the Symbol Sibyl:
she decants Eternity into a single instant, and
from one grain of sand decomposes Infinity. So
my Article, as it marched magnificently past,
ceased to be a mere assemblage of words and
images, and became the Coronation Procession
itself. Through the grey streets, between the
hedges of the hustling populace, past the surging
stands it moved, with a noise of men and horses
trampling, and with glimpses of sudden glory that
flooded my brain with scarlet. So complete was
the reproduction that jn the Strand I saw a seat-
contractor standing gloomily beside a row of
benches priced at ten guineas and filled at ten
shillings, and heard what he was going to say to
his wife when he went home. (Unpublishable.)
I remember quite well the style in which my
Article was written. Sometimes it had scin-
tillating facets that suggested G. W. Steevens,
and sometimes there were abrupt dashes of colour
that reminded me of Stephen Crane ; but chiefly
it came sonorous from the soul of that-mighty-
mouthed inventor of harmonies, Thomas De
Quincey. Nothing, so gentle as its fluting in the
piano passages ; and when it rose crescendo I
thought of the voioe of the great Lord Romney
thundering at the close of BeaucJiamp’s ( areer.
It was gay, delicate, audacious a? Max Beerbohm.
It was stern, acrid, undissuadable as Walt Whit-
man. Now it held the singing sweetness of Keats,
and now the reverberant majesty of Marlowe. In
brief,'it was a masterpiece ; and I wondered if it
would do for The Bulletin.
After thart (and this is the kernel of my explana-
tion) —after that—well, after that I lost it.
lor, just as the procession reached the Abbey—
and, of course, in virtue of its symlwlic quality,
it passed in much less time than I have taken to
tell about it—l grieve to say that I lost control of
myself. I knew the importance of holding the
vision like a brimming vase until I reached the
table and my pen; and I never moved,-scarcely
breathed, until we came to the Abbey. I lmd no
ticket for the Abbey ; and my idea was to let the
procession pass inside, and then get gently out of
bed and write while everybody was engaged with
the Archbishop of Canterbury. Then I would
have been ready to take up the vision again when
they ali came out.
Unluckily, just as f was raising myself cau-
tiously on an elbow, I saw Barton, and I cheered,
cheered lustily—" Hooray ! ” and " Hooray ! ”
again. _ I did not cheer Barton; I cheered
Australia. The warren of London and all the
pallid, driven, rabbit-faces disappeared ; and I
was back among brown-necked men in a land of
infinite purple vistas, where the npllion-varied
eucalypts lean one to another to croon seorets
old before Britain was born. And I cheered with
all my heart and soul and strength.
Then I heard alarmed noises in the next bed-
room, and knew that my coronation article was
gone. In a flash, it had vanished utterly. How
I hunted for it ! how L tried to recapture its first,
fine, careful rapture ! I sat; I walked ; I tried
stimulants and the Turkish hath. All vainly.
At some instants, 1 felt very close, very warm ; I
seemed- to know that if 1 could remember the
first- sentence the remainder would follow. That
first sentence ! —it was as unattainable as the song
the Sirens sang.
I have little more to add. When the messenger
came from Buckingham Palace for the copy, I
told him exactly how things stood, and asked for
time. They made some excuse, and postponed
the Coronation. In the end, I had to say that I
had lost hope of recovering my article, and could
not condescend to makeshifts* It was a great
blow, and the Coronation was a very inferior
affair in comparison with what it might have
been.
Of course, I am glad that King Edward is better
now. For myself, lam inconsolable.
Iln Rio Grande 1 s Last . Race, and Other Verses,
A. B. Paterson has collected another series of
rhymes after the Australian’s own heart. These
newly-gathered pieces (many of them already
familiar from newspaper publication, and already
prized) make no higher literary pretensions
than their elder brothers ; but they are equally
li tted to earn the honest, hearty popularity won
by The Man from Snowy River. In hand 'and
spirit “The Banjo” is still the same, and he has
gained greater command of the rhymer’s trade
while preserving his vigor hardly impaired.
As before, we have humour and sentiment alter-
nating, and Paterson develops a strain of piety
which chimes curiously, but not unnaturally, with
the rhetoric of “the Man from Ironbark.”
What will it profit that with tears or laughter
Our watch we keep ?
Beyond it all there lies the Great Hereafter !
Thank God for sleep 1
For, at the last, beseeching Ohrist to save us,
We turn with deep
Heart-felt thanksgiving unto God, who gave us
The Gift of Sleep.
But it is in the old alliance of humour and horse
that Paterson is most successful. No other local
writer can get such twinkling, genial fun from the
play of fancy over four hoofs and a hide—the
I Austral microcosm. And the verse runs with such
a swing, too—as in “ Father Riley’s Horse ”
So they buried Andy Began, and they buried him to
rights,
In the graveyard at the back of Kiley’s Hill;
There were five-and-twenty mourners, who had five-and-
twenty fights,
Till the very boldest fighters had their fill.
There were fifty horses racing from the graveyard to the
pub,
And their riders flogged each other all the while.
And the lashios of the liquor! And the lavins of the
grub ■!
Oh, poor Andy went to rest in proper style !
One eould not be.more graphic.
And indeed Paterson’s talent would be ex-
ceptional anywhere. “A Disqualified Jockey’s
Story,” for example, in one of the metres that
Leland popularised, is a jewel of observation and
description. “The Banjo” has the virtue that
many a historian vainly covets—the virtue of
seeing life and incident with his country men’s
own eyes, and of writing as they would write
if they had his gift of expression. And the
melody is often true and catching: in “Song of
the Artesian Water,” for example—
But it’s hark ! the whistle’s blowing with a wild, exultant
blast,
And the boys are niadly cheering, for they’ve struck the
flow at last,
And it’s rushing up the tubing from four thousand feet
below,
Till it spouts above the casing in a million-gallon flow.
And it's down, deeper down
Oh, it comes from deeper down ;
It is flowing, ever flowing, in a free, unstinted measure
From the silent, hidden places where the old earth hides
her treasure—
Where the old earth hides her treasure deeper down..
The new volume is cordially recommended
to the Australians whom it typically repre-
sents in phrase arid sentiment. The publishers
are Messrs. Angus and Robertson, Sydney arid
Melbourne.
Every student of Australian history and geo-
graphy, and of the story of Australian exploration
(writes F.J.8.), will feel grateful toErnest Favene,
for the work (modestly called a “compilation”)
published in “ Brooks’s Australian School 1 Series.”
“ The Geographical Development of Australia” is
much more than a compilation. It possesses
features of marked originality.
Australia is shaped like a saucer, with—at vary-
ing distances from the coast—a rim which has been
called the Great Divide. Had the continent been
shaped like a dish-cover, with a mountain range,
by way of handle, in the centre, the problem of
droughts and deserts would never have confronted
us. The Great Divide, beginning in South Aus-
tralia, practically annulates the entire continent,
with the exception of the desert bounded by the
Great Australian Bight. This creates the coastal
river system. On the western side of the Great
Divide is the Murray River system. Between
this and the Macdonnell Ranges lies the salt lake
system ; and, stretching westward for hundreds
of miles to the head waters of the coastal rivers of
Western Australia, is the vast riderless area of
desert. These physical facts are admirably
brought out by a map designed by Favene on
a new plan.
The feature of the book is, however, the de-
velopment of geographical knowledge, hand-in-
hand with the progress of settlement consequent
on exploration. This side of our history is
illustrated by a series of maps, dated from 1808 to
1888 at 10-year intervals. In these maps the un-
known area is coloured black ; the known area is
picked out in white, which, in the earlier maps, is
a very insignificant quantity indeed ; that of
1808 showing only that part of N.S.W. extending
from the Hunter to the Cataract and taking in the
Hawkesbury, while Port Phillip appears as a
mere white pin-head in the surrounding black ;
and these, with Western Port, St. Vincent’s Gulf,
and King George’s Sound summarise the geo-
graphical knowledge of the period. From this
stage the white portion steadily encroaches on
the black, till, in the 1888 map, we find the latter
represented only by sundry patches in the rainless
and riverless area of Western Australia. The
intermediate maps showsuccessivelyand distinctly
the work of the various explorers, from Cunning-
ham and Hume to Forrest, Warburton and Giles.
The work of geographical development is now
practically finished, since, despite the remaining
black patches aforesaid, everything of value to do
has been done.
One cannot say precisely what is the clwtrm of
Henslowe's Annual, which (for the fourth time)
rears its head proudly above Australia. IV
literary matter is as undistinguished as ever ; the
editor’s own drawings are as wooden as ever ; and
the other illustrators have certainly not excelled
themselves, however they have surpassed their
patron. Yet there i s a charm—vague, indefinable,
oozing, like a damp smell from a dark church-
yard. Possibly it exudes from the verse of
Edward Hyacinth Tottenham, M.A.—verse like
this:
THE FOREST.
Life is a forest dark,
Wild, wild is the breeze,
Fitfully skimpering adown
. . . Adown thro’ the trees.
Life is a forest dark,
Wild, wild is the breeze.
But there's a shimmering beyond !. . .
. . . Beyond . . . thro’ the trees.
Edward Hyacinth Tottenham, M.A.
Does the charm come when Hyacinth is skimpering
adown ? or when he is shimmering beyond ? This
is irritating, for one cannot say precisely.
Since Zola’s death it has been disclosed that he
had two natural children by a Mme. Rosereau—
Mine. Zola bore him none. But, as happens in
liberal France, the wives legal and illegal met in
amity over their husband's body.
S.O.C. desires to know why, “of all the news-
papers, magazines; etc., who at different times
criticise Marie Corelli’s works, few, if any, have
ever a word of real unprejudiced praise to say in
her favour.” It is because most of the newspapers
and magazines are conducted by men, which are
jealous that a woman should possess the most
wonderful literary talent of the age. Thus the
editor of Eng. Gentleivoman, the other day,
meanly printed a letter that Miss Corelli wrote
to him, complaining because her name was left
out of a list of persons admitted to an enclosure
where King Edward was. He knew that be could
never learn to write like Miss Corelli, so lie per-
mitted it to appear that this marvellous, romancer
has the instincts of a snob.
Arthur a’Beckett, assistant editor of London
Punch , tells interviewers that lie sleeps only three
and a-half hours per day. Punch , of course, sleeps
the other twenty and a-half hours.
Melville and Mullen publish Australian Echoes,
a book of verses by John Mathew (taken to be the
Rev. John Mathew who wrote that excellent
study of the aborigines, Eaijlehawk and Crow).
The echoes, alas ! are uninspired and uninspiring
—prosaic, virtuous sentiments sheathed in
rhythms of antique buckram.
The Bookfellow has pleasure in recommend-
ing to book-buyers the long-established house of
Geo. Robertson and Co. Prdp. Ltd., Sydney.
The firm’s advertisement appears on this page,
and that in itself is a recommendation. Orders
for any book or magazine, new or old, may be
forwarded ; and the staff takes pains and pleasure
in answering queries. Especial attention is given
to teachers and librarians. And this is an honest
puff.
Cutcliffe Hyne’s Honour of Thieves, dropped
into publicity in 1895, made no particular splash—
though it contained the first sketch of admirable
Captain Kettle. In 1902, re-issued under the
new title of The Little Red Captain: An Early
Adventure of Capt. Kettle, the book finds sale and
praise. This conversion of backwater into flood-
tide shows how the modern publisher leads on to
fortune. 4
In Roman Jesuitism’s Pollution of Ethics (a 24
pp. pamphlet issued by W. K. Thomas and Co.,
Adelaide) W. A. Magarey tells us interesting
things. For example: about “the Capture of
the Press” by Jesuits :
. Not an open capture, for the influence of a paper
known to be Roman is, in Protestant countries, at once
discounted. It is a subtle manning of the reporting and
setting-up staffs of important newspapers with lay-
Jesuits, who,, in obedience to their secret or implied
instructions, will, wherever possible, omit, misreport,
or ridicule anything and anybody opposed to the aims
of the Order or of the Roman Church ; and, on the other
hand, introduce, report fully, or glorify anything and
anybody favouring those aims. It is all so intangible that
even the editors and proprietors may not perceive ; but
the influence upon the public mind is there always. That
great puhlic mind whose daily food is newspaper.
This evil, says Magarey, is rampant in Australia.
One desires to know where? when? precisely how ?
An ounce of clear proof is worth a ton of vague
assertion. W. A. Magarey’s method is, generally
speaking, a method of vague assertion throughout
his pamphlet. And, like the other religious con-
troversialists, he abstains from giving references.
There is no sense in quoting doctrines of horror at
third or tenth-hand, and attributing them to
Escobar, Lfguori and company. We want chap-
ter and the original editions ; and
with so much zeal, religious pamphleteers might
spare a little piins. It is doubtful whether even
Cardinal Moran will think Mr. Magarey worth
replying to. (And this par., anyway, is written
by a healthy pagan.)
Under the title The Earthen Floor, E. J. Brady
issues from Grafton Grin offioe some seventy
pages of verse gathered since publication of The
Ways of Many Waters. The new book cannot be
said to rank as highly as the old ; but' it contains
some excellent pieces and stanza?. Brady’s best
work is still done in the nautical vein which has
taught us to prize him. The blind sailor’s regrets
are effectively voiced, fqr example—
If I moon out here on the cliffs and think, my face to the
open sea,
’T is only because of the things I love that throng in
the dark to me :
’T is only because of a world I knew, a world that was
wholly mine ;
It had three parts water and one part land, and plenty of
teak and pine ... V;™. ,
They are cracking it on up coast, I ’ll bet. ’T is a rattling
tops’l breeze;
I can see the gloss of their wetted sides awash with the
clinging seas ;
I can catch the gleam of the Baltic pine with the caulking
lines between ; ,
And I know the rig of the yards of Tyne from the build
of Aberdeen.
How the smell of it sets my heart to beat! There’s never
a garden rose
With a scent like that of the salt sou’-east when a ten-
knot monsoon blows ...
Till I hear the churn of the bow-cut waves ; the kiss of
her cuddling dip;
Till I’m live and whole and a king again on the deck of
my bonny ship. ...
And “ Otahai, ” too, comes with the fragrance of
frangipanni on a tropical beach, the murmur of
tropical tides lap-lapping under the moon.
Then the: leaves like lace hung down
From the sleeping palm-tree’s crown ;
Then we heard tha sea-birds call,
Heard the night-tide rise and fall—
Loving, dreaming, you and I,
On the beach at Otahai. . .
The price of the booklet is Is. 6d.
PUBLICATIONS RECEIVED.
The Conquest op Charlotte, a Bomance, by David S.
Meldrum. Blackwood ; London. [B9B dullpp.]
Broken Hill Illustrated. 16 pp. photos, by G. F.
Jenkinson, pub. Thos. Forsyth and Co., Broken Hill.
[Well done: an imaginative eye can see even the lead
fumes. ]
Phases of the Land and Labour Question, by A. J.
Ojfilvy. London : Land Nationalisation Society,
128 pp. [“ A Tasmanian colonist possessed of many
broad acres ’’ and the writer’s itch wrestles
laboriously with political economy .]
A.G.B.
' I
THE LATEST BOOKS AT_
>. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Diploeks, Goods Transport, Bs, postage Gd.
Maunders, Astronomy Without a Telescope, 6s, p. 6d.
Millar, Mid-Eighteenth Century Literature, 6s, p. 6d.
Clifford, Woodside Farm, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. Gd.
Black Shadows, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Broughton (Rhoda), Lavina, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Adams, Confession of a Wife, 2s 6d & 3s Gd, p. 6d.
Sergeant, Barbara’s Money, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Saintsbury, History of Criticism, Yol. 11, 245, p. Is 6d.
Morrison, An Australian in China (ch. edt.), 6s, p. Bd.
Stephens, Studies of a Biographer, Yols. 3 & 4,125, p. Is.
Winter (John Strange), UncleOharlie, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Gallon (Tom), The Charity Ghost, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Blake, A Lady’s Honor, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
7 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) &at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
The Bulletin's Popular Publications.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Fifth Thousand. Cloth, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
THE BULLETIN RECITER
By Eighty Bulletin Writers. Sixth Thousand. Cloth, Illustrated, 55. ; postage, 4d.
ON OUR SELECTION
By A. H. Davis (“ Steele Rudd ”). Twelfth Thousand. Cloth, Illustrated, 65.; postage, Bd.
CASTRO’S LAST SACRATIENT
And Other Stories, by Albert Dorrington. Second Thousand. Cloth, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 7d.
FAIR GIRLS AND GRAY HORSES
With Other Verses, by Will H. Ogilvie. Ninth Thousand. Cloth, with Portrait, 55.; post. sd.
AT DAWN AND DUSK
Poems by Victor J. Daley. Third Thousand. Cloth, with Portrait, 55. ; postage, 4d.
Obtainable from all Booksellers, or from the Publishers—
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd., 214 6eorge=St, Sydney, Australia.
Hudson’s Eumenthoi Jujubes
OUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(REGISTERED).
zp toi
* J --
IM TIMS, Is. 6d.
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR
Cr. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE ; and FELTON, GRIMWADJE &. CO., MELBOURNE AGENTS.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are heluful in Indigestion and /Dyspepsia.


WOOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and GO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
SYDNEY.
Kangaroo,
Wallaby,
Rabbit,
Opossum.
SEND ALL SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY,
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. 8tor88: PYRMONT.
Sole Oommlasion. 3 Per Cent. to tlie Grower
T . m-m -»'• «ra rl Hma.ll Alltee.
HEALTH GIVING,
ENO’S
‘FRUIT
SALT.’
COOLING,
REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING.
S. FREEMAN SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECf A LTIESi
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
icllHtH CRACK
5806
5807
CBB
5808
NOR BURN.
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
OUARANTEE.—ShouId
New One
Quality
any of eur Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Barn •
will be Exchanged for it immediately on Application.
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, le. 20.
not better ixx a Q-uinea 3Pipe.
c. 8.8.
'C.8.8.
0.8.8. Pipe, Sterling Silver Mount, 2/6
0.8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, with Ster-
ling Silver Mount, polished Vulcanite
Mouthpiece, in Morocco Leather
Case, 4/* each.
0.8.8. Meerchaum Pipe, guaranteed
genuine, Sterling Silver Screw, Best
Quality Mouthpiece, Morocco Gold-
lined Case, 21/- each.
0.8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, Sterling
Silver Mounted Him and Band, in
Morocco Gold-lined Leather Case,
8/6 each.
G. 8.8. Presentation Companion, con-
taining two Silver Mounted, hand-
finished Pipes, Superior Quality
Mouthpieces, Bed Morocco Gold-
lined Case, 16/6 each.
0.8.8.
G. 8.8.
RICHMOND,VA.
TOBACCO
Dark and
Bright
IS THE BEST.
Price, ss. lb., Post Free, all States,
HAVING secured the Sole Agency for the
above brand of AMERICAN TOBACCO, we
have very much pleasure in. recommending
same to our Clients and the Smoking Public. We
feel sure that one trial will be sufficient to con-
vince Smokers that “ SOLID SHOT ” is the finest
Tobacco on the market. Splendid aroma, and
does not bite the tongue.
Save “Solid Shot” Tobacco Tags.
For Each 100 you will receive from the
Agents, Tree, one only C. 8.8. Briar
Pipe and Pocket KniTe.
WHOLESALE PRICE LIBTB OH APPLICATION.
MICK SIMMONS, Havmarket, Sydney, n.s.w.
A
The dr. McLaughlin co
85 King-street, Sydney,
167 E Swanston-st., Melbourne.
DO YOU WANT TO BE STRONG?
Then stop filling your stomach with nasty drugs that stimulate you for the and leave you worse off
than ever. Use Nature’s Remedy, but be sure that you don’t use drugs with it. S^FOR^THE
is the OBSOLETE and EXPENSIVE METHOD; you are charged from 20 TO|so GUINEAS bOR
DRUG AUXILIARY, and have uselessly wasted your money. If you are (weak- you must get back what
you have lost. Electricity adds fuel to your system, strengthens the nerves,; and blood. I here is only
one effective way to get it.
DR. MCLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
gives it to vou while you sleep. It pumps new nerve force, new energy, new ambition,\ new life, into your every
tissue, and cures in three months after the failure of all other methods. It is cheap, effective, certain and you can
not afford to do without it. We are the only Specialists who use only Electricity, and do not sell Belts as so much
scrap-iron. £lOOO REWARD if you can not feel and regulate the current from our Belt.
Lucinda-street, Woolloongabba, Brisbane.
Dear Sirs,—Just a few lines to let you know I am much
better, and that I have had great relief from your Electric
Belt. I will be glad to recommend it to any of my fiiends.
The pains have left my back, and my nerves are a lot steadier.
I now do my work with pleasure.
I remain, yours faithfully,
Ed. BENNETT.
\Angel Terrace, Coolgardie, W.A.
Dear Sirs,—l got your Bdib after all the doctors had given
me up -after all the hospitals had passed me as an incurable.
I had Sciatica so bad that neither work nor walk. I
wore the Belt two nights and the pain stopped. In a week I
had no pain and began to mehid. In a month I was out again
prospecting, and I would like 1 to meet a man more grateful to
you than I am. { I don’t thinkll ever will. P. VV. KELLY.
FREE BOOK.— Write and get our free book; it is beautifully illustrated, and shows how our Belt cures,
without using drugs. Our testimonials come from every part of Australia, and you should doubt no longer. Wli
WILL NOT SELL YOU A BELT UNLESS WE (JAN CURE YOU. ■ Book sent, post paid, to any address.
DUTY PAID ON ALL BELTS. Write or call to-day for Free Consultation and Advice.
CHRISTMAS ——
KODAK
xs -A-
Most Useful Present.
All Prioes, 6s. to £l9los. Send for Art Catalogue.
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
To be obtained of all Dealers, and of
KODAK LIMITED, 284 Collins-st., Melbourne
Please Mention this Paper.
Practical and
Economical
Oldsmobile is the most
practical and economical gaso-
line runabout you can buy.
It can be delivered here for
a very reasonable price. It
sells in America for $650.00 and the ocean freight is not large.
No experience is required to run it —the construction is simple —
no intricate machinery, no boiler to burn out.
Oldsmobile
is almost noiseless, attains a speed of 25 miles an hour —goes 30
miles on one gallon of gasoline—climbs steep hills, runs over any
passable road —is always ready for instant use —economical to operate —
starts at ease from the seat —5,000 are now in daily use.
Write us at once and we will send you a handsome descriptive book,
and make you a price delivered at your nearest port for quick delivery.
Agents wanted in unoccupied foreign territory.
Olds Motor Works, Detroit, Mich., U. S. A.


General Electric
Incandescent Lamps.
THE EDISON LAMP
Absolutely
THE BEST!
Annual Sales, 18,000,000.
After Competitive Tests, 63,750
were purchased by the Melb.
City Council.
LONG LIFE. HIGH EFFICIENCY.
Large Stock always on hand*
■ j ■•. •
AUSTRALIAN
CEDEIU EtECTIIC El.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS,
Melbourne and Sydney.
Motors* Dynamos* Steam Dynamo Sets, etc.,
also in Stock.
Second
Edition..
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Harry Morant
His ’Ventures,
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
Free .
Y By FRANK RENAR. \f
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney
What the PIANOLA does.
THE ... .
PIANOLA. .
enables you to
play your piano
although you
may never have
played one note
in your life.
This would
mvms
' ■
A ' '
A
§
1. 5i
t A
V
seem impassible, but, nevertheless it is true.
If you will write us we will mail you free
a catalogue explaining how.
Ask for Catalogue “ B.”
The price of the Pianola is £65, on
moderate monthly payments, or £6O for
prompt cash*
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.
SYDNEY: 323 GEORGE-ST. MELBOURNE: JB5-JB7 COLLINS-ST.
V
AERTEX CELLULAR FABRIC
is the ideal form of body covering, possessing all the neces-
sary hygienic qualities, and being also most comfortable and
of attractive appearance, and for those reasons is recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty wherever introduced.
Aertex Cellular Underwear is a Sure Preventative against Chills
Cellular Day Shirts*
Silk neckbands and soft wrists.
White and Self Colors, 4s to 7s 6d
Fancy Designs, 7s 6d to 9s 6d.
Cellular Neglige Shirts.
Boft fronts of plain or pleated
Cellular Cloth; wrists, French
Print, Linen, or Cellular. Iteoom-
mended for Golf, Cycling, Ac.
White body, 7s fid; colored, 8s 9d
Cellular Dress Shirt.
Fitted best Belfast Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 0.8. or 0.F., one stud.
Cellular Cotton Body—
-68 6d to 8s 6d
Cellular Lisle Body-
Os 6d and 10s 0d
Cellular Short-Front Shirt
for evary-day wear.
Open behind, 2in. linen wrists—
-6s 6d, 6s 6d.
Open front or behind, square
ouSCs— 6s 6d, 7s Qd
1*
AERTEX
Cellular Combinations.
AERTEX
Cellular Nightdresses.
White Ootton, trimmed
Embroidery .. ..9 0
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery 90 0
White Lisle, prettily
trimmed, fine Torchon.. 19 0
mm
Aertex Gelltilar Chemises,
White Ootton, trimmed Embroidery,
Bs. White Lisle, heavily trimmed
Real Torehon, 14s Cd and 10s 6d.
Acrtex Cellular Slip-Bodices,
High or Low Necks. All sizes
to 30in ; large sizes, extra.
White Lisle, trimmed Torchon, 6s 6d and 8s 6d.
Send for Illustrated Price List—Post Free.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.,
sole Agent* 73 & 75 King-St., Sydney.
Cellular Tennis Shirt.
With Collar and Pocket. The most
comfortable for all out-door sports
of all kinds. A great variety of
patterns stocked.
Plain Colors, 4s. 6d. to 7s. 6d.
Fancy Designs, 7s. Cd. to 11s. Bd.
Aertex Cellular Corsets.
Fitted real Greenland Whalebone.
8. d.
01 Ecru 18in. deep .. ..15 6
C 2 ~ long waist, 14£in deep 16 6
M White Cotton, 14in., nar-
row spoon busk .. .. 21 0
G White Cotton, 14iin., with
Elastic Supporter .. 24 6
F Ecru, Riding or Cycling.. 12 6
V Cycling, Boned French
Horn, Elastic Hips .. 15 0
D 1 same shape as 01, Watch-
spring Steels .. ..86
TATTERSALL’S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
NOW OPEN.
PERTH CUP—Perth, JW.A., Dec. 30 1902 ... ... 25,000 at 5
BRIGHTON PLATE—Brighton, Tas., Jan. 1,1903 25,000 at 5
HOBART CUP—Elswick, Tas., Jan 21,1903 ... 50,000 at 5
LAUNCESTON CUP—Launceston, Tas., Jan. 28/’O3 50,000 at 5
NEWMARKET H’CAP—Flemington, Vic., Feb. 28 100,000 at 5
AUSTRALIAN CUP—Flemington, Vic., March 3 50,000 at 5
DONCASTER H’CAP—Randwick, N.S.W., April 11 25,000 at 5
SYDNEY CUP—Randwiek, N.S.W., April 13,1903 25,000 at 5
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“TATTERSALL ”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any fri.-nd or
acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the application and
securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please request'
Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERV CO. doing business with Tasmania.


“ We are old friends, this bottle and
I. We have known each other for over
sixty years. When a boy I was always
taking cold, but a few doses of this
medicine would at once set me right.
“ When a young man I had a weak
throat and weak lungs. My friends
feared some lung trouble, but
Ayers
Cherry Pectoral
greatly strengthened my throat, cleared
up my voice, and took away the ten-
dency for every cold to go to my lungs.
“ Last year I had a bad attack of la
grippe. The only medicine I took was
from this bottle, and I came out all
right. I know it’s good, too, for
asthma, bronchitis, pneumonia,croup.”
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of theml Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Maas., U.S.A.
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES: Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5,6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address: 110 WILLIAM-
ST., cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
Cable trams will stop at door. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hairwork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
A GIFT FOR THE LADIES.
We make this
: SPECIAL OFFER
to Advertise our
Ostrich
Tips.
5/-
Thb Bunch,
Worth 10/6.
TWO VERY SUPERIOR TIPS, with
OSPREYS, in Black, White or Cream.
Post Free. Send Postal Notes.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Bourke & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
FLUID
OIL
CRUDE FLUID
POWDER
EMBROCATION
80AP8
DISINFECTORS
INHALERS
FUMIGATORS
m
HSfNFECTINfi
FLUID.
it-
COLORLESS
FRACRANT
NON*
POISONOUS
DOES NOT
STAIN
KILLS ALL
DISEASE
GERMS
OXYGENATES
THE AIR.
Sulphur Candles - \ KINGZETT'S
Formic Fumigators / PATENTS.
"HOW TO DISINFECT " Book Free.
The “SANITAS ” CO., Ltd.,
Bethnal Creen, LONDON, E.
fits cured
From the first dose of Ozerlne fits cease. It has cured
nermanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
other remedy had failed. Price 4/6 and I*'
Thousands of Testimonials.
OF ALL CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. NICHOLL, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
» HIGH STREET, BELFAST, IRELAND.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our Own Live Poets.
Shall we dream, and for ever he mourning
Dead bards, and lie down in their dust?
Shall we write, and for ever be scorning
New lyrics that come as-they must ?
We’ve men who are hustling and shoving,
And women still luring and loving
Down South of the line, and disproving
Old dogmas and rules red with rust.
In the boundary-rider’s old whare,
In the night, velvet-soft, silver-starred,
There’s a fellow who’s saying he’s sorry
In verse strong as wine, sweet as nard.
Though his Helicon’s only a billy,
His Pegasus just a bay filly,
He sings (as he grafts) willy-nilly :
A typical Bulletin bard.
If his harp’s not the harp of old singera
Who sang of the Queens of old time,
In the life of to-day there yet lingers
A girl or a kiss worth a rhyme.
If old rules in his verses are broken,
The words, in a younger strain spoken,
Are a dawning new day, and a token
Of a new young Parnassus to olimb.
By the light of a mutton-fat candle,
When the fire in his shanty is low,
A “ ringer ” is chewing the handle
Of a pen in the long night Smoke-oh.
With the rest of the board swapping stories,
“ Contes Drdlatiques ” garnished with “gory’s,
He’s busy transcribing the glories
Of things in the old Overflow.
In the camps and the bush and the gullies
And plains, though your mind is not set
To capture their speech, or too dull is
To fathom their joy and regret,
Some fellows are piling the treasure :
And their message —the pain and the pleasure
They weave into metre at leisure —
Wide songs that are echoing yet.
The swagman finds songs without seeking,
Caught up on the wallaby track ;
They blaze in the musterer’s beacon
On hills in the country out-back.
And the lute of the bush dilettante
Is strung in the blazing grog-shanty—
The drought-land has food for the Dante :
The stockwhip great odes in each crack.
The word wings its way from the choking
Blind spray on the collier a-roll,
Swinging up in the teeth of the smoking
Harsh seas racing down to the Pole.
From eastward and south’ard and nor’ward,
Heard inland or echoing shoreward,
The songs of the live men, flung forward,
Torn up by the roots from the soul.
In the bush and plain, mountain and meadow,
They are building, with keen ringing chords.
Their city, undimmed by the shadow
Of alien lyrical lords.
Their songs of a younger new fashion
Are fresh love, hot labor and passion :
They are with us—their lips are not ashen —
We have found a new creed in their words !
ML.
M. CORMAC.
Our Song-Birds.
Our mimic birds their cries have caught
From Nature’s speechful strife,
From rev el and corroboree,
Wild laugh of savage life;
One minstrel bird alone we boast
Who learnt his song from heaven’s host.
Out on the fringes of the bush
The gaudy parrots cry,
And cockatoos with crests erecb
Scream hate, and grace defy ;
The whip-bird’s whistle cuts the air,
The jackass laughs while men despair.
And though the notes of gentler birds
Attend our lonely way,
Till comes the magpie, carolling,
W e hear no perfect lay ;
He hath no heart-outpouring trill,
But how his note is musical!
A chorister, in surplice clad,
He seemeth always near,
And pipes his joyous canticle
Through all the changeful year—
He ushers in the dawn of day,
And makes the hour of twilight gay.
Our bards, rough-fashioned like our birds,
Their first impulse have caught
From Nature in her sterner moods,
When man is held as naught;
The rage of flood, and drought, and fire,
The lonely life, sad themes inspire.
With brighter days, and larger hopes,
Our bards with open eyes
Will see and love the beautiful —
O land of wrathful cries !
“ Weird melancholy ” dost thou know,
But thou shalt have thy VAllegro.
V.
ANDREW SARD.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strifi
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirt;
are highly recommended.
S 3- per Half-dozen, free by pout throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS BRISBANE
Australian Mutual Provident Society
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Next Distribution of the Profits at
31st December, 1902.
Policies issued before the close of this year wilt share in the Bonus to be then allotted.
The Cash Bonus divided among the participating policy holders for the single year 1901 was £538,725,
being the largest amount ever allotted by the (Society in one year. (All bonuses vest immediately
on policies attaining a duration of two years. ~ , , _ j
Persons desirous of effec ting assurances with the A.M.P. Society should note the above carefully, ana
send in their applications early, either direct or through any of the Society’s Agents, so as to reap
the benefit of this year’s bonus.
Directors—Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman ; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq • Senator J T WALKKR; I. Abbott, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; F. E. Winciicombb, Esq., M.P.
fjpnprol Manager and Actuary—Richard Teece, F.1.A., F. 8.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 lOe.
H. Hillier,
180 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
Send for a
Catalogue.
Went Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles.
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £BlOB.
arven Sulky Wheels Tyred, 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send (or Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
■m
I
ms
install
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales—
M. RUTTY & GO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia—
Hart, Lawrenee A Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson A Son,
Fremantle
Queensland —
Thos. Brown A Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Bhllp A Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania—
Watohorn Bros.,
Hobart
John MoKenzle A 0o„
Launceston.
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin A Co.
Bunedln, Wellington
and Chrletohnrob.
MODEL 1900 SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE
IS rifle sells at a price within reach of almost every-
body’s pocketbook, but it is made with the same care and
exactness as Winchester rifles that cost five times as
much. The name “Winchester” on this rifle is a
guarantee in itself of its quality. The Model 1900 is a
hammerless take-down, and can be taken apart easily
and quickly. It is made with an 18-inch round barrel,
fitted with open front and rear sights. It shoots .22 Short and .22
Long Rim-Fire cartridges, and Bullet Breech caps. These cartridges cost
so little that one can afford to shoot as many times as he likes as often
as he likes. Some makes of .22 Caliber rifles are a few pence cheaper,
but they are a great deal cheaper in quality than they are in price.
We don’t try to see how cheap we can make this rifle, but how good.
FOR SALE BY ALL IRONMONGERS
WB STOCK ALL WINCHESTER GOODS.
M'LEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd.
ELIZABETH ST., fIELBOURNE ; GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List o-f Tricks—Free.
PLAYS
French’s Acting Edition.
Rare Books
French Novels
Books
for
th.e
Married
I'xtra Special Catalogue of
Hooks Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
all Chemists
ALL l
<3-0033 HAIR FOR
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Deoay, Promoting the Growth, and sriving Lustre
to the Hair. If veur Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. ' Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
BSF For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROM’ ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
gW For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGIN A;
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & 00.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASEB OF THE HAIR,
Sold by all Chemists, and by WATKINS A MACKAY, Chemists, Queen Street, Brisbane ; Mr. GORDON, 92 George
Street, Rockhampton, Queensland, and
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.


We teach in 3 Lessons of 10 minutes
each sufficient for a pupil to write his
own notes, in a month to correspondence
speed, and in three months to Reporting
Speed.
NEW SHORTHAND
(REGD.)
21 Lessons for 2 Is* to Completion to end of December only*
From January Ist* 1903* the fees will be 21 Lessons for 42s*
See Page 21.
Payable ss. the first lesson, Ib. each for the
next 16, and the remaining four lessons free.
The ss. fee may be paid by a Half-a-Crown
at the first and second lessons, then Ib. a
lesson to follow.
HENNESSY’S
C THREE STAR
BRANDY
Beware of
Cheap
Grain Spirits
Flavored
and
Colored
to
Imitate
Cognac
Brandy.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
byf TE'/vi
c Kak^
s
M
Va
m
y &
Si
@2
8
*0
THE
‘PLUM’
THE
PLUM
/^.ENTLEMEN.— This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, ringi
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind ol
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, hiving had them in use for a number of years, can testily to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The "PLUM" RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7* li
"RAZOLES” UCHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
/Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 108 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Oase, 21a.
I Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful oase, 30a.
Registered and sent Post Free to ant part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 Georgre-st., Sydney
Hotelkeepers, make your own
JERATED WATERS
THE “AUSTRAL” AERATED WATER MACHINE occupies
only Four Feet square, will produce ICO dozen BOTTLES
per day of Finest Waters (Lemonade, Ginger Ale, Sodawater,
&c.) at a COST BELOW FOURPENCE PER DOZEN. These machines
are now working in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and
South Africa.
Write for Prices and Particulars.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
ECKERSLEY ANP SONS,
214-216 Queen Street, Melbourne.
One Yard Wide!
Twenty-four Yards Long!
Ruberoid is made in four thicknesses, called “plies,” but only one quality (the Best) and one color (Grey).
The thickest (3-ply) is a shade under an eighth of an inch thick. All plies must be laid over some kind
of a foundation, such as close boarding, 3m. by lin. battens, or 36m. x 3m. x 16 gauge galvanised wire
netting. 'Painting is not necessary, but is recommended at the end of 18 to 24 months. If used according
to our recommendations, Ruberoid will make the face of every user beam with satisfaction. Genuine
Ruberoid Roofing, properly used, will “ look well,” “ wear well,” and give excellent satisfaction for many
years in this or in any other climate.
CAUTION! Be sure you get the GENUINE.
If in doubt, write direct to AGENTS:—
Fremantle, W.A.
J. M. Ferguson, Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
A. W. Sandford & Co.
Melbourne, Vic.
Brooks, Robinson & Co,
Launceston, Tas.
Hedeey Button.
Wellington, N.Z.
James W. Jack.
. RICH & CO., Limited,
D RISBANE.
SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 23.—N0. 1193.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 27, 1902.
Prick 0d
A FEW CHRISTMAS CARDS
I. Gratuitous Sandwich Men. A free advt. for the hat-trade. II. Christmas “Waits.” They may have to wait for some time III. Revised
“Relief” Map of Australia. IV. The Last Man (Australian). V. The Commonwealth Standing Army. VI. Breaking up of the Drought.
VII. A HALO BUILT FOR TWO. An Ecclesiastical Christmas Card dedicated to Cardinal Moran and Pope Dill Macky. VIII. The Common-
wealth High Court. An august body, if you like, but—puzzle : to find the head.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians,**
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS AFTER
Ist NOVEMBER , 1902
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 013 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the ’‘Correspondence’’ column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that ive
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To A mu,tours in Illaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interestin'i photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgale Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal ; Solomon
and Wilson, 22 llout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and' Co., Durban ; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Givelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon.— Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.- Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver.
B.C.
Hong Kong. brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Wanking Road, Shanghai.
7^
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 27, 1902.
The Murray-Darling Irrigation Problem.
The first Australian Government has a hard
row to hoe. It took up the work of adminis-
tration when the provincial hatreds and
jealousies of the six States were fresh and
raw, when each one was still full of the idea
that the union was made for its special and
exclusive benefit, and when the only way to
really and wholly satisfy any one was to con-
fiscate the goods and chattels of at least two
others. It had to drive six horses abreast—
six horses that had never been in harness
before, and whose fixed idea was that five
should always jib at the same moment. In
future years there will probably be Govern-
ments of far less ability that will drive the
team with far less friction, for the simple
reason that the innate cussedness of the
six will, by that time, be diminished
by custom and the effluxion of time. At
present, as regards a large number of
matters, if the Australian Government
strikes a fair average it doesn’t really please
any State ; if it really pleases one State it
fills at least three with indignation. This
was about the task with which the Barton
Ministry commenced its career :
To construct a purely-revenue tariff which would be
wholly Protectionist.
To build a transcontinental railway which Would go
from Adelaide to Perth, also from Adelaide to Port
Uarwin, likewise from Sydney to Port Darwin—the same
railway.
Not to tax the people heavily ; also to construct out of
revenue works which the States used to build out of
loans, and to return the States as much customs revenue
without border duties as they used to get with them (this
after paying the cost of the Federal administration, and
constructing the aforementioned works, and cutting the
tariff down to zero). b
To enforce the customs law without fear or favor vet
not to prosecute fraudulent importers.
niggers freely 1 ** " Australia policy while admitting
To enforce a law against the importation of contract
labor, jet to let contract labor (especially six hatters) in
without question.
To prevent Federation being accompanied by any
increased burden on the people while the States insist on
spending as much on their State Governments as they
look after ttloSe had tlle whoie business of the country to
To buUd a Federal' capital inside 18 months, on a site
would be wholly satisfactorj 7 to everybody, and to
build it without monej". J
Also to bring down rain, and do many other things
* • . ,
The report of the Murray River Water
Conservation Commission opens up another
pleasing prospect for the Barton Govern-
ment by way of addition to the above list.
The recent drought—if it is “ recent ” —has
convinced Australia that something must be
done to prevent its one big river system
running to waste. It is a big system with
very little water in it, but the need for con-
serving what water there is is all the more
urgent. So the commission was appointed,
and sat down to consider this complicated
situation :
The Murray-Darling' system extends mainly over New
South Wales, yictoria, and South Australia. In wet
seasons it also includes a good part of Queensland, but
of late years Queensland’s share of it has been mostly dry.
N.S.W. and Victoria supply water to the system in
about equal proportions. Victoria supplies most of the
Murray water. N.S.W. supplies part of the Murray
water and a good part of the Darling supply. South
Australia supplies no water—only an outlet. In wet
years an outlet is essential. In very dry years it is merely
a leakage, and so much superfluous frill.
N.S.W. has hitherto claimed sole ownership of the
Murray, and objects (theoretically) to Victoria irrigating
with the Murray waters, or even with the waters of
purely Victorian rivers which flow into the Murray.
N.S.W. has also claimed what is practically the sole
ownership of the Darling, regardless of the fact that
Queensland is at least a casual—sometimes a large—con-
tributor to its waters.
N.S.W. has claimed what is practically the sole right
to use the Murray and Darling waters for irrigation pur-
poses, regardless of what may happen to Victoria and
S.A. . But as there has, so far, been no irrigation on a
sufficiently large scale to make serious trouble, these claims
have been merely matters for paper argument.
_ Victoria has hitherto claimed the right to use for irriga-
tion purposes not only the waters of its Murray tribu-
taries, but also of the Murray itself, regardless of what
may happen to S.A. It has done more irrigation than
any of its neighbors ; still it hasn’t done enough to
greatly reduce the water supply and bring the question
to a head.
S.A. demands a share of the water supply for irrigation
purposes, and it is assuredly entitled to a share. But it
also demands that enough water shall be left in the river
to make it navigable, because the river trade is mostly
S.A. trade, and it demands this even if the irrigable lands
of N.S.W. and Victoria are left dry.
Queensland, so far, doesn’t seem to say anything.
• * • •
The Australian Government—which it is
the habit of the parochial party in each State
to speak of as if it were a foreign Govern-
ment, also a public enemy, and also a
miracle worker which can do, in 18 months,
out of no visible cash resources, all the things
that the State Parliaments have failed to do
with 40 years of time and £200,000,000 of
borrowed money and all the proceeds of their
land sales, but which wilfully refuses, by
reason of its innate malevolence, to do these
things—set itself seriously to work to recon-
cile these impossible pretensions. It
appointed a Happy Family consisting of
men from each of the three States which
are most interested and most indignant, and
asked them to draw up a workable scheme.
The delegates from N.S.W. and Victoria
appear to have done so, the one from S.A.
violently dissenting on many important
points. The commission went on the simplest
and the only possible plan. It disregarded all
the old paper claims and quarrels, and started
on thelogical basis that Australia is adry coun-
try, that there isn’tenough water togo round,
and that the only thing to do is to share out
the waters of the Darling and Murray among
the people settled in their vicinity as fairly
as possible. It had to consider the popula-
tion, the amount of land in each State favor-
ably situated for irrigation, and a host of
other things, and it appears to have done
about as well as possible.
• * * *
Its main recommendations are that, until
l ocks and weirs are constructed over the
whole river system, N.S.W. shall, during
the months when the rivers are supposed to
be high, be allowed to take from them
292,000 cubic feet per minute ; Victoria,
146,000 cubic feet; and 170,000 cubic feet
are to be left for S.A. In the dry months
N.S.W. is to have the right to use
240,000 cubic feet; Victoria, 127,000;
S. A., 70,000. These amounts are to be pro-
portionately increased or decreased as the
supply igr larger or smaller than the average.
Certain alleged tributaries which only send
water into the main river at times of high
flood, when their supply is not wanted, are
not regarded as part of the Murray-Darling
system at all, and, as regards whatever water
the respective States can find in their upper
channels, these States may do as they please.
As soon as the Australian Government can
find about £3,000,000, it is recommended
that large water-conservation works be
undertaken, some of them to be charged to
all three States, and others to Victoria and
N.S.W. only. These works, it is to be
hoped, may make the river permanently
navigable, but the N.S.W. and Victorian
section of the commission rightly holds
that this is not the first consideration by a
long way. Irrigation comes first all the time.
If the water is used for irrigation the country
will grow a vast amount of produce, and
supposing navigation is rendered impossible
the produce can be shifted by rail. If
irrigation is abandoned in order to save
enough water for navigation, then steamers
will be able to plod through a wilderness
where, in bad years, there is next to nothing
for them to carry. Railways can replace
navigation; but iron won’t make crops
grow, and neither man nor beast can drink
signal-boxes and permanent way; and rail-
way lines, as a substitute for irrigation, are
a dead failure. Till the water conservation
works are constructed, it is "seemingly in-
tended that each State shall have the right
to annex its share of the water the best way
it can, Federal officers being appointed to
see that no State takes more than its share.
If it takes less that will be “ its own funeral."
It is difficult to see what more can be done.
State extravagance has so wrecked the credit
and diminished the cash* of Australia, that it
is impossible to find £3,000,000 at a mo-
ment’s notice.
» ♦ • *
The proposed shares seem fair enough.
The general idea appears to be that the
Murray waters are divided equally between
N.S.W. and Victoria ; that Victoria has the
use of the Goulburn, and N.S.W. of the
Darling and Murrurabidgee, but all this
is subject to the proviso that S.A.,
the small, dry brother further down,
must be left its fair proportion. But
the S.A. delegate demanded that the
first consideration should be to leave
enough water in the river for navigation
purposes, so that the river boats can carry
the trade down to his own State. Certainly
the cheapest outlet for produce from the
Darling is down the river to S.A., but it is
much more important to have produce to
send out than a cheap outlet and no produce.
To make quite sure of keeping the river
navigable would apparently, in bad years,
mean abandoning irrigation altogether, or
nearly so. It would mean, in bad years,
a big river flowing, at great expense in
public works, through a desert, which is
much the same as offering a jug of water to
a corpse.
• • • •
Jenkins’ Attorney-General is especially
aggrieved in this matter, and says, in bitter-
ness of spirit, that the whole preposterous
scheme will leave S.A. worse off than it was
before. In a sense, and till the huge
water conservation works are built, it
will—in fact, it is difficult to see
what else Jenkins’ Attorney-General
expected. Irrigation is a scheme for
taking water out of a river—not for
putting it in. Hitherto there has been
really very little irrigation in N.S.W. and
Victoria. Almost all the water of the
Murray-Darling, except what evaporated,
has flowed into S.A., and S.A. has let almost
all of it flow into the sea. If S.A. expects
that after large irrigation works are estab-
lished in the two eastern States it will get
as much water as hitherto, it is a very
sanguine community indeed. Still the com-
mission’s scheme provides two things for
which S.A. should be profoundly thank-
ful. It proposes to give that State a
fixed right to a certain proportion, and a
very fair proportion, of the available water ;
and if no such right is arranged, and things
are left on the old go-as-you-please basis,
N.S.W. and Victoria will probably, in time,
mop up the whole two rivers for their own
irrigation works, and leave S.A., except in
very wet seasons, with only a furrow in the
sand. Also the scheme provides, ultimately,
for large conservation works in S.A., and
one-fourth of the water, if held back by
weirs and locks, will probably provide the
Crow-eater State with as good a river as it
had when practically all the water flowed
through it into the ocean.
• • * •
But, in any case, this much seems reason-
ably certain : If the Australian Government
leaves the whole business alone it will be
warmly objurgated by all three States. And
if it adopts the commission’s very reasonable
scheme, it seems in a fair way to make many
reliable enemies in S.A., even if the other
two States don’t want to rend it asunder for
giving S.A. too much, or for giving each
other too much, or for giving each other
and S.A. too much, or for unfair division of
the cost, or simply on general principles. It
is a hard contract to be the first Australian
Government, when all the old parochial
grudges are fresh and in good working order.
Victorian and other Railway Deficits.
Victoria has now an accumulated railway deficit
of £10,836,140, and N.S. W. a similar accumulated
deficit of £8,223,257. All the other States, except
Westralia, have the same kind of spectre on hand,
but these two are the largest ones. They are both
serious items, but JST.S.W. takes its perpetual rail-
way shortage so philosophically, and says so little
about it, that not one person in ten knows of its
existence. Victoria, on the other hand, takes its
shortage in a loud and frantic spirit, and hires
wild, fat individuals like Bent to put it right.
And Bent’s idea is to curse everybody and
everything ; to smite the table hard with his fist
and issue forty impossible and contradictory
orders at once ; to personally bullyrag station-
masters, porters, and men who wheel barrow-
loads of cinders ; to pay five days’ wages for six
days’ work ; and to pay high wages to probably
unqualified constituents of his own, and
send them round to decide, out of the vastness
of their experience in running a public-house
or a drapery store, whether the employees are
doing their duty or not, and whether the manage-
ment is good, bad or indifferent. Incidentally,
also, he has decided to help the railways and to be
good to some of his own constituents by estab-
lishing a gigantic new deadhead system. Leaping
frantically in the air and roaring in a powerful
bull-voice, Thomas has decreed that whoever
builds a house worth between £3OO and £4OO in
any one of a large number of favored localities
shall get a free pass between that place and Mel-
bourne for two years, and the duration of the pass
is to vary with the value of the house, until the
person who puts up a house worth over £lOOO is
to help to reduce the Victorian railway deficit by
being a deadhead on the lines for nine years.
• • • •
All this row, to say nothing of smaller but
equally persistent rows on the same subject in
other States, is based on the preliminary theory
that the Australian State railways ought to pay
under existing conditions, and that if they don’t
pay there is something wrong. And, as a matter
of fact, no sane individual can expect them to pay
what is demanded of them. In other countries
where the population was comparatively thin,
railways were built almost wholly by alleged
private enterprise, which meant, in most cases,
that the State found at least half the money, and
the syndicate owned all the railway. In Canada
the State paid in land and cash, and other aids,
between £5OOO and £6OOO for every mile of private
line now in existence, which left the companies to
pay about a similar amount. If N.S.W. and
Victoria had handed over to their Railway Do-
partments a similar endowment of £17,000,000 o
£18,000,000 worth of land apiece, or paid that amount
of the construction cost out of revenue, neither of
them would have any deficits whatever; in fact
they would be able by this time, on present rates.’
to pay interest and working expenses, and show
about £500,000 a-year profit apiece. The United
States and the South American republics dumped
down State aid to private railway enterprise with
an equally lavish hand. To put the Australian
State railways on a level with companv-owned
railways in other countries which are somewhat
like ours in scarcity of population, the accumu-
lated deficit should be wiped off, and the lines
should only be expected to pay interest on one-
half their original cost. In no country with a
population anything like as scanty as that of Aus-
tralia do the railways do anything like what the
Australians expect seldom anything like half
what the Australians expect—from their State
systems.
• • • •
In the early years of a private railway, it seldom
pays dividends, or, at least, it pays very small
ones. The older States of Australia expected their
lines to pay about per cent, from the beginning.
The early railways were built with money bor-
rowed at as high as 6 or 7 per cent., and as the
lines couldn’t earn this, the Great Deficits started.
The State railways got no land-grants, as private
lines did in almost every country. They- weren’t
credited with a penny of the extra value they
added to private lands or to State lands ; they
were loaded with an absurd and ridiculous debt
(as well as a debt at ridiculously high interest)
through the purchase of the land required for
railway purposes from influential private thieves
at from twice to eight times its value ; and they
were expected to carry all manner of social and
political deadheads at their own loss. In Vic-
toria, especially, the lines were starved
from the commencement in the struggle
to make them pay about twice as much
interest as any other lines on earth with a similar
country to depend on. No allowance was made
out of earnings for depreciation in the early days.
Repairs were always put off till the last moment,
in the effort to show the good balance-sheet that
the public demanded, and when they accumulated
to a huge extent they were paid for out of loans.
Old roliing-stock wore out, and new rolling-stock
was charged to loans. New bridges were built
out of loans to replace old ones, also built out of
loans. In the struggle to furnish railway facilities
to every two-men-and-a-dog township, to carry
goods and passengers at rates only possible in
much more thickly-peopled lands, to carry free all
the political and social deadheads of the country,
and to make the lines pay full interest on a cost
of £12,000 or £13,000 per mile, while the Canadian
private lines pay a much lower rate of interest on
about £6OOO a mile (the interest on the other
.£5OOO or .£6OOO a mile being paid by the general
Canadian taxpayer), the existence of the Aus-
tralian State railways became one long “ fake.”
• • « •
Taking the Victorian railways as an awful
example, they are expected to defray the interest
on over £2,200,000 of debt incurred for rolling-
stock which has disappeared, and which should
have been paid for out of earnings—it wasn’t paid
out of earnings as the stock was used up, simply be-
cause of the constant struggle to show impossibly
good results under impossibly adverse condi-
tions. They are expected to pay interest
also on about £6,000,000 spent out of loans
on alterations and repairs; this was also
charged to loans in the struggle to make the
revenue show, for the moment, an absurdly good
result. They have to pay interest on £217,000
spent on abandoned lines, and about £300,000
spent on surveys which never came to anything,
also on an immense amount spent on land re-
sumptions, over and above the present value of
the land. Taking them all round, the Victorian
railways have been a splendidly profitable pro-
perty. They have honestly returned, on an
average, fully 3-£ per cent, all the days of their
existence, ranging from over 4J per cent, in the
long ago down to a, little more than 3 per cent,
now—this in addition to doing immense good to
the country. But when they 7 were able to earn
per cent, the Department wanted them to earn
6 per cent., because a fool-Governmerit, instead
of constructing them out of land revenue, had
borrowed the money at 6 per cent, to build them.
And to make them look as if they earned as near
to 6 per cent, as possible, all manner of current
expenses were charged to loans instead of being
paid out of revenue, till a huge dead debt grew
upon them, the interest bill attached to which
made solvency impossible. So now they earn 3
per cent, or so, and still charge repairs and so
on to loans, and accumulate more dead debt, in
the effort to make them look as if they earned 3£
per cent. And every Australian railway system
(possibly bar Westralia’s) is in the same situation.
• * • •
The way to abolish the Victorian railway deficit
does not lie in the wild howlings of Thomas Bent,
nor does it lie in a general distribution of free
passes to Thomas Bent’s or anyone else’s consti-
tuents, nor in a general cutting down of wages,
or sacking of employees, or engagement of
Thomas Bent’s unemployed, and possibly quite
respectable, constituents as spies. There is, doubt-
less, great room for improved management, but
even that isn’t the first essential; even now the
Victorian railways are well up in the list of the most
cheaply-managed railways in the world. What is
wanted first is honesty—just common honesty. Let
the Railway Department be relieved of the debt
unjustly heaped upon it in the past—the debt
for abandoned lines, abandoned surveys, patches,
repairs, and for new rolling-stock to replace old.
All this should have been paid for out of the Tail-
way revenue which the people received and spent
in former days; and it was not so paid because
the people demanded that the railways should
show absurdly large results on absurdly small
rates. Let all this bygone swindle be made good
and the amount—probably over £10,000,000
be taken out of the railway debt, and added to the
deficit, and paid off by instalments. Let the rail-
ways be relieved of the necessity of carrying
deadheads gratis, and starving stock free, and
fodder for starving stock at reduced rates. These
are charities, and if the people want to be good to
the poor they should do it openly ; it is absurd
to load the railways with a great part of the
country’s charitable expenditure and then
start a general persecution of railway
servants because the lines don’t pay. With
these things done, the Victorian railways would
defray the interest on every penny of their cost,
after providing fully for maintenance and repairs
—they would even pay a little towards a sinking
fund. They would certainly, on present results,
pay better without land-grants or other outside
aids than the Canadian lines do with land-grants
and other assistance to the extent of £5OOO or
so a mile. And the same theory applies to the
railway systems of other States. All they ask
to make them splendid properties is that the
Parliaments and the people should go straight
That is what they ask—what they mostly get n
Bent.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Navigation Question.
Australia was spoken to rather severely last
week by one of the potentates of the Orient s.s.
Co. He said the big steamship companies didn’t
seek to do a coastal trade—to take passengers and
cargo, that is, from one Australian port to another;
therefore, if the Australian Parliament, under the
impression that they sought to do such a trade,
enacted, as has been proposed under the Naviga-
tion law now in preparation, that they must
pay Australian rates of wages while on this coast
it would be a serious injustice. One possible
result of the said injustice would be, when the
Western transcontinental railway was built, that
the big European steamships would call at Fre-
mantle only—dropping Adelaide, Melbourne and
Sydney altogether. Supposing that event did come
to pass, it would, of course, mean a great rush of
business for the transcontinental railway, and
Australia, which would naturally want that line
to pay, might not be wholly displeased. But,
apart from that, it seems as if some fair arrange-
ment might be made. „ Australia doesn’t really
care a straw what wages outside vessels pay on its
coasts so long as they are not trading on its
coasts and unfairly competing with locally-owned
vessels, that have to pay higher wages. Let
it therefore be enacted, on the American plan,
that no vessel that is not owned in the Common-
wealth shall take in goods or passengers at any
Commonwealth port for delivery at any other
Commonwealth port, and the thing is done. As
we are informed, on the best authority, that the
British steamship companies don’t want a
coastal trade, they naturally wouldn’t object to
not being allowed to have it. Then, as British
and foreign low-wage vessels wouldn’t compete
with the locally-owned coasters, there would be no
need (until the Commonwealth begins to run steam-
ships of its own to Europe) to interfere with the
wages paid on British and foreign vessels at all.
They might carry goods from foreign ports to any
part of Australia, and back again; they might
stay about our coasts as long as they pleased, and
they might pay their sailors 2s. 6d. a century if
they liked, and the Australian sailor and ship-
owner would be none the worse. This arrange-
ment should satisfy all parties—for some years at
least, and till new questions and circumstances*
arise. It is a blessed and Christian thing to
satisfy all parties.
»
A Disastrous Effect in the Minds of
Capitalists.
Robert Harper, M.H.R., has returned from a
visit to China, Japan and other foreign
parts, with the heart-breaking news that “ our
labor legislation is producing a most disastrous
effect in the minds of capitalists ” thereabouts.
And Robert Harper, M. H.R., seems to advance
this as a really terrifying fact. The capitalist has,
as a rule, a quite inordinate opinion of the im-
portance of his own mind and the value of his
good opinion, and when he returns from anywhere
with the news that our course of action is a Shock
to other people like himself he feels that he has
struck this country with a very large and spiky
club indeed. Yet Australia has had the minds of
Harper and Sargood and Daniel Cooper and
others of the same sort under its close
observation for years, and hasn’t seen anything
in them or similar minds to make their dis-
approval so very serious. It has done things
that had a disastrous effect on their minds and
the heavens didn’t fall; it has done things that
pleased their minds and the earth didn’t rise. It
lias no reason to suppose that these foreign capi-
talists would give Australia any of their money if
this country’s labor legislation didn’t have a
disastrous effect on their minds, or that Australia
will lose any of their money by reason of the
disastrous effect aforesaid. It doesn’t know who
they are, and it doesn’t know for certain that they
have minds. Uso, it doesn’t care. Whatever
minds they have they probably require for their
own use. Further, Australia recognises the fact
that similar terrible things have been hap-
pening all the world over for as long as history
relates. George Washington’s conduct had a
disastrous effect in the mind of George 111.,
who was a considerable capitalist; and French
capitalists strongly disappro\ ed of the Revolution;
and Egyptian capitalists had a powerful objection
to the departure of the Israelites ; and the opinions
of Roman capitalists regarding Alaric were
doubtless strongly hostile. Capitalists have been
disapproving of something or other ever since the
glebe began, and the world has got along somehow
—in fact, Robert Harper would to-day be a serf
and a chattel if his ancestors hadn’t done things
that produced a most disastrous effect in the
minds of capitalists, and looking at Robert
Harper to-day The Bulletin is half-inclined, for
the first time, to wish that these insurrectionary
ancestors had left things alone. The habit, to
which ordinary Fat Men are addicted, of
coming jack from foreign lands with the
intimation —which rests on their bare word —
that capitalists or caterpillars or cockroaches are
greatly shocked at our labor legislation is pitiably
small and futile, 'in many cases the said capital-
ists never heard of our labor legislation till the
wandering Australian capitalist gave them his
own shockingly garbled version of it. In
other cases the Australian capitalist probably
just looked at them, and decided by their
appearance that they were the sort of men
who probably would be shocked by our
labor legislation if they heard of it. And mean-
while the seasons come and go, and the rain
comes or else stays away, and the wool grows as
best it can, and the wheat comes up if circum-
stances allow, and the gold and the coal are dug
out as usual, and the fact that some person who
has an office in Shanghai or Yokohama or New
York or London lifts his head out of the inkpot
for a moment and says he is shocked at our labor
legislation doesn’t matter as much as one cow’s
bone bleaching in the wilderness.
,»
Private Communications to the Bench.
A Melbourne lawyer to The Bulletin :
The position is perilously close to a scandal when the
Chief Justice of Vic. Supreme Court has continually
to he coached in his law by the Crown Prosecutor. Two
instances have occurred during the present Supreme
C jurt sittings, in its Criminal Jurisdiction. In the first,
the C. J. sentenced a prisoner to seven years, and, when
it was" pointed out that he had exceeded his jurisdiction,
inasmuch as the maximum penalty for the offence was
only five years, prisoner had to undergo the anguish
of listening to another lecture, and the sentence was altered
to accord with the law. It would be interesting to
learn whether this can be done legally—some day, per-
haps the question will be properly tested. But the
principle underlying the second case is one not merely
affecting the interests of an individual, but also involving
the satisfactory (and possibly pure) administration of
justice. In the Wartman case a most unseemly wrangle
took place owing to the Chief Justice having recalled the
iurv and directed them on a certain point in the absence of
accused’s counsel. Having told them there were no taici-
cating circumstances he, on recalling, said they could bring
in a verdict of guilty under mitigating circumstances and
refused to allow prisoner’s counsel to address him on the
subject in presence of the jury. Whether he or Purves,
K. 0., is right is a matter that, in all likelihood, will he
settled by the Full Court. But it is interesting to note
how the jury came to be recalled at all. After the
Judge’s charge and the jury’s retirement, the Crown-
Prosecutor communicated to the jury the fact that His
Honor had overlooked the provisions of the Amending
Crimes Act. This oversight may have been by
inadvertence or it may not, but it most cer-
tainly should never have happened. The associate
carried the conversation to His Honor, who re-
called the jury and directed them on the point, and
who subsequently stated in answer to Mr. Purves that
“ the Crown Prosecutor had reminded him of the section
which he had forgotten when he charged the jury ” {vide
Age). His Honor seemed to overlook, or to treat in very
cavalier fashion, the fact that he does not occupy his
exalted position for the purpose of forgetting Acts of
Parliament. But the principle involved is whether it is
to be tolerated for a moment that, during the hearing of
a trial, the presiding Judge is to have any private con-
versation with or to receive any private communication
about the case from the Crown Prosecutor? No counsel
for a prisoner would for one moment think of daring
to approach any Judge in that way. In all such cases
the matter must be mentioned in open court, and very
properly so, for if private communications are permissible,
what a vista of possibilities is open to the view ! Counsel
may not during the hearing of a case, either civil or
criminal, speak to a friend on the most harmless matter
if that friend happens to be a juryman in the case ; but
if the Chief’s ruling is correct, that same counsel may,
as soon as he is elevated to the Bench, have private
communications conveyed to him in reference to the
case in issue. As an example, take a very extreme
suggestion. Suppose, for the sake of illustration only,
that Mr. Panton, P.M., during the hearing of a case, so
far forgot himself as to allow himself to be interviewed by
a detective in regard to the matter pending, and that the
occurrence subsequently came under the judicial notice
of the Chief. This supposition is, of course, clearly im-
possible, but good enough for the purpose of illustration.
Would the English language be sutliciently ample to
express His Honor’s indignant horror at such a proceed-
ing ? The fact is that there is a great deal too much of
this judge-made so-called Law being thrust down the
throats of a long-suffering community, and the sooner
private communications of however harmless a character
are put a stop to, the greater will be the feeling of security
that justice is being properly administered. The Chief is
notorious for being possessed of a phenomenal memory. It
is to be hoped that he will not again, in three short days,
forget the provisions of Acts of Parliament, and require
to be set right by the Crown Prosecutor. If his memory
is failing him, surely he can, at least, remember that a
copy of the Statutes is always with him on the Bench.
And, as he himself would say, “ Private or semi-private
communications of a controversial character are to be
regarded with extreme and unqualified reprobation.”
♦
The N.S.W. Press Liar.
N.S. Wales journalism never reached a lofty
plane. It was clever in the days when convicts
and emancipists had m'osb to say, able in Empire
days, and so all through, so far as one office was
concerned, in the time when Hugh George bossed
S.M. Herald. But it was never, in any previous
period of decadence, quite so contemptible as at
present —so utterly lost to all sense of truth and
proper responsibility. A comparison of the
Federal Parliamentary reports in Argus or Age
with those of the Sydney dailies will make this
plain enough ; but if any man wants a searchlight
on it, let him face the facts of the Friedman or
the hatters’ case, and compare them with local
reports and comments. The Sydney press Fried-
man is put away in formalin, to be exhibited on
any likely occasion ; the hatters’ case, ended by
the admission of the men, is still as locally dis-
torted, falsified and magnified, going like a jack-
o’-lantern about the world. Not once has
one of the local dailies dared to set before
its readers the exact reasons for the main-
tenance of the clause under which the customs
authorities acted, nor yet the results which
might follow on its repeal or falling into
disuetude. Manual laborers under contract to
employers cannot be admitted at any Common-
wealth ports, unless the authorities are satisfied,
etc. And why not ? If any man wants to know,
let him look back to the time when Brogden and
Co. had on hand most of the railway-construction
of Maoriland, and introduced under contract a
thousand or so English navvies. The contract did
not stand, but what of that ? The men were on
the island, and had to earn a living. The
labor supply having been made to exceed the
demand, the contractor got the whip-hand and
used it. Suppose, in this instance, instead of six
English, 600 German hatters had been brought
over, all capable of passing the education test and
well-trained in the duties of German citizenship ?
Would local interests be saved by turning them
loose in the community, contracts quashed, but
bellies empty, and the necessity of working for
any wage becoming more exigent with every
week ? The Act is framed to bar both a black
and a white coolie system, and only those who are
hankering after one or the other are blatant in its
denunciation.
♦
These Hatters.
A deputation, representing three crusted Tory
organisations—the Taxpayers’ Union of N.S. W.,
the Victorian Employers’ Federation and the
“National” League of S.A.—waited the other
day on Premier Barton to ask for the repeal of
the clause under which the six infuriated hatters
found their landing somewhat delayed. And
even this crowd had to admit that Premier
Barton’s action was strictly according to the law,
and that he couldn’t, without breaking the law,
have acted otherwise than he did. The following
is from Sydney Telegraph’s report:—
Mr. Fraser admitted that the Prime Minister could
NOT HAVE ACTED OTHERWISE THAN HE DID IN HAVING
REQUIRED PROOF THAT THE HATTERS WERE MEN OF SPECIAL
skill. Still it was un-English to have to take that
action. Such a provision in the law would most certainly
bring the Commonwealth into trouble with the other
British possessions throughout the world. He agreed
that Australia should not be made the dumping ground
for sweated workmen, but in this case such a suggestion
was not applicable, because the men were trade unionists,
and were to be paid union wages.
Mr. M'Lennan, of the N.S.W. Taxpayers’ Union, agreed
that a bar should be placed on the admission of
criminals, paupers and so on. It was repugnant
to Australians, however, that able-bodied, sound-
minded Englishmen should be kept oat. (“ Hear, hear.”)
The deputation looked upon the hatters as Englishmen,
who inherited with us the countries that our fathers
fought for, conquered, and peopled. (“ Hear, hear.”) T.ie
mere fact that we came to Australia first did not give us
exclusive right to this portion of the British Empire.
(Cheers.) These British were not undesirables, hut the
very people we wanted. (“Hear, hear.”) The deputa-
tion did not wish to criticise the Prime Minister’s admin-
istration of the Act. If anything, they supported the
whole-hearted and impartial way he had administered
the law as he had found it. They protested against the
law which, when they understood it, made them blush ;
and they thought that the law was on the statute-book
on account of the undue influence exercised by the Labor
party in Australian politics.
Thereby the Tax-dodgers and the rest give away
the whole case. The law exists; it was openly
created by the votes of a huge majority, so there
is no possible doubt about its existence; and
Premier Barton, by the admission of even his
opponents, simply enforced it in a perfectly legal
manner. In their agitation against him the
Reids and Joe Cooks and Pulsfords and
other strange political cattle didn’t dare
to demand the repeal of the law. So
they (like the insincere and shifty and un-
democratic Premier See) pasted their snuffling
little personal advt. on the case by denouncing
Barton for not breaking tiie law, or by hinting
that he was doing something not covered by the
law. And now the Taxdodgers and the Federated
Sweaters and the National Ass. go and break up
the Kjsid-Pulsford-G’ook show in this fashiou.
*
.The Pay of the Politician.
The State Parliaments of Australia have followed
the Australian Legislature into recess, marching
in most cases through the blood of slaughtered
Bills amid a storm of objurgation and rowdi-
ness. In no single State can the legislative
results of the session just ended be con-
sidered as at all satisfactory. Everywhere
there is the same condition of financial muddle,
and of legislative ineptitude—accounts in confu-
sion, necessary laws neglected, unnecessary laws
passed, “jobs” or scandalous follies as bad as
“jobs” approved—astale fumeof recrimination and
disorder hanging over all. This condition of tilings
is not extraordinary, and typical of one session only.
It is as usual as a dry season, so that the news-
papers have come to look upon it as a necessary
condition of Parliamentary government, provid-
ing bright paragraphs for them if doing no other
good. Yet it is safe to say that if, in any
public company, the board of directors con-
ducted business in the same way, the share-
holders would at once make a change. The
Parliamentary trouble, however, continues to
exist because the shareholders in the State (i.e.,
the voters) are singularly fatuous in their ideas.
They demand a high degree of brain power, a
serious sense of responsibility and an irreproach-
able honesty for a net average return (after deduct-
ing election expenses and so on) of about 50s.
a week, with the rather remote chance thrown in
of occasionally enjoying a net average salary of
about £lO a week for a short time as a Minister.
Naturally they don’t get it. The law of supply
and demand is to some extent interfered with in
this regard by considerations of patriotism and
public spirit; also by the willingness of the average
politician to take some of his pay in the tickling
of his vanity. But the great rule that a man or a
community will generally get what it pays for—no
more, though often less—is not wholly or even
largely abrogated by those considerations. The
people, on the whole, get either (1) the sort of
brain-power that has a market value of 50s. a
week; or (2) that portion of a clever man’s
brain-power which he is willing to give at
50s. a week and the chance of occasionally
getting £lO a week for a short while.
And that is the secret of Parliamentary stupidity
and Parliamentary laziness; of congested business,
neglected legislation and confused finances. When
the community has the sense to pay for its political
work being done properly it will have it done
properly ; it would be a cheap bargain if that end
could be secured by the payment, in a State of the
size of N.S.W., of £250,000 a year in Parlia-
mentary salaries.
♦
Providence and the Kanaka.
The goody-goody proprietors of S.M. Herald are
hereby urgently requested to consider the follow-
ing statements (extracted from an article which
they allowed Senator Jawbone Neild to write
for their pious paper last Saturday), and ask
themselves if they can afford to lend their spotless
character to the dissemination of glaring and
obvious untruths in this fashion :
It was the proud boast of Englishmen that oil British
soil all men had equal rights. It has been reserved for
the Commonwealth to create legal distinctions between
man and man, such as Australia never knew before, and
to deny a British subject his daily bread because of a
shade in his face !
I have yet to learn that you can reverse the decisions
of Providence by Act of Parliament. The going of the
Kanaka will be followed by the extinction of the great
sugar industry. This happened before when Samuel
Griffith prevented the employment of Kanakas, and it
will happen again.
In that brief statement there are condensed two
flat and absolute untruths and one unreliable in-
sinuation. All men do not have equal rights on
British soil; if they had, the people of India
would have the same Parliamentary rights as
those of England, instead of being bossed by
white officials ; and a shade in a man’s face
wouldn’t prevent him rising beyond a cer-
tain very humble rank in the British-Indian
army ; and his color wouldn’t exclude him
from the blessed self - governing privileges
which the Englishman enjoys; and there would
be no special law dealing with Indian immi-
grants in Natal, and we wouldn’t see, the re-
markable spectacle of Parliamentary privileges
being practically restricted to the white popu-
lation of the empire. The great sugar industry
didn't become extinct when Samuel (Griffith re-
restricted Kanaka immigration, or anything
like it; any one who can read the flgures
dealing with sugar output in the Queensland
Government statistics can see that. As to the
fact that Senator Neild isn’t aware that the
decisions of Providence can be reversed by Act of
Parliament, Providence didn’t put the Kanaka or
the Asiatic in Queensland, and shutting them out
isn’t reversing any visible decision of Providence.
Also Providence didn’t put the white man in
Australia, so letting Jawbone Neild remain hero
is, in a sense, reversing its decisions, or trying to.
Surely the Herald, which is respectable and con-
scientious though painfully dull, must be at heart
ashamed of a cause which has to be bolstered up
by such glaring perversions of fact.
»
Justice Fringes Logic.
The dictum of Justice Piung, that when a Govt,
has decided on Way, everybody should either shut
up or shout “Hooray!” until the war is over,
ought not to stop at war. It should apply all
round. For instance:—
When the Crown has arrested a person and declared
(through a constable) that he is guilty, everybody should
shut up. The constable may be wrong; but that doesn’t
matter ; better that an innocent man should suffer than
that the Crown should be embarrassed.
After a man has been sentenced to be hanged for
murder, it is some sort of sedition to show that he wasn’t
there when the murder was committed. He may not
have been ; but we can’t afford to destroy confidence in
our Institutions—we must See the Tiling Through.
When the Government appoints a poet laureate, every-
body must either shut up or say that he is a great and
noble poet. He may, it is true, be a Nahum Tate or an
Alfred Austin. But that doesn’t matter ; nothing must
be done to suggest that the Government could possibly be
a poor judge of poets.
If the Government “ app’ints Maloney” it is the
solemn duty of Dill-Macky and everybody else to say
that Maloney is the best man for the job. Even if we
don't approve of Maloney we must pretend to—anything
rather than embarrass the Government.
Also, when Constituted Authority, as represented bv
the eight aldermen of Dingbat Swamp, declares that it
d >esn’t see why it shouldn’t empty the town filth down
by the town dam, it is the patriotic duty of Dingbat
Swamp to shut up. Better to all die of typhoid than to
reflect upon the wisdom of Constituted Authority After
everybody s dead it is permissible to suggest that the
eight aldermen probably made a mistake.
Several otlier excellent rules will be framed for
the future government of tliis hitherto benighted
P-iOpl© i but th&so will do to go on with*
Six Hatters and a Nation.
Thk Oront-es’ hatters have landed, to give up the
stage to the Oruba hatters, who were also detained
for a while by Federallawas being laborers imported
under contract and required, therefore, to provide
proof that they are men of special skill before they
can be exempted from the provisions of the Immi-
gration Restriction Act. Like the Orontes hatters,
the Oruba hatters are Englishmen, and their
detention, even for a day, makes the blood boil
in the veins of many a stout gentleman of
an English and plethoric habit of thought.
But no definite protest has been attempted
by England, and no real indignation has
been aroused among Australians, in spite of
the frenzied efforts of the newspapers representing
the “import ing in terest, ” which is always violently
English by nature even if it is foreign-Jew by
birth. The right of Australia, in fact, has been
once for all established definitely to keep out of
this continent English-born citizens if, in her own
interests, she so chooses. That is a big step
towards Australian independence, a definite
advance towards the National ideal. It is not
here urged that the right, so established, should
be exercised arbitrarily or offensively ; it would
not be advisable to at once set about the task of
excluding the objectionable Englishman who comes
out here with £lOO, his father’s curse, and a rooted
objection to labor, contract or otherwise. But
what is important is the fact that Australia
has proved her power to keep Australia for the
Australians and such immigrants as Australians
choose to welcome, and has shown that an Eng-
lishman is not necessarily welcome because he is
an Englishman. The six hatters have made
history. The next great step in the development
of Australian Nationalism to which The Bulletin
looks forward is the stopping at one of the ports
of the Commonwealth of a six-million British
loan, on the ground that it is an undesirable
immigrant of the worst kind. When that comes
Australia will really begin to own herself.
♦
Those Bushveldt Scapegoats.
Now that the official censorship is relaxed, we are
enabled to learn more of the real facts of the
case against the Bushveldt Carbineers. Mrs.
Handcock is in receipt of a sea'ecl letter, through
the proper military channel, of which the follow-
ing is a true copy. It bears out The Bulletin’s
assumption that Morant and Handcock were
made the scapegoats of the British Army in
S’Africa :
Dear Madam, — I was military chaplain at Petersburg,
in the N. Transvaal, during all the time that the Bush-
veldt Carbineers had their headquarters there, and I
knew your late husband and all those officers and men
who were concerned, for and against, in his trial, and I
attended most of the sittings of the courts. And,
knowing what I know, I want to say to you that, great
as may be your grief for the loss of him, you need
feel no shame, but rather pride, on his account.
He was a good-hearted man and a brave soldier, simple
and fearless, and he did what he was told. If he did
wrong—l do not say that he did — it was the fault of his
superiors, and of those that appointed his superiors, and
gaoe them their orders. In the matter of the shooting of
Boer prisoners, of which he and others were found guilty,
he acted 'under the orders of Lieut. Morant, a man of
strong feelings and eager to avenge the savage murder of
his friend Capt. Hunt. In the matter of the shooting of
the missionary, the only one of the crimes charged which
really excited any moral indignation, the Court, without
hesitation, found him not guilty, and never, I should
think, has a feebler charge been brought before a Court.
I was not a friend of these officers of the Bushveldt
Carbineers, but my sympathy was aroused by the harsh
treatment they received—in being kept under close arrest
(I myself, the chaplain, was requested not to visit them)
for some months before they were tried, and by the way
the case was, as it were, prejudged from the statements
of bad men ; and by the utterly false accounts which were
inserted in English and, I believe, Australian papers.
I did not see your husband after he was taken down to
Pretoria, but I understand that he died simply and fear-
lessly, as he had lived.
I have heard it said that the execution convinced the
Boers of British fairness and made them ready to come to
terms. If this be so, then Lieuts. Morant arid Handcock
died for their country in a very special sense, and this is
one of the many instances of suffering, even if undeserved,
bringing salvation.
With much sympathy and good wishes, I am, yours
very truly,
Joshua Brough.
Newcastle, Staffs, 25/9/’O2.
*_ .
Premier Irvine, of Victoria, says that his
Government won’t give way if the House of 48
Rich Landlords rejects or mangles his Reform
Bill. Which is very good in a general way—but,
to come down to details, what will Irvine do ? He
can’t dissolve the Council, lie can’t swamp it.
If he dissolves the Assembly, and gets a fresh
mandate from the country that would make no
difference. There are only three at present
visible ways of overcoming the House of Land-
lords : To get it to consent to its own abolition by
straight-out bribery—say by pensioning off the
present 48; to terrorise it by suspending the
whole machine of State till it gives way—by the
Assembly going on strike and leaving the public
service to go to pieces, the public liabilities to go
unpaid, and generally by letting Chaos come
again; and, thirdly, to shift it by Revolution.
Irvine must adopt one of these devices, or find a
fourth equally serviceable —or else cave in, as he
did over the Factories’ Bill.
4
As the Victorian Constitution Reform Bill passed
the Assembly on Wednesday last, it was a strange
mixture of the most mulish Toryism and the most
enlightened Liberalism. In this respect it was a
true reflex of the Irvine Govt, that carried it
unough. The Bill, on its Liberal side, reduces
the qualifications. of voters for the House of
Landlords to the ratepayers’ roll, provides
woman’s suffrage, embodies provisions for settling
deadlocks between the cwo Houses, and makes all
Council electors eligible to sit in the Council. On
its Tory side it restrict" the issue of voters’ certi-
ficates to ap that renders them almost
useless, Jnd does many other things.
There is a grave danger to democracy in
the peculiar mixture of this Reform Bill.
The Irvine Govt, and its majority is a good deal
more Tory than Libe V, and there is little doub
that if the Council throws out all the Liberal pro-
visions of the Biel and returns it to the Assembly
with its Tory framework intact, Irvine can, if he
wishes it, force the Assembly to accept the
Council s amendments. Ihe Arctic person stoutly
protests that he is deeply sincere in his attempt to
pass all the “essential features of the Bill” into
law whether the Council likes it or not. Up to
now, however, he lias been careful not to tell the
country what he regards as the il essential features
of the Bill.”
r4
Vic. Premier Irvine’s tender regard for the Mel-
bourne Tramway monopolists is truly touching
Tnat grasping company having lately reduced its
fares on the lines, or portions of lines, where the
Otate railways are competitors, Hirsch, M.L A
asked Irvine if he would make use of the power
given to Parliament, by sec; 26 of the ’B3 Tram-
ways Act, to revise the company’s fares all round.
Irvine replied that he had waded through manv
byg’oue Hansards to find out Parliament’s infcen-
turn as to that clause—as if the section wasn’t


plain enoug-h—and had arrived at the conclusion
that the intention was that the fares were only to
he revised “ if it were found that very large profits
were being made” (Argus report). “The
Government,” said Irvine, “did not propose to
take any steps in this matter.” Even accepting
Irvine’s quaint method of arriving at the inten-
tion of those who passed the Tramway Act as
proper, and his way of reaching the meaning of
an unusually lucid section as correct, what does
he call “ very large” profits ? This Tramway Co.
has, on a paid-up capital of £250,000, accumu-
lated reserves of £300,000, has increased its
capital, out of ■profits, by £230,000, and has paid
dividends ranging from per cent, in the lean
post-boom days to 38£ per cent. ! Even in the
none-too-good times of this and last year it
managed to pay 24 per cent. For the 14 years
its dividends have averaged 17 per cent, per
annum, and it has almost doubled its capital and
placed to reserves more than its capital—all out
of profits! And Irvine doesn’t consider these
“ very large ” profits!
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Lyceum “ Breaking of the Drought”
Royal “ The Thirty Thieves."
Criterion “Cinderella.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Palace “ Dorothy."
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s (“i Country Mouse” and
- ^A p an t omln , e RehearsaL
Her Majesty’s “ Dick Whittington.”
Theatre Royal “ The Power and the Glory.”
Opera House Rickard’s Vaudeville Co.
N Tpri L nces P ’BridgeV" { FitZ * erftld B^'Oircus.
» .
George Musgrove resumed business at
Sydney Royal on Saturday, and put on the old
“Chinese Honeymoon” for a scrappy season of
four nights to fill in the pre-Christmas interval.
That wild and misty revel looked just a
trifle less unsatisfactory and a trifle brighter
than of old. It was nicely dressed and
brilliantly staged, and Miss May Beatty’s
get-up was better than formerly, and the
mother-in-law carried her own monkey to the
kitchen, instead of making the Emperor shift our
hairy mutual ancestor. The “Honeymoon” has
some shreds of coherence at the beginning, but
the latter half is an amiable derangement of
Chinese lunatics, and the meaning of it no
man is ever likely to find out. The cast
was the same, or much the same, as be-
fore. Miss Josephine Stanton was bright and
saucy as Princess Soo-Soo, and Miss May Beatty
was bright and perky as the lady-of-all-work and
general rusher-around-with-refreshments at an ill-
conducted Chinese hotel. Henry Hallam towered
like a tall, friendly full moon in the gauds and
petticoats of the fat Emperor, and the saddened
Admiral, with a countenance of the length of a
serpent, was as before. The “ Thirty Thieves” is
to illumine the Royal on Friday night. Hopes
are entertained that there is no mother-in-law in
the new piece. There has been a long course of
mother-in-law at the Criterion, and the recent
outbreak of the same female at the Royal was a
superfluous infliction.
* * * 4*
Bland Holt’s “ White Heather" gives way
on Boxing night to a drought-drama, as before
mentioned. The play is a new production, and
ought to shed an original light on stage rural life.
In most pastoral plays a large harvest is being
brought in, and a fat ox is driven across the
stage', and everything in the way of crops is
understood to be satisfactory the family
trouble generally arising because Susan has
hearkened to the squire’s son and erred. A
drama wherein Susan is tired and haggard, and
probably virtuous, and nobody falls except the
cattle from want of grass, should be refreshingly
realistic, and if Bland’s drama is that sort of
drama, it may be commended beforehand. A
heroine starving in Woolloomooloo instead of
London, or seeking her lost character on the
George-st. tram-line, will probably be another
touch of originality, according to advertisement.
** * *
Sydney Criterion has closed its doors till
Boxing Night, when it re-opens with a “good,
old-fashioned children’s panto.,” which will pro-
bably succeed in pleasing the average grand-
parent, as the spectacled modern child has few
associations with the columbine or the string of
sausages that gets round the policeman’s neck. If
Sheridan takes the part of Cinderella’s elder
sister and a few other people, and if some incon-
gruous coon songs are introduced, this production
will no doubt be forgiven in consideration of the
season of peace and goodwill.
*# * *
Sydney Palace opens on Boxing Night
with the well-favored “Dorothy,” sung by a
cast which suggests a performance of merit.
Besides Miss Florence Young, George Lauri, and
other favorites of the Royal Comic Opera co.,
whom it would be libellous to call “old,” but
whose merits are familiar, R. Roberts and H.
ThOrley, both new to Sydney, are announced for
singing parts. -
** * *
Last Friday night saw a crowded house at
Sydney Royal to watch the Players’ representa-
tion of Pinero’s “The Profligate,” preceded by a
curtain-raiser, “ The Captain.” Judging by the
attendances which Philip Lytton’s productions
draw, Pinero’s plays are popular in Sydney, also
the actor-manager knows enough to prevent his
amateur co. making too rude a slaughter of the
author’s work. “The Profligate” is far from
being one of Pinero’s best plays, but there is a
certain smoothness about all his work that covers
ft multitude of deficiencies. It is like a wicked
old man with lots of tact. The moral of the show
is that if you do profligate, you should profligate
with all your might, and designing mothers will
“ lay for ” you, and sweet young girls will fall into
your arms, and say they hate you. Dunstan
Renshaw had had a little affair down in the
country under an assumed name, and then came
back to town and married pure-minded, delightful
Leslie Brudenell. The religious Scotch solicitor
who loved the girl in secret, but was afraid he
wasn t _ pure and holy enough to marry her,
maintained that attitude till the reckless Renshaw
came along and took Leslie to his sinful heart.
The country lass, having had all the profit and plea-
sure of a sinful time, comes to London for revenge,
and manages to let Mrs. Renshaw know in the
presence of others that Mr. Renshaw was not an
unstained saint in the near past. Mrs. Renshaw’s
virtue revolts; but, like all the rest, she
gets over it, and fortunately gets over it soon
enough to reconcile with Renshaw before any
other girl gets hold of him.
As the Scotch attorney Lincoln Jones was
Scotchbyterian enough to have been named Ton aid
Macpherson M'Dougall; and Owen Bancroft
played the debased Renshaw in a good human way.
George Beecher made a good, disreputable but
high-class Lord Dangars. Miss Lonsdale realised
the author’s ideal of Mrs. Stonehay. Astheabsurdly
happy wife of the debased Renshaw, Mrs. Lytton
was distinctly convincing; but Miss Alice Holroyd
made the deceived Janet Preece a cat. Which
she was, but Miss Holroyd made her a raspy,
jarring cat, and Renshaw, as a man with a culti-
vated taste in sin, would surely be more careful in
selecting his cat.
** * *
At Sydney Tivoli the main features of the
holiday programme will be the Florenz Co , Spry
and Monti, the Harvey Boys, and the exhibition
of sculling by champions Towns and Pearce. This
latter item serves to show very well the move-
ments necessary for skilful rowing (to get on in a
row-boat is almost purely a matter of skill,
strength being quite a secondary consideration),
and for that reason is a great attraction to the
young man with _.he burnt-sienna hands, the
roasted looking nose, and the marine-flavored
moustache.
** * *
M‘Adoo’s Jubilee Singers inaugurate a
Sydney season at the Centenary Hall on Christ-
mas night. The combination needs no elaborate
recommendation. It is a rich, mellow, melodious
party, with a streak of piety in its business that
isn’t wholly unpleasing, and it ha 3 gathered
up the ruins of many a butchered hymn
from beneath the feet of a discordant Methodist
congregation, and put it together again as good as
new. There is a wondrous toughness about these
old hymns. One can stand outside almost any
church, any Sunday, and hear the congregation
perpetrating their mangled remains, and still they
survive.
«* * *
Melbourne shows, at time of writing, are
mostly passing hence in obedience to a law of
ancient custom which requires managers to change
their bills at Xmas. Nobody can state why that
custom originated in the dim wayback, consider-
ing that a holiday and hayseed-visitor season is
obviously the most suitable of all seasons for
squeezing the last ounce of profit from an old
show. But the custom stands, and theatrical
people bow to its musty dictate.
** * *
Her Majesty’s (where “Paul Jones” ceased
to loot the Spanish Main on Saturday last) is
closed until Boxing Night. Williamson and
Musgrove have conspired to produce a panto,
of great bulk and abnormal splendor on that
annua.! occasion, and the name of their joint enter-
prise is “Richard Whittington,” commonly called
“Dick.” The company engaged for “Whitting-
ton” includes numerous people of a special de-
scription, and the production promises to be all
that the advt. claims for it. If the Grand Com-
bination panto, can possibly excel the ad. it will
do so.
** * *
At the Princess’s the last night of “A
Royal Rival ” will be Christmas Eve, and the new
Srogramme will presumably happen on Boxing
fight, although the advt., at time of writing, has
forgotten to fix a date for the event. The new
Erogramme is a double bill, and Nellie Stewart
as undertaken to back the double—“A Country
Mouse” and “A Pantomime Rehearsal.”
** * *
At the Royal the grand superlative
Andersonian bill for Xmas is “ The Power and
the Glory,” which four-act reminder of the Lord’s
Prayer starts its revival to-night (Wednesday).
Melbourne accepted this drama in a kindly spirit
some two or three years ago. There are points of
peculiarity about “The Power and the Glory.”
It introduces a sweet little cherub, who sits up
aloft and pops out through the London fog when
least expected. And it concludes with a trans-
formation scene in a theatre, instead of bringing
the curtain down upon a picture of the dear old
home, with a handcuffed villain in the back-
ground.
** * *
At Fitzgeralds’ Circus the entertainment
has taken a very horsey turn, at the instigation of
General Desire. The ancient equestrian drama of
“Dick Turpin’s Ride to York ” rages within the
arena and its vicinity for 45 minutes, or there-
abouts, and strikes a sympathetic audience as
being a particularly well-built narrative of its
kind. Also Barton, the buekjump rider, is putting
his “Skyscraper” through some violent exercises
whilst he (Barton) remains on top of the restless
anitnal. Ajax, the contortionist, is back at the
circus after a long absence, and several other
people are taking the places of some who went to
Adelaide last week.
The Montrose acrobats, the Harbecks, and
the admirable ballad-singing of Brownlow are
principal items at Melb. Opera House this week,
but a considerable change of bill is likely to occur
on Saturday. The Bijou is still advertising for a
tenant to follow Hawtrey. The uncle of Little
Lord Fauntleroy was to close his highly respect-
able and unlucky season on Friday of this week,
and seek for greener pastures in Tasmania.
** * *
Mdlle. Dolores, who has become identified
with the oratorio performances of Melbourne
Philharmonic Society, will sing the soprano solos
in “The Messiah” on Xmas night. “The
Messiah,” needless to say, is a Town Hall fixture.
It hasn’t been performed in the same Town Hall
for fifty consecutive Xmas nights, but it is about
to be performed for the fiftieth time by the Phil.
Society, and Dolores the Delightful will appear
as guardian angel of the jubilee. An interesting
souvenir programme, prepared for the occasion,
will differ from most souvenir programmes in
being given away gratis.
** * *
On Friday, Jan. 2,1903, a benefit matinee in
aid of the Distressed Actors’ Fund happens at
Melbourne Princess’s. All the theatrical com-
panies in the city have offered their services to
the cause, furthermore Melba has offered her
services, which amounts to a guarantee of a
crowded house at improved benefit prices. D.C.
and front stall seats, 10s.; reserved seats in the
amphitheatre, ss.
** * *
Charles Arnold undoubtedly sold his
famous Luck as well as his comedies to the
Willoughby-Geaoh management. “ Wrong Mr.
Wright” has repeated the financial success of
“Jones” every wherein Maoriland, and Willoughby
and Geach are returning to Sydney anon richer
and fatter men. So much for the “ One-play-one-
Co.” policy. With the exception of Miss Ethel
Appleton, who took Miss Hope Mayne’s place
when that tall charmer left for England some
months ago, the “Wright” co. is the same as it
was in the beginning. Consequently, “Wright”
and the other pieces are played more and more
smartly as time goes on. For farcical comedy
work there is no co. like the old 00.
** * *
At Adelaide Royal Maggie Moore has
ceased to Strike Oil. At the Tivoli Cinquevalli
has made his first appearance in Adelaide, and
the reopening of the house for a Xmas season is
very popular. Nelstone and Forrest and the
Lentons are also in the bill. Fitzgerald’s Circus
is at the Exhibition grounds, where strong-man
Page! manipulates one lion and a horse-and-a-half,
and the tea-cup cycle track also booms. Altogether,
Adelaide is a much more lively place in the
evening than it has been for many weeks.
There was no trouble over the second
batch of hatters who arrived under contract at
Sydney per Oruba. This time boss Anderson
tore himself away from his old reticent attitude
and applied for exemption as the law provides,
and got it promptly. He would doubtless have
got it just as promptly in the previous case had
he applied, and then all the row about the “free-
dom of British subjects” and the “Constitoosh’n”
and the “ flag ” would have been saved.
A correspondent:—
Sydney Harbor Trust has brought back the huge Ger-
man mail-boats to the west side of Circular Quay. It is
now two years ago that the bawling “ Teddy ” Clarke,
M.L.A., going home to North Shore to lunch one day,
was kept waiting half-an-hour while a 10,000-tonner
slowly drew out and allowed his ferry boat to pass. Clarke
made a row, and then Premier Lyne ordered the German
people to berth at Woolloomooloo Bay. The North Shore
folk didn’t gain much, as*the vacant wharf was promptly
allotted to the White Star co. for the Medic, Persic, etc.,
bigger, if anything, than the displaced boats. Now the
Persic, Runic, etc., go to Woolloomooloo Bay, and the
Barbarossa, Grosser Kurfurst and co. are back at the Quay.
After all, it does not matter very much whether your
ferry-boat is smashed-up by a White Star 12,000 tonner or
by a 10,000 tonner flying the German flag.
One of The Bulletin’s old friends, Rev.
E. Treinayne Dunstan, has come back to Sydney
with an “explanation” as to why he left so
suddenly. He traces his first financial entangle-
ments to W.A. After he came to Sydney—
Claims were constantly being made fcn me. I had to
meet them by borrowing, sometimes at an appalling rate
of interest. As a matter of fact, I shall have no difficulty
whatever in showing that I have paid in interest alone
more than the sum of my present indebtedness.
It would be interesting to know if E.T.D. was
plucked by Jew or Christian usurers—one of the
most greedy at the calling is an ex-Wesleyan
Sunday-school teacher, and a bond of piety might
have misled this clerical fly to his parlor. Mr.
Dunstan says that he intends to stay in Sydney
now “ until he can clear himself,” and if the Con-
gregational Union prevents him from “exercising
his ministry,” he will, in the vernacular, “go on
his own.”
Sydney D.T. wound up its humorous
report of the proceedings of the Carriage of
Newspapers Committee of Inquiry with a 2\
column “notice” last Saturday. The findings
of the committee were: That the arrange-
ments for the free carriage by train of bulk
parcels of Sydney morning newspapers were
“ highly irregular and improper ” ; that it would
have been “ a most improper thing ” for
the State Govt, to have continued them after
Federation ; that the Federal Govt, could not
have continued them without actual misappropria-
tion of public money ; that “contents sheets” of
the Sydney morning papers were illegally sent
free through the post for a number of years ;
that the newspaper managers, in trying to induce
the authorities to continue “a highly irregular
and improper” course, erred through ignorance
of its nature, and not from a contempt of the law.
This very sweeping condemnation of the free
carriage by rail of the Sydney D.T.’s parcels
occupies a half column ; then follow two columns
of a minority report by Mr. Hogue (it is a humor-
ous fact that Mr. Hogue is a newspaper man him-
self) stating that the newspaper managers were free
from all blame, and that the free railway carriage
system was a splendid one, and should not have
been disturbed. This protest by the man (the
newspaper man) out of step with the regiment is
dignified by D.T. with the heading “An Historical
Statement,” and it is also given a “leader” in
Monday’s paper—a leader which absolutely
ignores the very weighty counts of the verdict
against the newspapers by the majority of the
committee. What a valuable, thing a sense of
humor would be in the D.T. office!
The equitable life assurance society
of the United States.
ASSETS
INCREASE IN ASSETS
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBER, WOL
SURPLUS ..
INCREASE IN SURPLUS
£68.966.608
£5,508,678
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE
£14.797,717
£1,039,973
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1900 by ...
£245,682.651
£13,000,350
£8,088,718
„. ILTfMTT ta xt ' LOCAL DIRECTORS:
Sir WM. M MILLAN, K.0.M.G., Chairman; Hon. O. K. MAOKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.;
F, NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
O UOVYLEY Secretary S ' W ‘ U’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S.,
O. WVYLEY, Secreur, Manager lor S.B.W. and Queensland.
SAWMILL MACHINERY.
Single and Double Cutting BAND MILLS for
hardwood logs, CIRCULAR SAW MILLB, Com-
plete Outfits of any capacity- Band Resaws.
Engines and Boilers.
WILLIAM ““ FLEMING,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
SfspS&SiS
wants all the credit it has for the better purpose of^on*
««X™tt;r t, r.ho“d‘i sre *“ j ' " do " d
.iSouhToo'SiwSS" “ »>* >»ei»
stiTminn I!!",’ h l *£? . ne S eMa T amendment of the Con-
stituuon can be obtained, all new State debts up to the
wteu ° f Ch f- t r.V. ,sfer ’ and let the States make a fresh start
with no liabilities whatever—what hanuens
afterwards to be their own funeral: PP t 0 them
Renew these debts when the loans fall due or convert
them earlier if a chance offers, as a consolidated Austra-
dated'deb & F art ° f , th , e bar « ai " -hat the consoli-
atea debt shall be a first charge on the Federal
revenue, that a sinking fund shall be provided for its
ST', Md that th l a "*"IS fund s P hall not be paid
out of new loans in any shape or form whatever. 1
* ta i s . e the ,^ eder al Public Works fund out of taxation If
possible, or if the borrowing habit is incurable, by local
wblcb shall be only a second charge on the Aus-
attached VGnUe ’ a “ d whlch shall also have a sinking fund
Tins would probably mean that the Australian
whiohwS h oUld hav !f t 0 pay n,ore f° r ‘ts new loans,
b * a secondary charge on the revenue, and
that the State Governments would have to pay more for
their pew loans, which would also be a secondary charge.
That is only reasonable. The position is something like
with'n 1 °A a , n !r ar r a ,U , XU 7’ and they can be dispensed
* ? f Australia only decides to be honest and self-
reliaiit and live on its own resources. The old debt isn’t
* darned hard necessity. And it isn’t
optional, it is there.
It is much more essential to pay the very lowest dos-
sible interest on the renewal of £200,000,000 of old debt
than on a much smaller amount of new borrowings. And
the way to get the very lowest terms is to make each old
loan, as it is converted, a first charge on the Australian
Government 8 revenue.
Jit*™*'} more essential to pay the lowest possible
interest on the old debt, which is mostly held in England,
than on the new debt, which is a superfluous iniquity,
and which can, and should, be raised locally. Let us pay
S per cent, to the other fellow, even if we have to pay 4
per cent to ourselves to make up. It is the money we
have to pay to the other fellow that drains the country’s
resources. J
• •
The National Mutual Life Association of
Australasia (Melbourne), from its absorption of the
Mutual of Victoria until now :
Income. Claims. Ex ‘ Written Added to
1898 " £ f 19 9 -607 £78450 £1573 £140,231
*• 479 > 665 240,447 86,398 152 820
1900 " 0 22,764 91 ’ 058 7219 178,’ 712
mm " ! 94 ’ 974 87,779 690 140,678
mnv " Koo’fin 803,190 90,971 725 171,531
1902 ~ 583,149 286,953 100,852 400 194,944
The addition made to the funds is the largest recorded in
a !“ y ?u® year ,n th ® society’s experience. The income is
also the largest—likewise the expenses, though not the
expense rate. An increase of £5OOO odd in commissions
?^ nt 7 bu “’ and over £3OOO in office expenses, appear
to be the chief cause of the rise.
In some other respects the progress of the
n™ e !& „ b ® eu yery considerable. The total funds are
now £3,542,386. Expenses, &c., show up as follows
Expenses Compared Interest Earned on
isq-7 lo ta i l" co me. Average Funds.
J°“7 * • £lB 18 8 per cent.
1899 * * ? 8 *> £4 15 2 per cent.
1899 .. 18 4 6 „ 413 0
1900 .. 16 14 11 il3 3 "
1901 .. 16 1 3 413 4 ”
1902 .. 17 511 ;; 4u 7 ;;
The increase in the expense rate is a misfortune: still
even now the National Mutual is more cheaply managed
than the majority of offices. The interest earned is
well up to the average, and is calculated on the
total funds—depreciation reserve of £81,915 in-
eluded. It would be even better if it were
not that the funds are absurdly inflated by the
inclusion of that dubious and papery asset, “ Deferred in-
stalments of annual premiums, £57,152.” Wiiat good
that item does to any sober or respectable society it is
hard to understand, yet a good many institutions suffer
from it.
• • * •
Apart from that one point, however, the
National Mutual may be regarded as an irreproachable
institution. It is the second largest concern of its kind
in Australasia. It has a steadily growing business ; its
assets look very sound ; it maintains a substantial de-
preciation reserve (£81,915) ; the expenses are not exor-
bitant ; and the interest earned is a trifle higher than
might be expected these bad times. Altogether, the
management has every reason to feel satisfied with itself.
• • * •
In addition to the Bill authorising the bor-
rowing of £4,000,000 on temporary Treasury bills at
4 per cent, the N.S.W. Government has passed through
Parliament a measure authorising the borrowing of
£3,000,000 by the issue of long-dated stock in the usual
way. As it assures the Legislature it won’t use the power
thus asked for of borrowing £7,000,000 in a heap it prob-
ably means to issue stock if possible, and Treasury bills
if stock is unsaleable. It probably means this, but still it
asks for power to borrow the whole £7,000,000, and
Boohgal is paved with good intentions.
• • * «
The National Trustees, Executors and
Agency Co- of Australasia, Melbourne, paid-up capital,
£30,000 •
. . Added
Profits. Dividends. to Reserves.
Reserves.
1891.. £4535 15 per cent. = £4500 £35 £24,159
1892.. 4506 15 „ „ 4500 6 24,165
1893.. 4442 15 „ „ 4500 24,107
1894.. 2813 10 „ „ 3000 23,920
1895.. 3001 10 „ „ 3000 1 23,921
1896.. 2986 10 „ „ 3000- 23,907
1897.. 2389 8 „ „ 2400 23,896
1898.. 2390 8 „ „ 2400 23,586
1899.. 2402 8- „ „ 2400 2 23,888
1900.. 2403 8 „ „ 2400 8 23,891
1901.. 2406 8 „ „ 2400 6 23,897
1902.. 2407 8 „ „ 2400 7 23,904
The above list covers a period of 12 years. During
that period, without making any visible allowance
for possible depreciation of securities, the reserves
have been reduced by £22o—solely by paying divi-
dends which were not earned. In five years out
of the 12 the dividends exceeded earnings. Once the
reserve was encroached upon in order to pay an exor-
bitant 15 per cent, dividend, and twice to pay an almost
equally exorbitant 10 per cent. Theseare old stories, and
it wouldn’t be worth while referring to them again if the
management showed serious signs of reformation, but a
visible addition of £lB to the reserves in four years is not
serious reformation. Moreover, the intense accuracy
with which the National Trustees earns its divi-
dend, and from £2 to £7 over, leaves a possibility
of two different kinds of suspicion; One is that a special
effort has to be made each year to show sufficient profit
to pay the dividend—in which case the dividend should
be reduced. Another is that only enough profit is shown
to cover the dividend, while a remainder (amount un-
known) is being eet aside to write down depreciation


(amount also unknown) of assets. In that case the share-
holders should be taken into the confidence of the
management and told the exact position of affairs.
There may be no ground whatever for either injurious
suspicion, but if there isn’t, the coincidence by which the
earnings vary no more than £5 in four years is simply
marvellous.
» • « *
The Tasmanian Wool-Growers’ Agency Co.
(Launceston, Tas.) presents a splendidly prosperous
balance-sheet for the year which closed on 80th September,
19 >2. It is in a position to pay a dividend of 25 per cent.,
with dividend tax and bonus’to staff ; adds considerably
to its reserves; and closes the year with total reserves of
£12,098, as against a paid-up capital of only £B5OO.
• « • •
The South Australian Ostrich Co. (paid-up
capital £12,269) was registered 16j years ago, and the
swift-footed bird has kept so far ahead of the share-
holders that not one dividend has been paid, nor have the
dir -tors received any fees. Now it is stated that the
la . lialf-year “ has not been at all satisfactory." When
last heard of, the co. had 490 birds on its Port Augusta
farm. The tail of the fowl has been fetching unprece-
dently low prices of late.
* • • •
Statistician Coghlan estimates the N.S.W.
wheat crop for 1902 at 1,411,219 bushels (36 bushels to
every 10 acres). This is about one-tenth of the yield for
1901, and the smallest return since 1871. Still it is only
an estimate, and as at least one State (S.A.) has a surplus
to sell, things may not be so bad as they look. But if
they are as bad as they look, the remedy is for the State
Government to import sufficient to fill the gap (when it
imports, and pays the duty to the Australian Government,
and gets the money back again at the monthly division of
the surplus, the result is the same as if the duty was
abolished). Then it can sell at a reasonable figure—not
at cost, for to depress the price of the farmer’s little crop
to the lowest possible figure would just about complete
his ruin—and let the profits be applied towards public
works. This will eliminate the middleman. There is a
great row about the duty, but the middleman'* stealings
amount to much more than the duty.
* « • •
“The Fisheries, Limited,” nominal capital
£5OOO, is being formed. The office is at Gladstone Cham-
bers, 90 Pitt-street, Sydney, and there is a wholesale
depot at 104 Hunter-street. The co. proposes to open
shops for the sale of fresh wholesome fish in great variety
—not only N.S.W. fish, but many other varieties —
throughout Sydney and suburbs, and the speculation
ought to yield great dividends. There is no bigger want
to be filled in Sydney than an abundant supply of all
kinds of fish of a quality that is above suspicion.
* • • *
The Haymarkkt Permanent Land, Bdilding,
and Investment Go. (Sydney) concluded a better year
than the average on 15th November, 1902 :
Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1896 .. £39,682
1897 .. £452 Nil £452 40,134
1898 .. 477 Nil 477 40,611
1899 .. 1401 11 per cent. = £lO9O 311 40,922
1900 .. 2314 3 „ „ 2201 143 41,065
1901 .. 2369 3 „ „ 2271 98 41,163
1902 .. 2922 3 „ „ 2362 560 41,723
The reserves consist of reserve fund, £33,150 ; reserve for
equalisation of dividends, £5000; contingency fund,
£1500; and undivided profit, £2073. It is a pity the co.
doesn’t consolidate these and start with a reserve fund of
£40,000 clear. The earnings, though a great improve-
ment on some past records, only represent £2 9s. 3d. per
cent, on the shareholders’ funds as at the commence-
ment of the year. When a co. is doing no better than
this in a general way, it should pass its dividend if the
earnings in any one year are not equal to paying the
usual 3 per cent.—not draw on a dividend equalisation
reserve or on any other reserve. A dividend equalisation
reserve is a superfluity under such conditions.
Still, as already mentioned, the earnings show a
g*-eat improvement, and a further good point is that the
liabilities at the same time have neen greatly reduced.
The following are the net liabilities (deposits, overdraft,
&c.) to the public in late years, cash in hand and credit
bank balance being deducted :
Net Liabilities.
1897 .. £104,206 1900 .. £87,904
1898 .. 100,580 1901 .. 92,469
1899 .. 90,375 1902 .. 78,274
Taking everything into account, the outlook for the Hay-
market Permanent Land, Building and Investment Co.
seems better than it has been for a long while.
• • * •
The prospectus of a Melbourne Civil Service
Co-operative Store has been issued, and if civil servants
are not too tired and impecunious to seize the opportunity
there should be no trouble in disposing of the 20,000
shares. Proposed that all transactions shall be for cash
only. It was on a purely cash basis that the original
Civil Service Co-op. Store made its gorgeous success.
* • • •
The Castle Salt Co. (S.A.), which works the
dry lakes on Yorke’s Peninsula, has declared a shilling
dividend, the first of its career. Co. claims to have
circulated locally well over £lOO,OOO in its 4J years of
existence.
• * • •
The Broken Hill share market has fluttered in
harmony with the alternating hopes and fears concerning
the new zinc process. And at time of writing nothing
more definite can be said about that process than that it
is a complete laboratory success. In practice success
will depend to a great extent on whether the salt-
cake solution can be effectively used over and
over again. The most powerful agent in salt-cake is
sulphuric acid ; and that costs from £8 to £lO per ton.
Schnabel knew the sulphuric acid process well,
but the cost blocked him. Even without the improve-
ment in this process made by Delprat and his scien-
tific assistant, Carmichael, the situation as to sul-
phuric acid is a good deal changed. The Moonta
and Wallaroo Copper Co. is now producing over
100 tons a week ; and it is probable that the B.H.
Prop, could make its own acid. A little while back much
was said about the Oarmichael-Bradford desulphurising
process. Well, one of the things that process does is to
drive off the sulphur in the form of acid fumes,
and it was proved that these could be condensed.
The co., however, adopted the Huntington-Heberlein
desulphurising process, and experiments are now being
made to see whether the acid can be saved in this
process, too. If it can, the new zinc treatment
will get a big lift. Meantime, the co’s ; that have
the magnetic zinc-separation processes in hand are
not alarmed Their strength lies in the fact
that they don’t waste any chemicals. After three
years’ continuous experimenting on a big scale they claim
a practical success ; and there is the best of evidence that
they really believe so in the fact that a complete
new plant has been built in Germany, and is
now on the water. With these undoubtedly impor-
tant developments, with the large savings effected by
the desulphurising and sintering processes lately adopted,
with a moderate rainfall ending the fears of a water
famine; and with a lead market which, though still
weak, is a trifle more healthy-looking than it was, the
B H. Prop, closes a dismal year in comparative cheerful-
ness. The most offensive fly in its ointment is the
shockingly low price of silver and the apparent hopeless-
ness of any substantial recovery.
* • * *
Sulphide Corp. (8.H.) shares would have im-
proved more but for a rumor that there is another
reconstruction in the air. Possibly; a co. which buys
ore to smelt can very soon make or drop a pot of money.
But it is at least as likely in this case that, if more capital
is called, it will be to save bankers’ charges. The co. draws
against shipments of bullion, and it has long growled at
the price charged for the accommodation ; so it wants
to do its own three-ball business. If money is raised it
will probably be £lOO,OOO in debentures, part to be used
to provide zinc-plant at the mine.
• • • •
“Tom” (Bowen): It is questionable whether
there are two persons in N.S.VV. (not excepting mines
officials) who could correctly answer your questions.
Write to the Govt. Printer fora copy of the “Guide to
the Mining Laws ’’ for which you will'be charged Is.
• • m *
Lake George Mines (N.S.W.) chairman con-
soled shareholders, in London, the other day, by telling
them that his investigation satisfied him that as far back
as 1896 “ the mine was worked out from a paying point of
view.” This was the year in which the present co. was
formed. It paid £lOO,OOO for the mine, spent £95,000 in
developing it, and realised £151,524 from products, all of
which went back into the mine without any return being
made to shareholders. The chairman says that the mine
was so honeycombed with prospecting drives that there
ought to have been no difficulty at the outset
in determining that it could not be made a
payable proposition. Some of the experts who reported
favorably on the mine may challenge the assertion ; they
can suggest all sorts of excuses. But what explanation
can be offered by the financiers who ran the show, who
cajoled the speculating public into the belief that it
would be payable, and boomed the valueless shares to
over £3 ?
* * • •
The Shuttleton copper mine near Nymagee
(N.S.W.) has been formed into a co. called the Crowl
Greek. The prospectus would indicate that there has
been no exaggeration in the information respecting the
show which has appeared in this column. The figures
read like a fairy tale. The prospectors, as the result of a
few months' work, sold 845 tons of ore averaging 26.6 per
cent, and from March l to Oct. 31 the Melbourne syndicate
consigned 2813 tons, averaging 33.5 per cent. Assuming
that during Nov. and Dec. it disposed of the same
average quantity and quality the record for 10 months
development work will be the sale of over 3500 tons
of ore, containing nearly 1200 tons of copper,
of a gross value of about £60,0001 On 31st Oct.
there was at grass 5678 tons of “seconds,” averaging
9.8 per cent., and in the mine there was ready for stoping,
above the 170 ft. level, 22,000 tons of 8£ per cent. ore.
Since then the lode has been intersected at 240 ft., where
it is solid sulphide, assaying 20.8 per cent, for a width of
18ft. This is the show which the lucky syndicate got
hold of, on a working option, for £30,000 (the preliminary
deposit being only £1), the agreement practically pro-
viding that the money was to be earned out of the mine.
Including the neb value of ore at grass, the mine has
more than accomplished this.
• * • •
The Crovrl Creek Co. consists of 105,000 £1
shares, which is a modest capitalisation for a mine that
appears to have prospects equalling, if not rivalling, those
of the Great Cobar of the early days. Out of the 105,000
shares, 55,000 paid-up, and 25,000 contrib. paid to 25., are
to be issued to the syndicate ; 25,000 contrib. shares are
offered at a premium of 2s. 6d. on application and 2s.
(part of the capital) on allotment. This is merely a
nominal public offer, as syndicate shareholders
had the preferential right to take up the shares,
which, quite naturally, they exercised, except as
to 2500 shares, which were made available to out-
siders—soo each in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane and Launceston. To the uninitiated it may
seem an extraordinary thing that men having control of
such a remarkably good show should allow even 2500
shares to pass out of their hands, on such terms. But
the initiated will readily discern what it may mean.
There may be nothing uncommon about it. It may
signify preparation for a market move to enable the
syndicate to get rid of their contrib. shares at a big
figure. There may be the usual “pool” arrange-
ment, and, if so, it is a pool which appears
to have something unusual at the back of it—
a solid mine. To “ make ” a market for shares
there must be . a certain number not locked
up, and it is always advisable, in the interests of the
pool, that these shares should be in outsiders’ hands
for the preliminary “playing.” So far, all seems most
satisfactory for the syndicate. There is a great mine ;
account sales-which never by any mischance exaggerate
values, but may include extortionate charges—testify to
that; impartial, qualified experts unhesitatingly pro-
claim it; there is no problematical “ if,’’ no difficulty that
can be suggested ; the syndicate “stands on velvet,” and
it has made all arrangements for a grand coup.
But one thing has been overlooked : The mine is
in N.S.W. And no successful N.S.W. mine ever
got into smooth water without first of all being
buffetted hither and thither in a typhoon of law.
Growl Creek is not likely to be any exception to the rule,
unless wise counsels and a spirit of compromise prevail.
As indicated in last week’s Bulletin the law courts may
be invoked to declare who are members of the syndicate ;
that, however, would not affect the co., and need not,
necessarily, interfere with the accomplishments of the
coup. But a serious dispute has arisen between the
prospectors and the syndicate as to the interpretation of
the agreement under which the mine was sold, and if this
has to be settled by reference to the law courts it may be
many a day before any market scheme can be
worked. Terms of sale were £30,000 cash, one-fifth
paid up interest in a co. having a working capital
of not less than £50,000 £5OOO of which had to
be in the bank on the registration of the co.—this
being so much surplusage in the agreement as the law
provides for it. The prospectus, after stating that £5OOO
will be placed to the credit of the co., goes on:—“The
balance of working capital—namely £45,000 —will be
payable in calls when required, and the products of the
mine may be applicable to its development." This
italicised provision, the prospectors state, is not con-
tained in the agreement, and they contend that it is a
distinct violation of the spirit, if not the letter, of the
contract; as they interpret it, it makes their so-called
paid-up shares no more valuable than the ordinary edn-
trib. shares. So far, each side is obstinate in its assertion
of right. There are other points on which there is
difference of opinion, and the present outlook is that
Shuttleton will be a shuttlecock with which lawyers will
have much pleasurable and profitable diversion.
» • * »
The great economies which Mr. Sticht has
effected in the smelting operations at Mt. Lyell were not
brought into operation a moment too soon. A compara-
tive statement for the past three months shows a steady
decline in production, and, without the reduced costs, a
forecast, with copper at anything like present value,
would not be too hopeful for the mine. The figures
are:—
Ore. Copper. Silver. Gold.
Oct. .. 23,504 tons 467 tons 45,472 ozs. 1681 ozs.
Nov. .. 22,711 „ 430 „ 38,986 „ 1396 „
Dec. .. 21,724 „ 416 „ 38,901 „ 1408 „
• ■» * •
The “cementation,” or sea-water leaching, of
the old tailings and slimes, which was to level up the
Moonta and Wallaroo Copper Co.’s profits for the next six
years, has not been doing quite so well lately ; the stuff
has settled down too solid.
• * • •
Berry Consols Extended (Vic.), which was a
“ stringer ” for many years, and was so much of a hope-
deferred show that it sickened most of the original share-
holders, looks like soon balancing the ledger. The total
expenditure on the mine has been £318,470, wages
amounting to £156,309 ; gold has been produced to the
value of £214,314, and £75,000 was called up. To date
£41,000 has been paid in divs., last half-year accounting
for £9OOO, and it is expected that the call account will be
wiped out within the next 18 months.
The chairman of the Stannary Hills Tin Co.
evidently approves of the financial philosophy of Mi-
cawber ; the co. negotiates a p.n. to meet a liability, and
its head exultantly exclaims, “ Thank God, that is
settled.” He told the recent meeting that the “ antici-
pation of the board that they would not have to call
further on the shareholders had been realised, temporary
advances having been obtained on reasonable terms."
Stannary Hills may be a good mine, but it will have to be
equal to fancy’s painting of it to make sufficient profit
to wipe out the co.’s indebtedness.
• • • •
Tom Doyle, ex-Mayor of Kanowna (W. A.), has
just treated another lot of 18 tons of stone from his rich
leader for 2720 z. This makes the total for the year
20640 z., worth £7430, from 72 tons. The tributors, who
are working the main reef on the property, into which
the rich leader dips, got 98oz. from their first parcel of
19 tons, and expect to get 130 to 140 oz. from the second
lot of about 60 tons.
• • • *
At the meeting in London of East Fingall
(W.A.), which holds 36 acres on the east of the Great
Fingall, nothing consolatory was laid before subscribers.
The capital consists of £BO,OOO, in 320,000 shares of 6s.
each. Out of the total, 80,000 shares were set aside to
provide £20,000 working capital, hut only 26,000, pro-
viding £6500, have been subscribed for. Chairman
assured shareholders that the shaft was to he sunk to
1000 ft., and that a new battery and cyanide plant were
to be installed out of profits. Vendors were alleged to
have treated 1000 tons for £6400 from above the 70ft. level,
where they were drowned out. At this depth the mine was
said to be quite as rich as its undoubtedly rich
neighbor, the Great Fingall. It is safe to predict that
this co. will be on the reconstruction list before many
months expire.
• m * *
The latest return from the Great Oversight,
Bulong, W.A., brings up total gold won from this line
during the year to 13,2410 z. from 1587 tons. The gold
realised about £52,000, all of which, except treatment
charges,-went into the pockets of working miners. At
time of the find, a year ago, as the gold was near the
surface, the Minister of Mines refused to grant leases, and
the ground was cut up into small holdings. The original
lease from which this gold has been won was pegged out
in the early days by jingle-writer “ Dryblower ” of
Kalooorme: Sun, who made nothing out of his venture
owing to the ore being covered over with alluvial soil.
Captain Truscott, the manager of the Adelaide co. which
acquired the show, wanted to treat the whole lot in a
battery, but was vetoed by the directors. Had his advice
been followed, the rich ore would probably have been
found seven years ago.
* * * *
Queen Margaret, Bulong (W.A.), is still plod-
ding along on the original leases, without encountering
anything specially encouraging at the 700 ft. level. On
the new property, the S. Gippsland, at Vosperton, a drive
is being put in along the wall of the “sugar” reef, the
stone being left standing meantime. A pump is being
fixed in the shaft to drain it, and as soon as the water is
got under control, driving on the ree;' at the 370 ft. level
will be started. The future of the co. hinges entirely on
how this property turns out, and the management appears
pretty confident as to the result.
• * • •
North Kalgurli, which was reconstructed in
July last year with a nominal capital of 350,000 shares
with a 2s. 6d. assessment, is again getting to the end of
its tether. Of this assessment but 6d. remains to be
called, and, if fully met, this means only £8750, which
will not go far in development, not to mention the
new equipment suggested by the management. Recently
most of the exploration work has been confined to the
100 ft. and 600 ft. levels, and some fair ore has been met
with in both places. All the same, judging from the
enormous amount of money sunk on the adjoining shows,
such as the South, without tangible results, he would
indeed be an optimist who would predict success with the
small amount now available. The heavy decline in the
value of shares indicates that the market fully recognises
the situation.
• • • *
South Kalgurli is being subjected to an inspec-
tion by Boulder Hamilton, in order to try and set at rest
the doubts of shareholders. 00. is reported to have debts
amounting to £7OOO, but, as an offset, is said to have
stores valued at £9OOO and gold on plates and “ else-
where ” valued at £lO,OOO. The stores item, though very
high, may possibly be correct, but it is hardly likely that
any large quantity of gold is on the plates. These plates
are removable, and extra ones are kept to immediately
replace those withdrawn from the vats. They are taken
out at frequent intervals, and leisurely cleaned up with-
out any stoppage of the Reicken process. When manager
Isles’ locum tenens was driven to his wits’ end to main-
tain the returns, it is safe to say the plates were scrubbed
as bare as possible. Reserves of pay ore are given at two
years' supply on basis of present output, or about 90,000
tons. If this is true the difficulty in maintaining the
output is inexplicable. Hamilton’s report will be
anxiously looked for. # *
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) has at last got fairly
going, and it is quite on the cards that co. may join the
div. -payers early in the new year. Manager Loreing has
had to use the pruning-knife freely, as, for example,
the staff of accountants has been reduced from ten to
four, and storekeepers from six to two. All other depart-
ments were officered with equal lavishness. The lode
to the north in the lower levels continues unsatisfactory,
though going south it carries a lot of ore which should
prove payable on the very much reduced scale of costs
introduced by Loreing.
• * • •
Westralians “ in the know ” can’t help smiling
loudly at Mr. Wentworth Sturgeon’s yarn (as reported)
about the history of Fraser’s mine, told at a meet-
ing of Fraser’s South Extended mine in London and
intended to keep up the pecker of the shareholders in the
latter show, which is feeling sick.
■ • e •
There is a strong agitation in London mining
circles in favor of modifications of the W.A. mining laws
in the way of lessened labor-conditions, reduced dividend
tax, and the removal of various “ impositions,” which are
alleged to be a serious handicap on the industry. Also,
at the bottom of this agitation is an intended combine of
forces, with a view to an all-round reduction of wages.
It does not seem to strike the agitators that the greatest
handicap on the industry is their own abnormal greed—
as is shown in a statement of “ office expenses ” of various
co’s for the year: Horseshoe, £ll,OOO ; Boulder, £9200 ;
I van hoe, £6700 ; Lake View, £6500 ; Associated, £6OOO ;
Associated Northern, £5900; Perseverance, £4BOO ;
Fingall, £3200. The bulk of these amounts represent
directors’ fees—and what a cheeky, ignorant, useless lot
is the average London mine-director !
* * * *
Office expenses m London for 12 months of
certain Westralianminingcompanies:—Golden-Horseshoe,
£11,000; Great Boulder, £9200; Ivanhoe, £6700 ; Lake
View, £6500 ; Associated, £6000: Associated Northern
Blocks, £5900; Great Boulder Perseverance, £4800;
Great Fingall, £3200 ; Hannan’s Brown Hill, £3400 ; Sons
of Gwalia, £2050 ; Great Boulder Main Reef, £2360 ; Kal-
gurli, £2230 ; Cosmopolitan, £lB2O ; East Murchison,
£l3BO. With which compare six months’ office expenses
of four companies managed in Bendigo Central Elles-
mere Co., £56 16s. 5d.; Thomas United Co. , £ST 125.;
Daley and Weston’s Co., £49 14s. 6d; Stewart’s United,
£57 9s. Id.
• « • •
The Jewhannesburg mme-labor trouble, of which
the cables have given us a tired hint or two, is a mixed
affair. Formerly one white miner bossed two drills and
10 Kaffirs. Now, the war having delivered crowds of
unskilled white laborers into their hands, the co.’s want
the miner to boss three machines, and, for each machine,
a white “ helper ” and gang of four. Some of the miners
took it on, but most of them soon found that the “ game ”
was to use the “ helper ” to cut down the skilled man’s
pay, and a strike followed—as much of a strike, that is,
as there can be with the men unorganised. The skilled
machine-man’s pay has been big, but in the advanced
leadings especially the work has been deadly—bad venti-
lation and drill-dust knock out the strongest in four or
five years.
• • • *
Apropos the deadliness of the Rand mines,
through bad ventilation and machine-drill dust. After
the '92 strike at Broken Hill eight strapping young
Cornish-Australian miners moved out to S’Africa. Word
came through a month or so back that the last of them
was dead. And of the miners who returned to Cornwall
when the war started 600 have since died there from
“ miner’s phthisis.” The Jewhannesburg Chamber of
Mines is now offering a reward of £5OO for the suppression
of the drill-dust nuisance.
• * * •
Copper continues low in the face of conditions
which, under ordinary circumstances, would favor high
values, such as increased consumption, reduced produc-
tion, and the falling off of stocks ; in fact, the position is
remarkable, and no newspaper seems able to account for it
(writes a London correspondent). The shares of the
Amalgamated Co. have fallen considerably. One yarn is
that the big copper men of America are the buyers of big
things in London, for which big money is to be paid
shortly, and it takes them all their time to raise it with-
out creating a slump in New York. Another yarn is that
the Amalgamated Co. continues to break down the price
of copper to bring about another and much larger com-
bine. The copper men who kept out of the last combine
and made such a lot of money by doing so, are slow in
coming in, but the general opinion is that they will be
forced in sooner or later.
TRA M W AYS FOR MI IN ES.
C-rnrKQ in SYDNEY and MELBOURNE include-Steel Rails, Bridge Rails,
* 1 qYppl Side and End Tip Trucks, Portable Tramway, Portable and Permanent
Switches Ball-bearing* Turntables, Axle Boxes, Wheels and Axles, Jim Crows,
Spikes etc etc I fS| D E NTS. -LOCOMOTIVES from 10 to 400 h.p.,
including Compound Locos and every description of Light Railway Material.
CENTRAL MINING &- TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Stop lip ,40 Hukter St., SYDNEY. A. E, LEPLASTRIER Manager,
* Representing Orenstein and Koppbl, Ltd., London, Berlin and Pans.
Branches— Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania).
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne
is prepared to purchase or develops, with option of
purchase, “ bis: prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties olfered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,"
Melbourne.*
• • • •
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-street, Melbourne,
having returned from his visit to England, is now pre-
pared to purchase approved Mines and Mining Properties
situated in any part of Australasia requiring Capital ,for
Development and Machinery. Only genuine and
legitimate ventures, capable of bearing the strictest
examinations, will be entertained.*
* * * *
A revolution in smelting furnaces seems pro-
bable. The aid of gasoline has .not been recognised.
Ernest de Beer, 439 Bourke-street, Melbourne, supplies
forms to suit assayers, which are marvellous in their
efficiency.*
• • • •
Complaints of stagnation in the engineering
trade are as rife as ever, but. Judging by the large stock
of Refrigerating and Ice-making machinery now at the
engineering works of Mephan Ferguson, Melbourne, he
must expect to do a large business in these machines
during the coming summer season. The prices for all
sizes have been greatly reduced, and purchasers are
invited to inspect and test these Refrigerators before
purchasing. This firm has also introduced up-to-date
machinery for manufacturing bolts and nuts, rivets, dog
spikes and every discription of ironwork.*
• • • *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The best investment in Australia is buying land
at Esperance, Western Australia, the natural port of the
Ealgoorlie goldfields. With a railway, Esperance wili
become one of our busiest ports, as the trade with the
goldfields will pass through it. A permanent survey is
now being made. The railway is a certainty. Get in
early and make a fortune by purchasing a few blocks
before the great rush sets in. Price, £2O block ; terms,
£1 a month. Write for plans and particulars to The
Perth Land Company, 101 Swanston-street, Melbourne.*
• • •- *
The Monet Market Review, London, writes
of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society’s latest
report:—“ The report reflects cautious, vigorous,
economical and successful administration in every
department and shows that the Colonial Mutual is not
only holding but steadily improving its grip on the
public respect and confidence.”*
« • » *
The North Gippsland Proprietary Company,
Grant, have been engaged for many months past driving
a long tunnel in very hard country. The tunnel is now
some 2500 ft. in length. The last 1500 feet has been
driven with the aid of the Gardner Electric Rock Drill
which has given the manager every satisfaction ; only
one drill has been in use and it is still working in as good
condition as when first started. About 35 feet of drilling
is done by it every shift, so the installation of the Electric
Drill must be regarded as in every way successful. The
drill requires less than two horse power to drive it as
against at least 10 horse power required for an air driven
drill doing the same work, besides dispensing with com-
pressor, receivers and air pipes. The fact that this
Electric Drill has been working so satisfactorily in one
of the most inaccessible parts of Victoria is sufficient
proof that the plant is not liable to derangement. The
sole Agents for the Gardner Electric Drill are the Austral
Otis Engineering Company, South Melbourne, who will
be pleased to answer all inquiries.*
* • * *
In 10 years the number of mining co’s. floated
in Great Britain was 2979, having a nominal capital of
£453,400,000 ; 244 “ made some return to the share-
holders,” and 2375 gave no return. In the four years
preceding 1900 no less than 1148 co’s. (capital £123,000,000)
went into liquidation. It is stated that “ the chief cause
of these failures has been the payment of excessive com-
mission to promoters, the effect being to make England
a bad market for good ventures.”
“Burglar Bill ” on the elevating influence
of N.S.W. gaol-life:—
Much has been written lately on the reforming influ-
ence of our modern gaol treatment, but old-time warders
will tell you that the prisoners under the old system,
although rough as regards methods of expressing dis-
satisfaction with their treatment, were withal manly.
A “smooger,” ready to carry information to the
governor re fellow-prisoners or warders, was of
yore an exception; now he is the rule. The
new system encourages the “ pimp,” the higher
officials of the gaol encourage him ; under the
old system a spy would receive as his reward “ seven days
dark ” (many of the old-fashioned gaol governors would
give it to him now), but the new governors under the
new system protect him and he becomes a model show
prisoner of the Uriah Heep order. As instancing the
lack of manliness in prisoners, I have seen a certain high
official, during “ lock-up” search, place half-a-crown in the
hands of three different prisoners, giving them instruc-
tions to hold the coin between their fingers during the
search. In two cases out of three the unfortunate
warders omitted to search the outstretched hands and
were promptly reprimanded, while the prisoner, after this
lesson in manliness, had the half-crown taken from him
and was locked up for the night. Surely self-respect has
entirely left men who sing to a lady visitor selections
from hymns specially picked for them ! The “ smooger”
rules ; the rebel, 100 per cent, abetter man, is persecuted
because he cannot bend himself to the cringing methods
that stamp the “model prisoner.” Certainly everyone
must admit, that the gaols of N.S.W. were never in a
better state as regards order than now, but the elevating
influence had better be spoken of in a whisper; it can
hardly- bear a strong breath.
INSIST OH GETTING.
__ Mango,
-A- ♦
All eTe.
pes
Famous for over a Century
Supplied to Royalty for over 63 years.


SOCIEIY
THE FORGIVENESS OF JONES.
[For Tiib Bulletin.]
Now, ’tis the holy Christmas morn
When Earth draws nigh to Heaven ;
Yet sadly here I walk in fear
That I may be Forgiven.
Last spring I owned a noble friend ;
Our hearts did close entwine.
Our bite and sup was from one cup—
That cup was always Mine.
A soul of haughtiness and pride
Was Jones’s lifelong curse.
To mitigate this fault so great
He vowed to share my purse.
He borrowed with a prinoely mien
(As one that played a part);
But when no more I’d yield my store
He thrust me from his heart.
Tis three months since my comrade wept
His high ideal fled ;
My pay-day’s due—l whisper you—
This merry morn I dread l
I fear the softening mood of Jones
May urge “ ’Tis Christmas Time,
When wandering sheep and villains deep
Are whitened of their crime 1
"This is the season sinful maids
Are pardoned by their sires 1
To show a mind as broad and kind
My soul, though proud, aspires !
“ No more this erring man I’ll shun ”
(His voice will falter here).
" I’ll seek him out; I’ll let him shout;
And—yes—l’ll drink his beer 1 "
And so this morn of peace and Joy
My heart a tremor owns ;
I fear to meet in road or street
The pardoning smile of Jones.
O. Cltdh.
WITHOUT THE FRAME.
Auctioneer : “ What, gentlemen I fifteen shillings
only I am, offered ? Why, the picture a ' one
is worth that money.”
It is a solemn, sad, sorrowful fact that
the rain came to Australia at last just when no
sect was holding special services about it. For
years past there have been periodical days of
prayer and days of humiliation, and days of
special clamor, and the mocking heavens still
hung like a fried gallows over our heads, and the
earth was like a hob under our feet. The sects
seemed at last to give it up ; anyhow no one has
heard for quite a long time about special days of
prayer. Then the rain came like a damp, dis-
creditable slanderer in the night and a wet back-
biter at noon. It came as an aspersion on the
sects and the creeds, and as a mockery and an
insult. It fell on the bishop’s palace and the
vicarage and the presbytery and the manse like the
howl of a lost opportunity. No church had
done anything sufficiently special for months to
enable it to claim, with any fair prospect of be-
lief, that it brought about the downpour. The
church had been too busy looking into its own
diminished rain-barrel to do anything. And,
therefore, a chance such as comes but once in a
dozen ye ars is Gone, like the kitten that ate too
many locusts last year and gave up the ghost-
gone as completely as Premier John See’s chance
of borrowing £10,000,000 at 3 per cent.—gone like
Bent s manners and Pompey’s bones, and other
utterly lost-and-gone things that are too gone to
be even remembered.
* * » *
The Cardinal comes down on the bubble
and squeak of Dill-Mackyism like a heavy damper.
It is an unholy wave of agitation, says he,
? n P ass * Which is true enough; but
it will make a good many things wet and uncom-
fortable ere the passing is accomplished. And it
might never have arisen in its present shape and
face had the Cardinal at all times and seasons
kept a little closer to the exact truth ; or when he
found that a mistake had been made, evinced a
more civilised readiness of apology.
* » * ■
To The Bulletin's queries to Dr. Dill-
Macky:—
Should Catholics have a vote at all ? Should Catholics
be admitted to Parliament, to the Ministrv, and to the
Public Service?
An anonymous correspondent an Dill-Macky’s
paper, The Watchman, comes forward with a
reply which is a complete exposure of the true
nature of the so-called “Protestant Defence”
movement. The Watchman writer says :
To give Romans a vote is a dangerous absurdity. . . .
Cromwell was logical when he treated the Romanists as
enemies of the State. . . . The Roman Catholic in Aus-
tralia is really an alien. ... No R.G. should be allowed
in the Education Department.
That 8 quite straightforward. People can now
Bee what is aimed at—disfranchisement of R.C.’s,
and then, perhaps, the logical step of a wholesale
Cromwellian massacre of them.
* • • ■
The latest development of what may be
called sectarian nationalism in Melbourne is a
North of Ireland Association. Pretty well all
the well-fed inhabitants of Australian cities, who
don’t call themselves English, are members of
some national sect or other, and even the English-
man hreaks out into Cornish and Yorkshire and
Lancashire societies, though it is mostly the out-
side corners of Bull’s country which do that sort
of thing. By the way, when is the A.N.A. going
to break into bitter rival sections ?
• * • •
Lo, the poor parson in the thickest of the
hatter battle ! Canon Boyce, none other, full of
fear and trembling for the glorious Empire and
the blessed Church. If the hatters are blocked,
asks the Canon, how will bishops, priests, and
deacons fare ? Poor Canon ! He has never read
the Act, nor yet the facts of the case which has
arisen under it. Bishops do not labor with their
hands, albeit they wear aprons. Deans, priests,
and deacons know nothing of manual labor,
though they may sport shovel hats ; and the
truculent canon goes off in a strangely-drunken
fashion, though strong drink and he are and ever
have been strangers. He has some brethren on
the daily press similarly explosive just now.
* * * *
Admiral Harry Rawson has all the ad-
vantage of a man who has made up his mind on
everything. Not about fleets and squadrons and
Trinity House only, but in those higher matters
where philosophers ponder and divines wrangle, he
is calm, assured, positive. “Countries which do
not re3peet religion do not prosper.” That’s the
way to get the Doubt-Devil in a bow-line. And
yet, Admiral Harry, there are countries called
Spain and Austria, and—lreland, where religion
is respected up to the limits of possibility, and yet
the corresponding degree of prosperity is not very
plain. And there are others —France, whiehsofar
dissembles its respect as to kick the whole box of
tricks out of doors; and U.S. A., which makes the
Cathedral its easy-chair and the chapel its foot-
stool, and they seem to prosper beyond the
average.
* * *
A Bulletin correspondent :
Saw a beautiful example of Railway-Minister Bent’s
benign rule at a big Melbourne suburban station yester-
day. The staff has been sr curtailed that one porter sells
tickets, collects tickets at the gate, and sees trains safely
off the premises every 10 minutes. At lunch-time yester-
day, this pampered official had to quit his booking-office
with seven people still clamoring for tickets, and he hadn’t
time to shut the gate to rope-in the passengers who left
the train, so 20 or more thus escaped. In his rush to
prevent any more from getting through, he had to let the
train pass out with five of the carriage-doors swinging
open—a danger to people on the platform and passengers
inside. Thomas might be able to get some more of his
Brighton election-committee to report, at £1 a day, upon
the dastardly neglect of his duties by the suburban porter
m question.
• • • •
The ever-poor parson! Modern Thought,
organ of Pastor George Walters’ Australian
Church, Sydney, prints this :
Scene—The 1.0.0. P. Temple.
Time—Sunday evening Lantern Lecture.
Act 1: Enter two working men, one in soft shirt, and
with no collar.
Each one says “ Thank you ” for copy of Modern
Thought, and each contributes sixpence to the offertory
Act 2 : Enter Leading Citizen, accompanied by his wife
and two young ladies.
Each takes a copy of Modern Thought, but forgets, in
the excitement, to say “ Thank you 99 ; and while Leading
Citizen contributes threepence, the ladies enter upon the
strength of the same—an average of three farthings each.
See Luke vi., 24.
ANOTHER STRING TO HER BOW: A
REMINISCENCE OF “ RATIONALE"
AND THE CYCLING BOOM.
YOUNG TRICYCLIST “ Mayn't I take off my
dress an’ ride like those ladies?”
GOVRRNESS : “ Certainly not; you must not go
unclothed in the street .”
YOUNG TRICYCLIST (with feminine persistency):
“But, then, I should have as many clothes
on as they have.”
Letter written to the local orphan asylum
committee by a casual widow of Ballarat:—
Dear Sirs,—l just write you a line in regard to marry-
ing. I have the offer of marriage, but the gentleman
that wants to marry me does not want to be held respon-
sible in keeping my children, but he will marry me if you
are willing to grant what he wants to do, and'that is he
will give the orphanage the sum of £3O not to be held
responsible after. So, dear sirs, I hope you will consider
the matter.—Yours truly, .
Talk about the beauty and durability of maternal
affection !
• * * *
* • • •
Be the fate of churches (“Nardo,” 8.,
29/11/’O2). In the fashionable Melbourne
suburb of Hawthorn is a church which was
bought outright, a few years ago, by a local
pastry-cook, and is now used by him as his
bakehouse and storeroom. The church—a
large brick building—lias a memorial stone,
with the words “This stone was laid by
Hon. W. F. Walker, M.L.A., Minister of
Customs, 25th Oct., 1886,” inscribed in
large gilt letters. The church’s notice-
board is still standing at the side,
giving the times of service, weather-
stained, but still readable. The pastry-
cook has added a wooden building on to the back
of the church, whereupon the public is informed
(in large black letters) that “catering is a
speciality,” and that “ goods are lent on hire,” &c.
* « * *
There is to be litigation over Sydney’s
garbage-destructor—and some interesting muni-
cipal revelations. The present Mayor has refused
to allow the points at issue to be referred to private
arbitration ; he wishes to have the matter venti-
lated in the law-courts. It certainly needs venti-
lation—it Stinks Aloud.
Some N.S.W. in-
sane figures. Causes of
madness in 1901 (out of
total of asylum admis-
sions and re-admissions,
771): Alcoholic intem-
perance, 74 ; worry and
overwork, 27 ; religious ex-
citement, 14 ; opium, 5 ; love,
7 ; vice (of various sex sorts)
23. These are the causes for
which the patient is, so to
speak, responsible, and leave
out of the question epilepsy,
brain-disease, etc. There
are 4272 persons in N.S.W.
asylums. Unmarried men
seem to be twice as liable
to insanity as married
men ; unmarried
women only exceed
married ones in the in-
sane asylums by 10 per
cent. Proportionately to
population, Roman Catholics
predominate in the N.S.W.
asylums. Nearly 50 per cent,
of the cases are other than
N.S.W. natives. As regards occupations, miners,
laborers, seamen and shepherds contribute 1570
to the total of insane persons, domestic servants
633, “no occupation ” 700, commercial men 223,
agriculturists and pastoralists 183, professional
men only 70.
* * * •
Sydney Mayor Hughes got his second
term of office deservedly, but on a poor pre-
text. S.M. Herald, for instance, made his
chief claim for re-election rest on the fact that as
he had had the enjoyment of the new gaudy tag
to the Mayorship for so brief a period, it was
desirable he should have it for longer. If the
Mayor were elected by the citizens in general
they could get at such rubbish and pelt it with
old bottles and jam-tins.
IN PUSH SOCIETY.—MARRIED FOR
KEEPS.
Sissie : “ Lot's o' the blokes what marries nowa-
days can't keep a wife.”
HARRY: "Dicken! The real trouble with lots o'
blokes what marry nowadays is that they can't
get rid o' them.”
A WOMAN’S WAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Waiting before the judgment stand
Two souls—the woman’s and the man’s—
The Recording Angel reads aloud :
“ A glimpse of happiness had she,
Years of neglect and misery.
The cause —the man before you bowed.”
The woman pleads : “ Oh God ! like me.
Blot out the years of misery ;
Remember only I owe to him
The little happiness I knew
On earth—his love—ah God 1 *tis true.”
They pass unseen ; God’s eyes are dim.
H. E.
DAVID JONES & CO.
s. .
/
' ' S '
Genuine
Panamas
SPECIAL PURCHASE
FINE GRADE
HAND SELECTED
17/6 AND 21/- EACH
George & Barrack Sts., Sydney
AMATEUR
PHOTOGRAPHY
How to enjoy
A HOLIDAY.
I No Previous knowledge Required. I
Amateur Photography is growing more and more in favor
throughout the civilised world. Formerly lovers of the
beautiful tried to garner up the choice views of Nature by
sketches with the pencil. Now, by using any one of . .
HARRINGTON’S
—CAMERAS
They obtain not only the Outlines, but the detail.
WITHOUT A CAMERA the enjoyment of your holiday ceases with your excursion ticket.
WITH A CAMERA Photographic Records are easily obtained and the same Holiday Excursion may be oft-
times repeated with the indulgence of your friends AT HOME.
Visit our Showrooms OR WRITE for New Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
Cameras of every up-to-date Size, Grade, and Style from
7/6, 10 6, 12/6, 15/-, 21/-, 25 -, 30/-, 35 -, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-, 80/-, 90/-, 100/- to £5O
HARRINGTON and CO., LTD.,
Leading Photographic Merchants,
Agents in all the Principal Centres.
66 King Sf., Sydney
Branch : 93 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.


Queensland spends £2O 16s. per head to
educate the superior youths of a certain grammar
school against an average of about £3 10s. on each
State school pupil throughout the State. And out
in the Q. bush there are hundreds of towzled,
unkempt kiddies running wild for lack of the
elements of education. “No money for fresh
provisional schools ” sounds queer to anybody
who knows that the Q. Government has spent no
less than £275,000 on secondary education.
• * • #
An indignant legislator was holding forth
on the wrongs of Queensland female teachers who
have to go into the heart of the lonely bush to
take charge of provisional schools. It was, how-
ever, urged in defence of the system that female
provisional school teaohers got married more
rapidly than any other class in the community ;
that tne more lonely the district the more likely
they were to get settled down, and that, from one
school on the Warrego, no less than eight female
teachers had got married in three years. That
settled all the talk about the alleged grievance.
* * * *
“Alba’* speaks quite decidedly on the
school-marm marrying question :
The wail of “ A.0.H.” (Bulletin, Oct. 30, ’O2) as to the
small percentage of female teachers who marry, with the
reason given—their lack of opportunity to display their
charms —is ludicrous. What class of women has more holi-
days wherein to find, if so disposed, opportunities to charm
man? Asa matter of fact, the average “school-marm’*
is too wary to give up a good salary and plenty of holi-
days to settle down to a wash-and-scrub, cook-and-clean,
mind-the-baby-in-between existence. She objects to
becoming a Mary Ann, without even the privileges of
that lady. When men learn to treat their wives as wives,
and not as domestic servants, there will be no reluctance
on the part of the “ school-marm ” or any other “ marm ”
to marry ; neither will there be any need for The Bulletin
to make its nose red weeping over a falling birth-rate.
* • * *
It would be interesting to know who are
the actual proprietors of the Public School
teachers’ paper, known as the N.S.W. Educa-
tional Gazette. It is supposed to be owned by
a committee, who are stated to be mostly officials
connected with the Education Department. There
is nothing in this, of course, but if the paper is
oibsidised by the Department, then there is reason
for inquiry.
ACCOMMODATION WANTED.
R[?]DE NEWSBOY “Say, Mister, lend us ycr
stum[?]mick for the day, I’m goin ’ to the noose-
boys' picnic.”
One of Melbourne’s alien population—a
Sicilian dealer in fruit —was sued by a compatriot
last week on account of sundry libellous utter-
ances in Sicilian dialect. Under cross-examina-
tion, defendant’s amanuensis admitted to having
written one letter in “verse” to the following
effect: —“You are nothing but a pure miserable.
You are like a stunted mullet. You ought to
dispose of yourself, having a face like a dead dog.
I don’t want to say any more, as I could filth you
too much. I do not prolong this poetry any
longer, as everybody knows you are a heap of
filth.” The bards of modern Italy appear to draw
their inspiration from decayed fruit and shell-
fish.
* • • •
k recent Melbourne sensation was the
sudden going mad of a young man of 26 while
receiving a music-lesson. He was described by
the lady who taught him as a most talented and
promising pupil, and everything went smoothly
till he tried to choke his teacher in the middle of
the lesson. Then he shattered her establishment
with an axe, raging from room to room and
3miting with a fury that in five minutes left hardly
a breakable unbroken in the wljole premises ; set
the establishment on fire; howled several times,
and finally fled on his bicycle. Music-teaching is
none too good a game at any time. When
demented pupils wreck the establishment it is no
game at all.
Writes “ Ban ” :
Maoriland means Prohibition. Recent Option polls
resulted in a wholesale victory for the Pump party.
Clutha, the one dry district in M.L., retains No-License
by 2100 to 1300; Ashburton, Port Chalmers, Mataura,
Bruce, and Newtown (suburb of Wellington) have refused
further license, and 11 other districts, including godly
Dunedin, have reduced the number of existing licenses.
The Prohibition vote in total exceeds that for Continu-
ance by 13,000 for the whole country, though the former
has been weakened by the two issues open—Reduction
and No-License. Three-fifths of the total number of
voters must vote for No-License to carry the proposal in
any district, but Reduction can be carried by a bare
majority. “ The Trade ” have only themselves to blame
for the results of this poll. Their continual and bare-
faced defiance of the laws regulating their business has
disgusted most of the decent people in M.L. Universal
Prohibition is confidently prophesied by Cold Water
enthusiasts at next poll. At present the Prohibition
vote is reckoned a very strong factor in M.L. politics.
In Christchurch the champion of beer, W. _W.
Collins, was beaten, although returned at previous
elections ; the Prohibition candidates were returned
first and second respectively. The R.C. party fight
for the trade tooth and nail, and say that under
Prohibition they won’t be able to get any wine for Mass,
or something of the sort. The R.C.’s plumped for
liquor-man Collins, although he is the Freethought
orator of Christchurch. In a case like this, beer is
thicker than religion. Probably the whole liquor diffi-
culty could be solved by nationalising the trade, and
thereby putting it into law-abiding and disinterested
hands.
To which latter clause The Bulletin saya
“ Amen ! ”
• • • •
A couple of years ago, when the military
microbe pervaded Australia, a returned cohen-
tingenter taking his seat in a theatre was a sight
for the gods. He generally strode slowly down
the aisle, chose his seat with much deliberation,
turned two or three times to look around him,
and then fell into profound abstraction —as
if gazing in imagination across the distant veldt.
Suddenly, then, he would wake up, and settle him-
self down, satisfied that he was the object of the
“house’s” admiration. But now!—if a swaddy
shows prominently in a theatre he is guved by
the gods and ignored by the rest of the audience.
Recognising this lamentable state of things, the
returned farm-burners of Ballarat intend shortly
holding a banquet, ostensibly to commemorate
some event in S’Africa, but really in order to get
the limelight upon themselves once again. And
if, at the shivoo, any of the heroes gets overcome
by his “ feelings,” he can retire to the square in
Sturt-st. and there, gazing on the foundation-
stone of the proposed soldiers’ memorial, can
meditate upon the grievous slump in militarism,
evidenced by the fact that, though said stone was
laid by little York tw,o years ago, the statue
is still unerected and likely to stay so.
• • • •
Present high price of meat in Australia
is largely a “ fake” ; a ring of butchers keeps up
the prices locally, whilst, in some cases, carcases
are being exported for sale abroad at much lower
rates. In Sydney, the faker is helped by Free-
trade papers for party political purposes, so that
dear meat can be identified with Federation.
• • • •
From the Fiery Cross, the organ of the
Scottish Jacobites and Australia’s
old friend Theodore Napier:—
But why, it may be asked, has the
ceremony of the “ King’s Champion ”
been abolished at his Coronation ?
It is from a lurking dread that his
gauntlet might be picked up and
his challenge accepted? We be-
lieve this to be the true reason ;
for we have it on good authority
that had the “ King’s Cham-
pion ” thrown down his gage
challenging all opponents to
the right of his master, Edward
VII., that a lady of title pre-
sent would have picked it up
in the name of 11. M. Queen
- Mary Theresa, and forthwith
have named some gentleman
as her champion, who would
have entered the lists in op-
position to the champion of
the usurper. But the deci-
sion not to carry through
this ancient custom has
prevented a very interesting
event taking place ; which,
we believe, would have been
seized upon by the Jacobite
party as an opportunity of vin-
dicating the regal rights of
the exiled legitimate Royal
Family.
* * •
Truly the days of Bill
and Jim are passed, and the
fancy names of the Young
Ladies’ Companion are all
over the birth registers. Nine
youths, who passed a Sydney
University exam, t’other day, car-
ried these names among them: —
Carlisle, Launcelot, Morrice, Regin-
ald, Christian, Archdall, Yero, Wal-
ford, McDiarmid, Gerald, and Keith.
• m * *
Reported from Mackay that a Chinese
leper —Mackay always has on hand a tame
Chinese or Kanaka leper —was mysteriously
smuggled on board a coasting steamer on King’s
Birthday and sent to Townsville for transhipment
to the leper settlement at Friday Island. The
Queensland sup-press declares said leper to be a
myth, but carefully smothers the fact that in the
middle of November a vessel left Townsville for
Friday Island with five Kanaka lepers and one
Chinese. During three years over 100 Kanakas
as “ suspected of having leprosy ” have been de-
ported to the islands, and Townsville now boasts
a leper village at the mouth of Ross River, within
two miles of Flinders-street. Yet the Boodle-
wraith still barracks for its Polynesian pets.
* • * •
The results of female contempt for the
majesty of the Law are sometimes pathetic as
well as humorous. At Bairnsdale (Yic.), t’other
day, the 70-year-old widow of a grazier was taken
to the local lock-up on the sheriff’s warrant for
having disobeyed a Supreme Court order re
the production of certain documents. The lock-
up having no fitting accommodation for a decent
old woman, an attempt was made to shift the
prisoner to the gaol at Sale, but the gaol authori-
ties wouldn’t accept her So the weary ancient,
when last heard of, was shaking her poor old head
at the lock-up keeper, and protesting that she
didn’t know what the Law meant by it. No
power on earth could persuade any grazier’s
widow that she deserves imprisonment for doing
as she chooses with the papers of her deceased old
man. Woman is her own Supreme Court of
Appeal every time.
IRREVERENCE.
THE COUBTt (in a deep voice): “ Prisoner at the
bar, after long and patient investigation you
have been found guilty, by a jury of your
countrymen, of the heinous crime of murder.
Have you anything to say ? ”
Convicted Homicide: “ Yes, yer Honor; I just
want to express the ’ope that yer Honor won't
attend the hexecution in that wig.”
(His Honor, who is usually good for 75 minutes
of eloquent admonition before passing sentence,
is quite broken up, and merely orders prisoner to
be taken away and hanged as early as possible).
London Daily Chronicle, commenting
on the number of gilded shepherds who had the
refusal of the bishopric of Melbourne ere Canon
Lowther Clarke accepted the billet, suggests in
a satirical tone —“It can hardly be possible that
churchmen have turned their backs on Melbourne
because the stipend is small in comparison with
the chances of useful work.” The fact is, of course,
that poor old Field Flowers Goe was a notorious
failure as Bishop of Melbourne, and the prospect
of having to shake things up, commercially
speaking, for a wage which is not very fat
(considering the “calls” that will be made upon it)
frightened the man who said “ No” to the offer,
A good many dignified clergymen are capable of
working hard for a big salary, or working a little
for a small family, but the number of high-toned
shepherds who will toil without hope of increasing
their bank account, is nowadays a limited and
diminishing quantity. Rev. Lowther Clarke is
probably “ blessed with this world’s goods ” out-
side of his professional practice—like ex-Bishop
Goe. Perhaps he is a brainy man of action,
which Dr. Goe wasn’t. In that case, he has his
work cut out to raise capital for the Bishop of
Melbourne’s’fund, and relieve the pitiable necessi-
ties of obscure country parsons, who are expected
to save the souls of four scattered parishes and
support a wife, family, and horse on about 455. a
week.
* • • *
London Chronicle :
The talk about a batch of Australian peerages seems to
have died out now that the Coronation has passed with-
out any creations. It is a grievance with a certain
section of Australians that this mark of distinction has
not been made in their direction, seeing that Canada has
been profusely honored in this way.
Who are the Australians who nurse a grievance
that they are not peers—beerman Tooth, ship-
master M’Eacharn, and drainsman Fitzgutter ?
» * * *
A woman correspondent to Sydney D.T.,
bewailing the filthy long skirt of her sex, suggests
a remedy:—
Could we not demand of the Health authorities that
they move to make it a punishable offence for anyone to
wear any garments that come into contact with the
ground ? We fine man for expectorating on the pave-
ment ; why should we not fine a woman for wiping up
the dirt with her dress and spreading it over our carpets
and hanging it up in the wardrobes when she returns
home? The more one considers the question, the more
is one amazed that any clean-minded, intelligent woman
can adopt a custom the consequences of which must fre-
quently be, not only unspeakable, but unthinkable.
In short, if woman is to be reformed, it will only
be by dragging her from her dirty habits with the
strong arm of the law. Her slavery to Fashion
will keep her insanely insanitary otherwise. It’s
an awkward confession to make whilst the first
rolls of female voters is being prepared.
• * * •
Illavvarra (N.S.W.) miners appear to be
tired of some recent legal enquiries into colliery
management and clamor for an investigation by
“ competent men ” — i.e., by men acquainted with
colliery work. Govt. Geologist Pittman, after
consultation with the Under-Sec. for Mines, de-
scribed as “ harassing the Dept.” the action taken
by Jonathan May, a skilled expert, for better
methods. “If,” retorted Mr. May,
the efforts which, at the Glebe inquiry, proved : (1)
The existence of the brattice trick ; (2), the unreported
burning of Mr. Weir ; (3), the partial suffocation of Mr.
Taft; (4), the dismissal of a deputy for reporting gas—be
harassing the Mines Department, there must be some-
thing seriously wrong either with that department’s ideas
of duty or my own. I should certainly, as a matter of
duty and honor, be compelled to repeat my every action
in the Glebe matter under similar conditions.
• • * •
Writes an evil-minded correspondent:
Removing “dead horses,” etc., is not a bad game at
present if one has the connection. The “ highest price
given” is usually only mentioned in the advt., the
removal being considered adequate payment. One
Sydney dead-horse yard took £7 10s. in a recent week
retailing horseflesh for dogs’-meat, customers all
calling at the yard. Another long drought might estab-
lish the “cats’-meat” man in Australian capitals.
Re the alleged use of horseflesh in cheap restaurants.
“ Dead horse removers ” also take away condemned cows,
bullocks, &c., and, although I have asked repeatedly for
beef instead of horseflesh in my daily dog’s supply, I am
always told by the dead-horse man that “ he can do
better than that with beef.’’ Horseflesh costs Id. a lb. ;
what better can he do with dead-cow meat ? Sausages, I
see, keep at about the same old price level.
That was a well-deserved three months’
hard that an Albury Bench recently handed out
to a resident for cruelty to a horse. The kindly
soul had bound the nag, with fencing-wire round
the neck and loins, side-on to a fence, and was
belting it savagely with a trace. Through the
wretched horse’s efforts to free itself its neck and
body were deeply cut with wire.
• • * *
Complained in N.S.W. Assembly the
other night that “the Attorney-General had
written to certain stipendiary magistrates, for-
bidding them to make any general observations
from the Bench.” But should not the action be
applauded, even if it were extended to Supreme
and District Court Judges? The law is fre-
quently brought to contempt by the “extra-
judicial” remarks from the Bench, the little
discursive essays on things which have
nothing to do with the case, that a Jus-
tice Madden or a Justice G. B. Simpson
indulge in. Usually a Judge knows a good deal
about law; he is chosen for that; very often he is
deplorably ignorant in some other respects,_ and
when he airs his views on his weak points,
the ears of Midas peep from under the judicial
wig and take from it all its reverence. Every
judicial person, from the J.P. up to the Chief
Justice, should, when on the bench, abstain from
“general observations.”
• • • «
Ifc is part of the dignity of being a J.P.
that a constable must touch his hat to you. A
N.S.W. man of pronounced “ Green ” views lately
had himself J.P.-ed, avowedly so that the local
constable, who was “Orange,” and hated him,
should have to salute him. He spends most of his
spare time now in promenading before the miser-
able bobby and seeing that his hat is duly hoisted.
« * • •
Even the “honorarium” of Victoria has
his “good days.” A couple of them at Melb.
City Court lately awarded “12 hours” to an un-
unfortunate German caught stealing fowls, and
then handed over the dead poultry to his sick
wife and children, for whom he had stolen them.
It wasn’t law —it was the sort of good-natured
justice that so extensively prevailed in New York
in the times of the Knickerbockers.
• * •
There was in a recently-tabled N.S.W.
Parliamentary report a striking illustration of the
relative strength of the public demand for the
unskilled male laborer and the domestic Susan.
Of 5613 males registered in 12 months the Govt.
Labor Bureau found work for only 195 with pri-
vate employers; while in its first four months
666 employers went to the Govt, female registry
seeking “ generals,” and found only 354, of various
sorts, to choose from.
* * * *
A petition praying that the death sentence
passed on the Kenniffs be commuted to imprison-
ment is being largely signed in Brisbane and
elsewhere. Comparison with the case of Selina
Sangal—about whose guilt there was no doubt,
while the K.’s were condemned on circumstantial
evidence only—has caused a mild revulsion of
feeling up north.
THE GARDEN SCENE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My Marguerite ! Just for a little while
I hold you pillowed in my arms, content
In a sweet semblance of abandonment;
Your lips half-parted in a loving smile,
And your dear eyes drawn-lidded, to beguile
My soul, wherein a life’s great longing’s pent
Is it not false—nay, more—irreverent,
To feign that all is but a singer’s wile ?
Swathed in the softness of your unbound hair,
I listen to your heart’s loud voluntary,
And fondly would imagine Love is there.
If I should dare so much as question thee
With tremulous kiss, let answering kisses rare
Thrill me with passion’s sweet sincerity.
MELB.
TEOROLS SALRYNPLH.
Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address.—
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-streeb
or King-street, Sydney.*
Ladies ! —Send to Craig and Aitken for suitable
presents for gentlemen; silver-mounted briars and
meerschaum pipes, smokers’ companions, cigar and
cigarette cases, silver-mounted and plain ; silver-mounted
match-boxes, walking sticks, &c., &c. You can depend
on Craig and Aitken sending you the very best
value. In cigars, C. and A. have boxes of 25 from 4s 6d,
5s (id, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d. Boxes of 50, from
7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d. The celebrated Bellar Rothschilds
25 for 10s 6d. K and B High Life, the only genuine
imported High Life, 17s 6d per 100. Real Havanas from
30s, 35s and 40s per 100. All the above quotations are
post free. Razors from 3s 6d each. The celebrated Plum
Razor, guaranteed for two years. Hair brushes, shaving
mugs, brushes, knives, &c. Write Craig and Aitkren.*
SILVER STAR STARCH.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
£ IO OS"ESS lIVER
ty'% and * '
Troubles.


A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, December 23, 1902.
Mr Dicar Arini—
Please take the old, old wish about Xmas and
New Year as wished. I have just got a post-card
with a spray of flowering Xmas-bush gummed to
the back. The P.O. officials must have fairly
nursed it, as the spray is undamaged. Christmas
night and the nights following will see the usual
wrestling with the heavenly maid at Sydney
Town Hall and various churches. It will be
mostly of a sacred character.
At Sydney Grammar School, after Gov. Rawson
had distributed the prizes, he said some words
that went straight to the boys’ hearts. When he
was a lad, at Marlborough College, he had a great
ambition —not to do any work—(cheers from
ambitious boys). Whatever success he had
was due to his being on the right spot
at the right time; “he happened to be there,”
as one at the Tivoli used to sing. But he, in
effect, urged the boys not to do as he had done,
but to do as he told them—to work. It’s all very
fine and modest of the old man-of-war to ascribe
to luck such success, for instance, as being
appointed Gov. of this rather dry State, with its
finely-situated and . hideously laid-out capital.
There were scores of others on the spot when the
hour struck, but S’Harry was picked. And not
for his bushy eyebrows, certainly.
If, as one of my Melbourne correspondents
wrote last week, “ George Egerton,” the writer of
“Keynotes,” “Discords,” and other undraped-
soul-and-naked-truth books, which even yet have
a huge audience, be really in the Victorian capi-
tal, it may interest her to know that some rela-
tives of one of her husbands —the Clairmonte one—
are ih Sydney and eager to see her. “George
Egerton’s ” maiden name, according to the
Literary Year Book, was Dunn (her father was
Capt. Dunn) and she was born in Melbourne at the
close of the Maori war. She divorced one hus-
band, another died, and the third, whom she
married about a year ago, is a Dr. Bright.
Talking of the inverted-eye type of fiction. It
was bad enough whilst its exponents were women,
but now men are writing it under feminine pen-
names. The bold things! If men don’t mind,
they’ll lose the reverential respect and esteem
with which women have pretended to regard them.
A few years ago, one of the most gifted men in
this State said to me, when under financial
stress, “I’ve a good mind to write a some-
what improper book, sign it with a woman’s
name, and so retrieve my fortunes. ” He joked
better than he knew, for, since then have
come “An Englishwoman’s Love Letters”
(written by a man) and “The Confessions of a
Wife” (the writer of this last has not yet proclaimed
himself— he signs “Mary Adams.”) It is not
written with a woman’s hand, but with a man’s
foot—bunions on it at that. Why didn’t he take
the pyjamas off his own soul and write about
that ? But, then, a man’s soul doesn’t seem to be
of any value on literary ’Change. The ' ‘ wife, ”in
the “Confessions,” has all the furniture for
misery (and a story)—a soul, a husband, a horrid
baby, and a nasty dog. She puts on all the airs
of having invented matrimony. She is always
begging her husband “ to try to understand her,”
or informing him that Marion (the baby) “ has one
of her bad throats.” She cries whole forenoons
locked in her bedroom, then writes her hus-
band long, soul-grilling letters, and sends
them to his office. He comes home at six
as usual, and kisses her as usual. She recollects
that his kiss is “not rapturous” (but merely
“as usual ”), and off she goes again analysing,
torturing, questioning her soul ana his. And all
the time the man is a nice, natural, well-
bred, manly man who loves her. In the
most agonising crises of her life she records
minutely -bow “Job,” her nasty little dog,
behaves. „ And so she does away with any air
of reality her “ martyrdom ” might have. In this
the man’s writing-foot is apparent. So also is it
in the way he mishandles the child. He makes
it quite unconsciously a most unlovable young-
ster. Also in the way he dresses the woman.
“ The ruby gown with velvet on it,” in which she
sits before the fire “to write things.” The hus-
band, by the way, takes to morphia as an antidote
to his wife’s too much and too sensitive soul.
But there’s another recently-published feed-on-
your-soul-and-be-poisoned book which its Ameri-
can publishers assure us is written by a 19-year
old Montana girl. “ The Story of Mary Maclane,”
is a diary of a lonely bush girl who tramps
over sand-wastes and scrubs floors. She is
soaked with Marie Bashkirtseff and Walt
Whitman, especially the latter, and in this
book she has “oozed” to the value of £4OOO
in royalties alone. She mentions some of her in-
most organs vaingloriously, as, for instance, “ My
sound, sensitive liver rests content in its thin
yellow bile; ” “my calm, beautiful stomach sings
a song,” etc.; “my red blood,” etc., all Whitman-
ish. She also remarks that her peer does not
exist, and that her egoism and vanity are beyond
parallel, and that she has nine cambric handker-
chiefs padding her blouse. The “ Kind Devil,”
a dream-creation of hers, who is always with
her, and who helps her to unveil her soul, and
has “steel-grey eyes,” which peer at her lovingly,
is only her ideal of the man who will by-and-bye
marry her and take her for frisks to Coney
Island. This “stQry”is very dull, very trashy,
and not new, but it was accepted the day after it
was received by the publishers, and—l cannot get
over that <£4ooo in royalties. It’s enough to set
us all a-diarying about our blouses, our digestions,
our little dogs, and our lacerated souls.
Hon. Dorothy Brand, youngest daughter of our
late Governor, Viscount Hampden, was married
last month to Percy Feilden, youngest son of a
lieut.-gen. of that name. The two Ferguson
boys, her nephews (eldest Miss Brand married
Capt. Ferguson in Sydney) were the bride’s
pages. Algiers was the selected honeymoon
ground.
Miss Mabel Carey, second daughter of Mr. J.
Randal Carey, president of Sydney D.T., and
Major of the Citizen’s Bushmen, was married last
Saturday to Mr. Claude Hill Reading, of
Woollahra, with all the pomp and circumstance
of what her pa’s paper, in an extra-special article,
carefully styled a “ fashionable wedding.” The
bride’s mother, a daughter of General Taylor, one
of the early M.L. settlers, is one of the hand-
somest of Sydney matrons.
When Melba was at “ Cranbrook,” they gave
her, on one occasion, astronomer Russell as dinner-
mate “ because she was a star.”
Inez Bensusan, who went hence to try her luck
on the Yankee stage, is writing some bright travel
notes in S.A. Critic. Negro porters and conduc-
tors make good copy; so does a lady in Paris
frocks who runs a wild-beast show. Inez laments
her own inability to remember faots and figures,
which the practical Yanks demand of her when
she discusses her own country. “ I cannot in-
crease my luggage with figures,” she says, “it
takes me all my time to look after my own figure.”
Recent fite in aid of N.S.W. Free Kindergarten
Unions realised £250, expenses totalling only £l6.
Mrs. Frank Davenport, the organising hon. sec.,
and her committee have reason “to step high”
over this achievement.
Have you seen “the fruit delicious” which is
now ripening in the Botanic Gardens ? It is of
West Indian habitat. There are a few plants also
in private gardens in Sydney. Mr. Julius Caro
has one. The “ fruit ” has a far-off resemblance
to the over-grown pistil of an arum-lily. It takes
a year to ripen, the final stage being accomplished
when it is out off and put away in a cupboard.
Flavor must be like what the magnolia flower would
be if it were a fruit. The after taste is very acid.
Mr. George Flannery, who went to London and
Coronation with Premier Barton, as private seo.,
and was sick and in hospital long after he returned
to Australia, is now quite well again.
A London correspondent tells me that Yert and
two other managers heard Mary Conley (of Mel-
bourne) sing just before the mail left, and had
pronounced her voice “magnificent.” “All the
invading Australian phalanx assure me,” says
this correspondent, “that they are deluged with
singing engagements, which is a pathetio, if big,
untruth.”
A correspondent tells me that this is how
Dolores gets her audience to join in her “ Laugh-
ing Song.” When she reaches a passage where
she has to accompany the music witli laughter she
keeps her eyes on some particular person in the
audience, smiles at him, laughs, and does eye-
play. If, after a couple of seconds, he doesn’t
break up she selects someone else, and at the next
laughing passage goes through the same perform-
ance. Once a leather-lunged man is convulsed
with laughter the chances are that the whole
audience will laugh in chorus.
A local doctor’s wife has a much-loved dog,
which has lately gone quite blind. It insists, all
the same, upon accompanying the lady on her
walks, and when it bumps its head against a lamp-
post or other obstruction, it sits down and cries.
What a horror is the average furnished cottage
in our Mountains ! Bedding such as you would
scarce give your collie without first disinfecting
it, mosquito nets with holes big enough to admit
native bears; insanitary-looking rags on the
windows, rags more holes than material covering
the toilet-tableß and chests-of-drawers; grimy
walls, and carpets that have not been lifted since
they were laid. Whilst you are trying to make
an estimate of the different kinds of microbes
with which you might share this cottage, the
landlady, who usually lives next door, says
acidly: “Mrs. lived here for a year at
two guineas a week.” She mentions the name
of a lady of undeniable status. “But,” you
murmur, “did she not bring her own bedding,
mosquito-fences and window-blinds ? ” “ She did
not; this is a. fully furnished cottage.” And then
if the lady doesn’t set her dog on to you it’s be-
cause you’ve already made friends with it.
The choice in toys of most of the boy children
this year has run to motor-cars, a toyseller tells
me—motor-cars, with a red chauffeur, his eyes
guarded with green goggles. One genius from a
kindergarten created a demand for “ fighting kan-
garoos, ” but there was no supply. Another, who
had heard Wells’ “First Men in the Moon” read
aloud, wanted a “Grand Lunar,” the awful being
with the gigantic brain and insect limbs.
The withholding of the names of some of the
parties with whom the respondent and petitioner in
the Varney Parkes divorce-suit charged each other
with misconduct, saved the case, so goes the story,
from becoming a real cause ciUbre. Had the
allegations been published in full, the case would
have been the talk of Sydney. As it was, peti-
tioner has dropped out of public life so com-
pletely that the affair excited comparatively little
interest.
Late Henry Parkes’ grave, in Faulconbridge
cemetery, has four of the sturdiest of hawthorn
bushes, one at each corner, almost shutting out
the monument in the centre. One side of the
obelisk sets forth that it was erected to the
memory of the statesman, another side says—“ In
memory of Thomas Parkes, aged 73, and his wife,
Martha Faulconbridge.”
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Miss Elmes, of the Argus, is the latest of the
craft to set her face northwards —she goes to the
Big Smoke for a six months’ holiday. Personally
she is a very charming little woman, with un-
limited perseverance—and, as for her literary
qualifications, let that fascinating series of ‘Love
Letters ’ which sjie wrote for The Bulletin a
year or two ago answer.
“At the Town Hall concert in aid of the
Mallee Drought Fund, on Wednesday night,
thunder provided organ-notes of portentous
volume. The elements waged war—real war—
with the singers, and one time, when a sweet
male serenader was running up the scale, a great
growl of thunder rolled over his head, and a
lightning flash glared for a lurid instant through
the fanlight. But he didn’t take the hint. Three
smartly-frocked debutantes tried their vocal
strength on the public. Miss Mabelle Morgan
was best, but her struggle to cope with the diffi-
culties of the ‘Jewel Song’ was too palpable.
Miss Pearl Green has some good deep notes.
Miss Agnes Arnold showed a dra wing-room range
of warblets.
“The display of the Ramsay paintings at
‘Myoora,’ Toorak, was mainly regarded by the
Philistines as a glorious opportunity to tread the
crimson carpet and to breathe the perfumed air
of Melba’s abode. The songstress not only lent
her temporary mansion as a gallery to the home-
coming Melbourne artist, but she also had invita-
tions circulated for a private view of the collection
on Tuesday. The next two days saw a muster of
the rank-and-file suburbanites, who passed meekly
under the tilted nose of the hall Jeames, and slid
into the seats of the impromptu gallery, or
knotted themselves into groups about the place.
The pictures were the least part of the show —the
consciousness of this being Melba’s house was the
main attraction. Genuine art lovers were lost to
sight among the general gapers.
“Artist Hugh Ramsay has come out for the
benefit of his lungs, not his pocket. Bad drainage
in the vicinity of his Paris studio was the cause of
a lung affection. Six months of our hot clime
was the medical prescription. The artist is mid-
way towards the completion of a life-size (still
another) Melba portrait. In the Big Smoke
Hugh Ramsay fell in with her tastes, and he did
some panel work at the Great One’s order.
“Of 38 of the Ramsay pictures shown, quite a
dozen are portraits or studies of the artist himself,
his Melbourne fiancee, and his sisters. The best
of this lot shows him at three-quarter length in a
white working coat; his lean strong hands on his
hips; his face set as if for the camera.
“The Governor Clarkes and their retinue, the
Waxcellency Maddens and more of the exalted,
filed into the seats of the mighty at the National
Gallery on Thursday night, at the presentation of
the travelling-scholarship trophy to Meyer Altson,
and the general review of the students’ handicraft.
These things were prefaced by much show and
laborious talk on the part of banker Gyles Turner,
and a more pointed speech from Gov. Clarke. The
little Ex., giving his collar a nervous hitch, admitted
that he himself daubed in an intermittent and casual
but not clever fashion. How many more weak-
nesses has he ? The ’cello is his dearest diversion,
the piano has its charms, philosophy its wiles, and
painting its attractions for the little gentleman.
Surely a many-sided man !
“ Meyer Altson was a bashful figure. He is a
narrow little Oriental chap—melancholy, slow.
When his brother daubers, in an effort to be Latin
Quartiery, hoisted him, enthroned on a chair
on their shoulders, his dark head hung dejectedly,
his arms ditto. But later he made a bold jump
from his peroh, and dashed through a near door
to temporary oblivion and peace. His picture,
‘Leisure Hours,’ shows a group of indolent
figures (all art fellows) fallen to talk or books,
while the dashing female model, nude to the
waist, gives herself up to repose. A good subject
and some good work—unevenly done.
“ Mrs. Norton Grimwade was the most swagger
frocker at that Art Conversazione. She wore a
stately black with top tiers of Japanese cherry-
blossom pink and black embroidered chiffon.
Lady Silverlocks was tall and rigidly straight in
her lilac turn-out, and diamond flickers. The
Waxcellency’B dame took the shine out of most
women of importance by her blue garb and her
wonderful creaseless skin and delicate color. The
lady’s complexion is a marvel.
“ We are accustomed to meet with Mrs. (Doctor)
Blank and Mrs. (Majah) Dash in the tea-and-
muffin periodicals, but it came as a bit of a
startler last week to read of Mrs. (Detective)
Stroke. What next ? It will probably lead on to
Mrs. (Butcher) Blue and Mrs. (Undertaker)
Black. Why not ?
“Not nice for Marshall Hall to recognise in
star performers at Melb. Conservatorium concert
(conducted by Prof. Peterson) former promising
pupils. At the time of the split these young
things, in most cases, were willing to follow
Marshall Hall for better or worse, but their
parents decreed that they must stand by the
’Varsity Conservatorium, owing to its more
valuable (because ‘ official ’) diplomas.
“The public begins to think of turning against
the Conservatorium entertainments. The pro-
moters ‘invite ’ victims wholesale (more than the
hall can possibly hold). They charge for reserving
a seat (2s. is the usual figure), but if you don’t rush
to the box-office at the very start you’re left.
Mobs of gushers jump all the seats in the begin-
ning, and no blame to them, if they’re so set on
school displays as all that. But what about the
mass of ‘ invited, ’ decoyed to a place when there
isn’t the remotest chance of them getting in ?
“ Maggie Stirling (Mrs. Riddell) has now her
girl and boy with her at ’Ome. So long as their
invalid father was alive, they remained with him
in Melbourne, the idea being that he might some
day regain enough strength to travel with them
to their mother in England. Now that her Aus-
tralian home is broken up, our chances of hearing
the mellow-voiced Maggie again seem uncertain.
“Circus parties have been the vogue. Last
week a noted politician went to gaze upon
his prototype, and he watched the gambols
of ‘Lizzie,’ with a cheerful and good-tem-
Eered air. On Tuesday Mr. Toby Barton
eld the V.R. box with his family and one
or two small Eton friends. He looked a very
simple-minded Toby, indeed ; no affairs of State
prevented him from giving absorbed attention in
the show. It was even with reluctance chat Toby,
when respectfully invited to a tete-a-tete with the
circus proprietor at an interval, left to see the dog.
. “ The students’ concert epidemic broke out
virulently a week or two back, and it is still
raging. Some of the concerts have been harrow-
ing because of ‘operatic’ efforts. Every scaly
person these days gives her or his pupils the prima
donna’s goal to aim at; hence many tears. Why
try to grow grapes on a gooseberry bush ?
“ A curious incident has caused the postpone-
ment of a marriage this month. The ’groom to
be was visiting the Quarantine Station in the
cause of duty, when tie was detained. Up to
date he was still required at the station, and the
charming bride-elect and her friends anxiously
await word that he is free.
“ There are three well known Melbourne girls
in mourning for deceased fiances. At the funeral
of one a dog-cart that had often been used by the
sweethearts was driven immediately behind the
hearse.
There was a good gathering at the marriage of
Barrister Mackey, M.L.A., and Miss Bella
Watson Bates at Dr. Bevan’s Church, last Thurs-
day. An academic tone was given to the scene
by the presence of so many University identities,
bookworms and art students. The evergreen ana
most cordial Judge Casey (the blandest that ever
sat on a Victorian bench) was among the guests—
his recent globe-trot having added to his solid
proportions and rubicund countenance. The mar-
riage was followed by a reception tea at the resi-
dence of Mrs. Bates, in Hawthorn.
“Another marriage oi interest was that of the
popular Miss Nellie Billings, of the Conserva-
torium, with Mr. Charles S. Heath.
“ Mrs. Andrews, wife of the secretary of Mel-
bourne hospital, gave further evidence to an
Athenaeum audience, t'other night, of her busy
mind. The lady, who talks engagingly, descanted
on the happy home and the hand which rooks the
cradle and rules the spouse. The men of the
audience gazed with sorrowful envy at the vener-
able head of Secretary Andrews, whose wife would
have all women serving with gentleness, tact, and
healthful care, their lords and masters.
“ Maie Saqui has fallen on prosperous times in
the Great Smoke. She owns a pretty motor-car,
and dresses superbly. These days, Maie is large
and languishing.
“The girls who have gone in for the large
* Mother’s Darling ’ frilled hat of the hot season
are addressed playfully as ‘ Baby.’ It sounded
all right when a picture beauty like dainty Miss
Anderson, of South Yarra, was referred to in this
fashion, and Mrs. Oswald Watt could also carry
off the chaffing term, saucily ; but when elderly
dames with faces the hue of kharki come along in
these hats, the term appears a trifle silly. 4 Sweet
seventeen ’ looks all right under the childish rim,
but matured matronhood, and the large class of
fashionables in urgent need of consulting a skin
specialist, had better refrain. A good heavy
gossamer and substantial head-gear are the safest
for them.
“Feeding-bottles have hitherto been bartished
from fashionable circles, but with the craze for
adopted infants, ‘bottles are in.’ Conversation
in a Toorak drawing-room these days often con-
sists of attack and defence of baby ‘comforters.’
A well-known dame, who has always preferred
her expensive Pomeranian poodles to babies, con-
fessed in a contrite spirit, the other day, at a
luncheon party, not far from the Myoora mansion,
that ‘she had no idea infants were so interesting. ’
This looks most promising.
“The most flourishing calling in these drought-
ridden parts is dentistry. All the molar-tuggers
along Collins-st. are raking in the shekels at the
rate that the Commonwealth gathers in its Customs
fines. During the last month, the engagements of
five flourishing tusk-dealers, all resident in
Collins-st., were reported.
“A well-known N.S.W. squatter, who has
suffered severely from the recent drought, has
discovered a treasure in one of his daughters ; she
is said to possess the faculty of discovering water
by means of the divining rod.
“The Mutual Store, Melbourne, has hit on a
good way to help the drought-stricken mallee
settlers. It undertakes to deliver to any railway
siding a truck of mallee-roots at the rate of 17s.
per ton, four or five tons going to one truck. The
whole amount is to be given to the mallee farmers,
without any deduction by the Store for trouble.
No fuel is cleaner or more pleasant than mallee
roots, and the settlers have a great supply avail-
able.
“The Federal posts are gradually being filled
by the best-looking Johnnies in the State ser-
vices. Oom Bill Lyne’s fatherly affection for the
ladies is known. Is that why he has an eye for a
straight nose, a head of hair, and a lithe
limb in filling public-service positions? The
Melbourne girls, at any rate, are chuckling
the tide in the Federal affairs that brings such
pretty fish to their Social basket.
“ Melba has heard one sermon since descending
on this drought-stricken State. Prof. Peterson
delivered it at the reception at the Conservatorium
to the songstress. In his best gown, his loftiest
expression and his most parsonic manner, the
musical dominie held forth on the matter of voice-
production, while Melba dropped her chin on her
elevated bosom and did a think. The Prof, droned
on till several looked strong disapproval. It seemed
a foolish thing to plant the great singer down and
preach to her concerning the sol-fa system. Prof.
Peterson’s talk to Melba was a huge dish of cold
porridge, just as Marshall Hall’s inflamed oration
to the same lady was an orgie of wine.
“ The very latest of Allan’s Australian Music
Books (No. 61) contains thirteen songs, selected
with due regard to this season of praise and
pudding. Nobody can ask for a better shillings-
worth of song classics, Gounod’s ‘ Nazareth ’ and
‘ Ave Maria,’ Handel’s * Where E’er You Walk,’
Macfarren’s ‘Beating of My Own Heart,’ Mozart’s
‘Holy Portals,’ and other respected old friends,
such as ‘ Will o’ the Wisp ’ and ‘ The Englishman,’
which latter will appeal to all furious admirers of
the six disputed hatters. The Melb. Musical
Magazine, also from Allan’s, is another lot of 13
songs—ditties that reach the heart of the Rickards
public and awaken guileless memories of pictures
on the screen. These range from the frisky
‘ Bismarck Grenadiers/ sung by Henrietta Byron,
to the sorrowful tale of a fair, young spinster who
has ‘fallen by the wayside’ in a bejewelled con-
dition.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEH.
Dress fAßßies
Are Stocked bv the
Leading Drapers. ...
maVkTHE varnished board
A SET OF TEETH ONE GUINEA _
Beautiful and Lifelike in Appearance and Guaranteed Perfect Fit. Absolutely Painless
Extractions and Stoppings Guaranteed.
Special Attention Given to Regulating Children’s Teeth.
Mr. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R.D.S., Surgeon Dentist, 43 OxforcJ-st. Sydney
Sold by all Drapers and Hosiers.
KNEIPP LINEN
a —UNDERWEAR
Porous. Cool. Clean. Unshrinkable
Recommended by Medical Profession.
Prevents Prickly Heat, Eczema,
Allows the Body to Breathe.
The Lacte Remedies— What they are. How
to use them, and speedily obtain a beautiful
plumpness of face, neck and arms, and a perfect
bust Write for H. Westall Guest’s new pamph-
let, post free, 229 Bourke-st., Melb.*
Allan’s, the music-sellers, of Melbourne,
evidently possess the art of putting’ together popular
musical annuals. Their new number eight contains
thirteen popular songs, including Jennie Opie’s now
famous song “ Absence Makes The Heart Grow Fonder,"
Barney Fagan’s “ African Queen,” “ The Bismark Grena-
diers,’’ which made such a hit when Miss Byron sang it.
And there is one song that is sure of success in the home
circle, entitled “ Good Night, Daddy,” its sweet and
plaintive air should prove a good successor to the well
worn “Daddy.” “Jack to the Fore” is a rattling sea
song, and the* other items are good and popular. One
shilling is all they ask for it, and it’s dirt cheap at the
price.*
CHARLES HEIDSIECK
CHAMPAGNE.


PWRSONAL ITEMS .
Elijah Bowie has an un@l9 in Adelaide who
is a bootmaker. It is understood that the uncle is
human enough not to agree with the wing part of
Elijah’s faith.
“ My God 1 what an age this is ! ” sez a
Sydney Irishman to The Bulletin. “Here is
Jehn See Premier; and you meet Dan O’Connor
in the street 1 ”
J: H. Carruthers, leader of the N.S.W.
Opposition, was 45 years old last Sunday (Dec. 21),
and bn the previous Wednesday Tom Bent passed
into his 65th year.
An interviewer recently asked of Dolores
whieh was her favourite song. 1 ‘ The one I happen
to he singing at the moment,” she replied. The
secret of an artist’s success !
Said by some that Senator O’Connor gets
nothing at all from his colleagues for doing
as much of the work of Federal Government as
any of them ; but it is hard to believe this.
An ex-Minister of the Crown was fined
last week in a Sydney police-court £2 or 14 days’
gaol for selling liquor on Sunday. The court
allowed him 24 hours to pay or “take it out.”
He paid.
Bishop Moorhouse, of Manchester, still
concerns himself with Australasia. His nomina-
tion of Bishop Nelligan, to succeed Primate
Cowie at Auckland, is his latest move, but he
manages to have an effective say in the appoint-
ment of most of the C.E. Bishops imported by
Australia.
Recent letters raise a doubt as to the
return to N.S.W. of Chief-Justice Darley, who
has now the light to retire on a large pension.
The Boer commission, on which he has accepted
a seat, may be a step towards other Imperial work
which can be best discharged by residing within
cooee of London.
Arthur Robinson, who was member for
Dundas (Vic.) and was beaten at last election by
squatter Thompson, is a nephew of Prime Minister
Barton. Robinson is a fluent lawyer, and in
politics proved to be “ a young fellow in a hurry.”
In two years he changed parties twice.
A GREAT NEWSPAPER MAN: DAVID SYME,
PROPRIETOR OF THE “AGE."
Photo, by Johnstone, O’Shannessy & Co., Melb.
The recent pTioto. of David Syme flatters
the 75-year-old journalist-capitalist, insofar that it
gives him a stronger as well as a younger face
than he presents in profile. Confronting King
David and staring straight at him, one is dis-
inclined to believe that the student of spiritualism
and author of books on political economy can be
enslaved by a greed for power and siller. But to
catch him sideways is to somewhat change your
views of David Syme’s character. The name
otDavid is a cruel handicap through life, yet the
most thorough-paced David can begin to be
magnanimous to his enemies when he learns to
laugh at himself. Probably Syme of the Age,
brother of the late Ebenezer, has never even
smiled at himself.
The Gov.-General has sent £1 towards the
Xmas treat to the poor of Melb. Benevolent
Asylum. That won’t go far, but if everyone con-
tributed as much in proportion to his means the
inmates would have a good time.
Chief Justice Way entertains more lavishly
than any of his fellows on the Australian bench,
not even excepting Madden, but his official salary
is £2OOO. Wax. Madden splashes splendidly
while Acting-Governor, but tucks in afterwards.
Sydney friends are told that veteran
Maurice O’Rorke, ex-Speaker Of M.L., defeated
at late elections, will come westward and make a
lengthy stay in Sydney and Melbourne to study
the influence of the Commonwealth on Australian
affairs.
Of the 13 members of the present Vic-
torian Ministry not one is English. Irvino,
Shiels, and Taverner are Irish ; MKenzie, Reid,
M‘Leod, Cameron, and Murray, Scotch ; J. M.
Davies, Welsh ; Sachse, Danish ; Bent, Kirton,
Pitt. Australians.
Griffith, C.J., reminiscencing lately re
Auditors-General : “I once brought in a Bill to
indemnify the Government for an expenditure of
about 20 millions spent without authority of Par-
liament. . . . And the Auditor-General of the
day —why, he never even noticed it.”
Archdeacon Gunther, liberal churchman
and historiographer, is first in favor for the post
so long filled by the late Dean Cowper. Indeed,
in the history of Australia there has been but one
Dean of St. Andrew’s. The Dean has by office a
first claim on the apron when a vacancy occurs ;
but Dean Cowper never looked that way.
Senator Symon, K.C., has the unique
record of never having failed to secure the
acquittal of any prisoner for whom he has
appeared in Adelaide Criminal Court. Mr.
Symon got off Bertha Schippan, although the
newspaper evidence published prior to the tr;al
was (as in Martin’s ease) all the other way.
Labor-leader Watson, MILR.* facetiously
referred to as the real premier of the Common-
wealth, is a native ol Chill/ He looks like a
backblox squatter who had been through the
banks, and studies a Bill with the concentration
of a criminal lawyer.
The’ dead Westralian Justice Moorhead
raced through his career faster than any other
judge figuring in Australia, In 11 years he was
admitted to W. A. Bar, entered Parliament, be-
came Minister of the Crown, ascended the
Supreme Court bench, and died.
B. R. Wise, accused of koo-tooing to the
Pope, or something of that sort, in N.S.W. Leg.
Council :
The Pope is a most estimable gentleman, who, if he had
been horn of good Protestant parents, would to-day
probably be Archbishop of Canterbury.
There was a sort of minor skirmish in the
N.S.W. sectarian battle over the election of two
canons for St. Andrew’s Cathedral (Sydney) by
the Anglican clergy and laity. The extreme
Protestant party won, getting in their two
nominees, both strongly favored of the Orange
party, which has since publicly sent them its
congratulations.
Minister Crick, referring to Chairman of
Committees Cann’s illness at the close of N.S.W.
Session :
Mr. Cann came out of a Broken Hill mine into N.S.W.
Parliament, to earn here the respect of members and to
find out that mental work is even more exhausting and
trying than the hardest of physical toil.
And the Labor members cheered.
Thus Rev. Caldwell, American pastor in
charge of Kalgoorlie Congregational Church
(where smoking is encouraged), on a recent
evening : .
“Now, friends, we will sing hymn 191; but please start
on the second verse, as the first commences with the
lines —
‘ I care not for riches,
Neither silver nor gold,’
and I am swre none of us can sing that from our hearts."
G. H. Reid says that Kingston has been
put into the wrong box—be should have been
Czar of Russia. In a word, the Minister for
Customs, unlike Reid, is not a balancer, a fencer,
a smoolger, a Janus, a Yes-No, a Tory-Liberal a
Facing-both-Ways ;Jie is an honest, stalwart, in-
flexible, downright Radical, whose memory will
long live as that of one of the few great democrats
of Australasia.
T. R. Ashworth, a boresome
M.L.A., elected to Vic. Assembly
on the Reform wave, after years of
unsuccessful attempts as a Free-
trader, last summer encountered
George Reid at a seaside resort, and
at once pounced upon the leader of
the Federal Opposition to discuss a
recent speech of his in the Reps.
George, in his most innocent man-
ner, pretended not to know what
Ashworth was talking about, and,
after forcing him to make a literal
and categorical explanation, said,
“Oh!”—just as only George can
say it —“ I see what you are referring
to now; but, really, I am here on a
holiday.” Sticklers for truth always
spell politician T. R. Ashworth’s
name “ Trashworth.”
Someone has been speculating
in a Sydney paper on what the hang-
man says when he “takes charge”
of the condemned man. N.S.W.’s
Nosey Bob’s formula is (so the late
Chief Warder Lovett, of Darling-
hurst, told present writer): “My
poor man, I’m sorry for this, but ”
taking in two more holes of the arm-
straps with a vigorous jerk—“ it will
soon be over.” The late Mr. Gately,
when Victorian hangman, used to
say : “ Smith, your time’s come ! ”
Apropos, if you were going to be
hanged, which would horrify you the
more —a noseless hangman like him
of Botany Bay, or a masked brute,
like the Melbourne man-butcher ?
C. E. Bishop Frodsham, of
North Queensland, was, it is said,
at Oxford once dubbed, as a joke, “Bishop of
Hades. ” The joke seems to have been prophetic.
From Perth :
The Bulletin sets down Walter James, Premier of this
State, as a “ mediocrity.” Therein it is a bit astray. The
man is a K.C., and his reputation as a lawyer stands so
high here that public opinion indicates him as the next
Chief Justice ; personally, I think he is too high-minded
to appoint himself to the position. A Protectionist out-
and-out, in his ideas a Socialist—certainly restrained by
the House, but eager to go as far as practicable. He
introduced the Factories Bill here, and is starting a State
hotel at Gwalia, and has now a Bill before the House to
enable Kalgoorlie to erect a municipal theatre and hotel,
bonded warehouse, etc., etc. His Govt, is the first in
Australia to have the courage to say it will not borrow,
and, if compelled to do so, only locally, if it has to pay tf e
local capitalist a higher rate ; also, he openly avows h s
desire to see the abolition of the Upper House. An Aus-
tralian of the finest type ; high-minded, generous, and
just the nearest approach we have had to George Higin-
botham in State politics for years.
MARSHA LL-HA LL'S
SUCCESSOR.
Brother and. sister
have not often
crowded more
public ser-
vice into an
Australian
lif e - time
than J. B.
and C. H.
Spence.
Th e bfr o-
liier, J. 8.,
who died a
few days ago,
had been many
things during
his 63 years in
S. Australia—far-
mer, railway ac-
countant, Curator
of Estates, bank
manager (as
its general
manager he
made the old
, E.S. andA.C.
Mank a power
i n S. A.),
M.P., Chief
Secretary, and
Works M inister;
And, finally, when
the Govt, wanted,
in the province’s
live days, to start
a State Bank, it
was John Brodie
Spence whom they
induced to take the
presidency. It was
a happy choice;
for, to his financial
experience was ad-
ded (1 rgely the
result of his sister’s
influence) deep
sympathy with pro-
progressive ideas. His sister, Catherine Helen,
survives him ; she cheerily owns to 77. Her
work has been mainly educational and philan-
thropic (she has sit on all sjrts of boards
and commissions and committees), though in
the days when the Register was a \igorous
democrat she was a steady leader-writer and con-
tributor. The father of these two was Adelaide’s
first town clerk.
Apparently, Dr. Cockburn, that most
amiable theorist who set the S. Aus. fashion
in Liberalism before Kingston took up his later
work in earnest, has given up the idea of returning
from London and running for the House of Reps.
He has lately joined another bank board, and
seems to have settled down to a life of combined
guinea-pigging and philanthropy. It’s a curious
mixture ; but, then, so is the Doctor.
A lamentable defeat in the recent Maori-
land elections was that of Speaker Maurice
O’Rorke. He was probably the best Speaker in
Australia, and his decisions were hardly ever
questioned. IJo has sat in 43 sessions, and his
speakership (about 10 years) is a record for Aus-
tralasia, the nearest approach to it being George
Kingston's 18i years in South Australia. O’Rorke
was beaten by a Farmer’s Union candidate.
Died recently Colonel Angelo, ex-super,
at Rottnest (W.A.), a queer old gentleman who,
after closely studying the Australian aborigines,
concluded that our niggers were the “lineal
descendants of the ten lost tribes of Israel.” In a
word, the Colonel was soft enough to believe that
in 3000 years the lost tribes so degenerated that
they couldn’t at once perceive that a little golden
half-sovereign was more valuable than a big silver
half-crown.
Poor old Mulligan, the up-country S.A.
“cocky” farmer, who became famous by sitting
as coroner in the Towitta murder case, and more
famous still by suspending the proceedings in the
barn to oblige newspaper snap-shot fiends, died
a few days ago. In S.A., any J.P. is liable to be
called on to act as coroner ; and when Mulligan,
being handiest, had to take charge of the most
sensational case S. Australia has known for years,
it just broke him up.
“ H.H.” to The Bulletin on a Labor
matter :
What a land of mediocrities England must be, and
what a country of sycophants is Australia ! Our
Laborites, when one of their kidney happens to arrive
from the anointed Motherland, go wild with
enthusiasm. For instance, the long-haired poseur,
Tiilett, though he was obviously the inferior of several
of their own ranks in each State, and Tom Mann, now
being kowtowed to as though he were the veritable Pope
of Labor, while, on his merits, he merely stands in the
ruck of the Australian Labor members. All Labor Aus-
tralia shrieks over these two men simply because they
happen to come from London, yet what cool critic would
place either of them in the same street as Watson,
Hughes, Mahon, Griffith, Higgs, M‘Gregor, or Holman or
Dawson when he is in good form? The hard-up Melb.
Trades Hall Council is said to be trying to raise TGOO a
year to pay a salary to Mann as an organiser. The
money wouid be sufficient to secure the services of two
Australian organisers each the equal of Mann in every
sense.
Watt, who has the honor <of sit-ting t» Vi®,
Assembly for E. Melbourne with Gillort, Isb® raos©
shameless political turncoat that Australia has l
seen, was at one time a newspaper-boy. He h&£
a quick, smart, shallow brain, and addresses the
House in stilted, lamp-made phrases. The late
humorist Hancock, who used to say be nearly lost
his seat for Footscray because he blackened his
l)oots on one occasion, christened Watt “ tbs bon.
member for the rounded period-”
The most exciting of the feats of Supfc.
Casey, now retiring from N.S-W. Police force,
i took place one night about 40 years ago when he
.was a constable at Bathurst. Prisoners broke gaol
and a melee ensued in which police and malefac-
tors fought at close quarters. Casey arrived on
the scene and blazed away with such effect that he
succeeded in turning the flight of the enemy,
driving thirteen of them back to their cells. Un-
fortunately one of his bullets found lodgment in a
policeman.
Although Premier Jenkins signed the
strenuous and sarcastic letters sent by S.A. Govt,
to Prime Minister Barton recently on the subject
of the transcontinental railway, the wheat duties,
and the Senate elections, they were all written
by Attorney-General Gordon, who is very handy
with the pen. Also, he is one of those genial,
happy-go-lucky persons who “don’t care nothing
for nobody,” and would sooner flay his best friend
—figuratively, of course—than miss the chance of
saying or writing something clever. ,
The impending return of ex-editor Ward
(now chief leader-writer of Melb. Akgus) to
Sydney, after many years’ absence, to his old
position as D.T. editor, is a piece of dramatic
justice not often seen in real life. Mr. Ward left
the D.T. as a matter of journalistic conscience
when he found the directors grabbing too big a
hold of the strings, and with him left his two
leader-writers, present editor Gullett and ex-
editor Brient. The latter returned immediately
to the control of the paper, and the result was a
feud of many years’ standing, which has not pre-
vented the final restoration of capable editor
Ward to his old chair.
One of the best-known members of Vie.
Leg. Council, who rose from very lowly beginnings,
had not the slightest aspirations towards politics
when a deputation waited upon him to ask his
consent to nomination. “ But,” he protested, “ I
dunno nothin’ about these here things.” >The
spokesman pointed out that such an objection
was no objection at all in the case of the Leg.
Council. “ But Pve took no interest in anythin’
of the sort,” said the capitalist, “ I wouldn’t know
what it was all about.” The spokesman was still
unsatisfied. “You can read,” he suggested.
“ Um—er—yes,” replied the prospective candi-
date, uncertainly. “You can write,” he con-
tinued. “Well ,” replied the other, with an
eloquent pause. “You can write cheques,” sug-
gested the spokesman. The face of the man of
money brightened that they should have discovered
bis metier. “Yes,” he firmly announced.
“Then,” said the deputation, “you’re the man
for us,” and it departed to arrange for the dud
expenditure on the campaign requirements.
Reporter Francis Fox, of Melb. Age, who
lately was awarded
la. damages from
Trenwith, M.L.A.,
was imported to
Australia in 1860
by “Jimmy’’Thom-
son, of the defunct
Melbourne Even-
ing Standard, wl o
met Fox on board a
London and New-
castle boat. Fox, a
very competent
newspaperite, is
really a sporting
man, who has drift-
ed by circumstances
into general press-
work. He was
brought out to edit
the short-lived
Sporting Stan-
dard, which signal-
ised its appearance
by a funny blunder.
In the ’7o’s the late
Dick Lee, of Mel-
bourne Herald,
wrote a bogus letter
from W. G. Grace,
the cricketer, sneer-
ing at Australians
and Australian
cricket. Grace saw
the letter in Eng-
land, and denied
that he wrote it,
but in ’9O, when it
was announced
that Grace was com-
ing out again, the
Sporting Stan-
dard trotted out
RABT BIRDS: SAM
LEON, Vic. C[?]
Prosecutor,
Dick Lee’s letter to show how disgracefully Grace
had written about Australia !
Christmas Belles!
Every girl can be as fair and winsome as a Christinas Bell—the red-
llushed flower that blooms at Christmas-time.
The heat and dust will not affect her if she fortifies her strength with Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills.
They bring good blood and tine development—sparkling eyes, elastic steps,
and graceful, rounded limbs.'
Even in the midst of Summer heat, the girl who uses Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills is a veritable Christmas Belle.
TAMWORTH CURE.— “ I used to be weak and sickly. My blood was poor, and I was a
great sufferer from indigestion,” says Miss E. Verning, No. 2 Gate House, Moonbi. “Terrible
boring headaches made me miserable all day, and after kept me awake at night. The eating of
even a light meal caused a pain on my chest, and often made me gasp for breath. As I had to half
starve myself, and lost my sleep as well, I grew weaker and thinner. Then I tried Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills. After taking them for a week I felt brighter and stronger A few boxes cured me.
Now I am in the best of health, and my cheeks are pink and clear.”
From retailers and the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney—2/9, six boxes 15/3, post free.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
«


Aboriglnalities.
To Contributors. —In the case of ethnological and
natural history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience ; or as nearly as possible. Thus
'many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
The so-called “ locusts ” being very plenti-
ful this year, the way of the schoolboy is hard.
He never tires of his captive insect till the legs
and wings are off, and the “ music-box” is broken.
Then the boy, with a feeling of great self-sacrifice,
puts the remnant into a tree. Experience never
teaches boys that it’s dangerous to take locusts
into school. They smuggle them in all right, but
the temptation to see if they’re quite well takes
the hand to the pocket. Then begins the skirling,
and the unfortunate naturalist has often to join-
in. Remarkable are the school names for locusts
—“bakers,” “floury-bakers,” “washerwomen,”
“yellow Mondays,” “drummers,” and “double-
drummers.”
WELL STOCKED.
Ist. Bush Damsel: “Well, Maggie, how did
you like Sydney ? ”
2nd. Bush Damsel (just returned): “My word I
Sydney's the place for gettin' a boy Tou you can
just pick em and draft em and cull em
oure theer I ?
Judge Noel recently decreed at Long-
reach (Q.), that “an owner must be able to
positively identify a beast, the brand and earmark
not being considered as prima facie evidence of
ownership.” Then what is the object of the
brand ? A grazier who has 10,000 head of cattle
scattered over a big run, and could “positively
identify” any one of them in a strange place,
minus brand or earmark, would be a phenomenon.
If such decision holds good, it removes practic-
ally the only safeguard the squatter has against
cattle-stealers.
A positively majestic sight was the dust-
bank driven ahead of the monsoon rains that
brought hope to the out-back in the first days of
December. In the distance it hung like a curtain
hundreds of feet high, apparently motionless;
then it moved on slowly from the west, rising
until it had blotted out the sun, turning and
twisting and rolling, in all shades of brown and
on to the deepest purple; then, as it overtook
one, for a few minutes —five, perhaps—dense
darkness, passing to the yellow of a flame ; then
the yellow died out and the gloom was wliitey-
brown ; and finally the rain drops, driven on a
raging wind, fought with the dust, and sometimes
won and some times lost.
As usual, the monsoon rains which fell out-back
at the beginning of Dec. spent themselves in
patches. One station was flooded ; its neighbor
had to hide itself from the fury of an appalling
duststorm. The coaches that crawled into Broken
Hill from the North were heavy with mud, and
floods had made them a day late ; the coaches that
crawled in from the south were heavy with dust,
and had travelled a track cursed with a 40-mile
dry stage. One station at least has some paddocks
wlii-ji were turned into bogs, and others which re-
mained dust-heaps.
• * • •
Junee (N.S.W.) residents were shocked
the oUnr day, when a train pulled up there, to
see a frock-load of sheep eating the wool off each
oth».*i’ backs. One was particularly ravenous
and had completely plucked the wool from its
neighbor’s shoulder. Sympathetic witnesses
hurriedly collected bushes and threwthem in before
the train went on.
« • * ’ •
Be the Australian wool-record
(8., 6/12/’02): Mr. W. J. Taylor, of Valleyfield,
Tasmania, cut 281 b. wool from a 12-months-old
ewe. This statement can be verified by any of
the well-known breeders of the Midlands.
* * • *
Esley River cattle station, Northern
Territory, was sold last month (just before the
big rains) to a Westralian at the rate of 20s. per
head, or about £4OOO cash. The highest bid for
the property at auction in Melbourne was 16s.
per head, notwithstanding all the cattle were fat.
The drawback was evidently the vast stretch of
droughty country between that district and the
big markets.
* • * •
“ Bilby ” : The most complete collection
of drunks I ever saw in one house was in a
pub, many
years ago, in
Condobo li n
district (N.S.
W.). I was
passing there
about midday,
and called in
with the idea
ofgettingsome
dinner. There
were six
drunks on the
verandah, all
incapable of
moving. The
proprietor
slept the sleep
of the drunk
on the sofa,
and, in re-
sponse to my
shakes, uttered
a guttural
note, which
sounded like
“Advanc h
Aushtralia,”
and went to
sleep again. The
cook was dead
drunk on the kitchen floor, with
both feet resting on the chair from
which he had fallen. When I tilted him
_ on to the ground with a flop he showed no
signs of life, A woman sitting in the bar was
far gone, and only smiled a vacant but
friendly smile when I spoke to her.
The dog wasn’t drunk, but someone
had left a long-sleever on the
verandah, and he was drinking.
The whole house was as silent as
a vault full of dead men. I have never
found out to this day what all these drunks
had been celebrating, but for some reason or
other there had been a heroic burst that day in the
Condobolin country. Possibly it was the dog’s
birthday. They get drunk on small provocation
in Condobolin.
* * * •
“ Myhree ” : When going round the
rabbit-traps you can always tell whether a cat or
fox has been at bunny, by the different methods
pussy and Reynard adopt in satiating their appe-
tites. Reynard makes a neat puncture in bunny’?
heart and draws the blood, finishing up with the'
heart; while puss tears her victim till her appe-
tite is appeased.
“Boko”: “E.S.S.” (B. 20/9/’O2) gets
astray when he starts on his ‘ ‘ snake critique ”
business:
(1) All snakes do not take to the water on their own.
I’ve never seen any but blacks, greens, whips and carpets
in the water excepting in flood time.
(2) No snake was ever yet known to eat dead tack ; he
must catch it alive.
(3) Has he or any other contributor ever seen an eel
leave water and crawl around unless said water was a
vanishing quantity ?
DROUGHTY QUEENALND
DUSTY TRAVELLER (at Wayback bush hotel): "Landlord, can I have a cold bath ?”
LANDLORD: “All right, boss I which'll yer ave it in, whisky or water? One's just as cheap
as t'other here."
“W.M.8.” : Be wheat-eating crows (B.
* .. \
22/11/02). In the Donald s n ( •) P
are making havoc in the “ crops. Haw a .5-acre
paddock of imported American wheat (sown for
seed for experimental purposes) entirely divested
bv these nests—absolutely nothing left to strip.
...»
“Wiliar”: “ Glenara ” (B. 6/12/’O2)
__ „i, oon nwn«rs with much cost and
expia ns how sheep-owners wnn mucn cost ana
trouble, dispose of starvers which have died in
the trucks. I know a man who, between stations,
and when the train was “all out, felt his way in
the dark from one (open) truck to another, and
dropped all his dead stuff over the side.
THE LADY MAYORESS OF SYDNEY:
MRS. THOMAS HUGHES.
Photo, by The Falk Studios, Sydney.
A lad of eleven, whilst leading a pony to
water with a clothes-line (one end of which was
tied round his waist), lately met a horrible death
at Mildura. The brute dragged its victim nearly
5 miles ere it was captured.
“ C.G." : Saw, the other day, at Gympie
(Q.) a woman driving a team of four horses with a
load of timber for the mines. Her sisters cut and
load it, and she carts it into the town. She has
been doing this for a long time past. She always
says that she will never go to service “ while
there’s a stick of wood in the country.”
• * • •
“ Inquisitive ” asks :
(1) What is the N.S.W. record number of sheep hand-
shorn by one man in one day ? (2) What N.S.W. station
carries the largest number of sheep ? (3) What N.S.W.
station has the largest shearing-shed, and what number
of shearers does this accommodate when all the boards
are full ?
• • • •
“L.F. ” : Underground here in
Blook 12 (Broken Hill) the 500 ft. level
swarms with mosquitoes, which breed
in the stables, and thence have spread
throughout the level. I have worked
mates with rats, mice, lizards, frogs,
ants, &c. Also had a cat and dog
underground for weeks. Puss always
got under a bucket at firing-time,
otherwise took to the life-well. But
the dog got fat, and one day failed to
clear a mullock pass he was jumping
over, and caused the trucker, who
was working at the shoot below, a
severe shock through 201 b. of dog-pulp
hitting him in the chest. And at a
Gippsland mine, when I was there,
another trucker ran a truck (empty)
off the rails, owing to a sft. goanna
which happened to be going in ahead
of him. The goanna was incensed,
and as Teddy hadn’t seen such beasts
before lie got a bad scaring, and would
never after travel out without a light.
But mosquitoes are the worst I’ve
struck yet—the fracteur-snmke makes
them more savage.
* * • •
“ H.J.M.” : All the small Ger-
man cane-growers around Marburg,
near Ipswich, Q., employ Kanakas,
at Bs. per week ; and sometimes they
are dear at that. Many of them
cleverly sham sickness, and grow daily
fatter and lazier. I knew one who
became “ insane ” regularly every
week-day immediately after breakfast,
got better during dinner-hour, and
went howling mad again until the
supper-bell, whereupon he instantly
recovered, ate well, and slept placidly
until next morning. His modus was
this : The moment cane-cutting began
he’d give a hideous yell and spring
into the atmosphere, flourishing his
cane - knife, and roaring “ Blood !
blood ! more blood ! ” Then he’d shy
his cane-knife at his German em-
ployer’s head—and sometimes he’d hit
it, too. Next, he’d roll over and
over on the earth, roaring like a bull
and squealing like a guinea-pig; then
he’d bound into the air again, and
hold himself up there with both
hands by the hair of his head. This was his
trump card, and always frightened Sheol out of
the boss, who’d yell “Mine Gott in Himmel!”
and make for the house, the other Kanakas
stampeding into the cane as if they were frightened
too —but only to have a quiet smoke.
AN OPTIMIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The chaps at Brolga oft gave vent
To gloomy fits of discontent —
Excepting William Henry Twist,
Who claimed to he an optimist.
He’d look upon the country round—
The seared, drought-stricken, parched-up ground—
And say, “ Well, boys, now don’t sling mud,
It might ha’ bin a blanky flood.”
A buzz-saw’s teeth, combined with booze,
Caused him one day his leg to lose.
And as they picked him up he said,
“ Thank Cord, it warn’t me bloomin’ head.”
At length his course of life was such,
Death laid on him his icy clutch.
He murmured as he lay expiring,
“A spell is just what I’m requirin’."
To nether regions sped his shade,
And calm good-day the keeper bade.
“ Just tell the bloke what runs the show
That Billy Twist’s arrived below.”
He sat upon a bank of flame
And cried as Satan to him came—
“ Say, boss, what luck 1 struck your camp 1
I never coaid stand cold or damp.”
JASON.
s£>j\riaiian snoDraa
SiHIHOONOOVIM
WATSON’S WHISKY.
The Genuine Linen Mesh
Under wear has arrived !
THE DR. DEJMEL LIKEN MESH SINGLETS PANTS
in all Sizes and in two Weights, obtainable from all the leading Men’s Mercers at the fixed rate of 10/6 per
garment. Linen made in the form of a porous absorbent cloth possesses enormous advantages over the old-
fashion Woollen Garments. It does not become clammy or matted in wear. Is more absorbent than any other
material. Whoever heard of wiping one’s hands on a woollen cloth? Why, then, the body which is constantly
giving off moisture? IT NEVER SHRINKS. Ask for descriptive pamphlet, obtainable at all leading Men’s
Mercers throughout the Commonwealth. SOLE AGENTS—
ROCHUSSEN BROS., 306-7 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; The Strand Arcade, Sydney; Charles St., Adelaide.
TELLS
“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
“Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
The Lancet
BRANDY.


Giving* evidence before N.S.W. Public
Worts Committee, Mr. Heydon, a Murrurundi
trrjl y lt*r .
n .wthPlist 10 years he had been largely growing
Dunng the last 1 J a about six months to
rape, onojrhid hihe I a<l I een i xo , n ba(J Be asons, SUC h
fatten. 10 to 20 «P “ able t 0 fat ten 10 sheep on an
as the present, he ha other fanners’ sheep were
acre in 12 months, ana >•» hrimnnff hiffh prices,
starving on their runs, us butyls, an acre for
lie further stated that it cost m about witho ut
iSpsiSgsil
another. He ftenera.'b - M . u . ( , b and between that time
and the end of Oct. he fattened,’on an average, from 16
Yet of this very fattening sheep-
fodder has hitherto been quite neglected m
N.S.W.
“Wanda”: “ Goonanga ” ( B - 6 /12/’O2)
doesn’t believe “salting” was ever practised to
innUt' “ nies ” show water— not by bushmen,
vlw ” No • but by dock-laborers, tram-
any i /v. „,;?liners &c Also, I said nothing
about my prospectors being without water before
catcldn" their nig, nor did I mention horses. The
men in* question Ld camels and had water with
them, but wished to locate a soak or to k
hole’’for future supply. The in tne
open” was a slip-should have been m the
shade ” As to “ mates speared in the toneiy
desert,” “lingering long in temble agony &c
verv few whites were ever speared in W.A., ana
moJt of them had themselves to thank for it.
Camp-robberies, also, were almost always duo to
nigs being encouraged around camps by gm
mashers ” In fact, in almost every case these
disasters are traceable, to someformofover-
investment in black-society (to put it polite y).
»"* * *
“ Bullfrog ” : I once heard an eloquent
nreacher hold forth on the dull misery of the
married women in India in a manner that drew
tears and shekels from the congregation, mid the
Zenana Mission grew richer On a Western
station an ignorant, brutish loutsof <
rider got married, and was sent, with 1 ’
one of the loneliest huts on the run. His jealousy
was something awful, and he tortured that woman
for vears with his narrow-minded idea that a
married woman who spoke to any man, even
most occasional swagman,
must be unchaste It gripped what little intellect
she had, and she thought constantly what a grand
thing it would be for all women to be dumb. 1
passed there last winter, and they _ were sending
the boundary-rider’s three daiighters to one of the
city asylums. They are dumb from birth, there
are four boys, but they are noisy enough.
‘ ‘ Chasselas ’ writes re “ Jungle ” on closed
roads (B. 28/11/’O2)
Many Bulletin
readers will remem-
ber Mark Barnes who
kept the Irawalla
(Vie.) pub. and spent
his life in a patriotic
fight to open the
closed roads. Mark’s
land joined the rail-
way station and the
main road to Balla-
rat, and, in conspicu-
ous places thereon,
as well as on the
sides of his out-
houses, he had huge
boards erected sign-
written with big
headings and crisp
readings on the sub-
ject, dear to his
heart, so that they
who ran might read.
Local squatters boy-
cotted Mark and his
pub., and when they
failed to starve him
out offered him a
good round sum to
pull down his boards.
But he fought to the
end, and when Balla-
rat papers refused to
publish his letters on
the subject, he paid for them at advt - rates Mark’s
pver he could scrape enough money together. Mar “ p
c™s “ Open the roads and save the country ” and the
poor fellow sacrificed all and died wdhh'sfaeeto his foe,
tssifs. %&?&&&$ WpSfe
parts of Vic. are now collecting as high as 255.
rent for six months —roads included.
• * » *
“ D S T.” : Be snakes falling a distance.
I once chased a large brown reptile oyerthe
Swamo Oak Falls, where it fell a distance of full}
200fb and struck the rocky bottom with a noise
blfrihe crack of a whip. Apparently uninjured
it darted into a waterhole some 15yds. AJ
the same instant an enormous whicb i
had pushed over the precipice, struck fair ,
centre of the waterhole, and never was a hole so
soon pumped dry. The locality was strewn
fragmentary evidence of spring watei, giunite
brown snake. , *
Anv of your readers ever see any kangaroo
mice a little bigger than an ordinary field mouse,
and formed exactly like a kangaroo, with slight
brush on the tail? I killed a couple out here
(about 250 miles N.E of Kalgooriie), never
saw them in any other locality.— Pbospeciom.
J C. WATSON, the Federal Labor Leader.
Photo, by Kerry & Co., Sydney.
LBAVING THE MALLER
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What did you hear 'hove the mopoke'S call,
When the waggons were passing the camp last m o htl
The “Gee 1 ” of the driver who’s lost his all,
The wail of the infant, so sickly and white.
You listened and saw from the flap of the tent,
And pitied-who couldn’t ?-the misery there ,
'tawTrsf pr im hw 1
A,wl cattle that died on the desert's dry breast
tvai la7i 1 v over Hie lignum s rim ;
DONAI.D, V.
WILL JAREATT.
The Federal Labor Leader.
T C Watson, leader of the Labor party in the
Federal Parliament, is an Australian by senti-
ment, a Maorilander by training, an Anglo-Scot
bv descent and a native of Valparaiso (Chili) by
birth. AH those facts point with much probability
to strength of character. English-Scotch is a
good mixture ; parents who stray from Britain to
South America in search of a career arell,^ Iyt^) 1 y t^)
be of a strenuous and enterprising type, Maon
land is a fine place for a youth to grow strong in ,
and an Australian public man s ' be M
Australian by adoption, at any rate. Mr.
Watson doesn’t disappoint expectations. Luring
two years he has led what is practically the
dominant party in the Australian Legislature
wTth skill and discretion. He has also kept
his head level and unswollen under a stream
of mischievous praise from the Freetradepressof
Australia. It has seemed good to the Argus
particularly to represent Watson as tne hmperoi
o t Australia, to whom Barton is but as an oifice-
boy and Turner a clerk. This was partly an effort
to be nastv to the Federal Govt., but it was To a
greater degree an effort to be hostile to Watson;
Conservative knows what a keen weapon
flattery has proved against many l
But J C Watson, so far, seems to lack the spirit
of snobbery to which so many have fallen victims
A compositor by trade, J.. C. Watson tookMb
some years a leading part m the labor
movement; he was president of the lr des ana
Labor Council when he won. . th °nKS&cw
mining and agricultural • constituent^, onThelabor
ticket. That seat he held m the State .Parliament
until Federation; with Federation he captured
Bland, the constituency embracing his old.elector-
ate, and subsequently was elected
leader of the Labor Party. A moderate rro
tectionist,” a sincere, though not extreme radica,
a clear, sensible, but not exactly an eloquent
sneaker; a resolute, un-get-attable, but at the
same time an affable, fellow-J. C. Watson is a
o-ood example of that “happy mean which
succeeds in politics when more showy but more
di TaM»go t rthe t pSl I 'and the future « the
Labor leader was full of admiration for the general
democratic tone of the Australian Barhament, it is
far more advanced, in his opinion, than any State
Parliament; the Labor party, consequently had
not found itself so much in conflict with the
OUR GREAT AUSTRALUAN CLIMATE
Arnmac (Q.) Summer 1884 Traction engines
wrliuy [?]
Same spot Summer 1884 (photo taken FOUR U[?]S
Wter) The [?] lvad conme.
general sentiment of the House j members of the
party worked splendidly together, and had had
no internal differences ; next session Labor party
effort would be concentrated on securing a
Federal compulsory arbitration law a
gation Act. The necessity of the second had
Wn clearly shown bv some recent events. I.ie
usefulness of the first would possibly
than many people imagined. I lie Constitution
only gave the Federal Parliament power to arbi-
trate in industrial disputes which affected moro
than one State. But if the trades-unions generally
followed the custom of the shearers, the seamen,
and the miners, and formed niter-State unions,
might bo possible to bring almost all disputes
under the purview of the Federal Court as affe
ing unions which covered several of the States
Mr. Watson claims with confidence that the
Federal Labor party has, on the whole, justified
its existence, and thinks that it will do well at
next elections. _________
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
Ho notice will be taken of communications
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
I Vo liability is undertaken in any caS J ™ C ° n ‘ t 0T
Hons voluntarily submitted, whether se
handed in ; and in no case will MS. b
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
H G • But you should always leb us into the
.ecretojy^—
has Britahf been "aggressive ? ” Where, "Every-
body knows it was the invasion of Engiand by the Ir sh
™p-Fißh>S& S£ SSi
» n -l 0 LP ■ ‘‘Naval E.” isn’t interesting?
Britain first.;• ■: i.* svmerficialS which doesn’t grip
it is a clever statement i oopy ghowB SO me eerie
ter—Ruskin, Spencer, Brj ce, Meredith, the Bishop
rent event Arnold S.B. • lnanas , ** v e
printing on flne-art paper lor framing.. ..A fc tive
Lwhat would be the good to the
tanflf without a law regu t g R j„ h tf u f King” a very
tract labor? Gerald 8.. 8„ th wherewithal to
mechanical humor; and why write the wnei of a
obtain the wished-lor bee _ (i H^w do most o{ the young
drink Mamed woman shop; ask the
ladies spend then- tome to-d ?* E ew f No use sending
giddy staff of S.M. heram*... . gome energy ; not
U kn S 'nM^ in ßD m - SJ Worthless....Shadow: Still too
faint, en ?. JTive" Corner : Can’t much i^them......
Theo : Not up. • • ■: f oun d e d on common sense
“This man admits certain misconduct and
effect sa>s. rtronortion of the costs, but we don t
and “"Trams” unsuitable ..Sirdar:. Too tribe. Kodak
sand’’hafsome crude distinction 'about it, but the theme
is too unpleasant.. ..Crambo AuSidney-striven boozer
whom Jou'see "suddenly taking to
What a lot of co n«Weprefertt pay ior y What we
probably Quite
original—it is bad SJSSf h - n kf b 'We‘”are all nearly
not use r |" r Yes ESS. - was wrong in that
a sertionVand has since been otherwse contradicted
WA- No more stump-burning....Kuth U. . »ucu»n ,
May' show. ““flofflS': You’lThave'to remain
W.T.D. . Dull ana prosy. £ . None of them up to
themadr “?GeebungI The drought is worse than your
poem about it. But this is a record drought Alume r
Not irood R.O. : Kindly cease drivelling... E.L.D. .
Good moraisVbut du11... .Theo : Your footnote is news :
“ All food in the S.S. Islands is called kicJae. I.b.L.|.
One ode to “ lovely Melba ” declined... Mountain Rud .
Hasn’t your mountain a cave? Can’t you hide there?....
Vera ■Don't, dear !... .Nada : The creature squealed as
we tore it -Fiddle : Tuneless.... M.O. : Plaintive, but
weak. Laird : Loathed... .Nimrod : Read twice to write
tt xr Q *» Shadow : Not enoun \ substance. E.P..
Flat . .V.'. Wanderer : Declined. .. H.G. : Try a daily
uauer ...Diarmid: Not bright enough A.B. .
w&ow Jroans Genung : Worthless.. ..Young Gum .
“Fragment” is'now several Wilga : Both show fair
descriptive power, but neither quite up to literary mark
TI W• “ Duty ” has but very moderate merit.... Southern
Gross ’■ Prose sketch too unequal and discursive. Idea
of verse farfetched and ill-handled... :‘ * the
1 letter of the two, but we don t fancy either of them....
Rose T • Va“ue and incoherent Brownie -. Raw and
inartistic....Spinifex: Will be duly consKlered; mema
on M.S. probably not meant for you... .P.C.L. . Situation,
been used before, and handling hardly strong enough....
CAB.: Would not suit Bulletin. .. .11. E. : Nicely
written, but out of our 1ine....E.W.R.: Your hand
isn’t strong enough Runcifal: Had that yarn
*«&.,■k^^rsaSSiSi
uneven, and ends flatly. 3 some “ go” l>ut
rhyme and metre very y A;'' an approximate date
lons' for Bulletin.. ..Battler : Give an H , P ro . x "‘ , T .
and we’ll look into the matter... ..Geo Mac. Style good
?n form but wholly lacking in vigor and vitality . ...Joe l .
Slr ,y PMTr!X n i,"S q" iiW tat !■»»«”“<
Australian 0 ' Will e'.Vita “rmi«o“ 'll'potabl...
di K^L h in&*sft b-
re-written.. ..H.bt. •• p 4 k • Uneaualandgener-
Gawdno : Flat and feeble... of touch....
? U m n nS - a ‘‘ S In C the y S’ V dull°f.. Dido :No story in “Old
Plans ” ’ W. Sat: Hell humor has to be humorous sit s
at k ßevels’^ e too wildlflmprobable.... Alone : “ Phil’s
....L.S.: Possibly par describing what you see around
(Toowoomba). Start by descriDig ■> ious treat-
lines. „ t| [ em o{ freedom and Purity rare 1
Omen of Liberty, name that you bear 1
Tons has your vigil been, long may it be,
Dome of a y contlnent fringed by the sea.
XO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Weribene : When you
ESrSaSwSffiSffc*:
fuH detail, the oral v h , a „dent theme......
vv^R 0< - U< Toke well enough, drawing hopeless Mel. :
W.R. : Joke well enou„ » picture too gruesome..
Terribly ancient. ■■■ •• • (y W.S., W. Alcock, M.S.P.,
Unavailable: Pod, Edgar G.,vv. - > E.8.A..R.M.,
Eric J., H. Brunswick, Roy, Doie, itisie u.,
V.F.P.A., R.J.M., “ Kingsdown.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dmes away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skm.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
A Drink ! A Tonic! A Medicine !
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Call for WOLFE’S Schnapps and nitke sure that
you take nothing else.
Dr. E. BECKETT, Albany, Clinton Co., Ky.,
rst„rxs«»oiip'“.,»nd....
“Something should certainly be done to
!S"i .'r “d hi K ?S3S "SZ si
°»*f KTsS 1 . rf. H-,2:School by a
a proclamation of martial law. _ Tf
SHAKESPEARIAN THERAPEUriCS. 1 1
* • * 1 minister unto ft inind di^c^SGO
Balmain in the old days was full of cap^
SrSeratwal S Si.™ »
sffi^snsss
,Viplnod to found Mort sDock, built a Urge mini
land in the wild and hairy days, owned the first Bat
main ferry boat, and was a mayor. Balmain was
a nle-isant salt-and-tar-smelling place in the days
Xn it was full of captains. Now it is occupied
mostly by ill-paid laborers at one end and under-
paid clerks with cheap straw hats at the other.
A Woman Was to Blame.
T*. ; s surprising bow eager men are to saddle
y£Z S ,11 blme So Sequent ~, tins d„,„
that “ a woman is at the bottom of 1 P j
was not to blame when by taking Bile
jShm cured liereelf of »vere
SSltor tom fiJineis, .ccompanied by
splitting headaches with tliat miserable, sick y
fee ng I had no taste or relish for food, and felt
oompletelv out of sorts. I tried many so-called
remedies to effect a cure, but onlyto meet with
disappointment, and it. was only whep 1 popped
,on the right remedy in Bile Beans that my
troubles IoU. The contents of one box,. taken
in accordance with directions, proved sufficient to
restore me to health, and I can My .say that
Bile Beans are a perfect remedy for Bibioui»i e■
said thaUhis lady was to
blame for’having acted so wisely as her narrative
describes. *
A Profusion of
Silver Nic-Nacs
Solid Silver Bookmarks .. .. 2/-
Solid Silver Pin Cushions .. . .3/0
Set of Solid Silver Blouse Buttons, 12/-
Solid Silver Hair Combs .. ..56
Solid Silver Pin Trays .. • • »,9
Solid Silver Top Hair Pin Boxes .. 3,0
Solid Silver Top Tooth Brush Boxes, 6/-
Solid Silver Cabinet Photo Frames, 9/-
Sterling Silver Curling Tongs .. 5/6
Solid Silver Top Soap Boxes 17h
Solid Silver Mounted Salts Bottles, 3/0
Solid Silver Glove Fasteners . • 1/-
Aud a thousand and one other lino;
all at LONDON PRICES.
OPEN
CL.OSEIO
Sterling Silver
Curling Tonga, 5/6
London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER STREET.


COMPLIMENTS OF THE (DRY) SEASON; OR CHRISTMAS IN HARD TIMES.
1. A drought-stricken Christmas-tree. 2. Tommy Tucker: “Are yer goin’ to hang up yer stockin’ Christmas Eve?” Billy Buckles: “No, ’cause I hainfc
gob no stockings to hang up.” 3. qFather of large `family, who has just been “touched” for the usual Christmas-Box appropriation: “My dear, don’t you
thank the time has come to disillusionise our children’s minds regarding the Santa Claus myth ? It’s puerile, and it’s—it’s deuced expensive ! ” 4. A few home-
made toys, to suit the times. Every man his own Santa Claus. 5. A hint to absentee uncles. No good sending toy yachts out here just now. 6. This is the
vain-glorious citizen who, just before Christmas, always personally conducts a goose home in a bag, with its head ostentatiously sticking out of a hole in that
bag. This year, it will only run to a “Wile rabbit.” 7. There was silence in our boarding-house for half-an-hour when the landlady announced that, owing to
the long dry spell, she could only give us dry-hash on that festive occasion. 8. “What strange bird is that, grandpa?” “That, my child, was a kind of domes-
ticated water-fowl, once sacred to the Christmas feast. It is extinct now. Andrew Carnegie and Pierpont Morgan ate my last obtainable specimen.” 9. Box. :
“Lucky dog! where did you get it?’ “Oh, this is a last year’s one. I buried it last Christmas behind the stable, and, as I like to keep up these good old
customs, I dug it up to-day, and am gnawing it as a matter of form ! ”


* s<ob
,wrU ~ 70
& of 'for fp
wv i{ -jou >four
1 r | It
*-]•£> O P C "
o|,j»si-W- ill J«»sf SW you
,y vjo-ti for insW of .IScf WS*V
»*■ )“ r *-t,!;;.rS''Srsi!^-
J Know -fte
i3Q<C
goJCS OI7
(f'lMs Ct« x
Ptfl'y) •
* you do Vlei'ie
ir7 dv'W- on
i sport"
\, doVT"you ?
t.
""y-S
W
IJ . + ' ./
A/ZA d) 1
L Know do
K«^
j^Va
or s<»neVody
wi II
oil,
ASS oTr >‘ , l' • /
g^f
unless byN.
T“
j/fl' j^& l^ Qr d't \' r &
S. CooK in
Condition
o| binjT'f s<ri-ous .
k , Ssimall ( r7selj‘
\ Barton 3oesVf aoK
| te »»o *)or&
reefs ,r i
/ v 0 r
As
AV g tl
AW r
/ A A
r
■ JO 1 /!
V /
/
/
/
yy/
kf./ &/
- V &?jfZ
/^y
*&4>/
& £fpZ
<4z
w AM-A
/5"/o^
€V€n»i7^
Us>U2>J Y
Wewe. owT
w^ n7l7
of ca ° n
fiMcv
n 'fyzyz
i>! 'ffje AN-A w n«l 5 0n )« o 1« 1 ? h'mjelf
°“ f , f r A^l'6.: I .'
MELBOURNIANA.


Key,-
£3los.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS.
ROTHERHAM SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH
LEVERS, Full Cap, Hand Finished, Extra
Jswelled Works, Perfect Timekeeper, with Pure
Silver Cases, Dust and Water Tight, £8 10s.
Extra Quality, with Chronometer Balance,
£4los, £5, £slos, £6. £7, £8;
Solid Gold, £lO, £l5, £2O.
A written certificate for 8, 4, and 5 years.
Try one ; you will not regret it.
Keyless,
£5.
Free-
trade
Prices.
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, Reliable WATERBURY WATCHES
Long Wind, 8b 6d ;
New Short Wind, 10b ;
New Model, G., 18s 6d ;
Extra Quality, J-plate, 18s 6d and £l.
Silver, 35s ;
Gold, £2 15s.
The reputation of these Watches is a sufficient
guarantee of the reliability.
No-
Advance
20s.
A. BAUNDERS.
Unrivalled non-magnet LEVER.
Perfeot Timekeeper, Screw Cases,
dust and water tight, 20s.
Solid Silver, 85s; Double Case, £2.
A written Guarantee given with
each Watch.
20s.
Black or
Nickel,
30s.
“ FLY-BACK CHRONOMETERS.”
Fly-back only. In Solid Nickel or Black, 30s ;
Extra Quality, £2, £2 10s ; Split Seconds, £3 10s.
Pure Solid Silver, as above, £5, £6, £7, £B, and £lO :
Solid Gold, £l5, £2O, £25, and £3O.
A written certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and 6 years.
TRY ONE.
Silver,
£5.
Solid
Silver,
£2 10s.
WALTHAM LEVERS.
We are Direct Buyers.
Pure Solid Silver Hunting Cases, Extra
Quality Movements,
£2 10s, £B, £Blos, £4, and £5 ;
Gold Patent Cases, Walthams, £4 4s, £5 5s
Solid Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O, and £25.
8,4, 5, and 6 Years’ Guarantee.
Gold
Cased,
M 4s.
& • ■■ A
ill- int lllh Hlk
—Ti g.
Solid Gold CHAIN (Single or Double), £‘2 10s, £B.
£3los, £4, £4 10s, £5. 15ot. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £B,
£6 10s, £7, £B, £lO. Pure Sliver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
rmrffm
A. SAUNDERS.
Diamond BRACELET, 16ot. Gold, three Pure Double Cut
Diamonds, with Bafety Chain, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bamboo Sold BRACELET, all the style, price according
to width, 255, 80s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s :
15ct. Gold, £B, £4, £5, £6.
A. .A LINDERS.
Gold Sword and Pearl Spray BROOCH, with Diamond
Heart, 25s ; 15et. Gold, £2 ss.
Gold Bar Amethyst BBOOCH, 12s 6d.
English Hall Marked.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Style 2-Bar Gold BROOCH,
Diamond and two Bed Stones, 20s.
A. SATJNDEBS.
15et. 2-Bar Pure Diamond, Double Cut,
£2 ; with Ruby, 85s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Style, 15ct. Gold Pearl Set Buckle 2-Bar
BROOCH, 32s 6d. English Hall Marked.
A. SAUNDERS. ‘
New Style, Gold BROOCH, Hall-marked,
Diamond and 2 Red Stones, 22s 6d.
Gold BROOCH, 2-i.a. Diamond, witli Four Red
or Blue Stones, 20s.
Ladies’ Curb Gold''
Chain, Snap Padlock,
255, 80s, 85s, £2 ss,
£3 ; 15ct., £2 10s, £B,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6,
£7 10s, £B, £9, £lO.
10b extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
New tiold Forget-Me-Not BROOCH,
English Hall-marked, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Our 2 Bird Gold BROOCH, 10s. Very neat.
A. SAUNDERS (Registered).
Good-wish Gold BROOCH, 12s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, 255.
No. i.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Long MUFF CHAINS,
Hand Made, Extra Strong, £B, £3los, £4;
loot. Gold, £4los, £5, £6, £7 10s.
Price According to Strength.
Very Pretty Gold BRACELET Diamond, Red, or Blue
Stones, £2 10s; 15ct. Gold, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Peace Offering Gold Bird and Pearl Set
Leaf, 255;
15ct. Gold, 82s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Motto Registered Gold “Dinna Forget ”
BROOCH and Amethysts, 9ot. Gold, 17s 6d:
15et. Gold, 80s ; 18ct. Gold, 85s.
No. 2.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Long MUFF CHAINS,
Hand Made, Extra Strong, £3, £3 10s, £4’;
15ct. Gold £4los, £5, £6, £7 10s.
Price According to Strength.
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Solid Gold Name BROOCH, 7s 6d •
with Raised Flowers each side (Any Name)’
15ct. Gold, 15s. Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ivy and Knob BROOCH, 25s :
9ct. Gold, smaller, 12s 6d. •
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold 2-Heart Amethyst and Love Knot
BROOCH, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-Bar Diamond Double Cut
BROOCH, £2.
vsasaaaaapnt^^
No. 3.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Long MUFF CHAINS,
Hand Made, Extra Strong, £3, £3 10s, £4;
15ct. Gold, £4los, £5, £6, £7 10s.
Price According to Strength.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Peace Offering' Twin Dove BROOCH,
with Enamelled Leaf, 17b 6d ;
15ct. Gold, 255.
Cit
A. SAUNDERS.
15ot. 3-Bar Gold BROOCH, Pure Diamond,
Double Cut, £8 ss. Very strong.
■
A. SAUNDERS.
2-Bar English Hall-Marked Gold BROOCH,
Diamond-cut Amethyst, 20s:
16ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAoNDERS.
Solid Gold, Hall-Marked, Forget-me-Not
BROOCH, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Very Neat loct. Gold, Pearl, and Turquoise
BROOCH, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
High Grade Dadies’ Solid Silver LEVERS,
Full Jewelled. |-plate,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £l, and £4 10s.
Solid Gold, £6 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £8 10s, 10 guineas,
£l2 10s, £l5, and £2O.
Guaranteed 3,4, 5, and 6 years.
A. SAUNDERS.
lact. Solid Gold Pure
Pearl STAR, £3.
Other styles, £4, £5,
• £6, £9, £lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
Any Name.
Secret N ame Gold
LOCKET. £1 ;
Pearl and Red
Stone Set,
loot. Gold, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Beautifully Chased, 9ct. Gold,
large size LINKS, 22s 6d.
Flam, 21s, or with Initials,
nicely Chased, 22s 6d.
loot. Gold, £2; Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
(Registered).
Gold LINKS, 20s
15ct. Gold, 32s 6d
Silver and Gold, 10s;
all Silver, ss.
*
MIZPAH
CHABM,
4s 6d.
#ar CALL AND SEE OUR
JEWELLERY EXHIBITION.
A SPLENDID DISPLAY.
OR SEND POR OUR
1902 COMPLETE ILLUSTRATED BOOK,
POST FREE ANYWHERE.
Photo Locket E
A. SAUNDERS.
New Photo. Gold
LOCKET and CHAIN,
255, 80s, £2;
sorew top, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
OUR PEACE RUN G.
18ct. Solid Gold,
Diamond and 2 Rubies
or Sapphires, £2.
Extra Heavy, £3.
A. SAUNDEES.
Sold Gold Opal Band,
17s 6d ;
3 Opals, 22s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, 30s ;
3 Opals, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
®g§p“ ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 2Es, 30s, £2,
£2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5 ;
Superior duality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
ALL GUARANTEED.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Solid Gold Opal
LINKS, 30s ;
Isct. Gold, £2los. Extra strong
A. LAUNDERS.
Gold LINKS, very pretty, 12s 6d.
Large ■size, 15s and 20s.
Silver; 3S 6d and 4s 6'd.
18ct. Gold,
pure five Double-cut
Diamonds, £5 ;
3 Rubies or Sapphires
and 2 Diamonds,
£3 10s and £4 10s.
Larger Diamonds,
£O, £7los, £lO, to £5O.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. G.old, 5 Opals,
1-Hoop,
£2, £2 10s, £:),
£8 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold,
Extra Strong and
Hea'vy, one or three
Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4, £5.
"With Name,
Band RINGS.
Oct. Solid Gold, 12s Gd,
15s ; 15ct. Gold, 20s,
255,; 18ot. Gold, 255,
30s, 355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct. Gold, 2 Hearts,
Diamond,
and Ruby, 35s ;
2 Diamonds, £2 ss.
For Size, cut hole in Cardboard.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keepers.—9ct. Solid Gold, 5s 6d,
7s 6d, 10s each; 15ct. Gold, 15s; extra heavy, 255; IBct. Gold, 20s;
extra heavy, 80s, 355, 40s. duality of Gold and Finish First-class.
A. SAUNDERS,
SAVE 25 to 50
FEE CENT.
LEADING ART JEWELLER,
SAVE 25 to 50
PEE CENT.
815 & 817 GEORGE-STREET,
Nearly Opposite
Kailway Station,
SYDNEY


“ Scribo ” : Witnessed in t>4 at Mold.
Gaol, the ’hanging of Mrs. Elizabeth Scott, the
first woman executed in Victoria ; also her two
paramours. The woman was a pleasant-lookmg,
trim body of about 30. She stepped out of the
condemned cell as unmoved as if receiving a call
from the milkman or baker. The nigger, a boy of
18 or 19, was sobbing bitterly. On the drop,
Mrs. Scott said to her white paramour: “Won t
you clear me now ? ” and received no answer.
She probably had hopes of a reprieve at the last
moment. There was no occasion to shoot the
husband, because he was already dying. Another
proof that the criminal is usually insane.
A good reform idea is that which Mr.
M‘Gregor Dey is agitating in Adelaide-for the
transplanting to Australia of the Scandinav
system of civil Courts of Conciliation. In case
of dispute citizens instead of going to law can go
to a plain home-spun Court of Concihation
which no lawyers are allowed) and haie tnm
differences adjusted at a cost of a few
If the Court of Conciliation doesn t makethe
neace the parties can still go to law. A 1 ■
meats made before the Court of C. are without
prejudice,” and can’t be used in evidence in a law
action.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm tas
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, 4 which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited.
Query. Why are Australian lawyers so
generally against free education ?
Latest Yankee invention a machine
,ihich lays bricks, doing the work of seven nien,
At Alstonville, Big Scrub, lately, a Hindu
entered the P.O. to withdraw his savings, but,
having counted the cash carefully, lie pushed it
back to the official: “Allri’. Put ’im all back.
Pm all ri’.” Our brother Singh had evidently
been studying the financial policy of N.S.W.
Government, and wanted to know if it nad
“ blued his cash.
Hearae’s .Bronchitis Core
TVRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION.
OOTTGrJAfej - Ci A TV 9 m? . a-nt-v CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this
and a Complete Cure is certain. -■—» ~n i ■wjr-r /%. "D XJ? b* M COXJGr"E3! S I
REMEMBER THAT AND —OH IS HO EXCEPTION TO THXS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO BRONCHIAL
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE S
CURED RII ONCHITIS CURE.
•raw DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
TH CARKIiTd OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
' “ Dear^Sir",—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother Mrs.. ——•
of Lo ndon, England, from which you will glean that
vour medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. I do not wish any names to
fcementioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of I bis letter you choose, and you can confident ly
fe “ I heard of yourexcellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.— Yours faithfully,
Extract from letter alluded to above .
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. >s vei v
much y interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONT HS' TORTURE.
•ETTEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE S
* BRONQHB'IS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“ Dergholm, Victoria.
“Dear Sir—l wish to add mv testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies, without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“Yours faithfully,
“ JAMES ASTBURY.”
We the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidlv successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
- “ - '“ h -*“
the niqdicine sending 10^ anothe ”bottle shwlld'want it!— DTM^DcS’ALD.'TrUikey^vi'x
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.-A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
both'ail ondertul dVi'orgood’, 7 qwickVc«^e* ia uVboi n h°—R. y BASSETr, ll MUalh h Creck'^i^i-oadford!
Victoria.” £
“ , have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me-(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victona.
»I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.-JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
•• I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, andtm amazed at what It has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of l"reathing ha B all gone.-J. HARRINGTON, B.ngegong, Morundah, N.S.W.
<* jjy C o,d, bad as it was, disappeared after tw! aoses.-O. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
absolut
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a of mine with splendid effect. The cure was
,l„t,]y miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, bydney, N.b.w.
..your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.-C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.
«. Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.-(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victona.
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. Th^result was marvellous. It eased me right off at onoe.-
G SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” • . „. . . „
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.-W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the b* 11 ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.-S.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.b.w.
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.
.. v„». Bronchitis Cur, hs. don, rn, yob, , ood Thi;i..n«w «*»*•££»} «• UTSSS
riCuV- “ blo,> - Alm *’ n ~ vfctorU "
'• The bottle ol Bronchitis Cure I eot Iron, yon was mmiical in its eHects.-CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch's
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciatioi
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne,—The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that, it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others. ~ . .
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value o
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchiris Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most, faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.'
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“69Queen-st., Brisbane, Queenslan 1.
“Mr. W. G Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order. -
" We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well or.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a chi d
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are. faithfully yours,
' ‘ THOMASON, CIIATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“ W G Ilearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me We are now never without (he medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
-1 „ d.», Si,. You„ WM.Uj taLt
“Editor Gbklong Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
thp steadv and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchi Cure.’-ELLIOTT BROS.. Ltd.. Wholesal.
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIET(Ht,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
office' No 5 First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney.
”IHt/C • XiU« Uf 1.1 f . TT j Forwarded bv Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally .
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. *ded by any __
THE
SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
Works: DfIPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA (56 Miles from Sydney).
1901, Limited.
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etc.,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay. — sZ 2 s
For all Information regarding Rates, apply to the Manager, Head Oeeice, Dapto;
or A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
‘“Bengep's Food’
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
“ GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
Benger’s Food
For Infants , Invalids , and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive, and Digestible.
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
t> find. My wvf- sounds
the praise of ‘ Benger’s
Food’ everywhere.”
“ If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


POLITICAL
POINTS
Be sure, now, never was it planned
That White Australia be Japanned.
A co. has begun making salt at Port
Douglas (N.Q.). The Commonwealth duty of
12s. 6d. per ton is the cause of this cruel outrage
on the feelings of importers.
In Maoriland, lawyers are debarred from
appearing in the Arbitration Court. A recent
oase, involving 700 men, was settled at a cost of
£l4 7s. These costs included railway-fares and
payment to witnesses of 10s. each.
M A law must be observed till it is re-
pealed,” cries the capitalistic Press whenever the
working classes think that a particular enactment
operates unfairly against them. That cry wasn’t
raised in the Orontes hatters’ case.
The very names of those behind the move-
ment to repeal the “contract labor” clause of the
Immigration Restriction Act were enough to
damn the thing in Victoria—Fallshaw, D. White,
Edgerton and the resurrected £ £ Smith (young-
man-don’t-you-feel-well) all opponents of the
minimum-wage laws.
Some humors from the first book of
“Rulings” in the Federal Parliament: —“It is
very improper for a Senator to sing while another
is speaking.” Unparliamentary expressions ate :
“Willing to be the catspaw of despotism,”
“ political criminal,” “robbers,” “vampires,”
“ghouls,” '“political sausage-skin.”
N.S. W. Parliament generally ends a session
with a champagne supper. Parkes and Dibbs
established the custom; Gr. H. Reid interrupted
it (his was “ a dry push,” as bluff Labor member
Edden lamented); but John See revived it. This
year, for the first time on record, the Opposition
somewhat churlishly refused to be present, and
held a little celebration “on its own.”
“ Vul. V.” : To those in favor of Jenkins’
continental railway I would recom-
mend the careful perusal of E rank Morris’
‘‘Octopus,” for an insight to the extor-
tion and iron-hearted villainy of land-
grab syndicates when once they gain
a monopoly of the railway traffic of
vast areas which have been handed
over to them as an inducement to
build. The novel, which is
based on actual fact, is a ter-
rible indictment of, and warning
against, the syndicate railway
and the horrors arising from that
dividend-hunting vampire.
The other day the head-mas-
tership of a N.S.W. public school
became vacant, whereupon
the local Wesleyan
clergyman hied him to
Sydney and gave the
head of the Education
Department to “clearly
understand” that
“they 4 ’-wanted a Protestant
teacher. Whereupon the depart-
ment appointed a man who is
“clearly understood ” not to be
Protestant. Dill Macky and co.
will, from this, at once perceive
that there is something radically
wrong with the N.S.W. Edu-
cation Department.
Note the, seat-saving dodgery of
the bogus democrat. The “ Reform ”-
elected Hirsch, at the first reading of the
Vic. “Reform” Bill, violently objected to
the civil service special representation clause.
Later on, however, lie “didn’t think it was
any use opposing the general desire,” &c., and
his servile vote went to swell the Government
majority.
Tasmania is financially in a tight place,
but the holy Governor’s screw is still held sacred'.
He now receives £3500 —nearly twice as much as
the Governor of Ontario (Canada) which has
eleven times Tasmania’s population. A proposal
to cut down any future Gov. to £l5OO was
cast out a few days ago with so much shudder
that it might have been a decomposed reptile.
Victorian Treasurer Shiels puts out a pre-
liminary feeler re the abolition of old age pensions
and suggests that perhaps the State granted them
m a rash moment and “the money could have
been more wisely dispensed.” As the money is
evidently wanted to pay for the nine-year free
railway passes that Bent proposes granting to
suburban property-holders, anything may happen.
The gentle and reliable colored man • Pro-
ceedings at Mackay (Q.), police court, Nov'4 -
sfSPiiSig
“enkil ft 6 last-named prisonersa id Me
Deen killum little girl.” He was committed for trial.
find Mnni!" fc 4 w duty of fcbe Government to
d loyment for men who are out of work”
says Premier Jenkins of S. A. And there Jenkins
speaks the immortal truth. The dutv of every
Government is rather to so run the country that
of° work Wh wl S T lling a - ld aWe to toil wiU be out
differen^Vlint- llCh 1S q T Ult , e . a different thing-so
dnetiom h 1 a Gnkms migllt see the dis ‘
in t f', by the correspondence that gets
Australian a p loSt - eVery lnf )P°rtant letter that the
Australian Premier receives from the State
comStairf- 8 -° f a , COId ’ grun W sneer and
complamt about injury done to the latter peonie s
J enkins, of S.A., in particular,
c: i ™ Vl, ffi ln wb i c v h snggests the soured book-
b^ a ss*fCfi. a b& Uok door b “-
The old bridge over the Hawkesbury
builtoufrn mond h^- S - W - ( which bridge was
built out of loans and has never been paid for) is
to be removed, and £22,000 loan-money spent on
Probab | y ’ w ben it out
£JO 000 loan-money will be voted for another
fan dg th a rou ff S h on ’d fcll i SOme - day the tenth br *dge
two on H gH ’ n * d ther ® 18 a de bt of a million or
tw ° Jn ‘ VaCant spaoe between the two banks,
lhe S. Australian members of the House
thiftT' W Ti elected by the whole State; but, as
that cannot be repeated under the Federal law
they have been settling how the country may be
S e ifv° U td! t l !il t aoO,lflic - t amon g- themsefves.
Huckiiy, with the exception of Solomon and
Bonython, they can all go to districts where they
, known while in State
win Wll, ta ke one of the city seats ; a place
wiU be found for Bonython in the South-East.
lhe Vic. Railway Department, its free
postage being cut off, now pays two men to
ni n the , city ’ and fchereb y saves
a year. At least, that is how Bent’s depart-
ment works it out. Of course, every penny saved
m stamps is so much revenue lost to the Postal
Department and so much less surplus to be
Vlctona ; so the Vic. Railways save
abont rnl o a year ’ an , d f he Vic - Treasury loses
* V? £°° a year, and the difference, being the
?-\ of th. e two messengers and their bikes, is dead
loss to Victoria. If Tommy Bent would pay a
logical person £25 to argue the matter with him for
a week he might begin to see this point.
WITH THE SEASON’S GREETINGS.
MADAME: “ Well, what have you got to say for
yourself? ”
Monsieur: “Merry Cris’mush, m’ dear!”
There was some doubt as to whether Bent’s
original idea of issuing free passes for as much as
nine years to builders of new residences in certain
specified suburbs would really “make the Vic-
f?"" 1 ™ llw ays P a y.” till the details came to
lignt, then the doubts vanished like a morning:
thirst before a long beer. Persons entitled to
second-class passes (builders of houses worth not
!? or j.l lan -£400) can travel first-class by paying
the difference, and people entitled to travel first-
class will be granted a rebate should they elect to
travel second-class. This will certainly make the
railways pay pay out hard cash to greedy well-
to-do builders of palatial piles. Patman lias
indeed reached his apotheosis in Victoria, where
it is seriously announced that the State will
actually pay him for the privilege of carrying him
free second-class!
FOR ALL TIME.
“As for the Labor Corner of eight, who voted, against
the second reading of the great Vic. Reform Bill, their
act should stand to them for all time as a mark of the
political renegade.”— AGB
Scene: Judgment Lay ; David Syme takes on a
bit of goat-yarding; hears the trumpet and
wheels up the Labor eight "to get their due.”
Sydney D.T. :
.The Loan Bill for £3,070,472 was duly carried through
,® Assembly on Tuesday night, as, with the assistance
ot the Labor party, it was bound to be.
That’s the daily-press game—“ with the assistance
ot the L.P. If the L.P. doesn’t promptly break
from its support of the borrowing policy it
will be asked to carry the whole burden of the
blame when the crash comes.
After long and anxious search, in which
they were helped by the officers of the Lands
i>ept., the N.S.W. Labor Commissioners cannot
find, within 100 miles of Sydney, as much as 2000
acres of Crown land, in one block, of good enough
quality and well enough watered to suit the pur-
poses of the “industrial farm settlement,” for
winch, some years ago, Parliament voted £5OOO
Al> i j°’ , thou^h such an institution is badly
needed, the money remains unspent—or has been
spent on something else.
One of the most indignant accusations
levelled at the Australian Government by George
-Keid in his Maitland speech concerned its
attempt to pass important legislation at the fag-
end of the session. That fag-end argument always
comes in when there is nothing else available,
lhe fixed impression that all work should be
done at the beginning of the session, while the
end of it is devoted to hard drinking and running
after strange girls, seems to be an incurable
mental affliction with some people.
Canon Boyce, of Sydney, thinks that the
hatter ” episode may be made to reach clergy-
men imported from ’Ome, and wonders if the
law will interfere with the landing of Bishop
Clarke at Melbourne. And why not, anyhow ’
Can t Austraha produce “laborers in the vine-
yard without bringing them from abroad under
contract? lhe United States has before now
blocked the entry of a parson imported under
contract, and if the Land of Washington and
J! reedom does that, why shouldn’t we ?
While the Six Hatters were howling at the
Cornstalks’ gate, the N.S.W. Agent-General sent
along an anguished cablegram to the effect that
ttie trouble was seriously affecting N.S.W’s
financial prospects in London, In other words it
was casting a shadow over the next Big Loan. This
is one of the special joys of the big loan policy.
Almost everything that Australia thinks or does
or contemplates is influenced by the fear lest Bull
won t like it, and that it may hinder the next big
loan or the hope that Bull will like it and it may
help the next big loan. y
Joe Cook, M.H.H., has assured his Lith-
gow constituents that he wants to see the iron
ln< * u ?* r y started, but is dead against bonuses
and won t tax the community to contribute to
put up this blast furnace.’’ And if JoS,p|, “tS
also set his face against taxing the community to
contribute to the support of the 100 or 200 or 300
or more men who are out of work for want of that
blast furnaca he would be logical. This country
has had a long-spell of relief-works now; also of
paying bonuses to the farming industry in the
shape of reduced rents, and hopelessly unprofitable
railways, roads, bridges, and so on.
As a consequence of a long and inex-
pressiMy wearymg session of N.S.W. Assembly
both the Speaker and the Chairman of Committees
are HI with nerves.” It is not the long hours of
sitting only, it is the mental agony to a man of
even moderate intelligence, of having to sit still
without cursing aloud whilst the average N.S.W
-Parliamentary debate unfolds its dreary length
of fatuous insults, boorish recriminations, asinine
scenes and unutterable stupidity. A sensible
speech is a rarity; insolence and folly are almost
constantly displayed. The onlooker for any
length of time feels inclined to go out for a
blunderbuss or to throw the furniture about or
to shriek his disapproval. But the Speaker,
the helpless Speaker, chained down by his office
must calmly, courteously listen to all. No sane
insurance-office would cover a N.S.W. Speaker’s
life without heavy “ loading.”
A proposal by
Hopkins,
t h at th e U pper House
is a useless excre-
scence and should be
abolished, was de-
feated in Westralian
Assembly by 22 votes
to 8. All the same,
the abolition r of
Upper Houses is
coming. The only
excuse for their ex-
istence is that they
are “ a check on
hasty legislation,”
and Upper Houses
which have hastily
passed about 150
Acts authorising the
borrowing of about
£_«0,000 000 are too
hastv themselves to
be of any use.
Federal postal
department has
called tenders for a
daily steamer service to carry mails between
Tasmania and Vic oria ; this is a point
on which Senator Keating has persistently agi-
tated. A request that the service shall be -
exclusively a Commonwealth one has been made;
if agreed to it would bar out the Union S.S. Co.
of Maoriland, which holds the trade just now.
The Westralian Upper House was grimly
hostile to Premier James’s Factories Bill from the
very beginning. The Bill in its original state
included factories, workshops, and shops, and also
offices, and in that respect it was about the most
advanced apd liberal measure Australia has yet
seen. The Council first “amended” it to make
it apply to boot and clothing factories and nothing,
else. Then it restricted it to boot and clothing
factories where at least 20 persons were employed.
Finally, the House of Fossils decided that even
this was too liberal, and kicked out the remnant
of the measure.
It is now stated, as an aggravation of the
grievance of the -Six Hatters, that “ the labor
societies knew of their coming as far back as.
February last.” Possibly—but where is the
point ? If the labor societies had known before
the deluge that would make no difference in the
law, or in the fact that boss hatter Anderson had
to comply with the law. The labor societies
didn’t hinder the Six Hatters landing, and they
had no locus standi to apply for admission on
their behalf. Even if the labor societies had
known last February that Christmas was coming
as well as the hatters, they couldn’t prevent it
coming.
Treasurer Shiels continues to rise to the
occasion, like a long weak rag balanced on end, in
Victoria. He now estimates the deficit, to be met
by new taxation and “savings” at £957,58(5, and
he proposes to meet it thus£33B,ooo by fakes
(£lOO,OOO taken from sinking fund ; £lOO,OOO from
the Mallee land fund which Turner set apart for-
the reduction of the public debt; £60,000 from the
fund provided to pay compensation for railway
accidents; £50,000 from railway stores fund ; and
£28,000 from other loan-redemption funds);
£250,000 is to be raised by new taxes (i.c., by
levying income-tax on people with small incomes,
£180,000; and by levying probate duty on small
estates, £70,000). The rest is to be made good by
cutting down wages, charities vote, and municipal
subsidy—the last being almost the only decent
item in the programme. As for the general land-,
tax—well, there isn’t to be any general land-tax*-
only free railway passes for landlords.
N.S.W. Opposition-leader Carruthers an-
nounced his political programme last Friday (the
“Liberal platform” it was called in the" daily
papers), and behold, it was just the platform of
See and O’Sullivan, also Reid, Parkes, M'Millan,
Bruce Smith, Dibbs, old Jack Robertson, anti
everybody else. Same old planks to a chip ; same
old platitudes to a hair. This is it:—
Maintenance of the principles of Responsible Govern-
ment.
General legislation to be passed upon sound Liberal
and humane principles tending to the common good, and
not upon class interests.
Ministerial administration to be just, firm and im-
partial.
Constitoosh’nal reform.
Economy in State expenditure.
Local Government reform.
Progressive, but prudent, public works policy.
The writer knows where that policy was borrowed
from ; years and years ago he owned a ramshackle
old ten-head mining battery that used to say
exactly the same thing. For days at a stretch it
would dully pound out the words “Ec-o-no-my in.
State ex-pen-di-ture ” as it hit the quartz—the
fourth stamper was especially cronk and
spoke in italics. Then when it was work-
ing more smoothly, or the stone was easier
to crush, it would change its tune and talk
about “Con-s<i<-oosh-nal re- form” for days at
a stretch. There was a hurried shambling 15-head
mill further down the creek which always said
that the “ principlesofresponsiblegovernment-
mustbemaintained, ” but it lost almost all the gold
and was a generally useless and despised machine.
Hotel
Angfrolio
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
This beautiful hotel is fireproof from tower to
basement.
For cuisine, comfort, style, appointments, and
perfection of attendance, The Australia is the
first hotel of the Southern Hemisphere.
It is Sydney’s great summer hotel, being
situated on a lofty site, and catching every
breeze. Visitors to The Australia sleep in a cool,
pure atmosphere.
J. URE SMITH (Late of Menzies’), Manager,
Gastlereagh-st,, Sydney.
TO CBRE SUFFERING ANIMALS.
Amost useful Veterinary Book is attached
to every bottle of Condy’s Fluid. This
Book contains instructions for curing most
of the ailments and accidents affecting
Horses, Bogs, Sheep, Cattle and Poultry.
■Ln this BookeminentVeterinary Surgeons
recommend Condy’s Fluid as a certain
cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
Broken Knees, Grease,Thrush,and Cracked
Heels m Horses.—Scab, Foot Eot, Fly,
etc., m Sheep.—Hoove, Foul in the Foot,
Wounds and Sores in Cattle.
°°ndy’s Fluid is made by Condy and
Mitchell Ltd., of 65, Goswell Eoad,
London, England, and is sold by all
chemists and Stores. Beware of Local sub-
stitutes. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
GrO TO TTTnT.T
J<»OLA NI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagco,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74- Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought, Price-Lists gratis.
“Don’t shout”
" I hear you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
'"How?’ Ob. some-
thing new—The Wilson
Common-sense Ear-
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can't see them
they're invisible. I wouldn’t
i know I bad them in myself,
only that I hear all right."
The Wilson Ear-Drum (s
really a substitute for the
.working parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
, different from any other de-
' v *ce Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
>. CWAUtUft, 229-281 Collins Sf., HelD.,
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins-si., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-Bt., Sydney.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
SPECTACLES
m
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION. n
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
struo tions and Price List, our marvellouslv-accurate
and popular SELF SICHT-MEASURINC PATENT
By its use you can Test your own sight and de-
termine for yourself the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write for it to—
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
371 George-st., Sydney, next A J S. Bank.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums '
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. K. SMYTH & CO.,
88 KIHCr ST., SIDNEY.


OUR NEW
COLLARETTE
SHOE
THE
BY POST
f to any address
1 in these States
-I
II
LETTER
FROM
A Much
Pleased
Customer
NO
RISK
IN
FIT
-Mmnm. CALLAGHAN & SON.
Gentlemen, —Enclosed please find balance
due to you for shoes. lam pleased to say that
your shoes are very satisfactory, being by far
the best I have received from Sydney or elsewhere,
at the price. Will recommend my friends to try your
establishment. If you have a price list, please forward
ie Yours faithfully,
T.A.M., Mundooran.
NOTE.— The Shoe sent to this lady was our Collarette Shoe.—C. &S.
12/11
POST FREE
DUTY FREE
13/6.
f AMERICAN GLACE KID SHOE for
-( LADIES, with Dressy Patent Leather
V.Toe-Cap, and new fashioned Collarette.
Please remit by P.O. Order or Postal Note.
CALLAGHAN & SON, sss ceorce st„ Sydney.
Bladder Troubles cured by
VITADATIO
Read Mr. O’Connor’s Testimony.
Venetian, Kennedy-street, Glebe Point.
Mr. S. A. PALMER, 9th April, 1900.
Dear Sir, —You will be glad to know of the cure your
medicine, VITADATIO, has worked on me. About 12
months ago I was attached with inflammation of the
bladder. For eight months I was under the treatment,
of three of the Sydney doctors, but their efforts failed to
cure me. In November last I commenced talcing VITA-
DATIO, and in less than two months I was thoroughly
cured. I have had no trouble since then.
I trust this letter will be of use to you, and induce
others to try VITADATIO.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) S. W. O’OONNGB.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER ,
184: Pitt Street , Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
Price of Medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
The Veterinarian.
Tv
m
fc.
rout*
The
Standard
Preparations
of ... .
SALVITIS
FOR
RESTORING AND CONSERVING
THE HEALTH OP
Horses
Cattle
Sheep
Pigs
Poultry
Dogs
SHOULD
BE TRIED!
Used by Leading Stockowners.
SALVITIS INDEX of DISEASES
To be had of Storekeepers, etc.
Direct Agents for New South Wales—
E. RICH & COfIPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
At Dawn and Dusk:
By V. J. Daley. In handsome cloth,
with portrait. Price 65.; postage, 4d.
Recently experimented with, in Sydney,
from a seventh floor in a Wynyard-Square build-
ing, the Zimmerman patent fire-escape. The
apparatus consists of a strong cane basket, bound
with iron, provided with rope of any length re-
quired, and fitted with two guys for steadying
purposes, which have first to be flung down and
attached to an iron ring sunk in the pavement.
The rope is made fast to an iron bar fixed to the
inside wall of the room, and the occupant of the
basket can perfectly regulate the rate of descent.
Victorian Leg. Council, at the instance of
Mr. Balfour, has tacked on to an administrative
Amending Education Bill, a provision which, if
assented to, will strike the first blow at the Vic.
system of secular education. At present, there is
no religious instruction in Vic. State schools, but
clergymen are permitted to use school buildings
after school hours to impart facts about Zedekiah
and Jonah to those children who chose to stay.
The Balfour proposes to change this system by
keeping in all the youngsters until the religious-
minded ones have finished. While religious in-
struction was being given, they were to be kept at
toil on vulgar fractions, or something of that sort.
Do You
Wear a
Truss?
If so,
TRY
Denver's Elastic Truss.
' IT IS THE VERY BEST.
No Discomfort to Wearer. Suits any Rupture.
PRICES: 17/6 Single ; 25/- Double.
Send Measure and P.O. Order.
DENYER BROS* 281 Opp. Hunter St.
AND AT MELBOURNE.
ORNAM€NTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anythin you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Itoyal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Rbquisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
CRAIG & AITKEKT,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
Newman’s
Antiseptic Pastilles.
The Best for all Affections of the Throat.
TRY THEM. PRICE-ONE BHILLINC.
S. HARRIS, M.P. S., Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Telephone 2388. 82 KING-ST., SYDNEY.
John Forrest, in passing through Ade-
laide, attended at the University to. receive an
honorary LL.D. The undergraduates sang at
him a doxology :
Praise John, through whom the water* pour
At Hannan’s Town to each back door.
God made Fremantle rather warm,
But John has made it safe from storm.
A skeleton slowly descended upon him from the
roof as he took his degree, but what (if of any-
thing) this was a symbol was not indicated.
A Vic. railway retrenchment chicken came
home to roost the other day in the shape of a ver-
dict for £llOO and costs for the killing of a carter.
This was the result of the cheeseparing policy that
puts women in charge of gates that men should
look after, and allows an electric warning signal to
remain out of order because there is no one
available to fix it up. That verdict will take a
good many days’ pay of gangers to make up.
Some English papers suggest that one of
the reasons for Mr. Chamberlain’s trip to S’ Africa
was that:
he might be absent from Parliament during the debates
on the Education Bill, as the pro-clerical policy of his
party must necessarily be distasteful to him if he retains
any shred of his Non-conformist convictions.
But that consideration surely would not have
weighed with so experienced a Judas.
Harry Morant and his sorry fate, told of
in “ Bushman and Buccaneer” (now in its second
edition). The history of the Breaker and his
verses and letters, including photo, reproduction
of the Pietereburg gaol MS: Price one shilling.
Booksellers and Bulletin office (post free Is. Id.)
Missing Friends.
IF this should meet the eye of ANDY MILLON,
who left Taihape, North Island, New
Zealand, some 6 years ago, or any friend
knowing his whereabouts, would he or they kindly
communicate with the undersigned, who will
supply news of beneficial character.
G. N. JENSEN,
Taihape.
North Island, New Zealand.
IF JOHN WILLIAM MATTINSON,
son of the late JOHN WILLIAM MAT-
TINSON, of Toowoomba, Commission Agent,
will communicate with the undersigned he will
hear of something to his advantage.
UNMASK NIOOL ROBINSON & FOX,
Solicitors, ?
272 Queen Street, Brisbane.
An abrasion, a cut or a scratch is
an opening in the horny skin-wall that
protects the tissues within from the
germs without. VINOLIA contains no
germs, and is specially prepared for
shaving, and for the complexion, and
the nursery.
The KTEJ'W SHORTHAND (Rgd).
COUNTRY PUPILS.
Distance is no object, as the New Shorthand is wonderfully easy, and may
be taught by post. A Lesson Book accompanies each lesson, and postage
must be paid by pupil both ways. Letters of inquiry will not be answered unless the postage be prepaid.
NEW SHORTHAND
is the simplest yet invented, and the great beauty of it is its legibility
to be read when written. No matter whether smart or dull, you learn
in 21 lessons. The Dull pays no more to learn than the Smart. Take as long as you choose between lessons.
Master one, and then come (or send) for the next.
EXTRACTS FROM PUPILS’ LETTERS.
N.S.W. No. 203.—“ I commenced the study of your ‘New Shorthand’ system on October 28. The more I
study it the more I like it.”
No. 289. —“ I must say I consider your Shorthand a most simple and admirable system.”
No. 292.—“ I have managed to get from 60 to 60 words a minute so far—not bad for 10 days."
Two of these are gentlemen living in the COUNTRY.
ADELAIDE (Head Studio) - - Mr. ARTHUR C. CREW
Branches. Chief Examiners.
Sydney, 7 Moore St. Mr. W. Charlton Hubble
Melbourne, 406 Collins St. Mr. Fleming Dodd
Perth, William & Murray Sts. Mr. T. Arthur Cepp
Brisbane, Q. (Courier Buildings)
Mr. Alexis L. Holtze
Hobart, Tas. Stock Exchange Buildings)
Mr. R. Egbert Oaten
Bankers—Adelaide: The Union.
Branches.
Launceston, Tas.
N.Z., Wellington
N.Z., Auckland
N.Z., Dunedin
N.Z. Special Representative
Chief Examiners.
Mr. E. A. Winter
Mr. Fredk. Thomas
Mr. D. J. Why born
Mr. William C. Ryder
Mr. S. Chant Holland
(S.A.) Port Adelaide (facing the station) Miss Hime
(S.A.) Clenelg (Jetty Road) Miss Berry
Branches: The Commercial.
%-
m
m
-T'
vale
The
P u :
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
i v..:. .
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s “ Trade
Mark ” on band inside, as above.


Banking, Public Companion, Ace.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
($»
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
asr-s.-w.
|||ont deplete I. C<>., Ctd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
•7 A. CASTLEREAGH ST., *7 A
‘ SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
, '—THU—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Ben. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. O. J. Robsrts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Mim.kr.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299—assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Benuses—eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
fhe Bank of north Queensland
LIM IT 151).
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700.000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250.900 ... £350,000
Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMITED.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £451,307
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 181,859
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 56,000
£689,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Queensland Smelting jjompg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
•DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 62 Market-street. Melbourne.
H E SAVINGS BANK
HAS MONEY TO LEND in VICTORIA
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £2OOO to £15,000, on Town
Properties ; £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES, and
sums from £5OO to £2OOO at 4£ per cent, on Town
Properties FOR FIVE YEARS, WITH OPTION OF
PAYING OFF PART HALF YEARLY.
FARMERS’ CREDIT FONCIER.
Loans up to £2OOO at 4J per cent. FOR 31 £ YEARS.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Market-street, Melbourne.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Go.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building’s, G-eorge Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital „ .. £2,500,000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £9576 13 4
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq.';
0. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A.—LANG, Assistant Manage!
OR. J. COLUS BROWNE'S
fNLOROPVNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLUS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c -> bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr. J.COLUS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS at
Sept. 28, 1895, says;
“ If I were asked which single medicinal should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, 1 should say Chlokodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
Supping.
IST. ID. L.
(NORD-DEUTSOHER ULOYtt)
Three-Weekly Mall Service
__ or
Twin Screw Steamers.
Oih^? EN r GE 5 S BOOKED to Egypt, Naples Genoa.
Gibraltar, London. Antwem r»_V. °**
r . xwiu-Bcrew steamer
Wing MELBOURNE Wednesday after Sydney
for Ite r turn e RetUrn Tickets are now available
o rtl!m. Co!’8 lerB ° f the P * and °" °'ient
via B —. new guinea.
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. TAIMGLI N . 7th JANUARY,
tt„„ A " d Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Sneed
outeiL an OIVILITY e ’ Accommodation
TY - F ° r fUrth6r P* rtioul « B apply
strlet!S“- HMANN & C °- UNITED, 7 and 9Bridge-
TN€ AB€RP€€N UN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London*
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. £55 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Capo and Natal .. £3l 10s .. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets trom £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
JDalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, Parker $ (Jo’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOIIA UT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND POUTS
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
-A- 2VT Xl>
LIKTE
via
San Francisco,
California.
FASTEST ANP BEST
ROUTE
SO
ENGLAND,
Via America and Canada*
THE GREAT { 0 } HIGHWAY
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM,
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, and AMERICA.
The NEWEST, LARGEST (6000 Tons each), FASTEST,
and ONLY TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS engaged in
the TRANS-PACIFIC PASSENGER SERVICE from
Australia and New Zealand.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCICA NIC BTKAMSHII* CO., TjTl>.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
°“1 No. 56 ACETYLENE CAS Catalogue
*8 the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Best
ACETYLENE CAS GENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, and
everything in connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatio
Acetylene Gas
Generators
in daily use.
Large Stocks of the
Best
Carbide
of Calcium
Quotations on application.
James MARTIN & CO.,
161 Clarence Street,
Nr. King-st., Sydney.
notism
Reader, "why not be able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
i that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
.of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the xind
ever published. For a short
time I wi 1 send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a chance of
a life-time. Address—
jpm
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Established 56 Years.
FOR SALE r
ROOFING FELT, 75ft. x 32in., Bs. roll.
Large Stocks WIRE NETTING.
500 Tons BOLTS and NUTS, up to 30in. long.
COPPER BOILERS, up to 120 gallons.
5 Tons lin. OCTAGON STEEL, £2O ton.
Good Quality FUSE, in cases, 300 coils, 4Jd. coil.
And one of the
LARGEST STOGKS of IRONMONGERY
in Australia— Cheapest Prices.
JOHN MACINTOSH & SONS,
Wholesale and Retail Ironmongers, Importers
Builders’, Contractors’, Engineers’, Plumbers’,
Cabinetmakers’ and General Ironmongery, and
Painters’ Material.
307, 321, 323, 325, 276, 278 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Free for Asking:.
WRITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to John Wilson, Box 135, G.P.0., Adelaide, S.A.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address. —L.D.I., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL—
Dec* 29, Jan. 26, Feb. 23.
THE FINEST SEA-TRIP IN
THE WORLD.
The Canadian-Pacific Railway
is the Great Tourist Route
of America.
THE CHEAPEST ROUTE HOME.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
TTCTn
SPOOFEK’S
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning; and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS HEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Medical.
A CERTAIN CURE for GRANULATIONS
and DIMNESS of SIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED
Eye Lotion.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
LADIES
WRITE FOR VALUABLE F'REE BOOK
CONCI RNING YOURSELVES.
Am/xtESS—L.D. 1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Models from Life, Beautiful Ster< o
scopics, etc. List with 100 Minin
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos.
55., P. 0.0. or stamps.
8 RECKNACEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Germany.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LTMITRD).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FSPERANCE BAT
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingat Fremantle
toall North Western Ports
S.S. Innatnincka,
Saturday, Dec. 27, at Noon.
S.S. Marloo,
Saturday, January 8.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oalrns
S.S. Allinga, Sab., Dec. 27.
S.S. Innamincka, Saturday,
January 3.
S.S. Warrego, Sat., Jan. 10.
nest and Cheapest Honte to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
Q. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. l\|. Ooy. Ltd.
HOYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THU POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Maokay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Twice weekly, via Bris-
bane, Maryborough, and Bundaberg.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 8 Weeks, via Brls
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
via MELBOURNE—Fortnightly.
Vassent/ev A ceo nmiodntton, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are Interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. 11. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PIIILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, li) Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P.
AND
o.
COMPANY’B
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERB
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
UT I) CJUP A km ODn/\\TT\ nA r xr
Via Hobart.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON-Single, £3B to £77
Eitto Ditto Return, £O6 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific,
Messageries Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Mar it lines
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARISL
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows:
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Custom*
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P, and 0.
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydnev.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
• . BY THE . .
“E. AND R.” LINE.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
These steamers specially built for the Eastern passenger
trade are fitted with EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR
TROPICAL TRAVELLING. The Saloon Cabins con-
taining two berths only are all on UPPER DECK AMID-
SHIPS, and are large, cool, and fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates.
For handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD., GIBBS,
BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents, 37 Pitt«st., Sydney.
. . SMOKE . .
INSIST
on having this Brand
and no other.
Largest Depot:
231 CLARCNCC STR€€T,
SVDNEI'X'.


THE HOTELKEEPERS’ FRIEND.
Soda. Water Id. per doz.
Lemonade and Ginger Ale, 3d. per doz.
Hotelkeepers make their own supplies of
Aerated Waters.
No skilled labor required. Anyone can learn to
operate the machine in ten minutes .
TESTIMONIALS.
“To the Daylesford Mineral Water Co.
“ Dear Sirs, —The machine purchased from you is per-
fection. Tiik Stuff turned out is Splendid. It is the best
speculation I have entered into since I joined the Licensed
Victuallers.—Geo. Nioholls, Royal Hotel, Swan Hill.
Mr. P. Kennedy, Coolgardie, says :—“ Profits saved by
making my own supplies of Aerated Waters with the
Machine pay the rent op my hotel.”
Mr. Lewis, Heidelberg, Victoria, says “I have made
thousands of dozens of the best Aerated Waters with the
Machine, and it has not required sixpence worth of
repairs. No Hotelkeeper should be without one of
them.” _
Mr. W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W.,
says“ It is the greatest money maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.” .
Mr. Burk, Yalgo, W.A., says Since getting one of
your Machines, and making our own soft stuff, I have
saved its price ten times over.”
W. 11. Jones, Peak Hill, W.A., says “Machine great
success.”
E. Davis, Peak Hill, W.A., says “ Cannot speak too
highly of effectiveness and simplicity.”
G. N. Murdoch, Abbotts, W.A., says:—“Value of
Machine indisputable ; quality' and cheapness of stuff
unquestionable.”
T. H. Williams, Mossman, Queensland, says Highly
successful, and recommend to all hotelkeepers.”
J. S. Davidson, Bundaberg, Queensland, says:—“Great
saving compared to previous cost of stock.”
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many small
centres of population, where a deeply-felt want exists for
A GOOD QUALITY of AERATED WATERS. OBSERVE THE PROFITS.
Call and see these machines, or write for circular describ-
ng them, also Price List. Prices Reduced.
Daylesford Hepburn Mineral Water Co-
-407 COLLINS-STREET, MELBOURNE.
If
you
are
suffering from
exhaustion, Vari-
cocele, Wasting,
Weakness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and
packing), and i will send a trial bottle of my
REMEDY, FREE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which
give back strength of body and brain, renewed
vigor, and development of the vital organs;
not a free prescription dodge, but a trial of
my wonderful remedy free for the asking.
PROFESSOR H. READ,
165 Collin-s Street, Melbourne.
Charcoal
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
Speedily cures Acidity. Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, &c. It
destroys all disease germs, and,absorbing all impuri-
ties in the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards off all attacks of Typhoid
and other Fevers* Prevents many an illness.
BRAGG’S PURE CHARCOAL POWDER in
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
(pleasant to,tako). Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Having had complaints of the injury done by other
preparations,please see that each Bottle or Tin bears
the Trade Mark ■ J.L.8., in monogram,’ on the wrapper.
MEDICAL GALVANISM.
“ IV/rESSES. HALE AND SON’S FIRM has distinguished
itself in the development of ELECTRICAL
SCIENCE as a MEDICAL AGENT. By an entirely NEW
METHOD of application they have succeeded in produc-
ing an ELECTRIC BODY BELT, which for COMFORT,
EFFICACY and GENUINENESS, is unquestionably far
superior to any previous invention. Yet the whole appli
ance is so compact that it only weighs a few ounces. In
this age of shams it is something to get an article that
has some power apart from imagination.” —Medical
Monthly.
HALE’S IMPROVED ELECTRIC BELTS have con-
quered the most OBSTINATE cases of NERVOUS and
other DISEASES after all other remedies have FAILED.
OUR SPECIAL ELECTRIC BELT WITH SUSPENSOR
FOR GENTLEMEN HAS NO EQUAL. Catalogue and
Price List gratis. CONSULTATION FREE.
HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
44 CASTLEREAGH-STREET, S/DNEY.
ARNOLD’S
S
ARNOLD’S
OLD’S
j^RNOLD’S
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
OF HOREHOUND
For Coughs and Colds.
Every Dose Effective.
Will Cure when Others Fail.
For Pain in the Side.
Best for Influenza.
In Bronchitis and Loss of Voice.
Whooping Cough and Croup.
For Children, Safe and Sure
nv
j\\TATEWX
Mention
this
■Weals.
Men
AND
WOMEN
Can obtain strength and vigor
by the use of DR. PIERCE’S
ELECTRIC BELT.” A Won-
derful Restorative. The most
Scientific Electrical Appliance
ever made. Drugs do not cure.
! This Belt does. Send stamp (any sort)
for “Booklet No. 2.” Write to-day:
Pierce Electric Co., 206 Post St.
San Franoisco.U S-A., VV. H. Soul & Co , Agts. Sydney
WOOL. PRODUCE. GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
aCT A s selling BROKERS OKTL-S*.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
'(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
will be 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools"realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb. ... ... ... : -.. 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising FOITRPENCE per lb. and
t under ls - 6d - P er Bale -
Perfect System of Weighing. Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
AGENTS FOB McDOU GALL’S SHEEP DIP.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney
(Corner of
Clarence Street)
19, 21, 23 King Street, Melbourne.
BOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES . . .
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Bteam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pumps, Turbine Fans.
9
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
<Go to the Fountain Head
i h - -—■ —
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
cure-alls.
Vigor and Strength ,” ho
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 1886, has so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your-fellow man
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
Seels: the Truth, it; costs Uothing!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, cor RusselU Collins Sts., Melbourne.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.'*
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is (id post.
Practical Palmistry (latest.), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s (id posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is 3d.
Secret History of the Court of England, 1 6 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Uf-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Ciievassk’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is Od posted. S uu>no, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 21 posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illns. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
Tub Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Bigr Book
Catalogue post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to 10st. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
TAEAR SIR, —I have been cured of weakness and De-
1J bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and wil'
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. 1
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no chary
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURSI,
v Pl *+ street, Sydney.
/ta>i(Al/*\Ert
F INDIOEjTIo^
j/YcrVo us'—^
BLAIR’S
GOUT h RHEUMATIC
FII.IIS.
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBACO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. l£d. and 2s. !)d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
EMAIiLT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GRIMAULT & Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstke & Tkuman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstric & Tkuman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Health,
Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
QS RK CORDS
P ,sSfc** cE °f UV f £
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord's Kssence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St,
Melbourne j Wholesale Agents for New South Wales —
f. H. Faulting & Co., 16 O’Ccnnell St.. Sydney.
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo-n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. •
uddress-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.


SPORTING NOTIONS.
One of the Melbourne city pubs issues a card of
newspaper tipsters’ selections for the Saturday races—
before they are run. A few hours later that card, as a
rule, makes melancholy reading for the punters who
looked to it for guidance. The tipping record for five
days’ racing, from Nov. 24th to Dec. 2nd, was as follows :
<» i« w “ 5a
•“ S' <-*
8eleet icmg. j a
WjniMn.
r&cXrcu s
- K
SeJontionu. a 2
60W0 ti
Winner*. E 3
'2
--**-H**~**-
a & v* or. zp-
ES
Selection* g
3OO.*0tt
Winner*. p
£■ 3» £ 5 £
Selection*, £
O COOK
Winner*, p
t«OW»
Selection* (c g
W>- t&C-
Winners. *
¥>'X>
t_J
Selections. - g
CO
Wiliam. £ *
5
A grand total of 353 newspaper selections—some of them
“odds-on" chances—yielded 17 successful tips. The
prophets, on an average, picked a winner once in every
21 guesses I
• * • •
There’s lamentation in Israel over Sydney pro-
prietary race clubs’ raising the betting fees to a guinea a
day. Extra expense of stipendiary stewards' pay is the
club’s excuse, but Ikey will yield considerably over and
above that outlay. Recently W.A.T.O. approved of
following fees being exacted from each of that section’s
raucous-voiced : Enclosure, 70 guineas ; flat, 35 guineas.
Eastern Ikey has much to be thankful for still.
• * • ■
Winner (Cherson) of A. J.C. Nursery, Saturday,
succeeded in handsome fashion. He was bought at foot
of brood mare Nada by present owners (Messrs. H. E. and
A. V. White) at St. Albans stud dispersal—both going for
450 guineas, with the fact that Nada had been served
again by Oherson’s sire—Bill of Portland (imp.) thrown
in.
* • • •
“ Shop ” tote and double business of Adelaide,
which for long brought heaps of joy and coin to
those in it, is probably a thing of the past now. Pro-
vision in the Act, that gives police power to prosecute all
found in the “ shops,” did the trick effectively. Falling
off was so great at one big place that, where 3000 half-
crowns were previously invested in one afternoon, less
than 300 passed over the counter latterly. Last shop put
up its shutters t’other day, mainly through police parad-
ing outside, and thereby scaring business off. Meanwhile,
“perambulating totes” (in the persons of individuals
with capacious pockets and a “ gun ” appearance gene-
rally) and straight-out betting goes on in the streets as
merrily as ever.
* * • •
Big Sydney Tatt.’s dislike of new National
Sporting Club is explainable. Tatt.’s offer no induce-
ment but facilities to bet and wet; the National
Sporting Club has attractive gymnasium, baths,
etc. So Tatt.’s has decreed that none of its
members shall belong to a “sporting club.” About
200 members are concerned. Sydney Commercial
Travellers’ Club, Amateur Sports Club, and other organ-
isations all come under the head of sporting; ’twill be
interesting to watch if the big Ikey concern will bar
them. All Sydney Tatt.’s legislation is for the protection
and fattening of Ikey Mo—nothing else.
• * * »
Q.T.O.’s three days’ meet disbursed £3130 prize
money. Mosman, M.L.0., owner of Balfour, gathered
£830; M. Callaghan, £305; and M. F. Ramsay, £2lO. The
first loss for many years is reported, £6OO odd, of which
£563 was due to that tote blunder ; but machine receipts
were £3764 less than last year ; the land is beginning to
feel the effeets of both Philp and the drought.
• * • »
The chairman of Melb. Hospital committee
remarks —“ It seems somewhat peculiar that strenuous
and unceasing opposition to the totalisator for even such
a laudable object as charity is the one and only subject
upon which churches and bookmakers are “cordially
agreed.” And it is still more peculiar that the parsons,
who profess to oppose the tote because they think it a
new incentive to gambling, never propose to reduce the
ranks of the bookmakers by imposing a big charity tax
on those protected parasites. Why not a hospital tax of
£lOO a head on the registered Ikev, anyhow ?
* * * •
Bowler Hugh Trumble announces his “ definite
retirement.” ’Tis a pity, from a cricket point of view.
He’s unquestionably the ablest trundler Victoria has
produced. Fifteen years ago he appeared for Vic. against
N.S.W., and has missed but two matches out of the 30—
the Vic. match in ’B9 and the Sydney first fixture last
season. His record is 135 wickets against N.S.W., the
inter-State record. Turner is next with 125, and
Evans third with 107. In England, last season, an
injured hand kept him out of the first matches of the
tour, but he averaged 948.2 overs, 305 maidens, 1988 runs,
140 wickets ; average, 14.20.
• * • •
George Giffen announces that he will not be
able to play for S.A. this season, except in the matches
at Adelaide. He has a good position in the G.P.0., and
finds increasing difficulty in getting away.
* * • •
N.S.W.-S.A. cricket-match started Friday in
Adelaide, Cornstalks at the wickets. Attendance poor,
about 700. Duff and Trumper opened. Jones’ first ball
to Trumper should have had him but Waters dropped it,
but in the next over he held one off Travers, and the
champion was out for 10. Noble followed, and by good
play gilded over with much sterling luck, put up 100 in
2hrs. 20mins. Another eight saw him caught; his score
included a fiver off Giffen and 10 fourers; it was his eighth
“ hundred ” in Sheffield Shield matches four each
opposed to Victoria and S.A. This is the Cornstalk
record. Duff made 94, and then Kirkwood clean bowled
him with a slow full pitch to leg. Stumps drawn—6 down
for 227. Rain made pitch damp and slow, and, bar Pye
(25 n. 0.), there were no more stands and innings closed
for 285, Jones securing bowling honors. S.A. commenced
disastrously; Howell bowled Reedman first ball, and
bagged Hill for 14. Stonewaller Hack batted 2|hrs. for
48 ; Pye caught Geo. Giffen (27) and bowled Kirkwood (0)
in one over. Crow-eaters seemed afraid to hit out, and
the day ended all out for 140. Kelly, as wicket-keeper,
never let one slip him ; bowling honors were Pye’s—4 for
31, then Noble 3 for 34, and Howell 3 for 51.
* * * *
Latest N.S.W batting colt, J. R. Mackay (37
and 57 XI. v. XIII. match), is 22 years old, and full of
sand. He came from Uralla, with 618 n.o. to his credit,
and, since starting cricket between five and six years ago’
has made 27 centuries. There are possibilities about
Mackay.
• • • *
Discarding of Marsh by N.S.W. in S.A. was
Justified by his poor shaping with N.S.W. XIII. against
the XI. Noble is captain, and ’twas he who kicked
against the aboriginal a year ago. Noble says he is unre-
liable, and he is.
• • • *
Within probability that Lord Hawke’s team
may jet meet a N.S.W. eleven in Sydney. At present there
is some slight misunderstanding, but as the N.S.W.
authorities leave the matter in the visiting skipper’s
hands, it is hoped the Englishmen will play one match in
Sydney en route for Brisbane, where they finish up and
leave for Vancouver, March 26.
Cabled that, as a result of the five English tour
tests, Australians got £4248.
• • • •
“Gate” in connection with recent Australian
XI. v. N.S.W. XIII. match panned out £7oo—half goes to
the XI.
* • * •
N.S.W. XIII. v. Australian XI. match ended
as reported in last Bui<lktin. Rain prevented further
play. With N.S.W. 227 and 214 and Australians 191 and
7 for 185 (wanting 65 to escape defeat) contest was a
pretty even draw. Strangely enough, this Australian XI.
began and ended its existence in the rain. It engaged
in 46 matches all told and lost only two.
• * * •
In the N.S.W.-Vic. cricket tussle, Friday, the
Gumsuckers may be short of some good men.
Trumble threatens retirement and close attention to
business ; Armstrong and Saunders are more than doubt-
ful, owing, it is whispered, to a prominent Victorian
player having written to an English umpire that ’twas the
chance of a lifetime for him to “ no-ball" Saunders and
Noble.
■ • * *
R. N. Hickson, who compiled 68 (n. 0.) for
N.S.W. against the Australians, is only 19, and was the
youngest of the team. Last year, for Syd. C.E. Grammar
School, he topped the Great Public Schools’ performances.
He is a finely-built youth of most brilliant promise.
• • • •
N.S.W.-Queensland cricket fixture this week
gives five new men an opportunity. Team is good, but
N.S.W. has such a prolific crop of cricketers that still
another XI., equally good, could have been picked.
• * • •
Whilst touring S’Africa, several members of
the Australian XI. received very flattering offers to
remain, simply to play cricket. However, as no definite
agreements were signed, the wily Australians agreed that
the terms offered were excellent, and then carefully
packed their grip sacks for the return voyage.
• ’* * «
“B.B.” : The idiotic choosing of N.S.W.
cricket-team to play against Vic. and S.A. before the
playing of the XI. v. XIII. match shows how far
a selection committee can go. In the light of recent
events at least three of the dozen should not have
been picked. Marsh trundled horribly, and is a wretched
bat as well. Returned Australs. Howell, suffering from
rheumatism, and Hopkins, who played much below his
English form, would have been better eliminated for
Mackay, Hickson and Howard.
* * * a
Lord Hawke’s team opened Maoriland tour
against an Auckland team last Friday, and won the toss.
Failing light and rain stopped play at 7 for 243. Heavy
downpour during night made things bad for batting,
but 321 were accumulated. Auckland went out
for 120, and at stumps draw, Saturday, the follow-on had
6 down for 31. EngliBhbattingisparticularlystrong.no
tail being visible. Captain Warner’s play is finished and
stylish, and he hits round the wicket and drives clean
and weightily. Top-scorer Fane’s (82) forte is cutting.
Burnup (43) got his mostly with fine behind-wicket shots.
Dawson is brilliant, especially at driving, and Taylor’s
skill is greater than his smiting power. English bowling
stuck Aucklanders up frequently, Burnup being very
deadly with medium-paced deliveries swerving to the off.
He got 4 for 27, and Bosanquet 5 for 44. English fielding,
as with Maclaren’s team, was excellent.
* • * *
The Adelaide “college match,” won easily last
week by Prince Alfred’s, was only notable for a fine
inniegs by “ Solly ” Hill, Clem’s youngest brother, and
the last of that long family to play for the school. Hill
had the bad luck to be run out at 99. At one time there
was a useful Hill-Darling partnership, the latter youngster
being Joseph D.’s nephew. The end of the game was
spoilt by rain, but immediately afterwards 40 sheets of
iron were put down to preserve the wicket for the N.S.W.
match, two days later.
• • * •
There was a free fight at the big college match
in Adelaide on Dec. 13. The boys from St. Peter’s and
Prince Alfred invariably occupy adjoining sections of the
grand-stand, which always ebb and flow with yell or
groan or cheer, as the game fluctuates. On this particular
day, a “ Saint ” began waving a blue flag over the nearest
row of reds. The irritation was endured awhile with
nothing worse than muttered expostulations, but at last
a P.A. seized and tore the bunting. Then arose trouble,
and, ere calm was restored, two policemen had been
tumbled over by the excited boys and several scrimmages
had taken place. The masters discreetly allowed the
tumult to subside without intervention. On the Monday
all the trouble had been forgotten, and Saints and Princes
were mutually cheering each other.
* • * *
Four of the Hill brothers (sons of John Hill,
head of the well-known Adelaide coaching firm) were out
cricketing on Saturday (Dec. 13). Clem., in Sydney,
made 28 ; H. Hill and F. Hill, playing for E. Torrens Chib
in Adelaide, made 56 and 23, not out, respectively ; Stan.
Hill, batting for P.A. College in the big match on the
Oval, compiled 57, notout, in fine style. Surely in first-
class cricket this must be something like a record,
although long ago three Gregorys often took the field
together.
• * • •
When the English cricket-team reached Maori-
land, the usual young man with the fountain pen waited
on sub-captain Warner, Taylor and Burnup, the three
crack batsmen of the team, and asked their opinion on the
proposed increase in the width of the wicket. The
English sports simply said that as they were blowed if
they knew how wide the wicket is at present they
couldn’t say anything about it. Query: How many
cricketers really know the width of a wicket ?
• •• • •
Bananaland’s lathy aboriginal bowler Henry
will figure in Sydney this week. The continent doesn’t
own, just now, a man who can send them in like Henry,
nor does it possess a bowler who so literally lets bowling
run away with him. Authorities credit him with a
speedier delivery (as long as he lasts) than ever Jones
boasted, which means that the black will be a revelation
to Sydney.
* • • *
First-grade rounds in Sydney cricket won’t be
resumed till the return of N.S.W. team from Vic. early
coming month. Other grade competitions, Saturday,
supplied sensational results. Burwood v. ’Varsity saw
former’s fourth wicket go for 101, but not another fell,
and runs totalled 393. Chinn (143) and Baker (125), both
not out, piled the heap up. Second St. George team
hunted leather while five North Sydney men accumu-
lated 548—Sayers (206) and Clarke (143), each still going
strong, contributed the major part of the score. St.
George thirds also came in for a decidedly warm experi-
ence ; Leichhardt-Balmain, compiling 523 for 7 wickets,
had their opponents chasing all the time. Principal
scores were Howe 147 (not out), Walsh 98, and Carrie 93.
Record against St. George for the day was 12 for 1071—a
staggerer. Sundries were much in evidence. Those in
Burwood-’Varsity match reached 61, and Leichhardt-
Balmain v. St. George 86.
* • • *
T’other day, at Bendigo, Harvey Sutton wiped
out in one swoop whilom Sydney Harrier J. F. Dalrvmple’s
Victorian (2.02-5) and Australasian (1.59 1-5) half-mile
records, which had remained unaffected for 10 years.
Two watches showed Sutton’s speed 1.57 4-5, and a third
1.58. There was nothing hair-raising about Dalrymple’s
figures, particularly the Victorian best, and ’tis surpris-
ing, indeed, that no one succeeded in shattering them
both long ago. Last Australasian premiership games in
M.L. saw Queenslander D’Arcy Wentworth equal the con-
tinent’s best to the fraction. Sutton’s feat is rendered
more brilliant by the fact that he did it on a grass track,
which was, upon re-measurement, found 2£yds. in excess
of the 880. Sutton is only 21, has just been through five
years of medical study, aad is prominent at cricket, foot-
ball, and lacrosse.
• • • •
The star performer at the Public Schools sports
in Melbourne this year was N. W. Barratt, of the Scotch
College, an 18-year-old boy, whose success is the more
remarkable, seeing that he hasn’t the use of his hands.
In the Scotch College competitions Barratt won the
100yds., 220yds., and quarter-mile, 120yds. hurdle race
from scratch. Also, he took first prizes for the high
jump (sft. 3in.) and long jump (20ft. 3in.). In the Public
Schools championships he was to the fore in the mile
and J-mile races. After which the name of N. W. Barratt
cropped up again as winner of an Ormond College resi-
dent scholarship, so his brains can’t be all in his feet.
* • • *
World’s premier cyclist “ Majah ” Taylor came
to Sydney by the ’Murkan mail boat Ventura Saturday.
His appearance is youthful, with a frame sturdily put
together ; if he gets into anything like shape he ought to
stagger Australian cyclists. Most of the best riders in
the world, including present champion Ellegaard, have
been beaten by Taylor, who tells that he has ridden
a mile privately in 1.17, and doesn’t see why—when fit —
he shouldn’t break the existing world’s record of
1.15 2-6. If he strikes form here he’ll try.
Maoriland Wheel Race(£7s) went to Geo. Suther-
land, who won from scratch, covering the 2m. in 4.40
and beat 32 competitors. N.S.W. scratch riders would
have won that coin in 20 seconds less than Sutherland
did.
* * * «
Melbourne Bicycle Club conducted its Austral
meeting (spread over four Saturdays through rain) in a
modified odor of sanctity and respectability, though there
was a liberal cohort of flossiedom in the best seats and
transparent yokes.
Attendance was
very moderate—
mostly “paper."
Competitors were
carefully railed off
from the public by
double fences, 6ft.
apart, lest they
should be openly
corrupted by I key
Mo. This precau-
tion was needless,
as the few Ikeys
who attended mere-
ly insinuated their
desire to “ take
two to one ’’ in a
subdued whisper,
and the raucous
roar that used to
he was absent.
Plugger Bill got
tender treatment
from the officials,
who evidently
wanted him to win
at least one race.
To make up for the
absent Don Walker
the club provided
a 5-mile canter for
motor-cars, which
suggested tremend-
ous possibilities for
that form of sport.
Five started, but
only two had much pace ; these covered the 5 u.j
in 9.22 on a grass course. Fastest mile took 148 &&
Winning machine was a 2J horse-power affair, built
by Beauchamp, of Prahran (Vic.) Cutting the sharp
curve round the press-box the winner struck an angle of
65°. On an asphalt saucer track a race between fast
machines would be a hair-raising spectacle.
* • • •
N.S.W. League of Wheelmen should carefully
gag the Yankee wheeler, Major Taylor. At Auckland the
dusky flier was “ doubtful as to his success owing to
changed climatic conditions and being entirely out of
form.” Probably the Major’s idea is to talk himself down
and pose as a monument of modesty and then scoop the
pool in a brilliant burst of excellence ; but if the great
exacting Australian public gets the idea that the Major
is off color as well as black it won’t roll up and leave a
pile of shekels at the gate. Australians generally dislike
boasters, but have an utter contempt and indifference for
the fellow who doesn't boast for all he is worth. They
roll up to see the first fellow taken down, but they don’t
trouble about the latter at all.
» » « •
The rifle-shooting record of the Echuca cadets
won’t be easy to beat. They have won the Sargood
Shield (4 times), the Gumming Shield, and the South-
street Shield—7l consecutive wins against other schools,
and 70 individual prizes.
• • • •
N.S.W. J-mile swimming supremacy went to
Dick Cavill, at Bondi, Saturday, after a tremendous
tussle with George Read—not the Dry Dog. They were
locked till 40yds. from finish, and the crowd made
the welkin (whatever the welkin may be) ring
as Cavill landed the title by a little better than a yard.
Time, 5.49 2-5, is 12sec. slower than the Australasian
best fOavill’s), and 17 2-5 behind the world’s (Billington’s).
Cavill was not at his best, and Read was still apparently
stiff from shipboard life. But he should be back to his
wonderful form of last year during present season.
• * • •
Question as to who won the English “ hundred”
supremacy is now raging in Sydney. Lane, Cavill, and
Englishman Derbyshire were declared first, second and
third respectively. Lane’s yarn is that he touched,
and immediately afterwards heard another “smack
on the wooden boom,” which he knew to be
Cavill’s smack, then, turning, he saw Derbyshire
strike the boom with his head. Cynics want to
know how Lane heard, let alone recognised, Cavill’s
smack, with the cheering of hundreds lifting the
bath-building roof and the tumbling, worked-up water in
his ears. The men in the water would be hardly able to
hear the howling din, let alone a solitary smack on a
wooden boom.
* * • •
Second round of Sydney bowling clubs’ supre-
macy on Saturday was thick with sets-back : Gladstone
Park, Redfern, Randwick. Ashfield and Mosman dropped
out. Balmain, expecting to romp over Ohatswood, went
down by 20. Strathfield-Annandale match, antici-
pated a soft thing for former, resulted other
way about. Redfern, contrary to expectations,
went under to St. Leonards. St. George beat Ash-
field by 39. Stiff westerly affected all greens and
rendered play flukey. Looks now as if City and Victoria
Park will have final to themselves ; but the way of the
bowling prophet is precarious.
• • * «
Alf Thompson-“ Monty” Andrews scrap at
Sydney National Sporting Club was well-attended and
full of ginger. Thirteen rounds of heavy slugging saw
Thompson on top all the time. The second round was
terrific, and the air was so thick with whirling fists the
light couldn’t get through. But for the fact that Boz.
gloves were used the thing would have ended imme-
diately in sudden death, but though Thompson
hit like a steam hammer, Andrews “ smothered ”
like a four-poster mattress. In the eleventh round
Monty’s nose and mouth stopped Thompson’s left
absolutely, and then his body did the same office
for a swing, and a number of new stars so dazzled his
vision that thereafter he couldn’t fight, and the referee
mercifully ended it.
• * • •
Sydney dailies are as bitter against boxing as
against Federation. Tom Mitchell, after his defeat by
Johns, Monday night, broke up completely at beingbeaten.
He thought the fight a good thing, and the shades of his
friends’ lost dollars sat heavily on his soul. Morning after
he was taken to Sydney Hospital he informed friends and
reporters that there was nothing wrong with him, and
that he wished to leave, but sensational cross-headings
and pars, kept on appearing. Even’ Nooze of Thursday
(Mitchell was going to be discharged next day)
published that he had partially recovered but was
still seriously situated. On Saturday night the alleged
dying man sat on his alleged coffin and seconded the
winner Lynch at the Golden Gale fight 1
• • • •
Snowy Sturgeon and Jack Thompson fight for
a £2OO purse and £lOO a side at Sydney National Sporting
Club Tuesday night. Snowy has been vainly seeking
stoush for two years, and ’tis doubtful if he’ll shape as
well as of yore. Thompson hasn’t the skill that Snowy-
still evidences, but he’s a rising tide and has swamped
everything met so far. That low guard arm and his
failure to eat up old, played-out Bill Jennings in quicker
time than he did, seem to indicate that Thompson will
go under.
• • • •
The cyclonic bruiser Lynch, of Wngga, N.S W.
took on Sam Maber (brother of one-time famous
“ Shadow ” Billy) at Sydney Golden Gate A. 0., Saturday
night. Things were lively, though somewhat one-sided,
as Lynch had too much knowledge and condition. Maber
seemed to have lost the vigorous sting that won the
novice tourney and made difficulties for Alf. Thompson
at Sydney Gaiety A.O. Thompson probably punched it
all out, for theirs was a desperate battle. Bruisers are like
fighting dogs sometimes, and a bitter battle takes all the
zest for punishment out of them—as witness 'Murkan
sailor Sharkey, once considered on the world’s champion-
ship plane, but Jeffries, Fitzsimmons and Ruhlin cut him
up so that he’ll have none of the game now. Maher’s
corner gave in at the close of the fifth round, and Lynch
got the decision. Maber will probably drop out of the
business.
The value of preserved and frozen meat
exported from Queensland during the first nine
months of 1901 was £947,944, while for same
period of 1902 it reached £1,390,872 ! To out-
siders these figures would imply a flourishing
state of affairs in the north; but to most
Australians they have another significance.
Stock from hundreds of Q. stations were simply
rushed to the preserving-houses to save them
from dying of starvation, and this, with drought
losses, has so depleted the Q. runs that the next
two or three years will witness a tremendous
slump. Another aspect of the case is that, while
this meat is being retailed abroad at 44d. a lb.,
people in Sydney, Brisbane, and elsewhere are
paying from Bd. to 14d. per lb; and there are
scores who have not tasted meat for months, while
others again are paying 4d. to fid. for wallaby.
A Bulletin correspondent:—
Trenwith thus far has not justified his allegation that
David Syme “ tried to induce ” him to repeal the Vic.
Railway Lands Acquisition Act. Syme declares that he
has never spoken to Trenwith, or had any communication
with him upon any subject in his life. If Trenwith can
produce any evidence of pressure being brought to bear
upon him by the Age proprietor, why doesn’t he produce
it ? As matters stand, there is a very palpable personal
motive for Trenwith’s attacks on the Age and its boss,
but not a sufficient reason for accepting Trenny’s state-
ments whole. Ten years ago the enemies of Syme (whose
collective name is Fatman for the most part) charged
their bUe noir with pure malice in his persistent denun-
ciations of poor Dick Speight’s railway management.
Syme’s newspaper undoubtedly hastened the expulsion of
Speight and the inevitable cutting-down of railway expen-
diture. The imputation of malice in that case looks
absurd to-day. Speight had to go. The Age was attack-
ing a bad railway regime when it established a precedent
for Trenwith’s easy cry of “ Malice 1 ” which, by the way,
is the cry of every sort of public performer who feels hurt
by adverse newspaper criticism. Isn’t it about time that
sombody looked for paltry envy, hatred and malice in the
frothy maligners of David Syme, the wealthy, plain-living,
intellectual hard-grafter?
Astounding item from the American mail-
summary of Australia’s holiest and most proper
daily, S.M. Herald :
FANCY HOSIERY PREVENTS WEDDING.
A telegram from New York on November 18, published
in San Francisco Chronicle, states :—“ The marriage of
Miss Margaret M‘Dermott,of Elizabeth, N, J.,and Terence
Sheehan, of Newark, N.J.,did not take place as scheduled
last evening, in consequence of the discovery by Sheehan
that Miss M'Dermott wore open-work hosiery. The
couple went to the office of a Justice of the Peace in
Jersey City, accompanied by two friends, and said that
they had come to get married. Just before the ceremony
was about to begin, the tying of the bride’s loosened
shoe-lace disclosed the fact to the bridegroom that
she wore open-work stockings. The bridegroom
remarked that he agreed with the views of
the Brooklyn clergyman who recently lost his
pastorate by denouncing open-work hosiery. In the
course of the ensuing dispute between the loving couple,
the groom said he would not marry any girl who wore
such flimsy stockings, and the girl said she would wear
whatever she liked. It all ended by the intended bride
and bridegroom leaving the Justice’s office in angry mood
without the marriage taking place.
Poor Mr. James ! He is too innocent to know that
whenever a woman wears open-work silk stockings
her shoe-laces are eternally becoming untied.
| FACILE PRINCEPS. [ | SEMPER IDEM. ]
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
RED BIRD BICYCLES
The Speediest, the Most Comfortable,
and the Strongest Bicycles built. . .
Branches In every State. GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King-st., City.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue.
The Others.
Behind every printed testimonial of a cure
effected by Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
there are thousands of others unprinted. Tens of
thousands of men and women have testified to
the cures of scrofula, sores, pimples, boils and
blotches, eczema and rheumatism (caused by the
blood’s impurities) through the use of this remedy.
If the fact that Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
purify the blood were required to be proved in a
court of law, and one thousand witnesses were
waiting to testify, justice would have no use for
997 witnesses of the thousand ; it would call two
or three representative witnesses, and on their
evidence the case would be decided. Those who
witness to the blood purifying power of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills are reputable,
reliable, and responsible people, whose testimony
would carry weight in any court of law in the
land. It should carry weight with you. It is one
of the contradictions of human nature that people
who believe “that all men are created of one
blood ” belie their own belief in practice.' If
John Smith testifies to a cure, little notice is
taken of the fact; if Senator somebody is cured
of a boil, then the medicine must be all right; yet
blood is the same in King and Kaiser, Prince and
Peasant, Senator and trainp. It is made in'the
same way, of digested food ; it is circulated
the same mechanism. If an Emperor’s blood xa
impure he will have boils or some other eruption,
like the commonest of his subjects. The medicine
that will purify the blood of somebody, will purify
the blood of anybody. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills purify the blood, anybody’s blood—every-
body’s blood, Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
are a positive and permanent cure for biliousness,
constipation, indigestion, headaches, sallow com-
plexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples,
boils and blotches, and for female ailments.*
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.


The Hot stifling *** /Jco*
Why not get a Refrigerator, and ««o *>•*
Keeps all perishable heefbelrl
of/"** often savesjife.
Our ice is mad. from distilled watery
as Hard and as clear as crystal. * * *
Sent in special transport boxes to any
railway town wH * r * *lf * JcEEIST
agencies. SEND FOR. A PRICE, LIAI
- ISha .
N.S.W. FresH Food (SL Ice Co. Ltd., Sydney
(3HRISTTIAS PRESENTS
.. . , a -r*
are a bit overdone just now, aren’t they? Everybody who sellsanythingthinksjUs
just the thing for a Christmas present, and wa are just like the any .
you, those of you that go for something useful, to say whether y S
thing nicer than
JTassey=Harris Bicycle
Call
You know its reputation, and it is always a pleasure to give the best of its kind,
and see us, and we can also show you some lovely
Cricket Bats and Cricket Sets, Lawn Tennis. Golf and Sporting Goods of every description.
High-grade Goods only.
CANADA CYCLE & HOTOR CO., Ltd.,
Branches Bver y S.a.e, 357 OEOROE ST., SYDNEY.
Open
Saturday
Afternoons.
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
YOU GET
THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
BUY A
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel . .
Hammerless Gun.
Thoroughly Guaranteed. -
Kept n stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company,
Head Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 ios. to £l5
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free
McLEAN BROS. & RICC, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OF INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER and
A PEN CARBON BOOK
makes a complete outfit with
which any
' MAN,
WOMAN OR
CHILD
can write a letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy without
leaving the slightest sign of copy-
ing on the original.
It keeps a duplicate of bills you send out, of orders, receipts, bank checks. It leaves no vague
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original.
From its testimony there can be no appeal. It will save any house or family much money by its
indisputable record.
There is no man or woman, professional or not, who would not at some time or other find
THE PEN CARBON LETTER BOOK
A True and Valued Friend.
For fullest particulars, price, etc., write to the sole
Agfents For Australasia.: E« RICH & COa LTD«j SYDNEY BRISBANE
m
POR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That; is “ EUis’ King- Street Coffee Palace,”
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. iV. ELLIS.
By Special
Appointment
G. H. SMITH and SON,
TROPICAL HELMET
witbspectiUttor-rpace,
in trial* drill, the. and
in all colov»infelt.
10/6 and 12/6
Eat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers,
302 Ceorge-st. Sydney
Sombrero Soft Felt Hate,
All Shades and Sizes.
Soft Felt Homberg'S.
In all Sizes and Colors.
Straw Hats. Stetson Hats.
Polo Caps, Military and Naval
Caps, Livery Hats, Clericals ilk
Hats, Etc., Made to Order
SHftRPSHOOTINg
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK I
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett. ;
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published.
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W. W. CREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative).
OAPS dubbed Shaving
I are rarely
Shaving Soaps.
In a Class by Themselves
The World’s Standard Shaving Soaps
Williams’ Barber’s Bar
and
Williams’ Shaving Stick
“BARBER’S BAR”
While the natural Ally
Of the Deft Artist
And his Trusty Blade
Is also the Ideal Soap
For Home Use
Fits your Birthday Mug
Once tried, never changed
“Won’t Dry on the Face.”
Send a Penny Stamp and we will post you Williams'
Changing Face Puzzle. Can you explain it? J
I J. B. WILLIAMS'CO., Glastonbury, Conn., U.S.A.; f
and at 232 01arence-st., Sydney. v
“ Miss Mac,” whom everybody in Ade-
laide knows to speak to, and hardly anybody
knows by sight, has been in the telephone dept
ever since its first starting, 20 years -
most of the time at the head of it. I otner
day she made a semi-public appearance in
her proper name of MTntosh, when r.JM. •
and staff presented her with something in green-
stone and pearls—rightly judging that not even 20
years spent in saying “Areyou there? to perfect
strangers can quench the feminine weakness r
trinkets.
University Commemoration at Adelaide
caused the usual trouble with the undergrads.
The Chancellor (Judge Way) is not popular, and
the presence of the Tennvsons (who are) effected
no restraint. The boys have a printed programme
of highly personal songs, a verse for each
degree-taker, and a pause is always made
for them to sing; but they don’t keep to the im-
plied bargain, interrupting all through with yelis
and particularly exasperating electric bells. 1 his
year Judge Way tried giving them all an enter-
tainment the evening before, but it made no dif-
ference when the time came. The Register
claims that they should either be excluded alto-
gether or kept in order by the police.
Melbourne Hospital has been reduced to
the necessity of supplying rabbits to the patients
in place of poultry. The finances of the hospital
are going to eternal smash. The Government,
led by Iceberg Irvine and Shiels the raven, cut
down the subsidy, and the general policy of the
same two dismal, shortsighted politicians, in
bearing down wages all round, has had the effect
of interfering with the flow of private donations.
Treasurer Shiels suggested to a deputation
recently that the churches should support the
totalisator and raise a charity revenue in that
way. Against this the goody-goodies have kicked
sorely. Perhaps it would be more in accordance
with the wishes of these people if a special tax
was placed on church land values for the benefit
of the charities.
Melbourne Argus says :
There is no proposal in the Reform Bill to deprive the
public servants of their franchise.
Quite true; who said there was ? It is simply
claimed that in many places the votes of two or
three dozen public servants may turn the scale at
an election, therefore by giving the civil servants
two members of their own and shutting them out
of the general body of electors their influence is to
be diminished. And if other classes were treated
similarly the civil servants would have nothing to
complain of. Two or three dozen teetotallers, or
landlords, or Orangemen, or Presbyterians, or
farmers, or Roman Catholics, or pick-and-shovel
men, or shopkeepers, also turn the scale at many
elections, and each of these classes should similarly
be shut out of the general body of electors and
have members of its own. In fact, any class
found turning the scale at any election should be
similarly treated.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of Chemists, or from PARIS MEDICINE CO., 28, Shoe-
lane, London, England.*
The newly-enfranchised women voters of
N.S.W. should read The Bulletin’s “ A Policy
for the Commonwealth,” by James Edmond.
Post free from Bulletin office for 7d.
"Bead That Again!
The man and woman stood at the altar and the
minister was engaged in the interesting\task of
uniting them in the bonds of holy matrimony.
The ceremony proceeded without interruption
until the minister inquired of the bride, “ Will you
love, honor, and obey this man ? ” when, without
allowing the bride time to respond with the usual
“I will,” the bridegroom exclaimed : “Read that
again please; read it dead slow. I want the lady
to get the inward and spiritual meaning of those
beautiful words. Pve been married before.”
That bridegroom was a knowing man. Not
only does much interesting matter entirely escape
being read, but much that is read receives so little
attention that the readers profit nothing. Some
people think it a waste of time to read advertise-
ments ; but what of the numerous genuine cases
of men who have starved in this country while
they were being ineffectively invited by advertise-
ment to step forward and claim fortunes to which
they were entitled in England ? What also of the
numerous sufferers from indigestion who daily
ignore announcements of a world-renowned
remedy entirely effectual for the removal of their
trouble? Mr. Joseph Cooper, the well-known
and respected artistic wood carver, of Currie-St.,
Adelaide, S.A., is not one of these On the 22nd
March, 1902, Mr. Cooper stated : “For two years
I was a great suffer from indigestion and sluggish
liver. I had no appetite, and the little food 1 ate
lay on my chest like a leaden weight. I frequently
had pains in the chest and between the shoulder
blades, the latter sometimes of extreme severity.
I used to dread to go to bed, because of a sense of
suffocation which I there experienced and of my
inability to sleep. After a restless night I would
rise with a furred tongue, a bad taste in the
mouth, feeling weak, nervous, and exhausted, and
in a very poor condition to begin work. I tried
many remedies, but though a few of them afforded
me slight temporary relief none of them, did me
any permanent good. About twelve months ago
I read an advertisement which induced me to try
Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup. By the time I
had taken the first bottle my health was much
improved, and three bottles made me almost well
again. However, I continued to take the Syrup
until I had used seven bottles in all, by which
time I was thoroughly cured, not having suffered
in the least from indigestion or liver troubles
since. Thanks to Mother Seigel’s Curative SyrUp
I can now eat heartily any food I have a liking
for, can sleep well, and enjoy life generally. I
recommend it to one and all with the'utmost con-
fidence.”*
Engineer Electric Plant.
Nice, clean work, Rood pay. Wouldn’t you like
it ? We’re here to help you. Study by corre-
spondence Electrical, Steam, Mechanical
Engineering,—
Plumbing, Heating,
Ventilating or
Mechanical Drawing.
These subjects are taught
at home by correspon-
dence ; also Steam,
Jlechanical and Elec-
trical Engineering,
Mechanical Drawing,
etc. Write for informa-
tion and Handbook “ B.”
American School of
Correspondence, at Ar-
mour Institute of Tech-
nology.
Sydney : Box 629, Q.P.O._
Compliments
of the
Season
to all
Cyclists*
X
I
Ring Out tlx news
OUTPACED <& OUTLAST
« . . All Other Tyres
FOR EITHER ROAD OR TRACK RIDING.
Roadster Tyres Guaranteed for Twelve Months.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane and Christchurch (N.Z.)
Only Genuine
when the Cover and
Tube
bear
this *
Trad* Mark.


%
%
?
\
h
I
///,
Vf
“ s>o you kayi Ogd&Tu Gumea-'fjotd -Cigaiuttu ? ,:
7l<3 -diji j J jell them TTlUlumA of ‘eon. ! fi
100 Photo. Cards=l Album.
I I ■l3nmMaßSaanaaaMMMßßCagMM
If you send or bring to the undermentioned address 100 of the Photographs as packed with our Cigarettes we will give you a pretty cloth-
bound Album, made especially to hold these pictures. Should you live in the country it will be sent to your address free.
OCrBEM’S, LIMITED, 45 York-street, Sydney.
In N.S.W. Assembly, the other night.
Kelly, M.L.A., moved that the minimum wage
for railway and tramway men and policemen
should be 7s. a day. Fitzpatrick proposed that it
should be Bs. a day. Sleath suggested 10s. a day,
but just then the House adjourned, and an
interesting subject dropped.
Promotion goes by seniority in the Vic-
torian Public Service. Recently a clerk was
wanted for the Attorney-General’s office, and by
the seniority rule a lighthouse-keeper had first
claim on the billet. Premier Irvine, who tells
this story, doesn’t say whether the lighthouse-
keeper got it or not; but even if lie had, he
wouldn’t have been a much greater absurdity than
market-gardener Bent as Minister of Railways.
Sydney D.T. waxed most virtuously in-
dignant during the Melba concert season at the
overcrowding of Sydney Town Hall, dilating on
the prospect of a panic in such a crowd ; so the
gaudy Mayor directed his orderly, Earl (or so)
Martin Carrick, to reside permanently on the
premises, to keep the unseemly crowds in their
right place. The D.T. greeted this arrangement
with great pleasure, and the very next day came
out with a trumpet-yell of satisfaction at G. H.
Reid’s big meeting—“ packed to the door; aisles,
gangways and passages crammed.” This audi-
ence, the biggest the D.T. ever saw, was presided
over by his Illuminosity the gaud Mayor himself,
his orderly, Baron (or Duke) Martin Carrick,
lending his moral support.
S. Australia’s best-known locally-grown
cartoonist, J. H. Chinner, has descended to a
suburban mayoralty. The only extenuating cir-
cumstance is £lOO a year.
HAVE you
A MILES
Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Fcrhaps your knees arc swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
lfallowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
wa i-' ,*°. u . ma y have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
n,™?- JR • üb ™L t t 0 an, P u !ation ; but do not, for I CAN
C-UKL YOD. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILD. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, aud Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
1 n Great Britain, ]/]sd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents s ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
Carter's
There’s SECURITY In
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
\ FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
They TOUCH th. LIVER
Be Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
Cartels
FREE!
//
*
y
Cut this out and send It to us, and we will send you
free, postage prepaid, in plain wrapper, a copy of the
New Edition of our splendid, invaluable and standard
illustrated medical work, “Electro Therapeutics,”
which acknowledged medical treatise should be read by
every adult.
The Twentieth Century Belt
Our Improved Belt is the most modern and perfect in the world. It
is stronger than any other, and is a Certain Cure for All Cases of
Nervous Disorders, Weak Back, Lumbago, Rheumatism, Liver, Kidney
and Stomach Troubles, Come-and-Go Pains, and that Tired Feeling. It
will cure after all others fail. Our Belt gives a soothing, warm,
strengthening and delightful current of electricity into the afflicted
nerves and system while you sleep. It never blisters or burns the body,
because it is constructed to give electricity in a proper way.
NO CURE, NO PAY.
Others claim this, but I am the only one who will really send a
valuable belt absolutely free, on trial, for three months. If you are
cured I know you will willingly pay ; if you are not cured, you will not
have to pay one penny. Write at once, or call and test my Belt free.
No charge for personal consultation.
The Dr. J. fl. Austin Electric Co.
39 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL *900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETIXIOKT.
WINES **• Bed B £* 01 SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS. &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
ROB ROY pens
Hinks, Wells & Co. beg to draw attention to this new series of
turned up pointed and other pens, made of the same material, by the
same tools by the same process and at the same works, as the well
known series of Waverley Pens, which Hinks, Wells & Co. have for
30 years and upwards (prior to September 1901), manufactured for
and supplied to the proprietors thereof.
&
Sold by all
Stationers in 18
varieties in '
6d.» Is. ftgrossjMXMi
HIMKS, WELLS & CO., Bivminjltain, England.


A Quiet
Nip“—
Four Crdwn
Whisky
me
V±
Scepticism Thwarted.
Such Daily and Hourly Proof Must
Convince all Unbelievers.
The Case of tyr. JANILS WINGFIELD.
(BY A SYDNEY SCRIBE.)
What with the seven years’drought, a re-
urreuce of the plague in our midst, and
shucks of earthquake in various parts of the
country,it is high time that a definite policy
for purposes of personal defence should be
dopted, and altli ugh there are some
elements of disaster which cannot be re-
sisted, it is no reason why we should not
make the most of the opportunities at our
disposal for overcoming some of them.
Effective aid in the shape of advice is given
below by Mr. James VN ingfield, of Ko. 14
Garden Avenue, Glebe, who says
“When I came from the country seven years
ago I was down for eighteen months with
inflammation of the lungs and pneumonia.
My constitution was fairly broken up, as for
nearly three years I was not able to do a
stroke of work, and, of course, that meant
everything going out and rot ring coming
in. The consequence was that as soon as I
could get about at all I took the first job
available. The work was heavv —much too
heavy for me, in fact —so that what little
strength I had was soon exhausted ; but it
was not until I severely strained my back
that I realised the great risk I had been
Following closely upon that mis-
hap, I caught a terrible cold in the kidneys,
which, in turn, was attended by an awful
attack of influenza, thus showing how one
misfortune follows another. I managed to
jog along in extreme difficulties until the in-
fluenza came, but that proved too much for
me altogether, as I went right under as
soon as it seized me.”
“ Was it necessary to take to your bed? ”
asked the p: essman.
“ Rather.® The pains fn my head were
so intense that I could not hold it up, and
my temperature rose to an alarming degree.
My back ached worse than ever, while my
limbs were so much affected in the same
way that I could not get any ease no matter
in what position I lay. Supervening upon
those torture j came a burning pain in my
eyes, over which I had two bandages placed,
and also one around iny forehead, to see if
my agony could be reduced. I must have
looked as if Iliad been at the Boer war,
but I can tell you it was no laughing matter,
for 1 could neither eat nor sleep, and I
deeply regretted to find that the cold was
getting on my chest, which became clogged
up during the night, and in the morning, as
soon as daylight came, I started to cough,
and a very heavy feeling oppressed me till
I got my chest cleared again. However, I
have to be very thankful that at the critical
moment, when there was every likelihood of
a prolonged and calamitous illnes* being
again experienced, I resorted to a medicine
which had previously enlisted my implicit
confidence, as, by its timely use, the im-
pending destruction was averted. To be
explict, I must tell you that after my ill-
ness with pneumonia I took to using
Clements Tonic for the purpose of recuperat-
ing my vitality, and I met with so much
success through the revivifying powers of
that medicine that I naturally looked to it
to strengthen me again. But Clements
Tonic had a chance of doing more this time,
and it was quite equal to the occasion. You
see, when I was lying prostrate with in-
luenza I did not waste much time before
,etting Clements Tonic, and thus that
readful complaint was held in check. My
•ruciating head pains were very shortly
lieved, and the agonising manner in which
v eyes were affected was greatly minimised,
•i wonderful relief I then felt through
agency of Clements Tonic helped me
,ig considerably, and as my strength w'as
dually improving under the same
;edy, so was there more vital power in
system to fight against my adversities.”
‘You mean,” said the reporter, “that
ur disease made no further headway.”
“ Exactly,” was the enthusiastic reply.
“It was like a pitched battle between two
gladiators, and there is no doubt that
Clements Tonic won easily, as it prevented
the cold from getting a further hold upon
my chest, and the heaviness and difficulty
in breathing were entirely removed. I
used to think that I had lost control of my
nerves completely, because they trembled
so whenever anything happened to excite
me, and, besides, I got-irritable at the least
thing. If I chanced to hear anybody
whistling or singing I felt annoyed, for it
seemed that everybody could be
happy but myself, and that is a very
melancholy frame of mind to be in, believe
me. But the Clements Tonic I was taking
quickly held the upper hand -over these
troubles, for my nervous system was re-
stored to order, and the general sense of
ease and comfort which I was gaining had
the effect of making my mind more peaceful
and contented. The awful complication of
complaints from which I had suffered had
made such a wreck of me that I could not
get quite strong for some time, as, in the
meantime, I felt languid and drowsy all
day, and with my limbs for ever aching ;
but it was a grand thing that Clements
Tonic had gone so far as to make me well
enough to go back to my woik, although for
a while I felt very exhausted when I came
home at nights and was always glad when
Sundays came round.”
“ Were you resting better then than
before ? ”
“ Oh, yes. I found that Clements Tonic
was a fine medicine for making me sleep,
and I was pleased to feci refreshed and
active when I woke up because I had pre-
viously been put to such distress on getting
out of bed that 1 had to straighten myself
gradually on account of tli* pains in my
back, which at last yielded to the curative
properties of Clements Tonic, like the rest
of the miseries which I had suffered from.
After a certain period my shattered con-
stitution was properly welded together
again, and whenever I have been asked how
it was done my friends have always rec i ved
the same reply- through using Clements
Tonic, and so long as I* live it will be a
pleasure for me to advise all sufferers to
take the same medicine for curing tin ir
complaints. Food had to be very tempt-
ing, and even then I could not always touch it
befor e taking to Clements Tonic, but after-
wards I felt so hungry that I could take a fair
quam-ity of any kind of food, and thoroughly
enjoy it. Moreover, my digestive organs
were so benefi ed by the use of Clements
Tonic, that the assimilation of my food
followed as a matter of course, and
I suppose that is one of the princi-
pal reasons why flatulence, headaches,
body pains, giddiness, and other physical
defects do not trouble me now.”
“ Have you any objection to this state-
ment being published ? ”
r ‘ Not the slightest. You can publish
these words of gratitude to Clements
Tonic in any way you may prefer.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I Jambs Wingfield, of 14 Garden Avenue.
Glebe, S dney, in the State of New south
Wales, Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly
and sincerely decia'e that I_ have carefu ly
read the annexed document, consisting of five f lies
and consecutively numbered from one to five,
and that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness ani cure by Clements Ton c;
and a so contains my full permission to publish m any
wry my statements-which I give voluntarily,
without receiving any payment; and 1 make
this solemn declarator) conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provrs.ons of
the Oaths Act. 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney, this fifteenth
day of March, one thousand nine hundred and two,
before me,
THOS. JNO. DUNN T , J.P.
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
BY
“Steele Rudd.”
THE PANAMA HAT GRAZE.
u a t House). Queen-street, Briaioane, \vho,
hlfing just returned from the centres of manufacture
for these scarce lines, can supply either Elding
shape at 18/6, 22/6, 25/-, 80/-, 85/- to 45/. (CMhwJh
order), securely packed and carriage paid to
Southern States values simply not in it. A trial ora
will convince you.
JJOTICE TO MEIiBOURXS VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Hilda Railway Station and Gable Trama
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSI\ E f A.RU t for
Boarders, 9s. per Bay, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
Novel aud Interesting.
Acetylene Gas Buttonhole Lamps
Nickel-plated. Each charge gives power-
ful light for one hour. Is 6d each,
postage 2d extra. Cheapest House for
Calcium Carbide. for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS*,
236 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
and 422 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
WABR&H
Business
Expansion
Systems*
Letter
Filing
Devices*
Card Index Systems*
For all
Businesses.
We Systematise your Office Free of Charge.
Write us for Illustrated Catalogue.
WOOLLEY, BERGIN & CO.,
269 George St., Sydney.
Sole Agents, Australia.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers througrhout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
er* BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. “W
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
the most nutritious.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
DON’T MISS THIS
OPPORTUNITY, if you are suffering with WEAKENING,
NERVOUS, and DEBILITATING Diseases. Our CON-
CENTRATED BOTANIC REMEDIES will CURE YOU.
So CONFIDENT are we of this that we will send to any
sufferer a TRIAL COURSE (Free of Charge) and abide
by the RESULT. Send HOW and your ultimate CURE
is CERTAIN. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
DRUNK
ENNESS
.CURED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
USTSee my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free.
W. LANGSTON, MR.CS. Eng.
68 Russell St., Melbourne.
Rescued
From Drink
by a new disciverv, odorless and tasteless, which any lady
can give in tea, coffee or food It does its work so silently
and surely that while the devoted wife, sister or daughter
looks on, the drunkard is reclaimed, even against His will
md without his knowledge or co-operation. Send name
and address to THE EUCRASY CO., 62 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W., and they will send you booklet and
particulars free.
RUPTURE
CURED
without
Throw away
your Truai.
operation or pain,
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write‘to-day for illustrated
.Treatise No. io. Address:
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., ENG.,
Cor Russell & Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
LARGEST SALE OP ANY DENTIFRICE.
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC
Tooth Powder.
A unique and efficacious preparation for
cleansing the teeth and strengthening the gums.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
‘tfORRISS
IMPERIAL
3 CURES
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head aches <fc all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTER’S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVENE
“As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I have
used it successfully for years.”—Prof. W. Wilson, M.D.
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDEIL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, &c
Of all Stores.
Hidden Ms of
Diseaseßevealcd
This “GRAND
BOOK” which is
sent Absolutely
FREE.
“Words of Wisdom,***
wonderful book written
for tlie sole purpose of re-
vealing to sufferers the
wonderful system of Hom-
oeopathic treatment which
has cured so many cases
that were thought to be
hopeless and incuiable.
The book is written in a
plain and concise manner,
telling you exactly how
and where you can regain
perfect health. In fact, lfc
gives you the key to the
grandest knowledge known
It reveals wonderful se-
crets and makes the Imp- -sibilities of yesterday realitiesi to-
day. No matter what y, ~• disease or how many have termed
it hopeless or incurable, '..aw H indeed find it A S AGIS
OF HOPII to you, for if you follow its dictates, you will, aa
thousands of others have, he entirely cured of your allnmuts.
Remember this hook costs you absolutely nothing and you will
prize it highly. Simply sit down, write your name and address,
send it to the
IRVING HOMOEOPATHIC COY.,
c/r Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney, N.S.W.
also stating your ailments, and they will send their opinion and
advice as well as this grand book without cost.
30 Days’ Trial
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
AEELIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA." Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt, by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Stiucet, SYDNEY.
ppor FINSEMS
ALL CHEMISTS
Anaemia,
Poverty of Blood
and Weakness
from Whatever Cause.
TABLETS
AT 3/6 PER BOX


At Poverty Point.
Harry Rickards’# application for an injunction to
restrain Barney Fagan and wife, Henrietta Byron, from
appearing in the panto, at Her Majesty’s, Melb., disposes
finally of the rumor that there is any sort of business
partnership or arrangement between Rickards and
Williamson, or Musgrove. W. and M. are partners for
the present as regards the Melbourne panto., so the
Rickards action is directed against both of them.
The case of Rickards v. Barney and Mrs. Fagan (other-
wise Fagan and Byron) is an interesting lesson in the
ways of the theatrical world. Rickards engaged Fagan
and Byron for a period of six months, at a salary of £65 a
week, with the ordinary business proviso that they were
not to enter into any eng igement with a rival Austral-
asian manager within six months of the termination of
the Rickards’ contract. Having served their term
with Rickards, who offered them a re - engagement
which they didn’t accept, Fagan and Byr'. i sold
their services to Williamson and Musgrove in defiance
of the proviso aforesaid. Rickards, last week, ob-
tained an injunction to restrain F. and B. from
fulfilling their new engagement, but he practically con-
sented to cancel the restraining clause in their contract
if they pay £250 compensation. On behalf of the Fagans,
who had no legal leg to stand upon, it was pleaded that,
although they received £1570 salary from Rickards for the
six months previous to Oct. 18 of this year, they are now
in an unfinancial condition and must either work for
Williamson and Musgrove or “sit here and starve.”
Actors and their money arc soon parted, seemingly.
“T.D.” : By the sudden lunatic outbreak of Cornelius
Osmond whilst having a singing lesson with a Melbourne
teacher, that city loses a voice which was bound to have
been heard of as soon as Kirby and one or two others had
taken their share of public esteem. The voice was much
the same in quality, and a l rifle more robust and reliable
on the higher notes than Kirby’s. Also, Osmond was a
worker, and went into his music thoroughly.
Alice Crawford, the bonnie actress from Bendigo,
writes during her first week in London “ Mrs. Maes-
more Morris had a small part in * Chance, the Idol.’ She
looked lovely, which was practically all that was required
of her. Titheradge played the father of the heroine—a
small part, unsuited to him. But Titheradge is always
artistic. Went to see all the musical comedies. I like
• The Toreador ’ the best; Maie Saqui was amongst the
show girls. Louie Freear, who plays the slavey
in “Chinese Honeymoon’’ is too grotesque and
funny for words. If Nance O’Neil had opened
in something new, instead of courting compari-
son with Bernhardt, Duse, Mrs. Pat. Campbell,
and others, I believe she would have had a successful
season. Everybody thought her clever, though not clever
enough to follow the greatest artists in powerful plays.
. . . It’s hard to get a good engagement over here. The
market is overstocked, and wealthy amateurs are pre-
pared to pay for positions. You would be surprised at
the salaries really clever actors are glad to accept; a
leading lady in a touring co. in England does not get as
good a salary as I got in Australia when I had only been
on the stage a few months, and m.y pay, as you know, has
never soared as high as the dreams of avarice. The Aus-
tralians I have met over here seem to be doing very little.
... I got a Bulletin wherein I was told I was 24. Tell
my friend the libeller that a woman never forgives a
cruelty of that sort. I am 22. If Tub Bulletin doesn’t
believe me, it can look up the Bendigo register.” •
Every day for the last eight or ten weeks Melb. Bijou
has been advertised “To let, on long lease or short
seasons.” The lessee, J. A. Wilson, who has paid for the
insertions of this Jin. announcement immediately under-
neath the business advt. of Hawtrey, his tenant, seems
to harbor the delusion that theatrical managers wander
around casually with the company looking for suitable
premises to act in.
Two enterprising Melbourne girls—Miss Maud Gran-
tham and Lucy Barton—duly brought off a concert
at Hobart the other night, and were asked to give
another, so they might do worse than pitch their tent
and their talent in Tassy for a while, before going West.
Several of the Marshall Hall Conservatorium damsels
have migrated to Germany, but Miss Grantham and
Premier Barton’s niece are the first of the Prof.’s ex-
pupils to launch their own little show upon Australian
waters, so to speak.
About some people known to Australians who are now
in America :—Oscar Asche has made a great hit as
Maldonada in “Iris” at N.Y. Criterion. His very
brutality in the part wins its way into the feminine heart
and the box-office is ever in a state of feminine siege’
Herbert Ross (recently identified with the “ Message from
Mars” in Australia) is likewise in the cast; also Hilda
Spong as the friend of the wilful Iris. She shortly joins
William Faversham, another of Frohman’s stars, in “ Im-
prudence,” a new play by H. V. Esmond, author of “ One
Summer’s Day.” William Elton has been playing in
serious drama again. He supported Brandon Tvnan
m “Robert Emmett,” but fell so seriously ill 'that
he had to retire to hospital for an operation. He
is now seeking recovery among the Catskill Mountains
Maud Hobson brightens up the tedium of “ The Night of
the Party” which Weedon Grossmith, author, actor and
manager, is presenting to New Yorkers at the Princess
Theatre. Maud Hobson’s face, figure and gowns are all
in the key of G.—which is a Yankee’s most eloquent
remark of appreciation. The beauteous lady (who, by the
way, is Toorakian by birth),is seriously threatening matri-
mony and retirement to domestic solitude in S’Africa.
Harry R. Roberts, recently married to Maggie Moore is
doing distinctive work in Belaseo’s “Du Barry.” He’ is
under a three years' contract to David Belasco. Kyrle
Bellew has been bobbing on the outskirts of New York in
Stanley Weyman’s “ Gentleman of France." He threatens
a Shakespearian revival shortly.
J. C. Williamson is understood to have in view a
comedy co. for playing two or three of Brough’s pieces.
“The Second in Command ’’is mentioned.
“Kookoo”: That injury to Adelaide Porter’s hand
(mentioned B. 5/10/’O2) was the result of a playful blow
from her fellow-student, the now famous Clara Butt.
Clara’s play, like her person and voioe, is evidently of the
massive order. London specialists pronounced the injury
irremediable, but, some years after the sufferer’s return
to S.A., Prof. Watson, of Adelaide University, diagnosed
a “ tangle” of tendons in the wrist or forearm, and an
operation restored the use of the fingers. Miss P. had
meanwhile learnt to play pieces written for the left hand
and kept up the accomplishment. She married, a few
years ago, a popular Adelaide lawyer, Jack Fox, who died
only a few days before your par. appeared.
A. P. Sykes, of Melbourne, is offering to an enlightened
world a new lot of “ red-label ” gramophone records at
the grand operatic price of ten shillings each. Madame
Suzanne Adams and other costly singers have contributed
to the red-labet series, hence the extra charge for these
records. Some of them are wonderful reproductions of
fine voices, and in every case the first-class art of
the vocalist is distinctly marked. It is still an
open question as to whether the wax record used
for the “phonograph” gives a keener reproduction
than the vulcanite gramophone record, which is much more
durable ; but, anyhow, the fact remains that the greatest
singers in the world are now prepared to warble into the
" Gram.” receiver for a thumping big fee. Two or three
years ago one sort of voice was much the same sort as
another for gramophonic purposes, but under the im-
proved system of registering it is good business for the
manufacturers to pay star singers 50 guineas a time, and
more, for one song.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N. S. Wales: Sayers,
Allport and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.’
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton.
England.*
Smart women know how men are bright-
ened and social functions made to sparkle by a
discreet allowance of alcoholic stimulant. And
when picnics and other holiday festivities are
being formulated, the reigning feminine influences
will not be likely to overlook D.C.L. whisky, that
valuable and harmless aid to vivacity. Good
humor flows from it like warmth from the sun,
and wisdom is supreme where the favorfte vivifier
is D.C.L., the Whisky of the Wise.*
The new parlor game, “ Wranji ” (table-cricket)
bids fair to oust “Ping-Pong” from pride of place.
* Wranji ” is fairly enough described as “ fascinating and
scientific,” requires no more complicated apparatus than
dees Ping-Pong, and does not, like that game, involve an
injanoue stram on the eyes. Sole agents for Australia,
tn* Mir rSimmone Tobacco Exchange, corner of Geore , e-&t
and fia/market, Sydney.* *
E DWARDS
HARLENE
FOR
THE
A
THE GREAT
HAIR PRODUCER
and RESTORER.
The Very Finest Dressing 1 , Specially
Prepared and Delicately Perfumed
for the Toilet.
“HARLENE”
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents Its Failing’
Off or Turning Grey.
UNEQUALLED FOR PROMOTING THE GROWTH OF
THE BEARD AND MOUSTACHE.
THE RENOWNED
REMEDY FOR DALDNESS.
For Preaonrlng, Strengthening, and Rendering the Hair Beautifully Soft i for Removing Scurf, Dandruff, Ac. alio for
RESTORING GREY HAIR TO ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
".HARLENE ” PRESERVES, STRENGTHENS, AND INVIGORATES CHILDREN’S HAIR.
Full description and directions/or use in 20 languages supplied with every bottle.
1/., 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size; 4-/6 per Bottle from Druggists &c., all over the World.
“HARLENE” Co., High Holborn, LONDON, ENGLAND.
iM&S
fiitfffifih
ess
A Gbnt.’s Xmas Box. —The above illustration is one ol
the latest and most acceptable gent.’s presents, contain-
ing 2 first-class Hollow Ground Razors, pair Nail Scissors i
Tweezers, and Knife for cutting corns. This compact
roll is one of Mr. A. Saunders’ own designs. At present
time this high-class article should command a ready sale I
at 20s. A similar roll containing 1 Razor, Tweezers, Nail
Scissors, and Corn Knife is on sale for 15s. Either line
will be sent to any part of Australia, post and duty free
on application to A. Saunders, 809-817 George-st., Sydney*
EVERY WOMAN
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new FEMALE SYRINGE
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. JUndoraed by Physicians.
MARVEL CO., Times Building, N. Y.
Sole Australasian Agents—
The Marvel Co. of Australia.
(Box 623 G.P.0.) CAfIDEN BUILDINGS,
418 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The VOLCANIC
/ERATING
MACHINE
os
£J3i
W. JAMES, Proprietor,
A Great
Saving
HOTELKEEPERS.
CAFE PROPRIETORS. ETC
..TO..
DERATED WATERS of the Highest Quality
produced with the utmost rapidity
WITHOUT SKILLED LABOR.
Absolutely the best and simplest aaa
Machine in the market. ®»“Pricb
TUBES CONTAIN 57Ibs. GAS.
CAPACITY OP CYLINDERS lOoals. WATER
VALVE ACTS AUTOMATICALLY.
Smaller Machines on same Prinoiple f £2O.
Write for Descriptive Pamphlets with Testimonials fror
people who have used the Machine for pears.
Office : 101 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
Depot: 130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
am jam ■■ bb j 2H«|3« tO lOOHipi
KING MARIIMIE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall. " '' '
Noiseless Underwater . .
Exhaust
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J. F.
Telephone 2671.
WITH THE KING ENGINE —ONE LEVER CONTROLS THE WHOLE.
c3OBR M O T T & C O TVE r» A. JXT "XT,
3O PITT STREET, SYDKTB'Y'.
The “ Enterprise ”
Rubber Massage Roller
Makes, Keeps
and Restores
Beauty in Na-
ture’s own way.
The cap-shaped teeth have a
suction effect on the skin that
smooths out wrinkles, rounds out
the beauty muscles, aad gives per-
fect circulation of the blood.
It is so constructed that, it treats
every portion of the face and neck
perfectly, even to the “crow’s
feet ” in the corners of the eyes.
Price of Roller -- - - /% /f*
(with FREE Sample
Jar o c “SKIN -- Post
FOOD”) Free ‘
m
Bex 133, 0.P.0.
THE ENTERPRISE CO.,
*
ME LB.
When ordering please mention this
paper.
THE OWL
CUT-
RATE
DRUG CO.,
Manufacturing and
Dispensing Chemists*
Especial attention is devoted to the treatment of lleai*t, Kidney, and Liver Troubles. Testimonials from all
parts of Australia.
SOLE AGENTS FOR—
Dr* Clarkson's Re-Invigorator* nerve, brain, muscle, and
cannot cure. PRICE, 7s. 6d. PER BOTTLE, 3 BOTTLES £l. Polt fny°Part oTluTtrlli^
Electric Belts* act t likf TmARf 1 REFRESH THE STRONG, REVMVE THE DEPRESSED
~ o u A CHARM. Regular Price, One Guinea. Cunt Price, 10s Post Free’
Every Person should wear one of these Belts, * ± * ree -
Pyramid Pile Cure. m ® rits as a curative agent will then be recognised.
• Price, 3s. ad. per box, or 3 for 10s.; postage 6d. extra.
FITS, EPILEP. A Sure Cure for Epilepsy in all its forms. . Write for particulars.
Note the
Address
The Owl Cut=Rate [Drug
Co.,
227 ELIZABETH STREET,
* Opposite Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
C. P. FIN OH AM, Chemist.
Amusements.
I VCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
m Lessee Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Holt
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY) LAST NIGHT
r BLAND HOLT’S Superior Dramatic Achievement,
THE WHITE HEATHER.
. RIDAY EVENING, DEO, 26, First Production in the
ommonwealth of the Up-to-date Australian Melodrama,
THE BREAKING OP THE DROUGHT.
i OPULAR PRICES—3s,, 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvv's
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager. ’
ARITERION THEATRE, SYDkTey!
SOLE LESSEE .. .. Mr. JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
Manager Mr. Frank Weathersby.
OXING NIGHT, DECEMBER 26, at 7.46 Sharp,
the Operatic Dramatic Spectacular Pantomime,
JIKTDBRELL a.
- I 3\r D B 3Ft ELL A,
The Crystal Slipper
and the Little Girl who put her foot in it.
/OHN F. SHERIDAN as Baron Bounder.
10 COMEDIANS. 10
Good old-fashioned
CLOWN, PANTALOON, and HARLEQUINADE.
SPECIAL ENGAGEMENTS,
l ATINEES Every WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY, 2 p.m.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d. and Is. Box Plan Nicholson’s,
"s. will be charged for booking and early doors.
THEATRE ROYAL, SY D N e Y.
■ Lessee .. .. .. Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
! r nder the Sole Direction of MR. GEORGE MUSGROVE.
Manager, Mr. T. P. Hudson,
i. Great & Glorious Reception of GEORGE MUSGROVE’S
NEW OPERA CO.
GREAT XMAS ATTRACTION, BOXING NIGHT,
‘■'or the First Time in Sydney, the Enormous v Successful,
• Up-to-date, Romantic Comic 0) eri,
/MARIANA, or the 30 THIEVES.
Prices as Usual. Plan at Nicholson’s.
OALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
" Lessees .. .. .. Messrs. Lee and Rial.
Under the Direction of MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Cvery Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON’S
tOYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
DOROTHY.
,sox Plan at Nicholson’s. ttW PRICES AS USUAL.
HALL, YORK STREET.
SEASON OPENS
QENTENARY
(MAS NIGHT
XMAS NIGHT
XMAS NIGHT
XMAS NIGHT
GRAND XMAS FESTIVAL
>iy those World-Wide Renowned Musicians,
M’ADOO’S FISK
JUBILEE SIN6ERS.
Re-appearance of
MR. M. H. HODGES, the Eminent Baritone.
POPULAR PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
IVAN JAMES, Advance Mafiager.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickaiuis.
/te-appearance for positively THREE Nights Only of the
THE FLORENZ CO.
JR. GEORGE Sculler of the World,
in conjunction with
JR. HARRY PEARCE, Champion Sculler of Australia.
THE HARVEY BOYS.
MISS F. SPRY, MR. B. S. MONTI, JENNIE OPIE,
MALVENA MOORE. EILEEN BOYD, CLARENCE
SISTERS, ELSIE M‘LACHLAN, ERNEST SULLIVAN,
and all our Great Tivoli 00.
ICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOU3E,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
Every evening, at s p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.m.
WALLACE BROWNLOW.
THE MONTROSE TROUPE.
a. G. SPRY. FRED. POPLAR. KITTY WAGER.
LES WARTON. WELBY COOKE.
Prices—2s. 6d., 25., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
R 1
GRAND XMAS ATTRACTION.
MISS NELLIE STEWART in two New London Sensa-
tions in one evening. The Finest Comedy of the London
Season, A COUNTRY MOUSE, and THE PANTOMIME
REHEARSAL, a Musical Absurdity.
USUAL PRICES. Box Plan at Allan’s.
-THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Lessee Mr. Bland Holt.
, Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hendy. Treas., Julius Grant.
WILLIAM ANDERSON'S Famous Dramatic Organisation
GRAND XMAS PRODUCTION,
THE POWER AND THE GLORY.
A STUPENDOUS ATTRACTION.
Re-appearance of MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan's.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson’.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
GRAND XMAS PANTOMIME COMBINATION in
DICK WHITTINGTON AND HIS CAL
Gorgeous Scenery, Costumes and Appointments
and Startling Novelties.
Entrancing Music rendered by an Opera Chorus and an
Opera Orchestra.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan's.
FITZGERALD BROS.’
HUGE CIRCUS & MENAGERIE,
The Central Amusement Institution of Australasia.
JUST ACROSS PRINCE’S BRIDGE, ST. KILOA RD., MELB.
Crowded Nightly in Every Portion of the Vast
Amphitheatre.
. MAGNIFICENT NEW PROGRAMME ...
The Sensational Equestrian Drama—
“ DICK TURPIN’S RIDE TO YORK.’
“ BARTON,” the great Australian Wild Horse Buck jump
Rider ; “ AJAX,” by far the most flexible Human Being
on Earth ; and more exciting and startling acts than evei
before seen in Melbourne.
PRICES—4s., 35., 25., and One Shilling. Children hal
price to all parts (except the pit).
FRANK JONES, Representative.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage
And by
Special Appointment
Mrs* William Green and Miss Green
Professors of Ballroom Dancing, Deportment, Cracsfu
Carriages, Etiquette and Caliathenio Exercises. ,
The Latest Society Skirt Dances. Classes arranged tor m
private residences. Colleges and Convents attended.
Classes in all suburbs. Prospectus—
-11 Ellerulie,” 100 NleholNrMrt<i PMiftyi


MEN!! Do Not Despair!
n
J
jM,
m-
'S
SS!
11
n
Vi
-TV'
@S-
*> <
MeSSENJEH OF CHEER*
From the original illustrations of the Dr. Sanden’s Electric Belt Co., New lork.
There are many thousands oe yoxj in
Australia to-day, far from medical aid, who think
your case is hopeless and that the die is cast for
you to die early.
Don’t think anything of the sort
Eor we can by our wonderful system of HOME
TREATMENT treat and cure you in your own homes.
WE MAY NEVER SEE YOU, but if you follow out
our instructions and adopt our system
We will soon make you well.
If your trouble is a serious BLOOD DISEASE, a
chronic NERVE AEEECTION, PARALYSIS,
SCIATICA, LOSS OE VITAL POWER, WEAK-
NESS, INSOMNIA, INDIGESTION or DYSPEPSIA
We will Guarantee to Cure you
in. a few short weeks. Remember; we stand behind A
GUARANTEE BOND OE £lOOO for the faithful per-
formance of all medical contracts undertaken. We
have, since we commenced practice a quarter of a
century ago,
Cured many Thousands of Men
who gladly have given us voluntary testimonies in
proof. WE CAN C URE YOU, SURELY, QUICKLY
AND PERMANENTLY. Write for special brochure
of testimonies from eminent patients mailed free.
These will convince you, and perhaps you may find A
SIMILAR CASE TO YOUR OWN.
OUR FEES are: ADVICE and MEDICINE, ONE POUND ONLY.
WE
GUARANTEE
TO
CURE YOU
QUICKLY,
PERMANENCY.
MEN i You never know your fate. This is an old but true saying. While alive you want to
feel STRONG, VIGOROUS, FULL OF THE FIRE OF YOUTH, glad with the GLAD
HAPPINESS OF HEALTH AND POWER. We can make you such men. We can give you
a strength that your fellow-men will envy.
We offer you a Wonderful Treatment
If you are WEAK IN YOUR VITAL NERVE CENTRES, run down, PALSIED when
vou should be POWERFUL, you should wear our Electric “ INVIGORATOR ” for a few nights
only. Its remedial electric current will SATURATE YOUR VIIAL CENTRES with a
soothing powerful current. YOU WILL AWAKE BRIGHT AND REFRESHED. You will
have NO MORE PAIN, no more WEAKNESS; you cannot be weak when you wear this
Electric Belt. It is guaranteed bv two leading Sydney electricians. It is modelled after those
uflscl 'fey iLiarapean scientists. It is the finest cure for Weakness in IVlen or Women medical science
ba* ever discovered or can ever know.
OUR
GUARANTEE
TO CURE
IS A
£lOOO
BOND
OUR “ INVIQORATORS ” ARE SOLD THUS.
Solid Cold (2oz. ISct. Cold), £10; Solid Silver, £3 ; Electro-Plate, £1 10s; Copper-Plate, £l.
We speciallv recommend our £1 Electric “ BELT." It is superior to any sold in Australia. It has true Vulcanite
P ‘ " Insulation without which no “ Belt ” can give a continuous current.
ANY BELT WITHOUT THIS PROCESS IS USELESS IN MEDICAL PRACTICE.
OUR MEDICAL
INSTITUTE.
Here is a photo, of our Insti-
tute, where we have practised
for a quarter-of-a-century, and
where we hold the largest
medical practice in Australia.
Over £lOO,OOO has been spent in making it the most Scientific Institution in
the Southern Medical World. It is presided over by a staff of SPECIAL-
ISTS in BLOOD AND NERVE DISEASES whose skill is unquestionable.
There is no known disease which they have not exhaustively studied. They
all have graduated from reputable colleges in England and America ; and its
Physician-in-Chief is the only registered practitioner advertising Electric
Belts in Australia, and who is skilled in the treatment of disease by the com-
bined action of Electricity and Medicine.
registration of the Chief of the Medical Staff*
The Physician-in-Chief of the Medical Staff of the INSTITUTE, DR-
RICHARD WALLACE, is registered by the MEDICAL BOARDS OF
NEW SOUTH WALES, VICTORIA, SOUTH AUSTRALIA, ENG-
LAND, and AMERICA. He is a Specialist of unquestionable ability.
SIR DOMTNIC CORRIGAN, BART, Physician to the Queen, says of
him ; “ I entertain a high opinion of Dr. Wallace in regard to his profes-
sional qualifications.”
NOTE.-When purchasing an Electric “Belt” see that your PHYSICIAN is
registered by the Austra ian and English Medical Boards. You can easily
do this by referring to the N S W. list of Medical Practitioners.
YOU SHOULD READ THIS HANDSOME BOOK.
IVf"OST USEFUL WORKS ARE OUR MEDICAL VOLUMES. THEY ARE
TYL HIGHLY USEFUL to all people resident in the outlying portions of Aus-
tralia. “ CLINICAL EXPERIENCES ” contains 500 pages of medical literature,
150 full-page medical plates and anatomical views.
THERE IS NO FURTHER CHARGE THAN ONE SHILLING,
in stamps, post free. It is a literary souvenir from the INSTITUTE and its
SPECIALISTS. No Home Library is complete without it. These books are not
mere pamphlets given away for advertising purposes, but fine, useful volumes ;
genuine medical advisers.
All lovers of first-class literature desire nothing better than to possess a handsome,
instructive book.
“CLINICAL EX-
PERIENCES” con-
tains 30 CHAPTERS
ON DISEASES,
BURNS, SCALDS,
FEVERS, ABSCESS,
SUNSTROKE,
PLAGUE, APO-
PLEXY, SNAKE-
BITE, WOUNDS,
FRACTURES,
LOVE AND MAR-
RIAGE, FEVERS,
etc. It also contains
a vocabulary of 1000
Medical Terms, and a
list of 50 valuable pres-
criptions for household
use. It makes a
splendid presentation
volume for the New
Year. It is the sick
man or woman’s Best
Friend.
209
uHI
tOVE^
7'
7/
m
\m
&
m
mm
FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL and
SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S.,
E., L.M., Physician-in-Chief - .
Medicines packed Free from Observation and sent to all parts of Australia.
Letters treated with Professional Secrecy and promptly attended to.


JR big Jewellery Store was never so superior, never so splendid.
| | | Every beautiful thing from England, America and the Continent is
UU here, and favourably priced for you. So quickly come and go the new
things that we could not enumerate them, but come in and see for
yourself what we have. We never press anyone to buy. We will gladly
show you the latest even If you come only out of curiosity. Our New
Catalogue is free to all.
No. E44s9—The “Cupid ” Card Case,
Solid Silver, Lady’s Size, £2 10a,
Silver-Plated on Nickel Silver
Base, Tankard, i-pt., 12s; 1 pt.,
15s.
No. F6127—A1 Quality Silver-Plated
Toast Rack, £1 15s.
Ufl
No. F9ss4—Heavy 9ct Gold Twist Bracelet, £2 10s.
No. E 3 082 —fct Gold Bracelet, set Pearls and Sapphire
Doublets, £2 2s.
No. F9ss7—Oct Gold and Real Pearl
Bracelet, £2.
No. F 9569 —9ct Gold and Real Pearl
Bracelet, £1 7s. 6d.
9efc Gold & Tortoiseshell
Hairpin or Ornament,
£1 7s 6d.
No. F2XsB—Solid Silver Prize Bowl,
£8 10s.—8Jin. x s£in.
No. F9s72—Strong- 9ct Gold Twist Tube
Brooch, £l los.
No. F247B—Silver Plated Butter Knif
Spoon, in a Case, 14s. 6d.
and Jam
No. F55B—Al Quality
Silver Plated Butter Dish,
£1 12s. 6d.
No. F999l—Silver Plated Satin Lined
Jewel Case, £ 1 ss.
No. F64B3—Solid Silver
Pepper Pot, 18s. 6d.
No. E 7849— Silver- Plated
Egg Boiler, £1 7a, 6d.
No. Fl342—Cut Glass and
Silver Plated Claret Jutf,
£1 Is.
No IC3—lBct Gold
Diamond and Ruby Ring,
£3 10s.
No. F47lo—Silver Plated Knife, Fork and Spoon,
in a Case, 14s. 6d.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG, X
WONDERFUL VALUE—A packet of Seven different
articles, comprising Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket,
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin and
Card Tricks), the Wizard Fish (gives the definition of your
character, very superior for parlor entertainments), the
Mafeking Grub (or Nerve Strengthener), the Vest Pocket
Tubular Microscope (very useful for examining small
objeets), the Cinematograph (or book of moving pic-
tures), and, last of all, the great American Puzzle—
“ CAN U DO IT.” Instructions enclosed.
This splendid packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia (Free) on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
X
MEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
Box 8, P. 0., Haymarket. 710 George-st., Sydney.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10hS. ■^CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Catered for
on Most
Banquets and
Private Balls
Reasonable
Terms.
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCINQ FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
FOR COUNTRY VISITORS.
- T .hg Sydney Coffee
—
Palace Hotel,
LOWER DOMAIN
(Under New
Management)
is the Healthiest and Cleanest
Hotel in Sydney.
TERMS—From 6s. per day, and from 255.
per week.
'l’ll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarme
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 108. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
TtoRmUL
CRAIG & AITKEN, N.s •W. Barber’s Supply
House. 680-682 CEOBCE STREET, SYDNEY,
CHRISTMAS SUITS TO ORDER.
A S a matter of comparison, before ordering CHRISTMAS
■n- SHOTS, write to . . .
CHARLES GILBERT, the Leading Tailor,
Queen Street, Brisbane . . .
for Patterns of NEWEST SUITINGS and SELF-MEA-
SUREMENT FORMS, and compare the value of his 50s
SUIT TO MEASURE (carriage paid to any-address) with
what.you can get in either SYDNEY or- MELBOURNE •
and if you cannot see the advantages he offers, you must
be blind in one eye and deaf in the other. t
The
High-Class Smoking Mixture
t
HAS NO EQUAL IN QUALITY.
>• MEDIUM. FTTT.?.,
In i-lb. AIR-TIGHT TINS.
Dr. J. A. AUSTIN writes: " After a long and fruitless quest for an ideal smoking mixture, I have at
last alighted on the famous ‘ ARDATH,’ which is perfectly free from the crudeness and asperities of inferior
tobacco so injurious to the heart and nerves, and renders smoking a harmless luxury.”
S. HOFFNUNG & CO. Ltd., Wholesale Tobacconists,
Wholesale Agents for Australia. SVriNFV and BRISBANE
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO., 44 Worship Street, London, England.
AMERICAN
u
HANN”
HAMMOCKS
The Acme of Comfort.
Instantly convertible from Sitting to Reclining Position.
Holds its full width at all times. Has adjustable arms
and padded head-rest. A Swinging Arm-Chair, conform-
ing to the body, and rests one all over. Made of Fancy
Striped Duck, strong enough for heavy people. Size,
7ft. x 31in. The “ Hann ” Hammock packs small enough
to be sent by.parcels post; we, therefore, pay carriage to
any State in the Commonwealth and New Zealand.
PRICE—No. 1 (without fringe) 17/8
No. 40 (with handsome fringe) .. .. 21/-
No. 50 (with valance and fringe .. 25/-
Orders should be addressed—
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
229-231 ColHns-St., Hel bourne.
TWO POINTS OF MUCH IMPORTANCE.
JLllenburgs Fbo
The great success attending the use of the “Allenburys” Milk Foods is in a great measure-
due to the two following important facts:—
(i) Their similarity in composition to human milk ; the constituents being in (2) The readiness with which they can oe digested and assimilated by
the same relative proportions. _ _ the infant,both foods being as easy of assimilat ii as maternal milk.
Mixed with water according to the directions a humanized milk is provided. and much more so than ordinary modified or diluted cow's milk.
The “ Allenburys ” Foods are especially valuable in hot climates. They are m the
form of powder and keep perfectly.
Pamphlet on “INFANT FEEDING ” (48 pages) free,
from 495, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Allen & Hanburys, Ltd., fPlougd (Bourt, Jsombard St, Isondon.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to three months.
MILK FOOD No. 2. r
From three to six months.
MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From six months and upwards.
CAPILLA
HAIR
TONIC
The Wonder of the Age
ALL CHEMISTS
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA
_ S EXPECTORANT
ORES THE WORSTCOUGHS.


In Hoy a Gully.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
vV henever the monotony of the manage at Wir-
rowah became no longer bearable, Donald King
would take his horse and ride over to the Hoya
Gully—a fern-clad rift cut deep in the bosom of
rolling plains—which made a natural divide
between the Wirrowah run and Beattie’s selec-
tion. He sought it, in the first instance, because
the artistic side of his nature delighted in sharp
contrasts, and to compare the Hoya Gully with
Wirrowah Homestead was an object lesson in
opposites. The gully was not a mile away from
the homestead—a collection of aggressively new
and disreputably old buildings set in an enclosure
called by courtesy a garden. King had to m ike
a bee-line westward over the coarsely-grassed,
treeless plains to reach it, and, once there, he could
forget the utter ugliness of the place in
which he had taken up his abode for
the last two months—of the house, which
was never free from the shouts and loud
laughter of Jack Broughton’s hoyden sister, as
she raced up and down the verandahs with her
troop of dogs, a veritable imp of darkness with
attendant devils, in King’s estimation; of the
dreadful garden, with its heaps of shavings and
rotting slabs of bark and growth of nettle weeds,
which was divided from the endless yellow plain
by a wire fence only.
Those plains, with their weird mirages and
shadeless distances, were depressing enough in
themselves ; but there was shade and to spare in
the Hoya Gully—that sweet caprice of Nature—
for it was rock-lined in a land where one might
travel leagues and never see so much as a pebble.
There were shrubs bearing brilliant brown and
yellow blossoms, and billows on billows of pale-
green maidenhair fringing the cold spring pools
at the bottom, and from the trees which were
rooted in the rich soil between the rock ledges
hung trails on trails of the pink waxen flower,
threaded on slender brown strings, from which
the place derived its name.
And it was to gather the hoya that the girl
from Beattie’s selection made her way there one
morning when Donald had taken possession, and
after that he had another reason for seeking the
seclusion of the gully on every possible occasion.
He was basking, lizard-like, on a flat, sun-
flecked rock when the girl first saw him, and
being a good looking young fellow, with an olive
skin and dreamful blue eyes and a figure as lithe
and straigiit as a blood wood tree, small wonder
that Miry Beattie compared him inwardly with
the man Fate had allotted to her—a red-bearded,
pale-eyed teamster, whose figure was built more
for use than for beauty.
And then Donald looked up and saw her and
thought at once howkissablea mouth she had, and
how pretty she was in her brown frock amongst
the yellow flowers, and her evident shyness and
desire to run away bred in him the desire to make
her stay.
He had qufte a fight to break down the barrier
of her reserve ; but it made matters all the more
interesting, and it was quite a long time before
he grew tired of riding every day to Hoya Gully
and seeing the girls’cheeks flush redly as he came.
Even after he was tired of it, he continued to kiss
her from force of habit, and because the affair
made an artistic and pretty interlude in his long
visit to the station of his old school chum, Jack
Broughton.
Mary Beattie was a dull person for all her good
looks, and was quite incapable of making fine
distinctions. She thought Donald was in love
with her because he had made love to her, and so
put an end to the idyll abruptly one day when she
sprung upon him the fact that she intended to give
her teamster fiance the go-by and was quite
prepared and willing to stick to King for the
term of his natural life !
It was a shock certainly, but King, still in the
early twenties, was a man of some experience.
He had a silver tongue, even in those days, and
he set to work to argue the girl out of her foolish-
ness, without raising her anger or making matters
needlessly uncomfortable. He proved to her
that his kisses and attentions had been but the
ordinary advance-guards of friendship, he showed
her how impossible any other sentiment could be
between them, and he scouted the idea of dis-
honorably stealing another man’s promised bride.
Mary was a docile creature, and, after a few
tears, was dumbly acquiescent. Certainly she
asked one question, which Donald took as a proof
of her innate stupidity and answered as toler-
antly as he could, though it necessitated the going
over again of all his arguments. “If you'd no use
for mq, #iy didn’t you let me alone? I was
willin’ tb be let alone at first,” she said. How-
ever, lie kissed her quite affectionately when she
finally departed, and he felt tenderly towards her
for being so sensible ; and his heart glowed with
virtuous satisfaction when he considered how very
much worse his conduct might have been !
He was le iving Wirro wah next day, en route for
tie city again, and would think twice before he spent
another vacation in the baekbloeks, even if it
was in a district which knew his name for two
generations and which was part and parcel of
certain political plans of the future. There wou'd
only be one more evening on the verandah, listen-
ing to Jack’s uninteresting “sheep” talk—only
one more morning's sleep broken by the clatter of
the impish sister’s strong leather boots on the flat
tin roof of his room ! . . . He turned swiftly in
the saddle—for he had just mounted his horse—to
see the cause of the noise behind him. Stones
were falling freely in Hoya Gully, and through
the fringe of tussocky grass above it he saw the
head and shoulders of Broughton’s sister appear-
ing- . i
There was a swirl of short skirts and a flash of
long legs, and before he could collect his thoughts
the creature had covered the distance between
them, and had sprung to the horse’s back, grasp-
ing its rider in sinewy, vyce-like arms, as she bent
her head sideways, so that she could peer into his
face.
“ I saw it all,” she said. “ I heard every word,”
and she grinned delightedly.
“Get off—let go—or I’ll shove you off 1 ” said
King, irately.
“I’lltell Jack if you do, and he’ll set the whole
place against you when you come electioneering
some day,” said Miss Broughton, calmly. “ Tell
me something I want to know,” she added,
insinuatingly, “ and I’ll let go and never breathe
a word to a soul, s’elp me ! ”
“Well,” said King, “what is it?” He knew
the Imp too well not to capitulate.
She wriggled sideways until her thick dark hair
fell over his arm and her gimlet eyes looked
straight into his angry blue ones, and she
repeated Mary Beattie’s question of a few
moments back.
“ Why didn’t you leave ner alone? ” she said.
“I want to knew the real, truly honest reason
Why you kissed her so at first—l’d like to know
aw’fly. You don’t love her, do you ?”
“ No, I dbn’t.”
“ Well, what did you kiss her for first ? ”
■ ‘ Jiecause I wanted to,” he said ; “I hadn’t
any other reason. I just wanted her then ; I
don’t now ; and I don’t want you either, so scoot
—do you hear me, scoot ! ” „ 1 „„„
And, true to her promise, the Imp of Darkness
slid to the ground and “scooted.” She had got
the truth and knew it, and Donald King swore
softly to himself as he watched her ungainly night
over the grass tussocks. , „ , ,
“ Little devil ! ” he muttered, “it s the hrst and
last time you'll ever score off me! ” And a sudden
breeze sweeping the Hoya Gully behind him
brought an echo of far-off exultant laughter, ne
shivered a little, and put his horse at the gallop
until he drew rein in sight of the unsightly huts
at Wirrowah.
11.
Many tilings may happen in ten years, and
Donald King realised that a great many things
had happened when ho saw Wirrowah again.
For one thing, the pepperina trees in the garden
were no longer tiny plants, but made a bower of
green and a brave show of scarlet berries, through
which the verandah of Wirrowah homestead
showed invitingly. It was draped with flowering
creepers also, and the array of squatter chairs
was supplemented by a white wickerwork one,
before which stood a table spread with a dainty
tea-service, presided over by a goddess in
brown grasscloth, who was none other than
the Imp, “knocked into shape,” as Jack
expressed it, by some years at a good
Sydney school. She was a very handsome! girl
indeed, and King wondered how lie could ever
have thought those eyes “gimleting” as they
gazed admiringly at him through a fringe of the
longest black eyelashes he had ever seen. I say
admiringly, because from the very first Miss
Francie Broughton made nodisguiseof her feelings.
King was going to stand for the district at the
coining elections, and was taking a trip round to
see how the land lay, and the girl was a useful
coadjutor when she volunteered to ride over to the
different selectors’ places with him. She was so
fine a specimen of womanhood that he forgot,
after a time, the feelings of mingled amusement
and scorn with which he first regarded her
devotion to himself. He felt distinctly jealous
once when she spent an evening walking up and
down thegarden with along limbed squatter called
S.nith —instead of sitting, metaphorically speaking,
at his feet drinking in his words. He took sbme
trouble to wean her from theaforesaid Smith’s com-
pany, and of course succeeded. There was a seat
under one of the pepper-trees, and the arching
branches screened them from the sight of Jack
and Smith on the verandah, and he was distinctly
flattered when the girl allowed him to kiss her
there —in fact she unequivocally encouraged him
to do so. Then Donald King, who had passed un-
scathed through far more dangerous ambuscades
than this one, fell promptly and very completely
in love, and gloried in the fact. Miss Broughton
had decidedly thrown herself at his head. A
Man is always credited with rejecting the fruit
which falls at his feet—but o.i the whole one may
doubt this, given that the fruit be the best of its
kind on the tree, some men are contented and
sensible enough to appreciate their good fortune.
At any rate Donald King did not cavil at his, and
all night long he dreamed of the Hoya Gully, to
which the girl had suggested a ride next day, and
of how he would confess his love to her there, for
Jack and the long-limbed Smith had rather
interrupted proceedings under the pepper-tree by
strolling past and inviting him for a moonligh'
swim.
But there was no one to interrupt them as they
rode over the grass tussocks next morning to
where the tops of the trees in Hoya Gully made a
fringe of green against the sun-dried downs. On
their way they passed a bush grave roughly
fenced, so that the Wirrowah cattle should not
trample it level, and Francie paused a moment to
fling a po3y of blue-bells she had gathered on to it.
“ Who lies there ? ” said King, his eyes on the
grand lines of the girl's figure as she stooped to
push the posy into place with her whip.
“ Oh, a friend of mine,” she said rather
evasively .; “the greatest one I ever had, I think.
She was very pretty and very foolish—just died
because she couldn’t get what she wanted; but
her eyes were just like those blue-bells. Come
on, Mr, King, one gets a good view of the gully
from here.”
They paced their horses a few yards further,
and the beautiful rift spread before them, un-
changed. and lonely as of old. The girl slipped to
the ground, and he hitched the horses to the
fence round the grave, and together they
descended into the green depths, led by the
music of the falling waters. The man’s heart
throbbed with excitement, for he was going to
kiss her again in a moment, and, stretching his
arms, he drew her to him. “Frances,” he whis-
pered, “Frances, darling .”
“Frances, darling,” took the caress with equa-
nimity, and lisrened attentively to her lover’s tale;
then she slipped from his arms into the billowy
sweep of maiden-hair, and, leaning over the pool,
gazed at the reflection of her face in the water.
“ You are so beautiful, sweetheart,” he said.
“ Yes,” she answered, gravely. “ I really think
I’m as good-looking for a girl as you ivere as a
man, for you are not quite so handsome now as
you were in the days when you made love to Mary
Beattie here—do you remember?”
“No,” he said, boldly, “I don’t want to remem-
ber that boyish foolishness. I’m a man now,
Frances, and I have a man’s love to give you.”
“ She was only seventeen then, but she }iad a
woman’s love to give you,” said the girl quietly.
“It lasted all her life long,” she added.
“Nonsense,” he laughed; “she has married
her teamster and has forgotten long ago—if she
ever gave it a second thought.”
“She married her teamster,” assented the girl,
“ but she always remembered.”
King smiled a little consciously. Even this
statement wasn’t altogether unpalatable to his
vanity. “Come,” he said, holding out his arms
to her, “I love you, and you love me, sweetheart;
don’t waste time with these old memories of
things that left no more impression on my heart
than your lovely face has left on those clear
waters.” And he bent to kiss her again, but the
girl sprang to her feet and, gathering up her
habit, said:
“No, no; I’ve had enough kissing. I really
don’t think I’d like to marry you at all.” And in
a moment she was half-way up the natural rock
steps which led to the Gully, laughing mis-
chievously as if she were the Imp of old. “ Come
on,” she called, “I’m going home.”
“Francie,” he said, “do you mean to tell me
that you have had no love for me at all—that you
have been playing with me ? ”
“Yes; just playing with you—just as you
played v. ith Mary Beattie, my girl friend of years
ago. She was older than I was, but she told me
all her hopes and fears, and I came that day to
hear her reward your devotion by telling you she
would give up the other man for your sake. But
I’m more honest with you than you were to her,
because I don’t carry on the game any longer than
I can help—l stop when I’m tired, I mean.”
“But you showed so plainly,” King began,
anger coming to the help of his wounded feelings,
“ Well, I suppose I did ; and, if it is a.iy con
solation to you to know it, I rather enjoyed the
experiment. I wanted you to care for me just
because I wanted you, do you understand ? It
wasn’t altogether out of revenge for what you did
to Mary, but (frankly) I’m tired, really and truly
horribly tired and bored with it all.” And the
Imp’s hard grey eyes looked out at him through
the softening fringe of lashes, their mischievous
gleam revealing far more plainly than did her
words the truth of her assertion. She was tired
of him. And as she stood there, on the brink of
the rift, he realised how much he was losing, for
apart from her beauty, the girl owned the won-
derful physical charm which dowers not even one
woman in every hundred, and which is stronger
than iron bands to hold the desire of man. _ She
saw the longing in his eyes, and laughed again as
she mounted her horse, using a gigantic grass
tussock as a block.
“ Don’t dare to come near me ! ” she said, as he
moved towards her mechanically. “You can’t
blame me; I’ve done no more to you than you
did to tier,” pointing to the grave on which the
blue-bells were already wilting, “ten years ago in
Hoya Gully.” And the echo of her laughter came
back to him as he watched her ride away. Then
he turned to look at the nameless grave in the
grass before him, and a strange thought came to
him, born of the memory of a sweet, tearful face
he had kissed at parting, in Hoya Gully, on
that bygone Spring morning.
“ She had forgiven me long ago,” he whispered.
“ She will only pity now.” And no doubt he was
right in his surmise, for most women forgive
easily—and have much to forgive, as a rule,
in this world.
Q.
ETHEL MULLS.
Pleasant and Refreshing to the Taste
and
Truly Beneficial in Effect
r
ft
VSHtUtiStUMum/UMI .-fz. .............
lIP
©
r*t*
is above all things a natural remedy ; that is, it assists nature to
perform the functions essential to health in an absolutely natural
way, without any injurious or weakening effects. Its perfect
freedom from every objectionable quality and substance makes
it the ideal laxative. California Syrup of Figs,
MATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE,
acts gently and painlessly upon the Liver, Stomach and Kidneys,
thorough v cleansing the system, promoting healthful legularity,
and leaving the organs permanently strengthened. It is the best
and most pleasant remedy for Constipation, Sluggish Liver,
Biliousness, Indigestion, Depression, Feverishness, Loss
of Appetite, Headache, and all kindred complaints, speedily
restoring health, appetite, energy and good spirits.
Ask for CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIOS, and look for the
Name and Trade Mark of the
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP COMPANY,
El & 32 SNOW HILL, LONDON, ENGLAND.
Australian Branch —7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Of all leading Chemists,
NOW READY.
PEARS’ ANNUAL
Christmas, 1902
Published by the Proprietors :
A. & F. PEARS, Ltd., 71-75 New Oxford-st., London, W.C.
Containing an Old-Fashioned Romance, entitled—
MERRKNILD’S MILLION
By R. E. FRANCILLON
With 22 Illustrations in Black and White by FRANK DADD, R. 1., in Handsome
Colored Cover.
With the above are—
-4 LARGE
PRESENTATION PLATES
Printed in Colors in the Best and Most ArL'stic Style
of the Chromo-Litho&raphic Art. • • • .
From the Original Painting by BIRKET FOSTER, R.W.S.
Size 28 by 19£. Printed in 13 Colors.
1. A Breezy Day.
From the Original Pai
Size 28 by 19£.
2. Impudent Hussies !
From the Original Paint
Size 23£ by 18.
3. Spring Blossoms.
From the Original Painting by Miss M. GROVES.
Size 23£ by 18. Printed in 13 Colors.
AND
4. The Ferry.
From the Original Painting by W. S. COLEMAN.
Size 16£ by Ilf. > ■ Printed in 13 Colors.
THE WHOLE ENTIRELY PRINTED IN ENGLAND.
Sold by Booksellers and Newsagents all over the World.


The Light of Love.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Turn down the stars and hide the moon—Love’s
Light shines over all;
And tree-tops bend and softly croon beneath the
glad ray-fall!
When night is starred with girls' eyes bright, no
need for candle-glow—
The world is lit with Love’s true light, turn lamp
and burner low.
The sweet Love-light effulgent gleams, and earth
is lit enough
When from soft eyes there gently streams the
shining Light of Love !
The dead man’s deep and dreamy tomb is robbed
of dark and shade
By eyes—that haunt the narrow room—of some
remembered maid.
From pole to pole the earth is starred all night
with passion-pyres,
That burn with all the warmth of sard and opals
and sapphires 1
No corner where the golden bars of Love-light do
not fall—
Turn down the moon and hide the stars, Love’s
Lamp shines over all.
GRANT HKRVHY.
The Dog—as a Sportsman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sheep-dog and the cattle-dog are the work-
men of the animal kingdom ; sporting and fight-
ing dogs are the professionals and artists.
A house-dog or a working-dog will only work
for his own master ; but a professional or artistic
dog will work for anybody, so long as he is treated
like an artist. A man going away for a week’s
shooting can borrow a dog, and the dog will work
for him loyally, just as a good musician will do
his best, though the conductor is strange to him,
and the other members of the band are not up to
the mark. The musician’s art is sacred to him,
and that is the case with the dog—Art before
everything.
It is a grand sight to see a really good setter
or pointer working up to a bird, occasionally
glancing over his shoulder to see that the man
with the gun has not lost himself. How he
throws his whole soul into his work, questing
carefully over the cold scent, and feathering
eagerly where the bird is close, and at last draw-
ing up like a statue. Not Paganini himself ever
more thoroughly lost himself in his art than does
the humble Spot or Ponto. He is rapt, ecstasied,
carried away. It is not amusement and not a
mere duty to him; it is a sacred gift, which he is
bound to exercise. A pointer in need of amuse-
ment will play with another dog—the pair pre-
tending to fight, and so on, but when there is work
to be done, then the dog is lost in the artist. How
crestfallen he looks if by any chance he blunders
on to a bird without pointing it 1 A fiddler who
has played a wrong note in a solo is the only crea-
ture who can look as discomfited. Humanity,
instead of going to the ant of the parable for
wisdom, should certainly go to the dog.
• • • •
Sporting dogs are like other artists, in that
they are apt to get careless of everything
except their vocation. No sporting dog is
ever reliable in his affections—nor is any human
artist, either, for that matter. They are not good
watch dogs, and take little interest in chasing
cats. They look on a little dog that catches rats
much as a great musician looks on a cricketer—it’s
clever, but it isn’t Art.
Hunting and fighting dogs are the gladiators of
the animal world. A fox-hound or a kangaroo-
dog is always of the same opinion as Mr.
Jorrocks:—“ All time is wasted what isn’t SDent
in ’untin’.” A greyhound will start out in* the
morning with three lame legs, but as soon as he
sees a hare start he must go. He utterly forgets
his sorrows in the excitement, just as a rowing-
man, all over boils and blisters, will pull a
desperate race without feeling any pain. Such
dogs are not easily excited by anything but a
chase, and a burglar might come and rob the
house and murder the inmates without arousing
any excitement among these athletic canines.
Guarding a house is ‘ ‘ not their pidgin’, ” as the
Chinese say ; that is one great reason for the
success of the dog at whatever branch of his
tribe’s work he goes in for—he is so very thorough.
Dogs who are forced to combine half-a-dozen pro-
fessions never make a success at anything. One
dog one billet is their motto.
* • * •
The most earnest and thorough of all the dog
tribe is the fighting dog. His intense self-respect,
his horror of brawling, his cool determination,
make him a pattern to humanity. The bulldog
or bull-terrier is generally the most friendly and
best-tempered dog in the world ; but when he is
put down in the ring he fights till he drops, fights
in grim silence though his feet are bitten through
and through, his ears are in rags, and his neck a
hideous mass of wounds. In a well-conducted
dog-fight each dog in turn has to attack the other
dog, and one can see the fierce earnestness blazing
in the eye of the attacker as he hurls himself
on to the foe. What makes him fight like
that? It is not bloodthirstiness, because they
are neither savage nor quarrelsome dogs: a
bulldog will go all his life without a fight,
unless put into a ring. It is simply their
strong self-respect, their stubborn pride which
will not let them give in. The greyhound snaps
once at his opponent and then runs for his life
but the fighting dog stands to it till death. Just
occasionally one sees the same type of human
being—generally some quiet-spoken, good-tem-
pered man who has taken up glove-fighting for a
living, and who, perhaps, gets pitted against a
man a shade better than himself. After a few
rounds he knows h 6 1S over-matched, but there is
something at the back of his brain that will not
let him cave in. Round after round he stands
punishment, and round after round he grimly
comes up, till, possibly, his opponent loses heart,
or a fluke hit turns the scale in his favor These
men are to be found in every class of life—many
of the garaest of the game are mere gutter-bred
boys who will continue to fight long after they
have endured enough punishment to entitle them
to quit. You can see in their eyes the same hard
glitter that shows in the bulldog’s eyes as he
limps across the ring, or in the eyes of the race-
horse as he lies down to it when his opponent is
outpacing him. It is grit, pluck, vim, nerve force:
call it what you like, and there is no created thing
that has more of it than the dog.
There w another phase of dog that has never
teen quite understood—the occasional longing
that comes over dogs to get into mischief. Every
station-owner knows that sometimes the house-
dof?s ~ no °, f what breed—are liable to take
wiKl? f 6 ° f s £? e P- kill ing. Any kind of dog
i i*’ * r 9 m c °bies downwards. They are verv
artful about it, too. They lie round the house till
dark, and then slink off and have a wild night’s
blood-spree, running down the wretched sheep
and tearing their throats open, and then, before
dawn, they slink back again and lie down around
the house as before. Sometimes dogs from different
homesteads meet in the paddocks, having
apparently arranged the whole affair beforehand!
Even httle dogs, like fox-terriers and skye-terriers
will have an occasional fit of murder. Many and
many a sheep-owner has gone out with a gun and
sliot his neighbor’s dogs for killing his sheep,
which his own wicked, innocent-looking dogs had
slam, it by any chance one happens to meet
dogs while they are on these little excursions,
they show at once that they know the game is up.
I hoy sneak away like dingoes, and then go for
home as hard as they can run. Some dogs will
not kill sheep on their own run, but always visit
neighbors paddocks. In civilised parts, where
there are no sheep to kill, the dog sometimes
takes to fowl-killing, by way of diversion.
, j ni by experience, and the experience is
banded down from generation to generation. In
districts where dingoes are bad it is easy to poison
them at first; but, when poisoning has been going
on for a few years, it is almost impossible to get a
dingo to swallow abz The best plan is to take
out a sandwich am some of it (before it is
poisoned), then poison the fragments and throw
them about, and rub some of the bread and meat,
w ?., Pdisoned, into r crack in a log. The dingo
u lfc ° ut tke lo &> doubtless thinking that
what the man lias been eating must be all right.
* * * m
So much then for the dog whose courage, con-
centration and earnest attention to his business or
profession make him a pattern to humanity. No
man can equal a dog in any of these characteris-
tics. it will be seen that in this article there is
no reference to the dog with the tenor voice, who
howls in suburban back-yards, or the big swag-
genng dog, who lies fragrantly in the sun before
the doors of town houses. These poor unfor-
tunates have missed their vocation. The real dog
is a workman, and should be respected as such.
THE BANJO
‘ President Roosevelt has sent a watch and
chain and a medal to each of the chiefs of Tutuila,
the Samoan island belonging to America, who
ceded their rights of sovereignty to the United
States. (Gable Item.) What humor ! And how
like a king !
The mendacious Philp Government has
done its usual back-down over the deporting of
its beloved Kanaka. Owing to the fearful
reports of what would happen when Tanna and
co. returned to their native soil, the New Cale-
donian Governor offered to take any deported
Kanaka (who feared violence) on to the French
settlement, and the Philp Govt, has been com-
pelled to say that the offer is unnecessary. The
returned Kanaka, who was going to be eaten by
his loving family and old-time friends the instant
he landed, is a defunct myth.
At Terawhiti (M.L.) there still remain the
engine-house, machinery, and tramways of what
was once a busy gold-mine. More than 20 years
ago gold was *hund in the streams in that vicinity,
and, later, prospectors found the Albion reef,
which was considered to promise payable gold.
The whole of the material for the mine was
earned .by steamer to Qterhangi Bay, and
then carted in small parcels three miles
on a bullock-dray. There are no roads
within five miles of the mine, and the country is
rough. The principal reefs were near the top of
a range, and tramways ran along the summit and
down to the battery-house. But the mine was a
duffer. At least, there were no dividends; but
there appears to have been a good deal of reckless
expenditure indulged in. The machinery just
looks as though it had stopped for a few hours.
Everything is in place, but it is one mass of steel
“ frcize-up ” with rust. And instead of the crush-
ing roar of the stamps, one hears only the creak
of a loose sheet of iron and the melancholy “ flap,
flap ” of the whare door.
Writes a man who has just finished read-
ing his 17th book on the Boer War:
I have come to the conclusion that the war was a
cynical joke on the part of the administrator for things
terrestrial. A French officer who went out to teach the
Boers wrote again and again in his diary that the British
were too slow to catch tortoises. One day they
surrounded that smart Frenchmen, who, to his credit,
preferred to die fighting- and he did. Oronje said he’d
been fighting the British for 20 years and never knew them
to leave the railway line for fear they might have to do
without condensed milk ; still, the force that mopped him
up marched nearly 400 miles on its feet, and lived mostly
on a biscuit per day. When Cronje was trapped Roberts
slung lyddite at him for a week. The first shots killed
all Cronje’s animals, which, of course, could not be got
into dug-outs ; and Roberts might as well have saved all
the rest of his lyddite and used his 70 pieces of artillery
elsewhere. It did no harm after it had killed the trans-
port animals, and Cronje never dreamed of surrendering
till they began to hum. He was not bombarded out—
merely stunk into surrender. The stink was mightier
than the sword or the lyddite, a fact worth remembering
when our own trouble comes along. The most successful
general against the Boers was the one who attacked
them least. French always resolutely refused to attack
the Boers if he could help it. There was no beastly
pride about him, and he never hankered after glory.
Dead Boers were his game and he always swung round
behind the Boers where, if they wanted food or water
they had to come out and fight him on ground of his
own choosing. Result: whenever the Boers saw French
slithering away to the side they reached for their
carpet bags and left. Every Boer or continental
writer I have read speaks badly of the Canadian
and Australian troops, stigmatising them as cut-
throats and chicken-stealers. One snorting Hollander
described the approach of the British force so:—“ At
daybreak their big ship-guns flung shots at us from
seven miles away. They did no harm. We had just
finished breakfast when a mounted force appeared.
They were the farm-robbers under the Baron French. At
the first shot they scattered, swung to the east and
galloped to a line of kopjes which our force was too small
to occupy, and which overlooked the dorp (village).
These ruffians had not the slightest intention of attacking
our position as soldiers should; they merely waited
pasturing their horses in the long grass and training a
galloping gun on our water-fountain. A little later we
saw parties of them had entered the dorp, and were
chasing fowls, killing pigs and taking liberties with the
unfortunate women. The sight so maddened us that the
burghers compelled the commandant to lead them
against the kopjes. Alas ! their generous rage could not
prevail against the impregnable position of these brigands
from the ends of the earth, and after many brave patriots
were slam and wounded we retired to our kop unable to
prevent the looting of the dorp. These men who come
from the American and Australian colonies are strangely
favored. They never attack defended positions and if
the burgher forces will not retire to save having their
communications cut the colonial troops are drawn aside
and pasture their horses till the foot soldiers of England
Up . a ", d . ! aunched against the positron. The
1-ves of the foot soldiers of England are apparently of no
value as they are never spared.' The courage of these
S o< ?eyond belief ** lack of intelligence/ which
The Wail of the Back
m
&
i
ir.
Ej
’Tis a warning of Kidney Ills.
Backache is the Kidneys’ cry for help,
the aches and pains of bad back—the
Lame Back —the Weak Back - all
tell of Kidneys sick from overwork.
Kidneys become blocked, con-
gested, inflamed.
They’re delicate little organs,
those kidneys of ours.
Weren’t intended to stand
the strain that Twentieth
Century hustle and bustle
puts on them. Most natural
thing in the world that they
should get out of order.
And when they do they
let us know about it mighty
quickly.
Send a sharp twinge in
the back to tell us of their
need for help. It’s a warn-
ing that had best be heeded.
Serious trouble ahead if it isn’t-
Backache is the beginning—the end is death, if the
warning is neglected.
No time should be wasted.
Go to their aid.
•an’s Backache Kidney
Will start the Kidneys work-
ing rightly, relieve the back-
ache, heal the inflammation.
Remove the Backache, cure
every Kidney 111, cure Dia-
betes, and women’s disorders.
They are a little remedy that
help women to bear the bur-
dens of life more easily. Make
better, happier, more capable
women of them. Are doing it
right here in Sydney.
The best proof of this lies
in the evidence of people you
know, the evidence of friends
and neighbours.
SYDNEY PROOF.
Mrs. F. May, Rowe-street, Woollahra, this city, says: “Through over-exer-
tion, I have been a great sufferer with my back. It assumed the form of lumbago,
and arose from the Kidneys. The pain was always more or less bad, but some-
times it was terrible ; you see, I had to get about, no matter what my agony might
be, and in consequence I was always in more or less misery. This lasted for a
number of years, until at last I got a box of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
Previous to taking this remedy I had been using various medicines, one after
another, and some of them gave me a slight relief, but it would have been better
had I left the majority of them alone. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills gave me
immediate relief. I have taken them a good deal when the pains came on me
again, and they never failed to relieve me at once. I find them a splendid standby,
and like to have them where I can lay my hand on them when necessity arises.”
Three years later, Mrs. May says : “I’ve used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
occasionally, since I made the above statement. I’ve always found them effectual.
A few doses make me forget that I ever had any trouble with my back. lam
always glad to recommend Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. ”
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS are sold by all
Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes,
15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price by Eoster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DOAN’S.
Don’t Neglect.
A COMMON CASE OF PILES.
IT MAY LEAD TO SERIOUS RESULTS.
When people generally understand that all
such fatal diseases as fistula, ulcer of the
rectum, fissure, &c., almost invariably begin in
a simple case of Piles, they will learn the
wisdom of taking prompt treatment for the
first appearance of trouble in this quarter.
Doan’s Ointment will certainly cure every
form of piles—itching, bleeding, protruding,
and blind piles—and hundreds of lives ha,ve
been saved by using this cheap but effective
remedy right at the start, because at such
times a single pot will effect a cure, while in
the old deep-seated, chronic cases several pots
are sometimes necessary before a cure is
effected. Here is a casein point :
Mr. William Gilliver, of Gilliver and Curtis,
General Contractors, whose private address is
Avoca, Bankstown, writes us, 10th December,
1900:
“I wrote you February 14, 1899, advising
you that Doan’s Ointment had cured me of
itching piles, after twenty-two years’ affliction.
I had let six months go by before I wrote that
letter, as I wished to see whether the cure was
a permanent one. I had used many remedies
ia these twenty-two years’ trouble, and could
scarcely believe that only half a pot of oint-
ment could work such a cure. Since I wrote
that last letter I have had more lasting proof
of the durability of the good this preparation
has done me. I have not had occasion to use
the ointment since. It was a permanent cure.
Many people wrote to me about the value of
Doan’s Ointment, and I advised them to give
it a trial, and then let me know the results.
In consequence, I have received many letters
telling me of cures effected by Doan’s Oint-
ment.”
It cannot be repeated too often that Doan’s
Ointment will cure itching piles. It will cure
them absolutely. But do not take our word
for it. Write to Mr. Gilliver and ask him.
He knows it. Doan’s Ointment is sold by all
chemists and storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per pot,
or will be posted on receipt of price by Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
But be sure it is DOAN’S.


Used It 20 Years
When My System Was Run Down. When I Was Weak and Miserable.
When I Could neither Eat nor Sleep.
■
ST
Mr. F. W. Dußieu, of Collingwood,
Victoria, sends us his photograph and
says:
“I certainly ought to know about Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla, for I have used it over 20
years. My faith in it is greater today than
ever. lam anxious to tell every one of its
blood-purifying power and its value as a
remarkable preventive of disease. I don’t
wait until I am down sick before taking it.
Just as soon as I feel weak, exhausted, or
lose my appetite, or don’t sleep well, I
take a few doses, and in a day or two am
all right. I tell my friends to keep it on
hand, for it’s ready then the very day they
want it. I know it has often prevented
me from being seriously ill, and I have
many acquaintances who tell the same
story.”
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla lias been sold for over half a century. It lias been tried
tod tested in every way. Nothing like using an old, reliable, and effective
medicine. Intelligent people do not like to experiment. It’s too dangerous.
Unknown and untried medicines often work more serious results than the
disease. When you need a Sarsaparilla, get “Ayer’s,” for it is the oldest,
strongest, and best Sarsaparilla you can buy.
Cling to the kind that has been tested for 60 years. For purifying the blood,
strengthening the digestion, and bracing up the whole nervous system, use
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Sarsaparilla
.
Tested arid Tried by Millions of People
Ayer’s Pills are liver pills. They cure constipation, biliousness
Prepared by DK. J. C. AYEK & CO., Lowell, Mass., TT. S. A.
Zhe Most Refreshing t&rink in JTusiraUct.
Cordials
say* v
“ Montserrat” Lime-Fruit Juice, either with water or aerated water, is a
delightful thirst quencher.
Sole Consignees—EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON.
EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
JUfJfmtS!—Elliott Bros,, Ltd., J. Connell & Co., Sydney; D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
y for Acidity of the
eartburn, Indigestion,
Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS]
MAGNESIA,
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate .Ftmales,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
SINGLETON'S
AND
E YE
EYES,
M ENT
BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
rsi EVER FAILS.
Ask youp Chemist fop the Little Book :
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
$
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
IUaSS.
rf if; 3
ffifl
mm
URES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Golds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
IF YOU HAVE
something good to tell, there is no need to delude the unwary
into reading an apparently interesting story, which proves
to be a prelude to an advertisement. The startling story
and the “ thrilling ” testimonial do not add to the merit of
the article advertised. If you are troubled with
BAD DIGESTION, IMPURE BLOOD, LANGUOR,
INACTIVE LIVER, SICK-HEADACHE,
or other such ailments whicli arise from a Disordered
Stomach imperfectly doing its work, you need not
experiment with the many medicines so plausibly put
before you —take
BEECHAM’S
PILLS,
and you have a reliable remedy, proved by
thousands of sufferers to be unequalled for
dispelling Disorders of the Stomach and Liver.
It is not necessary to bring Beecham’s Pills
before your notice surreptitiously, as they are
openly recommended by those who have found
that Beecham’s Pills will do all that is
claimed for them, hence they have the largest
sale of any Patent Medicine in the World.
Sold Everywhere in Boxes, price Is* 10* (56 pills) and 2s* 9d* (168 pills)*
TEL,
YOU ENJOY YOUR LUNCH
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (sjngle), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY,
Single Room, with Full Board, Bs. per
day, or £2 2s. per week.
TERMS.—The convenient
system or paying for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms ; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well.- There is always a large and
templing variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it-in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.3 o—from Is.
upwards. (Silver groU at work.
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLIH3 STREET, MEEBOURITE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Comnionwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E.,
L.F.F.S.G., L.M.. etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, -Victoria, New South Wales,
etc., * ' •
Hay be CONSULTED DAILY
151 ELIZABETH STREET (Hyde Park), SYDNEY
(ELMLEY UOUSKj.
I>r. MARTIN, during his recent European Tour, visited the Leading Hospitals of GREAT BRITAIN
and EUROPE, and has now at his CONSULTING ROOMS all the latest improvements in ELECTRIC
APPLIANCES, BATHS, etc., and all the most recent scientific methods of treatment for all NERVOUS,
I UNG HEART SKIN, and all CHRONIC DISEASES of Men and Women, including- the BROWN.
SEQUARD, KRAFTT-EBING, and KNOX-MERCER TREATfIENT for a.l ACUTE INFLAMMA-
TORY and CHRONIC COHPLAINTS, in the treatment of which he has been so successful during his
14 years’ Australian practice, thus ensuring all Patients entrusting themselves to his care an accurate
diagnosis, together with prompt and effectual treatment.
COUNTRY PATIENTS treated by Correspondence (Fee, by letter, £1). Medicines forwarded to all
parts of Australasia. All communications confidential. Dr. MARTIN has treated over 20,000 cases during
the last 15 years—a success unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia.
Moderate Charges* Effectual Treatment* Absolute and Rapid Cures*
COKSULTAIIOX HOURS—IO to 2 and 7to 9 Dally.


CELLULOID—
COLLAR
GOODNESS
We sell the good kind of Celluloid
Collars. Our Celluloid Collars
have a nioe, white, olean appear-
ance, and stay white. They clean
well, and last longer than other
kinds. They save lots of money, be-
cause you can wash them yourself.
In all the latest styles and
shapes, ah Lowest Prices
for Highest Qualities.
PERDRiAUj & CO.
Rubber Merchants,
270 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
Latest
£2.10 t0£5.5.0
Ks l^ h ' r ? re ?i s -, teel or Wood Rims .
tree Wheels, Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any Port in Australasia .
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using 2,1 d. Stamp. Address Dept 34611
Mead Cycle Co-
Chicago.
U.S.A.
60
DYEISTG
FOK THE LADIES.
w. c. ELDEIDG-E &c CO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
< onntry Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended, to.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
wo
TRADE
32 & 34 CSarence Street, SYDffET.
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send for Catalogue.
BENNIE, TEARE & CO ■I Representatives.
\V
&
%
«p
stocks at Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Coolgardie.
KEMP’S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s back as long: as required. It will NOT injure the wool. It will dissolve out under
the ordinary scouring: process.
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
FECTOI, CM HUE * CO., REUOIIIE.
BLACK, BED, and BLTJE (in 8-gallon Cases):-
PRICE IN MELBOURNE „ ... 4=/- per Gallon.
„ SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.) „ „ 47- „
„ BRISBANE (E. Rich &Co , Ltd.) «. „ «. 4/- n
„ HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.) „ .. 4/-
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
As well as Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers,
JR
*
m
m
: -o
'i:
V"-
HAVE IKT STOCK.
All Kinds of Engineers’Fittings and Supplies
Drills
Reamers
Wrenches
Wood Pulleys Plummer Blocks
Shafting: Collars
Hang:ers Couplings
Valves Valves Valves Valves
Oster Stocks and Dies and Taps, Crane Hing:ed Pipe Vyces, Emery
Wheels and Grinders, all kinds of Lubricators, Starrett Fine
Mechanical Tools, etc., etc., etc.
write for Prices to 60 Clarence-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
A
■ufferera from Deafness or Hel.. >eises
desiring a, complete and permanent cure
should write to The L. R. VERNON CO
tl °v., H 1 U J NTEi> - RT ’ SYDNEY, for parol
phlet deic ibing an entirely new self,
applied method which we will send post
free on mentioning this paper.
h. p. eng s co.
Machinery Merchants,
Melbourne & Sydney.
HAVE IN STOCK—
Blake's Steam Pumps.
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery.
Mundy’s Hoisting Engines-
Empire Oo.s Laundry Machinery-
American “All Steel” Pulleys-
Harris ‘‘Ohamoion” Lubricating Oils.
M nson Reducing Valves-
Ludlow Sluice Valves-
Sorting's Injectors and Ejectors-
Tanite Emery Wheels.
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS Of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of BELF
CURE, will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address: A. MINER. G.P.C., SYDNEY.
CURIOUS
BOOKS
ETC.
The Largest Catalogue of
ENGLISH and
FRENCH BOOKS,
with all novelties, Is.
Apply—
-116 Box Paris.
Trewhella Bros.
PATENT
LOG AND STUMP JACKS.
..
Wk
If you have Stumps, Roots, Stones, or Logs to clear, of
Threshers or Machinery to move, try these Jacks! Thef
are used by thousands throughout Australasia, and th" e
sales are rapidly increasing, which proves their value-
You can obtain them from the ironmonger with who®
you deal,' or I will supply you direct.
The Melbourne and Sydney Prices are—
Lift, Tons Price
Double Purchase Jack 4 65 *
n »> » 6 75/*
Single „ „ 2i 40 *
With Patent LOWERINC GEAR, 5/- extra.
Full Information and Trade Discounts from
W. TBEWEBIiLAj - rentham, Victoria
or K. HIND 3, 17 Loftus St., Sydney-
