

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC
IRROY’S CHAMPA
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
R. G. WATEUNS & CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’"and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE. _
290
PRIZE
MEDALS
AND
GRAND
PRIX
PARIS
1900.
B,
r
26,000 Steam Engines
MEDICAL, CERTIFICATE.
“ Ararat (Victoria), 25th Aug., 1902.
“ During the past few years Eczema has become of very
frequent occurrence, especially in children. In . the treat-
ment of this troublesome affection the usual medicinal
remedies failed in many cases to give relief, and I was very
pleased”to have a new preparation, named ‘ Oleac,’ put into
my hands for trial. I can recall to my mind three cases of
children in whieh the usual remedies had no beneficial
effect, and the application of ‘ Oleac ’ according to the
printed directions removed all the irritation of the skin.
I have also heard of many adults using the ‘ Oleac ’ with
great benefit.—JAMES SMEAL, Surgeon, &c., Ararat ’’
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin writers. Cloth, 300 pages ;
price, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS !
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° m rut street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Huston, Proctor & Co., H-fl
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE—PGRTABLE,
VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
STEAM and OIL ENGINES,
AND
Eccentric Motion. TliraslainS Macb.inea,
Send for Prices and Particulars.
Saw Beuclxes. &0., «Sso.
“HERVEY’S RACKAROCK”
17 Years’ Unbroken Record as a Standard fustralian Explosive. Cor. CLARENCE & KING STS., SYDNEY
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831
WHISKY.
HOBART.
Ijadleys Orient [jotel.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(Fibst Grade).
J. A. TURNER - - Proprietor.
DIGESTION
PENFOLD’S WINES.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2J 3 3£ 4 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
-17 -/9 -/10§ 1/- 1/2 1/6 1/11 2/8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 2/11 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
J. G. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan • Lamp.
s
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE mil & SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch = * 6 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
i epot—Central Buildings, Edward-st., Brisbarxe
Mining and Dredging Plants. Engines, Boilers, &c.
Fowler Traction Engines.
The Clyde Engineering C?y.Lt
Desiccating Plants
Hopper Waggons, &c.
m
PROOF
USE
Head Office:
10 BLICH ST., SYDNEY
The Lancet states:
“A SOUND, HONEST BRANDY, which
our analysis and examination show
to be of a FRAGRANCE, PURITY and
QUALITY SECOND TO NONE.”
■
A NICE PRESENT.
The New Combination PIN-
CUSHION, THIMBLE & REEL
HOLDER, nickel plated, plush
top. Clamps on to any table
by means of a spring. Price,
only 25.; post free.
Star Novelty Company,
229-231 Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
(THE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
WHEN buying a KEROSENE GAS BTOVE insist
* on getting a noiseless
JUPITER
The Very Latest
Invention.
Burns Noiselessly,
Without Smell
or Smoke,
Perfectly Safe,
Obtained First Prize
wherever exhibited.
Stocked by all Leading Hardware Merchants and
Storekeepers.
Sole Agents for Australasia—
Nelson and Robertson,
17 LOFTUS ST., SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vol 23 No. 1186.]
[Saturday, November 8, 1902.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE LATEST BOOKS BY THIS WEEK’S MAIL
Geo. Robertson & Co.
Marchmont, Sarita the Carlist, 2s Od & 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Savage (R.H.), Queen’s Bright Eyes, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Carey (Rosa N.), Highway of Fate, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Chesney, The Branded Prince, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. fid.
In a Tuscan Garden, 6s, p. 6d.
Macdonald, Electric Wave, 10s, p. Is 3d.
More Tales from Tolstoi, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Jerome, Paul Kelver, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Weyman (Stanley), In the King’s By ways, 2s6d&3s 6d, p. 6d
Besant (Sir Walter), Five Years’Tryst, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Barr (Robert), The Prince of Good Fellows, 2s 6d &
3s 6d, p. 6d. . Cable (G.W.), Bvlow Hill, ss, p. 6d.
Robertson, German Literature, 12s 6d, p. Is 3d.
Shelle}', How to Buy a Camera, Is 9d, p. 3d.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
AUSTRALIA’S
SWEET SINGER.
Victor J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,”
handsomely bound, makes a fine presentation
volume to friends abroad. Post free from Bul-
letin office, ss. 4d.
The Bulletin publications.
Forwarded to any address in return for postal
, notes, stamps, or P. 0.0. for prices stated.
Send Id. stamp for The Bulletin Book Circular,
No. V.
Fair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. New Issue. Blue
cloth, blue edges, with portrait; price, ss. ;
postage, sd. *** A charming presentation
volume.
The Ways of Many Waters: ' '
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top; price,
55.; postage, 3d. *#* Australia’s best book
of sea and sailor verse.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; price, ss. ; postage, 3d. *** The best
book of Maoriland verse yet published.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davia*(“Steele Rudd”). New
Issue. With about eighty illustrations by
Mahony, Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher
and Full wood; 65.; postage, Bd. %* “ The
jolliest book yet printed in Australia.”
A Bose of Regret:
Verses by James Hebblethwaitk ; being
No. II of The Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped, Is, 6d. ; postage, Id.
The Circling Hearths:
By Roderic Quinn. No. 11l of The
Bulletin Booklets. Enveloped, Is. 6d. ;
postage. Id.
Dreams in Flower:
By Louise Mack. No. IV of The Bulle-
tin Booklets. Enveloped, 2s. 6d. ;
postage, 2d.
Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories:
By Albert Dorrington (“ Alba Dorion ”).
A handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated; price 4s. 6d. ; postage, 7d.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages; price, 4s. 6d.; postage, 6d.
The 'Bulletin Reciter:
By Eighty Bulletin Bards. With illus-
trations by “Hop,” N. Lindsay, A. J.
Fischer, F. Leist, D. H. Souter, and H.
McCrae. In handsome cloth,, decorated ;
price, ss. ; postage, 4d,
Works by Francis Adams:
(Publishers’ Remainders, offered as Second-Hand.)
Poetical Works, complete edition, printed
in Brisbane by Muir & MJorcom. Paper
covers; 4to. Only a few copies remain.
Price, ss. ; postage, 4d.
Australian Essays, printed in Melbourne
by Wm. Inglis & Co. Paper covers, Bvo.
Only a few copies remain. Price, 2s. 6d. ;
postage, 3d.
Songs of the Army of the Night, printed
in Sydney. Boards, Bvo. Only a few copies
remain. Price, 2s. 6d. ; postage, 3d.
THE BULLETIN BOOKS.
Sole Distributing Agents :
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
Special Wholesale Agents :
New South Wale* .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
Queensland .. .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co. , Ltd
Victoria George Robertson Proprietary.
Tasmania George Robertson Proprietary.
South Australia .. E. S. Wigg & Son.
Westralia .. .. E. S. Wigg & Son.
Auckland and district Wildman, Lyell, & Arey.
Others to be appointed.
Sold by All Leading Booksellers.
The Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd.,
214 George-st., Sydney, Australia.
BUSHHAN AND
BUCCANEER.
The Life and Writings of Harry Morant.
Gives the true facts as to the Bushveldb Carbineers
and certain Australian scapegoats.
Wholesale from EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE.
Retail from all Booksellers,. and Post-Free from
“The Bulletin” Office Is, Id.
. THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Doughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
a
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C■ The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D . A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
OIN6EES
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S
JUJUBES (Registered),
Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous drug
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, In Tins, 1s 6d ; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland— dos
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE, and FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO.,
Melbourne, Agents.
THE RED PAGE.
Some Unpainted Pictures.
(DEDICATED TO AUSTRALIAN ARTISTS.)
THERE are a few big pictures of Australia
hung permanently in the chambers of some
minds, but never yet on the walls of any
gallery. They stand for Australia to
those who hold them in possession. They are
sacredly characteristic—holy spots amongst all
the commonplace. Once seen, recognised, under-
stood, fixed for ever. Not usually of horror,
though drought-horror does also burn in ; nor yet
of those things of which it is often loosely said :
“ They will not paint.”
I have one sand-ridge picture in everlasting
possession and unchanging freshness. It came in
an evening hour, near 30 years ago, out on the
wide country west of Gongolgon, far down the
Bogan. We rode out of a belt of box-timber to a
” plain, and across the plain, five miles away,
Stretched the sand-ridge. There was a sense of
purple on the pale brown plain (the grass was long
and dry) Hut all the ridge 1 wgs indigo, intense as
the midnight moonless heaven, where the sharply
serrated crest cut the primrose of the sky. Prim-
rose, yes absolute', pure, pale primrose, lay the
long bar above the sunset and the pines. Higher
weie the rose tint and the violet, familiar and
beautiful. But the primrose band through which
shone one sole star, the lpng, low, indigo ridge,
the waterpools in the clay-pans on the plain’s edge,
reflecting the sky like patines of old gold, the
shimmer of white from acres of low white blossom
dying out amongst the trees, seemed to shape
themselves for the artist’s eve or the poet’s mind.
Companions, like ghost birds on the plain, black
swans sailing westward in arrowy flight, were
hardly requisite to stamp it Australian. The soul
of the continent shone out on the great features of
earth and heaven, insistent in its demand on per-
petual memory as an Apocalyptic dream.
Another picture of the same hour came down in
'that happy corner of the continent where the big
grass-carpeted volcanic hills lie about the plains,
and the lakes gleam, and glossy-leafed light woods
are more frequent than eucalypti. The sun was
very low that autumn day, and Mt. Elephant
glowed as if lit by inward fire. Light had been
large throughout the afternoon, but at that
moment an impalpable presence seemed to
rise from the whole face of things. .It was
as if a green Hesper had woven a spell. A pale-
green glow suffused sky and water, plain and hill.
It was palpable, assertive as the ordinary flush of
sunrise at sunset; an atmosphere of pale, soft
shining green. Unpaintable ? Maybe. And yet
Vicat Cole materialised something as strangely
toned and tinted in his “Ripening Sunbeams,”
And Millet in his “ Angelus.”
Another picture came at hot fioon round beyond
Cape Wollamai, on the Gippsland coast. The
house on the brow of the coastal hills overlooked
a coujfle of miles of rolling downs, all timbered
with she-oak. Beyond was a long lagoon, and on
the high beach between lagoon and ocean, a belt
of gigantic honeysuckles. The oaks were the
color of oaks, an Australian tint hard to par-
ticularise, the lagoon water a sheet of dull,
gleaming steel. But the honeysuckle bank, wind-
kissed, showed olive silvery above and white as
snow on the under-leaf. All beyond was the
ocean—a single sapphire.
Inland and westward a few miles from thence
is the big timber. “Ye must be verra humble,”
John Ford Patterson, good man and artist, used
to say, “to understand even a little o’ the like o’
that.” John painted a very little and is still
endeavouring to understand, so that he may pour-
tray and interpret the big thing. The Big Bush,
yes—it is high up amongst Nature’s wonders
and glories bracken and maidenhair car-
peting the soil and fringing the mountain-stream.
Over the carpet ferns spreading a canopy of
giant fronds. Over the fronds sassafras shooting
away thirty feet. Over the sassafras the beech
(true fagus, though miscalled myrtle) speading
broad, fan-like boughs 60 to 80 feet fronq the
ground. Over the beech, 300 feet without a
bough, lance-like into the blue, the mighty
amygdalina.
Memory turns out a weird slide strangely in con-
trast with that gigantic piece. It is of the briga-
low. A bank of brigalow on the lower Paroo
country. An absolute skeleton forest it looks in
the moonlight. Hard, white, gaunt, bare,
ghostly. Not of this world one might deem. The
green, luminous eyes of the dingo obtrude, and
the night birds are silenced at his long, quavering
howl.
It is a background for drought picture, Let it
pass.
Wliat odour is now in the-'air ? What shimmer
of silver above flower-starred grass, and against
the swart river-timber barring the steel-blue sky ’
Ah, the myalls! best beloved of all the broad-land
trees. The myalls in the season of their glory,
when lambs are lost and cattle browse knee-deep
in bush grass and herbage ; when an axe-stroke
lets out fragrance as if a hundred thousand violets
exhaled their sweetest breath; when the long
tendrils beaded with morning dew droop more
willowy than the willows, shine more silvery than
the olives. They are indeed as trees of fairy-land,
a fairy-land all our own. What have we here
beneath the myalls, big and shadowy down
in that bend of the Murrumbidgee ? Their
invitation to rest has been accepted. A score
of travelling shearers have camped and horses
graze round about; blankets unrolled make bold
bits of color. Shirts of many tints ; faces, arms
all bronze. A column of smoke, a flicker of fire ;
picturesque strewage of belongings, and all
amongst the myalls on the flower-starred grass.
Surely that might do on canvas. It seems so con-
veniently of a piece. But have we any painting
of a myall tree, or of a bit of myall country, in
our Australian galleries ?
“ I can show you finer lace than that,” said he,
“square miles of it.” And they went out into the
stilly evening, she wondering. It was a nest in
the low mountains. They call it the Amphi-
theatre. Henry Kingsley lived there most of his
Australian time. The hills, all timbered, seemed
growing round about, and when the afterglow was
warm on the sky, he said, “ Look well along their
crests.” Then the lace of God’s garment
appeared. All the foliage of the long forested
ridges netted against the paling amber and rose
was, is, as finest lace —finer on our eucalypt-
clothed ranges than anywhere else in the world.
Arthur Collingridge painted a little of that in an
hour of happy insight. But, so much remains.
It is yvoven of another pattern on the Wim-
mera. The flat and dreary Wimmera. There is
a sand hummock in the angle of the river and the
Yarrambiack Creek, and on that hummock used
to be some marvellously great and glorious red
gums and bull-oaks. The red gums were like, and
fully comparable in size and symmetry, to the
lordliest oaks in any English park or chase. The
bull oaks were no more like anything English
than an emu is like a barn-door fowl. When one
got them against a ruddy or a saffron evening sjcy
they made strange beauty. The oak was a net,
like Vivien’s hair, and every leaf and twig of the
gum was pencilled plain. Ido not think they
will ever be painted, for the selector has been
loose on the land near thirty years, and he would
“ ring ” the tree of Paradise the serpent climbed,
if he thought half a goat’s keep more would grow
underneath,
Kosciusko ! How long the old warrior has
called in vain to painter and poet—to health-
seeker and tourist! A day or two on his slopes and
about his crown will suffice to crowd a good deal
of the wall-space in memory’s galleries. Stretches
of snow on the southern face, Centuries old, over-
hanging black tarns that never saw the sun.
The mighty ravine of the summit in whose depths
rise the Murray founts, and on whose edges the
eagles build. The thunderstorm on the heights
with those white-breasted king birds riding on the
ridge of elemental war. And, the glory of the
flowers which follow the melting snow—
“ In den hertern regionen
Wo die reinen forinen wohnen.”
You feel the truth of it amid their solemn splen-
dor. Miles broad they lie on beds of soft silvery-
foliage amaranthus, divinely perfect. Once seen,
to blossom in memory for ever. Let them rest so
on the brief, imperfect record of these faintly-
perceived, all unrealised things, whose invitation
still comes to those who have eyes to see, hearts
to feel, and minds to understand.
F.M.
The Problem of Education.
Education is the unfolding of the disposition of the
pupil ;it is the creation of attitudes so to speak. Thus a
scientific training is valuable, not because of the know-
ledge accumulated, but because of the attitude engen-
dered. It is culture, not knowledge simply, that is the
ultimate aim of education ; that is to say, education is a
process of assimilation, not accumulation. No one
realised the tyranny of knowledge in education better, or
preached it more eloquently, than Edward Thring. He
hegged teachers to “banish the idolatry' of knowledge, to
realise that calling out thought and strengthening the
mind are an entirely different and higher process from the
putting in of knowledge and the heaping up of facts”;
and he urged them to “ choose deliberately a large
amount of ignorance, and fling omniscience into the
common sewer if ever they mean to be skilled workmen,
masters of mind, lords of thought, and to teach others to
be skilled workmen ’’(Rawnsley, “ Life of Thring,” p. 34).
It is the attitude of the school towards life that needs to
be revolutionised, not the curriculum alone. That is
what we mean by saying that it is a change of atmosphere
that is needed. This revolution of attitude in the school
will engender a change in the child. Nature and natural-
ness will take the place of the formal studies and for-
malists.
The school should be a republic of childhood where the
right of each individual to full development is recog-
nised. The purpose of education is to place the child en
rapport with his environment, and this is done by train-
ing him in responsiveness and in power of organising his
experience. Education is a growth of self-consciousness.
Instead of a free republic of childhood, the school of
to-day is modelled and controlled on the lines of a regi-
ment. Indeed, under present conditions it could hardly
be otherwise. The immense classes, varying from forty
or fifty to over one hundred children, entrusted to each
teacher preclude education, and indeed even instruction,
to a great extent.
Most of the mechanical drudgery and routine of the
school are due to the size of the classes. Until the class
has been reduced to quite half the present size, it is use-
less to look for scientific principles at work in the school.
The school is compelled by its numbers to resist its effort
to instruction, and that of the most formal kind. The
three R.’s can be taught by mechanical methods, and to
large classes of children, but education is impossible
under these conditions. Perhaps some day we shall see
the futility of placing in the hands of the child these in-
tellectual weapons without giving him the culture which
would prompt’ their use in after-life.
[From “ The Making of Citizens,” by B. E. Hughes,
Scott Publishing Co.]
the least of the problems of modern
civilisation is that of education. In it,
v as in other things, the world seems to
have hurried too much. Industrial life
is chaotic, largely because the era of machinery
came so quickly that too little time was allowed
for the equitable readjustment of employing rela-
tions. The idea of general instruction has been
adopted with so much haste as to give very little
general ‘ ‘ education. ” The problem thereby created
is the difficult one of a state with a huge body of
people having political power, having certain
knowledge of facts, but having very little of that
mental balance which true education gives, and
accordingly at the mercy of every political hum-
bug, and eagerly accepting every gospel of discon-
tent. Civilisation, and civilised democracy espe-
cially., some day—and that not very far distant —
will have to “educate” its citizens in the real
sense of the word, as a matter of self-preservation.
It is needless to repeat the stale truism that the
drilling in of certain facts, or approximations of
facts, is not “education.” But what it is neees-
saTy to impress, is the very serious nature of the
task to be faced when it is sought to really
“educate.” Some of the essentials of an ideal
education are:—
1. .Sympathetic and patient training of the very
young mind in the habit of observation and of
simple reasoning, leading ultimately to the recog-
nition of letter and figure shapes and their signi-
ficance when linked. This work cAn best be done
in the home and by Kindergarten methods.
2. The leading of the young mind into fit paths
of reading. Up to the age of 14 the child in the
primary school should be educated with the idea
of the general development of its mind, the culti-
vation of ‘ ‘ taste ” in some degree, the inculcation
of some ideas of moral philosophy, a sound train-
ing in the simple truths with regard to the duties
of civic relations in life.
3. The ‘ ‘ finishing ” of the child from 14 to 17
(or in some cases 20), teaching it the particular
facts of the calling to which it has an aptitude—
the future mechanic a trade, the scientist mathe-
matics and other sciences, the lawyer or writer
history and philosophy.
That’s the ideal. But what infinite cost and
labor would be necessary for its fulfilment !
Teachers would need to be the very best minds in
the community (and presumably need to be paid
accordingly (classes would have to be reduced (on an
average) to one-fourth their present size ; and the
home-life of infants would need to be drastically
reformed. Evidently the ideal is unattainable,
unless this or a future generation of humanity
should emulate the parental altruism of some of
the insects and give up its whole life to the rear-
ing of its progeny.
But whilst the ideal may be, for the present,
unattainable, some approach can lx? made to it,
and must be made if modern civilisation
is to continue. Perhaps no better beginning could
be made than in the inclusion of some simple
lessons in “good citizenship” as part of every
school’s programme. Then steady effort should
be made to raise the teacher’s standard and to
reduce the class’s number. The one great mistake
to be avoided is to fall in with the cant cry now so
common for more “practical” education. The
first necessity of education is to make the pupil a
good citizen —a moral animal with some knowledge
of his (or her) political duties, and a capacity for
finding within himself resources of recreation. To
fit him to earn money is, after all, a secondary
matter. Better an “educated ” road-laborer than
a fact-crammed lawyer or doctor. In truth, it .
might almost be said that that system of educa-
tion is best which pays least regard to training
the money-making capacities. Thus. Smith, navvy,
able to earn but 7s. a day, but taking some in-
telligent interest in books, thinking seriously over
the politics of his country, rejoicing, however
vaguely, in the gold of the sunset as he walks
from his work, is a better product for the com-
munity than, say, Thos. Bent, land-boomer and
Minister of the Crown, or even Andrew Carnegie,
plutocrat and humbug.
“ The Making of Citizens,” by R. E. Hughes,
is the latest of Walter Scott’s science series, and
contains much of interest to the educational
reformer.
♦
“ King Dick Abroad ” (by E. F. Hiscocks), pub-
lished by M’Kee and Co., Wellington, M.L. A
series of bright and comical cartoons on Mr.
Seddon’s visit to Europe by an artist whose work
shows much humor and vigor.
This from France:
The conflict over the erection of Renan’s statue at
Tr6gnier has been complicated by a pastoral from the
Bishop of St. Brieuc, aiiiToutrfiing that' if ’thehridnument
be unveiled he will suppress the annual procession of the
“Pardon,” which, apart from its religious significance, is
a lucrative source of revenue to the town and neighbor-
hood.
As the procession is “a lucrative source of re-
venue,” the author of “ The Life of Jesus ” will
probably have to do without his statue. Philoso-
phy must always yield place to cash.
J*
London Daily Chronicle has unearthed another
rhym for “ month ” in a poem on the Autumn by
a University professor at Glasgow—
Degenerate heirs belie the master-month.
And yet the purse of glory is not stinted ;
In scarlet goes the year and Sidon-tinted,
And golden lacquered like the meloionth.
The “ meloionth ” is the golden beetle of the
Attic poets.
Critic Brooke on Browning’s color sense :
He sees the wild tulip blow out its great red bell; he
sees the clear bubble of blood at its tip ; he sees the spike
of gold which burns deep in the bluebell's womb ; the
corals that, like lamps, disperse thick red flame through
the dusk green universe of the ocean ; the lakes which,
when the morn breaks,
Blaze like a wyvern flying round the sun ;
the woodland brake whose withered fern Dawn feeds with
gold ; the moon carried off at sunrise in purple Are ; the
larch-blooms, crisp and pink"; .the sanguine heart of the
pomegranate ; the filberts russet-sheathed and velvet-
capped ; the poppies crimson to blackness ; the red fans
of the butterfly falling on the rock like a drop of fire from
a brandished torch ; the star-fish, rose-jaevnth to the
finger-tips; and a hundred other passionate seizures of
color.
“Arrow”: “F.M.” (8., 25/10/’O2), re healthy
Australian history, omits to mention that the
early Australian convict system, though a dis-
graceful way of beginning a new country, and
naturally objected to when the infant settlements
got on their feet, had its bright side. The convict
labor, utilised at a time when it was impossible to
procure free settlers in decent numbers, put
Sydney and Hobart fiO years ahead of the position
they would have occupied without it. Marcus
Clarke’s “For the Term of His Natural Life”
exhibits only one side of the shield. What would
the present descendants of Margaret Catchpole
have been but for the System ? Surely it was the
most beneficent ever invented for convicts. The
good-conduct men, instead of languishing in a
dismal English gaol for a period and then return-
ing to a life of crime, whether originally of crimi-
nal instincts or not, led an open-air existence of
comparative freedom, and had opportunities,
often availed of, to become prosperous colonists.
The horrors of Norfolk Island and Port Arthur
were reserved for the irreclaimables. Thousands
of well-behaved convicts in N.S.W. and V.D.L.
passed through years of healthy employment
without once tasting the lash. Much the same
state of things obtains to-day in Siberia, where a
large proportion of the convicts live in perfect
liberty, with the exception that they are not per-
mitted to leave their settlements.
Philip Wellby and Co. will publish Mr. Arthur
Adam’s new poem, “The Nazarene,” on goo
terms. It is said to be an ambitious effort.


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
SYDNEY.
NTDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
M‘DOXJG-A.LL BROS., S Spring Street, Sydney.
Z. L. & M.A. Co., Ltd., Australia and Hew Zealand : Strachan, Cheedle & Co., Adelaide; J. B. Curran, Hobart.
Kangaroo,
Wallaby, .
Rabbit,
Opossum
SEND ALL SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
STTXJIVrESY,
The Leading Salesmen. Lull Values and Quick lietuvns.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMOMT-
Sole Charge : 3 Per Cent, to the Growers
We are the Only Selling Broken who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
*X‘O COMPSTITIOKT.
WINES The Bed Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OR MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
BY
“Steele Rudd.’
Cant B Beat
Briar Root Pipes
Guab^ teed
NOT TO
CRACK
OR
wm
LATEST" 1 ' MOST
UP TO DATE SHAPES
pgICE |/,
By Post
h
Quality not better in a G-uinea Pipe.
<atiaraot€€.
Should any of our Celebrated C. 8.8. Pipes crack or burn a new one will
be exchanged for it immediately on application.
When Ordering) Please Mention Shape of Pipe Required.
C. 8.8.
c.b.b:
0.8.8. Pipe, Sterling Silver Mount, 2/6
0.8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, with Ster-
ling Silver Mount, polished Vulcanite
Mouthpiece, in Morocco Leather
Case, 4/• each.
0.8.8. Meerchaum Pipe, guaranteed
genuine, Sterling Silver Screw, Best
Quality Mouthpiece, Morocco Gold-
lined Case, 21/- each.
C. 8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, Sterling
Silver Mounted Rim .and Band, in
Morocco Gold-lined Leather Case,
8/6 each.
0.8.8. Presentation Companion, con-
taining two Silver Mounted, hand-
finished Pipes, Superior Quality
Mouthpieces, Red Morocco Gold-
lined Case, 15/6 each.
C. 8.8.
c.b.b;
fXOMoFBLAD£\
SffOWUVG GUARD'
Use the
Can't-B-Beat
Safety Razor
Shave every morning with
absolute ease, comfort,
and security . . .
Shaving
with ordinary
razors is not
easy for anybody. It
takes months, yes, years of
practice, and few during
the period escape many
and serious cuts. Even
with experience, despite
Particularly Useful at Sea. care, cuts may beinflicted.
PRICE COMPLETE, in Case .. .. ss. 9d.
In Leather Case, with Extra Blade .. Bs. 9d.
EXTRA BLADES.. 2s. 3d.
Every Razor Guaranteed and Set ready for use.
TOILET REQUISITES—Lowest Price at . . .
SjNir
HOLLOW
GROUND
Gan’t-B-Beat
Razors are manufactured from
the very finest English Razor
Steel, and warranted ground by the moat expert
workmen in the world.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, J-inch .. 48. 9d.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, f-inch .. 68. 3d.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, |-inch .. 6s. 9d.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, |-inch .. 68. 3d.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, with ivory handle.. 108. 6d.
Presentation Case—containing Two
Can’t-B-Beat Razors, ivory handles .. 218.
C. Brown & Sons’ Hair-Clippers, 5s each. Victory
Cream Shaving Swap, 3d tablet. Shaving Brushes,
6d, 9d, Is, 1s 6d, 2s, 2s 6d, Bs, 8s 6d each.
Strnns “ The Victory,” 2s each. Cant-B-Beat
ouupo. Razor Strop, recommended by all the
leading hairdressers, 3s 6d each. Satisfaction
guaranteed or money returned.
MICK SIMMONS, haymarkTt,' SYDNEY
WHY WE USE NO DRUGS. *^|
BECAUSE THEY ARE AN UNNECESSARY EXPENSE, and a useless auxiliary to ELECTRICAL treatment
Be.ause twenty years’ experience in the use of Electricity has taught us that all CHRONIC FUNCTIONAL AILMENIS
caionlybe cured by a NATURAL AID; that DRUGS weaken rather than enhance the value of the ELEGIRIG
CURRENT as a curative.
We know that the life of each organ, each nerve, depends upon a hidden vital force, and we know that ELEC-
TRICITY is that force. If each nerve cell in your body is full of NERVE FORCE (Electricity) you can have no weakness.
To the man or woman with LAME BACK, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, LUMBAGO, NERVE EXHAUS-
TION, or any CHRONIC AILMENT, we can offer you a Sure and Certain Cure. _ Long ago you passed the stage where
medicine was of any value, and now your only chance of regaining strength lies in using
§r. Hs[ai|Silii’B Electric lift
It infuses New Life into the Nerves \tfhile you sleep. It expands
the tissues, and develops the organs, Cures the Worst cases of
Weakness in three months. Don’t let anyone induce you to take
drugs. Drop them entirely, and you’ll thank us for thus urging you.
Gentlemen, —The first night I wore your Belt I slept splendidly,
and have improved wonderfully since. In fact, I can eat any-
thing, do anything, and sleep anywhere. Nothing in the way of
drugs did uie any good before. Wishing you every success, and
trusting that other sufferers will procure one of your Belts, as
lam sure they will never regret it.—l remain, yours gratefully,
MITTAGONG, N.S.W. R. J. BARB."
The Dr. McLaughlin Co. August 28th, 1902.
Sirs, —Since I have been wearing one of your Electric Belts I
feel quite well, my food agrees with me, and I have no rushing of
sour water to my mouth now, as formerly, in fact, I feel better
all over.
Since I have had your Electric Belt I feel a new man, and get
up in the morning as fresh as a daisy. Yours very truly,
KORRUMBURRA, VICTORIA. S. O. BRAY.
Notice.
If you have an old style Belt thatdisappointed
you, send it in, and we will allow you for it in
exchange. We do this not because the old
bettis of any use, for it is not. But we wish to show people can-
didly that there is only one real electric Belt to be had, and that
we have nothin" in common with concerns selling a cheap, worth-
less article. (No consulting fees to be paid).
All Medical Skill Failed but the Belt Cured.
30 Underwood Street, Paddington,
The Dr. MoLauohlin Co. September 4th, 1902.
Sirs, —After thirty years' suffering from injury to my back and
kidneys, the result of a fall from my horse, your Electric Belt has
done for me what the best medical skill had failed to do.
I can now recommend the Belt to every sufferer. I am 60
3’ears of age. Yours very truly, ELIZABETH ROSE.
if
gA 'J
»>
m
WA
m.
ILn
TuF : Dr. McLaughlin Go.
85 Hi Big-street, SYDUEY.
Melbourne Office—l67E Swanston Street.
Frgc Book.
Fot the benefit of all persons interested in this G-rand Remedy, we publish a Beautifully Illustrated Book, giving cuts,
and showing how we apply Electricity in all CHRONIC AILMENTS. It gives also many names of people cured. Write
for it. You may find the names of some of your friends in it. SENT FREE POST PAIL).
Call and have a Free Test. See the Ease and Comfort with which Our Belt can be used. Don’t delay, byt call to-day and get a Book.
It’s full of good things a sick man iikes to see. Consultation and advice either by post or personally is absolutely free. Hours—9 a.m. to 8.30 p.m.
Liberal Advances,
Accurate Valuations,
When required.
WOOL
Selling' Brokers.
PROMPT
RETURNS A
SPECIALITY.
HARRISON, JONES & DEVLIN, Ltd.
Special Attention to
details.
Weights carefully
taken.
having over 30 Years
Experience Conduct
All Wool Sales.
Offices and Stores:
Circular Quay
Sydney.
t'HE
‘PLUM ’
T N £
THE
‘PLUM’
ENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years,
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
ground, rings
exact kind of
can testify to
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 78. OtL
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Frick
/Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6tl; l’air, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 2IS.
/Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful O.ise, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney
Sole Eyes! Blight!
USED 300 YEARS.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
Never fails. Restores Eyelashes .
HAD FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT.”
Ask your Chemist for this little hook.
CAPILI.A
HAIR
The Wonder of the Age
ALL CHEMISTS
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA,


TATTERSALL’S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
NOW OPEN.
Sandhurst C.
100,000
To Tattersall,
Please allot me __
Name_
Address.
Nov. 26.
Subscribers at 5.
-shares in the above.
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“ TATTERS ALL”) STILL
CON TIN EES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend
or acquaintance in lIOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the appli-
cation and securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Honey can also be paid through,any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please
request Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. doing business with Tasmania.
Newcastle Tattersall’s Cup
DEC. 13.
To Tattersall,
Please allot me..
shares in the above.
Name-
-50,000 Subscribers at 5.
Address
t •
• •
£
Perth C.
Run at Perth, W.A.
Dec. 30th.
To Tattersall,
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name-
Address
£
Summer C
To Tattersall,
Please allot
| Dec. 30.
... .*/*
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
- ■ shares in the above.
■ i v: ;3 ium«
%
; % <::?■
- '" v '
a Address .


A great many
people want A
long,
heavy
hair, but
how to
get it,
that is
what puzzles
them. The
fact is, the
hair needs a
little help
now and then.
The roots re-
quire feeding.
5^
J
»T.
vWjXt
w
s,
When the hair is starved, it stops
growing, loses its lustre, falls out,
turns gray. Ayer’s Hair Vigor is a
hair-help. It makes the hair grow,
stops it from falling, and completely
cures dandruff.
Ayer's Hair Vigor
If your hair is fading or turning
gray, begin at once with Ayer’s Hair
Vigor. It will positively restore color
to your gray hair* all the full, rich
color it had in early life.
As a hair-dressing you will certainly
like it, for it keeps the hair soft and
glossy and prevents it from splitting
at the ends.
Ho not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES: Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24m., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Onlv one address : 110 WILLIAM-
ST., cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
Cable trams will stop at door. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hairwork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
I'll Try It."
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
»to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
The Hetutt.
CRAIG
House,
SOLE AGENTS.
& AITKEN, N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A GIFT for the LADIES.
We make this
SPECIAL OFFER
to Advertise our
Ostrich
Tips.
5/'
The Bunch,
Worth 10/6.
TWO VERY SUPERIOR TIPS, with
OSPREYS, in Black, White or Cream.
Post Free. Send Postal Notes.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Bourke & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
S€NP US
YOUR PHOTOGRAPH.
JF you send a Photograph of yourself (or friend) to
Mr. Mark Blow, Crown Studios, Sydney,
he will reproduce from it a very beautiful and
Artistically Finished
Permanent Enlargement
In Black and White, equalling a rich Steel Plate
Engraving, handsomely mounted on an Indian-tinted
Plate, sunk mount, and as good in every way as Enlarge-
ments now being supplied at from 30/- to 50/- each, and
will carefully pack it and send it Carriage Paid to any
address in Australia, Tasmania, or New Zealand for 10/6.
Your Photo. Returned with Order.
POPULAR SONGS
8y....
Eminent
Composers
“If I were Loved by Thee’’ .. .. Piccolomini
“ Breaking the Ice ” Pontet
«<parted but llnchanged ” .. J. Sewell Southgate
“Song of Love and Death ” Barnett
OF ALL MUSICSELLERS.
W. PAXTON & GO., London, Melbourne
The Roman
Hair
Restorer
Produces Brown and Black Hail’.
Price 1/6 ; by post, 2/3.
An inexpensive and
certain preparation for
renewing and restoring
r to its original color the
hair of the head, beard
and whiskers.
T.are-elv used by the Roman ladies for preserving their
magnificent tresses. Nourishes the roots and removes
dandruff; increases the quantity, and renders it glossy
and supple ; does not stain the skin nor soil the linen. If
your hair is falling off or turning grey, use this.
J oaUTION.—This being different from most prepara-
tions, other kinds should be refused.
JAMES BRINSMEAD and CO., Chemists, ST. HILDA.
All Chemists sell it.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Next Distribution of the Profits at
31st December, 1902,
Policies Issue* before the close of this year will share in the Bonos to be then allotted
r . , ,> ,■ .. ■. narticipating policy holders for the single year 1901 was £.OOO, (Zo,
T l being'the*largest arnount ever allotted by the Society in one year. (AlTbonuses vest immediately
on policies attaining A.M.P. Society should note the above carefully, and
Per se°nd S direct or through any'of the Society’s Agents, so as to reap
. the bel \ efit of tlnS FiT'Ghairmin • The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
“"SJTSX? J ’^T T WA™ER E r q j: Abbott Esq B ; The Hop. * J Black, M.L.C. ;F. B. Winchcombe, Esq., M.P,
" ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
yf, / vuttiutfV*
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10®-
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-sb.,
SYDNEY.
£2T Send for a
Catalogue. -
Bent Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles.
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £8 lOs.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES
kX
im
m m
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales—
M. RUTTY & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
j. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaida
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland —
Thos. Brown & Sons, Ld.
| Brisbane
3 Burns, Phllp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin & Co.
Dunedin, ftemngton
and Christohuroh.
WINCHESTER
II MODEL'I9OO SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE II
•m.
S m
m
HIS rifle sells at a price within reach of almost every-
body’s pocketbook, but it is madewiththe same care and
exactness as Winchester rifles that cost five times as
much. The name “Winchester” on this rifle is a
guarantee in itself of its quality. The Model 1900 is a
hammerless take-down, and can be taken apart easily
and quickly. It is made with an 18-inch round barrel,
fitted with open front and rear sights. It shoots .22 Short and .22
Long Rim-Fire cartridges, and Bullet Breech caps. These cartridges cost
so little that one can afford to shoot as many times as he likes as often
as he likes. Some makes of .22 Caliber rifles are a few pence cheaper,
but they are a great deal cheaper in quality than they are in price.
We don’t try to see how cheap we can make this rifle, but how goo .
for sale by all ironmongers
WE STOCK ALL .... JWINCHESTER GOODS.
IVTLEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd.
ELIZABETH ST., fIELBOURNE ; GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
The Australian Commission Agency Co.
IS IN CONSTANT COMMUNICATION WITH
«t TATTERS ALL,” care of GEO. ADAMS, HOBART.
Write or call. When writing enclose
Addressed Envelope and Stamp.
Offices: 101 Swanston St„ flelbourne.
NON-INJURIOUS
HANP-MAPE.
TO THE THROAT.
WO PUBTY TOBACCO.
CIGARETTES.
(Virginia Grade.)
ABSOLUTELY UNIQUE IN QUALITY.
S. HOFFNUNQ & CO., Merchants, Pitt=st., Sydney.
Sole Manufacturers : ARDATH
TOBACCO CO., 44 Worship Street, London, England.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Bogan Dan.
For thirty odd years Dan has camped
Among the Bogan bends,
And with Matilda up has tramped
A track that never ends;
And since upon that course he’s spent
Half life’s allotted span,
To every river resident
He’s known as Bogan Dan.
He bears himself with lordly pride,
Yet seldom owns a bob,
For though a hundred squatters chide,
He’ll never take a job.
E’en when at times he helped a few
Among the whaler clan,
They offered no reward who knew
The creed of Bogan Dan.
’Twas carved upon a bloodwood bole,
The blood-red oath he swore :
“ On land or sea, for gilt nor dole,
For man I’ll work no more ! ”
Man worked to live and lived to work
It was a senseless plan ;
So “’long the streams where codfish lurk,
I’ll live,” said Bogan Dan.
While up the southern bank he goes,
Six merry months will glide,
And six months more he kicks his toes
Adown the northern side.
Through flood and drought, it matters not,
He ends where he began,
And camps upon the same old spot —
The home of Bogan Dan.
The squatters dust his ration-bags,
Remark he’s going gray,
And ask about some station wags
Five hundred miles away.
They tell him when the holes are dry,
And where to fill his can ;
And smilingly they say “Good-bye
Till next year, Bogan Dan.”
He’s welcomed at the bushmen’s camps,
And round their glowing fires
He tells the gleanings of his tramps,
The latest “ mulga wires ” ;
When shearing starts, and sheds cut-out,
Who’s married Nell or Nan ;
And who is Smith’s new rouseabout,
They learn from Bogan Dan.
He knows the station-runs and men
The Bogan country thro’,
And talks of ‘ Greenhide Jack,” and Ben,
The newchum jackeroo;
Where old Bill went who got the sack,
Who works for “Long” M'Cann,
And stirring yarns of white and black,
Are told by Bogan Dan.
The half-worn hats and soleless boots,
Cast off by Bill and Jim,
Together with discarded suits,
Are good enough for him ;
And if occasion’ly he cooks
Some wood-grubs in a pan,
Or carnies roasts in lonely nooks,
“ They fill, ” says Bogan Dan.
His swag is filled with odds and ends
He’s cadged along the road,
Wmch he will sell to passing friends,
Perchanee to ease his load ;
While some he gives to fellow-tramps,
Decrepit, old and wan,
Who cannot reach the sundown camps
As soon as Bogan Dan.
So on past station-dam and tank,
And cross where runs divide,
He plods on up the southern bank,
And down the northern side ;
And settlers wonder now, as past
He goes with swag and can,
What well-known camp will see the last
Of poor old Bogan Dan.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
Haulin’ Firewood.
I’m cartin’ firewood billets —yellow box and iron-
bark —
On the soggy tracks and boggy with a waggon
rather old,
And I’m going pretty constant from the dawn of
day till dark,
And the load upon the waggon is the limit it will
hold.
I sit upon the billets with the reins a-hanging
slack,
And my fancy goes a-roamin’ in erratic way
until
An interferin’ tree-limb scrapes me down upon
the track,
While the stolid team’s a-stagger to the old saw-
mill.
Oh ! I wonder at the courage of the horses that I
drive,
All broken-kneed and scraggy and beyond the
age of graft ; .
And I’ll swear the off-side leader is the leanest
thing alive.
And the bloomin’ echo answers to the roarer
in the shaft.
But it’s rush ’em where the sand is, and it s
wallop through the sludge,
And it’s curse ’em like an engine when they re
scratching up a hill, ,
While the plucky beggars struggle till they re
hardly fit to budge— ...
A-haulin’ in the firewood to the old sawmill.
If you’ve got the strength of Samson, and are
healthy as a dog, . ,
And care no more for comfort than a sturdy
kangaroo, ~ , ,
And have grown to be as callous as a blessed red-
work for any wages, there’s a “ collar
here for you;
For the trade is hardly payin’, and its daily
getting worse, ,
And it takes a lot of muscle, and of bullockin and
To keep l the saw a-buzzin’; so it’s willin’ graft, of
course,
That satisfies the owner of the old sawmill. ~
VIC.
BEN SUN.


TTg&Tcn
SPOONER’S
==V::m
SPOONERS
*
*
|%r •** **••••»
lATENT LEATHER BOOTi
GLAZED KIQ&&*
*»«#»«
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and la.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
| SADDLE SOAP.
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
1 Etc., Era
•j Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
, Begin as
Motorman
New electric roads are being 1 built all the time,
requiring strong, intelligent, reliable
Young Hen for Motormen.
You might get such a position if you were
fitted for it, and, once in, there’s a chance to
rise. Our Correspondence Course in Electrical
Engineering teaches you the whole thing. We
teach also Steam and Mechanical Engineering,
Mechanical Drawing, Plumbing, Heating, Ven-
tilating.
Write for information and Handbook “ B"
American School of Correspondence, Boston,
l Mass. Sydney Address : Box 629, C.P.O. J
ON OUR SELECTION,”
By STEELE RUDD.
If
you
MEN
suffering from Varico-
cele, Atrophy, Weak-
ness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and packing), and
I will send
MEDICINE A FREE
FOR YOUR ISM DIVIDUAL CASE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which give back
strength of body and brain—not a free prescription
dodge, but a trial of my wonderful remedy free for
the asking.
Professor H. READ,
165 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers a. Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
lE3F“ Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
CRA.IG & AITKEN,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
EVERY JVIAN IS
More or less interested in the curative Dowers of
MEDICAL GALVANISM and the prope r method of
wonderful agent. Before purchasing
2 r s ? nd for our valuable FREE
BOOK entitled THE MODERN TREATMENT OB’
DISEASE BY ELECTRICITY.” It wUI tell
you ought to know, and may save you time, money
and disappointment. Address— *
ARTHUR HALE & SON,
44 Castlereagh Street, Bydney.
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE’S
fHLORODYNE.
Caution. Gonuine Chlorodyno,
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS
ASTHMA, BBOUCHITIS’
DIAKBHGEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—.
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
IIJE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS o»
Sept. 28, 1895, says;
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it and its general applicability to the
St»°. reSZZtZZ‘"’ im>k ‘* ilme “ tS l0r ""
GEIMTST^
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES
Address.— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
WOOL PRODUCE. GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
" Ltd., SYDNEY,
Coy
•9
A,CT i AS SELLIKTGr brokers ONLY.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a dause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
(lauding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
will be
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb :
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. arid
under
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing. Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
BALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, eta, HELD WEEKLY.
_ „ WHEAT.
Jl/very inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation hv t-hn
Ampie accommodation is provided. Three months free storagf isallowed! Circular are
e ncd giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
Company
sent when
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney
(Corner of
Clarence Street)
19, 21, 23 King Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES .
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pumps, Turbine Fans.
(Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
jWessrs. QREBNWOOD & BATLEY LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors, Pumps, etc
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
"——— —iwlnsulated Cables, Wires, Tapes, etc.
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AV ° ,D unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
Vigor and Strength for all who
“*“•—■ —— ° desire it.
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
COlIe ? ? f ,, Su u r ? eons - England, located in Melbourne
since 1886, has so perfected his method of treat,men! tw
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable cases."
Be the equal of vour fellow man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subiect of
“ otr ■ mt ° at “ ce ,or book ot w “ k '«™. •*. - £?£
Seek tile Truth., it coats Nothing!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, c o r. Russell & Collins Sts,, Melbourne.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
BMBRACMa
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Patrea.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNIC AT, TlfßMs „„ j . h
wmrnmm
women both in and out of manf.™ to the action of men and
anticipates a bright future . lnr i- No man or woman who
eloth-covered edition work C 7 t pl^ e , h
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE. 1 ™B'* 8 '*' 1
Speeches and Toasts rea.dv-made fr»i« «ii
everybody ; public-speaking made lsfidw*
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d y ’ 1 6d p t '
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Pinna n
Is; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete) 3 S 6dnoatp U H'
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is Marta lrt S 6d P oBfc ® d -
How TO BECOME A V P ENiRILO Q U,ST, post f re flT'
The Art of Wrestling Dost iq u Avr J, ? •* ,s *
Love and Parentage, 8d posted S Gambs » P ost 2 / 6
Modern Etiquette (Parties,Love, Dress etc 1
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster rl ’rf 'r n post -
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book or p™ n 3 6d- ,
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d (Dreamer 8
How to Dance, new work, Is posted r 1 amitth ■» «
Secret History of the Court of England' 16 w 1? 3d *
IDs Gaict (only P^*h* A j^ E^*^"^'3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, R. 0.l i os’,"’ hlstory) ’ ls 3(1
°’7S *£**%%■ “■> ™ P S™„»e. ls M
tt P o yy ea - Carlisle s Freemasonry 3s 9d Hosted
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d po S P t free
p™,™ r , ea ® Heads (Jas. Coates), is 6d posted
Chevassb s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest sones
C w r 1 HoW T 0 Play Billiards, Is 3d 8 ’
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea nns *«i
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted
How TO Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. * Sappho
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted ’ '
L Su “« B °™' A 5,,,.
Rt "' E AND How T 0 u se It, Is 6d post
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d
Nervousness and Its Curb, Is 2d posted. "
“’s PA T Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages
Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d. P
Moore s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic
pag:es ’ bound, 10s 6d posted. ’
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
J° L ® AIRB ’s Romances, 2s posted.
TiiEArF T oF p? NGS ( l vor t c ? 3and music complete), Is 6d.
Age ° f Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted
Send for my Illustrated Big Book
Catalogue-post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
IrW
Dr. J. W. GIBBS'
. . Electric Massage Rollers
„ for use on Face and Body
NEtJRAT R p V t? US HEADACHES,
•NEURALGIA and RHEUMATISM
a specific. Removes Wrinkles
r> G °i d) 21 /‘ Silver, 16/-
1 ost Free. Pamphlets Free.
AMERICAN AGENCY COMPANY,
Box 440, G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
Sen
Rupture
| Dr. Pierce’s Electric Truss
is a Marvel. Nothing like
- it. Best Retainer on earth
and a Genuine Cure for Rupture.
World-renowned. 27 improvem’ts.
If ruptured, send a stamp, (any
uir.MFTir _ for new “Booklet No. 1.”
MAGNETIC E. TBIJSS CO., 206 Post Street, San
Prancisco.U.S, A.; W. H. Sob 16 Ct-, Agents, Stbhbt.
f
■FiyjD
jNPIGEjTIOfI
6,
~GOUT V
PILLS.
F °R GOUT,
RHEUMATISM.
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pkout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by aM
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
ASTH MA CURE
GRIMAUU'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Fop Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
ORIMAULT <& Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists.
NOTICE
’ sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
[ Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
1 Limbs.
1 The Old Reliable English Remedy •
; PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
1 Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
, parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys 1
all Parasites of Head or Body. <
SOLD IN TWO SIZES, 9d. & Is. 6d. (
N.B. —lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S ,
LOI lON, and no disappointment can occur, i
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman, !
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all *
Chemists in the Australian Colonies. i
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
0& RX CO RO’S
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope ’
Agents for Australasia —PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
F. H. Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
(Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. 0
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St v Melbourne.


A Qu
»»
®@ ® ®
mi
-
%
Dyspeptic Emesis
A LONG PERIOD OF SUFFERING.
A Permanent Cure in Newtown.
The Case of Mrs. C. WALKER.
(For the “Independent.”)
A subject necessarily inviting to all, and
the discussion of which has of late years
employed many able pens, was recently
touched upon by Mrs. Gertrude Walker, of
No. 17 George-street, Newtown, when chat-
ting with our special representative.
“It is in reference to the most effective
means of gettipg rid of one’s personal
enemies that I wish to speak to you,” said
Mrs. Walker, “ and I think that I am
entitled to speak on the subject because my
liver was out of order for a long time and
my sufferings were extraordinary. I am
twelve years older since my troubles began
with an attack of neuralgia, which I
endured for three months without abate-
ment. The terrific pains lodged in the back
of my head at first, then they affected my
gums, which became very sore, making it
impossible to properly masticate my food,
ana tl.*m the tortures shot up to my eyes.
Later on there was not a part of my head
which escaped the maddening agonies of
neuralgia, and often I thought they would
drive me out of my mind.”
“ I expect you got but very little sleep ? ”
enquired the writer.
“ Sleep was denied me altogether,” re-
sponded Mrs. Walker. “Often I have paced
the floor for hours when everybody else has
been fast asleep, and when morning came I
was not fit for anything. My nerves were
all of a shake, nervousness having such a
hold upon me that I was afraid of my own
shadow, and when a knock came to the door
it caused me to tremble so violently that I
could scarcely move. I was afraid at every
turn, an idea being in my mind continually
that somebody was standing behind me,
though when I looked round there was
nobody, and I could only reproach myself
for my folly. Still, I could not help feeling
timid, and to be so every moment of the day
had the effect of making me fretful and
despondent. I lost flesh till I became as
thin as a skeleton, for which I blame my
poor appetite and the trouble I had in keep-
ing my food down. My stomach was in a
dreadfully weak condition, a fact which
accounted for the frequent fits of vomiting
I had, for it was all the same in effect what
kind of food I took—it would not stay
down. Many a time I thonght I was going
to be suffocated by the sense of oppression
in my for when it was at its worst I
had to gasp for breath in a most alarming
way. I could not make out what was
wrong a little distance below my neck.
There seemed to be something pricking me
there—a very tan talising sensation—although
at other times the pain was as great as if I
had strained myself. I cannot imagine
anything more vile than the taste which was
in my mputh, and to make it mo«e un-
pleasanffv still there was a coating on my
tongue which made me feel quite sick. On
arising from bed I was distressed by the aches
running through my legs and across my
loins, for they set at defiance any attempt I
might make to do any light work about the
house, although at the best of times I was
So easily overpowered by exhaustion that I
had to let matters take their own course.”
11 Did you obtain advice from any
source ? ”
“ I should rather think so. A doctor
from Sydney was doing his best for me, yet
I cannot say there was anything satisfactory
resulting from his treatment. lam sure his
medicines did not benefit me, because my
internal troubles multiplied week by week.
If I walked a few yards I was brought to a
standstill by an attack of giddiness, and on
when I walked a little
distance in the garden a mysterious sensa-
tion come over me which made it appear
that the further I walked the further the
fence seemed to be away. And then my
heart gave rise to serious reflections. The
slightest excitement or exertion always caused
it to flutter and throb, but even when I was
sitting still it used to suddenly start pal-
pitating with such vengeance that its
beatings could be heard quite distinctly.
The sharp pains which ran through my heart
from time to time also lent eolor to the idea
that it wasdiseased insome wayor other, and
as the physic I was taking did not alleviate
my sufferings in the least, it appeared
certain that I was going to be an invalid
for life. With my yellow skin and my
features distorted by the physicial agony
and the anxiety of mind I was enduring, I
looked as if my days were almost numbered,
but now, thank Heaven, there is a great
difference in my appearance, and although
I am over thirty years of age, I feel as young
and active as a girl of sixteen.”
“Can you account for such a wonderful
transformation. ”
“ Easily. Clements Tonic did it, and only
for an old friend who told me about that
medicine I might still be^suffering, or per-
haps be dead, as nothing else could cure me.
Several days passed before I felt any better
by taking Clements Tonic, and I was
beginning to think that it was no benefactor
of mine, but I kept on with it and then I
commenced to feel revived. The neuralgic
pains, I noticed, were dying away, and then
they suddenly stopped; but although this
was a great relief, I was more concerned
about my internal organs, and I was in a
state of painful suspense as to whether
Clements Tonic was equal to the occasion.
Sure enough it was. I became regular in
all my habits, freed from the unpleasant
taste in my mouth, my tongue was cleansed,
and I had an appetite to enjoy my food.
The wind which used to arise from my
stomach did not form now, and I never had
the least inclination to vomit my food. I
thought this was a remarkably satisfactory
test of the merits of Clements Tonic,
and when my first purchase was exhausted
I got more, as I meant to get quite well
whilst I had the chance. From that time
onwards I gained strength by leaps and
bounds. As regularly as I lay down to rest,
I had calm and refreshing sleep, and I
did appreciate it after passing so many
wretched nights not long before. The
freedom with which I could draw my breath
was evidence that my digestive organs were
being benefited by the use of Clements
Tonic, and as my heart had resumed its
normal pulsation, without ever pßining me
either, I knew that it was not diseased, but
that my anxious fears had been induced by
the bad state of my liver. For my nervous
system there was nothing I had taken which
could approach Clements Tonic for general
excellence, as my nerves were left without
a tremor and I could walk anywhere in the
daik without any fear. By adhering
to the use of Clements Tonic for some weeks
I became as healthy as I have ever been, and
for several years my constitution has been
perfectly sound. If these admisssons will
assist people similarly afflicted, you may
publish them in any way you please.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Gertrude Walker, of 17 George-street.
Newtown, in the State of New South Wales,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and sin
cerely declare that 1 have carefully read the annexed
document, consisting of five folios, and consecutively
numbered from one to five, and that it contains and
is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full per-
mission to publish in any way my statements—
which I give voluntarily, without receiving any
payment; and I make this solemn declaration
conscientiously believing the same to he true, and
by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Newtown this seven
teenth day of February, one thousand nine hundred
and two, before, me r ™
FREDERICK JONES, J.p
CLOTHED WITH AIR
AERTEX” CELLULAR
Cellular Dress Shirt.
Fitted best Belfast Linen Fronts
and Guffs, 0.8. or 0.F., one stud.
Cellular Cotton Body—
-6s 6d to 8s 6d
Cellular Lisle Body-
-93 6d and 10s 6d
Cellular Short-Front Shirt
for every-day wear.
Open behind, 2in. linen wrists—
-6s 6d, 6s 6d.
Open front or behind, square
cuffs— 6s 6d, 7s 6d
SHIRTS
Cellular Tennis Shirt.
With Collar and Pocket. The most
comfortable for all out-door sports
of all kinds. A great variety of s
patterns stocked. .
Plain Colors, 4s. 6d. to 7s. 6d.
Fancy Designs, 7s. 6d. to Ils. 6d. '
I Cellar Day Shirts*
Silk neckbands and soft wrists.
White agd-Self Colors, 4s to 7s 6d
Fancy Designs, 7s 6d to 9s 6d.
I
I Cellular Neglige Shirts.
;Soft fronts of plain or pleated
_'t 'Cellular Cloth ; wrists, French
Print, Linen, or Cellular. Recom-
mended for Golf, Cycling, &c.
' White body, 7s 6d ; colored, 8s 9d
Aertex Cellular Fabric is the ideal form of body covering, possessing all the necessary
hygienic qualities, and being also most comfortable and of attractive appearance, and for those
reasons is recommended by the Medical Faculty wherever introduced.
Illustrated Catalogues, Samples, etc., post free, on application.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.,
73 and 75 KINO STREET,
Sole Agents in N.S.W.
SYDNEY
The VOLCANIC
DERATING
MACHINE
w\\
uiiiittl>Uia«ii ilituuilil » m >i l IliHii n mu 1 ni u I
W. JAMES, Proprietor,
A Great
Saving
..TO
HOTELKEEPERS,
CAFE PROPRIETORS, ETC ,
DERATED WATERS of the Highest Quality
produced with the utmost rapidity
WITHOUT SKILLED LABOR.
Absolutely the best and simplest
Machine in the market. |XT' Price
TUBES CONTAIN 57tbs. GAS.
CAPACITY OF WATER CYLINDERS, 10Gai.s.
VALVE ACTS AUTOMATICALLY.
Write for Descriptive Pamphlets with Testimonials
from people who have used the Machine fcr years.
Office: 101 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
Depot : 130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
GOOD
HAIR FOR ALL!
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
S3T For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
&3T For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & 00.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT
HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Coll ins-street, MELBOURNE
S. FREEMAN * SONS fJMITEP
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING" POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EX 111 ACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
head office: WYNTASD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
ENNESS
CURED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
«p“See my proposition to the Government,
November 8 th, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Clare for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
No restri ctions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free,
W. LANGSTON, m.r.c.s.. Eng..
68 Russell St., Melbourne.
EVERT MAN
QUFFERINC from DEBILITY and WEAKNESS should
send for a valuable Pamphlet explaining how all
Nervous and Organic Derangements may be success-
fully treated withoutstomach medication. The method
is easy and pleasant, and will effect a perfect and per-
manent cure. Sent in a plain sealed envelope free of
charge. E. NORTON, 59 &60 Chancery Lane, London
gj Eno. Over 30 years’ continuous success. ’
BLOW PLIES.
The ONLY destroyer— The “ Buzs"
Window Trap, withFaulding*s
Insect Powder. All stores.


II
Sr
Hi
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Qo.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only and
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
GORDON MARE, Secretary.
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
28 Years in the Establishment.
HAIR BRUSHES.
Silver Hall-marked, with Best Hand-drawn
Bristles. We have 50 different Patterns in
the very latest Art Designs—
-17/Q, 20/-, 22/6, 25/-, 30/-, 35/- 40/-.
Best Silver-Plated .. .. 10/6,11/6,12/6.
We stock every description of Silver and
Plated Toilet Requisites.
forwarded on application.
Jewellers & Opticians
’ ff
go King ST,Sydney.
Kindly
Send
for our
Illustrated
Catalogue.
All Goods
forwarded
Post Free.
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
From
a
Medicinal
Point
of
View
Hennessy’s
Brandy
is
Unequalled.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
CD
r*
r<y
V
ft
fc’H
ai
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica
tion to The Manager.
£JJL
i m
&
WIGHTMAN’S.
BEACONSFIELD HOTEL
Beaconslield Parade, St. Kilda, Melbourne.
FIRST-CLASS ACCOMMODATION for Visitors and Per-
manent Boarders. Situated in the healthiest part of
St. Kilda, facing the sea. Hot and Cold Sea Baths. Fifteen
minutes from Melbourne—tram or train. Reasonable Tariff.
Special terms for families and permanent boarders.
Telephone 65 Windsor Exchange.
A ROYAL LIQUEUR.
PETER F. HEERING, Copenhagen,
A .„_ CHERRY BRANDY
The King of England; The Royal Danish and Imperial Russian Courts.
SWIFT AND OOIVIPANY, 7 Spring Street, Sydney, Australasian Agents.
ACHINERY
MERCHANTS
M
WHOLESALE IRONMONGERS,
And Importers of
Engines, Boilers, Pumps, Wood-
working Machines, Engineers’
Supplies, Blacksmith and
Coachbuilders’ Requisites, Pipes
and Fittings, Boiler Tubes, Gun
Metal and Brassware for Steam
and Water, Household and
Builders’ Ironmongery, Agri-
cultural Implements, Horse
Gears, Chaff Cutters, &o.
£
!a
Mach iff cay Store.
jje.AD
r FJC-c.
SfUSBAN
n
mi
SMELLIE
Bulk
Store.
\alle.V
North Q
UEtMSLAKD BrAMcK
Townsville.
I
ill
North Queensland Warehouse:
Stanley & Sturt Sts., Townsville.
Also at
New Broad St. House, London, E.C.
AGENTS FOR
ROBEY & CO., Portable
Steam Engines,
W. B, HAIGH & C 0„ Saw-
mill Machinery.
G WYNNE’S Centrifugal Pumps
PEARN’S Manchester Steam
Pumps,
DUPLEX Steam Pumps.
SCOTT’S Steel Mining Ropes.
FRANK VIAL & SON Leather
Belting.
WAUKEGAN Barb Wire.
PLANET JR. Implements.
AER MOTOR Windmills.
KEROSENE OIL ENGINES.
To Smokers of High Class Mixture.
wills* ‘ VICE-REGAL "mure
(Registered.)
A Choice Blend of High Class and Carefully Selected TOBACCO.
Packed only in patent air-tight tins.
Manufactured in two grades—Medium and Full. Price, Is. per 2oz. Tin.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Voii. 23.— N0. 11S6
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1902.
Price 6d
THE STATE-DEBT OCTOPUS.
culte-d--
" Tie li V


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
,l Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS AFTER
Ist NOVEMBER , 1902
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques , Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J P.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in JllaeJc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions i under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, 22 Hout St., Capetown ; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon .—Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo,
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.
Hons Kong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
China.— -Brewer and Co., 31 Wanking Road, Shanghai.
7%uT!^itlleizai.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1902,
The Financial Situation.
The latest issue of Coghlan’s “ Statistics of
the Six States of Australia and Maoriland,”
which brings the figures up to June, 1902, is
an eloquent treatise on how to attain public
insolvency. All the States except Westralia
and Maoriland closed the year with a deficit,
and none of them can console itself with the
reflection that the deficit is an unavoidable
misfortune arising out of Federation or
drought, for the condition is chronic, and
almost as much a part of the regular order
of things as breakfast, or sunrise. Since
1880, Maoriland has had six years which
closed with a deficit ; Tasmania and Wes-
tralia have each had 10 years when ends
didn’t meet ; S.A., Queensland, and Vic-
toria have had each 11 years of deficit ; and
N.S.W. has had 16. That was according to
the paper computation of the Treasurers ;
but, as a matter of fact, every Australasian
State has had a deficit for about 18 out of
the last 20 years. Sometimes sufficient of it
was surreptitiously charged to loans to make
it look like a surplus ; sometimes there was
a large visible deficit, and also, behind that,
a large deficit which was paid out of loans,
and so wasn’t visible. No murky fowl ever
home to roost with such bitter regularity
as the deficit.
* • • *
This is the last year’s record, so far as it
can be traced—the visible shortages and the
ones that were judiciously concealed by hard
lying, and the rest :
Miscellaneous loan ex-
penditure, mostly
deficits concealed by Total
Visible. being charged to Deficit
Deficit. loans. (about).
N.S. Wales .. £12,749 £2,129,519 £2,142,268
Surplus.
Maoriland .. 237,924 1,509,772 1,271,848
Deficit.
Queensland .. 431,939 385,225 817,164
Victoria .. 401,448 334,695 736,143
S. Australia .. 222,316 222,445 444,761
Tasmania . 44,279 249,526 293,’805
Surplus.
Westralia .. 202,696 234,849 32,153
In the case of two States (Queensland and
Tasmania) the State Government didn’t
spend all the money mentioned in the
second column on unproductive undertakings
—part of it was lent to local bodies, and they
spent it on unproductive undertakings, and
in the matter of unproductive debt, the com-
munity, as a whole, arrived there just the
same. In the case of New South Wales,
things are really worse, as regards the
visible deficit, than they appear, for, in
addition to that, and to the deficit that was
made good out of loan moneys, a large
quantity of trust funds (the rents of unpaid-
for properties in the resumed area of Sydney)
were used as revenue, and this deficit is to
be made good out of loans later on. But
whether this is included or not, the whole
series constitutes an amazing evidence of
public insolvency, of account-faking, of
bogus prosperity, sham progress, and
cowardly evasion of responsibility and
putting-off of the evil day.
* * • *
Last financial year was a wonderful period
in Australasian history. It was the year of
the Great Public Drunk. It was almost
certainly the year of the greatest loan expen-
diture in Australasian history ; certainly it
was the year when New South Wales and
Maoriland reached their most frantic bor-
rowing point, and put the coping-stone on
the national insanity. Also, it was the year
when the expenditure of loan money for
unproductive purposes—really for the pur-
pose of concealing deficits—reached its very
worst phase. These are the amounts bor-
rowed last year, and the total debts of the
various States up to 30th June last: —
Loan Ex- Total Total
penditure Loan Debt
per In- Expendi- per Total
habitant ture in Inhabi- Debt,
in 1902. 1902. tant.
Westralia.. £7 18 7 £1,545,823 £69 2 5 £13,471,034
Maoriland.. 313 5 2,890,767 61 11 9 48,510,232
N.S. Wales 311 0 4,898,683 52 310 . 72,011,847
Queensland 2 5 6 1,161,689 69 9 0 35,455,514
Tasmania.. 119 5 341,994 49 10 3 8,595,372
S.A. .. 111 0 566,081 70 14 2 25,794,798
Victoria .. 014 8 889,331 41 15 11 50,520,888
The-saddest case in the above list is that of
Maoriland, which actually did reform at one
time, and practised a few years of economy,
honesty and clean living, and which has now
gone back to a worse slough than that from
which it emerged.
* * • •
The seven States of Australasia owed,
among them, on 30th June, 1902, over
£250,000,000. No other country in the
world is so deeply indebted in proportion to
its population, and possibly no other ever
will be. For £73,000,000 of this debt there
are no remunerative assets whatever to show
—for much of it there are no assets at all;
the other £181,000,000 is partly represented
by remunerative assets, but in the main they
don’t pay anything like interest on cost of
construction. Merely that portion of the
interest bill which has to be raised by taxa-
tion (or faked out of new loans) represents
such a burden as few other countries even
profess to carry. A great deal is said about
direct taxation, and Australia really per-
suades itself that it does something remark-
able in the way of raising money by land
and income taxes, probate duties, and the
like, but, as a matter of fact, the amount of
loan money which it steals and uses for
revenue purposes is much more in some
States, and much more in the aggregate,
than the amount it raises by all direct taxes
put together. The tax figures for Maoriland
are not given in Coghlan’s volume, but the
six federated States show up in this fashion :
Loan Money used
Direct Taxes as Revenue
per Inhabitant. per Inhabitant
(about)
Westralia .. £0 17 10 .. £l4 1
N.S. Wales .. 016 8 .. 110 10
S.A 014 8 .. 012 2
Tasmania .. 0 12 10 .. 18 9
Victoria .. 011 10 .. 0 5 6
Queensland .. 010 10 .. 015 1
Average .. £0 14 1 .. £0 18 7
When the great loan swindle falls through,
Australia will require to do a great deal more
than double all its direct taxes merely to
keep its ordinary services going—even if it
abandons the building of railways, tramways,
telephones, sewerage works, water works,
&c., altogether. There are only two States
(Victoria and South Australia), where the
stealing of loan money for revenue purposes
isn’t a far larger source of income nowadays
than direct taxation. During last financial
year, borrowing, taken as a whole, was
almost as prolific a source of revenue to the
States as customs, excise, and all direct
taxation put together. By all these forms
of taxation, the six State Governments of
Australia and Tasmania realised£lo,l33,l39;
and they borrowed £9,403,601.
* ♦ * *
The comforting theory on which the poli-
tician always falls back is that all this loan
money is well invested in “developing the
resources of the country. ” But nowadays 255.
worth of loan money often goes to produce
2s. 6d. worth of real development, and the com-
forting explanation is a lie, and the game
doesn’t pay. There is hardly a public work
being built now in all Australia which is rea-
sonably expected to pay more than half
the interest on the money borrowed for con-
struction purposes, and, nowadays, a huge
and increasing proportion of the money
is borrowed for undertakings which, it is
well-known, will pay nothing at all. Most
of the States, in these times, want, above all
things, to borrow enough, or nearly enough,
money to pay the interest on their public
debt, because if the interest were paid out of
their own resources it would bring them face
to face with some very hard problems. They
want to do something easy that will keep
the unemployed quiet, and prevent about 10
per cent, of the population clamoring for
work at the Premier’s door ; and they want
to keep the boom disease going, because, in
such a State as N.S.W. or Westralia, the
stoppage of the loan money influx for three
years would probably produce such a wreck
that the revenue would fall about one-half.
These States don’t float loans now because
public works are wanted —at least, that isn’t
the first consideration; they invent public
works because loans are wanted—which is a
considerable difference.
• * • *
If the British money-lender takes alarm
and wholly stops supplies—and if the present
riot continues, he must do so—Australia
could keep solvent with a great effort; but
some of the States almost certainly won’t.
Their people have been corrupted, demoral-
ised and rendered helpless and flaccid by the
habit of living easily on loans, and it would be
so much easier to offer ss. in the £ than to
keep up the struggle, that a race which has
been taught by its Reids and O’Sullivans
to take the easiest way would almost cer-
tainly compound with its creditors. Vic-
toria, as the State which depends least on
loan moneys, could pull through more easily
than the rest, because in its case the shock
would be comparatively small, but it would
probably go with the crowd. Loans have
corrupted the national life of Australia. It
was needless to make any great genuine
effort to establish new industries to find
work for the people—the big loan always
found them some employment to go on with.
There was no need to make any vigorous
attempt to solve the land problem, to sup-
press the curse of big estates and great
absentees, and to make the country (such
parts of it as are not desert) as
productive as possible—the disinherited sec-
tion of the population always found a job of
some kind at a push in building something
out of loans. Almost every great national
problem can be postponed, or temporarily
shelved, by the expenditure of money in
some direction or other, and it is easier to
borrow than to think. Australia has grown
accustomed, in its loan-luxury, to have 14
costly Houses of Parliament, and seven
Governors, and six Agents-General, and
six Chief-Justices, and gorgeous public
buildings, and more imports, in propor-
tion to population, than almost any other
country on earth, and cheap railway fares
(the railway deficit being put out of sight
somewhere), and 40 town-halls in one city,
and remissions of selectors’ and pastoralists’
rents, and old-age pensions, and Judges’
pensions, and civil-service pensions, and 7s.
a day on public works, and eight hours a
day in its private capacity, and 22 gorgeous
banks for less than 4,000,000 people, and all
manner of relief works, and low taxation,
and seed-wheat, and irrigation works that it
doesn’t pay for, and free carriage of starving
stock ; and it has become used to treating
the proceeds of land-sales as revenue, and
hanging up the deficit, and letting things
slide. It has never taken the trouble to
find the money as it went along, and now
there is such a mass of arrears to make up
that the day loans cease there must be
an appalling breakage among these gods.
Probably an enervated race will decide that
mere national solvency isn’t worth the
breakage.
* * * *
As an example of how Australia pays the
interest on its public liabilities now, and how
it finds the maintenance of public solvency
comparatively easy just at present, the
following figures as regards the six federated
States are worthy of consideration :
Loan Money Amount paid
Interest on used during out of country’s
Public Debt. Year. own resources.
1897 .. £6,915,047 .. £6,008,106 .. £906,941
1898 .. 7,014,038 .. 5,512,965 .. 1,501.073
1899 .. 7,156,930 .. 5,572,354 .. 1,584,576
1900 . . 7,262,241 .. 6,122,227 .. 1,140,014
1901 .. 7,480,814 .. 7,232,701 .. 248,113
Amount received.
1902 .. 7,778.003 .. 9,403,601 .. 1,625,598
The question goes into a sentence : If the
supply of loans stopped, and Australia had
to pay £7,778,003 per annum, instead of
receiving £1,625,598, what would happen ?
Especially what would happen now that the
land revenue is getting low, the price of wool
is low, the influx of immigrants—who used
to bring in about a year along
with them—has practically ceased, the gold
supply (except in Westralia, where the
mines are mostly foreign-owned) is diminish-
ing, and the deficit, despite all the big loans,
is already a chronic dweller in our midst ?
The Right of Public Meeting.
Bct, though the British Government is thus clearly the
noblest scene of deliberative and legislative political
functions . . . though we feel, therefore, that the privi-
lege of a voice in the selection of the members of that
House is the franchise most earnestly to be sought . . .
we must also rejoice in the fact that an Englishman’s
direct exercise of deliberative and legislative powers is
not confined to Parliament (of which but very few can
become members) ; nor is his acquaintance with electoral
duties and the working of political machinery restricted
to the occasions when he votes for representatives in the
House of Commons. There are almost innumerable other
spheres of political action, each of which may seem
humble and :limited in itself, but which collectively are
of infinite importance. . . . They train us to due ob-
servance of the necessary forms and restrictions of public
discussion. They mature in us that aptitude for orderly
association, and that capacity for organised energy which
seem to be instinctive to men in England and in the
United States, but are so very scarce and imperfect else-
where. They foster the principle of the acquiescence by
the minority in carrying out the resolutions of the
majority, so long as those resolutions are unreversed,
together with the freest action by that minority in endea-
voring to procure a legitimate reversal of those resolu-
tions. They aid in creating, and they materially strengthen
among us that rare and difficult sentiment which
Mr. Grote in his remarks on certain of the
Athenian institutions has finely termed “A Constitutional
morality—a paramount reverence for the forms of the
Constitution, enforcing obedience to the authorities
acting under and within those forms, yet combined with
the habit of open speech, of action subject only to
definite legal control, and unrestrained censure of those
very authorities as to all their public acts.” . . . The
right of men to meet peaceably and discuss public
matters Openly and fearlessly is as undoubted as it is
valuable.— Edward Creasy, discussing public meetings .
in “ The English Constitution."
The right of public meeting, and the power of
public meeting to either directly legislate or to
force its wishes on the legislative body, has always
been a distinctive feature of democracy. In the old
Greek democracies, as far back as the dawn of popu-
lar freedom in the Homeric days, the “agora,'’
or public assembly of all citizens, had a definite
legislative function. In the Germanic democracy,
from which, in the main, the free institutions of
English-speaking races have sprung, the tribal
council, in which every full citizen had a voice
and vote, was the supreme legislative authority.
The subversion of democratic Government, partly
by the imperious tyranny of Rome, partly by that
irruption of barbarians which marked the down-
fall of the Roman Empire, did not destroy, but
only clouded for a while, the tradition of public
meeting. In 1294 the public meeting as a legisla-
tive power is met with in Switzerland ; in 1314
there is another record of law by “ folk-mote ”
in the same country; and there is thence-
forth a steadily-increasing stream of prece-
dents, until in 1291, and again more clearly
in 1874, the Swiss Federal constitution —
pattern of all federal instruments of government —
gave distinct and choate expression to the demo-
cratic sentiment, that the public meeting is the
ultimate basis of all democratic rule. In England,
the Norman tyranny with its curses of clericalism
and feudalism effectively smothered for awhile the
Germanic institutions of democracy—and especi-
ally that of public meeting. It was not until 1769
that public meetings were revived. “Public
meetings,” says Cooke’s “ History of Party,”
“ through which the people might declare their
newly-acquired consciousness of power, cannot be
clearly traced higher than the year 1769, but in
1770 they had become of daily occurrence.'’ Since
then, they have always found a definite place
in the scheme of English government, their
power recognised, and their supreme authoi’ity
frequently made manifest. By public meetings,
and not by any spontaneous education of the
privileged classes which elected Parliaments,
were the various Reform Bills forced through the
Legislature. In the hands of the Chartists, of the
Roman Catholic Emancipists, and, more recently,
as the final court of appeal in voiced by GLADSTONE,
the public meeting has, in England, continually
vindicated its claim to be the final arbitrament
on matters of national policy—a Supreme Court
of Appeal from Parliament.
• * * *
The dignity of the public meeting has r>een
recognised by the statutes, by the Common Law,
and by the prescriptive customs of England. The
chairman of such a body has, by his office, a wide
judicial and magisterial power. He is empowered
to take steps to maintain order, which would not
be available to him as an ordinary citizen. The
police forces of the state must, if called upon,
assist him in the maintenance of his dignity
and of proper order. It is forbidden that
the soldiers of the Crown should assemble to over-
awe any public meeting. For the time being,
indeed, a public meeting is akin to an assemblage
of the Legislature, and its properly-elected chair-
man has temporary powers and privileges analo-
gous to those with which the Speaker of Parlia-
ment is clothed. Such provisions are necessary to
safeguard the right of public meeting. If there
were no means of checking disorder, of securing
freedom of speech and freedom of vote, the right
of public meeting would lapse : every gathering
would be at the mercy of a minority, liable to be
frustrated by a few hireling malcontents.
* • • *
Custom stronger than enacted law has, in com-
munities where the sentiment of true democracy
has been cherished, worked to hedge the public
meeting round with further safeguards to de-
corum and freedom of debate. In England, before
those unhappy days when a fierce and unreasoning
Jingoism drowned for a while the national con-
science and the national spirit of freedom, the
right of public meeting was generally preserved
with extreme jealousy. The assemblies were
orderly; provision was made for free questioning
and for untrammelled voting on issues submitted ;
unseemly disturbance was rigidly put down.
This state of things cannot be said to exist now.
There have been of late some conspicuous ex-
amples in England of ruffianism riding rough-shod
over public assemblages. But during a period of
national folly, it is natural that what is best in
the national life should be temporarily obscured,
and it is reasonable to hope that, with return-
ing sanity, England will return to her old
opinions of the sacredness of the public
meeting. In the United States, that other
centre of English-speaking democracy, the public
meeting has been always a revered institution.
There occur constantly cases of trespass on its
rights, but the general rule is that speakers are
heard decorously and that the issues are then
voted on regularly and properly. It is not an un-
common thing for a public man to speak to a
patient and orderly audience for some time, and
then to have his views almost unanimously con-
demned on a vote. A meeting is looked upon as
a deliberative assembly, not as an arena for the
display of the emotions in wild-beast fashion.
• * * *
In Australia, unfortunately, there has not been,
of late years at any rate, much regard for the
sanctity of the public meeting, that centre core
of democracy. Free institutions are taken a
great deal too much for granted in this community.
They have not had to be fought for to any marked
extent, but have usually been granted without
much trouble of agitation. So they have not had
the advantage of being hallowed by the traditions
which centre around great struggles for freedom.
The people have never learned in the school of
experience that fierce jealousy of any trespass on
their rights, which is the main safeguard against
oligarchic trespass. There have been a few in-
spiring incidents in our national industry—Eureka
stockade, the turning back of the convict ships,
and later of the Chinese from Circular Quay, are
examples—but they have been too few, and have
been too lightly regarded by the leaders
of the young nation’s thought to have im-
pressed the lesson that vigilance is the price
of liberty. We lack, as a people, much of the
true democratic spirit. The forms of democracy
we have, freedom we have, but not that spirit of
Liberty which makes the citizen “ always the
head and the ideal.” So in Australia there pass
unnoticed outrages on that essential of democracy
—the public meeting—which in countries sup-
posedly more backward politically would be
promptly punished.
* * * »
To crush or flaunt a public meeting is quite a
common instrument of party politics in Australia,
as common, too, in the hands of the “Radicals”
as of the Tories. In Sydney Town Hall, a few
nights ago, the Federal Premier, endeavoring to
state to the citizens of the Commonwealth what
he had done of good or evil on their behalf during
his recent representation of them in England, was
subjected to organised disorderly interruption by
a few Freetraders and religious fanatics. The
Freetrade papers and the Freetrade leader have
barely concealed their exultation at the outrage.
Some years ago the Freetraders were howled
down by Labor partizans and Protectionists; and


almost every Labor Radical and Protectionist was
an apologist for the barbarism. To organise a
baud of yelling fools as a means of political argu-
ment is indeed a recognised weapon of polemical
warfare in this community. When, a few months
ago, a meeting was convened in Adelaide to
express satisfaction with the Chamberlain policy
of Jingoism, a body of troops was marched to the
hall to ensure an affirmative vote. Even to that
there was hardly a protest.
* * * *
The fact that truths are unpleasant is no reason
why they should be concealed when a plain state-
ment of them is likely to be of good effect. Aus-
tralian democracy, through its own supineness, its
lack of spirit, its desire to “lean against a post”
is in grave danger of check. So far it has had so
little fighting to do that its muscles are flabby.
But the future, one may be certain, holds for it
many trials and difficulties, perhaps many
disasters. The disasters are inevitable if there is
not some effort now to brace up, to consider the
forms of liberty less and the spirit more. One of
the first results of such an effort would be a more
sacred regard of the right of Public Meeting.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Kanaka Preacher Again.
The usual preacher (this time Rev. W. Cuff, of
London, a member of the Dipper sect) has been
considering the Kanaka problem in the usual way
and with the usual results. Says Brisbane
Courier :
Mr. Cuff went over the Bingera and Fairymead plan-
tations, and he was appreciative in his recognition of the
attentions paid to him by the respective proprietors,
Messrs. Gibson and Young. Asked whether he had gone
there with any preconceived ideas about the Kanaka, or
the working of the sugar industry, he stated he had not.
He had brought to bear upon both an absolutely open and
unprejudiced mind—a mind unbiassed, except by an
Englishman’s love of freedom, and intolerance of tyranny
and oppression. In his outspoken and downright way, it
was apparent that if once his susceptibilities had been
touched he would have spoken—as he somewhat ve-
hemently said he would upon another subject—" with
trumpet tongue.” Apparently he saw nothing to repro-
bate, but very much to praise. " I never,” said he, “saw
a Kanaka before. I saw Kanakas there (on Bingera and
Fairymead). I saw their food ; I saw it cooked ; I
saw their bread baking ; I saw their meat as it hung
in the slaughter-yard, and I saw it cooked—and it looked
splendid stuff tome; I looked into their dwellings, and
I talked with them —that is, so far as I could understand
them and they me; and I have no hesitation in saying
that they are far better off and far better treated than
our farm laborers are in England. At Fairymead, I saw
some 87 of them at their night-meeting. They sang
Sankey’s hymns. ... So far as the special kind of work
they do is concerned, from what I saw, I should say that
white men, even if they are able to do it, are not likely
to take it up. Viewing the labor question generally, it
struck me, as an unprejudiced man going up as I did,
and seeing with my own eyes and hearing with my own
ears facts that cannot be challenged, that the Kanaka is
the solution of the whole thing, and a vast good to the
country. There is any quantity of land up there that
will grow sugar, and there are men willing to put their
capital into the industry and work the land and grow the
sugar. Surely that must be good for the Commonwealth,
and I cannot understand a policy which would prevent
it. . . . The objection to a laborer simply because he is
colored seems to me to be opposed to every English idea.
I cannot, as an Englishman, understand the objection to
the black man merely because he is black. If I were a
laborer here I would as soon work with a Kanaka as any-
body else.
Mr. Cuff reads like a fair sample of the ordinary
parson —-narrow, ignorant, and utterly blind to the
most rudimentary principles of fair-play ; and yet
he and his kind can’t understand why the very name
of parson is growing to be abhorrent to the mass
of the community. Parson Cuff began his un-
biased inquiry by accepting the hospitality of the
defendant, about which he speaks enthusiastically.
Then he heard the defendant’s side of the case ;
the idea of calling on some of the Labor
unions and hearing the white workers’ version
apparently never occurred tothefair-mindedParson
Cuff. If he had read up the Queensland criminal
statistics he might have found that his hymn-
singing Kanakas, despite their veneer of Sankey-
ism, are so criminal a race as to constitute a danger
to the community; and if he had looked up the
mortality statistics he might have found that the
healthy and well-cared-for Kanakas die off like
flies on the Queensland sugar-lands; but, being
satisfied with the assurances of the rich man who
gave him victuals, he seemingly didn’t inquire. If
he had looked at the Queensland agricultural statis-
tics he might , have found that, instead of there
being abundance of men willing to take up sugar
land and grow sugar if only they are allowed to
have their Kanaka, the sugar industry has been
decaying and the area under sugar diminishing
during the last years of Kanakaism, while a
sudden revival showed itself in 1901—the year
when it became known that the Kanaka had to go.
Parson Cuff might have discovered, by reading
the Kanaka law, that there is nothing in it about
suppressing the sugar industry—but he probably
didn’t read the Kanaka law. He might have
learned also, by reading the papers, that white
men can and' do work sugar land success-
fully—for instance this, which refers to a district
hundreds of miles nearer to the equator than Bun-
daberg, appears in the S.M. Herald, side by side
with Mr. Cuff’s maunderings
The Cane Crushing.
Townsville reports that the amount of sugarcane grown
by white labor on the Lower Burdekin during the season
was 2539 tons, the rebate being £592. The estimated
output for the season is 5300 tons of sugar.
As for Mr. Cuff’s statement that the Englishman
doesn’t object to work side by side with the black
man, and that the prejudice against the mixing of
the races is un-English, that is either pitiable
ignorance or shameless falsehood. In India,
S’Africa, the West Indies, Hong Kong, Burmah
—everywhere that the Englishman goes his
ineradicable objection to anything that puts him
on any kind of an equality with the colored
man shows out conspicuously. Parson Cuff
may think that if he were a laborer he
wouldn’t mind laboring alongside the Kanaka ;
let him try, as a parson, marrying the
daughter of a black preacher, and see if his racial
instinct doesn’t assert itself. Mr. Cuff, in this
matter, has gone the road of Dr. Bevan and other
preachers. He heard with his own silly ears
“ facts that cannot be challenged ” —that is to say,
he dined with one party to the dispute, and
accepted his garbled yarn as gospel. In his utter
incapacity to inquire for himself, his refusal to
hear the other party’s side of the case, and his
abject subservience to the interests of the rich
man who comforted him with victuals and insidi-
ously bought his judgment and his stomach with
good dinners, he is a fair sample of his class.
A Pool Brayed in a Mortar.
Victoria has a £5,000,000 loan to pay off by
floating a new loan for £5,500,000 or so at the
end of next year. It is in no way different from
any number of other loans, but it is the most con-
venient example just now available of the loan
foolishness. By the time this £5,000,000 liability
falls due it will have existed for 25 years. It has
cost 4| per cent, interest, or £225,000 a year.
Victoria received £5,000,000 from Bull, and sends
back £5,625,000 in interest, so the State is
£625 000 worse off in actual cash than if it had
never borrowed at all. Also, it still owes the
£5,000,000, so it is really £5,625,000 worse off than
if it had never borrowed at all. It will renew the
loan at reduced interest, but even the reduced in-
terest will probably cost £175,000 a year
for ever; so if Victoria had never bor-
rowed that £5,000,000 at all it would
have saved £625,000 already, and, probably,
£175,000 a year for ever afterwards. Supposing
Victoria had decided in 1879 to. set aside out of
revenue £225,000 a year with which to build cer-
tain railways gradually, instead of setting aside
the same amount to pay. interest on £5,000,000
borrowed to build them, it would have the rail-
ways by now; it would have £625,000 more cash
than it has now; it wouldn’t owe £5,000,000 that
it owes now ; and it wouldn’t have to pay £175,000
or more per year for all the future, which it will
have to pay now. And even all that is only part
of the trouble. The borrowing of huge sums to
build railways in a mad hurry brought a multitude
of people into the country to build those railways m
a mad hurry, and when the railway building was
over thero were thousands of unemployed left on
the State’s hands, just when the State, with
£2,000,000 a year interest to pay, was least able
to assist them. The frantic expenditure of bor-
rowed money made a land boom, and the banks
lent money on the inflated land values, and when
the boom gave out the values went down, and the
banks broke, and great was the breakage thereof.
If Victoria had decided at the beginning to build
its public works, etc., out of revenue, it would
have all the railways and other works it has
now; it would have paid no more cash for them
than it has paid as interest on the money borrowed
to build them ; it wouldn’t owe anything, whereas
it now owes about £53,000,000; it wouldn’t
have to pay anything for interest, whereas it
now has to pay £2,000,000 a year; it would
have no deficit; and no retrenchment problem,
and probably no Bent ; it could abolish
its income-tax, and spend £1,000,000 a year
out of revenue on new public works and still be
vastly better off than it is ; there would have been
no great burst in ’93 ; and Victoria would be one
of the richest places on earth instead of a poor,
embarrassed spot struggling to make ends meet.
The same story applies more or less—as a rule
more—to all the Australias. And every new loan
that is floated is just the beginning of the same
dreary old story over again, and the author of the
story is that fool mentioned in Scripture who was
brayed in a mortar and lost none of his folly in
the process.
The Shipping Telegram Row.
The Federal Government, by deciding, in the
first place, to stop the free transmission of ship-
ping telegrams, and then giving way to the clamor
of the deadhead brigade, undoubtedly fell in
badly. As a set-off to this it may be fairly said
that the debate on the subject in N.S.W.
Assembly touched the nethermost depths of petty
meanness, drivel, and parochial prejudice. There
was the usual silly member who regarded the stop-
page as a Victorian conspiracy against N.S.W- >
which, considering that Victoria was to lose its
gratis shipping telegrams just like N.S.W., and
would get none of the money saved by stopping
the N.S.W. service, revealed a pitiable state of
mind. Also there was the usual batch of
members who complained about the mean
economy of the Federal Government. The
N.S.W. State Government, whatever its other
faults may be, isn’t mean. Last financial year it
used £2,129,519 of loan money as revenue, and it
was able to obviate a lot of meanness, and grant a
lot of deadhead privileges, and do a lot of “judi-
cious liberality ” out of that gigantic fraud. The
Federal Government, having no such fraud and
steal to fall back upon, has to be mean ; and if the
N.S.W. State Government was even reasonably
honest it would have to be a dozen times meaner
than its big Federal brother. One specially fool-
ish member raved that the “indescribable mean-
ness” of the Federal Government over the
shipping telegrams was a warning not to hand
over the railways to that specially mean authority.
Considering the accumulated deficit of over
£8,000,000 on the N.S.W. railways, the increasing
annual shortage, and the appalling fact that, last
quarter, 71 per cent, of the earnings went in
working expenses, whereas, two years ago, ex-
penses absorbed only 57 per cent., and even then
the lines made a loss of £138,000 for the year
—considering all these things, it looks as if
it were time some capable and indescribably
mean person took the railways in hand. Any-
how, after many strange irrelevances, matters
simmered down. The shipping people, who
are probably most concerned, wouldn’t pay, and
the Federal Government agrees to continue
this branch of deadheadism and charge the
bill to the States, which will doubtless pay it
liberally out of loans. The Federal Government
comes out of the business badly, and N.S W.
Assembly, at all events, comes out a great deal
worse.
♦
Seddon’s Party That Used To Be.
The great overwhelming Government party of
Maoriland begins to crack up rapidly as the elec-
tions draw closer, and there is a murkiness about
the political atmosphere that portends a great
burst. The departure of Seddon to rave up and
down Africa and England, snorting insane jingo-
ism, practically marked the end of the Ballance-
Seddon epoch. Acting-Premier Ward, once out
of reach of the Old Man’s boot, began to drift
deplorably. ‘ 1 All revolutionary and contentious
legislation” was quietly laid aside, and Oily Joe
began to talk glibly about reducing the burdens
of the people by remitting customs taxation. Now
the papers that have been loudest in their praise
of Ward’s “tactful leadership” are hard at work,
conveying the impression that Seddon will not
remain in Maoriland politics, but will accept
an Imperial post, and insinuating that, in
any case, Joseph Ward is the better leader
for the Liberal party. In fact, the con-
struction of the Ward Cabinet has already
been outlined. In the Liberal federation which
was supposed to direct the Government forces in
the coming campaign the Ward influence was
supreme, and it started to choose its candidates
accordingly. The Trades Unionists, alarmed at
the aspect of things, now threaten to break away
from the Liberal federation and run candidates of
its own. For the sake of Maoriland it is to be
sincerely hoped that the great split comes imme-
diately, so that the Labor party will have time to
organise its forces, and wreck the brilliant pro-
gramme of loans and public works with which
Ward is hurrying to the country. If the split
happens now the Labor party will certainly come
back strong enough to make a vigorous fight.
If it comes after the election probably Ward will
be strong enough to trample right over all oppo-
sition to the bosom of Abraham Cohen, of Lon-
don, and start a loan-drunk which will, in the end,
wreck the socialistic legislation of the past 12
years. Behind Ward are a considerable section
of the Government followers who are anxious for
a loan boom ; the ragged remnant of the old Con-
tinuous Ministry crowd, so ragged and hopeless
that it hardly counts, but which, though ostensibly
in opposition, will support Ward as the most Tory
leader available; and the Farmers’ Union crowd,
which wants State freezing works to freeze its
mutton cheaply; State steamers to carry it to Lon-
don cheaply; State grading to make its quality and
reliability beyond question; State-managed cool
stores and retail depots in England to dispose of it
to the best advantage; cheap labor, and a “free
breakfast table.” It wants all the assistance
it can get for its own products, but absolutely
free and unrestricted competition for the products
of the manufacturer, artisan, and laborer. It
objects to Courts of Arbitration, the application
of industrial legislation to agricultural occupa-
tions, and the limitation of hours of labor and
sweating wages. And it objects to pay for any of
the proposed State assistance out of its own
pocket, but proposes doing it out of loans which
will come home to roost in the days of posterity.
The only leader who is likely to mix his political
liquor in this fearful fashion is Ward. On the
other side of the crack in the Govt, structure are
the trade unionists. They want the nationalisa-
tion of all industries, including agriculture. They
want economy, and a cessation of foreign bor-
rowing, technical education, continuation and ex-
tension of the lease in perpetuitv, and other things.
When Old Man Seddon has time to take stock he
will find that the solid party that he left behind
him at his departure has split right in two and
probably it will be open to him to take the leader-
ship of either half. He may be either an out-and-
out socialist or a Tory, but as to combining the
discordant elements and building up his old party
again that looks almost impossible. In the
months which he spent howling for tyranny and
coercion in Africa Oily Joe was digging deep
holes for him to fall into on his return, and it will
be very difficult for him to keep out of all of them.
*
Syndicating 1 the Victorian Railways.
Judging by recent happenings in Melbourne,
where Minister Bent has of late been throwing
himself and other unwieldy masses around with
great vigor, there seems to be a deep-laid scheme
to bring the Victorian Railways into such a state
of disrepute that the public will presently, in
despair, allow them to be leased—to the usual
shindykit. Despite the finding of the recent
Committee of Inquiry, and the persistent reports
of heads of departments and foremen that they
are unable to maintain engines and permanent
way in proper repair for want of hands, Bent
still persists in declaring that the lines are over-
manned, and proposes to put most of the railway
servants on short time —five days a week. He
also proposes to run all trains at a higher speed—
this in face of a report by the Engineer of Exist-
ing Lines that,
In view of the permanent-way and works staff working
only five days a week, it is of importance that fast running
be avoided as much as possible, that engine-men and
guards keep a sharp look-out, and that only in special
cases, and when absolutely required, may engines of a
heavier class than that authorised be used.
Thus the Chief Engineer practically warns the
blatant, blundering Minister that the badly-worn
machine is being worked at high tension and under
risk—and Bent proposes to take more risk. Also,
M. Hamilton, having stated in the House
that engines at Bendigo (among other places) had
not been properly cleaned for months, the fore-
man at Bendigo sheds reported that “the state-
ments made by Mr. Hamilton are correct in a
sense. I have not been able to get all the engines
thoroughly cleaned for several weeks —the main
line passenger engines are cleaned right through
occasionally. Whenever the traffic lulls a bit I
have to pub the men off for overtime and rest.”
And Bent says the railways are overmanned !
Never a day passes now without a report of a
breakdown or derailment, and if Bent wants a
dozen bad smashes, with a hideous loss of life
attendant thereon, he is going the right way to get
them. Concurrent with all this, the treacherous Age
daily nauseates readers with letters from “Common-
sense,” “Farmer” “Pro Bono,” &c., advocating
the leasing of the lines as a remedy for the deficit.
The real cause of said deficit, by the way, is not
bad management or shiftless working, but the
want of settlement along many of the non-paying
lines. Most of these lines were built to “ open up
the country” and “induce settlement,” find, as
long as Victoria runs its trains to the ultimate
backblocks through hundreds of miles of locked-
up rich lands, such as are selfishly held by
the Chirnsides, the Wilsons, the Clarkes,
and the like, no management or shindykit
on earth can hope to make them pay as a whole.
The obvious remedy is to put on this
land such a graduated tax as will compel
the Owners to let settlers come and dwell there.
When there is more population along the lines
there will be more traffic, and more money, and
less deficit. That is the statesmanlike remedy for
the trouble. Bent’s remedy is to dance with rage
in Melbourne, and pound his fist on the table, and
demand that things come right instanter —in
which respect he is just like the unreasoning
potentate who ordered that all poverty and misery
should cease in his dominions after the 14th of
the following month.
♦
The Jury’s Recommendation to Mercy.
It is to the credit of the See Government in
N. that it has never disregarded the recom-
mendation of a jury to mercy in a capital case. It
will be deeply to the discredit of the Irvine
Government in Victoria if it finally flouts the re-
commendation to mercy given by the jury which
found Mrs. Sangal guilty. The effect of such a
refusal to give attention to an integral portion of
the jury’s verdict —apart from the results to the
community of being party to a killing outraging
all sentiment and more brutal than the crime it
was designed to punish—would be that the next
Mrs. Sangal, if her astounding wickedness can
ever find a counterpart, or the next woman
guilty of a capital crime, will face a jury
before whose eyes will dangle a memory
so horrible as to compel them to forget
their duty to society and say “ Not Guilty.”
To cold-bloodedly hang Mrs. Sangal after a jury
has recommended her to mercy, and after keeping
her in gaol until she has been delivered of her
infant,, will make the conviction of the next half-
dozen women-murderers practically impossible.
Surely the State of Victoria does not desire that?
The object of the criminal law should be, above all
things, to be sure, to punish as nearly as possible
all offenders. If by an extra amount of savagery
it interferes with its sureness through raising up
sympathy with criminals and making juries
hesitate to convict, then it is foolish as well
as cruel. The Bulletin would not care
to think of Mrs. Sangal let loose on
the community once more; and it likewise
does not care to think of the followers in her foot-
steps who will —it may be foreseen with almost
absolute certainty—avoid punishment for their
crimes by verdicts of acquittal if she is hanged.
There is a means to avoid both difficulties—a sen-
tence of perpetual imprisonment. That means
the jury indicated in its verdict of “ Guilty, with
a recommendation to mercy.” In civil cases, the
jury not only finds the verdict, but the amount of
damages; in criminal cases, it is beginning to lie
recognised that the same principle should obtain.
Certainly no man or woman should hang when
the jury definitely declares against the death
penalty—and that is the case in regard to Mrs,
Sangal.
0
Before Two or More J’s.P.
In Westralia the James Government has evi-
dently resolved to defend the gold-mining
capitalist at any cost. The proposed new law
against gold-stealing provides, among many other
things, these following :
Any person who is charged before two or more J’s.P.
with having on his person, or in his cart or other vehicle,
or on any premises of which he is the tenant or occupier,
or the reputed tenant or occupier, gold reasonably sus-
pected of being stolen (the Bill doesn’t say what are
reasonable suspicions), and not being able to prove to the
satisfaction of the two or more J’s.P. that the gold is his
own, may (even though no person can show any claim to
the gold) be fined £SO or imprisoned for six months.
Any person found on the premises where the “ reason-
ably suspected” gold was discovered, or being present
when it was discovered, may be similarly punished by
two or more J’s.P., unless he can prove to their satisfac-
tion that he had no connection with the metal (it isn’t
necessary for the police to prove that he had any
connection).
Any person found “ watching or patrolling outside and
in the vicinity of the premises ” on which the suspected
gold is found may be fined £25 or “jugged” for three
months, unless he can prove to the satisfaction of the
two or more J’s.P. that he was merely passing by, or
taking the fresh air, or something of the kind. The Bill
doesn’t say, by the way, that he must be watching for the
police or the detectives. On its strict wording he may
get three months for watching a comet, or a dog-light,
or a horse that has fallen down.
Any person who happens to be along with the person
on whom the “ reasonably suspected” gold was found, is
to be deemed an accessory to the unproved theft, and
punished as above, unless he can prove to the satisfaction
of two or more J’s.P. that he had no hand in the robbery
which possibly never happened. Of course, none of these
people can prove that he wasn’t at the place where the
crime was committed at the date when it was committed,
for no place or date or crime is necessarily specified.
Unless he can prove that he never was anywhere an alibi
is impossible.
If no robbery is proved or known or heard of, at any
time or place whatever, and nobody alleges that the
gold the policeman has seized was stolen from him, and it
can’t be identified in any way whatever, it may be for-
feited to the Crown, the person who had it getting six
months’ gaol all the same for not proving to the satis-
faction of two or more J’s.P. that it is his own, and the
person who was watching the dog-fight outside getting
three months.
The law doesn’t specify in any way whatever how much
evidence shall be held sufficient to satisfy two or more
J’s.P. that the gold is the lawful property of the person
on whom it was found. The two or more J’s.P. may
refuse to be satisfied after hearing the testimony of 18
reputable witnesses. In fact, any and every nninfluential
person in Westralia may, if this law passes, have his gold
confiscated and be sent to gaol by two or more J’s.P.,
however bad the character of the J’s.P. may be. And the
characters of some Westralian J’s.P. smell worse than a
bone mill.
Therefore, if the Bill passes, it won’t be safe to be in or
on or in the vicinity of any building or vehicle in all
Westralia, for no one knows where gold may or may not
be found, or be alleged to be found, and any gold so
found may be reasonably suspected of being stolen, if two
or more unreasoning J’s.P. say so, without any evidence
whatever. And, in that case, the person inside is liable
to six months for being on the premises, and the persen
outside is liable to three months for “ watching and
patrolling” in the vicinity, and apparently any distance,
from a yard to half-a-mile, may be the vicinity, if two or
more J’s.P. so decide. Also, if the person in the vicinity
is sitting down, or standing, or leaning, he is liable to be
charged with watching ; and if he is walking, running,
sliding, crawling, ambling, hobbling or cantering, he may
he charged with patrolling, and he gets three months or
is fined £25 either way, for the laws of Groperdom are
built in that fashion.
+
A DEPUTATION, representing all the trades-
unionists and many of the unattached workers of
Victoria, called last week on Solicitor-General
Davies, a member of the House of 48 Rich Land-
lords, re the Factories Bill, and told him, among
other things, that the workers would not be
bossed by the House of Landlords much longer.
And some day, in all seriousness, if the said.
House doesn’t mend its ways, the workers may
call round with an axe in one hand and an im-
porter’s head in the other, and repeat that
remark. When a House of Legislature is in such
a position that there is no redress against it
except by riot and butchery, it has only to block
progress long enough and it will get both. The
Victorian House of Landlords can’t be dissolved ;
can’t be swamped ; and can’t be improved by the
election of liberal and progressive men, because
the membership is restricted by the property
qualification to a very small and bitterly Tory
class, among whom Victoria has utterly failed to
find 48 progressive men. The very existence of
such an irresponsible House is an irritation, and
the fact that the only way the bulk of the people
can really influence it is by calling en masse with
the head of the late lamented importer in its hand
should always be kept in view by the 48. A
House with almost unlimited power in theory, no
muscle to speak of, and two gouty legs to get
away with, is really living on its own swelled
head and the forbearance of the public.
Any Cornstalk man who is a man and not a
soured and overgrown “kid,” must feel pretty
much ashamed over the explanation of N.S.W.
Agent-General Copeland re the Hopetoun diffi-
culty. Copeland’s explanation, published in
Sydney last Saturday, is really to this effect:—
He, on behalf of N.S.W., stipulated that the Governor-
General, during the preliminary period while the
Australian Parliament sat in Melbourne, was to spend
about half his time in Sydney, even if he had no official
business there (it was calculated that Federal affairs
would compel him to spend the other half of his time in
Melbourne).
This, according to Copeland’s own explanation, was
purely a matter of vanity and tuft-hunting, and was
based on the principle of the small boy who was mad
because the other boy had a wart and he hadn’t.
According to Copeland, it was due to N.S.W., as the
State with the largest public debt, that a pale thin
person of no earthly account should reside there as
much as possible.
This extra demand left the Governor-General with an
extra and most expensive house to keep up—a house for
which he had no real necessity, and which was left on his
hands by' the vanity of Copeland and co. The N.S.W.
Parliament agreed to contribute towards this extra cost
provided other States did likewise. Other States didn’t
see why the.v should pay for maintaining an extra guber-
natorial residence in Sydney, and the N.S.W. Govern-
ment declined to pay, single-handed, for its own private
fad—consequently Hopetoun fell in financially, and
trouble ensued.
That is about the size of Copeland’s explanation,
and it is a sorrowful thing that N.S.W. should be
represented by people of Copeland’s class.
♦
If the decision of Smallman, P.M., in the Outtrim
(Vic.) strike cases —£6 3s. 9d. damages for breach
of agreement in ceasing work without the con-
tracted-for fortnight’s notice —holds good on
appeal, it means, with costs, £IBO out of the
Union funds. But it will give the miners a more
solid status than they had before, with the right
to claim damages in the event of a lock-out or
stoppage of work without reasonable cause. The


THE LARGEST AND BEST IN THE WORLD I
The Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York
NET FUNDS, January 1, 1902, £71,975,776.
Principal Agency in Australasia; Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
Z. O, BENNIE, General Manager.
SAWMILL MACHINERY.
Single and Double Cutting BAND MILLS for
hardwood logs, CIRCULAR SAW MILLS, Com-
plete Outfits of any capacity. Band Resaws,
Engines and Boilers.
william Fleming,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
At the Blue Mountains.
CARRINGTON
HOTEL PBi*TY.
KATOOMBA.
A. L. PEACOCK. '
C. T. H. WAKE.
M. EMIL CHIBOUST.
An Ideal Holiday Resort.
case is but one more emphasizing the need of am
Arbitration Act and Court, for the miners struck:
(i.e., ceased work without notice) because they
considered the mine-owners (per the manager)i
were infringing regulations specified- in the con-
tracts ; and almost all such contracts are neces-
sarily one-sided at the best, because the employee,
party is under duress—the necessity of getting
work. By the way, the Outtrim seems to be a,
pretty profitable mine, since it assesses the-profits, j
made from each individual employee
laborers, wheelers, etc.) at £7 2s. 6d. per fortnigh.tr,
per man !
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum “ The Derby Winner."
Royal ■■ Sherlock Holmes.”
Palace “ Cyrano de Bergerac.”
Criterion “Little Christopher Columbus.**
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ Sorrows of Satan.”
Her Maj it’s “ The Toreador."
Theatre Royal “ The Favorite.” \eZzsZ
Opera House Rickards' Vaudeville Co.
New Olympia 1 u .nc
(Prince’s Bridge) f Fltzgerald Bros ‘ ° lrcus '
4
Each night that Mdlle. Dolores sang her
farewells in Sydney Centennial Hall the enthusiasm
grew. On Thursday last, which was to have been
her final night, the rain swished along the streets
and beat so loudly against the roof of the great
hall that the tinkling accompaniment and the
soaring voice of the singer were at times almost
overpowered by it; but the great hall was packed.
People sweltered right up against the organ pipes,
they splashed into the empty statue niches, and
at the doors they climbed on one another’s
shoulders and back hair, and craned long necks to
catch the fleeting notes. Outside, where the
flaring electric light shone dully through the veil
of failing rain, they streamed away in scores
because the last available inch of space had gone.
Inside, the conclusion of each song was the
signal for a storm of applause that grew louder
and wilder as the programme ran out, till, with
the “Echo” and “Laughing” songs, the crowd
dropped all restraint, and 3000 people sprang to
theirfeet and letthemselvesgoinonespacious howl.
Umbrellas and walking-sticks pounded the floor,
hats and handkerchiefs were waved aloft, and one
damp mackintosh was whirled in the air with an
irresponsible person at the lower end of it. On
the platform, the women around Dolores were
kissing her hands hysterically. Many of the hats
and things would have been lost altogether if
Dolores, her face all smiles of real joy, hadn’t
come out and warbled “ Home, Sweet Home.”
That stayed the tumult, and the audience calmed
down and drifted out into the rain.
** * «
“Cyrano de Bergerac,” as Rostand wrote
it, was that rarest of all achievements in these
days, a poetic play. Taking as his subject with
great daring one of the most ridiculous stories of
the Euphuists—those discursive romancers of the
dawn of European Letters—Rostand surrounded
it with so much wit and grace and elegance, so
much real pathos, as to make it at once a literary
curiosity and a literary masterpiece. It is a
curiosity because the story is, in the main,
about a nose—a disfiguring, ugly, grossly over-
grown nose and whilst a sonnet about an
eyebrow is permissible, an epic about a
nose seems impossible. It is a masterpiece,
because, in spite of its subject, “Cyrano” is a
great play and a great poem. As translated into
English, and presented at Sydney Palace on
Saturday night, the play, of course, was not equal
to the French original; poetry must lose in trans-
ference from one language to another, as a subtle,
frail perfume loses by being passed from one vase
to another. Nevertheless, the version is a very
fine one. It is vivid in action, brilliant in
dialogue, as successful in its humor almost as
in its pathos. Its chief fault, from a dramatic
point of view, is its too pronounced literary
flavor ; some of the allusions, jests, images, were
such as could only be seized by a person of fairly
wide reading; and, being rapidly uttered, were
frequently lost. The play obviously is one that is
to be better appreciated a second or a fourth time
than when first seen- ;
* c * *
Of the acting little can be said in fault-
finding. Henry Lee in the monumental character
of ‘ ‘ Cyrano ” —it must be one of the longest
“parts” in any play—meets every demand that
Art makes, and necessarily, therefore, is somewhat
over-subtle occasionally for the imagination of his
audience. His quick rushing speech, his stressful
bravura air, his emphasised swagger, bring the
Gascon poet, bully, soldier, boaster, martyr
and fool on the stage in as real a fashion as could
well be imagined ; and with all the spirit of the
character there is likewise close attention to the
little tiicks of the actor. And the make-up is
perfect—ugly without being farcical. A perform-
ance equal to Mr. Lee’s is but seldom seen on a
Sydney stage. The support is, on the whole, good.
Miss Eugenie Duggan, whilst allowing Roxane
to be rather more overshadowed than is necessary,.
plays with grace and charm, especially in the
last two acts. Mr. Diver’s Count de Guiche is
dignified and impressive, and Mr. Frank Crossley
takes the chief humorous part with great success.
Miss Helen Burdette plays a duenna well. .Cos-
tumes and mounting are true to the letterVand
appropriately rich ; and the stage management is
excellent, except for the fight scene before Arras,
when the cadets do double hand-springs down a
Sadded slope in their supposed death-agonies.
uch “business!,” all very well in melodrama,
should have no place in serious drama; however
well managed it cannot be else but absurd.
* • * *
Unfortunately the first night of “ Cyrano ”
was marked by a scene very little creditable
to the Sydney public. The play is a poetic,
a literary one; much of the humor and
much of the grace can only be appreciated by
people of some reading. Further, the waits be-
tween acts were long. Patience failed “the
gods,” and they had not public spirit enough,
or decency enough, to wait silently or to leave,
but “guyed” the players. Mr. Lee was at
last goaded into protest. Stopping the acting
for awhile he addressed the audience in an
effective but exceedingly bitter fashion. He had
been present, he said, when the people of Sydney
had howled down the Premier of Australia and
had left disgusted. He now had had, another ex-
perience of the . blackguardism _of a section of
Sydney s populace, and he had determined, so
soon as he was free from the contract then in
hand, never to appear before a Sydney audience
again. The audience—the majority of which had
been following the play with eager interest—
cheered this protest, and the play went on, the
§ -if iX disturbers leaving or holding their tongues.
Still Mr. Lee’s speech, justified though it was, was
bad policy.
** * *
The light of Sherlock Holmes’ chalky
countenance and the overawing effect of a lower
jaw that sticks out like the fire-box of a locomotive,
will not be withdrawn from Sydney Royal for
some little time yet, for business is still good
The amazing velocity of the ’tec’s swift, small boy
has, perhaps, more to do with the goodness of
business than is generally supposed. Australia
has plenty of boys who ane swift after a cricket
ball, and on other special occasions, but Holmes’
indiarubber boy, who is swift all the time simply
because he bounces by nature, is a kind that is
rare enough in any country to be refreshing. The
bov fits into the drama much better than Miss
Faulkner does. Sherlock’s love passages with
that young lady are so contrary to all the tradi-
tions of the character that she gets into the drama
with difficulty. Tbe Sherlock of the book was a
brilliant reasoning machine, and when he begins
to whirl his cogs and levers awkwardly in out-
pourings of the soul, and tries to put his boiler
affectionately round the young lady’s waist, in a
manner of speaking, it is difficult to take the affair
quite seriously.
** * *
“ A Million of Money ” concludes its
excitable, yet fairly reasonable, career at the
Lyceum this week; after which “The Derby
Winner” will be staged. Present writer, timidly
and in a tentative sort of way, advances the theory
that this probably means Horse on a large and
varied scale. Said writer, having recently fallen
in over one of Bland Holt’s horses, which proved
to be really a bike, is more tentative than usual
just now.
** * *
“ Little Christopher Columbus ” continues
to make a good impression at Sydney Criterion,
more especially when Johnny Sheridan, in bright
pink, confesses that he is a good girl. For the
rest, Mrs. Block’s Irish accent has improved, and
all the other bright girls representing themselves
as boys, or as boys disguised as girls, or as girls
pretending to be boys disguised as girls, are as
good as ever. Preparations for the forthcoming
pantomime are now in active progress.
** * *
At Sydney Tivoli, Miss Violet Welby-
Cooke was the only new comer on Saturday, and
she balanced herself, in spite of that unwieldy
name, with much success on the tight-wire. This
Saturday, “the mighty Sandow” re-appears for
five performances only.
Above remarks on “The Sorrows of Satan’
(which five-act drama happened at Melb. Princess’s
last Saturday, with the redeeming grace of 10
minutes between acts) are intended to put off the
evil day when the present writer will say exactly
what he thinks of the production. The unaccount-
able drama is found Guilty, but sentence is
deferred for a week.
** * *
“ In the Soup,” which is the Hawtrey co.’s
most satisfactory effort in farcical comedy, was
advertised to spread its pleasing blue-tinted nar-
rative at Melb. Bijou, for the last time, on Mon-
day night. The Bijou is a- house where things
happen suddenly.
At Her Majesty’s, the slim baritone con-
tinues to strike attitudes in yellow satin garments
and proclaims himself as “ The Toreador.” Also,
Roberts, the tired tenor, Lauri, Hugh Ward,
Florence Young, Carrie Moore, and the rest
of the co., bear witness to the truth of the
tuneful yellow gentleman’s frequent assevera-
tion. “ The Toreador,” being a meaty
extract of musical comedy in general,
provides suitable refreshment for a hot and dusty
populace during race-week, and Lauri, doubtless,
is now earning the plaudits of crowded audiences
for his intellectual feat of “ gagging ” his dialogue
with the Cup-winner’s name. Topical allusions
are the soul of wit in musical comedy. At time of
writing nothing could have been more excrucia-
tingly funny than the statement that Saturday’s
Derby was a-cake-walk for A-bun-dance. Present
scribe offers this sparkling jest to the manage-
ment, if it hasn’t been already submitted by a
host of previous humorists.
** * *
The Circus pursues its mad career with
the programme much the same as last week. The
Cycle Whizz occurs at 8 o’clock. A wounded
warrior rescues the Union Jack from a job lot of
Zulus sometime after 9, and the brazen instrument
of Baron von der Mehden emits “God Save the
King” shortly before 11. “ Saving the Colors” is
a soul-stirring novelty in which honors are divided
between a gallant captain of Fitzgerald Bros.’
Flying Brigade and the educated steed that finally
biffs him off the battlefield with its head. For a
time both horse and rider lie slain by Zulus, but
after the howling enemy has fled in triumph, the
horse gets born again and breathes new life
into the captain’s ear, whereupon he gets away
with the sacred flag as aforesaid. There are two
matinees per week at the Circus. The matinee
on Saturday (Bth) will bring Pagel, the Strong
Man, to Melbourne notice. Melbourne has been
working up a fine muscular curiosity concerning
Pagel since he challenged Sandow. When Pagel
starts to toy with tons of iron, and carry every-
thing before him, he will probably have to defend
his title against other challengers, and the question
as to who is Australia’s Strongest Son will loom
large upon Fitzgeraldian hoardings.
THE MELBOURNE GUP CARNIVAL: A
MENU-GARB DESIGN
At the Opera House one or two people re-
appeared on Saturday night, to fill the gap left by
the rough-edged acrobats whose forte was falling
off a table. They fell 22 feet for two nights only.
Then they dropped clean out of the show. Cinque-
valli has recovered his health and dexterity, and
is changing some of his feats every night this
week, in the interests of Cup visitors from remote
districts who want to get as much Cinquevalli as
possible within a limited period.
*# * *
Anderson’s Dramatic Co. took up the
running again at Melb. Royal on Saturday.
Because it was Derby night they played “The
Favorite ” in the belief that they were perpetrating
a drama of Turf interest. “The Favorite” is the
worst sort of horse story to put before a community
which lives in the true odor of Christian gee-gee
and Hebrew bookmaker. Some of the old
racing-plays were saved from scorn and contumely
by their touches of nature. The men who chew
straws, and drop their aitches on principle, could
feel kindly disposed towards “Flying Scud,” for
instance—especially when they had been drink-
ing. But “The Favorite ” was written for such
as walk in darkness—people who don’t really
know the difference between Robert Inman and a
professor of “ dead-birds.” Fortunately the plot
is not confined to training stables, racecourses, and
other haunts of the welsher. “ The Favorite ”is
a tank drama, insofar that Willard drags the
leading lady through, the window of a London
garret, and drops her into a dry cistern to drown.
A small boy, who is the only son of the lady (and
she was a. sporting widow), extracts her from the
cistern with the aid of the police. Consequently
Willard attempts to destroy the infant by the
administration of chloroform lozenges. But he
fails. Willard tried the same cure for coughs six
months ago when Miss Duggan was cisterned.
Now that Miss Guildford' takes the widow
character, Willard repeats the offence.
Darkness shut down upon Adelaide^ Royal
lth the departure of the Sweet Nell co., to
P la 7, A Melbourne The Sorrows of Satan,
which they tried in Adelaide some ago.
Ji 10 -P, add Chambers crudity, A ...
Magdalen,” had previously done well until it ran
up against a Command given by &
Hoy. Way in honor of the Admiral. Now
Judge Way is distinctly serious, and does
n , ofc often visit the theatre and it was felt
tbat a P la y which says and ta Ks
of a „ l " ar ! 1 s ] ‘ mi3t ® s , wonld ect him paintnll .
So “Nell ’’ hurriedly came back, and did all the
things which Magdalen does, without haying the
preliminary sick-sister excuse, or the subsequent
repentance. But then she does not talk about
what she does. And when the other favorites
have been dismissed, she says Good night and
g? 6B home—the sort of thing the real Miss
Gwynne would do. So all was comenien y
ignored, and nobody was shocked. The iivoli,
also, has reluctantly parted with the Anderson
co., “The Down Express,” and “The Mother’s
Curse,” and their other implements of devastation.
A journalist (of all men !) being sick and shortof
food, _
Had the luck to strike the Devil in a philanthropic
mood ;
And Satan made a compact with the hireling of
the Press
Whereby the inky toiler, lately groaning in
distress,
Was raised to the position of a multi-millionaire—
Worth a hundred pounds a minute, and a “ quid ”
or two to spare.
He mixed with costly people in the naicest part
of town;
He bought a choice Delilah with a sum of money
down;
And Satan wanted nothing in return for doing
this—
For shifting Paul, the scribbler, to the realm of
moneyed bliss—
Save the right to book his spirit for damnation in
the place
Where the blokes who write for papers mostly go,
in any case.
He might have been so happy, but he couldn’t
play the game,
And he wandered back, dejected, to the attic
whence he came.
Delilah, poor Delilah! did not grieve to see him go,
For she dreamed of a divorce-suit with the Devil
for a “ co.”
And a red light shone on Satan, and she felt a
sudden dread ;
She shrieked a shriek of horror, and she presently
was dead —
Like her mother, who had shuffled off her pleasant
coil of sin
When the same old sorry Satan called her guilty
spirit in.
Delilah and her momma, having shrieked their
breath away,
The Devil angled sadly for a girl who’d gone
astray,
But was seeking for salvation through the good-
ness of her cheeild.
Well, the child (her name was Mary) perished
Eure and undefiled,
er wicked earthly father, with financial ends
in view,
Drowned his offspring in the river, and the hang-
man put him through.
So, thanks to her “ betrayer ” (him they dangled .
from the rope)
Little Mary’s doleful mother was restored to Life
and Hope,
And then she begged for coppers, in a weak,
despairing voice,
Till Paul, the blighted scribbler, came and made
her heart rejoice.
The babble of Corelli was beginning then to pall,
And the time was past eleven, so they let the
curtain fall,
And Satan didn’t grieve because he’d lost a likely
soul.
He simply stood and sorrowed for the drama as a
whole.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank op Australasia closed anothei
splendid half-year on 14th April, 1902 :
Profits. Dividends. Wr j fcten Re "
off. serves.
Oct., 1895..£41,159 6 p.c. =£40,000 £811,654
April, 1896.. 40,668 5 „ „ 40,000 812,222
Oct., 1896.. 40,400 5 „ „ 40,000 812,622
April, 1897.. 45,375 5 „ „ 40,000 817.997
Oct., 1897.. 40,279 6 ~ „ 40,000 818,270
April, 1898.. 48,546 6 „ „ 48,000 £lO,OOO 808,822
Oct., 1898.. 54,148 6 ~ „ 48,000 5,000 809,970
April, 1899.. 56,312 7 „ „ 56,000 810,282
Oct., 1899.. 119,871 8 ~ „ 64,000 20,000 846,153
April, 1900.. 148,422 9 „„ 72,0001 „„ „„ n
Bonus (staff) 15,000/ /!0 ’ 000 887,570
Oct., 1900.. 151,466 10 p.c. =£Bo,ooo 20,000 939,041
April, 1901.. 145,119 10 „ „ 80,000 35,000 969,160
Oct., 1901.. 140,077 10 „ ~ 80,000 20,000 1,009,237
April, 1902.. 144,468 11 ~ ~ 88,000 16,000 1,049,705
The profits represent £ll Is. sd. per cent, per annum on
the shareholders’funds as at the commencement of the
half-year, which is sufficiently above the average to excite
comment. Liabilities to the public (deposits, notes, and
bills in circulation) are £17,457,571, an increase of more
than £300,000 during the past year. The Bank of Aus-
tralasia holds £6,058,262 in cash and other liquid secu-
rities, having on hand no less than £1,021,340 of British
Government securities alone. Altogether, it has made
wonderful progress, especially during the last three
years, and it has added more to its reserves out of profits
in that period than it ever did, so far as the writer can
trace, during any other three years in all its history.
The 11 per cent, dividend is the largest since 1892.
» • • •
The public is informed that Premier Barton, in
the rare intervals between banquets and jubilations,
found time to inquire as to the prospects of raising a
Federal loan with which to pay off the old State loans as
they fall due. Mr. Barton, as a man who knows but
little about finance, probably made his inquiries none too
intelligible, still the persons he inquired of doubtless'
understood that a loan of some kind was proposed—as
usual. So far as is known, their answers were not reck-
lessly encouraging. And yet there is, The Bulletin
firmly believes, a way by which all the old State loans
could be renewed at not more thag 3 per cent, as
they fall due thereby saving this country about
£1,400,000 a year. Even in the present withered and
dog-eared condition of the public credit this could be
done. The great fall in our securities is not so much by
reason of the amount we owe, large as it is ; the trouble
is that Australia keeps floating new loans, the interest on
which has the same claim on the revenue as the interest
on the old ones. The security is always being adulterated.
The man who lent N.S.W. money 30 years ago felt safe
because the State only owed £2o'per inhabitant. Now it
owes nearly £6O per inhabitant, and his security isn’t
nearly so good as it was when he lent the money. And,
even if he doesn't mind trusting a State which owes £6O
per head and renewing his loan, there is no guarantee
that, before his renewed loan expires, N.S.W. won’t owe
£lOO per head. It is the constant adulteration of the
security that makes the trouble.
If, the Federal Government takes over the
existing State loans there is a feeling that the security
will be greatly improved, because the Federal Govern-
ment has the first call on the principal sources of
revenue, customs and excise. That improvement in
the security means a saving of interest. If the
Federal Government guarantees that there will be
no further adulteration of the security, there will
be a still further saving of interest. If the Federal
Government arranged to take over all existing State
loans as they fall due (with regard to the last batch, an
amendment of the Constitution would be necessary) it
would thus make itself responsible for nearly £200,000j000.
And if it pledged itself to float no new loans whatever,
except for war, which is an unforeseeable emergency,
while any part of this debt existed—to make it a perpetual
first charge on the Federal revenues, and to devote
a certain portion of the saving made in interest to
a sinking fund, it is certain that the Commonwealth
could renew and consolidate the old State loans at a very
moderate rate indeed. The rest of the amount saved in
interest would be available for public works, and that,
and a certain amount of extra taxation, would still
enable Australia to have a reasonably progressive public
works policy. The States, of course, could still borrow
if they wanted to, but their new loans would have to rank
as a second charge on revenue. The Braddon clause
expires in eight years, so it would be out of the way
before the Federal’debt assumed very large dimensions,
and after that the Federal Government would have a free
hand. This arrangement would at least effect a great
saving of interest so far as £200,000,000 of the debt is
concerned ; and as regards new State loans, it could
hardly make things much worse than they are.
• * * .
If the Federal Government doesn’t take over
the State debts the slump in the State credit will almost
certainly grow worse. Prior to Federation the only fear
of the State creditor was that new loans would be floated
ranking equally with his. Now he has also the fear that
new loans will be floated ranking before his. He is afraid
that the Federal Government may start loan raising, and
as it has the first call on the principal source of revenue,
and unlimited power of taxation as well, its loans would


TR 7A.YS.' TRAMWAYS.
The Centra^* l "Hhg & Tramway Appliances Proprietary, Ltd.,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material
gpe - Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p.
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel
Sleepeis, Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical
advice gratuitously rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated
Catalogues and Photographic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different
parts of **■ w ’non application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
The "Finest Rubber Mills in the Southern
Hemisphere have been erected in Melbourne by the
Dunlop Tyre Co., who are now prepared to execute orders
(in any quantity) for Suction, Drill or Air Hose, Packing’,
Valves etc. Mine Managers can place orders with the
Dunlop Company with the greatest confidence as to
quality, price and workmanship. Correspondence
invited*
Norman Godkin, of 31 Qneen-street, Melbourne
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
pijrchase, ‘'big' prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* « * •
A. Kozminsky, 10G Queen-street, Melbourne,
having returned from his visit to England, is now pre-
pared to purchase approved Mines and Mining Properties
situated in any part of Australasia requiring Capital for
Development and Machinery. Only genuine and
legitimate ventures, capable of bearing the strictest
examinations, will be entertained.*
* » * *
A revolution in smelting furnaces seems pro-
bable. The aid of gasoline has not been recognised.
Ernest de Beer, 439 Bourke-street, Melbourne, supplies
forms to suit assayers, which are marvellous in their
efficiency.*
— * * * •
The Insurance News, London, writes of the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society’s latest report:—
“ The Colonial Mutual has had a year of progress and
prosperity. The results in every feature that makes for
success show a distinct advance on those for the preceding
year.”*
« » • •
Wilfley Concentrators are now to be found on
almost every mine of importance in the Commonwealth,
their intrinsic merits placing them far ahead of all
competition. The Austral Otis Engineering Company of
South Melbourne the sole Australasian manufacturers,
report that over 500 of the tables are now in daily use in
Australia, and the sales increasing. In America the
Wilfley is eclipsing all competing concentrating devices,
more than 4500 having already been sold. The Great
Anaconda mine, Montana, alone has upwards of 400 tables
in use, having discarded all other machines. The output
and sales of the Denver factory alone is now averaging 5
tables per day, or close on 2000 concentrators per annum.
The great popularity of these tables is due to their great
capacity, 20 tons per day, simplicity of operation, and
wide range of adjustment, as well as perfection of work
done, which makes them suitable for treating any class
of ore that can be concentrated. Full particulars,
catalogues etc, can be obtained on application to tbs
Australian manufacturers.*
* » * *
There is not a headache in a case of Invercauld
(Scotch) or Brigadier (Irish) whisky. They are mild
mellow, and matured: Bennell and Rennell, Creek St.,
Brisbane. Ina, Coope and Co. celebrated English Pale
Ales.*
• » • *
Complaints of stagnation in the engineering
trade are as rife as ever, but, judging by the large stock
of Refrigerating and Ice-making machinery now at the
engineering works of Mephan Ferguson, Melbourne, he
must expect to do a large business in these machines
during the coming summer season. The prices for all
sizes have been greatly reduced, and purchasers are
invited to inspect and test these Refrigerators before
purchasing. This firm has also introduced up-to-date
machinery for manufacturing bolts and nuts, rivets, dog
spikes and every discription of ironwork.*
• * * *
The best investment in Australia is buying land
at Esperance, Western Australia, the natural port of the
Kalgoorlie goldfields. With a railway, Esperance will
become one of our busiest ports, as the trade with the
goldfields will pass through it. A permanent survey is
now being made. The railway is a certainty. Get in
early and make a fortune by purchasing a few blocks
before the great rush sets in. Price, £20 block; terms,
£1 a month. Write for plans and particulars to The
Perth Land Company, 101 Swanston-street, Melbourne.*
• * * *
About the best Brand for Sheep now in the
market is Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and
is considerably cheaper than any other. It will dissolve
in the scour, and should certainly be used by those who
hope to get a good price for their wool. E. Rich and Co.,
Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
• * * *
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£494,910 is invested in the States. Lowest rates and
prompt settlements.*
* * * *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Price Is. 6d., post free.*
* • * *
“Jimmy S.,” about safety-cage-catches:-—
European Continental mining laws enforce the use of
safety-catches, but British legislators appear still to
regard the counteraction of the influence of gravitation
as smacking somewhat of the Black Art. Only recently,
in Wales, as the engine-driver saw the broken rope sag
on the drum, he knew another cageful of men had been
rapped into eternity. Our collective o’d man was a
Britisher. He ate hot pork with the thermometer creep-
ing to 110 because his old man had eaten it at zero.
Likewise, we ain’t got no safety-catches. When that
cage-rope broke at Hetton (Newcastle, N.S.W.) lately,
what were the odds against men instead of skips being in
the cage? When, some time ago a deputation waited
upon N.S.W. Mines-Minister re the enforcement
of the use of safety-catches, that disgusting pro-
Boer, Griffith, M L.A., remarked that safety-catches
had been compulsorily in vogue in S’Africa . under
Kruger’s brutal regime. Therefore, as the social and
industrial laws of a country are milestones in that
country’s progress, Britain may in this. respect be justly
said to have destroyed a higher civilisation than her own.
Most of our colleries have safety detaching-hooks fixed
near the pulleys. If these hooks were absent any defect
in the hauling machinery would cause the cage, instead
of stopping at the landing, to be drawn to the pulleys.
Then the strain would break the ropes, and the cage
would fall back down the shaft. To illustrate. Let the
blades of a pair of scissors represent the jaws of the catch.
Suppose an angle is cut on the outside of both blades, and
the inside of the blades is hollowed out and made to retain
the rope-shackle by means of a clamp. This clamp is
kept in position by a copper pin placed a little above the
loose rivet in the scissors which are now closed. . An
over-wind lifts an angle on the outside of the blades into
a permanent ring. In attempting to follow, the clamp
severs the copper pin. This opens the scissors and the
rope is detached. Your cage will now be hanging,on the
handles of the .scissors. The breaking of a cage-rope
brings into play the safety cage-catches in the shaft and
the cage is brojight to a standstill by the catches gripping
the cage-guides or conductors. The grippers act on the
principle of a wedge driven into the wood—the greater
the pressure, the better the grip. N.S.W. Coal Mines
Regulation Act is in many ways excellent. . Rule 5,
sec. 47, provides for the daily inspection of all guides and
conductors, head-gear, rope-chains, &c., both above and
below ground, and report of such inspection must be
signed by the examiner. But how often is the rope dis-
carded after a given period of use, even if it is apparently
sound? Mining.engineers often assume 10 as a factor of
safety. Thus, if a piece of timber 2in. thick were found to
be just capable of doing the necessary work the correct
thickness would be 20in. Also, how long would a .wind-
ing engine work safely if its horse-power were not in ex-
cess of the work required of it ? And what are safety-
catches but factors of safety ?
INSIST ON GETTING
JMi
Sweet 5 1 iced/Aarigo;,
L G WINA\ANGO,CAS HMEjyS
*v - 3? MADRAS# ;•
AH CrkeTsaad3roreKgep«%tverywlie?«,
be a first charge on the country’s principal resource .
the States have to renew £200,000,000 of old loans, wit
only a second mortgage on their dilapidated credit to
offer as security, the prospects will be darned bad And
if they have to do this, while the much superior Federal
credit remains unused, it will be a supreme folly.
• • * *
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co. completed
on 30th September, 1902, the most profitable half-year in
its history : Added
to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
March, 1897 £85,480 10 p.c. = £85,100 £3BO Jf6
Sept., 1897 85,307 10 „ „ 85,100 207 418,333
March, 1893 85,728 10 „ „ 85,100 628 418,961
Sept., 1898 85,408 10 „ „ 85,100 308 419,269
March, 1899 85,588 10 „ „ 85,100. 488 419,757
Sept., 1899 85,819 10 „ „ 85,100 <l9 420,476
March, 1900 89,414 10 „ „ 89,255 159 420,635
Sept., 1900 89,389 10 „ „ 89,344 45 420,680
March, 1901 93,608 10 „ „ 93,537 71 420,751
Sept., 1901 93,930 10 „ „ 93,610 320 421,071
March, 1902 100,199 10 „ „ 99,776 423 421,494
Sept., 1902 100,352 10 „ „ 99,959 393 421,887
* * * *
“John C.”: The Oriental Bank collapsed 18
years ago—in 1884. The New Oriental Bank arose out of
its ashes in the same year, but it died in 1892, and has
been dead ever since. Its very name is almost forgotten
now.
* * * *
The Perpetual Executors and Trustees
Association (Melbourne) completed, on 30th September,
a very respectable year :
Added
Profit. Dividends. Written to Re-
off. Reserves, serves.
1891.. £4452 10 p.c. = £3OOO £1452 £18,254
1892.. 3191 10 „ „ 3000 191 18,445
1893.. 1423 8 „ „ 2400 17,468
Loss.
1894.. 204 4 „ „ 1200 16,064
1895.. 197 Nil £5900 9,967
Profit.
1896.. 85 Nil 3777 6,275
1897.. 653 Nil 263 390 6,665
1898.. 374 Nil 228 146 6,811
1899.. 1283 ljp,c.= 375 943 6,776
1900.. 1801 2L „ „ 750 1051 7,827
1901.. 1887 2i „ „ 750 1137 8,964
1902.. 1864 2| ~ ~ 750 376 738 9,702
T.ie reserves consist of contingency fund, £8385, and un-
divided profit, £1317. The gross earnings represent over
6 per cent, on capital, and the net earnings, after pro-
viding for the amount written off, are nearly 5 per cent.
In the absence of any information about what deprecia-
tion may still have to be provided for, it is difficult to
accurately size up the position ; but at all events the
visible reserves are increasing, after making provision for
losses on properties sold, and prospects look better
during the last two years than they have done for a long
time.
* * * ■
In Australia, when any new set of circumstances
turns up, the first idea seems to be to consider how they
will lend themselves to the cooking of the public
accounts —how they can be turned to purposes of
public dishonesty. ’ The N.S.W. State Government has
struck a new dodge, which is just about as brilliant
as the Resumed Area Rent Dodge. It has been decided
that the State Governments must pay customs duty on
their imports just as private persons do. It saves trouble
discriminating between goods, and as the States get the
money back at the monthly division of the surplus, they
don’t really pay anything. But N.S.W. works the thing
this way. It imports a mass of railway material bought
with loan money, and it pays (say) £lO,OOO duty. The
duty is paid out of loan funds as part of the cost of
building the railway. The £lO,OOO (which came out Of
loans) is handed back to N.S.W. at the end of the month
in the distribution of the customs surplus. And ivhen it
comes back it isn’t replaced among the loan funds from
which it was taken, but is used as revenue 111 The
ingenuity of that dodge almost calls for admiration. The
man who invented it would borrow money from a brick
wall.
* * • •
The Brisbane Permanent Building and
Banking 00., Limited (Brisbane), which trades on a
capital of £112,758 and £150,998 of deposits, and is a very
massive concern:—
Dividends and Written Re-
c ’ Dividend Tax. off. serves.
1893 £23 024
1894!.’£3363 2J per cent. = £2814 £1362 22/211
1895 .. 3280 2} „ „ 3172 568 21,761
1896 .. 2642 2* „ „ 2957 1926 19,510
1897 .. 3410 %■ „ „ 2980 2705 17,235
1898 .. 4019 2< ■ „ „ 3289 1262 16,703
1899 .. 4711 S| „ „ 3881 332 17,201
1900 .. 5618 3§ „ „ 4464 315 18,040
1901 .. 6193 4 „ „ 4758 567 18,908
1902 .. 5448 4 „ „ 4761 640 18,955
Judging by the smallness of the earnings it seems quite
possible that there is scope for a considerable writing
down of the assets, and £18,955 of reserves won’t cover
any very extensive depreciation of £257,000 odd of mort-
gages and foreclosed properties. Small as the dividend
is it would be better to reduce it (say to 3£ per cent.),
and devote the amount saved to building up a stronger
reserve, which should be invested in good liquid securities
—and if it is invested outside Queensland so much the
better. Queensland is in a precarious condition, and
neither its mortgages, nor its State securities, nor its
Philp Government are too good to look upon. Certainly
the Brisbane Permanent Building and Banking Co. has
a respectable reserve, on paper at all events, but it is a
very large concern, and requires more reserves than the
average.
* • • *
There is a heavy gloom over the N.S.W. railway
and tramway system—not through decreased earnings, for
the earnings are much more than they were two years
ago, but by reason of enhanced expenditure.
Sept. Sept. Sept.
Quarter Quarter Quarter
1900. 1901. 1902.
Revenue .. £898,825 .. £961,188 .. £955,871
Expenses .. 564,845 .. 663,603 .. 705,123
Balance
for Interest .. £333,980 . . £297,585 .. £250,748
• • • •
The regular New South Wales railway and
tramway deficit is thus shown by the Auditor-General :
Deficit for Deficit for
June, 1896.. £321,690 June, 1900.. £138,317
„ 1897.. 38,545 „ 1901 .. 55,793
„ 1898.. 57,129 „ 1902.. 184,114
„ 1899 .. 14,107
One State at least (Queensland) has a much larger railway
deficit than even N.S.W.’s figures for 1902, and as deficits
are the regular order of things, there would be no need
to emphasise those of N.S.W., but for one thing : The
N S.W. Railway Department persistently neglects to
debit itself with certain outgoings, and presents annually
a rival (and much more favorable) balance-sheet. And
practically every paper in N.S.W. publishes the depart-
ment’s figures, and absolutely ignores those of the
Auditor-General. It is about the most unanimous con-
spiracy of silence imaginable. The result is that while
almost everybody in N.S.W. has heard all about every
other State’s railway deficit hardly anybody knows about
that of his own State. And it is impossible to get up any
effective agitation for a remedy, simply because hardly
anybody knows that there is need of any remedy.
♦ * * »
St. Joseph’s Investment and Building
Society (Sydney) looks a good deal better this year. It
is a long society that has no turning, and in this ease it
seems possible that the turning point has been reached
at last. Joseph, the Building Society, was a sizeable
saint once, with nearly £lOO,OOO capital and something
not far short of £300,000 deposits, but reconstruction has
brought the paid-en capital down to £28,588. The pro
/testable p..
gress of recent years, including the progress made at
repaying deposits, is shown below : .
Business Depreciation Nominal Owing t
Profits. Written off-
Hu M 642 .. £4.618 .. «j •• «M«
“S'Til,'£ :: mw
(Interest on Deposits reduced from 5 to 3 per cent.)
1896 .. 5695 .. 5,943 .. |25 .. 150,017
1897 .. 5152 .. 5,000 .. 377 .. 118,315
1898 .. 3385 .. 3,500 .. 262 .. 110,891
1899 .. 2617 .. 2,600 .. 279 .. 105,438
1900 .. 2985 .. 3,000 .. 264 .. 98,6.7
1901 .. 2473 .. 2,500 .. 237 .. 93,.
1902 .. 3544 .. 3,500 .. 281 .. 89,820
A mortgage of £20,000 and a considerable overdraft have
also been paid off. The St. Joseph Society has £2B 088 of
capital nominally intact, and if it has now got to the e f
of the writing off process (about which there is no
evidence whatever) the earnings, supposing they continue
on the present scale, will represent more than 12 per cent,
on capital. The St. Joseph Society is a mystery, and
has been one for years. According to its owii story lt lias
been a dreadfully embarrassed institution, which had to
obtain a reduction of its deposit interest to 3 per cent.,
and get an extension of time for repayment, and whose
properties were so terribly depreciated that it had to
write off all its earnings to reduce them to something
like real values and yet which earned, since the
writing down in 1895, on the average, 10. per
cent, on capital, an amount which many good societies
whose properties aren’t depreciated fail, to attain to.
Possibly the real explanation is that some interest which
couldn’t be collected was taken into account and then
written off. Anyhow, the Society proposes to resume
doincf new business ; and, so far as its figures show, it is
quite strong enough, with careful management, to do
so ; though, in comparison with capital, the load or
deposits is still rather top-heavy, and more capital is
badly wanted to balance things.
• * * *
The United Insurance Go. Limited (fire and
marine), of Sydney:- Added t 0 Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
-.0Q2 £66,505
1893.. £15,389 12J per cent. = £8528
1894.. 20,053 124 „ „ 8528 11,525 84,891
1895.. 9,352 12J „ „ 8528 824 85,715
1896.. 10,466 12£ „ „ 8528 1,938 87,653
1897.. 9,951 12£ „ „ 8528 1,423 89,076
1898 3 722 121- ~ ~ 8528 84,2:0
1899 " 7 302 5 3411 3,891 88,161
looo.: io :: ;; 6823 a,444 91,605
1901.. 13,809 Written off ” 8560 } “ 9 °’° 3l
1902.. 23,102 10 percent.= 6823 16,279 106,310
The reserves consist of reserve fund, £60,000; reinsur-
ance fund, £17,000 ; reserve for equalisation of dividends,
£5OOO ; reserve for depreciation of investments, £lO,OOO ,
and undivided profit, £14,310. As regards the equalisa-
tion of dividends reserve, it should be abolished and the
amount added to general reserve fund. If a time comes
when the undivided profit is swallowed up, and the co.
has to fall back on the dividend equalisation reserve to
pay its dividend, then it will be time to suspend dividends
pending the arrival of better days; a reserve for the
equalisation of dividends merely facilitates the doing of
an act which is wholly objectionable and undesirable.
Things are certainly looking well with the United
Insurance 00. which is a prosperous and well-managed
concern at all times. The paid-up capital is £68,226 and
the invested funds £164,296, so in point of strength the
United takes a very high place. The income from rents
and interest (£4658) is sufficient in itself to pay a dividend
of 6| per cent.
* * * *
A Works Dept, engineer, sent up to Broken
Hill to measure up the water left in the dam there and
estimate how long it will be before the town must take a
ticket for Adelaide, guessed the same as a recent Bulle-
tin writer—the end of Feb. Certainly, he says, that after
that they might get some water out of the silt which lies
many feet thick at the bottom ; but as Broken Hill
dumps oil the catchment area whatever filth it can t
stand in its back premises, and as the silt probably con-
sists of that filth well mixed, the man who stays there till
he has to drink the soakage water will most likely keep
on staying there altogether.
• * • *
The Tasmanian Loan, Guarantee and
Finance 00. (Hobart, Tasmania) :
Pl> . Dividends and fo'TLe- Ee "
Profits. D i v i d end-Tax. serves.
Sept., 1898..
March, 1899.. £342 4 per cent. =£3ls £27 2599
Sept., 1899.. 349 4 „ „ 315 34 2633
March, 1900.. 351 .4 „ „ 315 36 2669
Sept., 1900.. 344 4 „ „ 315 29 - 2698
March, 1901.. 376 5 „ ~394 2680
Sept., 1901.. 400 6 „ „ 394 6 2686
March, 1902.. 419 6 „ „ 394 25 2711
Sept., 1902.. 398 5 „ „ 394 4 2715
The reserves consist of depreciation fund £2600, and
undivided profit £ll5. If the aforesaid £2600 is really
required to cover depreciation then the real reserve is
only £ll5, and it is increasing at a rate which is almost
too slow to be worth mentioning. During the two years
since the dividend was raised to 5 per cent, the addition
to the funds has been only £l7.
* * * *
B.H. Junction North, whose half-year closed
Sept. 80, had then a surplus of liquid assets over liabili-
ties of £3276. During the six months it spent £3925, and,
as it is keeping its exploring works going, presumably
another call is hatching. When a co. has thus to get in
the money to keep itself alive, it is generally pretty safe
to freely discount the “ splendid prospects ” which are
developed. In this case, it is a fair enough claim that
things look well at 1037 ft.; the ore is at that point richer
than the South’s, and about equal to Block 10’s, but, so
far, it has not been exposed in big and regular enough
bodies to be cheaply and payably worked.
* * * *
Gone are the days at Broken Hill, when on
the Sabbath the prospector went out with a pick,
on Monday came in with a slug and took up a lease,
on Tuesday floated a syndicate—and forgot what he did
for the rest of the fortnight. In 1890-1 680 leases were
paid for, in addition to many at Silverton ; in the last
two years none at all at Silverton, and only 53 at Broken
Hill, and most of the infatuated men who have paid for
them have been sorry before many days.
* * • * *
* Homeward Bound (Yalwal, N.S.W.), report for
half-year states that “ results were normal,” which is a
roundabout way of saying that they were profitless. The
only persons who ever drew divs. out of this mine were
the army of lawyers who acted in the famous attempted
jumping case. As an example of economical mining and
treatment the Homeward Bound is a credit to its man-
agers, but the chance of its ever showing a substantial
profit is remote. The would-be jumpers would not take
it at a gift now, yet at one time jumpers’ syndicate shares
had a big value.
• • * *
Reported that developments at the Shuttleton
mine, near Nymagee (N.S.W.), which is under option to a
Melbourne syndicate, are much beyond expectation. At
the deepest level, the sulphide lode has been struck, and,
as far as driven through (lift, at date of writing, without
there being any sign of the wall), it bulks 24 per cent,
copper 1 It is asserted by men who were familiar with
the Great Cobar mine in the early days, that the Shuttle-
ton mine is a much bigger show in every respect—that
there is more ore and that the general value is much
higher. This assertion is a very tall order. From 1876 to
1889, Great Cobar produced 23,610 tons of copper and
paid £154,000 in divs. Shuttleton may not be a larger
producer than Great Cobar was, but it may be a larger
profit-earner, owing to improved facilities for economical
working.
* * * •
There is a proposal to test Teetulpa, so far the
best of South Australian alluvial fields, for a deep lead ;
but there isn’t much life in the movement.
Moonta mine (S.A.), was started by a syndicate
with a capital of £6OO, and no further money was put
into it. It has returned about £2,000,000 in "divs. Its
future prosperity largely depends on the leaching of
copper out of mullock-heaps.
* * * *
There is talk of introducing the “ pass ” system
at Kalgoorlie—the brutal system under which a miner,
earning the displeasure of some pannikin boss, is sacked,
refused a pass, and thus has the door slammed in his
face wherever he seeks employment on the field. It is
the system of organised boycott that was introduced at
Broken Hill after the big strike; it drove scores of the
best miners thence to S’Africa and other fields, and only
broke down after it had been used for a score of vile oir
petty purposes.
* • •
Bewick, Moreing, and Co., in their report on
the Ivanhoe (W.A.), condemn the treatment-plant for
saving only 85 per cent, of the gold contents, and losing
3dwt., or 10s. per ton. The Ivanhoe treatment costs are
12s. or 10s. less than costs of Diehl process controlled by
same firm, exclusive of the 6s. royalty, so that nothing
would be gained by substituting latter process, even if
2dwt. extra were saved. The report estimates ore
reserves at 380,000 tons, containing 404,0000 z. of gold.
Each 100 ft. in depth is estimated to contain 112,000 tons
pay-ore, so that 150fb. should easily keep pace with the
yearly depletion, or say 200 ft., to allow for possible con-
tingencies. After paying div. due on 29th Oct., co.
should have enough cash on hand to cover two similar
distributions. Estimated profits to end Sept., plus
£17,000 brought forward, tot up £165,000, from which
stand to be deducted prime cost of new battery, £3Q,000,
and div. of 45., £40,000. Oo.’s prpfits now average over
£20,000 monthly after paying for all developments,
renewals, and general charges.
• * * *
Brown Hill Extended (W.A.) has taken over,
from the defunct B.H. Gt. S. 00., lease 1080, of 24 acres,
adjoining Extended’s 12 acres on the east. Both
properties have been under the management of
“Taffy” Johns for years, and the deal has
presumably been made on his advice by Graham
Price, who now controls all the W.A. Gold-fields’ Oo.’s
interests in the State. The rich Brown Hill chute
traverses the N.W. corner of Extended property for a
short distance ere passing into Associated Northern, and
provides too little ore to make a mine. The eastern lode,
which proved poor in the shallow levels and showed some
pay patches to 600 ft., is now being opened up at 700 ft.
Where first intersected the lode is 15ft. wide, of low grade,
but the optimists say that it is “ certain to improve when
driven on southwards.” During co.’s seven years’ exist-
ence shareholders have had lots of excitement for their
money, .as scrip has fluctuated wildly between ss. and
1055., which afforded great opportunities, to those in the
know, of making a bit. The new lease, save for its capa-
city of removing the stigma attachable to a 12-acre pro-
position, is probably of no intrinsic value.
* • • *
Lancefielcl (Laver ton, W.A.), over which
Bewick, Moreing and 00. have held a six months’ working
option, has reverted to the would-be vendors, the option
having been abandoned. The property contains a large,
low-grade lode, averaging 7\sdwts., of which 3 - 2dwts. have
been recovered by amalgamation and-4.3dwts. by cyani-
dation. A local co., with a small capital, promoted by
Dr. Laver, successfully worked the oxidised ore for some
years, and distributed a fair amount in divs., but funked
working sulphide ore of such low grade, hence the
endeavors to sell. B.M. and 00., after fully testing the
sulphide zone by diamond drilling, have come to the con-
clusion that there is no money in the deal, and, not being
philanthropists, have retired from the scene. Most of the
easily mined ore has already' been won, so that the future
of Laver’s co. is anything but rosv.
* * • *
Ex-Mayor Tom Doyle, of Kanowna (W.A.), has
cleaned up a further parcel of 12 tons from his rich leader
for 2220 z. This brings up the total gold recovered since
work started a few months ago to 17920 z. from 54 tons.
The leader is so small that, on the average, six tons of
rock have to be mined to get one ton of pay ore.
• • » *
Boulder No. 1 (W.A.) management is now
actively engaged in testing, under option, the Good-
enough leases of 38 acres, situated at Menzies. The pro-
perty is intersected by two east and west lodes, both of
which give fairly good promise. From one lode, 700
tons taken out from an open cut yielded 20000 z., the
tailings being worth lOdwt. per ton. On this lode no
work has been done below. On the second, two shafts
are being connected by drives on the lode at the 200 ft.
level, the ore averaging 4ft. wide, worth 12dwts. A
crosscut is also being run out at this level to test the first
lode. Whenever explorations are sufficiently advanced it
is intended to remove the treatment plant to the new
leases, as the block next the Great Boulder has long been
regarded as a hopeless wild cat-
South Kalgurli (W.A.) is now being prospected
by a series of diamond drill bores, which are to test the
unexplored parts of the property. It is a pity that the
co. cannot be amalgamated with some of its neighbors, as
the area is so circumscribed that all operations are
seriously hampered, while needless expense is incurred in
filter-pressing the residues merely because there is no
space for settling dams. The possibility of the co. becom-
ing a div. distributor on its present basis seems rather
remote.
♦ * • *
Proposed new co. with £1,000,000 capital to
absorb Oroya-Brown Hill and Associated Northern, has a
lot to recommend it from an economical point of view, as
it would much reduce the cost of management by con-
centrating the treatment works, &c. Against this is the
question whether it is advisable that Bewick, Moreing
and 00. should be allowed to obtain complete mastery of
the mines and market of W.A. ? Should such a scheme
be carried, the co. should be the greatest gold-producer
in the world once it gets into full swing. It is said that
the only hitch to carrying the proposal is, that the
Northern shareholders want 60 instead of 50 per cent, of
the new co.
* * * *
The vast improvement in the return from Mer-
ton’s Reward (W. A.) for Sept., is not taken very seriously,
it being generally surmised that eye-picking has been
indulged in, and that such a return as 14940 z. from 806
tons cannot be long maintained. Kaufman stated that
the mine would be put on the London market in Nov.,
and, of course, everything possible will be done to give it
a good send-off.
• * * •'
A London shareholder in Chillagoe complains
“ that the functions of the London directors are appar-
ently to watch and pray, for they give no sign of life, and
have absolutely no voice in the management of the co.”
He fails to point out that these “ lifeless ” individuals
have been very much alive in drawing fees—which fact
might justify the assertion that their function is to watch
and prey. He is optimistic enough to assert that “in
normal times the railway will justify the price of par for
the new shares.” The railway, without payable mines,
must be a forlorn hope for deluded shareholders. As a
counter-blast to London agitation against Australian
management, Melbourne holders in Lyell Blocks have
determined that they will not keep in the reconstruction
scheme unless they are allowed full control of the opera-
tions at the mine. In view of the series of failures of
N. Lyell under London control, they are quite justified
in insisting on this arrangement.
y * * *
The share-register of a N.Q. bismuth mine con-
sists chiefly of names of well-known Sydney financial and
mercantile men, the majority of whom, if asked to sub-
scribe to a legitimate local mining venture, would show
less courtesy to the person approaching them than they
would to a book fiend. The mine in question is said to be
superior to the Jingera new mine, which it might well be,
and then not have much merit except as a mineralogical
curiosity shop.
• * * *
The retirement of Mr. Hawley from the
management of the Bfiseis creates a suspicion that the
rumors which have been in circulation for some time
past as to the cost of removing overburden being largely
in excess of estimates are well founded. Mr. Hawley is a
relative of Mr. Bowes Kelly, one of the largest share-
holders in the mine. Board declined to give any infor-
mation as to why Mr. Hawley resigned, and as a result
shareholders are tumbling over each other in their
anxiety to get out.
* • * *


in
■
.
IHN
David Jones & Co
“ORIENT” BOOTS.
Special Purchase of American -
made Boots, Black or Brown
Vici Kid,
Price
21/
By Post
22/=
George * Barrack Sts.
TABLE
SA
.ms
St vm>r
) pp
V'
Makes all the Food
more strengthening.
From Grocers and Stores.
Wholesale Agents /—Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
Society
Now that Sandow has left Sydney a great
many ladies are awaking from their dazed condi-
tion to realise that they went to publicly inspect the
naked back and legs of a man to whom they
nadn t even been introduced. They didn’t fully
lealise it at the time, when the glamour of the
strange man’s corrugated stomach was on them,
but now, in their calmer moments, it comes home
to them like a revelation.
* * * •
King David is .apparently determined that
Mrs. Sangal shall die. A short, belated paragraph
was all the notice the Age took of the petition for
reprieve that is being extensively signed through-
out Melbourne and suburbs.
* * * *
Revelations xii. 4 (slightly changed) fits the
case?—* 111 Government ’ s attitude in the Sangal
And the dragon stood before the woman which was
ready to be delivered to devour her ... as soon as it
was born.
* * * *
Writes Medically speaking, no
pregnant woman, however normal, can be held
responsible to the full for her actions. As for the
largely-increasing class of female neurotics, when
they are bearing children, they are as irresponsible
mentally as maniacs. Experts in midwifery know
this. Why do they not come forward and
enlighten the Victorian public as to the possible
true surroundings of the proposed hanging of Mrs.
KEEPING THE PROFIT IN THE FAMILY.
SON-IN-LAW (to father-inlaw, solicitor): “I am going for a divorce from that daughter of
yours, and giving you the case; and between us, old man, I guess will about pull the
little event off.”
Sangal ? When the jury recommended the woman
to mercy, they behaved like intelligent men, if
this was their ground of compassion—which it
probably was.
* * * *
Whatever chance “Osiris” Worthington
might have had of an acquittal from the Mel-
bourne jury last week was finally disposed of by
this passage in Judge Holroyd’s summing-up :
You have heard his language, sympathetic, clear
anxious, and you have seen the little woman in the box
Was he driven away from his wife, or induced to become
false to her, because of the widow ? And did she pay him
as he has allowed to be insinuated, for a certain purpose ’>
That is what has been suggested. And he has allowed it
to be said of her ! Consider the letters of that man,
passionate letters some of them. One of them said :“I
am going to have a night with you, even if it causes me
to stay away over Sunday.” A trifle such as having- to
stay away over Sunday did not matter, and he allows all
that to he put before you, and he allows it to be insinu-
ated that she paid him with her own property. What
sort of a man is that'?
Judge Holroyd’s emphasis on the word “Sunday”
would naturally impress a pure and virtuous jury
(all juries feel persuaded of their own beautiful
niorality), and yet the letter might have been read
in a Worthingtonian spirit. For instance, a
sorrowful accent on the “ even ” would have sug-
gested that the prophet was so much under the
spell of his “Ever, ever, ever Little Isis,” that he
felt he could willingly substitute her for his usual
sacred Sunday duties. Limitless are the subtleties
of the pious mind when there’s a lady, and
especially a clinging little widow, in the case. The
Judge who recites a letter that has been put in
evidence is almost invariably a pronounced advo-
cate for one side or other. Talmage, the raucous
parson-lecturer, used to give two readings of a
suppositious petition from a prodigal son
to his angry father. The old man in the
Talmage anecdote couldn’t read, so he took
his son’s letter round to Bones, the butcher (hard,
stern man, Bones !) who fired it off at him in
abrupt sentences—“ Dear father. I am very ill.
Please send me 100 dollars. Your affectionate
son, John.” The old man boiled with rage. The
idea of a prodigal son ordering his parent to shell
out in that impudent way ! But the old mother
suggested that Bones might have misinterpreted
the boy’s meaning. They took the letter round to
Crumbs, the baker (Crumbs was a mild, tearful
man) and he read—“ Dear fa-a-ther, lam very ill,
please sen-nd me a hun-un-dred dollars, your
af-fec-ee-tion-ate son, Jo-o-hn.” Whereupon the
mollified parent instantly wired 200 dollars to his
repentant Jack.
* « * •
Preacher Worthington, who has now
fallen upon skilly and evil days, recalls the fasci-
nating hero of Besant’s story “In Deacon's
Orders.” Paul Leighan, the Frisky Deacon, had
less brain than Worthington and he sank earlier ;
still he and Worthington and nine-tenths of other
clerical frauds were built on the same lines. The
typical clerical fraud is a tall, slender person with
a pale, clear-cut face, large dreamy eyes, a halo of
hair, and (in business hours) a rapt, upward ex-
pression. He has a clear musical voice, and says
“ Sodom and Gomorrah ” beautifully. Also he
has a heavenly pawing manner, and he paws with
long white hands that are like two pallid garfish
with large white cuffs round their tails. Apart
from the externals—the saintly expression, the
hair, the voice, the halo and the pawing tendency
his bag of tricks is limited and crude.
Worthington’s tales about Isis and Osiris, his
Kosicrucian flapdoodle, his yarn about Mooc,
or Mud, or Moo, who was 107 years old,
would have shocked a capable confidence-man
or a theatrical manager in a small way o,
MORE SHERLOCK MOLMES.
MECHANIST: “ There’s a brougham outside at the stage-door. Which [?]
you chorus-ladies is it for? ”
business. It was about as tbin a pretence
as trying to raise the wind on Pharaoh’s 1.0.11.
But the tall figure and the silver hair and the
stately face and the long black coat did it. No
short, thick, bow-legged parson that The Bulletin
remembers has ever done a great successful
swindle since the days of Titus Oates. The
parsonical fraud depends almost invariably
on his physical attractions and on the
fatherly pawing of rich women. He paws by
virtue of his office, and when a tall, handsome
man has pawed, say, 200 women, it is indeed cold
if he doesn’t come across one who will listen to
his very unconvincing tale about Isis and Osiris
and Mooc. If grocers pawed their lady customers
it would be a poor grocer fraud who wouldn’t get
there twice as soon as the average parson fraud.
Worthington was certainly very clever for
a parson ; but as regards that part of his business
which depended on his brains, not his halo and
his cheek, there are any number of solicitors’
clerks in Sydney who could do it better.
• • * m
A few weeks ago an Auburn (Vic.) dairy-
man had a row with a neighbor over a hen —a
common, no-account chookey hen worth about 2s.
He got so angry that he prosecuted the neighbor
on a charge of stealing that hen, which, it seems,
the neighbor hadn’t done. Then the neighbor
proceeded against him civilly, and got a verdict
for damages and costs. The dairyman couldn’t
pay, and there were bankruptcy proceedings. He
lost his business, his cows, and his prospects, as
well as his temper and the hen. Then he got into
a great row in court over the lack of lucidity in
his accounts. Then, through excitement, he took
a fit (the lawyers had taken everything else), and
his poor wife, who saw him fall ill, took hysterics.
The moral of all which is that law doesn’t pay
anybody except lawyers and Judges.
* * * *
Decided unanimously by the S’Australian
Judges that when the “age of consent” was
raised to 17, the youthful offender of the male
sex was tacitly (and perhaps unintentionally)
given the extra year, too. That is, he can
now plead, up to 17, his age as a success-
ful defence to a criminal charge, always
provided that his' youthful partner in
guilt has been a consenting party.
If, as rumored, anthrax
has threatened the closing of
certain Victorian cattle-yards,
Victorian newspapers, in
suppressing the information,
presumably in the interests
of owners, &c., are guiltv
of a heinous breach of trust
to their readers, and are
moral accessories before
and after the fact to any
fatal consequences that
may occur among un-
warned people. The
disease is so deadly, and
so readily conveyed, that
suppression of the fact
of its existence is com-
parable with suppres-
sion of the fact of the
existence of plague,
or of the landing of a
foreign enemy.
Brisbane has dis-
covered two unplea-
sant things of late :
First, the water in
many deep holes in
the Upper Brisbane
River (which holes
were looked upon as
a splendid reserve in
case of water famine)
can’t be got out unless
expensive pumping ap-
paratus is erected at each
hole to lift the water along to the next;
secondly, that the dead cows can’t be pumped out
of the holes, but will have to be fished out separ-
ately, and that there is a lot more cow in the river
than was supposed.
A Bulletin
correspondent:
There have been
sundry happenings on
the N.S.W. railways
afc different times,
which have been kept
preternatural h'quiet.
A few months ago a
suburban train was
delayed a consider-
able time at Cleve-
land - street tunnel.
The stoppage was so
prolonged that many
passengers thought
that an accident had
occurred. Had they
known that the train
tvas on the “ down ”
instead of on the
“up” line their in-
quiries would have
been more worried
and anxious. It is
#iow some years since
the engine and two
or three carriages of
the Western mail-
train left Redfern
station, and had got
as far as Lewisham
ere they could be
stopped and brought
back to hook-on to
the rest of the train
waiting at Redfern
platform. The shunt-
ingenginesat Redfern
yard are most ably
managed, but owing
to the cramped condition of the locality many accidents are
narrowly averted. If for no other reason, the new central
railway station should he pushed on with as quickly as
possible. When that is completed no shunting will be
needed, for transversers at the dead ends of each platform
will slew incoming engines on to other sets whence they
will Bcoot ahead and hook on to the other ends of their
trains.
* * * m
N.S.W. Law Department established a
peculiar precedent when it cited the Statute of
Limitations against the claim of the irrepressible
Count de Rossi. It sets up another precedent
now in the same case by expressing willingness
to let the case go on if the Count will give
security for costs. Obliging a plaintiff to give
security for costs was one of the points in the
Libel Bill, and chiefly on this account the Bill
was fired out by the Assembly. The Libel Bill
now in hand contains the same clause, and the
Assembly is certain to beat it, as before. But if
Count De Rossi, before his case is heard, can be
obliged to give security for costs, it looks as if
there is nothing novel in that Libel Bill clause,
after all.
* * » *
The frequency of robberies, burglaries,
etc., in Melbourne a while back, led Chief Com-
missioner of Police O’Callaghan to start what he
reckoned was a great idea, viz., the riding round
the suburbs, on bikes, of plain-clothes police with-
out lights, from dusk to daybreak. A dozen of
them have been riding—or say they have—for six
months, hut nothing has happened— not a single
arrest and nary a one of them has been caught
without a light. Scoffers remark that it isn’t
usual to carry lights in the back-yards of hotels—
but this is probably a libel.
A REASONABLE PROTEST.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE “ARGUS.”
Sir,—l wish to protest against the arrangements which
were made for the 10s. 6d. ticket-holders at Melba’s con-
cert on Saturday night. It was a physical impossibility
for an adult to s t in the space (on forms) allotted.


The Australian Paper Co., 194 Castle-
reagh-st., Sydney, is prepared to supply, gratis,
twice per year, to every benevolent institution
and hospital in N.S.W., about two dozen copies
of such publications as Answers, Tit Bits, Pear-
sons, Cassells, &c., &c.— provided that duly
accredited persons will call and obtain delivery.
The papers and magazines will be of back date,
but quite unused.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited.
Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address. —
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-street
or King street, Sydney.*
SILVER STAR STARCH
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Australia’s
Leading Tonic
Beverage.
The divided responsibility of jury and
judge again. Two shearers, found guilty of un-
lawful imprisonment” in connection with the
“Corowa outrage” (referred to in 8., Oct. 18), were
strongly recommended to mercy; whereupon
Judge Pring gave them a long lecture and nine
months, and ordered them further to find sureties
for two years’ good conduct. And now every
man of the jury has signed a petition declaring
that he found the prisoners guilty only ot a
technical offence, and that he believes they have
had quite enough punishment already. I his is
what inevitably will happen if that jury or one
like it gets in the box again to hear a similar case
—it will refuse to trust the judge with so much
power, and, since there is at present no way by
which it can trust him with less, it will simply
acquit.
* * * *
Since the return of “ Mister James ” the
gloomy newspaper building in Hunter-street,
Sydney, has begun to prink and preen itself in
earnest; you can find real mirth and sarcasm in
the S.M.H. now. The Bulletin confesses to
looking with gnawing envy at the mordant humor
shown in these extracts from a Herald report of
the cruise of H.M. 8. Sparrow in the South Seas :
The Sparrow visited five places in the island of Malieta,
namely, Auki, Sio, Uras, Kwi, and Port Diamond. At
the four first-named villages the natives were found to be
hostile towards the Christian religion, and it was deemed
advisable to give them a salutary lesson. Numbers of the
natives were taken aboard and shown the heavy. guns.
They seemed to recognise the awful character of the instru-
ments of destruction, and left profoundly impressed. As a
further warning several rounds of blank shell were fired
into their villages. The ordinary practice shells, which
are non-explosive, were used for the purpose, and
although no actual damage was done, the natives were
very greatly alarmed, and fled in all directions. . . . The
opinion is expressed by those on board the Sparrow that
the lesson received by the natives will be remembered for
the remainder of their days, and that disputes of a
serious nature in connection with religious or other
matters are not likely to occur at the island of Malieta
for some time to come. Very little concerning the Chris-
tian religion is known at many places in the island, which
is an extensive one, and peculiar views are held concern-
ing the belief of the white man.
But bow ill these Yoltairean quips about Chris-
tian shams sit on the grey hairs of the Herald !
Last week’s “ mysterious” shooting case,
where a dead man was found with a pipe clenched
in his hand, and a bullet through his brain, crouch-
ing under a bush in Centennial Park, Sydney, is a
mystery only in a few minor points. The loath-
some business of spying on and blackmailing
lover-like couples in the park has grown rapidly
of late. There is no doubt that the dead man
was either caught in the act of espionage or quite
innocently stumbled across a pair in the dark (a
fresh rosebud was found beside the bush, in a
place where one or more persons had evidently
sat down). An impulsive shot, with the idea,
possibly, of merely frightening the. interrupter,
was too well aimed. If the victim was but
an accidental interloper, the incident is deplorable,
but the occurrence must have a salutary effect on
a growing and detestable practice.
The mild and docile Kanaka, whose sing-
ing of Sankey’s hymns made such an impression
onparson Cuff, the latest nigger-labor jdvocatft
has been at it again. His own aocount is that he
tried to seduce a young girl whom k r ‘ d ' ls
through the bush near Mackay and when she
refused to fall on his sooty chest he threw a 41b.
stone at her, hitting heron the head. Then he
led the horse, with the stunned girl still in the
saddle, into the bush where he lifted her to the
ground, and pounded her head with a 191 b. stone
till she was dead. If this were a solitary horror
it might not count for much, but the Kanaka us a
crory ruffian and the cause of many horrors. Ibe
Kanaka districts of Queensland are pre-eminent y
the region of murder —mostly unpunished murder,
for, as a rule, the search for the murderer among
the mass of Kanakadom is like trying to identity
one grasshopper in a big paddock in the grass-
hopper season.
* * * •
Mr Dan Levy and other M’s.L.A. got a
nasty jar when the item “ £290 Associate to the
Chief-Justice,” was reached m N.S.W. Assembly,
on the Attorney-General’s estimates, for Premier
See announced that Mr. H. S Darley had resigned
office as Associate to his absent father, and he
(See) moved the omission of the item. Mr. Devy
and others had arranged to knock the Associate
end way?, but had shown their hands to the Crovt.
beforehand. So Mr. Darley discreetly withdrew
ere the debate came on.
* • * .
Much trouble has been caused in N.S.W.
Govt, departments by the operation of the new
Postal Rates Act, under which all telegrams and
letters are required to have stamps affixed.
Elaborate preparations and regulations were
made, and the various departments duly notified
on or about Oct. 30, giving actually a whole clear
day to get the stamps. The departments rushed
about, pell mell, received hundreds of pounds
worth of stamps, and proceeded down to the
Govt. Printer, as per circular A 2035671, to get
them perforated “On Service” as per circular
83412563. It was then found that no one had
bothered about the machinery necessary to per-
forate as per 83412563, and so the stamps have to
be used without any distinguishing mark.
Going the rounds of the religious and
semi-religious press of Australia :
A somewhat amusing incident took place in St. John’s
Church, Launceston, on Sunday last. His Ex. the
Governor and Lady Havelock, with the Private Secretary,
attended, and were accommodated with seats in a
churchwarden’s pew. A young lady, to whom the vice-
regal party was unknown, dropped in late, and seeing a
vacant seat between Sir Arthur and Lady Havelock, took
possession of it. Her action caused a little sensation in
the church, but it soon died out when it was seen that
his Excellency had taken in the situation, and was
sharing his hymn-book with the unconscious intruder.
The “sensation ” in the church, the obvious won-
der that the roof of the building didn’t fall in c n
the rash intruder into the vice-regal holy of holies,
the sweet surprise of the religious papers th; t
nothing happened, shows what the old religion 01
the Carpenter’s Son has degenerated to.
The recent summoning of a vice-regal
attache to Melb. District Court at the suit of a
barber who couldn’t get his money (£6 155.) by
any other means, raises the question as to whether
Australian State Governors are not under a moral
obligation to “sack” an A.D.C. when he makes
an object of himself. When Lord Deerhurst got
into money difficulties with Bob Sutton Sievier
(now known as the owner of Sceptre), and Sievier
punched his nose in a Melbourne pub., the lordhng
was cast off by his vice-regal employer, Sir Henry
Loch.
• * * *
At Collingwood Court (Vic.), t’other day,
a laborer was charged by his 16-year-old daughter
with criminal assault. When the girl entered the
box she admitted that her circumstantial story to
the police was a pure fabrication, but gave no
reason for her villainy. The Bench said she
ought to be prosecuted ; but, as usual, nothing
has been done to her.
* * * •
For ruthless sweating this would be hard
to beat. A temporary clerk, employed in a
Victorian Government office since the beginning of
the year, worked over-time equal to two-and-a-half
months, for which no payment was allowed, and,
when his employment ceased, he asked for a £lO
gratuity (a month’s pay). The reply was—“ The
Treasurer regretted . . . urgent need for retrench-
ment . . . etc., etc.”
And here you are again :
A LETTER-CARRIER’S THEFT.
Wollongong, Tuesday.—Charles E._ Barnett, letter-
carrier, pleaded guilty at Quarter Sessions to stealing a
letter from Nowra, N.S.W., post-office.
Prisoner said he was a married man, 23 years of age,
and having a wife and three children. He had been in
the postal service for 10 years, and was in receipt of a
salary of £7B per annum.
He was sentenced to nine months’ hard labor at
Darling-hurst. , ,
His Honor said he was sorry that he could not deal with
the prisoner under the First Offenders’ Act.
« * • *
The great collecting of dead Chows’ bones
in Maoriland ended in & fiasco —the s.s. Ventnor
has gone to the bottom, and the remains of Ah Sin
and Co., to the number of 550, have gone with it.
The Ventnor’s going down, as the story reached
this side, was a most anomalous episode. It was
alleged that it touched on Cape Egmont, and was
Ladly damaged. Then, according to the yarn, the
sinking vessel plodded on northward for 200 miles,
past the harbors of New Plymouth, Kawhia,
Whangaroa, Manukau, and Kaipara, filling all
the time, and sank peacefully off Ilokianga, just
when it was in a fair way to get clear of the M.L.
coast and effectually dodge all chance of assist-
ance. Unless the Chinamen’s bones had driven
the ship demented, the yarn gravely published
in Sydney was a most impossible affair.
* * • *
Parson Cuff, the Dipper man from London
who went up to Bundaberg, and after being enter-
tained by two nigger-bosses, and hearing their
side of the case, saw clearly that the people
who object to Kanakas are shockingly in the
wrong, got off two curious remarks. He said
he was astonished to find so many unem-
ployed in Queensland when there was so much
land (mostly howling desert) available. Then he
went on to say that in fertile, well-watered Eng-
land there are lots of unemployed, and the people
are deserting the land, and how to get them back
on it Mr. Cuff doesn’t know. Why Mr. Cuff
should be shocked because others are as ignorant
as himself is another question.
* • * •
Be his alleged intention of creating in Aus-
tralia a military aristocracy, General Hutton has
told the press that he will not be drawn into a
discussion on the question. Nobody wants him to
discuss it. English official views on that, and some
other questions, are quite well known. The swell
“officah” has no objection to the “ranker” who
knows his “place” —and keeps it. It is the Aus-
tralian ranker—who takes himself seriously, and
thinks, if he is a colonel, that he’s just as good as
any other colonel—who is objectionable. For the
alleged injurious differentiation against Australian
rankers in recent retirements, there doesn’t seem
much foundation. The men retired were, under
the regulations, due to go—rankers or not.
Some true stories of the “Gent.
One” and his methods garnered at
a Sydney police-court: F is up,
charged with drunkenness and lan-
guage. “ How much did you find on
him when he was searched?” whis-
pers a solicitor, confidentially, to the
policeman who has the case. “Four
bob,” replies the policeman. “Oh,
that’ll do, I suppose. I’ll appear for
him. ” And F gets for two florins
the advantage of skilled legal defence.
Then E is canvassed ; his trouble
is drunk and disorderly; when
arrested he had no money, but wore
an (apparently) silver chain. A
Gent. One, in quest of whisky-money,
discovers that the chain is “Bruin.,”
and E takes his chance without
the aid of an attorney of the honor-
able court. Writer, who reckons
that he is not of an exceptionally
obvious criminal type, had occasion
once to attend at a Sydney Police
Court in re a dog. Waiting in a cor-
ridor for five minutes, he was ap-
proached in turn by three “gents.”
One said, “Well, young gentleman,
have you any little trouble that I
can help you in ? ” The second,
more diplomatic, said, “Yes, it is
hard luck ; have you a solicitor ? ”
and insinuated a card. The third,
who at 10.30 a.m. was exhaling
blastiferous grog-fumes off a stale-beer
foundation, shook hands warmly, and
whispered, “ It’s not a matter of
money, my boy. I’ll fix you up, and you can
pay me whatever you’re able to afford.”
From a will lodged for probate in Mel-
bourne last week:
I bequeath unto my dear son John the feather-bed,
bedstead and wire mattress used by him, for his own use
absolutely, and he is to divide with his brother the oil-
painting of their mother’s father. . . . My wife, who is a
stranger in a strange land, will be without a home and
without any friends to whom she can look for protection
and support. She has been a good wife to me, and has
always devotedly endeavoured to make me comfortable,
and therefore I direct that she shall have the use of the
household furniture and effects during her life,” etc.
* » * *
Ballarat (Vic.) produced a new sort of
change-ringer lately in the person of a petticoated
innocent of 16. Having acquired a supply of
bright, new farthings, the damsel borrowed a
sovereign from her brother, and proceeded to
work her little scheme for all it was worth—9s.
ll|d. a-time. She merely requested shopkeepers
to change the sov., and, whenever she got a lmlf-
sov. among the change —as she mostly did—she
would palm it and pass back a farthing, with
the remark that it was a mean thing to try
and rob a poor girl in that fashion. The sweet
young thing was being filled with half-quids and
apologies when an interfering person happened to
see her working the dodge twice, and gave her
away. ,
A returned contingenter created a distur-
bance at an A.N.A. debate on the glories of the
British Empire at Warragul (Vic.), the other day,
by declaring that, “if it hadn’t been for the
money, the little Boer army would have knocked
us into a cocked hat.” There was then a row,
and next day the contingenter was given a month’s
gaol for “offensive language” and fined £5 for
assault. It will be a bitterly ironical circumstance
if the contingenters are to become apostles of anti-
imperialism.
• • • *
The forthcoming “art-union” lottery of
pictures from the recent Bendigo Exhibition has
been advertised in Melbourne shop-windows by a
ruthless display of the prizes available for selec-
tion by winning ticket-holders. If these pictures
—or some of them—have been actually chosen by
the bosses as representative works of Australian
art, it is time that the Government asserted a
right of veto in art-union prize arrangements. An
ordinary buyer of an oil-painting from a gallery
show has at least a little artistic taste of his own,
or a disposition to be guided in his judgment by
somebody who knows something. But the aver-
age prize-winner in a lottery needs protecting
against his ignorant prejudices where pictures are
concerned. The vilest thing that professes to tell
a story on canvas is quite acceptable to him as a
£lOO prize. Left to the business instincts of its
promoters, a lottery that ought to serve for the
encouragement of Art is apt to become a means of
feeding calamitous artists by imposing their
worthless daubs on people who are fairly entitled
to a valuable consideration.
QUALIFYING
‘ A man must be substantially drunk all the time before
he can be called a habitual drunkard within the meaning of
the Act.”— Vic. Divorce Court Judge.
4 rdled l\°/t\e
fcliitodlKwi /. J
« I % /iwJed,.
Hie fc&AwiMp bl°od and
sprlahveii/ "failed'
wKdtk arose '///////'
H\fc kjkktix c<>ur$e f\in\,
//MfflMt • to %ave(\f 4\td • ,/ //J ///,
mw 7 - our’n ww/m
l\c eaid <i°t'f
w\af I'm
falifyiK f°K
A VINDICATION
III! is true T sometimes seek for charms
glaewne re than in my juluCs arms.
Run ow coaid. r, a m a.n of tasle,
§ee tempting oa.in.ties go tovvaate?
thin k not j inconstant prove
gecause these other nymphs l love,
gy them, my fancies may be jed
jgul Julia is my daily bread.'
A[?]


' “enAv’Enmrs
@>V RAINCOATS.
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
-A SET OF TEETH ONE GUINEA
Beautif# and Lifelike in Appearance and Guaranteed Perfect Fit. Absolutely Painless
Extractions and Stopping’s Guaranteed.
Special Attention Given to Regulating Children’s Teeth.
Mr. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R.P.S., Surgeon Dentist, 43 Oxford-st. Sydney
Sold by all Drapers and Hosiers.
KNEIPP LINEN
UNDERWEAR
Porous. Cool. Clean. Unshrinkable
Recommended by, Medical Profession.
Prevents Prickly Heat, Eczema,
Allows the Body to Breathe.
Yic. Railway Minister Bent is going to
out down to 9d. the shilling hitherto allowed as
“tea-money” to overtime-working employees.
A graceful form and well-moulded bust
are essential to perfect beauty. LacU, the
wonderful “Skin Food” is nature’s remedy for
giving back those essentials when lost through
sickness or action of time, and for supplying them
when constitutionally deficient. It fills all hollows,
develops and gives a charming roundness to neck
and arms. Price 7s. 6d. per jar, post Bs. 3d.
Westall Tluest, Toilet Specialist, 229 Bourke-st.
Melbourne. Wholesale, Elliott Bros., Sydney.*
A
GOOD TIP.
(HIMES HEIDSIECK
CHAMPAGNE
A WOMAN’S LETTER,
Sydney, November 4,1902.
My Dear Arini,—
Sydney’s summer is holding off so coldly that
the girl who freckles has, as yet, no need to make
up her yearly lemon-juice-and-buttermilk lotion.
The shadow of the Cup is over us all, and, for the
last fortnight most of us have gone about looking
for omens and trying to dream the winner. A
woman who wanted to put a bit on the Derby,
and fancied Abundance, fairly haunted the con-
fectioners’ shops in the hope of seeing one bun
only in a window. Perhaps she expected that
bun to dance, which would, of course, have been
an undeniable tip. Anyhow, she made her dog
decide the matter. Wrote the names on pieces of
wood and sent him to fetch one. He fetched a
loser, which she backed.
Lady Rawson has been presiding at an annual
meeting of Sydney Mothers’ Union. There was a
large gathering of prosperous, fashionable-looking
mothers, some unmarried ladies, and an Arch-
deacon. Lady Rawson, in her address, said that
the organisation had for its object the raising of
the moral and religious influence of the country
through influence brought to bear by wives and
mothers. It was all nice and copy-booky, but the
working mother will continue to believe that, for
girls at least, the integral part of the higher life is
playing the piano and the avoidance of domestic
service. “As for the boys, the less time you
waste on them,” the working man tells the district
visitor, “ the better. As soon as their wages
reach 30s. a week they marry.” The State, the
medical men and the press have for years been
trying to teach working mothers the proper feed-
ing of infants; something much easier than self-
knowledge, self-reverence and self-control ; but it
is slow, slow work. Last week there was before
the Court a woman charged with neglect of a
State child four months old, which was boarded
out to her. She told one of the doctors that she
gave it wine and water and a biscuit for breakfast.
Irns to a four months’ infant! One constantly
meets wivesof comfortably-circumstanced working
men who proudly tell one that their youngest,
aged one year and upwards, eats some of whatever
his father has—cabbage, stew, dumplings, etc.
Apostle Worthington, essentially a ladies’ man,
was a beautiful sample of originality and private
enterprise. Fascination with him ,was reduced to
a business, and no doubt, in Worthington’s eyes,
nis business was perfectly legitimate; he con-
sidered he gave good value for the money received.
A specially-prepared sample of masculine beauty,
he went to the highest bidder; as long as her
money lasted, she had him all to herself. When
her money came to an end, she lost her precious
prophet.
He certainly did give good value, as men and
looks go. That well-nigh perfect and classic pro-
file was much enhanced by the clearness of his com-
plexion. He was a beauty-man, and it was the
work of his life to stay so ; and any woman who
wants a beauty-man whose sole business it is to
stay so, must expect to pay for him through
the nose. Worthington worked hard tb cultivate
his beauty, spending hours every day over his
toilet, the care of his skin, and the exercise of his
muscles.
In the matter of luxury this moral-less man was
an artist right down to the finger-tips. The bath-
TiT° m - a k '* Temple of Truth,” Christchurch,
Maonland, I am told by a correspondent, would
.< a m? c ' llar , med even Solyman the Magnificent.
The bath was half the room, the floor of the other
half was composed of pink tiles, and up the pink-
glazed walls climbed the sacred Lotus, while the
sacred Ibis,, standing on one leg, contemplated
Eternity, with one eye op k en for any succulent frog
which might stray within range. That ibis was
characteristic of Worthington, who also, while
contemplating the great drama of time and
eternity, kept a very sharp look-out for plump
frogs. When the bathroom was first made, the
builders put in pale blue tiles. Worthing-
ton promptly had them removed and replaced by
the faintest tint of pink—almost an invisible
pink. People wondered why at the time, but
later on came to realise that blue makes the
average female complexion rather ghastly, while
pink tiles throw a rosy glow over forms of
ivory. The roof was of glass, and the sunlight
used to stream through into the room from 10
a.m. till late in the afternoon, and no doubt
turned to dusky gold the rippling hair that floated
around that Sardanapalian washing apartment.
For ’tis said that a select bevy of damsels and the
Prophet would have mixed bathing in scented
water, and afterwards the damsels would massage
the Prophet with much platonic tenderness.
“The rest of the place was on a par with the bath-
room. The drawing-room looked out on to a little
garden close, where a riot of wall-flowers, stocks,
and others flowers distilled perpetual perfume. The
furniture was all of chrome yellow, with hangings
of amber silk. It had a bright, electric effect.
In the bedrooms, Worthington’s taste ran to
uniform colors, with flowers to match. He had
flowers everywhere. There was a pink room;
pink roses festooned the bed; curtains, blinds,
everything, were pink. The toiletware of pink
had sprays of pink water-lilies, hand-pain ted,
across it; and even the chairs and furniture were
pink-enamelled. There was also a white room
and a golden room. In the latter the Prophet
himself reposed between curtains of old gold silk,
with a bunch of primroses held in a patent clasp
vase near his beautiful nose all night.
Worthington never drank to excess, and though
he had splendid cigars, smoked them only in
moderation. His food was delightfully cooked
and served in the best possible style, but he never-
theless ate little. His one failing was an insati-
able Blue-beard or Henry VIII. greed. All the
energy that the ordinary well-fed, robust man
dissipates in a dozen vices Worthington threw
into this one.
Once he had established a hold on a woman’s
.affections his position was unassailable—his fatal
beauty did its deadly work. No woman ever
threw him over; as long as he chose he kept
them, spite of relatives or anyone else. But that
ardent passion he inspired was his undoing: once
lie broke away from a woman, she whirled round
m a yellow cyclone of raging jealousy, and made
the prophet Worthington sit right up.
The beginning of Worthington’s Australasian
debacle was his desertion of the lady with whom
in Maoriland. Despite all her mistakes
and failings she was a gentlewoman in every
sense of the word, and when Worthington
harried her out of his life he drove away his mas-
cotte. Up till then he had a beautiful home a
large and growing congregation of enthusiastic,
well-to-do people, and one of the most beautiful
mates ever seen in Christchurch—a nursery of
beautiful women. He was booming with a
.boom till an insatiable hankering for
a Christchurch girl caused him to break with
Sister Magdala ; then his discourses fell off
in quality, and a great wave of sympathy for
the tall, lovely, white-haired woman with the
young face nearly swept him off his feet His
congregation split, and Sister Magdala drew
half of it away with her. What remained with
him grew smaller, and the Temple got into diffi-
culties. But apparently poor Sister Magdala
could not live without him, and the estrangement
drove her to despair and death. The news of her
suspected suicide alienated the last of the dwin-
dling band of fanatics that had stuck to the white-
han-ed scoundrel through thick and thin, and
YVorthington shortly afterwards left Christchurch
with a single ticket. Now he’s in gaol. Long
may he stay there J There are no pink-tiled baths
at Pentridge.
Eugenie Duggan, as Roxane in “Cyrano de
8., ‘ travels ”on her smile through the lines of
the besieging army. Eugenie’s smile is really one
of her valuable assets. A neat bit: “I said I
was going to see my lover, and they bowed and
let me pass. If I had said ‘my husband ’ they
would not have let me through.” As Roxane
Miss Duggan wears some beautiful 16th century
gowns, and has a Juliet-like balcony-scene with the
long-nosed impersonator of her lover.
Not a month passes but the flannelette night-
gown claims its child-victim. It is a pity that
when the Tariff Bill was before the Australian
Parliament the importation of this danger to child-
life was not absolutely prohibited. As a matter
of fact, it is all cotton, and no warmer than plain
ordinary calico, nor does it last nearly as long;
but the average ignorant woman who puts it on
her little ones is under the impression that it is
something akin to wool, and therefore a good
thing to wear next the skin. The latest tragedy
occurred at Warrnambool (Vie.), where a child
playing near the fire in a flannelette nightgown
received injuries which caused her death after a
few hours of hideous suffering. About a year ago a
number of little girls were playing “Nuts in May”
in a Redfern (Syd.) street when a man passing lit
his pipe. As he threw away the match one of the
dancing children came in contact with it, and her
flannelette frock immediately burst into flame.
She, too, died after several hours of intense
suffering. 1 lannelette is about as safe a thing to
wear as a vest of gun-cotton, and much more cruel.
To a lady of the Harris family belongs that
fiery suite of opals on which there has been much
newspaper paragraphing. They are the finest lot
of the gem ever collected in Australia, and all-
brooch, pendant, necklet, bracelets, etc.—are set
in diamonds. The collection is valued at £l2OO.
For this same opal-acquirer the same firm of
jewellers awhile ago “executed” a diamond suite
valued at £lO,OOO.
Longstaff’s portrait of Marjorie Williamson has
been loaned by Sydney Gallery to that of Mel-
bourne and is now on view in the city of the Cup.
My Brisbane correspondent writes :
“ Queensland’s Governor, sensible man, is
setting the fashion for ‘cool clothes in hot
climates, and affects flannels and a Panama in-
stead of the regulation top hat and frock coat
for out-door functions. That was his costume at
the Melba fSte given by the Mayoress in Brisbane,
and his aide and private secretary followed suit
A really sensible, useful Governor.
“‘Take a throw,’ said Madame Melba in
French to the dove-like little Sassoli as they
stood trying their luck with ‘ Aunt Sally.’
‘No, Madame,’ answered the wise child ‘I
might possibly hurt my hands.’ The little lady
evidently puts her art before her amusements.
Have you noticed the peculiar length and supple-
ness of the harpist’s thumbs ? They bend almost
double and are quite unique. Melba thoroughly
enjoyed herself at ‘Aunt Sally,’ and beat the
Vice-Regal party easily by knocking off the first
cocoanut, while their missiles flew wide of the
mark. The public, hugely diverted at seeing so
many high ones shying sticks at a wooden
figure stood round in a solid pack. By-and-
bye Melba sat down to a well-earned cup
of tea at a tiny table with Miss Webb, his
Ex s English sister-in-law. Up came the crowd
with a rush, and gave the A.D.C. and Sec-
retary Wingfield no elbow room at all, as they
strove to hand along the milk and sugar. Finally,
Madame gave up the attempt at tea as hopeless!
and took to writing autographs instead, until
j n v J s^n o cards gave out, when a wonderful
doll, dressed in blue satin and point lace, a fac-
simile of Nellie Mitchell at her first concert, was
brought out and raffled for. Then the fun began
in earnest. All Brisbane crushed forward with
florins, and Madame’s purse overflowed into her
lap a glittering heap of silver. Captain
Harman checked the numbers, and the Governor
barracked for new recruits. Nellie Melba took
10 tickets and won the doll herself, and it is now
on view in a Queen-st. window, presented again
to the hospital, and ready to make more money
for that receptive institution.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent
The golfers, rallied from all the linked' quar-
ters of the Commonwealth, have kept Sandring-
ham noisy for the past two weeks. The she-golfer
is often a strident and a strenuous creature, who l
talks about her ‘ wretch of a partner ’ and the
‘decent fellow she played with last,’ and nods
cheerily at her chums, and affects not to care a
hang for anything or anybody, while rigidly
excluding all but the very upper crust from her
company. The picture of one keen petticoat
champion doing a record ‘drive’ is not a taking one.
She ch oses her spot elaborately and spreads her
big-shoed feet out in acrobatic style. The drive
wrenches her body round, twists her skirts and
shows a great strip of hose. That is a mere trifle.
The distance of the ‘ drive ’is the thing. If it
disappoints her, ‘Swear for me,’ she asks the on-
looking man.
“Day after day, during the contests, swagger
people watched the play. The Clarkes and
Huttons joined the spectators and kept a record
of the scores. The approved golf dress seemed to
be a scanty white shirt, a spacious white blouse, and
a Panama hat rigidly skewered into place. Safety
pins decorate most of the skirts. Once, these
articles were among the secrets of the toilette, but
golfers have made them an outward and visible
sign of usefulness. Mrs. Hariy De Little—one of
the Western District champions—is a figure of
much bulk, but plays a rattling good game. Miss
Geva Stanley is the beauty of the links. Mrs. C.
Fairbairn lets style go haug, and plays with mas-
culine vigor.
“ Miss Calder’s scoring card at the end of three
fiercely-contested rounds at the Royal Melbourne
Golf Links won her the gold trophy and the title
of Lady Champion of Victoria, last Friday. The
slender, petite player left all the brawny Junos of
the links out in the cold. Wiry qualities won the
day.
“ Flemington, on Derby day, was not nearly
roomy enough ’for the peacock tails of fashion.
Every fair she required an area of two yards to
herself for adequate upholstery display. She
didn’t get it, and hand-painted, gauzy, billowy,
whipped-cream, frothy, effervescing skirt exten-
sions had to be whisked up to save hoof-massacre.
The most grotesque rig-out was remarkable for
its scant top-storey, its low-necked transparent
yoke, and its profuse skirt embellishments, its
reefs upon reefs of rich golden chiffon frills.
There were miles of material in the skirt, and
scarcely ajyard in the bodice. On the other hand,
one high-stepping dazzler in butcher-blue linen
revealed a neat, long pair of buttoned boots —all
of them from the skirt southwards.
“The two vice-regal pen occupants were in the
blues—sartorially. Miss Shylie Blue, a bustling
and energetic young person, proved the ex-
ception, in string - colored voile. Little state
was observed by either pen-fold. Naice people
were beckoned up in friendly fashion, and swag-
gerers of the General Maria Gordon type dropped
anchor there without as much as ‘ By-your-leave.’
Melba slipped (it would be rude to say she
bumped), along the Terrace at 3 o’clock. The
Clarkes rose in a body and presented arms. The
queen singer saluted valiantly. Lady Silverlocks
tenderly shelled off the dear one’s driving cl dak,
and beamed upon her hot, active face delightedly.
“ Melba looked prosaic enough in her large-
patterned silk-muslin, narrow of waist and
abruptly wide of hip. Her plumed, black hat did
nothing to dispel the impression that off the stage
the Diva is a stoutish woman, who doesn’t know
how to dress, and lacks both elegance and deport-
ment and distinction of manner—though, all the
same, she is shrewd, humorous, kindly and
generous-hearted. Her tall, fair sisters looked
twice as graceful at the Derby as their famous
relative, in pale flowery-muslins, bediamonded
with Valenciennes. The Clarkes and Melba get
on well together because Pa Clarke plays the
’cello and worships great artists, his daughter
sings well and has been complimented by the
Diva, Aide Browning takes singing lessons, Secre-
tary Vallange has a tuneful wife; so altogether,
their incense is more acceptable, perhaps, than that
sent up from the Big House, where Literature,
with a big L, is more priced. Aide Richard
Nevill, not at all literary himself, hits it off
excellently with the great singer, and it was to
him and Byron Moore that she found most to say
when she wandered down with the Mighty to see
Lady Tennyson put the ribbon cleverly on
‘Abundance,’ a dark-skinned horse, not as hand-
some as some Derby winners and like nearly
everyone else at Flemington that day, moist and
greasy-looking with the steamy heat.
“ Lady Tennyson was slim and summery in blue
crepe and toque of white poppies; Lady Rawson
showed as a qhiet, old lady in black; Mrs. Way
(S.A.) had a rather dashing dress of lilac, topped
by a black hat. Her daughter, Miss Blue, in twine
voile with knot of blue on the bodice, is a tall,
smart Australian girl, upstanding and go-ahead.
Vic. State Governor’s daughter was a contrasting
type—quiet, dainty, brown-haired, with wisteria
in her hat and frock, matching the blossoms in
color.
“Gov. Havelock (Tas.) made friends by the
dozen, and button-holed young and old to pace
the Flemington decks. A real little stage
admiral is Gov. Havelock—a small, butty figure
with an inclination to limp. He wears a curious
pen-wiper patch of bristles under his lower lip.
The rest of his rugged, humorous face shows the
clean sweep of the blade. He talked to Melba in
a blithe strain. For her part she had a jolly-dog
air for all the casuals.
“ Carrie Moore, in blended cherry and pink,
and hat blazing with geraniums, looked like an
escaped cigarette-girl from comic-opera, clothed
by a Parisian modiste. Such eye-flashing, teeth-
twinkling, hand-waving, figure-posing are seldom
seen off the stage. Baronet Clarke, squiring the
vivacious Carrie, matched well with his radiant
companion, so far as bright colors went—straw
hat, gray tweeds, tan boots, blue vest, blue tie
with pink stripes 1
“ Young Mrs. Miller, just back from her honey-
moon, sported cream canvas, with wheel-rosettes
of black and white lace and dashes of green.
Voile, the color of cold, milky tea, was popular at
the Derby, also shades of blue and mauve. Mrs.
Cobb Cox had green sijk-muslin -with twine-lace,
Lady Williams all red, the Madden sisters
tussore-silk dust-coats, trailing skirts, flowery
hats, frilly fichus—far too ‘Soppily’ clad for
belles of buxom type.
“The limp, floppy ‘Derby’ woman of 1902
pinned her faith, or rather her figure, to a pen-
dulous, low-down frontage, hitherto regarded as
characteristic of lubras in European dress.
Dickens’ ‘ Mr. Merdle,’ who chose his wife as the
owner of a ‘ beautiful bosom to hang diamonds
on, ’ would nowadays find dinner-parties the worst
possible occasion for advertising ‘Mrs. Merdle’s’
begemmed bust, which, thanks to present style of
corset, would waste its snow and glitter, in'Lap-
land, down below the table damask and maho-
gany. The lanky, long-armed woman (indifferent
for anatomical reasons, whether busts are ‘ worn ’
near chin or hip level) should bless those respon-
sible for prevalent pouched trailing Btyles. The
* woman, ’ however, is foolish to divert her
abundance to—of all places in the world —the
commissariat region 1
“ Roly-Poly Forrest was the chirplest politician
terracing it at the Derby. He oounced from
group to group, cracking jokes, and fanning him-
self with his silk beaver. When he sighted
Melba he cannoned up the steps and pocketed
himself in the V.R. box beside her. Toby Barton
was blither than usual, and trotted a small child
about the lawn. The M'Eacharns are berthing
the Bartons at Kew. Malcolm’s devotion ta
boss politicians is noteworthy. Ooin Bill Lyne
had no mate at the Derby. He played a lone
hand, and looked sad at not putting his faith in
the ‘ Abundance ’ of things.
‘ ‘ One old lady at the Derby 7 removed her bonnet
early in the day and revealed a nice, neat widow’s
cap. This was sensible. The weight of some
hats is an appreciable quantity. What with wire
pads and much-mounted millinery, the weight
some small heads have to carry for a stretch of
several hours causes a Bevere strain. Headaches
are developed and the eyes ache as a result.
Gossamers make matters still more unbearable, so
the aged dame who removed her top lid at the
Derby was a woman much envied.
“ Baby deaths are the cause of three fashion-
able families being thrown into mourning and
retirement this Cup time.
“‘What will your duties embrace?’ said one
well-meaning matron to Better-Not Wally when
congratulating him on his Royal appointment.
‘ Oh, many things.” ‘So it isn’t just an honorary
post?’ ‘ Partly,’ wearily murmured Wally. ‘You
will go to England to see ? ’ A faint ‘ Possibly.’
“ Miss Florence Strong, daughter of ex-Mayor
Strong, of Melbourne, who was last week married
to a son of Mr. Brunton, M.L.C., is one of the
handsomest girls in the South —tall, fair, with
clear-cut features, a ‘Gibson girl.’ Miss Strong
has three brothers, all prominent in their respec-
tive spheres of life. The eldest, Dr. ‘ Bob ’ Strong,
is a well-known physician, and was formerly
equally famous as a Carlton footballer. Another
brother rowed a powerful oar in several inter-
state contests.
“ Much gold harness attaohes to this trim two-
in-hand, and the bridegroom supplemented his
exchequer the other day by a £lOOO win on
Lieutenant Bill. There was more sentiment
than turf prophecy in the wager, the bride having
a brother who is known as Lieutenant Bill.
“The civic world likes a dressy spectacle, and
had it at the Mayoral hop on Thursday night.
The Mayoress, in virginal white, like many other
matrons, frou-froued to the dais that had a dark
jungle and a Latin-mottoed centre-piece for a
back ground. The Clarkes made a timely arrival.
The Tennysons were duly late. The fixing of the
formal set was a momentous work. When Excel-
lency Tennyson and Toby Barton led their part-
ners much astray and then extricated them from
the labyrinth, there was nearly a cheer, distinctly
a clap. The ordeal over, the unproficient dancers
withdrew to the dais and mopped their beaded
brows.
“ The three Tennyson boys, as seen at the circus
t’other afternoon, came nowhere near the dapper
form of that meerschaum mannikin, the Hon.
Charlie Hope. Simple, rather homespun lads to
look at,, with their large noses, big white teeth,
and thick, light hair, worn longish. Lady
Tennyson fussed over. her chicks, motherlike, re-
assuring them (to their ill-concealed scorn) when
guns went off during the performance. The
Tennyson, himself, still leaned goutily oh his
stick, while. ‘ Wally ’ made talky-talky for the
benefit of Miss Duff, and Aide Nevill, as usual,
trotted out his ‘ ways of pleasantness ’ to break
the monotony for the French governess and her
three charges.
“ At the opening of the Federal Exhibition, Pa
Ure conducted, his son sang, and the stirring
Australian hymn (the only solo on the programme)
was composed by pretty little Miss Gladys Ure,
and sung by her brother. Nice, old Jules Joubert,
pleased that his 51st Exhibition was an ac-
complished fact, led round short Gov. Clarke and
long Aide Vallange, and, if he felt any pride in
the fact that lie was the beauty of tne trio,
managed to hide his glee.
“ Harcourt Beatty in the ‘ Sorrows of Satan ’ is
much to be pitied. Satan, in swallow-tailed coat
with stripes down his trouser-seams, can’t be
taken seriously, even though he has little panes of
glass on his top eyelids so as to make ’em gleam
eerily, and though red limelights have a habit of
suddenly lighting up his face. In appearance
Harcourt Beatty makes up as a young Jew.
Byron Moore won’t feel extra pleased, surely, at
this bogie-man production scaring sinners just at
Cup time.
“ A witty Frenchwoman is holding a series of
‘ Spring Chats ’in Melbourne. The old practice
of a lecture of a literary character for students
of French is abandoned in this case, and the
English ear is attuned to Gallic idioms in a
conversational treatise enlivened by anecdote.
The ‘ chats ’ have come to stay, it seems.
“Senator Glassey—the Bananaland lady’s man—
is about to be presented with a little souvenir
from some of theshe-clerksinthe Federal Service.
The gallant Senator befriended the girls in ques-
tion by establishing their claims to higher
salaries.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


WHAT THEY CURE.
T)r Williams’ Pink Pills don’t cure everything —but they do cure all diseases caused by bad blood.
Sere enty diseases caused by bad blood-and Dr. Williams' Pink Pills cure them all because they
remove the cause :
Anaemia
Headache
Neuralgia
Nervousness
St. Vitus’ dance
Palpitation
Indigestion
Poor complexion
Skin complaints
General debility
Lumbago
Sciatica
Paralysis
Rheumatism
Backaches
Kidney trouble
Liver complaints
Fainting fits
Irregularities
Women’s Ailments.
Doctors agree that these are all diseases of the blood-and that’s the reason they are all cured by the great blood-
builder and nerve-tonic —-Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
_ " _ _ <t r wreak ” savs Mr H. Chalker, Kingsdale, Goulburn. , “ Headaches and
.a- Goulburn * sudden noise set my heart in a violent flutter. My head ached so badly that
indigestion made my life a bur • > , appe tite and after meals I suffered from oppression on the chest, and
stooping down and a &p(1 mv sight was affected. My haggard face showed
bordered act bad wL the cause of all my trouble-so I took Dr Williams’ Pink Pills They
that my blood, was aisoraereu. , 9 a a ii mv veins with such good red blood that my complicated com-
SJS KJETSTo„”»d""h. b Xh“ .‘S&or'indUioc." „„.ou 3 e xh.u„ti.u and h,a,t
palpitation—thanks to Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.”
Sold by retailers and by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney-2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d. post free.
Or. Williams pink Pills for pale people
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Melbourne police don’t seem to understand
the sanctity of politicians. A public man has to
get very, very drunk indeed to be arrested in
Sydney.
Owen and Equity wed readily in Sydney.
Justice Owen was Chief Judge in Equity, Langer
Owen Bar leader in Equity, and now H. P. Owen
becomes Master in Equity.
The only benefactions made to Sydney
University bv N.S.W. Governors were £3OO by
Earl Belmore'and £025 by Earl Beauchamp. The
gap stretches from 1870 to 1001.
Has Herbert Syme, manager of the Age’s
commercial dept., been admitted to partnership
with his dad ? The paper no longer publishes its
owners as “David Syme and C 0.,” but “the pro-
prietors of the Age. ”
Since the Argus called him the Napoleon
of politics, Premier Irvine has become more grave,
reserved, and liverish than before, and is obviously
modelling his deportment on the bilious Bona-
parte invented by Julius Knight.
George Anderson, M.L.A., in N.S.W.
Assembly:
“ God has endowed me with an amount of fortitude
and strength for which I must be thankful to the Al-
mighty, and my progeny who come before me.”
Murphy, the Scotland Yard detective,
lately appointed to the N.S.W. force, has been 25
years in the London police. He retired from it
on a pension of £Bti a year, and now receives 12s.
a day from the State Government. A cheap
officer if efficient.
Weary Willie Trenwith isn't always
asleep. At one of his meetings a hostile elector
breasted up to the table and yelled, “You are
two-faced, Trenwith!” “ Well, you've not got
two faces, anyhow,” retorted William, “or you’d
have left that one at home.”
Yic. Speaker Duncan Gillies at times
forgets and imagines himself again on the benches
showing his venom to the Laborites. The other
night one might have heard from, the chair, when a
labor member interrupted, “Chair, Chair! This
is really too bad, Mr. Speaker ! ”
There are several ways of filling in a
Parliamentary recess. Speaker Holder’s way,
after stowing his wig in camphor, was to rush
back to S. Australia, and there resume his “local
preaching” in little Methodist country chapels.
And Brother Ronald likewise goes West “totake
temporary charge of one of the goldfields Presby-
terian churches. ”
Adelaide Quiz on 0. C. Kingston s school-
days.
The observant, wayward child grew into a strong and
studious youth, who excelled in his studies, particularly
mathematics and history, and whose prowess in the
cricket field and whose determined and rough play in the
football arena, together with a natural aptitude to engage
and excel in a fisticuff encounter, made him even then a
conspicuous figure.
VICTORIAN EVANGELICALISM—A
LEADING LIGHT.
“ The happy blending of fact and imagina-
tion is, to my mind, the art of the ideal speaker.”
—Mr. George H. Reid to an Argus interviewer.
’Tis so ; yet George, for want of tact,
Has stupefied the nation— /
For none can tell George Houston’s fact /
From Reid’s imagination ! £
A. B. Worthington’s “ wonderful ora-
tory ” that held Sydney womenfolk spell-bound
was evidently, to misquote Dailey, “not classic,
but ornate,” judging from the coster grammar of
his letters to “Isis.” “Had you left a third per-
son alone and foregone the petty over-valuation of
their sympathies which is valueless.” “ Nothing
that one can do can put them outside the lodge so
surely than by seeking spiritual guidance outside
the lodge.” The style, however, might have been
chosen to match poor little Madame’s own
childish incoherencies.
Mr. Quong Tart, the Sydney Chinese
merchant, is a native of Australia, having been
born in Botnbala district of Chinese parents. He
was brought up as a child by a sister of Mr.
Want, Q.C.; in time married a European wife ;
and is evidently a most influential person—a
P.C., a Supreme Court Judge, a representative of
the State Cabinet, and the Mayor of Sydney were
present at the demonstration of sympathy to this
gentleman because a till-thief had hit him on the
head. Quong Tart is said to be a Presbyterian
by religion, and to have leanings towards the
ministry.
Thus “ Drink-cure ” Caulfield to an impu-
dent conservative who asked him an insulting
question during his recent Eastern Suburbs
(Melbourne) electioneering campaign :
I did not expect that the atmosphere of this hall was
going to be polluted to-night by the mephitic breath of a
sewer rat who has evidently been raking the gutters and
Bcraping the cess-pools of personal malignity. The vile
creature who has put that question to me is a big. blear-
eyed, blatant, bibulous, bestial fellow with the foul
instincts of a buzzard, the small soul of a shrivelled
shrimp, and the brains of a chimpanzee.
There now! How wonderful that a man of
such eloquence always fails to get into Parliament.
A humorous feature of Vic. politics is the
Tory member for St. Kilda, printer M'Cutcheon.
Boomed out of all proportion, through having
captured a seat held by the other side for 12
years, he got .swelled head so badly that, a few
days after the House met, he delivered a lecture on
“Impressions of Parliament.” Reform has made
Vic. acquainted with strange politicians. t
When Brown, M.H.R., beat Wise for the
Canoblas at the first Federal election, the Free-
trade press (with its tongue in its colossal cheek)
prophesied great things of Brown. But where is
Brown now? When first elected to N.S.W. State
Parliament, Brown was remarkable for an Abe
Lincoln habit of tying up his boots with binder-
twine ; but that was evidently all the Lincoln
in him. Though a very good local member and
local preacher, and a good-hearted, earnest fellow
to boot, Brown is an utter nullity in Federal
politics.
Speaking in S.A. Assembly, a member
referred to the glorious picture drawn by Premier
Jenkins of the prospects of the Northern Territory,
as comparable with the gorgeous word-painting in
the “Picturesque Atlas of Australia.” Now,
when Jenkins first dawned upon the S.A. horizon,
it was as a Yankee book-agent, dealing in the
“Atlas” as his principal line, and, somehow or
other, he doesn’t like to be reminded of the fact.
Wherefore he viciously commented on the “sneak-
ing and crawling ” methods of that member.
Monsieur Hennessy, the visiting apostle
of brandy and backer of winning gee-gees, feels
somewhat aggrieved at the suggestion that he
knows more about race-horses than about vine-
yard matters. “They had only hear me talk
horse,” cries the French expert, “they should
hear me talk phylloxera—hah ! ” One gathers
from the enthusiastic Hennessy that when he lets
himself fairly go on the subject of vine diseases
he leaves nothing more to be said. The ability to
pick Oup winners at sight is a minor accom-
plishment.
Cuthbert Robert Blackett, Victoria’s re-
cently-deceased Government Analyst, was member
for years for Fitzroy in Vic. Leg. Assembly, and
was perhaps the most silent member who ever sat
in that Chamber. He did not speak half-a-dozen
times ; and for a while he had as his colleague the
almost equally taciturn R. D. Reid. Mr.
Blackett, a very highly-skilled chemist, was a
most kindly and unassuming English gentleman,
and conscientiousness personified. When giving
evidence of his analysis he would not deviate a
hai'r’s-breadth from the truth to help either Crown
or prisoner.
Paris Nesbifc, K.C., writes to the Adelaide
papers that, failing any encouragement from the
Govt., he is going to establish a bureau of justice
of his own, devoting every Friday to it. In the
morning legal advice will be given gratis to all
who cannot afford to pay. In the afternoon the
K.C. will sit in his own little Court and arbitrate
between all-comers, such services to be free to
all, whether they can afford to pay or not. The
Ministers, on being asked to provide a room,
replied that they hadn’t one to spare. “ Much
they care about justice!” says the scornful
Nesbit.
When Dr. Moorhouse, present Bishop of
Manchester, was a young man in London, he had
for a lodging-house chum, Lord Robert Cecil,
then a struggling journalist. On Salisbury (for-
merly Cecil) coming into power, he instructed
Moorhouse to preach before Queen Victoria at
Balmoral, and later on made him successively
Bishop of Melbourne and Manchester. While
King Edward was recently convalescing on his
yacht, one of Salisbury’s last official acts was to
cause Moorhouse to be sent for to preach before
H.M. Moorhouse had ability, but a powerful
friend is a great help all the same.
Prime Minister Barton to a Herald
reporter: “The Pope does not speak English, so
Cardinal Moran had to act as interpreter.” Surely
such a shining light of the University a,s “ Toby ”
should be able to carry on a conversation with a
classical scholar, if only in “dog-Latin.” Some-
thing of this sort, for instance : —His Holiness :
“ Ave, Australiae fili dignissime ! ” Toby : “ Ave
sanctissime pater.” H.H. : ‘ ‘ Quid agunt mei
populi in Australia.” Toby: “Optime, sanc-
tissime pater, habent jobbes omnes et optimos.”
H.H. : “Bene. Hie est medallum tibi. Es puer
bonus. Quidbibes?” Toby (eagerly): “Vinum
effervescentem.” H.H.: “Bene.” (To Car.
Mo"sm): “ Ferre pocula magna.”
Swinburne, new member for Hawthorne
in Vic. Leg. Assembly, though a cousin of
Algernon Charles, the poet, prefers “the lilies and
languors of Virtue,” believing as he does that the
highest kind of enjoyment is presiding over a
chapel tea-fight. He is a staunch and aggressive
follower of John Wesley ; but, as he is about the
highest authority on irrigation south of the line,
he ought to make a capital member of a House
whose chief duty will be in dealing with the
question of how to put the late Hugh McColl’s
grand “ canawl and watter scheme ” into practical
Working order. Mr. Swinburne is married to a
daughter of the late Rev. Jones-Hamer, Dr.
Bevan’s predecessor in Collins-street Congrega-
tional Church.
THE PESSIMIST.
" Pa said I was too young to get married.
Another three months and I might change
my mind.”
“Yes, that’s what Pm afraid of.”
Premiers Dibbs and Reid, on returning
from trips to England, were full of yarns about
the titled people they’d met. Prime Minister
Barton is garrulous in the same direction. When
Parkes made a similar trip, his talk, oil return,
was about Carlyle, Tennyson and John Stuart
Mill. Miss Parkes retailed anecdotes about rank
and fashion, but dad’s conversation kept in the
other channel.
The Australian Agricultural Co., now
pressing the See Grovernment to take over its
N.S' W. estate of some 500,000 acres at 10s. per
acre, was floated nearly 80 years ago with a capital
of a million sterling. On the first share-list
appear several historical names—among them
Lord Brougham and Joseph Hume.
eight members of the Commons, with the Solicitor-
General and Attorney-General, figure on the roll.
Mason and Williams were the unlucky
names and Hamilton the mnscotte q,t last Vie.
elections. Two-members bearing the first men-
tioned patronymics were rejected and two Hamil-
tons were elected. No less than four Melbourne
lawyers got “plucked”—W. H. Williams, Dr.
Metnerney, Jack Isaacs and A. Robinson ; but
the “Devil’s Brigade” got almost even on the
whole—barristers J. E. Mackey, F. Hickford and
C. Hamilton being elected.
A rude man to The Bulletin
Had read so many paragraphs concerning the sweet-
ness and light of Miss Vida Goldstein, Melbourne’s repre-
sentative woman-suffragiste, that I rushed to hear the
young lady deliver a lecture on her recent trip to
America and Back. Expected to find a silver tongued
goddess, a smiling Venus of debate, whose grac ous,
thoughtful eloquence would make a mere man blush for
the political selfishness of his sex. After hearing Miss Vida
talk for an hour or two, I came to the conclusion that
th°se smart, young, up-to-date advocates of Rights are
just the daughters by adoption of the ancient repellent
female in blue spectacles and awful boots who banged the
platform with her brolly—like Peggy Pryde’s caricature -
when I was a boy. Miss Goldstein is really no evidence
whatever of the alleged spread of the Emancipation
movement. She talked the baldest journalese, like a
machine. The thread of her discourse was obviously
being reeled off her memory, and when she introduced
“ flowers of oratory ” they were such stiff, artificial blos-
soms that she might, it seemed, have torn off a petal and
cut cheese with it. Making due allowance for her being
new to the descriptive-lecture business, I would say that
Miss G.’s platform style is hopelessly narrow, and her elo-
cution so hard-set in its aggressiveness as to be beyond
remedy The trim-built positiviste has a hard, clear
voice which absolutely defies contradiction, and refuses
to be coerced into anything approaching a humorous or
genial utterance. It is most severely emphatic where
prepositions and conjunctions are concerned. Miss
Vida’s “ and ” strikes one almost as forcibly as her “ but,”
and when Miss Vida “buts” you feel that there’s no
appeal against her statement of the case. No doubt she
is a most satisfying advocate of Woman’s Rights to
Woman’s Rightefs. Anti-Suffragists will only shudder at
her verbosity and prescribe marriage for her complaint.
A blue stocking is little the lessj dismal for being a silk-
embroidered sample.
James Gordon and his half-century-old
grievance were recalled by a petition presented
the other day to Q. Assembly. Long
ago, when N.S.W. extended to
port Darwin and the Gulf of
Carpentaria, the legend goes
that the Government at Syd-
ney offered a handsome re-
ward for the discovery of a
port north of Rockhamp-
ton. Gordon and others
fitted out a vessel and
found Port Denison, but
when they got back to
Sydney the separation of
Queensland had taken
ilace. The Sydney Govt,
refused to pay, on the
ground that Queensland
was now out of its juris-
diction ; and the Brisbane
Govt, refused on the ground that it never
offered any reward ; and James Gordon and
his mates have been vainly asking for their
money at intervals ever since.
Judge Rogers, of Friedman case
celebrity, is a most humane and thoroughly
conscientious man. He was Crown Prose-
cutor when murderer Arclierwas sentenced
to death a few years ago, and right up to
the time that Archer was hanged he
called at the office of the attorney who
defended Archer and asked him, day
after day, if he could unburden his
mind by telling him that the verdict
was a right one. It was a great relief
to him when, a year later, evidence
was forthcoming conclusively proving
that Archer had committed the
murder. The clean-shaven Judge
has a face which would admirably
serve as a mask of Comedy, and
when, years ago, he appeared to
prosecute “ Capt. Moonlight ” for the
Wantabadgery murder, that arch-ruffian,
who had not seen Mr. Rogers before, thought
that he was smiling at him, and loudly accused
him of jeering at his misery. Rogers was so hurt
that he almost cried.
Narandera (N.S.W.) Ensign re “The
Bush Naturalist,” the late H. J. M'Cooey :
Poor Mac. His was indeed a checkered life. Born
some 5Q years ago in the neighbourhood of Campbell-
town, he was the son of Mr. J. M’Cooey, engineer and old-
time railway contractor and builder of most of the
bridges within a 100-miles radius of Sydney. Being
wrapped up in study, Mac. went from Goulburn High
School to Sydney University, where he took his M.Se
degree, and just missed that of M.A., for which he would
not try a second time. He entered the civil service, and
was for some time C.P.S. in one of the northern towns,
qualifying the while for the office of Police Magistrate.
He soon tired of office drudgery, however, and quitting
the service, threw in his lot with the nomads, in whose
ranks he remained ever after. Although somewhat
eccentric, Mac. was a bright scholar, and a most interest-
ing conversation dist, and there were few subjects upon
which he was not conversant, his favourite themes, next
to that of the naturalist, being history and theology. As
a naturalist he stood high on the Australian plane, being
acknowledged in all parts of the world, and he held a
chair in the Queensland Linnaean Society. Mac. was
also widely known as a contributor to The Bulletin and
many other papers, including the Ensign. At the time
of his death he was making for Melbourne with a view to
patching up a shattered constitution. Rest his soul!
JULES JOUBERT, THE VETERAN
EXHIBITIONER.
A Melbourne paper couples the name of
Duncan Gillies with that of Peter Lalor, and re-
marks that the fat, little, shiny bachelor will be
the “second Ballarat pioneer” to wear the
Speaker’s wig in Vic. Leg Assembly. Gillies as
a “pioneer” is an amusing fiction. He was a
non-working man from the very start of his life at
Ballarat—a “ lazy digger,” in the pioneer sense of
the term. Probably he was the first, and certainly
lie is the last survivor of the men whose con-
stituents gave them cash support ere payment of
members was introduced. On his election for
Ballarat West, the then young and windy Duncan
—an indefatigable talker in those working days—
was presented with a lump sum of money and a
share in one of the original mining co.’s.


WATSON’S WHISKY.
GrO TO BEEX.L-
KiO[iANl> for l'relty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeih-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
66
11
D.C
L
WHISKV
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Aboriginalities.
To Oontr i iiUTOßS. —ln the ease of ethnological and
natural history items , etc., always give date and
place of experience ;or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
ON THE BURDEKIN.
PROSPECTOR : “ I say , boss, let’s have 50lbs. beef.”
BOSS (weighs it): “Let’s see ; 50lbs. at 6d. a pound is”
PROSPECTOR: “ Jerusalem! I’m not buying the blessed station. If that’s the price of beef what's
the price of salt?” BOSS: “ Ninepence a pound.”
PROSPECTOR: “Well, now, that’s reasonable. Ell take 20lbs. of salt, and you can chuck your
cancered cow into the cask again.”
Letter from a W.Q. pastoralist, read last
week in Q. Leg. Council: —
“ Since last March we have had 25 points of rain. Only
two skeletons of horses left. If we get 2or 3in. of rain
we might have enough cattle left to pay our debts. . . .
Beef I have not seen for months. Our meat-supply con-
sists of kangaroo, bear, and an occasional opossum, when
we can get one fat enough to eat. ... I am enjoying
excellent health. I will be 73 years of age this day week,
and I walk on an average 15 miles a day,"puiling dead and
bogged cattle out of water-holes, and iiving like a black-
fellew on what I can shoot—and camping anywhere on
water.”
* * » •
“ Tramp ” : Came across a cocky near
Taroom (Q.), t’other day. He was feeding his
horses on a mixture of boiled priekly-pear and
bottle-tree chaff in a trough. Had a basin in his
hand, and a spoon, and I’ll be hanged if he wasn’t
having a feed on'the stuff himself. Said it wasn’t
half bad, and asked me to try it.
* * * *
Kangaroo rat is now a common dish among
the S. W. Queensland selectors. Some folks say
it resembles fowl. The same has been said of
bandicoot and iguana. It’s really wonderful what
fine flavor Queensland selectors (poor wretches !)
now find in bush animals they formerly reckoned
as vermin.
A picture of the drought. A parson left
St. George (Q.) to visit a certain station-manager
in the district. On arrival at his destination he
failed to find anybody about, but in his search
came across a crow stewing in a kerosene-tin.
Being hungry he quickly set to work to finish the
meal. When the divine was three-quarters through
with the crow, the manager put in an appearance,
and on seeing the parson eating his dinner he
fought him a right royal battle. The crow was the
last on the run.
* * * *
Item from a South Queensland paper :
‘‘Things are very busy in the prickly pear line.
JVIr. Brown, who has the good luck to possess a
large area overrun by the pear, sent away large
quantities by rail. At present he is executing a
large order of 100 tons for Rosewood.” The land
of wool, maize, wheat, beef, mutton and sugar, “is
executing large orders in prickly pear ! ”
* * • *
“T.H.U.”: Trees that had apparently
died of drought have, since the late rains, sprouted
vigorously from butt to branches. Nature seems
to have reserved the sap for the roots, to save the
trees until the rain came. This probably explains
why previous severe droughts have failed to leave
their marks on our forests.
* * * *
“ W.J.” ; Recently saw a cookie chopping
down his stable-roof—boughs and straw, but
mostly straw —for fodder for his few cows. Yet
he was talking about buying a separator ! Grit,
faith, or damfoolishness ?
* • • •
“ Corvus ” : Re stock thriving on willow
leaves B. 18/10/’O2). Nothing new in
that. lor years the Gunnedah (N.S.W.) Common
Trustees have cultivated willows and lopped them
for the stock every summer. Cattle especially
i w . on this food, eating every part except
the big limbs. Besides being useful for stock, and
ornamental if planted on steep banks, willows
keep the driftwood back at flood-time, and, by
catching drift-stuff, gradually fill-up and bind the
banks.
* * • •
Since that little earthquake shook up
Adelaide a volcanic disturbance has been noticed
in Lake Eacham, Herberton district,
Q. The water in the centre of the
lake is bubbling up, and occasionally
there is a violent commotion. The
lake is believed to be the crater of an
old volcano. It has never been
fathomed in the centre, although 800 ft.
of line has been used. There are no
fish in it, though fish are plentiful in
otherholesand streamsabout the neigh-
bourhood ; nor are there any birds in
the vicinity, though the lake is sur-
rounded, even to the water’s edge, by
dark, dense scrub. Aborigines also
shun the place.
“Across the N.S.W. border at Swan Hill
and right down to Bendigo the country ” (writes
“Toubur”) “is bare as a metalled road. These
mallee cookies have now hardly a kick left, and
absolute famine is on their heels. At one place I
saw a family of eight breakfasting on pollard and
treacle; at another I supped on rabbit-and-wal-
laby stew, and at another I was offered iguana.
These people have hardly any clothing left. At
one place the children were clothed in bagging,
with green-hide hats. Most of the men are away
‘ looking for work.’ Tamers looking for work !
it makes one smile.”
* * * *
“W.G.C.” enlargeth upon the artesian-
water-question :
. The natural conservation of water in the earth’s crust
mN.S. W. and Queensland is very great. This big water-
course flows slowly from its enormous intake-areas of
105,000 sq. miles (which are largely in Q.) to its outlet,
plainly in the sea-bed of the Great Australian Bight.
Artesian rock has been proved to exist in N.S.W. under
an area of 62,000 sq. miles, and taking’ an ascertained, and
in all probability a minimum, thickness of 30ft., and a
proved capacity of 2Jgals. to the cubic foot, we get the
bewildering result of 130,000,000,000ga15., equal to an
annual flow of the Darling River for over 50 years !
It is easily conceivable that enough water might be
tapped by a great increase of boring in Australia to pro-
vide permanent rivers and creeks in the interior, from
A JUSTIFIABLE
SUSPICION.
LANDADY (to stranger from
the bush); “ Perhaps you
could find amusement in
ping-pong?”
STRANGER: “ No, thanks. I
don’t like them Chinese
fakes. Pm for rum and a
White Australia every time.
which systematic irrigation could be carried out. A
portion of the water of those rivers might possibly reach
the sea, as did the waters of the rivers that laid down
the cretaceous water-bearing deposits in remote geological
periods ; and a cycle would thus be inaugurated from the
ocean’s supply back to the ocean, again to be evaporated
into clouds to fall in rain, and to pass as before into the
water-bearing rocks. In any case, with a greatly in-
creased artesian outflow there would be greater evapora-
tion, increased moisture, and a far more equable climate
than now prevails. Although the ancient rivers have
been obliterated, the rainfall on the existing higher lands
is sufficient to supply the underlying porous strata with
an enormous volume of water, the full utilisation of which
on the surface above is only dependent upon the simple
mechanical means at our disposal for tapping it, followed
by a scientific and systematic treatment for irrigation.
As regards irrigation, it is not claimed by the best
authorities that all artesian water is adapted for all crops.
Perseverance and experiment are necessary in all success-
ful human achievements. In the arid States of Western
America there are now thousands of acres under success-
ful cultivation by artesian water ; but it took time to
induce settlers to irrigate. Now water and soils are care-
fully analysed, climatic conditions noted, and the whole
business reduced to a science.
• * * *
“ Jarrah ” : The stench of carcases in the
wake of travelling mobs of stock in Victoria is
overpowering. Big flocks are dogged away
towards grass-country, but only a fraction gets
there, and the public roads, except where the
police are here and there vigilant, are in a shock-
ing state. Farmers, in some cases; remove the
rotting remains in their own interests, but a
notice I lately dropped across, “Berry yore ded,”
showed that at least one worm had turned.
» * * *
“Rebel”: The method of burning-out
stumps described by “H.G.” (B. 15/10/’O2) could
only be successful in loose, dry, sandy soil, which
would admit just enough air to keep the fire
smouldering. Doesn’t “H.G.” know that when
covered with ashes overnight a kitchen fire will
keep alight till morning ? In stiff clay soil this
method wouldn’t answer; and, besides, there is
danger in it, as many a mysterious bush-fire has
started on a windy day from some half-buried,
smouldering stump, supposed to be extinct weeks
before. Also, stock and humans are likely to
walk over the top of an apparently cooled ash-
heap and sink knee-deep into a miniature vol-
cano. This way of getting rid of stumps is on a
par with a certain “labor-saving” style of tree-
grubbing. The side-roots are cut through, and
the rest is left for some strong wind to accom-
plish.
* * * »
“ Jaynol ” : Re stump-grubbing by fire
(“H.G.,” B. 18/10/’O2). The actual process is
this. The ground is loosened round the stump,
which is then lighted with kindlers ; and as soon
as the fire has caught a good hold the stump is
earthed-up. This is called “stooing,” and the
practice was introduced from M.L. about 10 years
ago. With dry stumps the method never fails.
The earth becomes a sort of kiln, and when the
combustion is completed there is nothing left but
clay burnt to brick-like consistence.
“Chass”: Re burning-out stumps. I
have set fire to box-trees on the Wimmera (Vic.),
and have known the underground roots to burn
for over a fortnight, the fire, in some instances,
running the roots for nearly half a chain, leaving
a hole like a rabbit-burrow. I thought this was
owing to good burning timber and dry climate;
but since then I have seen stumps and roots
similarly burnt-out in wet parts. At Condah
Swamp (recently drained and sold by Vic. Govt.),
farmers m burning rubbish ignited the peaty soil;
the fire burned down about 4ft., and was only
extinguished with difficulty.
• * * *
A Richmond River farmer averaged £7
(seven pounds) each for fat pigs, in Sydney, the
other day. Apropos, the crow is not the smiling
king of the Spring in the bush districts; it is the
“bhoy that pays the rint.” Just now, he is
largely fed on the corpses of starved cattle; the
collecting of which, for the purpose, almost
rises to the dignity of a new industry.
“ Chass.” : He the notion that hairless-
chested men are thieves (6 x 8 8., 18/10, ’O2). ’Tis
t’other way about. A few centuries ago our
ancestors were all hairy and all thieves. Within
recent times they have cast off most of the hair
and some of the thieving.
The bu slim an is the man with “lots of
time to think ”; and that was why a
public inquiry had once to be held out at
the Back o’ Sunday. There wasn’t any
use for the pub. now that the Govt,
wasn’t giving the rabbiter the only rich
harvest he ever had (“Ah! they
were the times!” the old-age-pen-
sioner recalls); so the boss of the
township reckoned it was just the
sort of place the Govt, ought to
buy for a hospital. The Coir.e-
along Hospital Committee was soon
formed, and the boss was chair-
man and treasurer and several
other things, and the population
of seven or so were the members ;
and, in their letters to the
Minister, so graphically did they
picture the tribulation of Come-
along because it didn’t have a hos-
pital that at last a Govt, grant
helped the boss to pocket a cheque
for £5OO. The old pub. hasn’t been
opened as a hospital even yet ; but
that has nothing to do with the boss,
and Comealong of course long ago mys-
teriously ceased to worry itself about
the matter.
“ Laher ” : A newchum story. My
mate and I were stripping wattle in the
road-paddock, he up one tree, I up an-
other. We noticed a big goanna lazily
crossing the road, and at same time
comes along a man with a swag.
Goanna stops. Swaggie catches sight
of it, and stops too. Looks about, sees
us up trees, drops swag with a yell, and
is up nearest tree in record time. Goanna goes
away grinning.
» * * *
“ John B.” concerning some Q. aboriginal
matters: —
lie the boast that there could be got 800 aborigines to
work in the Q. cane-fields (8., 12/7/’O2). The Q. system
is really taking away from the aborigines all they hold
dear and subjecting them to nil the horrors of
slavery. Wherein does the deporting of blacks to Frazer
Island differ from the Govt, allowing an Arab slaver to
deport them to Arabia? What right but the slaver’s
was the Government exercising when handing over a
gin to Lord Lamington to take to Scotland, possibly to
die of consumption, or, in any case, to lead a miserable
life among people she never could assimilate with ? Or
will the Govt, explain how it is (as shown by the 1901
report) that all its prosecutions have been of aliens or
people in humble condition. The so-called “ agreement”
is only used to enable the police to bring back
the runaways ; and the blacks' wages are anything
their employers like to give them'. Also, there is
no guarantee that the payment or clothing clauses are
complied with, and any employer can have an “agree-
ment” fixed-up by taking a black before another J.P.
employer. Add to this, that the person who extends
charity to, or employs runaways is liable to merciless
prosecution under a law that is a perfect replica of the
old U.S. “ Fugitive Slave Law.” The way the cat jumps
is clearly shown in this extract from the 1901
report“ Furthermore, the agreement is a protection to
many station-managers and other employers of labor, in
that their ‘boys,’ when properly signed-on, cannot now
be decoyed away by their neighbors, unless the latter
wish to run the risk of rendering themselves liable to a
prosecution for harboring.” Could this be beaten by any
acknowledged slave-holding country? To see the work-
ing of the system is like a chapter" from “ Uncle Tom’s
Cabin.” The late Peninsula horror is one of its conse-
quences that will probably be saddled, as usual, on the
mere instruments of the system.
REMOTENESS.
‘"I think we're going to have some rain soon,
Hinnessy! Did you see the ring around the
moon last night?”
“Oi did, sir, but only from a distance. Oi was
a couple o’ miles the other soide o’ the creek
at the toime.”
“ Lar.,” re big shearing tallies :
We only hear what “ guns ” shear in good sheep and
wild “ cuts.” Power shore 315 clean-pointed, hare-bellied
ewes and “ rosellas,” at Barenya. A flock was being cut-
out that day, and all hands worked nine hours. Writer
shore with the Livingstones, last year, at Lerida, N.W.Q.,
where they didn’t average 130 a day on ewes. The
Shadow (J. M'Mahon), who shore 227 in one day, and 1140
in a week, at Dagworth, near Winton, N.W.Q., is now
shearing at Wirrah (Lomar), and his highest tally is 122.
T. Gribble, a N.W. ringer, who shore 186 at Midkin,
Moree, in ’97, shore 900 in three weeks at Wirrah. He is
now in Mungindi hospital, where he has had twenty-two
prickly-pear-boils lanced. The p.-p. causes a painful
blind-boi), with the circumference of a half-crown. The
men, armored in basil, and wearing basil gloves, are
shearing in sweltering heat, under a low-roofed galvanised
iron shed. Board costs £1 9s. a week. Who says shear-
ing is not a healthy, romantic, money-making profession !
IN MBMORIAM.
H. J. McCOOEY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Gone, gone beyond the pale of earthly care
And everlasting strife ;
Beyond the dreads of Doubt and Dumb Despair
That mar our life.
Beyond the furthest sunset bathed in gold
To peace he earned-and won ;
Beyond the range of rovings uncontroll’d—
And Nature claims her son.
As Nature’s own her strangest paths he took—
The ways no fortune bars,
The Earth—to him a priceless, open book
'V i th seas, and streams, and stars;
With never-ending, silent glories vast
Of shadow’ and of sheen.
The secrets of the hoary, voiceless Past
The distant, dark Unseen,
The links, and lines, and countless causes grim
Through each succeeding age
Were in I lie Open Book engraved for him,
And limned on every page.
Gone, gone beyond the land where Genius gropes
In guises all unknown ;
Beyond Life’s vain regrets and fallen hopes—
And Nature claims her own.
I voice me here a strange, but true, regret,
And write a tender line
For one to me a stranger always— yet
An old, old friend of mine.
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.


MARTELLS
“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
“Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
Th 3 Lancet.
RING . . .
MAKERS
V
Choice Diamonds and
Pearls, £8 Bs.
All Diamonds, £l6 16s.
“ Fx & R ”
5-stone Diamond,
J-Hoop, £5 ss.
Pearls and Diamonds,
£lO 10s.
J@P" These are very special value.
GEM EXPERTS, RING DESIGNERS
LARGE GEM IMPORTERS, GEM EXPORTERS
Save all Middlemen’s Profits, and so save Buyers 331 per cent, on purchasers. We have been making Kings
for over 60 years, and we know how to give BEST VALUE at LOWEST PRICES;
London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.
23 Hunter Street, SYDNYTV.
PROVIDED FOB.
SHE : “ Why didn't you go to the rear?"
HE : “ Oh, well, doncherknow, somebody must stop at home to provide for posterity. ”
During the drought, numbers of Q. cattle
have been found with their tongues cut out, and
this outrage has been attributed to swagmen who
(it was alleged) finding the beasts dying of thirst,
took their tongues for a meal. Mounted police
patrols, however, have recently supplied another
and (probably) correct solution. Bush rats and
iguanas are probably the real offenders, for the
nose and jaws of the dead beast are often found to
be gnawed and the tongue is drawn out through
the jaws—not through the gullet as would have
been the case, had swagmen been the offenders.
* • *
“ W.M.8.” : As illustrating what can be
done in drought-time by manuring. A farmer in
Temora district (N.S.W.) has 500 acres under
wheat, the seed for most of which he drilled
into the ground, accompanied by super-phos-
phate, leaving strips unmanured. The sowing
was in the middle of March, and the manured
growth is healthy and coming into ear at 21ft.
high, while the unmanured is but a few inches
high, weedy and unstooled. To 201 b. seed 501 b.
of super-phosphate was used. The rainfall is
about sin.. for the year.
* * * *
Judge Docker’s Grafton decision is that
cattle-dogs may be sooled after trespassing stock,
but mastiffs not. In the case, a mare was killed
rushing a barbed fence, but the Judge nonsuited,
as they were cattle-dogs that pursued. He added
that if they were mastiffs and worried, plaintiff
would have succeeded.
* * « *
“Yarrum”: The new religion says it is
no more necessary for man to go into water than
for a fish to come upon land and cover itself with
dirt. Yet, this is just what the flathead does;
and it is one of the longest livers of all fishes. I
LOVE IS BLIND.—(A Wayback Sketch.)
have frequently surprised flathead above high-
water mark, indulging in a sand-bath.
“Cuss” to The Bulletin from “way-
out ” :
The Sydney daily papers give me a pain whenever I
tackle the news under the heading of “ The Weather.”
They put me in mind of a confiding youth I met in the
train some years since between Sydney and Mt. Victoria.
He told me his father did not believe in any young man
settling down for life till he had enlarged his views by
travel ; hence he, as he shortly intended getting married,
had bought an excursion-ticket to Bathurst in order to
see the world before taking the fatal leap. The Herald
and D.T. have about as expansive ideas re the geography
of N.S.W. as had that boy about travel, as is shown
every day in their columns. I pick up a paper
six days old, and note “Break up of the
drought in the far west,” and my soul thrills
with joy, till I read on and discover that it has rained at
Wellington or Goulburn. Then I curse. It would seem
that those papers know nothing of the country west of
the Darling—it is not in their regiment. Out here in this
God-forgotten N.W. corner of the State we had from
Aug. ’9l to Aug. ’92 exactly 80 points of rain. During the
whole of ’9l we had 440 points, and so far this year, to
date, 167 points. There seems not the remotest prospect
of any further fall in the near future, and another three
months of this awful drought means that there will
not be a hoof left alive. At Connulpie Downs,
45 miles from Tibooburra, they have had only one
inch of rain in 14 months, and the few remaining
woolly skeletons are dying like flies. Stations that
a few years ago shore from 25,000 to 70,000 sheep
this year can muster but from 10,000 to 13,000 and ten
good men could have shorn every jumbuck in this corner
and not then have made an average season’s wage.
Things will be worse than ever for the working class when
it does rain, as scores of scrub-cutters and men employed
at wells will he knocked off and there will be no other
work for them to do. Tibooburra has been deserted by
every man jack that was able to get away, and the popula-
tion bow consists of a very few business people hanging
on to their property, a score or so of discouraged dry-
blowers! goats, and more children in proportion to the
adult population than you can shake a stick at. There is
an attendance of some 70 odd at the school, and I counted
the other day 14 in one mob that will he ripe for the
schoolmaster’s strap in another year. God save Ireland !
There’s corn in Egypt yet, even if there is no rain. Camel
carriage at Tibooburra has risen to £ll a ton for quick
delivery, and a teamster who recently left Broken Hill
for a bore 12 miles beyond Tibooburra got £l5 a ton for
the carriage of some machinery for the Works Dept.
The arrival of a horse-team in that drought-stricken place
nearly caused a panic.
• • * *
Dear Bulletin. — Whether you publish it
or not, the truth must out. Marks on tree-trunks
grow downwards. Some years ago, I
climbed a large tree in Sydney Botanical
Gardens, and cut thereon a figure of Aus-
tralia, and, in a prophetic moment, put in
the word Commonwealth and some dates.
As years went on, that figure came gradu-
ally downwards until it got to the ground.
Then it started down the Gardens to the
harbor. Many of your readers must have
seen it at the water’s edge. It has now
§one into the - harbor en route for North
ydney, and, when it reaches that wonder-
ful suburb, I expect the denizens will mis-
take it for an advt. and try to jam it up
against a hoarding, along with Large Bills
for Pale People and Boiled Bugs for
Blatherskites, and such like. —Lector.
At Montreal, near Bobundarah, N.S.W.,
a merino ewe recently dropped five lambs. Is this
a record —and are Australian conditions develop-
ing more slowly in the sheep the fecundity which
they seem to have so rapidly produced in the fox ?
An Honest Ancient.
“ My last report went to Parliament to-day ” said
N.S.W. Auditor-General Rennie on Oct. 29 to an
interviewer. At the age of 82, after 56 years
service, so sound in body and mind that he still
reads without spectacles, hears and speaks clearly,
and haunts the tortuous path of an errant State
Treasurer with alert financial criticism, Mr.
Rennie takes a year’s holiday as a preliminary to
retirement. This veteran of the Australian Civil
Service, with his straight, erect figure, his hair
like fine-spun white floss silk, his face still free
from the cadaverous emaciation of old age, looks
at least 15 years younger than he is, will probably
live for very many years yet, and has still the
capacity for useful work. But the new Audit
Act of N.S. W. Parliament makes him, in a sense,
welcome retirement.
Still, it was with a sigh that he spoke.of his
“last report,” Mr. Rennie joined N.S.W. Civil
Service in Sept., ’46, when Australia was not
divided into six parts. Born in 1820 at Islington,
London, of Scottish parents, he came to Australia
as an immigrant at the age of 19. His ship
brought him out in the then record time of three
months. Of the voyagers by that trip he is the
only survivor. By ’56, Mr. Rennie had become
chief clerk in the Audit Dept. In ’B3 he was
Auditor-General.
A man who has lived in Sydney some 62 years,
who joined the N.S.W. service before the days of
Responsible Government, who saw the separation
of Queensland and Victoria, and was an eye-
witness of the closing days of the convict system,
should be a mine of reminiscences, personal and
political. But it is not so. Mr. Rennie has
always kept strictly to his book —his ledger book
—and has looked on the growth of a nation with
a calm statistical eye, knowing little, caring
little, seemingly, of anything outside of the
Treasury returns. The only columns of the
of State that he knew were fluted with
red-ink rulings and adorned with figures. Ask
him of the movement which separated the con-
tinent into various States, and Mr. Rennie gives
full particulars of the adjustment of the accounts
at the time of Separation, and the shrewd prac-
tice by which Queensland contrived to avoid
payment of a just debt to N.S.W.
Any interest outside of figures in Mr. Rennie’s
life was religious. A Presbyterian of the old
rigid school, he took a part in the early struggles
of the Scotch churches in Sydney, and remembers
Dr. Lang, as a quarrelsome and contumelious per-
sonage mainly. One of the founders of St.
Stephen’s, Phillip-street, Mr. Rennie left that
church when a progressive congregation installed
an organ there. This savored to him of the
Scarlet Woman, and, as rigid in his ideas of reli-
gion as in his ideas of financial honesty, he went
to a church where no “kist of whustles” dis-
turbed the sacred gloom of the Lord’s Day.
The last report of Mr. Rennie is very disquiet-
ing to read side by side with the first. In the
year 1883 (Mr. G. R. Dibbs was Treasurer) the
accounts of the State opened with a surplus of
£3,888,753. The revenue for the year was
£6,670,581, the expenditure (from the revenue and
the surplus) £8,048,318; the cash balance at the
end of the year, £2,511,016. The publio debt on
December 31st, 1883, was £21,632,459. In 1902
the public debt is £65,861,658. There is a maze
of deficits, and a grand total revenue of £12,115,171
does not suffice to keep the public accounts square.
The 1883 report is tame and uncritical ; the 1902
report bristles with direct charges against the
financial administration of the Government.
Examples :
The effect of such a limitation ( i.e ., that provided by
the new Audit Act) is that so long as the Treasurer
adheres to the form in which he is told to prepare his
accounts, the Auditor has no option but to certify to its
correctness, notwithstanding how much or how little may
be wrong in the manipulation of the transactions within
the lines and divisions of the form.
Re an item of £150,000 :
The remaining item of £150,000 is equally irregular in
the manner in which it is described and dealt with. Un-
less dealt with according to law the Revenue will escape
the liquidation of a just debt under cover of meeting an
undischarged liability by a loan of £150,000 to replace a
loan of a like amount applied some years ago to avoid a
direct charge for that sum. which it was inconvenient to
pay at the time, and which has not yet been paid out of
and charged to the Revenue Account.
Another brutally frank statement:
“ Neither the public income receivable by the State nor
the real cost of the Public Service of the State within any
named period can be ascertained.”
The payment of the cost of camp equipment,
etc., of day-labor gangs out of loan funds, Mr.
Rennie describes as “extremely absurd and
wrong.” His whole report is, in fact, a censure
on the system of political finance in N.S.W. It
can be imagined that there is joy among the
politicians at his retirement. But N.S.W. will
lose a good servant—a dour man and hard,
perhaps, in some relations, but honest as a
mathematical rule, faithful as, perhaps, only a
Scotchman knows how to be—the ideal auditor.
A sense of national insecurity has come
upon this country through the narrative of Long
Bill Lyne’s torpedo boat and the whales. Lyne
was cruising around Hobson’s Bay on a torpedo
boat when a select family of whales hove in sight
—a large maternal whale and two small offspring.
Whereupon Lyne said “ Damme 1 ” and the gallant
captain echoed the comment, and they trained
their Nordenfeldt gun upon the enemy and the
bombardment began. As far as could be dis-
covered the waste of ammunition was utter and
complete. At the outset the boat chased the
whales, discharging its Nordenfeldt at intervals ;
then the whales chased the boat and the gun
acted on the defensive. Finally the unarmed
force retired from view, leaving the naval system
of Victoria to its bitter reflections. It looks as
though a merciful Providence intended the little
fleet of whales for an object lesson in the foolish-
ness of training a gun upon the enemy you are
wanting to destroy. Better to aim elsewhere and
trust to luck.
A recent number of the Lancet records a
case of complete removal of the stomach for
cancer of that organ, by Dr. Syme, at St. Vincent’s
Hospital, Melbourne. Surgeons have found that
the presence of the stomach is not absolutely
essential for digestion of food or for maintaining
life. The intestines take on the work ordinarily
done by the stomach. In the case in questionthe
patient, a female, a fortnight after the operation,
took her food well, increased in weight and ex-
perienced no feelings of dyspepsia. At the end of
the fourth week she was discharged. This is the
first operation of the kind successfully performed
in Australasia.
MR. EDWARD A. RENNIE, THE RETIRING
N.S. W. AUDITOR-GENERAL.
Photo, by Newman, Sydney.
The Return of Mister James.
The staffs of the S.M. Herald and the Mail gave a
thanksgiving prayer-meeting —that is to say, a smoke-
concert—to Mr. James Fairfax, the other evening, to cele-
brate his safe return from England. There was great
enthusiasm displayed on the occasion. The cheers of the
comps, and reporters cracked the welkin of the tea-house.
Mr. James, in the course of a feeling reply to the toast of
his health, remarked that during his absence he had
acquired considerable knowledge as to the management
of newspapers in various parts of the world, and “ he
believed that the Herald and Mail were perfectly up-to-
date."
There was joy to burn,
They cheered like flames,
For the safe return
Of Mister James.
He said, ‘ ‘ Gentlemen ”
(With his humor ripe)
“ Of the Stick, and Pen,
And the Linotype.
“ Keep up your mirth,
We are not outclassed j
I have seen the Earth
Since I saw you last.
“ I’ve seen the Press
. Of the world,” said he.
“You would hardly guess
How it looked to me.
“ Ere I came back
I used my eyes,
And marked its lack
Of Enterprise.
“ I read the lot,
The whole dull bunch—
The Times —dry rot 1—
And the London Punch.
“And for humor neat,
With wholesomeness—
The Mail can beat
The wide world’s press.
“ And for cautious wit,
With regard to space,
The Herald’s fit
To take foremost place.
“We hold a rod:
All fear we pass—
But the fear of God,
And the Merchant Class.
“ So Gentlemen ”
(With his humor ripe)
“Of the Stick and Pen
And the Linotype.
“ I’m so pleased,” said he
(They listened keen)
“ With what I see,
And what I’ve seen.
“ That for no excuse,
Of Drought or Debt,
Shall I reduce
Your wages—yet.”
There was joy to burn,
They cheered like flames
For the safe return
Of Mister James.
CREEVE ROE.


f 'f IV \( "s
1 1 CJm ■
■
j. \s ~
F
THE N.S.W. RELIGIOUS WAR.


MELBOURNIANA.
f rr i..™ E. W. Wallington has been appointed,
by His Royal Highness the Prinoe of Wales to
the post of groom of the bedchamber.
-% Hj*s
wV cWfe “f
|^° /e
( Ifs^
fo be 'fouvl
if ffa
°\
h, Well)
&liT 'r,£ 'ttWs
V - Oh! b«V
) tffe fiVsl" °"* M"
'Wj&r "We v/irjniti'
Co"ies '»?
k u r WouW'nT it W A SVAn
, if -Hfy cur *cc*>SS l»K«
\didV.r W to 2°
„, 0
»W>»“gSl,M^, t „tt'^ d .u «■* »SJ
’tl w ; “;^>''S^i»»“’ , ”“”
<*' <>»'£«.»
toHAK rats* A<2 «“
Kothln*
‘likely to cross our waB oa i y ,n
an d they Were fired at, *»»
incident of the afternoon.
Bill Li««s utr^
fo % 'f^'«g To
«*|>WmV*.y KW*
_,is & 'l
j^cV»b§
u\> 1° *
boci 'fton
CV il 7S,
W*<
I The Melbourne ho9pit&l__cammittee yestei-'
Li. t received a communication from the
treasurer of the Hawthorn Presbyterian
Church, enclosing a cheque for 11 guineas on
behalf of the congregation, and requesting
annual governorships for the same number
jof perrons, whoso names were submitted.
-mboso**
Si«u ~Wf n.
li-ttie tloKe §*% ~~ v s
‘fdjlen on eV»I
He IK Cup
v/et-c riv*)
*io
Cuj>
Vjojpi'oVfe (looKintf m
on Bjr'on
> "Halves (w<Jner
c^lea
r *
%* *> Us. been b f u r
m -
WeKfl. fo Conf>»J* io "fie £*sf or Mordialtoc Side of Uy
jn r Tlosr'
] ibeKaJ m Ves'-y case)!
Wc n)*r<i will be 170 rje<zA •'to
j?r&ceed |uK"rtier -{f/e, systen; op
Wild
JHt)K+ Itf« Vic de^ icit" iy XT


A. SAUNDERS
FOB HANDSOME AND USEFUL PRESENTS—WATCHES, CLOCKS,
JEWELLEKY, SILVEBPLATE, LEATHEB, AND OPTICAL GOODS.
a m A. SAUNDEtta.
OrlmS r fi ? ILET t BET ' Square Cut Glasses, Chased and
Ornamented Silver. Laige Size, as above pattern, £4 :
size smaller, in Bound Glassware, £2 10s. Post free.
_ .. A. SAUNDERS.
Dadiea First-class Pure Silver PURSE, beautifully Chased mid
Embossed, Sin. x 2in., £2 5s : large size, 4jin. x 2in., i.';; is
In Silk-lined Case.
„ „ A. SAUNDERS.
IT N c ?.- r S9^ Hi ° lleßt duality Two Pure Solid Silver
BRUSH, COMB, and MIRROR, in Silk and Leather
Case, Double Catch, £5 10s. Handsome Present.
j%>.° MOON, S SYDNEY
MBIIiUUIMBIIIIIIIUUIUII..IIIum,.. II ,x3
A. SAUNDERS
CHILD'S SET, A 1 Quality, Pure Silver on White Metal, 255.
Other Similar Styles, 8 Pieces, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
All in Silk-lined Cases.
■ - .
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, Pure Silver, in Silt-lined Case, 30s.
A Handsome First-class Article.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALTS, Pure Silver-mounted,
fancy Cut Class, in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d ;
White Cut Glass, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver CLOTH or HAT BRUSH,
15s, 17s 6(1, 20s.
Jr >
r~>, ® oo
•-•••-N ' ■'& P
i . i- f - 1‘
\ v . : .r , I ri
I
isC^AT,:'
0
f.VV'S
PS?
!,^§p»
urrttr. - V'J~\
. 'Jt'.V .'j
C>i>v>n
/Mi)
'IM ; :" ; . fritP'L
Pld | 4]
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ First-class Pure Solid Silver TOILET SET (18 pieces), in Beautiful
Silk-lined Case, Handsomely Chased and Ornamented, £l5 10s.
Port Free to any part of the Commonwealth.
„ A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s SHAVING SET, Pure Solid Silver.
40s, 60s, £3. £3 10s. A Nice Present.
SIO7.—COMB, Pine Silver-mounted,
Real Tortoiseshell, 20s.
Bimilar, Bs 6d, 7s 6d, 10s, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver
EAU DE COLOGNE,
Full Size, ‘22s 6d ;
large size, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Six Silver-plated on Hard White Metal
SERVIETTE RINGS, in Cise. 17s 6d.
A 1 Quality, by .Tames Dixon, London.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver
THIMBLES,
Gold-mounted, 4s 6d.
Other Styles,
Is 6d, 2s 6d, and Ss 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies'
HAIR BRUSH.
Pure Silver, Chased,
20s, 255, 80s.
Splendid Value.
Cheaper Lines,
10s and 12s 6d.
*
HAT PINB, Any Initial.
Pure Solid Silver, 1* 6d :
Stone Set, 8s 6d, 4s 6d.
Pure Silver-mounted KNIFE RESTS,
in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d ;
Large size, 21s.
CAKE or DESSERT KNIVES and FORKS, Handsomely Carved Ivory
Handles, in Silk and Velvet-lined Case, £4 10s. A Handsome Present.
Six FORKS only, 12s 6d, 15s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s, 355.
. A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies* or Gent.> B Travelling DRESSING CASE, in Morocco or Russian
Leather, Nicely Lined, 80s. Similar Styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, £2, £5.
1M
-J." 1
Gent, s WALLET and POCKET BOOK. All Improvements, Silver-mounted,
as above, 10s 6d ; with extra Shield, 12s 6d. Initials Nicely Chased, Is Extra.
Other Styles, 15s, 20s, 255, 80s. A Nice Present.
3m""
gUkjiii I 1 j : 11
iiiiiiiiiiiisiiiffiiOTjiHSfflffiffiiHrtiiiifflaniiii
T/idics’ Pure Silver OARDCASE, Cha-sed and Embossed,
in Silk-lined Case, 255, with Monogram.
*&jrr «»> w-x&fczrtiTh iwyytZU’A'x#*.-
(S&9#
C.—Two JAM ai d Two BUTTER, Beautifully Chased,
Pure Silver Electro-plated on White Metal, First-class Quality,
15s, 20s, 255, 30s, 355, 40s ; 2 only, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20a
All in silk-lined cases.
mm
rrvi
m
' ft
m .
cm
m
A. SAUNDEBS.
Ladies’ Pure Solid Silver Top White Cut Glass PUFF BOX ES
10s, 15s, 20s, 255. ’
A. SAONDERB.
CHILD’S CUP, Pure Silver-
mounted and Nursery Rhyme,
10s 6d. Post Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies' PURSE and CARDOASE,
Crocodile Leather,
Silver-mounted, 6s 6d;
with Shield Centre, 7s 6d.
Pure Silver-mounted Lizard Skin
PULSE, 7a 6d, 12s 6d, and 15s.
Two Gent.’s Bolid Silver HATH BRUSHES
and COMB,
Silk-lined Case, £B, £8 10s.
A. BATJNDERB.
Ladies’ Latest PURSE and WALLET,
with Strap, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
&£fv-
nil®
ffIUOJXE
Child’s SPOON, Solid Silver, °t£ Very Latest and Newest Design*.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted
PIN CUSHION,
7s 6d.
Pure Silver-mounted
Ladies’ COMPANION. 18s (id
smaller, 15s (id.
A, SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER AND SILVERSMITH
809, 811, 813, 815. 817 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY
NEARLY OPPOSITE REDFERN RAILWAY STATION.


THE
OF AUSTRALASIA.
(incorporated by royal charter, 1835.)
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESISVE FUND "
(Of which £500,000 is invested in 2J per cent. Consols at 90, the remainder beinir used
in the business.)
RESERVE LIABILITY" OF PROPRIETORS UNDER THE CHARTER
..£1,600,000
1,035,000
1,600,000
£4,235,000
HALF-YEARLY REPORT oi the DIRECTORS of THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, with the Accounts
for the Half-year to 14th April, 1902, presented to the Proprietors at the Half-vearlv General
Meeting held on Thursday, 2nd October, 1902. 9 y uenerai
EEPOET.
THE Directors submit to the proprietors the Balance-sheet as at 14th April last, with the Profit Arm,,,,! tu
half-year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills current, for British and Colonial fates Tnd flvil
and for all bad and doubtful debts, the net profit for the half-year amounted to £144,467 17s. 7d. b • a taxes >
Since the date of the last report, the Bank has opened new branches at Lismore and Wee Waa in New
Wales, and at Stanley, in Tasmania. ’ ** olun
The Dividend declared is at the rate of 11 per cent, per annum, or £2 4s. per share for the half-vear and will he
payable, free of income-tax, in London and in the colonies, on the 3rd October next. • * 1 08
4 Threadneedle-strcet, London, 22nd September, 1002.
W. A. M‘ARTHUR, Chairman.
From OCTOBER 14, 1901,
{ PROFIT ACCOUNT }
to APRIL 14, 1902.
Undivided Profit, October 14, 1901
Less: Dividend, March, 1902..
.. £94,237 5 3
.. 80,000 0 0
Profit for the half-year to April 14, 1902, after deducting rebate on bills current at
balance date (£8231 13s. 3d.) and making provision for all bad and doubtful debts £278 893 3 6
Less : ’ ° °
I. Charges of Management-
Colonial— ; '
Salaries and allowances to the colonial staff, including the superin-
tendent’s department and 154 branches and agencies .. .. £B2 968 19 8
General expenses, including rent, repairs, stationery, travelling, &c. 21,877 810
London — ’
Salaries 8,335 9 1
General expenses 2,935 18 10
11. Rates and taxes—
Colonial ..
London
Total amount of unappropriated profit ...
From which deduct—
For transfer to Reserve Fund
For reduction in cost of bank premises
£116,117 16 5
£9,398 5 1
. 8,909 4 5
£18,307 9 6
£134,425 5 11
£144,467 17 7
£158,705 2 10
£40,000 0 0
16,000 0 0
£56,000 0 0
Leaving available for dividend
..£102,705 2 10
Dr.
BALANCE-SHEET,
APRIL 14, 1902
C V.
IjIABILiITJUSS.
Circulation £499,024 0 0
Deposits 14,597,068 6 6
Bills payable, and other liabilities .. 2,361,478 18 4
£17,457,571 4 10
Capital £1,600,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,035,000 0 0
(Of which £500,000 is
invested in 2} per
cent-Consols, at 90,
the remainder being
used in the business.)
Profit account: Un-
divided balance .. 102,705 210
2,737,705 2 10
£20,195,276 7 8
ASSETS.
Specie, bullion, and cash balances
Loans at call and at short notice
British Government securities
India & Colonial Government securities
£3,192,772 5 11
1,523,000 0 0
1,021,339 18 5
321,149 17 3
£6,058,262 1 7
Bills receivable, advances on securities,
and other assets .. 13,767,261 13 3
Bank premises in Australia, New
Zealand, and London 369,752 12 10
£20,195,276 7 8
F. H. BLOGG, Accountant.
R. W. JEANS, Manager.
We have examined the cash and securities in London and the London books, and have verified the transfers from
the several branches in the colonies, and we beg 1 to report that in our opinion the foregoing- is a full and fair balance-
sheet of the bank, and that it exhibits a true and correct view of the state of the bank’s affairs as shown-by- the'books.
London , 17 th September, 1902. WELTON, JONES and CO m Auditors.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N. S. Wales: Sayers,
Allport and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
Missing Friends,
WILLIAM VALENTINE SINCLAIR,
LATE OF SPRING,SURE, QUEENSLAND ;
BOUNDARY RIDER, DECEASED.
THE NEXT-OF-KIN are requested to communicate
at once with
SWANWICK & KAVANAGH,
Solicitors,
ROCKHAMPTON, Q.
JJDWARD EGAN, son of James and Sarah
Egan (nee MeVay), once settled in Volet
Town, and KynetOn, Vic., please cojnimunicate
with J. T. FIDLER GOORAM, Gong, Victoria.
Money awaiting you.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
I
™ NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
LIMITED.
THE NINETEENTH REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS.
1. The Balance-sheet of the Bank as on 30th September last, and the Profit and Loss Accoiiiii
for the Half-year which then terminated, are now submitted to the shareholders.
2. The net profit, after deducting expenses of management and the other items specified in the
Profit and Loss Account,
Amounted to
Balance from previous half-year
Deduct note and income taxes in Australia and Great Britain.
Leaving available £49,111 13
whioh it is proposed to apropriate as follows :
Transfer to Reserve Fund Account (making £70,000) - £5,000
Dividepd at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum on Preference Shares 7,044 10
Dividend at the rate of per cent, per annum on Ordinary Shares .. 20.867 14
Carry forward 15,599
3. The Ordinary General Meeting will be held at the Equitable-buildings, 320 Collins-street,
Melbourne, on Wednesday, sth November, at noon.
By order of the Board of Directors,
JOHN G. ADDISON, Chief Manager.
The National Bank of Australasia Limited, Head Office—Melbourne, 23rd October, 1902.
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Dr. F°r the Half-year Ending 30th September, 1902 Q.
(Including London Office to 30th August, 1902, and Western Australian Branches to 15th September, 190 S).
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Proprietors’ Capital
—30,578 preference
shares paid in
money to £lO per
share, £305,780;
238,488 ordinary
shares paid up to
£5 per share,
£1,192,440 .. .. £1,498,220 0 0
reserve fund ac-
count 1 .. .. 65,000 0 0
~ profit and loss ac-
count .. .. 49,111 13 4
£1,612,331 13 4
~ notes in circulation £295,327 2 6
~ bills in circulation 413,970 Sll
„ Government De-
posits—Not bear-
in g interest,
£39,42255. 6d; bear-
ing interest,
£340,341 19S. 6d... 379,764 5 0
„ Other Deposits—
Not bearing inter-
est, £2,398,718
7s. 6d. ; bearing in-
terest, £3,288,226
Bs. 6d 5,686,944 16 11
„ interestaccruedand
rebate on current
bills 54,433 19 5
~ balances due to
other banks .. 51,724 3 3
6,882,164 15 0
£8,494,496 8 4
To contingent liability, as per contra .. £349,382 15 4
ASSETS.
coin, bullion and
cash at bankers
Government, muni-
cipal, and other
public stocks, de-
bentures, and funds
bills and remit-
tances in transitu
notes and bills of
other banks
balances due from
other banks
duty stamps
£1,001,242 5 3
537,414 19 1
421,973 19 X
24,797 6 3
45,770 13 9
3,027 3 3
real estate, consisting’ of bank pre-
mises, at cost to the bank
other real estate, at valuation
bills discounted and other advances,
exclusive of provision for bad and
doubtful debts .. .... ... „
£2,634,226 6 8
451,492 18 11
364,403 6 5
6,044,373 16 4
£8,494,496 8 4
liability of the old bank, in the form
of a guarantee of certain shire and
municipal debentures (Victoria) sold
in London, and which are beingduly
provided for by sinking funds, in
terms of the act authorising their
issue, £107,600; and liabilities of
customers and others on letters of
credit and drafts, £241,782 15s. 4d,
as per contra
£349,382 15 4
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To expenses at head office, 112 branches
and 17 agencies £57,246 10 10
~ note and income taxes 3,737 16 9
Balance .. .. .. .. 49,111 13 4
£110,096 0 11
By balance brought forward .. .. £14,073 10 0
~ gross profits, including- recoveries, less
rebate on bills current, interest paid
and accrued on deposits, repairs to
premises, and rent 96,022 10 5
£110,096 0 11
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To balance
.. £65,000 0 0
£65,000 0 0
By balance last half-year £60,000 0 0
~ transfer from profit and loss .. .. 5,000 0 0
£65,000 0 0
JOHN G. ADDISON, Chief Manager.
NOTE ,
customary A uditors’ Report and the Directors’ statements, to comply
with the Companies’ Act, 1800, appear on the official report
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
W.B. : The difference between the Englishman
to-day and the American is that the latter gets up when
he wakes. Australians take notice J.P.T. : No, we
don’t print letters like that. It was pretty mean of your
friend to send them. In fact, he must be the very coldest-
blooded sort of a ruffian S.II. : No, thanks; The
Bulletin doesn’t share serials (above all, political serials)
with other papers ; it prefers to go a lone hand
J.J.L. : Don’t know what to recommend for a young lady
with moist hands. Perhaps if she were caned on the
palms twice a day it might harden them J. Reilly :
It isn’t well to inquire too closely as to how any institu-
tion in this debt-laden country would look if its mortgages
were sold up now. The one you mention would come out
better than many ; beyond that the less said the better...
W.H. : If the owner possesses only that bit of land (worth
less than £500), The Bulletin proposes that he and the
tenant should both go free of land-tax (a man with only
£5OO worth of land isn’t very bloated), and that the loss
should be made good by charging a vastly increased land-
tax on such concerns as the Cooper estate, covering most
of Woollahra, the A.A. Co.’s estate which spreads over
several counties, the Bibbenluke property which the
coach takes half a day to drive through, and such like.
Surely that is plain enough... M. B. Levin : (1) All the
European States except Spain joined in an agreement in
1856 not to employ privateers. Spain and other countries
(including the U.S.) which stood out, are not bound by
the agreement. (2) In time of war the enemy’s merchant
ships are captured whenever possible. (3) Certainly, if
the mate can prove he had a half-share in the ticket he
can recover half the prize. (4) Can’t say if an Irishman
is “a Britisher in the true sense of the word.” What is
the true sense? If it means a native of Great Britain, he
isn’t. If it is a matter of descent, the Welshman is
British ; the Englishman and Lowland Scot are more or
less German ; the Celtic Irishman and Highland Scot are
vaguely supposed to represent a Spanishor Belgic invasion.
....Player; Thanks for your information, but not for your
advice. We’ll run our own show in our own way..'
F.M. ; Have made several attempts to read “ Love and I,”
which is even more illegible than usual. Still, your record
effort was a recent piece of verse, about half of which was
given up as a bad job, and the lines filled in by the aid of
such intelligence as Providence has given to the staff.
Kiwi : The only foundation for that notion is that the
Barbadoes blacks use some words which appear to be of
Celtic origin. “ Erse,” in any case, is Gaelic, not Irish.
Tremouille : Right ; but this is a world that has oniy
two emotions in the main, hunger and love ; and a
story has pretty frequently to be about No. 2, for
there is no great chance of artistic display in No. 1
Yup : What !—Carnegie to help you to found a demo-
cratic duly in Australia ? You are anxious to get out of
the frying-pan into the fire....T. J. : Yes, many people
have written us about that absolutely inadvertent
obscenity : you have the proud distinction of being (so
far) the only man who has wired about it... .Edgar B. :
Dying bushranger ” who sentimentalises to his “ pard ’’
is clean out of our line....J.F. : The Bulletin reluc-
tantly announces that it is not able to take any great
interest in hospital rows unless they have led either (1)
to homicide, or (2) to something quite fresh and pictur-
esque in the way of recrimination. Small rows are too
numerous to mention... .W.J.H. : Not much in the
verse except its somewhat graceful progress from inno-
cence to veiled indecency F.B.M. : Out of our line
T.T. : You should try and compose your pars as a skilful
barman composes his cocktails; make ’em agreeably
bitter-sweet, and always with a brandied eke ry at the
bottom R.H.W. : Cheap melodrama Y.H.G. :
Your Gertie rhapsody doesn’t move us a bit. Alas, that
a man can’t put on paper the glow of his thoughts about
his best girl!.... Lachlan: “Didactic” poetry is full of
pitfalls; it must offer not only good verse but good
advice ; and the good advice generally makes it very
dull 11. G. : A curse of the Australian woman is
the medicine-habit. Many a girl starts on a downward
course with “one before each meal,” or “a table-
spoonful in water three times a day,” and, with a
line of gaudy bottles, blazes her track to the cemetery....
Ormond: The man you name didn’t write those verses.
. ...J.VV.: Nothing much in that:.. .P.F.M. : Style too
heavy.... The Hermit: “Gift” for print... .Genung :
You miss the melody which the case calls for.. . .Steve
the B. : “We are welcome to it.!’ But, alas ! it’s not
welcome to us... .Con. L. : The ’roo-tail-striking ques-
tion has been hammered out thin in The Bulletin, and
you broach it as a perfectly novel idea.... Zed. : Too much
like other small-town doings to call for comment....
Bob R. : Always quote date of issue containing item re-
ferred to j.I.C. : Couldn’t do anything with it
Max W. : Well enough done in its way, but out of Bulle-
tin’s line Iris L. : Crudely conventional,.. .Harry H. :
Has no grip in it... .Will J. :In “ Old Tom ” you’ve cer-
tainly achieved simplicity, but the interest is not
strong enough. The verses may have a show
Spinifex : A very large order. Would rather be excused.
.... J.W.C.: Hope to look you up... .Verax: Rather too
general a charge to print on an unknown correspondent’s
say-so 8.J.8. : Metre all out Stormbird : Ragged-
-13 question shelved E.F.L. : “ Smooger ” too difficult
to deal with. Verse has some merit, but is too crude for
Bulletin Bundaburrah : Tried to fix it up, but couldn’t
make it g 0.... Wild Turkey : Too far-fetched and labored.
....The Shadow: Some pathos, but not enough in it
otherwise V.A.: Your Irish dialect is spoilt by Scotti-
cisms and Cockneyisms... .Dusty : Haven’t got your
name and address... .Wanderer : Verses faithful to fact,
but mediocre in execution Gerald B. : No variety in
your “ roses.”... .M.A.O’D, : Too hackneyed a theme
J.O’M. : “Love’s silken coil,” “dull days slowly pass,”
“ day dreams fade ” —all the old, old properties, the potted
rotted phrases with their musty smell! . Rayeff:
Rather out of our line Keroro : Stump-burning sub-
ject done with.... Jobber : Nothing in them.... Vincent
G. : Your letter clearly shows that you could do nothing
which would be serviceable to us... .A.P.C. : “Two
Points ” hasn’t enough meat on the bone.... .The Pirate :
Avaunt, accursed non-producer! H.M: “Narrow
Shave ” might be made a good story ; as it is, it is only a
crude story of a scrap with a nigger now supposed to be
deceased 11.L.P. : “ All Along ” tottered on the edge
of acceptance for some time, but didn’t get there....
A.B. Moorook : You make a good deal out of the scanty
fact that a man with a black eye sent a telegram ; still it
is best to get a larger fact.... Shiraz : “ Excellent Oopy ”
would be to the great mass of readers only a blank. A
few would see the meaning dimly through a mist of
words M.F. : “Botanical Gardens” is a vague
musing rather than a tale, and the demand for musings
is limited... .N.R.M. : Some rather dull; some rather
old.... Elmore : Try to condehse more. A snake anec-
dote shouldn’t run to half a column... .Nardo : Mining
items used. Avoid trying, to get effect by exaggeration.
....The Tyke: Bulletin isn’t an agricultural paper.
And the great bulk of your paragraphs are dull,
commonplace daily-paper news-items. You write too
much The Dreamer : Please don’t be so hackneyed in
your dreams.. . .T.J.D. : Pictures wouldn’t reproduce ;
screed some merit, but rather too mechanical....R.D.L.:
Nothing in the par. to say that the horse was going to
start the next year... .iI.E. : “Penalty” strong idea,
but no probability in the scheme of working out
J.T.M. f Better let it rest so far as this paper is concerned,
and keep fads before the Minister for Justice G.E.B. :
A good deal of humor and observation, but length makes
it quite unsuitable for B Gerald B. : Story hopeless ;
some pars, may possibly do The Nut: Rather smart
but too much spun-out Rol. : Nothing in any of ’em’
Andy 0. : Too prosy and preachy Dian : Verse on
such a subject should ring; yours only tinkles....
F.G.O. : Brain in it, but style hopeless..! .Jason : One
fleece may d0....A.: Some skill, but subject doesn’t
suit.. .-.Will G. : No, thanks ; too sordid... .Pat: Prettily
phrased, but same thought often used before Bunnie :
Considering; shows much promise Unsuitable:
Premier, Matchbox, Louis, Alone, Imax, E.S C.B. :
Yes, we pay for accepted contributions ; yours unsuitable.
Jimmy S. : Same idea dealt with so often before....
Bronzewing : Send in items with dates, and remittance
will be sent; subject “ Grimalkin ” anticipated by article
in type.... A.0.M.: We’ve no demand for Cup poetry—
least of all for the poem that tips a scratched horse....
D.H.R. : You don’t manage to make a story of it... .The
Broker: As a rule it is no good re-submitting a MS.,
unless especially asked to do so H.W. (Eng.):
“Queen” rather trite Wells: Lack directness and
depth The Blue.v : Your appreciation of the jackass
has more sincerity than skill.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Dombraine : Don’t see the point V.B. : Still far short
of mark A.M.D.: That sort of drawing would never
do. You must study hard W. Craig : Much obliged,
but photos, unavailable O.P. (A.) : You have missed it
this time, with all three... .Nemo : Sorry can’t use
sketches ; the MS. also unavailable.. .E.W.O. : Nice clean
photo, but rather out of Bullktin way Talentyre:
Photo, too obviously a fake. . .G.F.L. : Don’t seal down
drawings, please; last consignment cost us 3s. in extra
postage Macb.: Camel idea will do ; other returned..
..Buckenboura: We don’t quite take “Thompson’s”
view of Prime Minister Barton. Unavailable : W., H.,
Hal. E., A.R.W. (W.W. Vote), Peck, E.M.S., W.A.K.
Austral, B.K.W. (Eng:.), .Esam, Gridiron, H.J.,
A. Mackay.


SPECTACLES
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION. ™
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
struotions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT.
By its use you can Test your own sight and de-
termine for yourself the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write for it to-
ll* A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
371 George-st., Sydney, next A.J.S. Bank.’
HOW TO KEEP COOL.
We strongly recommend all who suffer
from the heat to add a few drops of Condy’s
Fluid to the Daily Bath or Foot Bath.
A Condy’s Fluid Bath imparts a most
delightful sensation of coolness, freshness
and purity, it invigorates the body and
braces the nerves. The strengthening and
cooling effects are Simply Magical. Tired
or Tender feet are instantly relieved. Book
on bottle contains full directions.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists
throughout the British Empire. Beware
of substitutes. Insist on having “ Condy’s
Fluid.” Condy & Mitchell, of London,
England, are the only Makers and their
name and address is at foot of label.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO., 88 King-st.,
SYDNEY.
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
289 Collins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
“Don’t shout”
" 1 hear you. 1 can hear now
as well as anybody.
“'How?’ Oh. some- _
thing new— The Wilson.^ 1
Common-sense Ear-
Drum. I’ve a pair in my
ears now. you can't see them i
they’re invisible. I wouldn't
know I had them in myself,
only that I hear all right.”
The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
parts of the
natural ear. Has no
Vrire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable. Totally
different from any other de.
vice. Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
[.». CWAUtItS. 329-231 C«l|ii>& »»., Meltt.
POLITICAL
POINTS
R. F. Toutcher, member for Ararat, moves
Vie. Leg. Assembly for the abolition of the
office of State Governor. It will be interesting to
watch the “ reform ” party deal with that neces-
sary economy'
The Federal Government wants to get
representatives to go to the Indian nigger-crawl
for nothing, to be paid by the honor and glory, so
to speak. Possibly the M'Eacharn and a few of
that class would take on the billet at the terms.
W. A. Watt, a renegade Victorian demo-
crat now under the banner of the bogus Tory
reform party, rose in the Assembly recently to
urge the Premier to invite the Tory Chamberlain
to visit Australia. Surely Victoria ought to finish
paying the bill for the entertainment of York
before it invites anybody else.
Bent’s abolition of free carriage of the
defence forces utterly flabbergasted Bigjohn
Forrest. “I never heard of such a thing,” said
the massive Groper. “ A Government breaking
its own laws ! It sounds impossible. If they
wanted to alter the existing Act, why didn’t they
repeal it ? Gracious ! It’s unbelievable.”
A notable absentee from the recent Mel-
bourne Freetrade shivoo was Premier Irvine.
V as the gentleman with the backbone afraid of
offending King Syme ? A couple of years back,
when Attorney-General in the M 'Lean Ministry,
Irvine attended a Freetrade dinner, and next day
the Age drew M ‘Lean’s attention to the fact, and
expressed a hope that he would in future put
Irvine to bed by 9 o’clock.
Melb. Argus, which is terribly in earnest
in its clamor for economical government, is also
terribly bitter towards the Postmaster-General for
robbing the somewhat fashionable Melb. Chess
Club of practically the free use of the telegraphic
service for matches. To further cut the wages of
a few hundred ill-paid civil servants tickles the
Argus, but to make the chess dead-heads pay for
service rendered enrages it
Westralia has sent a pretty solid squadron
of Freetraders to the Federal Parliament. Yet
W.A. State Parliament is so powerfully Pro-
tectionist that a proposal to abolish the duties
levied on potatoes, ham, bacon, butter, eggs,
cheese and flour im-
ported from other States
—some of the special
duties which W.A. is al-
lowed to retain against its
neighbors for five years—
was defeated by 25 to 11,
HE DIDN'T RISK IT.
SCOTTY (anxiously): “Eh, mon, suppose it should
be a good yun!” (Returns the egg to his
pocket.)
The cohentingenter who went a-farm-
burning and a-raiding awhile back has, at any
rate, imbibed a few impressions. One of him, a
Major George Patterson, who has just returned
from S’Africa, makes the brilliant suggestion in
Melb. Argus that the Icicle Government should
form concentration camps at, say, Macedon or
Frankston for the families of the drought-ruined
Mallee farmers. Mr. Patterson doesn’t say where
the money is to come from to run the camps :
presumably it will be borrowed for a permanent
and reproductive work.
Some of the true reasons for the shocking
state of the Queensland finances: The Brisbane
xtiver reaches are lined with recently-purchased
unsuitable dredges, which cost over half-a-million •
a new centra! radway station has just been com-
pleted at a cost of close on <£loo,ooo (although the
railways show an annual deficit of half-a-million);
and a Bands-office is now in course of erection
which will cost about £600,000 !
Sydney Freetrade press is constantly
' ” a in <g-°n -Federal Ministers to come to Svdney
and try to speak to a public meeting and be
howled down. It carefully presumes that they
wul be howled down ; and as one per cent, of the
audience can, by wild-beast tactics, turn an
assembly to a pandemonium, is it any wonder
that the inferential suggestion is acted upon when
Mr. Barton does face a Sydney audience ?
Premier Barton presses Joe Chamberlain
to honor us with a visit. Joseph is too wily a
fish to be caught in the backwash of Australian
sentiment; consequently he will have much plea-
sure in staying away. A visit would give Aus-
tralian Jingoes the chance of showing Joe how
much they love him, but it would give the crowd
a chance of showing how much they don’t, and
vaiamberlain doesn’t take chances of that sort.
N.S. W. Premier See “ seriously proposes "
to let the Assembly “have an opportunity of
discussing Parliamentary Reform” before' the
close of the session. Apparently no Reform Bill
will be introduced, but there will be an aimless,
rambling discussion on a motion of adjournment
or something. And Parliamentary Reform was
m the. fore-front” of See’s programme. See has
a lot more front than his programme ever had.
Apropos the proposal of Mayor Shoppee,
ot Ballarat, to “erect a memorial to the reform
movement, a Melbourne paper has found out that
there were 1600 people at Mr. Shoppee’s meeting
on the matter, and the subscriptions then and
there contributed towards the “memorial”
totalled £2 11s. 3d. On the strength of 615 miser-
able coppers Mr. Shoppee says “the residents of
iiTv s * ;oria have decided to erect a memorial.”
Whoop!
“ P.K.” writes re the Q. colored-labor
question:—
thlrniwcYf di ®. t . ric I fc , on, y those farmers who availed
themselves of white labor and the consequent rebate or
P f 0 ”“ Sl .T 1 A, ha . ve clelred expenses, whereas the majority,
“ 2r> the farmer-employers of Kanaka labor will have
al L a IoBS - For one reason, the crops were small
? an f h . as t° be hlred under a six months’
agreement at the least, and there was really but three
WOI - k !u r h \.™ this y ear - When the work is
?S d ,' ®° 18 the white man, but as most Kanakas in
? blB district were hired this year for nine months, they
f f. he paid and fed for doing practically nothing
for the rest of their term. I don’t fancy Philp and co.
11 get a large following for the secession movement
h!nri aS w a ?u B \ B<,^^. er ot cane comes in extremely
handy Without Federation that would have been im-
possible, and no amount of cheap colored labor could
make good the loss.
Looking at the vast mass of notices of
motion left on the business-paper at the end of
every Rarliamentary session, the idea arises —why
not have a cleaning-up day, or two of them, just
before Parliament closes? On
cleaning-up day, every member
who was not too ill to attend, or
who had not leave of absence,
should be compelled to be in his
place. Every member with a
notice on the paper should be
allowed to state his case in a
15min. speech. There
should be one reply of
similar length allowed
(opponents of the pro-
posal to select the
member who was to
reply, and send in his
name to the Speaker
in advance), and then
a vote should be
taken. The matter
would at least be dealt
with by a full House,
and nobody who can’t
convince his audience
in 15min., is likely to
convince it at all.
Westralian Arbitra-
tion Court, designed a
compulsory Board of
Conciliation, is presided
over by a Supreme Court
Judge, sitting with a re-
presentative each from employers and em-
ployed. Each side was to state its case, and
judgment was to be according to justice and good
conscience, apart from legal quibbles. This being
so, lawyers were kept out of the Court altogether.
But Gent. One has got there in a measure. In a
recent case one party was represented by a Vic-
torian lawyer living in Westralia (Victorian
lawyers are not admitted on their Victorian quali-
fication to the Westralian Bar). The other side
protested, and pointed out; that the spirit of
the Act might be evaded by importing Symon
from S.A., Purves from Melbourne, or Salo-
mons from Sydney to conduct cases, but the
Court decided that the t’other side Gentle-
man One was not a Gentleman One within the
meaning of W.A. laws.
Tasmania’s Upper House has thrown out
the Income Tax, Bill by a majority of one. Tas-
mania pays less direct taxation per head than
N.S.W., South Australia, Westralia, or Maori-
land, and less than half the direct taxation per in-
habitant paid in the United Kingdom. It is finan-
cially on the rocks, simply because it doesn’t raise
enough taxes to cover necessary outgoings, and
the verdict of its brutally unpatriotic M’s.L.C. is
that it may struggle through anyhow it can, but
that they, the Fat Men of the land, won’t pay
another copper. In Tasmania, as in Victoria, a
strong Ministry would break the wretched Council
by giving it the alternative of facing a general
stoppage of payment, but the strong man hasn’t
arrived yet. _ The best thing the Lewis Govern-
ment can think of is to coerce the Council (which
rejected its Bill) by dissolving the Assembly
(which passed the Bill). That is a fool’s game.
Adelaide is
apparently will-
ing to give away
90,000,000 acres
of X. Territory
land with a vague
idea that a trans-
continental line
will, in some
mysterious way,
pour money into
her pocket.
Well, Oodnad-
atta is the head
of the line now,
and it serves
thousands of
miles of just the
same sort of
country that any
other station still
further on would
serve ; and the
total quantity of
goods forwarded
from Oodnadatta
lastyear(to.Tune
30, 1902) was 89
tons not quite
7i tons a month !
And, in the natural order of things, the further the
line goes north—the further the stuff lias to be
carried—the less the likelihood of traffic.
Freetrade press announces triumphantly
that some of the Federal Ministers “are strongly
opposed ” to the harsh methods of Mr. Kingston,
and that the Cabinet has had a consultation, with
the result that “ more discretion is to be used for
the future.” As a matter of fact, the effect of the
Cabinet debate was that Mr. Kingston was left
absolutely untrammelled, with an expression of
perfect confidence, and swindling importers will
still have to face the Bench instead of the back-
stairs.
The Q. Railway Acts Amendment Act,
which has been passing from Assembly to Council
for some weeks, has at last become law. Its
principal features are (1) appointment of a
Commissioner for seven years ; (2) a clause re-
quiring the Minister’s approval to all contracts
(avowedly intended to give him control of the
advertising). The Council twice refused to agree
to a clause restricting the amount of compensation
claimable from the Commissioner for accident, or
death through accident, to £2OOO.
The Maoriland local option poll will be
taken on general-election day. The Cold Tea
party is confident of carrying prohibition in at
least half-a-dozen towns. The law requires that
half the number of electors on the roll must vote
to make the option poll valid, so the teetotal
crowd has decided not to let any candidate have a
walk over. People vote on the Cold Tea question
if they are at the poll in any case, but they don't
go there on purpose to vote on the Cold Tea
question— at least, not to any great extent.
A very prominent Melbourne business
man, David Elder, puts up a really brilliant
record as the discoverer of a way to remedy the
Vic. railway deficit. He proposes, in a letter to
the Age, that the Vic. railways should be leased
to a shindykit of capitalists, who will undertake
to pay the Government 3 per cent, annually on
their cost. As Government has made the lines
pay more than 3 per cent, for the last three years,
and as the offer, if accepted, would make the
deficit worse than it is now, Victoria will probably
be less grateful than Mr. David Elder expects.
Ex-Premier Peacock is severely in the
background in the present Vic. Parliament. On
nearly every occasion, so far, he has voted with
the Government’s unshakable majority of
political sheep. “Alec.” isn’t seen in the Assembly
for many minutes at a stretch, and when the
division-bells do bring him along, he merely trips
in along with “Jimmy” Gillespie and the other
woefully small giants of the Kyabram agitation.
The leading of the Opposition, so far as there is
any, is practically done by Labor-member Pren-
dergast and the newly-discovered Andrews, of
Geelong.
Boss Bent’s determination that luggage-
porters on Vic. railways shall in future rely
on the casual tip of the rich person for sub-
sistence, upsets one of the most rigid regulations
of a service which has always hitherto been clean
by comparison with others. Not only was the
tipped porter liable to dismissal, but the person
offering him money put himself in danger of a £5
fine. One of the worst features of the Irvine-Bent
determination to crush the public servant is the
probability that a service that has, up to now, been
free from petty jobbery will not keep so religiously
out of the way of temptation and palm-grease.
The £2OO-a-year clerk, who has a big say in the
decisions of a Minister, and no hope of preferment
in the service, always has excellent opportunities
in this way for crossing the “bread-and-butter”
margin.
“Hansard ” writes concerning some politi-
cal personages:—
Federal Ministers Kingston, O’Connor, Deakin and Tur-
ner lead easily—although these, even in some directions,
are a disappointment. Perhaps O'Connor is the best of
these four ; Kingston has shown ability and fight; whilst
Deakin and Turner have held their own. Deakin is a
splendid fellow, but too nice to everybody. Turner is
the best Treasurer the Commonwealth could produce; he
is an ideal bookkeeper, and now is the bookkeeping
period. The only N.S.W. men who have got out of the
ruck are Thomson, Watson and Bruce Smith—and of the
last the House has had too little through his continued
absence, to have received a lasting impression. Thomson
has impressed his fellow members as a careful, common-
sense man who may develop into a successor to Turner.
G. H. Reid’s strength has been frittered away in funni-
osities, and he is now weaker than when he started.
Among the Victorians, Higgins has shown strength, but
lack of ability to compromise. He could only live in a
Ministry of Higginses. Isaacs has visibly weakened, and
is regarded as a back-number on all .except legal points.
M'Lean (Vic.) is a centre of disaffection, and from him and
his group danger to the Ministry can first be expected.
Among the younger men M‘Cay and Crouch have made
distinct progress. Higgs is the fighting force of the
Labor party, and most of its successes can be scored to
his card.
THE STRAIGHT-OUT HALF-YEARLY BANK MEETING
(NEVER HELD YET).
CHAIMAN (reads): “Never was the country in such a hole, or the affairs
of this institution in such a hopeless mess,” &c.
Melb. Akg its is fighting hard to rescue Vic.
Council from the reform movement. It has to
barrack for the Kyabrain reforms in other directions,
but kicks at the idea of throwing open the Council
to the democratic vote. What it hopes to secure
out of the racket is a Council with equal power to
the Assembly in handling money-bills. It ven-
tures the argument that the (present) Council
vpters have declared 'Strongly for this. The Alli-
gator always declares strongly for Pig.
The Queensland Tory party, which always
speaks of private railways as the certain salvation
of the State, is having the usual trouble with the
private line it already has on hand. The Callide
Syndicate got its concession in 1900. It undertook
to build 40 miles of line inside three years. The
three years have nearly expired and as not one sod
has yet been turned it wants an extension, and a
grant of land, and a few ocher things. The co.
apparently has no intention of building anything,
but it wants more time so that it may’ sell out its.
concession to another co. which will also want
more time—time to collect its thoughts, and to.
raise money, and to do other things.
Vic. Leg. Council agreed to the re-enact-
ment of the Factories Act with Wages Board
clauses intact, by one vote only. That one vote
seems to have averted the liveliest disturbance in.
Vic. politics since the fighting days olLGraham
Berry. The Labor party at large was keehly alive
to the situation, and the fierce earnestness of the
crowds, more than the militant speeches, implied
real mischief. The Factories Act will have to be
fought out all over again within a year or so, and
the fight, will be a bitter one, for the Age seems to.
side with “the business people” against the
Wages Boards, and “ reconsiders” the latter, “ in
the light of experience.” With David Svme-
second thoughts are always the worst.
The Westralian Assembly has decided to.
include clerks under the Factories and Shops
Bill, and to make an office a factory within the-
meaning of the Act. If the Bill passes, therefore,.
Westraha will be, in one respect at least, in the
van of progress. During the debate, Moran,
M.L.A., reproached the Labor party that its.
paternal eye never rested on the man with a straw
hat and a ribbon round it, but only on the maib
with the black hat and the grease-spots. And the
Labor party didn’t answer, as it might, that the
language of the straw-hat man, when he found
the grease-spot man looking at him in a friendly
way, was so offensive that amicable relations had;
long been difficult—almost impossible, in fact
Though attempts were made on both sides,
to draw the Vic. Government on the subject of a
permanent Factories Act, that frigid combination
was scrupulously careful not to give the vaguest
hint of its intentions. Apparently, Irvine and
co. will keep the Act up their sleeves in case of
emergency. Should the chance offer of getting
rid of legislation that is, naturally, gall and worm-
wood to the Robert Reid and MVKenzie element,
without endangering their existence as a Govern-
ment, nobody will be more eager to seize upon it
than Irvine and co. Anyhow, the Factories Act
is a handy doll to play with, and a Government:,
that knows its way about should be sure of a.
prolonged existence by keeping it constantly in,
view, but never doing anything definite about it.
Minister Bent’s latest “ economy ” : “At
yesterday’s meeting of the State Cabinet,” says
the Argus, “it was decided to fill the vacancy
caused by the promotion of Mr. J. H. Reid, the-
chief accountant of the Railway Dept, by the-
appointment of Mr. Kent. Mr. Kent 'is at
present railway traffic auditor at a salary of £Boo'
a year, and in future he will be required, in addi-
tion, to carry out the duties until recently per-
formed by Mr. Reid without additional salary.
In other words, the two branches are to be.
amalgamated, and in that way the salary hitherto,
drawn by Mr. Reid will be saved. The salary
attached to the position of chief accountant was.
£750 a year.” A lot of money can be saved by
simply ordering one man to do two men’s work
without extra pay.
G. Dry- dog Reid, to the Argus, on the art
of public speaking :
A speaker must first gauge the feeling of his audience
I have repeatedly planned an address on definite lines "«
then some subtle intuition tells me almost at the outset
that the plan is faulty, and I have discarded the whole
thing on the instant, and trusted largely to the inspira-
tion of the moment, or an adaptation of my ideas to what
I have conceived to be the tone of the meeting to carrv
me through. & *
Y u®\ as ’ for instance > the Yes-No speech with
which he drove his assassin dagger into the
Federal Bill at the first referendum ! But Mr.
Reid shouldn’t pride himself on a capacity for
somersaulting actually on the platform, when
other men require the privacy of the study ; for
it is, politically speaking, an obscene act, ’ and
there is no merit in being more indecent than
anyone else.


PALING'S (Patented)
VICTOR PIANOS.
Old
Pianos
taken
tin
Exchange.
You
cannot buy
better value
than
Paling’s
New Creation
The
Three Pedal
‘ Victor
Upright
Grand
Piano.
Octaves.
Built to Wear.
Guaranteed 7 years.
Free Catalogues.
w h. PALING Lto°’
338 Geo.-st.,
Sydney.
s?
Catalogues Free.
Pianos
Sold
on
Easy
Terms.
W. H. Paling' Co., Ltd.
338 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
6>6e S* (E>6e Genuine)
LIPP PIANO.
L,IPP PIANOS are the leading
Pianos p f German Manufac-
ture. They have been in use
all over Australia for over
40 years long enough to
prove their merits.
m
m
P
r\
Old Pianos taKen in Exchange.
New Pianos Sold on Easy Terms.
Catalogues Free.
W. H. Paling' O. Co., Ltd.
338 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
INDIGESTION and DEBILITY
CURED BY
VITA PATIO
New Plymouth,
Hth October, 1901.
Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Sir,—Being a sufferer from Indigestion and Debility I
was recommended to try VITADATIO. Since taking a
few bottles I have thoroughly regained mv strength, and
have much pleasure in forwarding you this Testimonial.
O. BENNETT,
Leech Street,
New Plymouth.
Whakapara, Whangani, Auckland, N.Z.
Mr. S. A. PALMER. June 28, 1899.
Dear Sir,—Your VITADATIO is a splendid cure for
Rheumatism.
0. A. MACKEN.
For further particulars,
8. A. PAL3IER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The Price of Medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
Do You
Wear a
Truss ?
If So,
TRY
Denyer's Elastic Trass*
IT IS THE VERY BEST.
No Discomfort to Wearer. Suits any Rupture.
Prices "| 7/6 Single ; 25/ ■ DouBI,B -
Send Measure and P.O. Order.
ncuvco DDnc 281 oeorce st., Sydney
UCNTEn KSnUO- Opp. Hunter St.
AND AT MELBOURNE.
Newman’s
Antiseptic Pastilles.
The Best fob all Affections- of the Throat.
TRY THEM. PRICE-ONE SHILLING. .
S. HARRIS, M.P. S., Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Telephone 2288. r ' 82 KING-ST., SYDNEY.
Hints about Panama Hats.
"I T Will interest otir readers to know that Cbas. Gilbert,
the leading Gent.’s Outfitter, Queen-street, Brisbane,
has just returned from visiting the centres of manufacture
for these scarce lines, and can supply the genuine article,
in either Alpine or folding shape, at 18s. 6d., 225. 6d.,
255. to 455. (for cash with order) securely packed, and
carriage paid to any address in the Commonwealth. 30
per cent, better value than any in the Southern States.
At Dawn and Dusk:
By V. J. Daley. In handsome cloth,
with portrait. Price 55.; postage, 4d.
The Bent railway policy in Victoria is
having its effect. Owing to some of the permanent-
way men being dismissed the trains, for safety
sake, have to be run much more slowly. It is
now quite common for a train to arrive at its
destination half a day late. A train due at Donald
from Birchip arrived, on three successive days,
three, four and five hours behind. Much over-
time is also being worked by employees. One
engine-driver, who had been on duty from day-
break on a Monday morning, couldn’t keep up
any longer than Thursday night, falling asleep
alongside, a truck. Another driver had to take
his train on for him, though he, also, had a deal of
overtime to his credit at the time. Station-
masters, guards and porters are also overworked.
The Australian Mutual Provident Society
announces in this issue that the annual division of
surplus will be made as at 31st December next, when all
policies then on the books will share in the bonus to be
then distributed. This feature of the Society’s operations
is at all times specially interesting to the members, as it
is quickly followed by an intimation of the most
gratifying kind in the shape of a bonus certificate shew-
ing the amount of each individual share in the profits of
the' year. The cash bonus divided among the members
for the year 1901 was the largest ever allotted by the
Society in a single year and reached the enormous sum
of £538,725, yielding reversionary bonuses of about one
million sterling. To those who may not be assured, as
well a 3 those who already hold policies in this well known
institution, but who may wish to increase the amount, it
is advisable to point out the urgent necessity of securing
the necessary assurance before the close of the current
year, so as to reap the benefit of the bonus to be declared
as the result of this year’s operations. Applications
should be sent in early, either to the head office, or
through any of the District offices or agents of the
Society.*
MARY'S
LINIMENT
AN OLD-ESTABLISHED CURE
; FOR All Chest Troubles, Lumbago,
Rheumatism, Sore Throat,
Sprains, Stiff Neck, Backache
and Kindred Complaints,
WHOLESALE AGENTS—
ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Limited,
O’Connell-street, Sydney,
AND TO BE HAD OP
83r ALL CHEMISTS.
OF INTEREST to MEN
T)EAR SIR, —I have been cured of weakness and De-
bilitv by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
street, Sydney.
11
&
mm
|gßH|
it
i
I ■ '
Duty and
Post Free
CALLAGHAN
BOOT
Boots Exchanged
or
Money Returned
You may
trust us
for fit-
Gentlemenorderingfrom the country can quite easily
get new and stylish Shoes BY POST ; they can get
all the advantages in value that keen city competi-
tion affords ; they can, by following the instructions we
give below, get an accurate, comfortable fit.
1. State size of Shoe worn, and, if necessary, send an old one as a
check.
2. Place the foot upon a piece of paper and, firmly pressing it
down, draw a pencil line closely round it for shape of tread.
3. State if your foot is narrow, medium, or broad, as we have
different widths in every size of Shoe.
i. State whether broad, medium, or narrow toes required.
Are you wearing comfortable Boots?
Do they wear a long time ?
The Callaghan Boot is Cheap, be-
cause of its durability.
MEN l2™pSfnTd N u?y^e AL 23/6 ACE ’ beS *° ke
MEN, f S ree A 24/6 ILLOW LACE> full goloshed, fast color, eyelets, 23/6; post and duty
When ordering please say whether you want the fullest fitting of your size or otherwise.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st., Sydney.


Banking. Public Companies, See.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
fc3>
<&
i
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3xr.s,-w.
(Hont delete OJ|. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
17 A CASTLEREAGH ST., *7£
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
'—TH 15-
Colonial Mutual L>ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. 3 F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Robbrtb,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299 assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—pouitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
file Qankof j|orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 900 ... £350,000
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED. “
CAPITAL PAID-UP : .. .. £451,307
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 181,859
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 66,000
£689,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Kdwd. 1). Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Queensland Smelting (Jumpy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street. Melbourne.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. litd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jbssop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlank ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. VV.
Farquiiar. J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital ... .. £2,500,000
Hank of Neiv South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGB STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. ~ .. 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,285,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 2,000,000 0 0
Total .. .. 5,285,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Chas. K. Mackbllar, M.L.C., President.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator Jambs Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Auditors:
A. G. Milson, Esq. Harrington Palmer, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
Tae Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £9576 13 4
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BOItROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
supping;
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West&South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Saturday, Nov. 8, 2 p.m.
Bumnyong, Tues., Nov. 11, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Burrumbeet, Tues., Nov. 25, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Burrumbeet, Tues., Nov. 25, 5 p.m.
(No Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 8, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra, Tues., Nov. I], 5 p.m.
Peregrine,Saturday, Nov. 15, 2 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 8,2 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Nov. 15, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices—Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot of King-street.
WHITE STAR LINE
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
RUNIC, to Sail on or about 21st NOVEMBER.
MEDIC, AERIC, SUEVIC, and PERSIC
to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 27 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 33 2 6
Only One Class of" Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
jjuddart, parker f Co’s Cine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
A. IST X>
LINE
■ ’l] I
via
San Francisco,
California.
NEW
SERIES
OF
EXCURSIONS
TO THE
RIVIERA
OP
AMERICA.
FIRST-CLASS THROUGHOUT
COSTS £6O.
Covering Return Passages, Steamer and Rail, Hotel
Expenses in San Francisco, and Hotel Del Monte,
Southern California, about Ten Days’ stay in America,
with liberty to remain longer. Steamers leave as
follows:
THE GREAT
/ OVERSEA >
\ OVERLAND /
HIGHWAY
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM,
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, and AMERICA.
The NEWEST, LARGEST (GOOD Tons each), FASTEST,
and ONLY TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS engaged in
the TRANS PACIFIC PASSENGER SERVICE from
Australia and New Zealand.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMS HIE CO., 1/JO.
BURNS, PHILP cite CO., LTI)., Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bin doe Sts. SYDNEY.
riIHE Directors of the PERPETUAL
J- TRUSTEE COMPANY, Limited,
Sydney, have TRUST FUNDS to LEND
in sums from £3OO to £50,000 on security of
revenue-producing City and Suburban Properties
or Country Broad Acres, at from 4 per cent.
Special facilities given for payments in reduction
without fine or notice.
2iL r No. 56 ACETYLENE GAS Catalogue
'l&Qgasm
is the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Best
ACETYLENE CAS GENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, and
everything in connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Cas
Generators
in daily use.
Large Stocks of the
Best
Carbide
ofCalcium
Quotations on application.
James MARTIN & CO.,
161 Clarence Street,
Nr. King-st., Sydney.
EVERY WOMAN
jssi&j
>?V-
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new Vaginal Syringe.
Injection and Suction. The best,,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. Endorsed by Physicians.
MARVEL CO., Times Building, N.Y.
Sole Australasian Agents—
The Marvel Co. of Australia,
(Box 623 6.P.0.) CAHDEN BUILDINGS,
418 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Medical.
ASK FOR
ROSE’S CELEBRATED
Eye Lotion
Cures All Affections of the Eyes.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
LARGEST SALE OP ANY DENTIFRICE.
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC
Tooth Powder.
A unique and efficacious preparation for
cleansing the teeth and strengthening the gums.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
nxr. id. Hi.
(N ORD-DEUTSOHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Wednesday after Sj'dney.
Interstate First Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
Via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN, 26th NOVEMBER,
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL:
Dec. 1, Dec. 29, Jan. 26.
CHEAPEST AND BEST ROUTE
TO
GAIAiA, lIIIITED STATES
AND
GREAT BRITAIII.
ONION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STiTT, General Passenger Agent.
THE FINEST TONIC
FERBRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
tn concentrated drops.
FERBRAVAIS
FERBRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blingthi'constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of aneemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET “A beautiful and intereiting
preparation.”
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL. -"lthas all
the good effect*- of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
t does not blacken the teeth."
SOLD BY CHEMISTS ALL THE WORLD OVER.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and frorc
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORT 3
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Warrego,
Friday, November 7
S.S. Marloo,
Saturday, November S.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Porta North to Cairns
S.S. Warrego, Sat., Nov. 8.
S.S. Rockton, Sat., Nov. 15.
S.S. Allinjfa, Friday, Nov. 21.
Jiest and Cheapest Houte to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, C BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
iin ■ mm n i him—-«n
A. U. S- IM. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Maokay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON- Twice weekly, via Bris-
bane, Maryborough, and Bundaberg.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every S Weeks, via BrH
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA
via MELBOURNE—Fortnightly.
Vassent/er A oco mmodation, Attendance aiul
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are Interchangeable after the
first.port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. 11. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and VV. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHII.P and CO, Ltd., Agents, In Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
D AND SN COMPANY'S
KJm ROYAL MAIL STEAMERB
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific,
Messageries Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Mari Mmes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows:
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, Fadia, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. Tns Commander. Leave Sydney
EASTERN . 3600 Winthrop Ellis .. November If
AIRLIE 2500 St. John George.. December 6
AUSTRALIAN . .30001 P. T. Helms ..January £
EMPIRE .. 42001 W. G. McArthur.. January
The above steamers were specially built far the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Through bookings to points in Canada, United States
of America and Europe at special rates.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
Lowest Fares and Freights.
For further information apply to
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
SMOKE
Xjul-u
<9®
GBD
INSIST
on having this Brand
and no other.
231
Largest Depot:
CLAR€NC€ STR€€T,
SYDNEY.


CHRONIC k
CONSTIPATION
can toe cured toy
Qhanjberlain’s
Sionjacfj atjd
Xiver Jablets
Price, 1/6 JUST WHAT YOU NEED.
NOTE.—If not able to obtain Chamber-
lain’s stomach and Liver Tablets locally,
a package will be sent, post paid, upon
receipt of 1/6, or six packets for 8/-, by
addressing Chamberlain Medicine Co., 64
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. 121
! FREE ;
Buy a
KODAK
and enter
for the . .
Kodak
Amateur
Photographic
Competition.
Over £7O in Prizes,
Full particulars on application to
KODAK Ltd.,
284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please mention this Paper.
GENERAL ELECTRIC
INCANDESCENT LAMPS.
THE EDISON LAMP Abso,u T t H e^ BEST!
Annual Sales, 18,000,000.
After Competitive Tests, 63,750 were
purchased by the Melb. City Council.
LONC LIFE. HIGH EFFICIENCY.
Large Stock always on hand.
AUSTRALIAN
General Electric Co.,
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, Melbourne and Sydney.
Motors, Dynamos, Steam Dynamo Sets, etc. 9 also in Stock.
TRADE
FOX
MARK
FOX Bros. & Co,, Ltd., warn the public that their Trade Mark consists
ONLY OF THE WORD FOX
which is a guarantee of soundness of material and quality of dye of all
Worsted Coatings, Serges & Tweeds
on which it is stamped.
As the result of many years of experience . . .
FOX’S PURE INDIGO DYE
is recognised as the best in the market. All FOX’S Standard Cloths are
stamped every two yards on the back —
FOX
PURE NDIGO
and without this stamp are not genuine. These celebrated serges can be
obtained from the leadirg Tailors and Drapers throughout the Colonies.
fOX BROS & Co., Ltd., WELLINGTON, SOMERSET, England.
ENO’S
HEALTH GIVING
COOLING,
‘FRUIT
REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING.
SALT.’
THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT where it has been
taken in the earliest stages of a disease, it has, in
innumerable instances, PREVENTED what would other-
wise have been a SERIOUS ILLNESS.
CAUTION.— See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT WORKS, LONDON, ENG.,
by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
The Wild Cat Column.
( Continued).
“ Nardo ” writes : Accumulation of sft. of water
in Cobar new reservoir from last ’43 deluge emphasises
the wisdom of quick concentration. Much against local
advice, the Works Dept, decided that a score or two of
drains were necessary ; result as above, as against .
from previous better falls. London-owned Mt. Boppy
40-head stamp-mill, cyanide and compressed-air slime
plant started in full swing last month. Latest addition to
plant—condensers—has already improved on the obsolete
condition of taking the rainfall on chance. Original daily
consumption of water, 26,000ga1.; now, 6000 gal.—a saving
of 140,000ga1. a week. With 7ft. of water in a. tank of
84,000yds. and a shaft inflow of useable water of 30,000ga1.
daily, Mt. Boppy has reasonable possibilities of going
until the machinery has been several times renewed.
Mt. Boppv South, on supposed continuation of Boppy
reef, has started operations with locally subscribed capi--
tal.- —Consequent on Cobar old and new watersheds
getting a three months supply, water-trains from W arren
bore have ceased running. The copper-nnne crowd will
now continue to work 168 hrs. per week on this water,
which has taken 12 months to collect, and which, at the
rate of 50,000ga1. per day, will disappear before Cobar has
had time for a decent wash. Occidental, Cobar, got
4ft of water in its tank as the result of recent rainfall,
and started the battery on a possible four weeks’ run.—
Younn 1 Australia, Western, Chesney, and other possibili-
ties, all hung-up for want of water or mineral. Writer
does not profess to -know much about Chesney s mineral
deposit, but is satisfied that the shaft-supply of water
would be sufficient, if treated by condensers, to keep the
mine in full swing and at a nominal cost.
* * * *
Adeline Mines, Ltd., recently registered in
London with a capital of £lOO,OOO. Mine situated at
Drake (N.S.W.). If half this amount is available to
develop the mine and provide suitable treatment plant it
may be successful. Tributors have been working the
show for some time with good results. Lodes are rich m
gold and copper ; ore is siliceous, but there is abundance
of requisite fluxes close at hand. Prospects good enough
to warrant co. going ahead vigorously on a sound policy
of development first and equipment afterwards. Drake
is the worst-neglected field in N.S.W. It has been
heavily handicapped by successive White Rock failures.
One-third of the money which has been fooled away on
that white elephant, judiciously spent on the opposite
ridge, would have established one of the most prosperous
mining camps in the State. There is no question as to
the richness of the lodes, but it may be said that they are
too small to be worked by a big co. The veins worked by
co-operative parties have been small, but there are lots of
them, and as they occur in separate series, one dipping
towards the other, writer believes that at the junction
there will be found a massive ore-body of high quality.
The big gold and silver-bearing dyke formation at Sawpit
Gully is to be taken in hand by a new syndicate, headed
by ilorlon, a successful W.A. manager, who formerly
worked at Drake. He is quite satisfied that the values
are there, and is confident that he can extract them at a
good profit.
“ Wager ” : Broken Hill Proprietary has paid
£8,111,000 in divs. ; Mt. Morgan, £5,892,983 ; and Mt.
Bischoff, £2,014,000. No other mining co. over two-
million mark.
¥ * * *
Mount Lyell returns for the past four months:
Ore. Copper. Silver. Gold.
Tons. Tons. Ozs. Ozs.
July .. 24,291 565 53.831 1,791
Aug. .. 25,042 485 48,011 1,762
Sept. .. 24,087 541 53,492 2,0L7
Oct. .. 23,504 467 45,472 1,681
Totals -.. 96,884 2,058 200,806 7,251
The averages all-round tell of a decline compared with
the corresponding period last year. It is questionable
whether these figures can show any real profit. The actual
value of the metals is not above 325. per ton of ore;
mining and smelting absorb 235., and the balance has to
cover official costs, freight on copper, refiner’s deductions
and charges, and depreciation and renewals of plant.
Certainly, there cannot be profit enough to meet the
diminished divs. now being paid. It would be a shock to
market operators for the co. to suspend smelting, and,
pending improvement in metal values, to utilise the
balance of the reserve fund in mine exploration and de-
velopment, hue it can hardly be doubted that such a
course of action would ultimately be advantageous.
■«•***
What lias been done at Shuttleton copper-mine,
N.S.W.,in regard to making profit out of ore won in
development work, is being done at the O.K. mine, north
of the Walsh River, about 45 miles from Mungana, N.Q.
The O.K. has a surface bonanza of grey ore, and the first
consignment sent to Mt. Garnet averaged 44 per cent,
copper. Local papers state that, after payment of smelt-
ing and realisation charges, O.K. people received 19 per
ton wherewith to pay mining, bagging, cartage and rail-
age. For ore of the same value, the management is
assured of a net return of £lO per ton, if the stone is sent
direct to England, after paying everything, including min-
ing, from mine to market. Massive sulphides of very high
copper value have been struck at water level. Two shafts
are being sunk in rich ore. One Bulletin correspondent
opined that the O.K. mine will be forgotten six months
hence. By that time the lucky shareholders will be re-
joicing. They are in a mine which possesses cooper
galore if not a market quotation. As Warden Haldane
reported : ‘ This mine has enough copper in sight to
justify building a railway to work it.’” Thus writes an
optimistic N.Q. man. Exactly the same was said of Chil-
lagoe and Garnet, and railways were built. Ultimate
result will probably be that Q. Govt, will make a bargain
in a second-hand-rail deal. These disastrous failures
ought to impress on N.Q. men the soundness of the
mining motto, “ Develop your mines; then build railways
and erect smelters, and let them talk.”
' 'm ' * * ♦
Tom. Coventry, Brisbane, sends this enlighten-
ing item: “I have just returned from a three months’
sojourn at Tartana Hill. It is bigger and richer than I
ever expected it to turn out, and that is saying a lot.
The metalliferous zone of the Ohillagoe district is north
of the Walsh. Tartana Hill is in hydromica schists of
Cambro-Silurian age, and the eruptive rhyolytes (obsidian
or true volcanic glass) are in close proximity. Similar
country extends to 0.K., about a dozen miles from the
Mitchell River. O.K. is only 40 miles from the Palmer,
and via O.K. that field will be re-opened in the near
future.”
• * * *
The shortage in the world’s supply of platinum
is again drawing attention in Europe. For some purposes
in electrical engineering no effective substitute is known ;
and in the German Reichstag, recently, it was proposed
to put a legal prohibition on its use for anything else.
The supply is most precarious, and, though the price is
now above that of gold, is not increasing. In numerous
places in N.S.W. platinum is known to occur, but nowhere
is it scientifically searched for. Probably few prospectors
know it when they see it; but the acquaintance is worth
having
V ♦ * *
A Corryong (Upper Murray) man writes : “A
lode of antimonial ore has been found about 15 miles
from here. Local assays show 50 per cent, antimony, 4
per cent, gold, and 6 per cent, silver.” Not gold and
silver in oz., but ill percentages ! Changed to common
oz. standard these figures mean : Gold, 1300 oz.; silver,
19500 z. per ton. Strong !
* * * *
After all, Victoria’s butter-export trade, of
which it thinks so much, is but a mouthful of the U.K.’s
meal. Last year, Victoria exported 6371 tons (this has
dropped to 3083 for the first eight months of this year),
against M.L.’s 7430 tons, Russia’s 13,820, France’s 10,144,
Holland’s 10,-641, and Denmark’s 55,742 ! Total British
import this year (eight months) already reaches 136,868
tons !
• • * *
The balance-sheet of a W.A. co. managed in
London shows that £1360 was paid to directors and secre-
tary for a year, and £52 10s. to an auditor, while the ex-
penditure in W.A. was only £264.
* * » *
Geologist Goeczel has given an only-moderately
encouraging report on the supposed petroleum-bearing
country at Warren River (W.A.), so heartily condemned
lately by the Govt. Geologist. Though Mr. Goeczel had
time to write a very long report, he pleads that he had
not the time to determine whether the coastal sandstones
are bituminous or not; and, as he says it could easily be
done, it is a pity he didn’t do it instead of merely con-
cluding from a lot of data that they most probably are
bituminous. But even if they are bituminous, it does
not necessarily follow that they are petroleum-bear-
ing. There are signs that Warren River and Meerup
Brook pass through an “ oil horizon ” in the sandstone
rocks ; but as this “ horizon ’’ must long since have been
bled of its petroleum, if it ever had any, the only thing
to do is to bore deeper in the most uncertain search for
another.
* * * *
Captain Ellis Parker, late manager of the mori-
bund Credo, Broad Arrow, who has enjoyed. £4OO a
year for the past three years as consulting engineer in
London to that notorious wild cat, the Zoroastrian, is
expected in W. A. shortly to superintend the removal of
the 40-head mill from Hope’s Hill, Southern Cross, to the
Zoroastrian. Co. has been twice reconstructed since its
flotation in 1897, and has never been able to keep its 10-
head battery running, except at irregular intervals. The
shaft is not down 400 ft., and, having been sunk on the
footwall side of the lode, long and ever longer crosscuts
will be necessary at every succeeding level to reach the
ore. The mine never was any good, and certainly never
justified its existence in any shape or form. At present
there are absolutely no ore reserves, and it will take at
least six months of hard work to open up even one level.
The battery could chew up all the ore in one level in a
month, as the reef is very narrow. In the face of these
fasts the erection of a battery capable of treating 4000
tons monthly seems idiotic.
* • • •
When the Westralian Government’s water
supply reaches Coolgardie goldfields it will find this
beautiful snag waiting for it. The State reckons it can
supply water at 7s. per 1000 gallons, and as Coolgardie is
now paying the Coolgardie Waterworks Co. £1 ss. per 1000
gallons' the benefit looks something enormous. But the
co. says, in effect, that having, while its monopoly lasted,
mercilessly sweated the public out of an enormous ;
amount, sufficient to far more than pay for all its works, i
it is now practically a concern with no interest to pay on ;
cost of construction, and so it can sell water at 6s. per
1000 gallons, and thus undersell the State—which has its
works still to pay for. Also, it is understood that it in-
tends doing so. Of course the people, knowing that but
for the State enterprise the old extortion of 255. per 1000
gallons would have continued indefinitely, ought, in
common decency, to buy the Government water at 7s.
per 1000 gallons, or even more, instead of supporting the
old private iniquity at 65., but it doesn’t follow that they
will do so. The fact that the Coolgardie Waterworks
Co. is the same concern as that fellow iniquity, the great
Hampton Plains Land Co., doesn’t help things. It simply
means that the great land concession which W.A. I
foolishly gave to this mighty grab concern has helped to
supply it with the means for the waterworks extortion,
and will further help it with the means to oppose and
undermine the people’s own water-supply enterprise.
Chronic Constipation results from a lack of
moisture in the residual matter of the food.
It becomes so dry and hard that the muscular
coating of the intestines is unable to expel
it. Two of Chamberlain’s Stomach and
Liver Tablets should be taken to begin
with and after that one each day, When
taken just after supper they will insure an
operation of the bowels on the following
morning. In most cases this lack of moisture
in the faecal matter is caused by an insuffi-
ciency of water being taken into the system
and cannot be cured unless more water is
taken with the food or drink. If taken
with the food, unless in shape of fruits
(apples and bananas), it is apt to interfere
with the processes of digestion; but if a regu-
lar habit is established of taking a full glass
of water as soon as you get up in the morning,
about two hours after each meal, and just be-
fore going to bed, it will in most cases correct
the disorder—not at once, but in time.
Chamberlain’s Stomach and Liver Tafo=
lets are not intended for habitual use but
to give temporary relief until a cure can be
effected by taking more water into the system
and establishing a regular habit by having
the bowels move every morning immediately
after breakfast whether there is an inclination
or not.


Punishment.
Social progress has done away with a great many
forms of punishment once administered under the
laws of enlightened people. But nature never
changes or modifies her
penalties ; she still has
the same punishment
for the man who neg-
lects or abuses his
stomach, as she had in
the far-off days “when
Adam delved and Eve
span.” The physical dis-
comfort, dulness, slug-
gishness, irritability,
nervousness, and sleep-
lessness which are visited
upon the man who eats
carelessly or irregularly
have been from the
beginning the evidences
of diseases of the stomach
and its associated organs
of digestion and nutri-
tion. Dr. Morse's
Indian Root Pills cure
the diseased stomach,
and enable the perfect
digestion and assimila-
tion of food, so that
the sluggishness, irrita-
bility, nervousness and
sleeplessness, which re-
sult from innutrition, are also cured. We
cannot do better than to use the words of
Mr. J. H. King, 11 Jersey Terrace, Sydney,
whose experience along this line entitles his
statement to more than ordinary consideration.
“It is with the utmost pleasure I testify to
the efficacy of 1)r. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
in a case of chronic dyspepsia. Eor many years
I suffered from this dire complaint, with its
attendant evils ; have consulted doctors and tried
innumerable remedies, with no beneficial result.
At last, on the recommendation of a friend, I
purchased a bottle of your Pills (putting little
faith in them), but was surprised, after a few
days, to find my digestion decidedly improved,
and now I am pleased to inform you that, after a
course of your Pills, I am perfectly free from all
symptoms, have a good appetite, and can digest
any kind of food.”
u
SEMPER IDEM.
| FACILE PRINCEPS. 1
BUCHANAN WHISKY
Can We Prove our Claims ? Our Friends do it for us i
, , Martin, who won last year’s “ Austral ”, on a Red Bird, was tempted, whilst in America recently,
evL.fim t W °i j' 6 l°P a I machines. He says: “I tried three or four, and broke them all up ; and then I
L ° i!T Id i r 0 >a ? c , l le old Red Bird I took over with me to train on. I never had a minute’s
a<«-ain this season « a,ld not^inar induce me to try any more'experiments. I shall ride my Red Bird
you to 1 choose " * lO *'* dn ' £ knows a good bike when he sees one. Perhaps his experience may help
Branches in every State. GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King-st., Sydney.
The Australian Commission Agency Company,
101 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE,
Communicates with
“TATTERSALL,” HOBART.
A LL THE First and Second Prizes for Port Wines
wereTakknby at Adelaide Wine Show, October, 1902,
Hardy’s Adelaide Wines
Cellars: 15 CROSVENOR ST., SYDNEY, and at ADELAIDE and MELBOURNE.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The Melbourne Cup of. 1902 : The Victory, lq
Vanity Fair, 2; Abundance, 3. Truly “form” is a
vain thing, and performances .are dust and ashes,
and tips are of no account. Not one paper
gave The Victory as a straight - out winner—
though, after the event, when it is easier to be wise
than to remain the other thing, his very name sticks
out as a tip of the plainest description. Vanity
Fair, also, was hardly mentioned. Of the Melbourne
papers, which had a closer view of the candidate than their
contemporaries, four gave Abundance as the winner, and
one gave Patronage, while three put The Persian second,
and two put Patronage second. The Victory was men-
tioned in the betting on Monday night as a 40 to 1 chance,
and Vanity Fair stood at the same price. Meanwhile,
Abundance was-quoted at 5 to 1.
» • * *
The Victory is a 4-year-old, by Ihe Admiral
from The Charmer, and belongs to Messrs. Clark and
Robinson. At two years he won a race at Fleming-
ton, but there wap no special merit in the
performance. Next ' year V.R.C. Standish Handi-
cap fell to him, as did Elms Handicap in
the autumn of the same season. He closed on S.A.J.C.
St. Leger, and was second in Adelaide Cup, appropriated
by Tie Idler. At A.lt.C. meeting, Parkside Stakes (9.3)
and Birthday Cup (14 miles), with 8.11 up, were an-
nexed bv him. The Victory looked a good nag un-
questionably, but he showed nothing latterly, beyond
gathering the two events (already mentioned) last week,
to indicate that he would get near his Wheat State form,
hence the outside price. ’Tis years since the hook-nosed
had such a turn up with the tvvo big Cups, deep though
their dip into the public pocket almost invariably is over
an important handicap.
* * * *
There was some talk of the V.R.C. committee
taking steps to suppress “ bookmaker’s runners” at the
Cup meeting. The “runner” is the tempestuous
nuisance who rushes around the betting paddock, giving
Ikey Mo. the “ office ” when a few pounds have been put
upon a horse by somebody who is probably acting for the
stable. For example, Schlenter Alo., the Great Cash
Metallician, offers 8 to 1 against Fizgig as long as he
hasn’t written its name in his blessed book. Then a hard-
faced myrmidon rushes up to him with the whisper that
a recognised commissioner has taken £5OO to £5O about
Fizgig from a comparatively respectable .Jew who “lays
to his book ” on a rather large scale and deals with owners
and their agents direct. Whereupon Schlenter Mo. roars
“4 to 1 Fizgig ! ” And Lazarus Conkv takes up the cry.
The cry goes all around the timid ring. And the public
fight for the privilege of accepting 4 to 1 Fizgig because
the price has been suddenly shortened on information re-
ceived from the runner. The objection to the “ runner ”
is firstly that he operates for the unfair advantage of
bookmakers against backers, and secondly that he pushes
people right and left when he doesn’t actually trample
upon their bodies in his haste to carry news to his
employer.
* * * *
The efforts of Melbourne dailies to magnify the
importance of the paltry Cup wagering at the Victorian
Club, last week, would have been very droll had they not
been quite contemptible. Men who report such stuff as
“ After Flagship had been befriended for £3OO at 100 to 6
ha hardened a point,” or “Fully £5OlO was secured at
100 to 3 about Vanity Fair, which caused the mare to
shorten a point,” are merely acting as pimps to Ikey Mo.
Their object, seemingly, is to lure the guileless, outside
punters into accepting these peddling transactions—the
“ hedging " bets of one little bookmaker with another, in
most cases—as the significant movements of an active
“ market.” As long as punters are content to be thus
bluffed into risking their little sovs. at preposter-
ously short odds, a swarm of pettifogging “books”
will continue to live on their gullibility, whereas, if
the true state of affairs were pungently reported,
the public would hold aloof until something like a fair
market was offered to them. Take the two cases quoted
above. “ Ihe befriending of Flagship for £3OO at £lOO to 6”
meant that £lB was put on the horse. And the effect of
tint trumpery backing was to reduce the quotation from
16it to 1 to 14 2-7 to l,i.e.,it “hardened” more than 2
points, anyhow. If a genuine sporting backer had come
along with £lOO for Flagship, the hook-nosed cormorants
at the Rooms (imposing word “Rooms!”) would have
made the animal a new first favorite, and their newspaper
creatures would have announced in exciting cross-
h.ladings that Flagship was “ Heavily Supported.” If
Vanity Fair was backed for £5OOO it represented a total
outlay of about £l6O, after which the price was shortened
from 33 to 1 to 25 to 1 (10J to 4), viz., 8 points.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.— The tip that is based on
dreams and omens comes off sometimes. A week before
Caulfield Cup my tenant left suddenly without paving
the bill. I backed Lieutenant Bill on the strength of
that, and it cS-me off. I have my eye on another tip, also
based on an omen, and will write again.—Yours. &c..
T. Salt. '
• • » *
Duke of Grafton was the first Debutant Stakes
winner in 16 years that has managed to carry a 101 b.
penalty to the fore for the Maribyrnong Plate. Acme
and Hortense, in ’B5 and ’B6, scored the double event, but
after them there was a long run of failures until the big
colt got home on Saturday. Evidently 101 b. is a lot of
weight for a first-class youngster to give away to other
top-nolchers in a race down the Flemington
straight, where they gallop hell-for-leather all the
time. The Bulletin in last issue reckoned Duke
of Grafton good enough, to do it, but he did it with
only a head to spare, and his brilliant performance
in record time was a satire on-the betting market. Ikey
Mo never offered more than 5 to 4 .against the favorite.
He ended by demanding odds of 5 to 4 on. Conse-
quently, the hoisting of-the Duke’s number (Tom Payten
was afraid he hadn’t won) was received with an almost
general silence and sadness. Ikey— i.e., as many of him
as didn’t open the Book'before the day—had the best of
the deal. The public took tempting odds about Ozaro-
vitch, Martinique, Lady Lottie and co. The public
always lose when a hot favorite wins, although news-
paper fiction always represents the result as a popular
victory.
« * * •
The finish of the Derby, as seen from the upper
Grand Stand, was likely to have produced another protest.
When Abundance, on the outside, began to trouble Great
Scot, the latter sw'erved out as though the horse, or his
rider, were trying to,block the favorite. Another effort
by Abundance, and some more swerving by Great Scot.
Then, when the two long-striding colts were about
level, they both seemed to keep a straight course
and the better stayer won by a length. But for being
checked in his run he might have won rather easily. As
it was he beat the time record by fsec. Hautvilliers, last
year, was 2secs. better than the previous record, and now
Abundance has clipped fsec. off the 2,37 of the Ballarat
colt. Doubtless he is one of the best on the list of blue-
ribbon winners, but the-improved pace was not all to do
with the excellence of the animal or the style in which
the race was run. Flemington course improves every
year. When it is as smooth as the proverbial billiard
table they will travel theUerby distance in 2.34.
To those who had not seen Strata Florida until
he was stripped for the Derby, it must have seemed
incredible that such a comparatively leggy colt could be
talked of as a natural “ stayer.” Abundance, lengthy,
level-backed, “full of substance,” looked a Cup horse all
over, whereas Strata Florida, on Saturday,-gave one the
impression of speed, rather than stamina. And he ran
up to appearances in the Derby. Perhaps the Grafton
oolt had pone off during £he*previous week, as the touts
said. Maybe he will r#?erse the Derby running after this
is written. Meajjvnle, present scribe believes that
Abundance is uistinctly better 3-year-old than Strata
over any dista. ce from a mile upwards.
Two or three weeks ago a Bulletin par. sug-
gested the possibility of The Victory beating Wakeful for
Melbourne Stakes, Out tb’* was an unkind aspersion on
the character of a famous lady. Wakeful won the nice
little Stakes in her own inimitable way, whilst The
Victory (a 33 to 1 chance), not quite wound up for a
desperate struggle, finished a length behind her. The
result will show whether this distressing effort advanced
The Victory’s preparation for the Cup or otherwise. His
‘ bellows ’’ were going after the gallop, when the hose
was turned on him. But he is a real good horse, and if
he keeps up to his work, The Victory should win at least
one race before the week is out.
• • • •
Patronus won a race at last—the Maiden Plate
—beating a field of horses in respectable time. It was
his thirty-second attempt, and the son of Patron returned
to the “bird cage” with a seeming consciousness of
having done something unusual and phenomenal—for
him.
• • • •
Remarkable that better than a fourth of Mel-
bourne Cup field (Felicitous, Lieutenant Bill, Vanity
Fair, Abundance, Oakwood, Progredior, and Sojourner)
were sired by Pilgrim’s Progress. Onlv other sires repre-
sented by more than one nag were The Admiral (Flagship
and The Victory) and Grafton (Brakpan and Strata
Florida). N.S.W. had 10 in the race to Victoria’s 12.
» • * •
Wakeful’s Melbourne Stakes success made her
18th win, and brought the total moneys scooped for her
owner, Mr. C. L. M'Donald, to £12,436.
♦ • • *
Pilgrim’s Progress is taking on gilt. Last year
his progeny scooped £4017 and look like doing better this.
Already Abundance (A.J.C. Derby) and Lieutenant Bill
(Caulfield Cup), exclusive of smaller winners, have
heaped up about £5OOO.
• * • •
Vendetta, dam of Feud and Oakwood, foaled a
filly at Woodlands (Vic.), the other day, then two days
later she was found to have foaled another filly—both
being well-grown. Nymph, by Hawthornden—Queen of
Clubs (dam of Glencoe), when sold in Dec., ’99, had three
foals at foot. She foaled a filly on Sept. 12, a colt Oct. 6,
and a colt Oct. 23. Another instance is on record of a
M L. mare giving birth to twin foals, and about three
months later she produced a “good colt foal.”
• * m •
A prominent Southern publican entered his dog
for a coursing match some time ago, and his chances
were considered extremely good. He, however, backed
the other dog, and, therefore, gave his own a big lump of
steak a few minutes prior to the match. Just before
starting the publican’s dog was seized with an acute
bilious attack, and lost his hold on the beef, which was
pounced upon and eagerly swallowed by the opposing
dog. The result may be conjectured. Bung’s dog
romped home an easy winner, and Bung himself returned
home ruminating on the glorious uncertainty of the
digestive organs of dogs.
* » * *
Sweet Nell, who won the Encourage Stakes for
S’Rupert Clarke, last Saturday, is about the prettiest and
cutest of this season’s two-year-olds, thusfar. A rich
brown, with black points, she has a dainty Arab head and
a wide-awake eye. Sweet Nell from top to toes.
* • * *
Well-known sportsman, Mr. W. JI. Mate (of
Tarcutta, N.S.W.), experienced a bit of ill-luck, t’other
day, in the death of Angora, the dam of speedy Ibex.
Angora was found dead within a few hours of foaling.
She was foaled at late Hon. Jas. White’s stud farm, Kirk-
ham, in 1882, and was sister to Woodlands by Maribyr-
nong from The Alpaca by Kingston (imp.). At break up
of Kirkham stud, Mr. Mate bought Angora heavy in foal
with Ibex, who has since won Maribyrnong Plate, A.J 0.
Champagne Stakes, and Caulfield Guineas.
* l * * m
Sydney police, in their spasmodic “shop” raid
night before V.R.G. Derby, yarded 08 “silver” bettors,
but missed as many more in the forceful rush from the
back of one shop (the bigger of the two), despite that a
thick line of blue coats spread themselves across the lane.
None in the smaller shop escaped ; there was only one
get away there—the front door. Similar shops close by
were soon empty, and the assembled hundreds stopped
all traffic in Pitt-st. for a time. Crowds followed the
batches of prisoners, hooting and jeering the detach-
ments of police in charge. What puzzles the uninitiated
is that though a bigger business is done in the immediate
neighborhood of where all but 10 of the 68 were arrested,
that shop was left religiously alone—Why? It would
surely have been easier to close on those two more im-
portant places than to simply take one and go right
across to a different street. Exactly the same course
was adopted once before, and thinking people wondered
why ; they’ve got further food for reflection this time.
* * * *
Third round of Sydney first-grade cricket, last
Saturday, supplied some big run accumulations, also some
poor results. Waverley, opposed to Burwood, notched
397 for five wickets; and Paddington, pitted against
Leichhardt-Balmain, gathered 342 for nine wickets. Six-
teen wickets, in Glebe v. Sydney match, were down for
176, former making 123 and latter 53 for five wickets.
Central Cumberland could only hit up 126,While their
opponents (Redfern) compiled 82 without loss. ’Varsity’s
total stood 146 against North Sydney’s four for 95.
Aboriginal Marsh was much in evidence (after illness) ; he
secured seven for 52. Crack Central Cumberland player
Pye experienced something of the luck of the game in
being sent pavilionwards for o—a big falling-off compared
with his 150 (not out) of previous Saturday. Great con-
sistency, so far this season, of two Waverley bats, Mac-
kenzie and Ebsworth, was well sustained. Former
notched 88 while C. Gregory was getting 8, and then went
on to 150 before being stumped. Fast as Mackenzie put
them on, Ebsworth’s work was faster ; he made 64 in
25min., and 104 in somewhere about 40min., and all these
were added while Mackenzie was crediting himself with
20. In three innings, to date, Ebsworth’s runs have been
80, 106, and 104, and Mackenzie’s 98, 104 and 150. Old-
time stonewaller Alec Bannerman demonstrated that he
is a long way from done with yet by bringing 62 towards
Paddington’s figures against Leichhardt-Balmain. Worth
mentioning here that, previous week, Paddington selec-
tion committee was deposed for not choosing Bannerman,
and a new one elected in its place.
♦ * * ■
George Giffen has not yet finished his cricket.
Recently he took 5 wickets for 47 in a club match, and
followed this up by making a century against Travers’s
club.. His batting was jn his old style; he has been
training hard for several months.
* * * *
Barnes, the big Lancashire bowler whom
Maclaren introduced into first-class cricket, has now
shown cause for his subsequent loss of form. Last week
he was let in for £3OO damages as co-respondent in a
divorce suit. Unhappy is the cricketer on whom a
married woman beams.
A vicious fight t’other night between muscular
Jimmy Lenton and pallid, slightly-constructed but
clever Hock Keys, at Sydney Gaiety A. 0., ended abruptly
and extraordinarily. Early in the sixth round Keys
rushed and swung an uppercut from low down as Lenton
bore in. No one, not : the referee even, was able to say
where the blow lodged, but most thought it fetched up
against the lower part of the stomach. Lenton put up
his hands on the moment, as if intent upon continuing,
. and then dropped them, falling -to the floor and appar-
ently writhing in agony. His seconds tried to get him on
his feet, but his legs gave way. Then there was babel,
Hundreds in the house screeched “ foul," while more
hooted. The referee was perplexed, and confessed that
what happened escaped him, and called for a doctor to
say whether the blow had landed as claimed or not, but
there was no response. More barneying, and the match
was declared a draw. Writer’s opinion is that it was a
remarkably clever bit of acting by Lenton, who, up to
then, was getting, decidedly the worse of the deal, and
would surely have gone under a round or two later.
Once saw Herb M’Kell lie down and squirm and wriggle
after an alleged low blow, and wear an agonised ex-
pression till referee, ex-champion 'rastler Harry Dunn (an
old bird), intimated that if M’Kell didn’t get up in 3sec.
and fight on, he’d give the battle against him. The effect
was magical; M'Kell arose, full of ginger, and made a
draw of it.
• * * ■
Pocket giant Jack McGowan is making the
pug business pay handsomely. No sooner is one contract
done with than he tackles another, and has been up to
his eyes in stoush for months past. Fighters like Jack,
because he doesn’t haggle over a pound in weight or an
inch or two in height, but takes ’em all on, within reason,
as they come. When someone asked if he was going back
to Melbourne for the Cup, Jack replied, “ Not me ; I’m
staying here as long as fights can be arranged.” Strangely
enough, Frost is the only man near his own height and
poundage McGowan has fought for years, and such a
unique experience was it that he said afterwards it made
him feel uncomfortable. Jack had a closer call with
Frost than in many prior scraps. Stunted, blocky,
'Murkan negro, Joe Walcott (the “ Barbadoes Demon ”),
gets on so well with much bigger and taller men that
they’ve dubbed him “Joe, the Giant-killer”; but when
he tackles those his own weight and height, or there-
abouts, they occasionally squelch him. McGowan fights
Bob Turner next, and should gather in another hundred
or so as the outcome. Though some of the alleged cute
brigade tip that he’ll go down, present writer doesn’t
think so.
* * • •
White-haired Australian middleweight champ.,
“ Snowy ” Sturgeon, has been for a year or so a man who
wants to fight, and can find heaps of backing, but is
unable to get a match. All at the game give “Snowy”
a wide berth as “ dangerous.” A meeting between Stur-
geon and anyone deemed near his equal would fill the
biggest hall Sydney owns, and at fancy prices, too. Said
that National Sporting Club (Sydney) is sending to
’Murka for a good fighter in Sturgeon’s weight and class,
and that body purposes paying all the visitor’s ex’s.,
besides putting up a £5OO purse for the contest. If the
Yankee wants a side bet, Sturgeon’s backers promise to
cover any sum up to a thousand. There’s no mistake
about “Snowy's” fighting power! If Creedon wins
from Doherty (Saturday, this week), he and Sturgeon
may be matched.
* * • •
’Murkan Jim Scanlan fights podgy unwieldy
15-stoner Fred Preston (who’ll have upwards of 2sC.
the better of the weights) in Melbourne, Williams-
town Cup night. They should have a big house
if the Dohert.v-Creedon affair of a couple of nights
before has not left too bitter a taste in the
public mouth. Scanlan thinks he has a “cinch,”
but the Yankee is anything but a knocker-out, and
Preston owns a couple of very weighty fists. Preston is
slow, but Scanlan is no quicker ; if he were the thing
might be different. As it is, the outcome looks an even-
money gamble, and Scanlan will do well if the fight is on
its merits and he comes out best.
* • * •
It apparently takes more than a couple of bullets
to kill a tough-hided fighting machine like grizzly old Joe
Goddard, the “ Barrier Champion.” Latest news con-
cerning him is that he still lives, but as a lunatic, and his
case is considered hopeless.
• * » •
Melbourne Tot Higgins and Sydney Rocks
development, Jack Blackmore, scrapped at Sydney
Gaiety A. 0., Monday night. Tot is the hero of a hundred
or more bruising campaigns, and looks a battle-scarred
veteran, though only a comparative youngster still. His
leather - strapped knee suggested the returned contin-
genter, and he moved the limb in a proppy fashion,
which hinted at the probability of a collapse any moment.
A heavily loaded left hook on the jaw spreadeagled
B'ackmore almost before operations had fairly begun, but
the floored man was up again inside the allotted 10
seconds, heaps more wary and inclined to fight shy of
everything, harmful or otherwise, till he pulled himself
together. Bv-and-bye they mixed it a bit, but Black-
more was always best, for the infirm one could only get
a punch or two home now and again. The Sydneyite’s
left played about- Higgins’ badly battered face
frequently, and partially closed one eye before
they had been at it six rounds. ‘ A black
flesh mound under Blackmore’s left optic showed pro-
minently as the result of forceful contact with Tot’s
right; it was a hard bump which Blackmore stood well.
Higgins’ grit was as conspicuous as Blackmore’s clever-
ness, and though the former’s face seemed puffy, his
manner of weathering torrid periods proved him well-
prepared. Blackmore’s condition was good enough for
anything. Both hit wildly and frequently clinched un-
necessarily. The engagement, though determined as
could be, was, after the first round, very tame. In the
the tenth 3min. an extra effort by Higgins, now at tjie
wearied stage, saw his lame knee give badly and nearly
bring him to the floor; then he cried enough, and Black-
more got the verdict. Higgins wasn’t near the man that
fought Otto Cribb at the Pyrmont Hall a couple of years
ago, and, judging by appearances, he isn’t likely to ever
reach that condition again.
* * * *
Marvellous Griffo is in the game again !
Recently he fought Yankee crack lightweight, Joe
Bernstein, and, though Griffo lead easily, and shaped
exceptionally cleverly right through, the ’Murkan referee
gav.e the money to the ’Murkan fighter. Resurrective
power of Griffo is remarkable. Reported on the brink of
death several times, and twice lodged in Chicago’s
lunatic asylum as the consequence of continuous drinking,
and branded absolutely incurable each time, the news of
his latest fight is simply staggering.
» » » *
Success of N.S.W. State championships recently
has set Sydney amateur boxing aflame. Quarterly
gatherings of the non-professional section, under N.S.W.
Sports Club auspices, are mooted, and tutors of the game
report additional pupils. Sydney athletic people purpose
shortly moving in the matter of arranging yearly contests
for Australasian amateur boxing supremacy, and after
that probably international tussles will follow, as amateur
gloved-hand fighting gets a deal of encouragement in
England and America.
» * * •
The annual meeting of N.S.W. Rifle Associa-
tion again resulted in a large proportion of the prize-
money going to the small proportion of inter-State
shooters competing. Of course all the pick of these pot-
hunters come over to Sydney, but the marked inferiority
of the local article doesn’t much help the claim of the
N.S.W. Council to dominate the choice of the Bisley
teams.
• * * *
Re Austral swimmers in England. Fred. Lane,
at Salford, covered 120yds. in 1.14 4-5, which is 1 l-ssec.
outside Dick Cavill’s time, accomplished in Brisbane,
March, last year, and just equals Englishman Derby-
shire’s figures, set up two years ago at Manchester (Eng.).
Middle of Sept, saw Lane wipe out Derbyshire’s world’s
150yds. “ best ” (1.37 3-5), created at Burslem in 1901, re-
ducing the figures to 1.36 3-5. Starting from
did 100yds. handicap in 60 l-5-r-l-ssec. outside
world’s record. _
••• * . ,
JT&Srly 300 swimmers competed in Sydney Oil
events, Saturday afternoon, and more than that n “ ~
raced previous week. In East Sydney’s 90 yards
cap, Saturday last, Cecil Healy, coming , in
quisher of Cavill, Lane and eo., got through the tas
53 2-ssec., which equals Fred Lane’s best for that P
ticular distance, accomplished on the same course
season. Ex-champion Leo, who long suffered “°J“? 1H
years’ fighting in S’Africa, showed a glimpse
form hy swimming second from scratch in final of East
Suburbs’ 100 yards handicap.
* • * *
First bike carnival of the year, under N.S.W.
League’s auspices, began Saturday, at Sydney Cricket
Ground, and attracted about 11,000 spectators. Victorian
Don Walker was the crowd’s idol, as he did, by long
chalks, the best of all. Though only 7 reaching Sydney
day before, he got home with every 7 start, and once cut
the half-mile “best” to 56 4-5. Winning the Jacquehn,
Walker scored right on the post in the fourth heat after
sweeping round a big field and finishing with a mighty
burst. Nothing more brilliant has been seen this side of
the line. Twenty minutes later he saddled up for the
final, and gave starts to the 10 best of the 100 that origi-
nally handicapped. Entering the last lap, despite a
system-wrenching effort, Walker’s success looked abso-
lutely impossible, but he collared the leaders one. after
the other, and literally flew across the home line a
wheel in front of Pye, who struggled desperately. One
great roar told how the crowd appreciated this high-
strung effort. Later, same man came along and appro-
priated Oolebrook Plate (10m.), springing a staggering
surprise on his fellow Victorian, Morgan, by leaving him
two lengths behind at the finish. Morgan beat the crack
South Australian Wilksch a wheel to the good. Pace was
clocked 23.3 4-5. Walker’s finishing sprint fairly laid over
an.vthing any other Australian is capable of. It was the
highest art of cycling—not the least visible effort, nor the
merest wobble could be detected ; it was a sudden swell-
ing of speed worked up right on the moment and by some
unseen agency. Bathurst rider Mutton’s display of pacing
was a fine show, but it left him quite unfit for the final
call.
• * • •
N.S.W. League’s Cycling Carnival was con-
tinued Monday night, and 12,000 looked on. Track was
brilliantly illuminated. Don Walker sustained his sensa-
tional riding of Saturday afternoon, and first gathered in
initial heat of the Orient Plate (lm.) wonderfully easily 7.
“ The Tivoli ’’ (5 miles scratch race) brought 20 riders out,
and supplied high tension excitement the whole journey,,
mainly through competitors “ jumping ” to the lead for
lap prizes. Wulker always kept within striking distance,,
and held a clear run on the outside for fear of accident,
pedalling the while as if ’twas a pleasure jaunt. Things
were decidedly warm as the final opened. Entering upon
the last lap Walker darted out like lightning and a roar
came from the huge crowd. Morgan responded with such
a terrific burst that it seemed as if the latest Australian
bike marvel was going under this time, but, gathering
himself together, Walker streaked along in a manner that
was a revelation, and gradually wiping off the lead of the
others, pulled the thing out of the fire by a good half-
length. Then a great and sustained cheer came from
everywhere. Walker’s last quarter was done in 26 4-5 (a
new Australian record), and the 5 miles in 10.58. Nothing
better than this race has ever been seen on the ground.
If world’s champion Major Taylor and the fore-front
European rider, Jacquelin, are better sprinters than
Walker they are marvellous.
• * * *
Cyclist Don Walker has exceptional physique
and pedals superbly. A marvellous reserve of power
enables him to put up a paralysing finish no matter what
the distance traversed. No other has been able to
live alongside of that spurt when Walker strips
attuned to the hour ; even ’Murkan bikist Zimmerman
once went down before it. Walker’s wheeling is,
as was Ned llanlan’s rowing, notable for the fact
that while working at his very top he still seems
to make a pleasure ride of it. Plugger Bilmartin,
recently home from ’Murka and other parts, says
Walker’s finish is similar to that of the negro world’s
champion, Major Taylor and, after what occurred last
Saturday, it is opined by many that if the black bikist
comes Australiawards in January next, as anticipated,
he’ll go under. Feeling prevailed before Walker’s
latest display that Victorian George Morgan was the
Continent’s champion, but no one attempts to argue that
way now.


The ho* stifling summer days are rG *
Why not get a Refrigerator, and txse Ice?
Keeps all perishable Food in good
dition. Makes the distressing heat bear
able. TAe timely use of Ice often saves Life.
Our Ice is made from distilled water-
as hard and as clear as crystal. * * *
Sent in special transport boxes *o any-
railway town where not represented by
agencies. SEND FOR A PRICE LIST
7jhe
N.S.W. Fresh Food 0* Ice Co* Ltd,, Sydney
“What’s in a Name?”
Open
Saturday
Afternoons.
A good deal. A name on a note may make it worth 20s. in the fi, or just the
reverse The name on a bicycle shows the quality and speed value of the mount,
and carries the reputation of the firm with it.
“ MASSEY ” means Speed and Strength when it is found on the name-
nlate of a wheel. Here’s a curious corroboration : In Ottawa, last August, Major
Taylor could not get his wheel through the Customs in time for the race with
Kramer. He chose a Massey, and although the wheel was strange, he won easily.
At the next meeting Taylor discarded the Massey and lost the race.
What about the coming Racing Season ? Are you riding a Massey, or have you
no ambition to win ?
CANADA CYCLE & FIOTOR CO., Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET (next David Jones’)
Branches in Every State.
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
BUY A
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel . .
Hammerless Gun.
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept n stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company,
Head Office: 315 BROADWAsY, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
REMINGTON GUNS,
REMINGTON RIFLES,
£5 10s. to £l5
23/6 post free
McLEAN BROS. & RICO, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
Why not buy Jewellery at Wholesale Prices
Note Well
WE are selling all kinds of Jewellery, Solid Silver Novelties, Brushes, Combs,
Shaving Mugs, Pin Trays, Match Boxes, and hundreds of other varieties
of the Silversmiths’ art at absolutely Wholesale Rates.
Such a thing has never been done before
in Sydney.
A few prices Plated Belts for Ladies, guaranteed to keep their colour, 4s.
are herein Solid Silver Hair Brushes— Just Fancy!- only 12s. 6d.
quoted : Solid Silver Combs 4s.
We have over two thousand Ladies’and Gent’s Gem Rings to select from at a clear saving
of Twenty-Five per cent, to the retail purchaser.
Come and see for yourselves, at
THE ENGLISH HALL MARKED
ederal Jewellery Company, 23 #25 Strand Arcade ,Sydney
GOODS SENT POST FREE.
The RECORD
Excellence of Construction,
Optical Accuracy, AND
Perfection of Finish
is held by the latest shipment of . .
premopoco Cameras
IMPOKTED BY
THE BAKER and ROUSE PROPRIETARY, Ltd.
Sizes and Patterns to suit STUDIO, FIELD, TELEPHOTO,
and STEREOSCOPIC work, including the Wonderful “Snappa”
and “Pocket Poco,” which are beyond the possibilities of com-
parison as Hand and General Cameras for Tourists.
Can be used with either Plates or Films.
[V
Their Distinguishing Features are Simplicity, Strength, Portability, Elegance,
Inspection Cordially Invited by
The Baker & Rouse Proprietary, Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE; ADELAIDE, and BRISBANE,
i Even in his piety, the Chow is a practical
man. The consignment of old bones shipped home
to Flowery land in the s.s. Ventnor by the Sm
Fats of Maoriland was insured for £4650. The
Ventnor went down, and the Chinkies who
shipped the ashes of their fathers to the temples
of their gods will scoop about £9 for every bag of
bones on board, and there were over 500 an all.
Now, the average Chow in China isn’t worth any-
thing like £9 when alive.
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
The Vie. “strong ” Govt, hasn’t got quite
strength enough to shoulder the responsibility for
its own indiscriminate cutting and hewing.
Whenever Minister Bent is challenged with
treating the railway men harshly, either Shiels or
Irvine promptly gets up to proclaim that Thomas
is a softer-hearted personage than most people
think, and really isn’t responsible for the retrench-
ments at all. Next day the fat gentleman from
Brighton spoils things by telling the papers that
subordinates. No doubt he is assisted in t ..
cutting-down by the departmental bosses, but
that doesn’t relieve Thomas of responsibility.
The simple fact is that the Iceberg Govt, has art-
fully taken advantage of the fact that various
people in the Railway Dept, are willing to do
almost anything in the way of truckling, in order
to get a “leg in” for the vacant commissioner-
ship. Now they have committed themselves to
all sorts of iniquitous suggestions for depriving
the lower-paid employees of a decent wage, these
persons will, of course, be thrown over in favor of
an imported official from Europe or America.
The Veterinarian.
THE DIFFERENT PREPARATIONS OF
“SALVITIS”
HORSES, CATTLE, SHEEP,
PIGS, &0. ARE WORTH TRYING !
SALVITIS Index of Diseases, Free.
Remedies suggested in this Column promptly supplied
by Wholesale Agents for N.S.W.—
E. RICH & COMPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
“SALVITIS”
Ensures abundance
of EGGS and
Healthy Poultry.
USED BY LEADING BREEDERS—I/-, 5/-, 10/-, 20/-
SALVITJS ROUP PILLS, 1/6per box. .
Wholesale Agents for N.S.W,—
E. RICH & COMPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
INSTEAD OF BETTING on fast horses, bet
on the fast Indigo Blue Serges, at Charles Gilbert’s,
tbe leading tailor. Latest Summer Start-
ing Prices, viz., from 50s. Suit to measure,
carriage paid to any address in the Commonwealth.
A Soft thing. No Write for
Catalogue, Patterns and Self-measurement Forms,
Queen-street, Brisbane, and compare his Values with anv
in the Southern States. You will be backing a suie
thing.
JuESiSR&ip. »
nets
:
m
m
:<4
ml
Tl|W th P nerson who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
1 ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
Tint is “Ellis’ King- Street Coffee Palace,
situated at 50 KING «andnear Post
SOAPS dubbed Shaving
are rarely
Shaving SoapB.
In a Class by Themselves
The World’s Standard Shaving Soaps
Williams’ Barber’s Bar
and
Williams’ Shaving Stick
‘‘BARBER’S BAH”
While the natural Ally
Of the Deft Artist
And his Trusty Blade
Is also the Ideal Soap
For Home Use
Fits your Birthday Mug
Once tried, never changed
“Won’t Dry on the Face.”
Send a Penny Stamp and we will post you Williams'
Changing Face "Puzzle. Can you explain it?
• J. B. WILLIAMS CO., Glastonbury, Conn., U.S.A.;
and at 232 Clarence-st., Sydney.
SH»RPSNOOTTN6
For Sport and War.
By W. W. CREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett.;
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IF vou wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W. W. CREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept ora
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCK LAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative).
LADIES—^
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address—L.D.l., 300 Collins St. f Melbourne
o
5-*
:>Oj
?*:
v>:
sWi
ii'r.
• \
j.*
V
IS
“ttlhat a Difference!”
is the usual remark made by anyone who drives
for the first time in a vehicle fitted with our
resilient DUNLOP-KELLY
Solid
Rubber
llTOyrcs.
'M
£ here is none of the Rattling
and Vibration associated with
iron-shod vehicles. You simply glide
along.
THese .
Tyres will last for years on a
private conveyance. They
don’t chip, as do inferior
quality tyres. 1 hey are
wired on by a process that
absolutely prevents them
coming off or creeping.
Artistic
Catalogue and price list
on application. Section of Dunlop-Kelly Tyre
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of
Australasia, LtcL,
150 CLARENCE STREET* SYDNEY;
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane and Christchurch (N.Z.%


r
m
*/ \*
i
GUINEA GOLD J
O'
A*
£
£
m
K
9k
m
y
y ),
( -
•r
_2b
r
y .
The Great Gun of
Cigarette World.
The Cigarette with the “ narrow lap.”
There is less paper used in making Guinea Golds than other brands—compare for yourself and see. You get the full Tobacco Aroma with them; that’s why
they are so popular.
If you send us 100 cards as packed with G.G. we will send you (Free) a PRETTY PHOTO. ALBUM made especially to hold the Photos.
OGDEN’S, LIMITED, 45 York Street, Sydney.
A story of the Simultaneous Mission :
She was a canvasser, I could see that in a glance as I
opened the door.
“ I am travelling for the Simultaneous Mission,” she
began, “and am making a house-to-house canvass of
North Sydney.”
“ No, thank you,” I interrupted, preparing to close the
door on my unwelcome visitor.
“ But, excuse me, sir, I am not asking you for money
aid. We need your prayers, the prayers of each one of
your family.”
“Oh! certainly, certainly!” I said, re-opening the
door, “if my prayers are of any good to you, you are
welcome to them.”
“ Thank you, sir ; and might I ask your name and ad-
dress. You see,” she added, apologetically, “we have to
make a list of all the people, showing their denomina-
tions, whom we call on, so, if you don’t mind .”
I told her I was a Baptist who believed in the immer-
sion of infants with soap. My neighbor, next door, was
an erratic old fellow, whose language, at times, could be
venomous. I peeped through the drawing-room blinds
and saw her enter his garden. A few moments later, I
could hear his slipperless feet shuffling along his hall. I
mentally pictured to myself his face on opening the door.
“ No, thank you ; 1 make it a point not to give to
missions,” I heard him snap as soon as she mentioned the
purport of her visit.
“ But w'hat’s that—don’t want any money ! Well, what
do you want, anyway ? ”
“ It isn’t altogether mone.v we want,” replied the lady
missioner, “ but w 7 e ask you, whatever denomination .you
belong to, to help us with your prayers. lam calling on
everyone in this suburb, irrespective of sect, and asking
them to assist our mission by their united pra.yer.”
My neighbor was softened —I could tell that by his
voice : “ My' pray’ers, eh ! Well, you see, it’s like this,”
he added slowly, “ if any prayerful effort of mine will
help you along you’re welcome to it ; but I belong to a
somewhat unusual creed, almost unheard-of I might say
—in fact, I don’t suppose you’ve ever met one of tbe same
denomination before.”
“ Not at all, sir,” was the confident reply, as the lady
opened her note-book ; “ I have no doubt I have called
on many members of your church in my canvass for this
mission.” •
“ Well, if you will insist,” was the testy reply', “ I m a
theodolite.”
She solemnly wrote it down.
The Bulletin Story Book (price ss.
post-free from The Bulletin office) has been
everywhere hailed as by far the best book of
Australian stories and sketches yet published.
All the best-known Australian writers, for the
last ten years, are represented; and, both for
interest and literary value, the selection is un-
surpassed in this country.*
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If £o, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releasee
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CUR It! YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how' being cured.
Send atonce for
ALBERT S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/l§d. per b<*x. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents ; ELLIOTT BBOS., Sydney Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING.
MOIR'S
“MAYFAIR”
TABLE-JELLY
I
“Made inhalf-
a-minute by
the mere ad-
dition of boil-
ing water"
IN PINT
PACKETS.
CRYSTALS
Manufacturers—JOHN MOIR & SON, LTD,, LONDON, ABERDEEN and SEVILLE.
Head Office: 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, LONDON, E.C.
\
WEAK MEN CURED FREE.
We have the most powerful and practical cure ever
yet invented for the positive, certain, and radical cure
of Rheumatism, Lumbago, Weak Back or Kidneys,
Nervousness, Liver, Bladder, and Stomach troubles;
in fact, all chronic diseases. In 20 years we have cured
50,000 weak men and women. Our method cannot
possibly fail. No matter what other treatment or belt
you may have used, WE WILL CURE YOU, and we
are so positive of the tremendous therapeutic properties
of our latest improved Belt that we will send our Latest
Model Full Power No. 8 Belt, complete with all
attachments, to any person writing us, and you can
wear it for 90 days, and you only
PAY WHEN CURED.
This is the most generous offer ever yet made, in
order thoroughly to introduce throughout the Common-
wealth this splendid Belt. Our New Belt is positively
the only guaranteed Belt now in use which does not
require vinegar to generate its current. It is guaranteed
for 3 years, and you have the advice and care of a
physician till cured. One Belt can be worn by 8
persons. It generates a powerful vitalising current of
electricity, which you feel the instant applied. You
can wear it at night. It cure? while you sleep. If you are weak or ailing in any way ;if you
are not the man or woman nature intended you to be, then try our Belt. It will cure you. If
not, it won’t cost you a penny. We will take any other Belt in exchange at half-price. 'We
have just published a New and Beautifully Illustrated Medical Book, which is absolutely
FREE TO ALL
writing us. It will interest and help every adult reading it, so delay no longer, but write to-day
for our FREE BOOK and Powerful Belt. Write to-day.
THE DR. J. M. AUSTIN ELECTRIC CO., 39 Queen Street, Melbourne.
LEARN TO HYPNOTIZE!
Reader, do you desire to become a Hypnotist? Ho you want to know how to utilize the most
| powerful and mysterious force of nature? Ho you value control over others ? Do you value the
means of securing friendship, love and personal influence? Ho you value the power to conquer
I pain and banish sickness, to reform a misguided friend, to gain business success, to win wealth,
position and happiness? If you do, you must learn to Hypnotize. Why not? No other accom-
plishment is so easily acquired. It can be mastered in a few hours time, without leaving your
home. It costs nothing to find out all about it. The greatest Hypnotist of the century has just
I issued in book form a large and exhaustive TREATISE, OR INSTRUCTOR IN HYPNOTISM,
covering the whole ground of his Science, and he will send it while the edition lasts, absolutely
' FREE TO AEL who apply. The book is profusely illustrated, containing beautiful and artistic
i engravings, and shows as never was done before the principles, features, wonders
I and uses of this mysterious Science, all in a popular and pleasing style. It tells
I you just what Hypnotism is and bat you may accomplish with it. It shows you
how you may sway the minds of others, periorm astounding feats,
and produce amusement by the hour. New and instantaneous
methods. Success absolutely guaranteed. Remember this grand
work costs you nothing. It benefits everybody who reads it. It
places you in touch with the wonder-science of the age. Read
it anyhow. It is absolutely FREE. Apply at once to—
PROF. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company,
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, YVHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 Iss. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent, more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
OUK SPECIAL No. *
£8 18/6
Oelirered at any Wharf or
N.B.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-


THE GREAT
BENDIGO
EXHIBITION
ART UNION
To be drawn at Bendigo on
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24.
TOTAL PRIZES, £2400
£1 000 for is.
£1 000 for is.
PRIZES TO THE O AAAA
VALUE OF DISTRIBUTED.
Ist Prize, £lOOO 7th Prize, £25
2nd
3rd
4th
sth
6th
600
400
150
100
75
Bth
9th
10th
11th
12th
15
10
10
10
5
The committee undertakes to provide a purchaser for
the full value of the first prize, less 10 per cent. ; for £250
worth of the second prize, and for £l5O of the third prize
pictures. The winners of the fourth to the twelfth prizes
will have the option of selecting their own pictures.
LAST WEEKS OF SALE.
Secure your Tickets Early from all Stores, Newsagents,
and Stationers throughout Australia.
GEO. V. ALLEN,
General Secretary,
17 Garraway’s Chambers, Queen’s Walk,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE, opp. Town Hall.
SICK MADE WELL
Marvellous Elixir of Life Discovered
by Famous Doctor-Scientist That
Cures Every Known Ailment.
Wonderful Cures are Effected That
Seem Like Miracles Performed —
The Secret of Long Life of
Olden Times Revived.
The Remedy is Free to All Who Send
Name and Address.
After years of patient study, and delving into
the dusty records of the past, as well as following
molern experiments in the realms of medical
science, Dr. James W. Kidd, 486 First National
Bank - building, Fort Wayne, Ind., U. S. A.,
7, 1
WM's
DR. JAMES WILLIAM KIDD.
makes the startling announcement that he
has surely discovered the elixir of life. That
he is able with the aid of a mysterious com-
pound, known only to him self, produced as a
result of the years he has spent in searching
for this precious life-giving boon, to cure any
and every disease that is kn own to the human
body. There is no doubt of the doctor’s earnest-
ness in making his claim and the remark-
able cures that he is daily effecting seems to
bear him out very strongly. His theory which
he advances is one of reason and based on
sound experience in a medical practice of many
years. It costs nothing to try his remarkable
“Elixir of Life,’’ as he calls it, for he sends
it free, to anyone who is a sufferer, in sufficient
quantities to convince of its ability to cure, so
there is absolutely no risk to run. Some of
the cures cited are very remarkable, and but
for reliable witnesses would hardly be credited.
The lame have thrown away crutches and
walked about after two or three trials of the
remedy. The sick, given up by home doctors,
have been restored to their families and friends
in perfect health. Rheumatism, neuralgia,
stomach, heart, liver, kidney, blood and skin
diseases and bladder troubles disappear as
by m-igic. Headaches, backaches, nervousness,
fevers, consumption, couerhs, colds, asthma,
catarrh, bronchitis and all affections of tho
throat, lungs or any vital organs are easily
overcome in a space of time that is simply
marvellous.
Partial paralysis, locomotor ataxia, dropsy,
gout, scrofula and piles are quickly and per-
manently removed. It purifies the entire
system, blood and tissues, restores normal
nerve power, circulation and a state of perfect
health is produced at once. To the doctor all
systems are alike and equally affected by this
great “Elixir of Life.” Send for the remedy
to-day. It is free to every sufferer. State what
you want to be cured of and the sure remedy
for it will be sent you free by return mail.
Remember, a letter to America requires 2Jd.
postage. Write your name very plain, and be
sure to give your full address, so there can be
no mistake in delivery.
The Last of Six:
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By Ernest
Favenc. Paper covers, 141 pp.; price, 6d.;
postage, 2d.
The
OldsmobHe
5,000
IN USE
TODAY
LOWEST
PRIDE
OF ALL
A practical runabout for business or pleasure and sold for less money than
any automobile in the world. ... . .
It will run over any passable road; climbs steep hills; is almost noiseless;
attains a speed of 25 miles an hour; will run 30 miles on one gallon of
gasoline ; starts with ease from the seat and is always ready for instant use;
is accident proof; has no fire ; no boiler to burn out.
Construction is so simple it cannot get out of order and requires no
experience to run it. There’s nothing to watch but the road ahead.
Can be shipped to this country at small expense, quick delivery.
The Oldsmobile is sold in America or $650 (£130).
Write for free handsome illustrated book. We will quote you a price
delivered at your nearest port.
Agents Wanted in Unoccupied Foreign Territory.
Olds Motor Works,
Detroit 9 Michigan 9 U*S*Am
I
li
TheGANZ
Electric Apparatus
are built right.
Let us give you some
evidence of their
superiority.
Ganz Direct Current Air-Propeller. SOLE AGENTS s
The flustral Qtis Engineering fie., [td., South fflelb.
C. BRAN DAU ER & Co.’S (Ltd.)
CIRCULAR-POINTED PENS
Seven Prize Medals Awarded.
Neither scratch nor
spurt, the points
being rounded by a
new process.
Attention is also
drawn to their new
“CRADUATED
SERIES OF
iMbVm
PENS.” Each pattern being made in jour degrees of flexibility and Points.
Ask your Storekeeper for an Assorted Sample Box of either aeries.^^^^_^rics^lßMlNGHAM ! JßNGlJ^
II
H AufTHAWAV
mm
'if" Mr#
4*//V -
x/
I 'A !’/.
V'/fi &
Crozine Blacking
is the best dressing made for all bright finished leathers.
It is easily applied with a cloth, and produces a polish that is unequaled for brilliance
and permanence. Men, women, and children who use “ Crozine ” once want “ Crozine ”
always, as it is the most satisfactory waterproof dressing made for all varieties of shoes.
Sold almost everywhere. Made and guaranteed only by
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS, Boston, Mass., U. S. Al
The basis of which is “Montserrat ” Lime-Fruit Juice.
Far Superior to
all otHer Sauces.
AGENTS —Ell iott Bros. Ltd., J. Connell & Co., D. Mitchell & Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value-a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried in vest
po’ket and blown out to life-size (causes roars of
laughter), Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket, Book of
Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin and Card
Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character), The Mafeking Grub (of
nerve-strengthener), and, last of all, that side-splitting
Look and Laugh Glass, Instructions enclosed..
This splendid Packet posted to any address m Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
Box 3, P. 0., Haymarlcet. T
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
XNEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-street, SYDNEY.
IN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen m the
jewellery trade—viz., the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
9ct. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of 8.0.0. or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, 15ct
gold, fill ed, Bs. 6d. Illustrated catalogues sent free.
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address—
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA
f *UIHG
Ey £s
%
3 ? Vi
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head aches & all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTER’S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I have
used it successfully for years."—Prof. W. Wilson, M.D.
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORS DELL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, &c,
Of all Stores.
Free for Asking.
WRITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will he filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to Proprietor, Box 135, G.P.0., Adelaide, S.A.
Too Stout
I was for years; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending* stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Streetj Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
ABELIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ EUEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address;
German Electric Appliance Agency
03 Elizabeth Street. SYDNEY.
RUPTURE
CURED
without
operation or pain,
Throw away
your Truss.
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. xo. Address:
1 SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., ENG.,
Cob Russell a Collins Sts.,
r MELBOURNE.


Melbourne Tory daily newspapers are afc
last threatened with real opposition, by the Bal-
larat Courier. The Courier, which has kept
closer to an Australian and democratic ideal than
any other daily paper published in a continent
centre, proposes to start a Melbourne edition
shortly. Its proprietary have that rare and valu-
able journalistic insight which teaches that in the
long run it pays to be honest, and that there’s a
good living and clean self-respect to boot in run-
ning on straight independent lines. The Bulletin
wishes the new enterprise the best of luck.
“E.M.P.”: Re deafness. “Galvo.” 8.,
18/6/’O2, and “ A.C.H.,” B„ 9/8/’O2, appear to be
referring to partial deafness in both ears. But
many people are almost, or totally, deaf in one
ear, though they have normal hearing in the
other. Such persons seem to be able to converse
well enough, provided both parties look at each
other and too many proper names do not occur,
The deaf person can generally get the sense of
what is said if a few words can be caught here and
there; and people deaf in one ear, only can better
hear low speech than loud, though they are
unable to distinguish the direction from which
sounds reach them. I know a “one-eared” man
who unsuccessfully searched half-a-day for his
bullocks, though he could hear the bell all the
time!
Queensland’s Philp Government is decay-
ing. On the last vote of censure, arising out of
Minister Foxton’s haughty refusal to receive
Labor member McDonnell as part of a deputation
owing to differences between them in the House,
the Government was only saved by seven votes
(3l to 24), and this after Foxton had explained
things away and promised not to do it again.
And t’other day the Miners’ Accident Belief Bill
passed its second reading, despite the Ministry’s
opposition, by 29 to 11.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drhes away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Piles and their Cure. —The pamphlet by
Albert Sharp, “Piles and How to Cure Them,”
without operation, by the latest Caunalin. treat-
ment, sent free on application to 2 57 George-st.,
Sydney, or F. Buckhurst, Chemist, Melbourne,
or ;W. Wastell, Chemist, Adelaide.*
COLLECTIVE INVESTIGATION.—The ex-
perience of millions of people in all quarters of the
habitable globe during the last quarter of a
century has confirmed the value of Hunyadi Janos
as the best and safest natural aperient. Invalu-
able to diners-out.
There must have been fully a thousand
present at a Sydney Town Hall meeting on Mon-
day night to protest against the intention of the
Vic. State Government to set aside the jury’s
recommendation to mercy in the case of Selina
Sangal. The vestibule, use of which had been
granted by the. Mayor, was filled, and hundreds
stood outside in the corridors—men and women
being in about equal numbers. Among those who,
by their presence or by letters, expressed sympathy,
were ex-Mayor Graham, Mr. Stuart, M.L.C., Dr.
McCarthy, Messrs. Haynes, Holman and Griffith,
M’sP., Miss Rose Scott, and—happy sign—
Canon Boyce (C.E.), Dean Slattery (R.C.),
Dr. Roseby (Congregational), and Monsignor
O’Brien (R.C.). Resolutions were carried, with
but half-a-dozen dissentients, stating that the
hanging of Mrs. Sangal would wound the con-
science of and degrade the community; and urging
the N.S. W. Premier to represent to the Vic. Pre-
mier this view.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Loclcyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
amusements.
pITZGERALD BROS.’
HUGE CIRCUS & MENAGERIE,
IN THEIR OWN PERMANENT BUILDING,
JUST ACROSS PRINCE’S BRIDQE, ST. KILDA RD., MELB.
THERE IS NO BETTER CIRCUS BUILDING
TO-DAY IN THE WORLD.
The whole of the New Combination of European and
Australian Artists, and all the Animal Sensations.
SATURDAY, NOV. 1, Special Engagement at an
Enormous Salary of
PAGBL,
Uquestionably the strongest of ALL STRONG MEN, in
the Most Marvellous and Sensational Peats of Strength.
PRICES—4s., 35., 25., and One Shilling. Children half-
price to all parts (except the pit);
FRANK JONES, Representative.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage
And by
Special Appointment
Mrs* William Green and Miss Green
Professors of Ballroom Dane n r , Dportmeht, Grace ul
Carriage, Etiquette and Calesthenic Exercises.
The Latest Society Skirt Dancies. Glasses arranged for at
private residences. Colleges and Convents attended.
Classes in all suburbs. I’rospectus—
“ Ellerslie,” 100 Nicholson-st., Fitzroy.
1
i Bn
THIS um„ ion is a suitable
Gent.’s P* 'it, and repre-
sents one of A. Saunders’ Con-
venient and improfei Geht.’s
Pocket-Books. It contains alniost
everything that is useful for a
travelling gentleman. It is silver-
mounted,and hasa very handsome
appearance. It contains note-
book, calendar, stamp, reference
and purse, and is lined through-
out with silk, making a most
compact and serviceable article.
The price is very reasonable, 10/6 '
with extra Silver Shield, 12/6
posted to any part of the Com-
monwealth free of charge. On sale
at A. Saunders’ well-known jewel-
lery establishment, 809, 811, 813
815, 817 George-street, Sydney. ’
Or- Clarkson’s Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Clarkaon’3 Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
rene'wed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
To men who are tailing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Dosing Memory, Dvs-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’SRE-INVIGORATOR
V
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs i* trutv wonderful
- THEIR TOUGH IS MAGNETIC urgans is truly wonderful.
Price ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
CALL OR WRITE
OWL
RATE DKUG STORE,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
Amusements.
IYCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
**" Lessee Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
BLAND HOLT’S Sporting and Spectacular Melodrama,
A MILLION OF MONEY.
SATURDAY, NOY. 8, THE DERBY WINNER.
POPULAR PRICES—3s,, 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ SOLE LESSEE .. .. Mr. JOHN F. SHERIDAN
Manager .. Mr. Frank Weathersby.
3rd WEEK 3rd
1 tsr COMIC OPERA SEASON.
The Bright Operatic Burlesque,
LITTLE
CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS
JOHN F. SHERIDAN
as
O’HOOLIGAN, THE DETECTIVE.
Assuming 12 Distinct Disguises, including his inimitable
burlesque of the Mighty Mightiest SAND-HOW.
SPECIAL MATINEE:
MONDAY NEXT, NOV. 10, KING’S BIRTHDAY.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES—3s., 25., Is. 6d„ & Is.
DALACE THEATRE, 3YDNEY.
■ Lessees .. .. Henry Lee and J. G. Rial.
SUB-LESSEE and MANAGER, WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45 Sharp,
• Edmond Rostand’s Fascinating Poetical Romance,
CYRANO DC BERGERAC.
HBKTRY LEE
as
CYRANO,
Assisted by Miss EUGENIE DUCGAN and a complete
Dramatic Company.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is. Plan at Elvy’s Music
Warehouse.
ALEC. MIDDLETON, General Manager.
MICHAEL JOSEPH, Treasurer.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
■ Lessee and Manager Mr. J. 0, Williamson.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2,
The Latest and Greatest. Dramatic Novelty,
SHERLOCK HOLMES.
Mr. CUYLER HASTINGS as SHERLOCK HOLMES,
Supported by Mr. Williamson’s
SPECIALLY ORGANISED DRAMATIC COMPANY.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Prices as Usual.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
Re-appearance of THE MIGHTY SAN DOW, for
a season of FIVE PERFORMANCES, starting at the
MATINEE, SATURDAY, NOV 8, and CONCLUDING
TUESDAY, NOV. 11.
J. W. WINTON, the Popular Entertainer.
THE GREAT HARBECKS, THE NAWNS, WILTON
BROS., NEVA CARR-GLYNN, ELSIE M‘LACHLAN
CLARENCE SISTERS, MONTROSE TROUPE, FLORRIE
GALLIMORE, ERNEST SULLIVAN, EILEEN BOYD.
RICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.m.
PAUL CINQUEVALLI.
Mr. & Mrs. SIDNEY DREW.
Willie SCHENCK BROTHERS Charlie
SAM HOLDSWORTH. FRED. POPLAR. KITTY WAGER.
Prices—3s., 25., Is, 'ig& Plan at Allan’s.
DRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. Geo. Musgrove’s New English Comedy Company.
FIRST PRODUCTION in Melbourne of the
Fascinating, Fantastical drama,
The Sorrows of Satan.
founded on G. A. Sala’s story of “Margaret Foster,” and
Marie Corelli’s Famous Novel, The “ Sorrows of Satan.”
USUAL PRICES. Box Plan at Allan’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Lessee.. .. .. Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hendy. Treas., Julius Grant.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S Famous Dramatic Organisation
in the Successful Adelphi Drama,
THE FAVORITE.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan's.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C.' Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
EVERY EVENING. 4th WEEK of
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE TOREADOR,
The Most Sumptuously Beautiful Production yet seen at
this Theatre, and a Superb Attraction for the
Racing Carnival.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan's.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. William F. Hawtrey.
Business Manager .. Leonard Davis.
LAST NIGHTS of the THE HAWTREY COMEDY CO.
First Production in Melbourne of the Great London
Success, the Uproariously Funny Farcical Comedy,
IN THE SOUP.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. Matinee every Wednesday.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’ and The Grand.
R. BENTLEY" YOUNG, Representative.
make your own derated waters.
Soda Water costs
One Penny per Dozen.
Lemonade, Ginger Ale, etc.,
costs under 4d. per Dozen.
The “AUSTRAL” Machine
is used by the H.M.S. Royal Arthur, etc.,
etc., of the Australian Squadron ; also in use
all leading Hotels and Railway Refreshment
Rooms throughout the Commonwealth.
Vc
u\v
CAUTlON. —'Attempts are being made to
palm off spurious and clumsy imitations of our
AUSTRAL Machines. We have always been,
and still are, the SOLE PROPRIETORS and
ONLY MANUFACTURERS of these justly
renowned Machines.
Note the Address—
E€KERSLEY#SONS,
214-216 Queen St.,
. Melbourne,
At Poverty Point.
George Kignold’s big brother William, now totally
blind, is to have his long-talked-of benefit in the form of
a straight-out subscription from managers, actors, and
attaches of the “profession.” Irving, the chairman of
the fund, headed the list with a cheque for 20gs., and, if
any Australian friends of the incapacitated actor would
like to assist, a cheque addressed to Henry Irving,
London, will reach its destination in due course. “ Bill”
Rignold is mostly remembered in Australia for his
Falstaff, but the best thing he did was a strong, full-
blooded performance of a sporting Yorkshireman, in a
play called “Nowadays.” The play was stagev and un-
convincing, because Wilson Barrett wrote it, or helped
to write it. Nevertheless, one remembers the figure of
George Rignold’s brother in the principal character. A
fine, big, honest actor was William in the year 1890.
“T.S.” : Met a Sydney clerk, t’other day, who had a
firm conviction that Madame Melba was playing in the
“Sherlock Holmes” co., at Sydney Royal. Explained
that she was at the Tivoli, along with Sandow, and he
left quite content.
Overheard Manager Anderson complaining about the
sniping of “ Cyrano de Bergerac ” to his bill-poster (bill,
ing is William’s hobby). “ Well, I know it don’t look
0.K., replied the artist of brush and bucket, “ but what
Y 0 w *th a name like that ‘ Citrano de Bergamot ’ ?
Yah 1 Give me ‘ The 10.30 Down Express,’ or ‘ The Worst
Woman in London.’ You can make some display with
that.” ’
“ Player ” : “ An Australian in Johannesburg ” asks (B.
25/WO2) “ Who is Hall, of Hall’s Juveniles?” and adds
that if he had “felt that Hall’s Juveniles were genuine
natives, etc.” Well, they mostly are. The “lead,"
Connie Milne, was daughter of the well-known Mayor
Milne, mechanist of Melbourne T.R. And “Hall” is
Harry Hall, a son of J. 0. L. Hall, the best “Hamlet"
gravedigger the Australian stage has seen. Harry Hall was
born in Tasmania, and left Australia with Willards’ Opera
Co. about ’92. Harold Carr, of the Bland Holt Co., and
young Hall were associated in variety business in Maori-
land.
“X.” : Touching the ruiflored imminence of a re-coalf-
tion between Williamson and Musgrove, a Sydney paper
says : —“Experience is unfortunately proving that there
is only room for a limited number of managers in Aus-
tralia, and this being so, is it certain that if there is not
an alliance between Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove,
they would individually continue in management ? Or,
if they did, would they not be oblige l to reduce the
standard of their entertainments?” These apologetio
queries are saddening. After 20 years’ experience of
theatrical shows in Australia, I am brought to the con-
clusion that this is a non-progressive district. I look
back on the time when the average scale of theatrical
prices was higher than it is at present ; when Brough
and Boucicauit ran a really excellent double company of
comedians in permanent opposition to the business of
Williamson,-Garner and Musgrove (whose profits went as
high as £30,000 a year) ; when George Rignold produced
high-class dramas at his own theatre, whilst Bland Holt
was an all-the-year-round institution, the same as now,
but with a more expensive co., and -old Martin
Simon sen was able to keep a strong Italian opera co. going
for 12 months at a stretch. Twenty, or, say, 15 years
ago, the Australian press talked of the growing import-
ance of the local theatrical world. Now it says there
isn t room in Australia for two “ five-shilling ” managers.
What’s the matter with this country, anyhow ?
•“ H.M.M.” ; At- Townsville Theatre Royal, the other
day, good old Dampier, with a sheaf of well-tried pieces,
began a season to fair business. “Bush-King,” “East
Lynne,” “ Monte Cristo,” “ Robberv Under Arms,” &c.,
were listed. Asked how he liked the theatre Alfred said,
“ Scorpions bad, and heat in'ernal.” “ Scorpions ?” I
ejaculated. “Yes; Rolfe killed three on the
during ‘ Monte Cristo.’” Seems, also, that Johnson
Weir,’ the villain, squashed a scorpion when in a heated
stage altercation with Rolfe, and, on the whole, the
business of dodging these venomous little assailants
added a new excitement to melodrama and made the
mummers play smartly up to each other. Speaking of
the Royal’s new pictorial drop-scene (the old one was an
advertising horror), Dampier relates that at Warragul
(Vic.), when the curtain would fall upon a harrowingly
pathetic scene, the most conspicuous “ad.” right across
the front was “So-and-So, undertakers and embalmers.
Orders promptly and neatly executed.”
During the hearing of a Bendigo claim against the
Woods-Williamson dramatic co. (needless to say, the
hard, inflexible orchestra—“ how like a band ! ’’—sued for
wages due), one of the plaintiffs said that a certain party
had given every indication of a pecuniary interest in the
tour. Being asked to explain his reason for this allega-
tion, the witness answered, “He would, for instance,
stand at the theatre door with a big cigar in his mouth."
(Laughter.)
Remarked of a certain Melbourne theatre that lots of
strangers seem to have the run of the house “ behind the
scenes,” both at rehearsals and during the performance,
whenever the boss is absent in Sydney or elsewhere. It
should be the first business of a stage-manager to keep
his department free from people of the sort who glory
in their acquaintance with mummers. A nominal
rule of the theatre is “ No followers allowed,” but the in-
trusive nuisances get there all the same, and some of the
lady members of the co. proclaim this fact by their
glances towards the wings and their frequent smiles at
their flattered johnnies in the front stalls, who,, for their
part, are making it evident that they can go “behind”
if they wish. Where the management is palpably lax a
theatre soon loses caste with the general public.
Hackensc.hmidt, the Russian giant (writes The Bul-
letin’s London correspondent), who has just successfully
wrestled Tom Cannon, is a tremendous, business-like
Hercules. In his exhibitions in London he always got
behind his opponent and grasped him under the arms and
across the chest. Then he swung him in half-a-dozen
circles in the air with terrible strength and “downed”
him, dizzy and dazed. Young, of great muscular de-
velopment and strength, his equal is not in England- or
Australia, remembering Sandow—to-day. With Cannon,
after 23 minutes, he got a hammerlock on that wrenched
C.’s arm so severely he couldn’t come on for the other
rounds.
| A blow was struck at trades-unionism by
[ the Irvine Government in Victoria, last week.
Labor member Billson, on the Public Servants
Retrenchment Bill, asked that the Government
should not reduce the wages of unionists in the
service below the minimum rates fixed by their
various unions. Unless this were done, he pointed
out, the men would either have to give up their
employment under Govt, or give up their accrued
benefits and rights under the rules of their unions,
It meant, he said, that only blacklegs could join
the Govt, service. This gladdened the heart of
the Tory Government and its big Tory majority,
and they jumped at the opportunity of giving
unionism a severe knock. All the reason and
debating power were on the side of unionism, but
Billson’s proposition was contemptuously thrown
out by 55 to 2(5. Another lesson to Democrats
on the evils of putting Tories into power under
any pretext whatever.
Patents for Inventions. —Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.*
A. condensed biography of the silver-haired
spiritual adviser who was sent up for seven years’
at Melbourne last week :
The remarkable history of Arthur Bentley Worthington,
lawyer, banker, politician, estate agent, spiritualist,
mining speculator, minister of the gospel, forger, em-
bezzler, polygamist and co.v.ird—as far as is known.
Samuel Oakley Crawford, alias Sam. Bouvier Walton,
alias Engene Bouvier, al ls Eugene Bonner, alias E. R.
Bannerton, alias Eugene li nuateau, alias Horace Oakley
Wood, alias Arthur Wood, alias W. U. Wood, alias
Arlington Buckingham Wadsworth, alias A. B. Worth-
ington, with various combinations of the above, was born
at Sangerties, N.Y., in 1847, did a little fighting for the
North in ’64, then took up lecturing and the law. In ’67
he was “ converted,” and since then seems to have lived
on the religious racket and on exploiting susceptible
women with property. In May ’6B he married (No. I)
Josephine Moore at a Baptist Church in New York.
Deserted her and a nine-months-old daughter in ’69 and
went to Albany (N.Y.); where he got three years for
swindling a new-chum Dutchman. In ’74 he married
(No. 2) Gay Finefleld, at Chicago; deserted her
promptly, and in Sept ’74 got married once more
(No. 3) to the daughter of an Ohio Judge, whose
name he forged to a note for 3 (00 dols., after
which he skipped to Kan-as. A reward offered for his
capture persuaded him to try a fresh pasture, so Peoria,
Illinois, next sheltered him. There the Y.M.O.A. took
him up, hut wife No. 2 happened along, and he made
tracks to ’Frisco, where he landed in ’75. Here he was
just about to be hitched to a susceptible widow—of whom
he had borrowed £4QO--when a telegram from the de-
serted No. 2 stopped proceedings at the cnurch door.
Next he favored Salt Lake City with his presen :e. He
would have been all right there in the matter of wives,
but apparently he hadn’t the means to keep them. Any-
how, he left hastily for Texas in ’76 with the best part of
£lOOO, lent by confiding Brighamites. In ’7B he turned
up once more in Chicago with Helen Blythe’s <•.,». of
travelling actors. Here he led another blushing brid • to
the altar (No. 4), in the person of Mbs Huntoon. Then
he seems to have dropped the stag» and turned to the
law again till *B2, when, being charged with embezzle-
ment and forgery, he skipped once more, leaving his
partner to pay the bail-bonds, and his wife No. 4
to keep herself and her baby girl. During ’B2 and
most of ’B3 Worthington appears to have meandered
round the North-west, paying his way by valu less cheques
and other shiftless means. In ’Bi he struct Boston
(Mass.), where a lawyer took him into pnrtner.slpp,. and a
wealthy .widow looked fondly on him. She subsequently
became No. 5, and enjoyed married bliss for three years
or so, when the usual difficulty about the disappearance
of trust funds led to the customary hasty, skedaddle.
There is a gap here of some years, but in 90 he reached
Christchurch (M.L.) with an American Christian Scientist
lady, who passed as his wife. Thre ■ years later he turned
her adrift, and married (No. 6) a 0 u-isteh irch girl, who
is seemingly the lady who to-d iy is Mrs. W., and
whom he was prepared to abandon for the embraces—and
the cash—of Madame de la Juveny. The year 1896 saw
him in Hobart, ’99 in Melbourne, and ’OO in Sydney ; also
1902 sees him in gaol. It is a sweet record of susceptible
women and calm, unblushing impudence, backed by a
good presence, a suave manner, and a complete lack of
conscience—and the end thereof is skilly. •
Another N.S.W. civil service grizzle :
The late occupant of the office of executive member to
the Tender Board was paid £6OO a year. The P.S. Board
has appointed to the vacancy an officer who was drawing
£350 a year, appointing him over the heads of the whole
Chief Secretary’s Department, and fixing his salary at
£5OO. After some chaffering in the Assembly, Premier
See further cut him down to £4OO. To the office at £350,
vacated by this transfer, the P.S. Board has appointed a
man, and cut him down to £250. What the Public Ser-
vice Association has to say to this, is what the
public service wants to hear. For why stop? When
these two die, or draw the big ticket in Tatt.’s
sweep, why won’t their successors be cut down
to, say, £350, and to £2OO ; and so on ? This
steady lopping off of salaries affixed to definite posi-
tions must ruin the esprit de corps of the service. If
B. was worth £350 as secretary to the Premier, why is
not 11. ? How can H. do for £250 what it was worth while
to pay B. £350 for? And why did they not look round
for some one cheaper? I, who write, would do the job
for £240. Probably a man at £235 could be found. I
notice the Railway Commissioners were re-appointed at
their old screws, and when the angels take Joe Barling
home, the new P.S. Commissioner will get his little £lOOO
intact. There won’t be any £9OO a year about him.


RESTORING
RVE
Following
DURING the reign of the good Queen Victoria, GREAT STRIDES
. riou9ly ta
VOUSNESS, GENERAL DEBILITY, LIVER COMPLAINT, KIDNEY DISORDERS, . _ where the blood becomes impoverished and the nervous system seriously im
The influence upon nutrition ot the Electro-Medical Treatment is the by disease. Altered disordered fonctuom mu.
paired, with extensive tissue destrnotion. it is self-evident that the elements ““ of the elements of muscle, blood, and nerve Uenth “thinTyet powerful,
tes -* “ d 10 ■— healthy and " eugth “’ 8
general good health is assured which all men desire to possess and all men cove .
ONE FALSE STEP
ONE FALSE STEP may mean a LIFE LOST, and
where a person suffers from a protracted Nerve-
Disorder or persistent Stomach or Kidney trouble,
it is best to act at once. Thousands of persons in
Australia to-day are languishing in pain, ignorant of the
fact that the SPECIALISTS of the
Freeman*|l)allace Institute
can, by their new methods of Medicine and Electricity,
relieve many of those diseases classed as “ INCURABLE ’
by the medical profession. In some instances only a few
weeks’ treatment is sufficient to ensure magical results, and
eradicate a complaint which had been racking the system
and draining the vitality for years.
Life cannot be Purchased,
but HEALTH CAN BE PRESERVED. THE WISE
MAN neglects no opportunity to retain the Health which
he knows is to him Success and Happiness, and the Wise
Physician evades no chance to eradicate disease, when a
patient’s symptoms warn him of danger. Hesitation with
danger ahead is fatal. POVERTY is the
Train-Bearer of Disease
and PROSPERITY and PLENTY are the SERVANTS of
HEALTH. All Happiness waits upon the Healthy Man ;
the difficulties that beset life but invite him to victory. The
SPECIALISTS of the FREEMAN AND WALLACE
INSTITUTE make such men. PATIENTS FROM ALL
Parts of Australasia
consult them, and return again to the scenes of their
existence, HAPPY IN STRENGTH, PHYSICAL EX-
CELLENCE, AND CONSCIOUS POWER. From all
centres in Australia they daily receive grateful testimony
that they have made thousands of lives worth the living,
and have lightened the cares and brightened the homes of
countless afflicted ones.
Mr. Joseph Megson.
EFFECTIVE TREATMENT
T
HE SPECIALISTS OF THE INSTITUTE guaran-
tee to cure any person who, through disordered
functional nerve-force or muscular power, finds that
Life has lost much of the joy
that waits upon the strong, healthy and vigorous man.
This nerve-force can be regained, and perfect muscular
power restored to any system by adapting the SPEOiA-
ttqts’ new scientific MEDICAL METHODS
OF S RESTORING VITALITY TO THE ENFEEBLED
FRAME. To secure this strength
Tkt) Electric *' INVKSORHTOR ”
must be worn, which infuses into the jaded frame a
new current of magnetic electricity, the absence of which
proves the source of many grave nervous disorders Men
who have not been successful in Life, who continually were
compelled to battle against menacing adversities have been
cured. Whether their ill-health was due to disorders of
the KIDNEYS, LIVER, BLADDER,
IMPERFECT NERVE FORCE,
INSOMNIA, DYSPEPSIA, MENTAL IMPAIRMENT
STOMACHIC DISORDERS, or functional derangement
of vital organs, they became strong and healthy nien through
taking medical treatment and wearing superior EL EE L KIE
„ They are now happy as men can
be in the
“ INVIGORATORS.
Perfection of a Physical Plenitude,
and prove that men were not “made to mourn,” but to
enjoy Life to its fullest and completest measure.
The SPECIALISTS are in possession of testimonies
from some of the greatest professionals known in the world
of art and sport, who thank them in their letters for the
great good done them that
Only a Restored IVlan
CAN APPRECIATE. The “ INVIGORATORS,” mo-
delled upon the plans of the greatest electricians of the age,
are within the reach of ali. Those sold at £1 AKL
SPECIALLY RECOMMENDED ; those purchased at
contain £8 worth of 18-ct. gold. I here is no
case of weakness in men which they will not palliate and
cure.
the Champion Cyclist of New South Wales, is well known to everyone in the States of Australia,
t h eso* I ’u'n vi go r ato rs, > ’ and ho says of this wonderful ELECTRO-MEDICAL treatment:
He wore one of
Mr. JOSEPH MEGSON, „ „ , hreal< mnra
“ l suffered from Nervousness for a long time. I was on the point of a constitutional Mhvmr
than once. The merits of your ‘ Invigorator’ used by me are beyond question. J® ur "
restored me to perfect health.’’ ± fot We _ hundteds 3UOh leB L» !es «
(Mr. Megson can be interviewed upon this wonderful cure. What has b^g Restore 3 to Health and Happiness.) ———===
The Specialists’ Fees are : Advice and Medicine,
The Physician-in-Chief is the Only Registered Medical Practitioner Advertising Belts in Australia.
Free Advices and Surgical Examinations.
ALL Letters addressed to the SPECIALISTS of the INSTITUTE i«Brf
WHENEVER, THE MAIL GOES, correspondence is addressed. No Letter is neglected,
and replies to questions are POSTED BY RETURN MAIL to any
national centre. ALL MEDICINES forwarded from the INSTITUTE to patients resid
in- beyond N S Wales ARE PACKED SECURELY, so that no risks are incurred from breakage.
The system is so perfect that no complaints are ever heard of non-transmission. Advice is given
Free i “i! mm or charge if
anyone is in a critical condition from illness and would like a professional opinion, qualified by-
experience and a life-service in the spheres. of disease.that readily and freely.
Nerve and BLOOD DISEASES are the SPECIALITIES of the INSTITUIE.
MS
Sir Dominic J. Corrigan
9&ata
!6
r->. ’j M : :teftifx v >Hfi I SrirEr&ft / a
■!« * person
m re
to ns
: ■ DoMIHjfCJ. CORRiGA
' ■ > pHYsjtJAtt >o Tut Oucek:
• - * - ’
s!i
smb
Credentials * na Qualifications.
THE PHYSICIAN-IN-CHIEF of the
INSTITUTE’S CONSULTING STAFF
of SPECIALISTS is a man of singular
professional attainment. His qualifications
are unequalled. As will be here seen he holds a
valuable testimony of merit from Sir Dorhinic
Corrigan, Bart, late Physician to the Queen, with
whom he was at one time associated. He also
holds NINE DIPLOMAS and CERTIFICATES
of QUALIFICATION and REGISTRATION
by the MEDICAL BOARDS OF NEW SOUTH
WALES, VICTORIA, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
ENGLAND and AMERICA, which are daily
open for public inspection. Late honorary
physician to the Homoeopathic Hospital, Mel-
bourne, and British Imperial Army Medical Staff.
A Useful Volume.
♦
SPECIALISTS publish every year a revised edition of their medical work,
' 1 ’ “CLINICAL EXPERIENCES.” These valuable works are a feature of an
I Institute upon which £lOO,OOO has been expended since its introduction to the
Australian Medical World. Each year sees some departure m the publication
of useful medical volumes, for which the public demand is continuous and imperative
This Medical Book, “CLINICAL EXPERIENCES ” is one of the finest works
published in Australia or recognised in Medical History. It is elegantly bound, artistic-
ally printed, beautifully illustrated, graphically written, and affords the keenest mte-
terest to the student of physiology. Anyone who cares to comprehend the
complex machinery of the human system should purchase one of these magnificent
works and read the 30 pages upon Anatomy, with 20 illustrations showing the osseous,
muscular, and nervous mechanism of the body. Also,
articles upon the Care of the Sick, Burns and Scalds,
Restoring Apparently Drowned, Dropsy, Asthma, to-
gether with a Vocabulary of 1000 medical terms, and a
list of 50 valuable prescriptions, which are invaluable
in every home.
It comprises 550 PAGES of exhaustive analysis
upon general diseases, with 150 MEDIC XL i ILLUS-
TRATIONS, 35 CHAPTERS OF INSTRUCTIVE
MATTER, and graphically - written articles upon
SNAKE BITE, INSOMNIA, INVALIDS and
TREATMENT, ALCOHOLISM and EFFECTS,
PLAGUE, FEVERS, ELECTRICITY, FRAC-
TURES, GUNSHOT WOUNDS, SUNSTROKE,
CANCER, CONSUMPTION, etc., make it a valu-
able friend to all households in the country, where
medical men are few.
The price of this Magnificent Work is, post-free
to any Australasian address, ONE SHILLING
ONLY, IN STAMPS.
CCS
Gene
Oise
CCMAN&
•o Medical*
FREEMAN * WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAI ——
and SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S.,
and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
Medicines pecked Free from observation and sent to * l ' P ° * Z'.
E. L.M., Physlcian-in-Chief. Letters treated with Professional Secrecy and promptly replied


Winter Colds
Doctor advised Scott’s Emulsion
rather than any other form of the
oil
We are living now in the trying days of
the year when a winter cold is almost every-
body’s portion. We do not treat winter
colds with sufficient care. If we thought
of them seriously we would get the remedy
for them, as this doctor advised.
“ 67, Cleveland St., Upperthorpe,
“ Sheffield, England,
“ February 15th, 1901.
“ Dear Sirs, —For some years past I have
been very susceptible to colds and bronchitis,
and this winter my doctor advised me to
take cod-liver oil, and suggested Scott’s
Emulsion in preference to any other form
of the oil. I took your preparation and
found great relief from its use in a very
short- time. My cough quickly responded
to the treatment, my chest was greatly
strengthened and my general health im-
proved considerably. I continued the treat-
ment for a time and am gratified to say as a
result my health is now all that I could
HERBERT TURNER.
(From a photograph.)
wish for and I have not had a cold since
taking Scott’s Emulsion. I think this is
wonderful, as I am a traveller and con-
sequently am exposed to all conditions of
weather. I consider Scott’s Emulsion a
very valuable and invigorating remedy and
worth its weight in gold to anyone suffering
from affections of the chest.—Yours truly,
“ (Signed) Herbert Turner.”
Mr. Turner emphasises two points for
those who fear wintry weather—two sign-
boards that point the direct road to a cure
of winter colds. First, Mr. Turner says :
“ I have not had a cold since taking Scott's
Emulsion ; ” the medicine not only cured
his cold but so strengthened his chest and
improved his general health as to prevent
any return of the trouble. This is what
Scott’s Emulsion always does—cures the
weakness and then keeps the health up to
normal standard.
The second point he quotes from his
doctor: “ Take cod-liver oil, Scott's Emulsion
in preference to any other form of the oil."
Mr. Turner’s doctor is one of hundreds of
physicians who have said the same thing.
For they know the purity of the oil we use
and how scientifically it is blended with the
reinforcing elements of hypophosphi es of
lime and soda I These last two are bone
and tissue builders, the oil purifies the blood
and gives it renewed vitality. That is why
Scott’s Emulsion is everywhere preferred
by physicians to “ any other form of the oil.”
Winter colds yield promptly to Scott’s
Emulsion. With it in the home no one
need fear the worst of winter weather; it
reinforces the human system so surely that
all colds, coughs, chest and throat ailments
quickly disappear. Scott’s Emulsion never
disappoints. In this is the difference
between Scott’s Emulsion and imitations
and substitutes.
On the wrapper of each bottle of Scott’s
Emulsion is a picture of a man with a big
codfish. See that the picture is there when
you buy.
You can obtain a sample of Scott’s Emulsion
by sending fourpence to Scott & Bowne, Ltd.
483 Kent-street, Sydney, and mentioning this
paper. All chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
VEGETABLES
Charcoal
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
Speedily cures Acidity, Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, &c. It
destroys all disease germs, and,absorbing all impuri-
ties in the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards off all attacks of Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BRACG’S PORE CHAReOAL POWDER in
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
(pleasant to take). Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
II ivi g had complaints of the injury done by other
preparations,-lease see that each Bottle or Tin bears
t»e Trade Mark in monogram, ’on the wrapper.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
BAD COMPLEXIONS
Dry Thin and Falling HaiPand Red
Rough Hands Prevented by
CUTICURA SOAP
MILLIONS use Cuticura Soap, assisted by Cuticura Ointment,
for preserving, purifying, and beautifying the skin, for cleans-
ing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the stopping
of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red,
rough, and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and chafings, in the
form of baths for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free
or offensive perspiration, in the form of washes, for ulcerative weak-
nesses, and for many sanative, antiseptic, cleansing purposes which
readily suggest themselves to women, especially mothers, and for all
the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery. Cuticura Soap com-
bines delicate emollient properties derived from Cuticura Ointment,
the great skin cure, with the purest of cleansing ingredients and
the most refreshing of flower odours. No other medicated soap is to
be compared with it for preserving, purifying, and beautifying the
skin, scalp, hair, and hands. No other foreign or domestic toilet soap,
however expensive, is to be compared with it for all the purposes of
the toilet, bath, and nursery. Thus it combines in One Soap at One
Price, the best skin and complexion soap, and the best toilet and
baby soap in the world.
COMPLETE EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL TREATMENT FOR EVERY HUMOUR,
Consisting of Cuticura Soap, to cleanse the skin of crusts and scales, and soften the
thickened cuticle: Cuticura Ointment, to Instantly allay Itching, inflammation, and
Irritation, and soothe and heal; and Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A Single Set is often sufficient to cure torturing, disfiguring humours, eczemas,
rashes, and irritations, with loss of hair, when all else fails. Sold throughout the world.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British Depot: 27-28, Charterhouse Sq.,
London. French Depot: 5 Rue de ia Paix, Paris. Potter Drug and Chem Corp.,
Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
odourless, economical substitute for the celc-
brated liquid Cuticura Resolvent, as well as lor all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 doses. Coticura Pills are
alterative, antiseptic, tonic, and digestive, and beyond question the purest, sweetest,
most successful and economical blood and skin purifiers, humour cures, and tome-
digestives, yet compounded.
INDIGESTION
means torturing pain, incessant
1 weariness, wretched days and
wakeful nights. It means being
“done up,” “played out,” “bowled
over,” “good-for-nothing” all the day
and every day. It means starved blood,
starved muscles, a starved body and a
starved brain ; in short, it means shattered health
and a broken constitution unless you root it out with-
out delay. Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup is the national
remedy for indigestion in sixteen countries. Its unrivalled
reputation is backed by thirty-three years’ unbroken success
in curing Indigestion. It has brought hope and health to
countless thousands of half-dead dyspeptics in every
clime. It cured Mr. C. A. Bonnett. It will cure you.
Eead his testimony: “ After suffering continuously
from acute indigestion and constipation for two years
my recovery was completely effected in six weeks by Mother Seigel’s
Syrup. It rapidly broke up the constipation, restored my appetite°and
built up my strength. An occasional dose now keeps me in good order.
58, Currie Street, Adelaide— March 24, 1902.” Substitutes are worth-
less and dangerous.
-MOTHER
■CEL’S
CURATIVE
There’s SECURITY In
ARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
- Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
They TOUGH the
Be
LIVER
Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
Carter's
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Morant
His ’Ventures,
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
Free.
Y By FRANK RENAR. \[
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney.
Love’s Gift of Pardon.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Her eyes hold some shadow of trouble or annoy-
ance. A trim maid passes, smiling at the baby,
gazing after her from over its mother’s shoulder.
“Do you know, Phil, I have taken such a dis-
like to that girl! ”
The man turns to his wife’s eyes that have been,
like those of his little girl, intent upon the
retreating maid. He looks strange. The woman’s
“Phil,” and her questioning gaze, make him sud-
denly understand that he is before a terrible
tribunal of justice and honor—to plead guilty or
not guilty. The wife knows nothing, has no sus-
picion ; it is only a vague sense of evil, and that
look in her husband’s eyes as they lifted them-
selves to hers. She thought no wrong of him.
She merely stared long, silent moments into his
face, with burning in her own. The terror of some
great question to which her love was imperatively
demanding of him an answer.
Their lives had been an unconscious idyll from
childhood until now. Her soul still trusts, waits
but a word; a look would suffice, and the dread
would subside, never more to lie across her heart.
Tears live in the moments, and the man’s eyes
have grown sullen now with desperation and re
morse. In the hopelessness of the situation his
face for awhile is evil and older. It has not
occurred to him to lie. Then he speaks, while the
terror of something undefined flashes to horror of
a terrible truth in the woman’s heart as she
listens.
“I—kissed—her I” Then, quickly, with thicken-
ing voice :“It is unaccountable —I had no reason.
I went into the dining-room. It was in darkness,
save where a light streamed from the hall lamp as
I opened the door. I saw you lying on the couch,
I believed, and went over—it was the maid. The
situation was so queer—to find her there ! She
looked so strangely childlike, in her apparently
frightened confusion, that I kissed her before I
was aware of my intention. Angry with myself,
I muttered an oath and turned towards the door.
A little cry arrested me—compelled me back.
And then—and then .”
Somehow, this told the woman—together with
those unaccustomed eyes—that far more had been
admitted than could ever have dwelt in her mind
in accusation against her husband.
He had told her, and something of worth was
again in his look. And the woman ? Her eyes
are flint; the form has stiffened ; there are lines
about the face so deep that one could almost
credit its beauty had been dealt some grievous
physical hurt. Her nervous arms are about the
child, who has fallen asleep. Harshly she says:
‘I am going—you might have proffered me a
week’s notice.”
“My—wife!” A raw agony is in his voice.
There i* sorrow beyond life in the cry. She, who
has sm.k. her heu. > upon the child, shudders
violently. A terror of the power of those words
to subdue and soften is upon her. She places the
sleeping child between them upon the table. Then
come in a torrent broken-hearted, hopeless words
of reproach. But the man breaks in, as passionate
as she in his anguish, and authoritative through
sudden resolve.
‘ ‘ Darling, you must not—l will not listen ! I
deserve it all —nay, more. Remember, my wife.”
Again, that dear name ! This time there is a
sublime pity as well as adoration in the cry. An
agonising terror seizes her, as of some new horse.
She is like to fall. But the child moved in its
sleep—a wave of mother-love rouses her dying
senses to life once more, and her eyes are hard
with such deadly hate and bitterness that a deeper
note is wrung for life and pity from the man.
“Oh, my Darling—my dear one, forgive me !
Think well and swiftly. It must mean forgive-
ness utterly—as God forgives. Can you—will you
—do—you—love me ! ”
Her heart is leaping. His heart is still. “So
this is death ! ” says each in soul-agony. Then,
spent, the woman cries “No!” Yet, instantly,
has flung herself into his arms—unconscious, for-
giving—and forgiven.
NOEL NEWISKE.
M‘Cullooh, M.L.C., of Victoria, on his visit to
England :
What struck me more than anything- was the wonderful
change in the opinions of the man in the street, and the
men whom I met everywhere—at public banquets and
private dinner-parties, in the train, and elsewhere.
Twenty-five years ago, when in England, you would not
meet one man in 100 or 200 who would listen to anything
in the shape of Protection, or what some people call fair
trade. I have found on ea !i visit to the old country that
the numbers in favor of an alteration of the fiscal policy
of the country have been increasing very fast. Returning
as I did after an absence of ten years, I have no hesitation
in saying that I am under the mark when I say that
every second man I met on this occasion was in favor of
Protection or some alteration in the fiscal policy
of the country that would give their own pro-
ducers the opportunity of competing with the
producers of America, Germany and other coun-
tries. Wages have come down generally in Eng-
land during the last year or two. I paid a short visit
to Northampton, the centre of the boot manufacturing
industry, and, having a little time to spare, I made
inquiries amongst the business men. They told me that
the boot trade was very dull ; that the operatives were
not getting more than 3 and days’ work per week.
The cause, I was informed, was that the Americans, the
Germans and others were sending their surplus stocks to
England and selling them for whatever they' would bring,
to the detriment of the home manufactures. The people
feel strongly that something must be done to protect
their own work-people. It is the feeling even of men
who are freetraders that there is going to be a change,
and that during the next few years. The change will
spring from the working people themselves. Everywhere
in England the casual observer is compelled to note the
pronounced change that has taken place in fiscal opinion,
the old confidence in Freetrade having almost completely
disappeared.
♦
Love does not always laugh at locksmiths.
There are times when a locked door is handy.
“The secret of England’s greatness”
doesn’t seem to be altogether the Bible; it is
partly the capacity of English women to swell the
revenue by assisting the drink-bill. Of police-
court drunks in London, 38 per cent are women.


A truth from Mr. Carroll in N.S.W.
Assembly:
The Attorney-General should not practise before judges
when he has gifts in his keeping, such as judicial appoint-
ments.
Maoriland Railway Department, still sore
over the impudent way it was taken down by
Yankee car-builders about a year ago, has made
big additions to the railway workshops, and in
future all railway material that cannot be made in
the departmental workshops will be given out to
private workshops in the State. M.L.’s experi-
ence for the last few years has been that it can
make cheaper and better rolling stock than any it
can buy abroad.
The Seventh Day Adventists have been
acquiring numerous converts of late; which is
surprising, as their religion presents few attractive
features. They are vegetarians and teetotallers,
and are sworn against tobacco, tea, or coffee. The,
craze first started about 50 years back, and the
sect is now said to number 75,000. Their tenet is
strict obedience to the Ten Commandments, in-
cluding, of course, the precise observance of the
seventh day. Christ’s second coming they look
for daily. They now have in the Commonwealth
15 parsons, 52 churches, and a membership of
2500 —about 50 members per parson. The Aus-
tralian headquarters are at Cooranbong. In Mel-
bourne they operate the Echo Publishing Co., and
in Sydney run the Vegetarian Pure Food Cafe.
M ELLIN’S
FOR INFANTS FOOD AND INVALIDS
Is adapted for use from birth.
Send for Pamphlet and Samples to GOLLIN & CO., Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide and Wellington.
Hearne’s Bronehitis Cure.
TUB FAMOUS REMEDY EOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
wid ft Complete Cure is certain. «
BEWARE OF COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir. —I suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
6mall bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cin for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Viotoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured hy One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vio.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l am very muoh pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“ JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
I The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months —always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“ Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows :—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her‘half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir. —My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
ai.d difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Tears’ Case.
CUBED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be withou
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Tears’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney."
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS' CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes : —“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883 — 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
, eturn of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot Qffi ce . u 0 5 Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
The SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
1901, Limited.
WORKS s DAE»TO, La>lse Illawarra (56 MILES FROM SYDNEY)
SMELTERS
AND
REFINERS
SILVER
LEAD
BULLION
Assay Offices, General Offices, Store and Sulphuric Chamber.
MAKERS OF
S. Co, of Australia
AND
“ ILL AW ARRA"
BRANDS OF
SOFT LEAD.
Highest Price paid for GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, and JEWELLERS’ SWEEP, &c. Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
For all information regarding Rates, apply to HEAD OFFICE, DAPTO. W. L. HOYT, Manager.
-A.. B. Pttid,ca.er & 00., -3=o Fitt Street, Sydney, Forwarding -Agents.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
Food*
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
For Infants, Invalids, rnd the Aged . Delicious, Nutritive, and Digestible,
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
to) find. My wife sounds
the praise of * Benger’s
Food’ everywhere.”
“If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


&
4/2 GEORGES SYDne
UR big Jewellery Store was never so superior, never so splendid.
Every beautiful thing from England, America and the Continent is
here, and favourably priced for you. So quickly come and go the new
things that we could not enumerate them, but come in and see for
yourself what we have. We never press anyone to buy. We will gladly
show you the latest even if you come only out of curiosity. Our New
Catalogue is free to all.
No. E44s9—The “ Oupid ” Card Case,
Solid Silver, Lady’s Size, £2 10s.
Silver-Plated on Nickel Silver
Base, Tankard, i-pt., 12s; 1 pt.,
15s.
No. F6127—A1 Quality Silver-Plated
Toast Back, £1 15s.
No. F9ss4—Heavy 9ct Gold Twist Bracelet, 162 10s.
No. E3oB2—Oct Gold Bracelet, set Pearls and Sapphire
Doublets, £2 2s.
weus&amtitM
No. F9557—9ct Gold and Real Pearl
Bracelet, £2.
No. F9569—9ct Gold and Real Pearl
Bracelet, £1 7s. 6d.
9ct Gold & Tortoiseshell
Hairpin or Ornament,
£1 7s 6d.
No. F2lsB—Solid Silver Prize Bowl,
£8 10s. —BJin. x sJin.
No. F9s72—Strong 9ot Gold Twist Tube
Brooch, JEllOs.
1 53
&Lm-
No. 12478-—Silver Plated Butter Knife and Jam
Spoon, in a Case, 14s. 6d.
No. F999l—Silver Plated Satin Lined
Jewel Case, £1 ss.
No. F55B—Al Quality
Silver Plated Butter Dish,
£1 12s. 6d.
No 163—18 ct Gold
Diamond and Ruby Ring,
£3 10s.
•m
BWMMI
No. F64B3—Solid Silver
Pepper Pot, 18s. Cd.
No. E7B49—Silver - Plated
Egg Boiler, £1 7s. 6d.
No. l*'lcM2—(Jut; Glass and
Silver Piated Claret Jug,
£1 Is.
No. F47lo—Silver Plated Knife, Fork and Spoon,
in a Oase, 14s. 6d.
'awsonz
HEALTH AND VIGOR RENEWED.
CONSTIPATION
REMOVED.
The only remedy for constipation lies in
restoring the digestive and other functions to an
active and healthy condition.
It is useless to use purgative medicines only for
this purpose, as whatever effect they may have is
but temporary, and they leave the organs weaker
and more inactive than before.
As a general strengthened cleanser, and stimu-
lator of the digestive and functional organs, nothing
will be found more effective than Kutnow’s Powder.
Irresistible Testimony.
“ 10, Abercorn Place, London, N.W.,
“January 22nd, 1902.
“ Dear Sirs, —I have used Kutnow’s Powder as
directed, and find it very efficacious; more so than
other preparations I have tried. I shall always keep
a bottle of your Powder and make frequent use of it.
“ Yours faithfully,
“GEORGE ELLIOTT,
“Clerk in Holy Orders.”
BILIOUSNESS
BANISHED.
Sufferers from Biliousness are also likely to
be victimised by Loss of Appetite, Furred Tongue, a
Bitter Taste, Sickness, Constipation, and Headache
usually situated immediately above the eyes, the
upper half of the balls of which are painful on
pressure. Sometimes the pain occurs at the sides
and top, and occasionally, though more rarely, at the
back of the head.
Drowsiness, with a feeling of great depression
and general malaise, is a frequent accompaniment of
a bilious attack, while, on the other hand, a condition
of sleeplessness is almost as common when the head-
ache is severe. The remedy is
KUTNOW’S
POWDER.
THERE ARE FRAUDULENT IMITATIONS.
BEWARE OF THEM !!!
INDIGESTION
ERADICATED.
When Indigestion has continued long the sys-
tem becomes so weakened that almost any disease
can secure lodgment in it, and hence it is only a
matter of time when the sufferer’s life is brought to
a premature end.
Fully half the ailments the average medical
practitioner is called in to attend have their origin in
disorders of the digestive organs. Dyspepsia is
quickly remedied by Kutnow’s powder.
Irresistible Testimony.
“62, Somerset Street, Hull,
“January 22nd, 1902.
“ I was greatly pleased at the efficiency of your
Kutnow’s Powder. It is also extremely palatable
and greatly invigorates and relieves the system of
any tendency to biliousness. All persons troubled
with constipation will find in your Kutnow’s Powder
a pleasant, speedy, and sure cure.
“CHARLES ALCOCK.”
KUTNOW S POWDER may be obtained in capsuled bottles, of all Chemists and Medicine Vendors. See that
the Registered Trade Mark, “ Hirsckensprung ” (or Deer Leap), and the autograph facsimile signature, “ S. KUTNOW
and CO. (Ld.),” are on the label and carton. ONLY SUCH ENSURE GENUINENESS. INSIST ON “ KUTNOW’S ”
AND EIRMLY REFUSE ANY SUBSTITUTES; THEY ARE WORTHLESS AND OETEN INJURIOUS.
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & GO., LTD., 41 FARRINCDON RD., LONDON, E.C.
Proprietors in U.S.A.: Kutnow Bros., 853 Broadway, New York.


msd
PM
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark ” on band inside, as above.
KING
2h.p. to lOOh.p.
MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overr.il.
Noiseless Uudenvater . .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J. F.
Telephone 2671.
WITH THE KtMu cN_IH£-ONE LEV.-II COL'ILOLS THE WHOLE.
35.3 L cDB 2=t 2MC O -X* JP .3= o*o 3VE X=* -A. IST
37 UAK;t2T ST.T22T, £i'X"J32NT2ES'S2".
ft
Truly/'Truth is Stranger than Fiction.
■ -;=» • CZ;
one finds it very hard to believe that only a few years back our squatters
were “at their wit’s end ” to know how to dispose of their surplus stock, and when,
after a vast expenditure in experimenting, it was found possible to export frozen meat
in specially-constructed steamers, works were bu'lt all over the country, with a capacity
to kill and freeze millions of sheep in a year. Yet
To-day, in£t3ad of having Milkens to Export, we are
Importing Cattle and Frozen Meat.
Instead of the country supplying the citv with meat, MOST OF THE COUNTRY
TOWNS IN NEW SOUTH WALES ARE DRAWING THEIR SURETIES EROM
SYDNEY, in the shape of FROZEN MEAT or
ROSEWARNE’S
PRESERVED MEATS.
In order to cope with the increasing demand for their goods, the ROSEWARNE
PACKING CO., Ltd., has extended its works considerably. Yet it finds its resources taxed
to the utmost to keep up with the consumption.
ROSEWARNE’S PRESERVED MEATS
are now found upon the fables of thousands of settlers, not only in the “ back blocks,” but near
the cities. Householders in Sydney find that their canned
POULTRY, OX TONGUES and SHEEP’S TONGUES
are delicious.
Their CAFIBRIDGE, OXFORD and IRISH SAUSAGES are Economical,
Nutritious and Tasty.
So are their CHICKEN and HAfl PATES and GAJTE PIES.
They also put up ROAST, BOILED, CORNED and SPICED BEEF and
MUTTON, BRAWN, KIDNEYS, OX TAIL, SHEEP’S TRJTTCRS, STEAK
and ONIONS, &c. POULTRY of all kinds. Roast a::d Jugged Hare, &c.
Try them, and you will then Appreciate the Goeds.
The Rosewarne Packing Go.,
TLIIMIITiEID,
Factory : Chester St., Campsrdown.
Head Office: No. 70 Pitt St, Sydney.
Say Good-bye When Your Chum
is Married.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
jN t o\v this is a rhyme that might well be carried
Gummed in your hat till the end of things :
Say Good-bye when your chum is married ;
Say Good-bye while the cliurch-bell rings;
Say Good-bye—if you ask why must you,
’Tis for the sake of old friendship true,
For as sure as death will his wife distrust you
And lead him on to suspect you, too.
Say Good-bye, though he be a brother,
Seek him not when you’re married, too —
Things that you never would tell each other
The wives will carry as young wives do.
Say Good-bye ere their tongues shall strangle
The friendship pledged ere the lights grew dim,
For, as sure as death, will those young wives
wrangle,
And drag you into it, you and him.
HENRY LAWSON.
Business, Robbery, etc.
The casual young Australian and his casual old
employer. The cashier of a bigN.S.W. legal firm got a
had shock t’other day. A client called to tell him not to
trouble sending him any more of those quarterly notices
to pay interest on his £5OO mortgage, as he had paid off
the mortgage months before. The cashier, sniffing em-
bezzlement, turned cold, hub managed to ask: “And
with whom did you settle the matter?” “Oh! Young
Gosling” (naming one of the firm's articled clerks, not
fully fledged). Gosling was interviewed, and remembered
the transaction perfectly, adding : “ Of course, 1 handed
you ” (the cashier) “ the money. If I remember, it was
in notes.” The cashier indignantly repudiated the idea-
hut, after all, it was Gosling's word against his own. In
the hope that the bundle of “ Instruction ’’-papers in the
matter might cast some light on it they were fetched out
of their pigeon-hole, and near the top of the bundle were
found, neatly folded up, £5OO in “ big” bank-notes.
* * * *
“ Bosco ” : I recently “dropped” to a clever
variation upon the three-card swindle. The sharp used
a deuce, three and queen of diamonds, and, after the
usual play with the “buttoners” had stimulated the
crowd to speculate, the trickster placed over the cards,
as they lay face-downwards, a small flat piece of wood,
like a foot-rule, by way of showing that no substitution
or sleight-of-hand was possible. Then lie turned his head
to address those behind him, still holding the rule down,
whereupon one of the crowd, with a wink to the rest,
lifted up the corner of the middle card so that all could
jiee it was the queen. Then the other sharper—of course,
quite unsuspicious of this manoeuvre—turned round and
invited bets as to the position of the queen. He got a
good-sized one immediately, but, when the card' was
turned over, it was not the queen. The trick is managed
thus : The confederate has a cut-off corner of a queen,
and it is this, slipped under the corner of the deuce, that
is shown to the excited public. The rule, held on top of
the cards, prevents too much of the card being turned up
by accident. The person with the wink fetches the loose
corner away in his fingers after he has winked sufficiently,
and that is how the perfectly-visible queen isn't one after
all.
* * * «
Despite the Federal tariff-tax of 25 per cent.,
the trade in Xmas cards has opened unusually well this
season at the big Sydney wholesale houses. When the
tax was first proposed, interested people pointed out that
a deal of the sentiment would be deleted from the Christ-
inas rejoicings owing to Christmas cards being bevond
the reach of the poorer classes. It is noteworthy' that
although the duty is admittedly a revenue one (for it pro-
bably won’t be profitable to anyone to manufacture cards
on an extensive scale in Australia for a couple of decades
at least), the variation in, wholesale price is considerably
less than 25 per cent, on the pre-tariff rates, which some-
how suggests that the foreigner, or the Sydney merchant,
pays some part of the duty, or that they'are content with
less profit than in days of yore. Meanwhile the revenue
benefits handsomely through this tax on luxuries.
* * * *
Shyloek quickly evolves methods of defeating
the ends of legislative interference. An individual, on
going to one of the Chosen a few days ago for a £5 loan for
six months, was told that the interest would be 305., and
agreed to the terms. “ But I won’t lend you £s—we will
make it £lO for the same interest!” said Ike. The
borrower was, of course, agreeably astonished at such un-
wonted and unasked generosity, but was speedily brought
to earth when it was explained that £5 out of the £lO
would have to be handed back instanter, the loan being
of the nominal value of £lO so as to make the interest
appear relatively' less. “The public complain so much
about interest that we must do something to please
them 1” added the confidential money-broker.
» • * *
According to an English chemist, to demon-
strate whether “ butter ” is butter, or an artificial com-
pound (such as margarine, olearine, butterine, ike,.) some
of the stuff should be placed between two Nicol’s prisms,
and then photographed through a microscope. If the
article is genuine butter the photo, plate will show no
image whatever ; but if light dots appear on the plate
the sample is “ artificial ” butter. The rationale of the
process is that, though light-rays cannot pass through
two prisms laid together in a certain way, they can pass
through three ; and, since real butter does not contain
any' fat crystals, a portion of it between the two prisms
will produce no effect on the plate. All “artificial”
batters, however, contain fat-crystals, and these fur-
bish, in a manner, a third prism, so that, when they are
present, light passes through, and indicates them on the
otherwise dark photo.-plate by bright dots.
* • » *
C.D. : lie short-weight consignments of produce
from the country (8., 11/10/’02.) IPs just as bad in the
city. Weighbridges and bond-weights invariably favor
the wholesaler. llow things are managed between bouse
and house I don’t know ; but there surely must be some
arrangement, as I’ve never heard of one house disputing
another’s weighbridge or bond-weight. Stuff from ship’s
slings which comes into store at weight-values, if weighed
on an ordinary' “tested” Avery scale, will rarely tally
with the weighbridge docket, and nine times in ten a
load (20 to 28 cwt.) will be out to the extent of 14 to
56 lbs in favor of seller. I could quote many examples of
shortage in dried fruits, tapioca, sago, potatoes, etc.
One fact that points plainly to an understand-
ing between bond or weighbridge officials and whole-
salers is that when a complaint is made—as in your
other correspondent’s experience—no demur is ever
made. You are asked for particulars, and by next morn-
ing’s mail you have a corrected invoice. The larger the
firm the less chance of fair treatment. The small firm
cuts ; the big goes under that again ; but you can bet
they have to “ get there all the same” in order to pay
big divs., managers’ salaries, and directors’ fees. By
looking over old invoices the country storekeeper will see
he has been “had” time after time with respect to
“tares.” He should claim and insist on being allowed
the following :
81bs. off case of dates
91bs. off half-case of currants
IBlbs. off full case of currants
81bs. off half-case of raisins
31bs. off box of sultanas.
Never pay for more than lOOlbs. (half-barrel) or 2001bs.
(full barrel) of salt salmon. Wholesalers call them “ hun-
dreds” and “two hundreds” respectively, but con-
sistently invoice “ cwts,” and “ 2-owts. and, with new
stores, and stores which are “ iuto ” the distributor for a
few quid, the dodge succeeds.
* * * #
A Sydney solicitor, whose client was committed
for trial on a charge of safe-robberv, asked to have money
found on the client transferred to him to pay expenses of
defence. The P.M. declined, on the ground that the
money might turn out to be the proceeds of the robbery.
But if it did not so turn out, and if for want of proper
legal defence accused failed to prove his innocence, how
then ?
* * * *
“ Got this shock yesterday,” writes a Sydney
correspondent. “A ‘postman’s knock’ came at the
front door of my suburban cottage, and I answered.
Instead of the post, a man was there who wanted to
know if I had any dripping, kitchen-fat or kerosene-tins
to sell. I told him that if I had I was quite sure that I
wouldn't bring ’em to the front door. ‘ Oh, wouldn’t
yer? ’he said, as he edged away. ‘ You’re one of those
toffy blankers as wants to put down us blokes who’s tryin’
to earn a ’onest livin’. I, suppose ’— lie was near the gate
now —‘ yer sends yer pbor wife out doin’ washin’ while
you stops at home an’ dozes. Git work, yer blanky
loafer ! ’ I could only stare after him. When he was out
of sight 1 thought of a whole lot of things I could have
said.”
• * * *
The development of our “natural resources.”
A party of Chinamen who got a 5-acre lease at the Burde-
kin delta (Q.) for the purpose of salt-making, now quote
the prepared article at £2 10s. per ton—3os. less than it
can be landed for in Townsville.
* * * ife
The nonchalant way in which N.S.W. Board of
Health stigmatised the native wines sold in Sydney as
“ almost all adulterated ” is having a bad effect on
the consumption of N.S.W. wines in particular. The
Board should have specified, if it could not prosecute, the
offenders, and thus have protected the reputation of the
straight-dealers. These now maintain that most of the
adulterated wines referred to are wines expelled from the
other States.
* * * *
“Yarrum”: What poor but decent people
object most to is the sharp practice of unscrupulous
agents. Know a new y-marriul woman in Newcastle
district who had no end of annoyance from a man she
obliged. Agent drove up to the house and asked woman
—they never miss newly-married women, who are some-
times young, and mostly soft —if she wanted a machine.
She didn’t, and said so. It was looking like rain, and the
canvasser asked if he might leave, under the verandah,
a new machine lie had in the trap, and which he didn’t
w; nt to get wet. After a bit the woman put
the machine, which was getting splashed with
rain, indoors. Next day the agent called, and,
on being told his property was inside, said, ‘Ah!
so you have decided upon taking it.” She said she
“ hadn’t done no sieh thing,” and asked him to remove
it forthwith ; but he was not taking removals. Couple of
days litter she got bill from firm, and certain papers to
sign. Not knowing rightly what to do, she consulted a
man, who advised her to write saying the bailiffs were
about to be put in on her. And that’s how she got out of
the trouble, as the sewing weapon was removed in haste.
* * * *
“si.” : Re an old Bulletin story that I chanced
upon to-day, about certain fencers who rung the changes
on a squatter in the matter of some cheques and fell in
badly. I . have heard the story told of squatter Bobby
Band, but, as 1 heard it, it was Bobby wlio fell in, and
great was the fall thereof, lie had out the price rather
line in the matter of a fencing contract, and three em-
bittered fencers vowed vengeance. One of them, who
was some kind of a fallen genius, acquired some blank
cheques, and when they got the contract money, in one
lump, made a beautiful copy of Bobby’s cheque. Then
the deputation returned to Bobby quarrelling fiercely as
they came within hearing, and one of them explained
with much force that the other two were a bad, bad lot,
and no one would trust any of the others to carry
the cheque till they got to the bank. And thereupon
they exchanged the forged cheque of, say, £9O for three
good cheques of £3O each, and thus went away with £lBO
of Bobby’s negotiable paper. Bobby always denied the
yarn, but then a man of his acumen would probably
rather lose £9O than admit that he had fallen in. On the
other hand, the man who was pointed out to me once as
the prime mover in the swindle, didn’t look anything like
intellectual enough to take down Bobby Rand. Moreover
he also denied it, and insisted on beer as compensation
for the suspicion cast on his character. Perhaps the tale
was only a public-house myth.
*** * *
The Hibernian Hall (Melb.) is now the property
of the Caledonians of the Southern city. When it was
being erected the Hibernians had to borrow money fron»
tlie Scotchmen to finish it, and, a few years ago, the
latter foreclosed and seized the premises. What a com-
mentary on the business ability of the two races I The
Micks do the work and the Macs take the profit.
* * * *
“N.”: A friend of mine, S., had a sister, who
married P., a scientific chemist. S. was an architect and
surveyor, of limited practice. P. indoctrinated him into
chemistry. S. found out a process, and kept it to him-
self. Afterwards he quarrelled with P. S., with his
simple process, built up a most lucrative business, both
in Melbourne and Sydney. P. broke his heart over the
vain endeavor to discover it. I will say that, so far as I
can ascertain, nobody in the world knows this process
but S. Everybody in his line has been experimenting
right and left, in vain. Everyone has to go to him for
the peculiar thing. It was not patented. This is recalled
to my mind by reading of a number of other family trade
secrets, which battled all scientific discovery for genera-
tions, and are still unsolved.
* * * *
The steamboat line now running between
N.S.W. north coast and Brisbane promises to establish a
profitable trade. A shipment of butter lately realised 2d.
per lb. more in the Q. capital than the ruling Sydney
price.
Beautiful specimen of Argus country
telegrams :
Hamilton.—Mr. I). Wilson, the speying expert con-
nected with tlie Agricultural Department, completed his
work in this district on Monday. He has operated on
222 cows during the past few weeks.—Sister Mary lec-
tured on behalf of Miss Sutherland’s Homes in the town
hall, Hamilton, on Sunday afternoon and evening.
Councillor Greed presided, and there were large audiences
present.
What may be called inappropriate propinquity.
According to London Outlook, Sir W.
Mulock, Canadian Postmaster-General, in order
to prove to a friend how ignorant tlie British
are about the Dominion, decided to ask
the next three persons they met (in the
Strand, London) if they had ever heard
of Canada. The first man hadn’t, and the
second would only commit himself to the assur-
ance that Canada was “nowhere near the Strand,
anyhow.” The next person was a flower-girl,
who, when asked if she was familiar with Ottawa,
indignantly returned—“ Familiar with who ? You
just get along or I’ll smack your dirty face ! ”
One feature of the just-ended Boer war is
the way the leaders of the Republican troops
suffered in comparison to their men. Joubert
died before his time owing to strain ; Olivier, who
mauled Gatacre at Stormberg, was shot dead in a
skirmish in Harrismith district ; Steyn, although
slightly recovered from his paralysis, is a perma-
nent invalid, and cannot live long. Lucas Meyer
is dead from heart disease, for which the war
seems to have been responsible ; Prinsloo, Orange
Free State Commandant-General, is a wreck, and
Kruger is a crushed, fast-sinking old mail. Even
poor old Reitz, an incipient paralytic, although lie
escaped personal injury, is ruined, his property
having been confiscated and sold under Kitchener’s
infamous proclamation.
“ Scotty W.” :
“ A bath in every English hotel is an extra” (Randolph
Bedford, B. 11/10/’O2). Then all I have to say is that there
has been a retrogression in 40 years. I do not know
what sort of hotels R.B. put up at, but he’s a journalist,
and not a bigger swell than “men from Aldershot” or
“ gunners, I believe, by their sun-mark.” In ’G2-’G4 I
was constantly in London, cadet and “ gunner.” All our
shops had baths and no charge. I suppose they are
rep aced with tubless ones. And in all the lodgings about
St. James’s used by army, navy, and ’Varsity, the bath-
room was an indispensable. Every lodging I took in
Glasgow had one, and the country house I was reared in
(at least 100 years old) had an excellent stone bath, big
enough to float in. The “Englishman’s tub” is not a
superstition. At the R.M.A. the tubs were iron tubs in
the old.part, baths in the new, and you had to take one
or lie labelled “ frowsty.” The parson was called the
“frowsty man of God,” because we suspected him of
dispensing with “ tub.”


Piles.
AMD HOW to CURE THEM.
ONE of the most painful, disagreeable, and annoying complaints known to the
medical fraternity to-day is that of Piles. Both the Bleeding and the Blind
Piles are too well known to require description.
The Bleeding Piles are not as painful as Blind Piles, but are very disagree-
able, and sometimes dangerous ; they are caused by swelling of the haemorrhoid veins,
the cause of which is not well understood. Blind Piles are more common, and cause a
great deal of misery and wretchedness; they are caused by the formation of small
particles of various sizes, singly and in bunches, extending upwards and causing excru-
ciating pain. Violent inflammation and costiveness generally accompany piles, of
whicli the former is usually the first symptom. As there is a delicacy in mentioning
this disease, many people suffer for months without letting their complaint be known.
This is extremely dangerous, as in cases of either Bleeding or Blind Piles no time should
be lost in applying a remedy. Bile Beans, acting as a gentle cathartic, will flush the
bowels and afford almost instantaneous relief. This complaint should be treated in very
much the same manner as chronic constipation, and Bile Beans will be found invaluable.
Such has been the experience of many past sufferers. Here is one.
Mr. Charles Jones, Blacksmith, of Cobalt Street, Railway Town, Broken Hill,
suffered frightful agony from Piles and Constipation, and he says: —“About three
months ago I had a severe attack of Piles. I had returned from working on the mines
to my own trade of blacksmith, and the change from working underground in the wet
stopes, to the hot and dry work of the ‘smithy,’ brought on constipation and finally
piles. For three weeks I was unable to work, and it was agony to sit down. A friend
on the mines, who had been cured of lead poisoning by Bile Beans, recommended them
to me. The third dose brought me relief, and before the first box was finished the piles
disappeared and have not since returned. I have never been in better health than at
present, and I cannot be grateful enough, or speak highly enough of your medicine, and
the wider you publish this the more I shall be pleased.”
By purifying the blood and stimulating the liver, stomach and digestive organs to
proper action, Bile Beans have been proved to be an undoubted specific for Bilious-
ness, Indigestion, Constipation, Piles, Bad Blood, Pimples and all Skin
Eruptions, Bad Breath, Debility, Nervousness, Female Weaknesses, Sleep-
lessness, Anaemia, Headache, etc. Bile Beans are obtainable from all medicine
vendors ; price or 2/9 large box (contains three times small size) or direct from
The Head Australasian Depot, Bile Bean Manufacturing Co., 39 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
ILE -
BANS
lUOVSNESS
1
■
m
m
mm
m.
, via m
■?&:s£■■:.■:",.,. - ~i&% **¥£s*&-' v
M
HMI
1
i|g§lg
■
hm
mmmsm
wmmm/m.
I
■»
The Bannigans, of the Cross-
Roads.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
When we were children we were all a bit afraid
of Biddy Bannigan. She lived down at the next
cro3S-roads, in a tumble-down place nearly hidden
behind the hedge of “ prickly-bush ” that
sprawled half way across the unmade road.
The walls of Bannigan’s had been plastered and
whitewashed once, but the plaster had peeled off
in places, leaving the brown pug exposed. On
one wall, peering sideways through the gaps in
the hedge, we used to see two round places, which
suggested eyes, staring out from under the old
overhanging, untidy, swamp-reed roof.
Biddy Bannigan lived there with Barney, her
eldest son, of whom she thought the world, and
Peter, a young one, whom she only nagged. They
had two 80-acre sections, and they farmed them
in a sort of way, which didn’t amount to much.
When Barney had finished “seeding” he couldn’t
find the slip-panels, so he put the plough across
the opening and stood the harrows up against it.
Barney’s plough, or his horse-rake, or his stripper,
was always stopping up a hole somewhere when
it ought to have been under the shed. That was
his style.
But, though none of us thought much of Barney,
we weren’t afraid of him. Not we children, that is.
Some of the older ones were, even if they wouldn’t
own up to it; they, at least, said he was “fit for any-
thing.” It was poor old Biddy, his mother,
whom we hardly ever saw outside the prickly-
hedge, and then, outside as inside, with a red
handkerchief tied round her head ; poor old
Biddy, whose brogue was so thick that we could
not understand her even when she spoke to us,
and so, of course, were frightened still more’
which made her angry and shrill —it was Biddy
who was our terror.
And yet it was not all terror. The fact was (we
mentioned this only in secret whispers) we believed
she was some kind of a witch-woman. Of course,
we knew there were no real witches (we went to
Sunday-school in the little chapel with our
brothers’ and sisters’ graves all around it, on the
bit of rising ground at the corner of Marsh’s
section); but—well, Biddy Bannigan was some-
thing like a witch would be, if there were witches.
It was this way, as all Ridley’s Plain knew.
The family of which she was the eldest child
possessed a tremendous secret, passed down from
some ancestor of great skill in medicine, from
eldest child to eldest child, generation after
generation, Jitil finally it was housed in the
tumble-down place at the cross-roads. The secret
was a cure for cancer. And if there was one thing
that Ridley’s Plain had more fixed faith in than
anything else it was that there was something in
the old woman’s mysterious cure. Our fathers
and uncles had changing ideas about the value of
purple-straw and other sorts of wheat, about
fallowing, and stinkworts, and bluestone “pick-
ling,” and when they got together for a “pitch ”
in the barn on wet days they could settle none of
these things ; but if the talk somehow got round
to Barney, and then to Biddy, and then, of course,
to the cancer-cure, not even Johnson Marsh, the
most cantankerous of farmers on the Plain—not
even he would dispute that it was a pity some
great doctor couldn’t take it up.
They knew it wasn’t any use talking about that,
though.. They knew, all the Plain knew, that by
the most awful oaths that could bind a man or
woman the secret had to go from eldest child to
eldest child, and none else. And (wherein our
sisters, who read the Young Ladies’ Companion,
saw the hand of a haughty ancestor) to no man
was the holder of the secret to go; yet, to the
holder of the secret all might come and be healed.
To no man, poor or rich, was the healing to be
denied ; or curses would fall on the holder—curses
which even our fathers and uncles in the barn
didn’t know for certain, but which were spoken of
as though they were the most awful things of the
kind ever devised, as no doubt they were.
So the cure could not go from the pug house
down at the cross-roads to the consultation rooms
of a city man, to make for him fame and fortune,
though it was said that thousands of pounds had
been offered for it.g. Instead, all that happened
was that now and then the mail-cart, which passed
our place twice a week, brought down a patient
and took him back again in the afternoon.
Generally he was already wrapped in linen cloths,
and, if he had bared them, might have shown the
futile wounds of the surgeon’s knife. He would
pass forwards and backwards with the mailman
for perhaps a month or two, and his visits would
end. They said in the barn that Biddy never
had a fair chance ; her patients only came when
the doctor had given them up; and still, the last
one had been cured. Perhaps. We never knew.
For Biddy Bannigan spoke but rarely to any-
body ; and about the secret she would gossip to
nobody at all.
We never knew how the feud between the
Bannigans and the Ellises started. Perhaps
there was some color-conflict at the bottom of it,
waiting for a little thing to set it going. Barney
always had a wild calf or half-a-dozen pigs roam-
ing about, getting into neighbors’ paddocks just
when they could do the most damage, and as
likely as not it was something of that sort. Any-
how, Barney and young Dave Ellis hated one
another with the hatred of farm neighbors, which
is a hatred capable of more pettiness than perhaps
any other sort.
We used to side with Ellis. That seemed the
natural thing, “because nobody had much truck
with the Bannigans. They were interlopers in a
way—the only people on the Plain that never
went to the chapel on the rise. Certainly the
Hacketts only used to go to anniversaries; still,
as they were “Church of England,” even that
showed neighborliness. But the Bannigans had
never in all their lives heard old Uncle Lovelock
pedalling and pounding away at the gasping har-
monium under the pulpit. Even if they did not
believe quite as we did, we all agreed they might
at least have come to hear our singing and reci-
tations on anniversary afternoons. But they
didn’t; and that marked them off.
Perhaps if some of us had seen a bit of the
world we should have had a little more sympathy
for Barney, living alone with his boorish brother
and the eccentric old woman. He might very
well have thought precious little of the lot of us,
As it was he concentrated his dislikes upon Ellis,
and cultivated that as he cultivated nothing else.
So when Dave Ellis said that Ridley’s Plain
and farming were too slow for him, and that he
was going mining, and went, we wondered how
Barney would get on. We came nearest to pity-,
ing him ever we got, for we felt he would be very
miserable. Most likely, if he had been left alone,
he would have forgotten Ellis. But those of us
who dared, took fine care that he didn’t do any-
thing of the sort. Dave, according to all the
letters he wrote, was doing vyonderful things.
He was up at the Barrier ; and it was in the days
■of the Treasure and the Hen and Chickens, and
the A pollyon Valley, when they were digging up
slugs of chloride and native-silver like potatoes,
and selling their claims for thousands. Dave’s
luck was rubbed into Barney at every chance that
came or could be made, and, as his own
luck was worse even than usual, he hated
Bllis more than ever. Ridley’s Plain thought it
was having good fun.
After all, though, perhaps Dave’s luck was not
so dazzling as had been made out. Anyway, after
a while, we heard that he was working on the
Day Dream smelters, and we reckoned that
only meant wages, even if wages were good
in those days. But he told us how they drove
in the bar, and out from the blinding fur-
nace flowed a stream of silver and lead that,
in a minute or two, filled a pot so big that it
was a strong man’s work to shift it; and that the
pots kept going night and day ; and we left it to
Barney to think it was all Dave’s, and to curse him
the harder. It didn’t hurt Dave, of course, and,
as I said, it was our fun.
Dave wasn’t the only young fellow that cleared
out from Ridley’s Plain for the Barrier ; and in the
barn on the wet days now, while father darned
and patched the holes in the wheat bags, or
daubed the harness with lampblack and oil,
instead of talk drifting to the Bannigans it always
went from rust and smut in wheat, and drake, and
take-all, and bad seasons, and farmer’s bad luck
in general, to the silver-fields and the fortunes
men were making there. They knew the story of
the jackeroo (though they weren’t quite sure
what a jackeroo was) who was going to be worth
millions; and Ahearn, the publican in at the
township, had told Johnson Marsh of a teamster
who had gone up with loading from the Burra
and had got hold of a good show that he’d been
offered six thousand for. And they all knew that
six thousand, or the half of it, took a lifetime to
make on Ridley’s Plain.
Well, that went on for a while, and Dave was
always coming home next Christmas—though two
Christmases went and he didn’t—when, in a
roundabout way, we heard through young Lind-
say, who had been “improver” at the black-
smith’s in the township, that Dave was “not too
well ” ; and it was said that the local medical man
didn’t quite know what to make of him. Any-
how, after a while he wrote to his mother that it
was nothing—only some sort of blood-poisoning
that the doctor reckoned he had caught in the
smelters, most likely from having a draw of
another man’s pipe between furnace-taps; and
they needn’t think any more about it.
I don’t suppose they ever told Dave up there
what was the matter with him. In a month or
so the local man said he must get the lead out of
his system and sent him down with a letter to
Adelaide. The doctor there put him into the
hospital, and probed, and called up some other
doctors. Dave wanted to know what the trouble
was, but they said they hadn’t quite made-up
their minds yet. He noticed, though, that some
of the nurses seemed to get a bit more sympathetic,
and somehow, though he liked it well enough,
that seemed to him a bad sign. He did not know
much about diseases himself; still, days before
the doctor told him at last that he thought it
might be some sort of cancerous growth, he had
made up his own mind that it must be that, and
said so.
Then, of course, the next talk was about an
operation. “A young fellow like you,” they
said, “ will easily pull through.” Dave sent for
his mother then, and in the long, weary days
after the operation she sat with him every minute
that the doors were open.
There was one thing he could not root out of his
mind, nor his mother either. It was a snatch of
talk that he heard as he was floating about
between sense and ether dreams, and he knew it
must have come from one of the doctors. “Any-
how, whenever I come across a cure I doubt if it
was cancer at all.”
“ Well, he only meant that there aren’t as many
cases of cancer as they think at first,” Dave’s
mother would argue when she couldn’t convince
him that he really had not heard the words at all.
But Dave knew better than that ; and when
they said that they must “get at something they
must have missed before ” he lost all the hope he
ever had of a cure that way ; and his thoughts,
like the thoughts of every other person on Ridley’s
Plain, turned continually to the old widow at
the cross-roads.
But Barney— ! Well, no doubt Barney had for-
gotten all about him by this time. And, even if
he hadn’t altogether done that, he was sure to
have forgotten the stupid old grudge. Dave was
sick enough to forgive everybody himself; and he
assumed that the world was at peace with him as
well—Barney included.
Dave’s mother thought there would be no harm
in going to the old woman and talking it over,
anyhow.
But there was this difficulty. Old Biddy, nearly
blind for years, was now abed ; none other but she
knew the ointments and washes ; and, till she was
dead, none other, not even Barney, to whom it was
to come, must open the paper whereon it was all
written. That was the law of the inheritance;
only thus could there be escape from the curses,
at the very thought of which the old woman’s
knees shook. And yet, the saints knew, she had
held the trust sacred.
Dave’s mother did not even mention the matter.
Yet the old woman knew —knew well that it
wasn’t for nothing that a neighbor came to Biddy
Bannigan.
She knew she was dying ; and Barney must have
the secret soon. It had been a sore trouble to
her that Barney had not as much respect for curses
as she could wish ; and if he should refuse the
healing ointment 1
Her boy, cursed with the fearful curses that
came with the blessing—and she, his mother,
must bring it all upon him !
“Barney,” she said that night, “come by me.
’Tis soon the secrets will be yours. Ye know the
sacred duty ye have —it is written in the papers ;
ye must deny the blessing to no man, poor or
rich ; your friend, or, Barney, your enemy. Boy,
the mother of Dave Ellis ”
“Pah ! To hell with Ellis ! ”
“The curses, Barney ! —oh, my son, ye know the
curses ! ”
“Damn the curses !”
She put her shrunken old hands to her almost
sightless eyes, and rocked in her agony. The
worst she had feared would happen, and her boy
would be damned and tormented.
A thought came that frightened her. But the
boy must be saved.
Slowly she dragged herself from her bed to the
great red box that had come with her from the
old land, and had stood for years in the corner ;
feverishly she groped into the farthest recess, and
crumpled a roll of papers in her fingers ; then
thrust'them into the flame of the candle, and,
burying her head in terror at hep wickedness, held
the torch above her till the hand was blistered
and the blackened ruins of the paper fell upon
her head and shoulders. She had saved her boy.
And Barney, when he saw the ashes, knew how
his mother had spent her last moments. But he
told those who went to the funeral that the story
of the family secret was all an old woman’s yarn.
S.H.P.


Tired All the Time
A Terrible Feeling of Exhaustion. Unfit for Business. Debilitating
Effects of Hot Seasons. All Easily Removed.
«?•
&S -
Mrs. C. McDonald, of Northcote,
Victoria, Australia, sends us her
photograph and says:
“I was a great sufferer from some
of the most terrible forms of indiges-
tion. I was all tired out from morn-
ing until night. My languor made me
unfit for work or business of any
kind, and I was about ready to give up
discouraged. My liver was all out of
order, and this made me suffer from
constipation and biliousness. Two
remedies completely cured me. I took
Ayer’s Pills to act on my liver and
keep my bowels in good condition,
and Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to purify my
blood, strengthen my nerves, and put
my digestive organs in a healthy
state.”
“The World’s Greatest Family IViedicine.”
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is of great help to almost every one in this debilitating
climate. It prevents exhaustion, keeps the nervous system in good order,
and takes away all that tired feeling. Don’t wait until you are down sick.
It’s much wiser and easier to prevent sickness. When the stomach fails,
sickness comes very easy. Profit by Mrs. McDonald’s experience and put your
digestive organs in a healthy state.
We must caution you against imitation Sarsaparillas. Be sure vou get
“ Ayer’s.” There’s no risk to run with this old, reliable medicine
AYER’S § arsaparilla
The Oldest, Surest, Strongest, and Best Sarsaparilla
Ayers Pills act on the liver and keep the bowels in good condition.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass.. TT. S. A.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK; Price, 4s. 6d
A Handsome Cloth-bound Volume of over 300 pages. The best
collection of Short Stories and Literary Sketches yet produced in
Australia. Price, 4s. 6d., postage 6d. Wholesale: Edwards,
Dunlop and Co.
list OF contents. Postage 6d
SOLE LIST]
TING AGENTS:
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS eus
French’s Acting Edition.
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Boohs Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
PILLS
II OR. Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush*
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cosnveness, Blotches on Dis-
turbed Sleep and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. L Hit IKb 1 UUSL
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no Action. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOS.” , t , . . ...
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health, ihey
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Roskbud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medicine m
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, EHCLANB■
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is and 2s 9d each.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
George and Market Sts> 9
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
Single Room, with Pull Board, Bs. per
day, or £2 2s. per week.
TERMS. The convenient
system of paying for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
YOU ENJOY YOUR LUNCH
When you come to Roberts* Hotel
Dining Rooms; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.30 —from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS'S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING^
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
DON’T MISS THIS
OPPORTUNITY, if you are suffering with WEAKENING,
NERVOUS, and DEBILITATING Diseases. Our CON-
CENTRATED BOTANIC REMEDIES will CURE YOU.
So CONFIDENT are we of this that we will send to any
sufferer a TRIAL COURSE (Free of Charge) and abide
by the RESULT. Send NOW and your ultimate CURE
is CERTAIN. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
The Bulletin Reciter; Price ss.
By Eighty (80) Bulletin Bards. With Illustrations by
“ Hop,” N. Lindsay, A. J. Fischer, F. Leist, D. H.
Souter, and H. McCrae. In handsome Cloth, decorated.
Race, 55.; postage, 4d.
LIST OF CONTENTS
Postage 4d.
The How -We-Beat-the -
Favourite Affliction ...
Gig Fours
Don’t Let the Moth Get In
The Winner of the Squat-
ters’ Cup
The Three Roads
Christmas Belle
My Mate Bill
What the Bottle Said ...
A German Lament
The Anarchist
The Fall of Patrick
Dooley
The Jester of the Damned
The Hairy Man of Koora-
watha
A Big “Bust”
A Tight Corner
The Road to Wyoming ...
Jim Jamieson, of Tringabar
The Mallee Fire ; ..
Among the Palms
Dreams and Deeds
Boko ...
“Dunno!”
The Fat Man and the War
The Shoe
The Cocky’s Handy Man ...
Bashful Gleeson
Skßeta
The Currency Lass ...
The Confidential Jockey
How We Won the Ribbon
A Twisted Idyl
The Tugs of Simpsonville
The Sick Cab-Rider
Tambaroora
Father Riley’s Horse
O’Toole and M‘Sharry ...
Faces in the Street
The Bush Missionary
The Last Bullet
The Honeymoon Train ...
The Murder-Night
A Scotch Night
M. M. O'Donnell
“ MoG .”
- T. A. Wilson
Frank Bellman
Victor J. Daley
“ John Carew"
G. H. Gibson
E. J. Brady
“ Sendee”
Arthur H. Adams
E. J. Dempsey
J. H. Greene
“ Tom Freeman ”
Edward Dyson
C. H. Souter
Evelyn Threlfall
“ Pan”
C. H. Souter
“ Hesketh ”
E. J. Dempsey
“ t.urlew ”
Bernard Espinasse
“ Magnet ”
J. M. L.
“ Ben Sun”
Edward Dyson
Bancroft Boake
Roderie Quinn
Francis Kenna
Will H. Ogilvie
Frank Morton
W. T. Goodge
Edmund Fisher
“Sendee”
A. B. Paterson
Thomas E. Spencer
Henry Lawson
W. T. Goodge
John Farrell
A. G. Stephens
Hugh MJJrae
Will H. Ogilvie
Sole Distributing Agents —
Edwards, Dunlop & Co,, Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane. '


SIDNEY
Rubber Works
MANUFACTURERS OF
Sheet Rubber,
Washers,
Valves,
Gas Tubing,
Rubber Rings,
Rollers,
Buffers,
and Every Description of
Mechanical Rubber Goods.
Works:
CAREY STREET, off Bikkenhead Road.
City Office:
PERDRIAU & CO.
270 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles, fully warranted.
Latest
Models'
£2. lO t0£5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
tree Wheels, Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any Port in Australasia,
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using Stamp. Address Dept 31611
Mead
Chicago.
U.S.A.
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. o. ELDBIDGE. & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Worthington Pumps
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send for Catalogue!
CUTLERY
Celebrated
PLATE and
MARK.
§§©s
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs.. SHEFFIELD
At the Showroom*—
Empire Chambers, 93 York-St.
SYDNEY.
Also a®
“THE BLOCK,”
Collins-st.. MELBOURNE.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
m
o
aeS
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
' -
u
mm
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
As well as Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers,
;
aii
i
“ H
a. 4
w 2
O H
-+»«
ere
CD
CD
CO
CTQ
CO
P
3
CO
CD
CO
Wood Pulleys
Shafting
Hangers
Plummer Blocks
Collars
Couplings
Drills
mm
Reamers
Valves Valves Valves Valves
Oster Stocks and Dies and Taps, Crane Hinged Pipe Vyces, Emery
Wheels and Grinders, ail kinds of Lubricators, Starrett Fine
Mechanical Tools, etc., etc., etc.
write for Prices to 60 Clarence-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
I
TO
THE
DEAF
Sufferers from Deafness or Head Noises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to The L. R. VERNON CO.
60 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet describing an entirely new self-
applied method which we will send post
free on mentioning this paper.
H. ?. GREGOR!) S CO.
Machinery Merchants,
Melbourne & Sydney.
HAVE IN STOOK-
Blake’s Steam Pumps.
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery,
Mundy’s Hoisting Engines-
Empire Oo.sLaundry Machinery-
American “All Steel” Pulleys-
Harris Champion ” Lubricating Oils.
Mason Eeducing Valves-
Ludlow Sluice Valves-
Korting’s Injectors and Ejectors-
Tanite Emery Wheels.
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY,
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURE, will forward the same, free of
Charge, to anyone interested.
Address: A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
RARE ■ |
ROOKS
FRENCH,
ENGLISH,
GERMAN,
2/ - ___
Largest Catalogue, with
Specimen Photo. Apply
Box 116 Paris.
RAND DRILL CO.,
NEW YORK.
Manufacturers of
AIR COMPRESSORS
of New and Improved Design-
LITTLE DIANT & SLUDGER ROOK DRILLS
Stocks kept by
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
Sole Agents . 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No, 1063.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public
and
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
U'»
e '9
Vli
jyjOTICE TO IYHStBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotei
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
