

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
’S
RUM.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
R. G. WATKINS & CO
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
B - —FOB—
mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
o**r27ooHydro~Blxtra«to?s Sold and at work
MEDICAL C2EFt.XIi i "IG:A'rE.
“Ararat (Victoria), 25th Aug-., 1902.
“ During the past few years Eczema has become of very
frequent occurrence, especially in children. In the treat-
ment of this troublesome affection the usual medicinal
remedies failed in many cases to give relief, and I was very
pleased to have a new preparation, named ‘ Oleae,’ put into
my hands for trial. I can recall to my mind three cases of
children in which the usual remedies had no beneficial
effect, and the application of ‘ Oleae ’ according to the
printed directions removed all the irritation of the skin.
I have also heard of many adults using the ‘ Oleae ’ with
great benefit.—JAMES SMEAL, Surgeon, &c., Ararat '*
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin writers. Cloth, 300 pages ;
price, 4s. fid. ; postage, fid.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS I
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
■ A
BROADBENT’S
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
“ RACKARDCK,
Bd.
per lb
?
R. A. HERVEY,
Cor. Clarence & Kingr-Sts.,
SYDNEY.
Estbd. 1831.
WHISKY.
HOBART.
ZfcX
fiadleys Orient Ijotel.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Grade).
J. A. TURNER - - Proprietor.
PERFECT
■'WATER
ASSISTS
DIGESTION!
SHOULD
| BE]
ICED
PENFOLD’S WINES.
Grand Champion Prize of Australia at Melbourne, August 22, 1902.
■ ::
PIONEER
LEATHER
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2£ 3 Zi 4 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
-17 -19 -/10| 1/- 1/2 1/6 IAI 2/8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 IAO 2/2 2/11 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
J. G. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Sam no Worthiest
Imitations.
the edis¥ a m
tlnited Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch : 16 Carrington-street
WYNYAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Mining and Dredging Plants.
Fowler Traction
Engines, Boilers, &c.
Engines.
The Clyde Engineering C°y.Lt°
Desiccating Plants.
Hopper Waggons, &c.
PROOF
USE
V ’ Ift Rl IP.H CT
Office:
10 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY
BRYANT & HAY’S WAX VESTAS
... PATENT SAFETY MATCHES
“isaa
‘pinog iivij ‘©zi
See that
1 <
the name Bryant
is on Every Box.
ftp
A NICE PRESENT.
The New Combination PIN-
CUSHION, THIMBLE & REEL
HOLDER, nickel plated, plush
top. Clamps on to any table
by means of a spring:. Price,
only 2s. ; post free.
Star Novelty Company,
229-231 Co»ins-st.,
Melbourne.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
THE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City
4-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
WHEN buying a KEROSENE GAS STOVE insist
* ' on getting a noiseless
JUPITER
The Very Latest
Invention.
Burns Noiselessly,
Without Smell
or Smoke,
Perfectly Sate.
Obtained First Prize
wherever exhibited.
Stocked by all Leading Hardware Merchants and
Storekeepers.
Sole Agents for Australasia —
Nelson and Robertson,
17 LOFTUS ST., SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vol. 23.—N0. 1184.
[Saturday, October 25, 1902.
Registered at the G-enera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


the latest books by this weeks mail.
Menpes, World Pictures (MOjllustrationj), 245, postage Is.
MacGillivray, Law of Copyright, 30s, p. Is 9d.
James, Wings of a Dove, 2s 6d & 3s 6d ~p. 6d.
Turner (Ethel), Little Mother Meg, 2s SB & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
French, The Colonials, 2s 6d & 3s'6d, p. 6d.
Dalles, Machinery for'Metalliferous Mines, 30s, p. Is 9d.
Corelli, Temporal Power, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
f Cobbs, A Man of Sentiment, 3s’Gd, postage 6d.
Lyall (David), Another Man’s Money, 2s Gd & 3s 6d, p. 6d
Snaith, The Wayfarers, 2s 6d & 3s Gd, p. 6d.
Tracy, Wooing of Esther Gray, 2s*6& & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Tytler, Courlship of Sarah, 3s Gd, p. 6d.
Bottone. Amateur Electricians’ Workshop, Is 9d. p. 3d.
(J.H.), If I Were King, 6a, p. 6d.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne. Adelaide, Brisbane & London
The Bulletin publications.
Forwarded to any address in return for postal
notes, stamps, or P. 0.0. for prices stated.
Send Id. stamp for The Bulletin Book Circular,
No. V.
Castro’s I>ast Sacrament and Other
Stories:
, By Albert Dorrington (“ Alba Dorion ”).
A handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated ; price 4s. 6d. ; postage, 7d.
Fair Girls and Gray Horses, wi'di Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. New Issue. Blue
cloth, blue edges, with portrait; price, ss. ;
postage, sd. *** A charming presentation
volume.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top; price,
55.; postage, 3d. *** Australia’s best book
of sea and sailor verse.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; price, ss. ; postage, 3d. *** The best
book of Maoriland verse yet published.
THE BULLETIN BOOKS.
Sole Distributing Agents :
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
Special Wholesale Agents :
New South Wales .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
Queensland .. .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd
Victoria .. .. .. George Robertson Proprietary.
Tasmania George Robertson Proprietary.
South Australia .. E. S. Wigg & Son.
Westralia .. .. E. S. Wigg & Son.
Auckland and district Wildman, Lyell, & Arey.
Others to be appointed.
Sold by All Leading Booksellers.
The Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd.,
214 Gkorgk-st., Sydney, Australia.
The representative book of Australian humor —
STEELE RUDD’S
“ On Otir Selection.”
Second impression now ready. Price, 6s. Bd.
post free from The Bulletin office.
AUSTRALIA’S^^
*« —SWEET SIN6ER.
Victor J. Daley’s “At Sawn and Dusk,”
handsomely bound,' makes a fine presentation
volume to friends abroad. Post free from Bul-
letin office, ss. 4d.
“ZM Bulletin” Reciter.
You can’t be Amusing
Without it. . . .
Humorous and Exciting Stones in Stirring Verse
suitable for Recitation.
Price 5/- ; Post Free from Bulletin Office, 5/4.
“Cbe Bulletin” Story Book
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
Australian
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
the Best Sbsrt Stories
of two Decastes.
nothing better typical
of Australian Letters.
VIVID
VIVID
VIVID
VIVID
BRIGHT
BRIGHT
BRIGHT
BRIGHT
RACY
RA&Y
RA'CY
RACY
Price 4/6 ; Post Free from Bulletin Office, 51-
tlie LXJKTG-S, tlxe THCROA.T, tUe VOICE.
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
M
3 C>t3 V
The Larykx, or organ o!
voice.
The Trachea or windpipe.
The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOTOfG,
and
Invaluable to
bINGBES
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered),
Coiitnin- NO cooaiu'e or other poison*ns dray . .
cm d BY ALL CHEMISTS, In Tins, 1s 6d ; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland—pest
free on receipt”” stops. Sydney Depot: 5 and * QUEEN’S PLACE, and FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO,
Melbourne, Agdnts.
THE RED PAGE.
Healthy Australian History.
GB. BARTON did well when he showed
in his part of the State History of New
• South Wales that convictism was but
an episode in the making of our nation ;
and that it was not exceptional. America suffered
more from the same cause in her early years.
Larger numbers of the scum of Britain, sturdy
beggars, masterless men, wastrels, rogues, and
malefactors, were sent over, to the Plantations of
America than ever reached Australian shores. It
may come to another to show that in Australia, even
as America, the true begilinings of national 1 ife were,
apart from, though co-incident with, the absorption
of that vomit. Free pioneers laid the foundation
of all that endures, and healthy growths of their
planting make the people and the institutions
which are. Healthy Australian history can only
be written front*such a standpoint as this.
When did our commerce first begin ? When
our agricultural and pastoral settlement, our
manufactures, our arts, our religious, educational,
political systems? By whom were they estab-
lished and by whom continued? It is answers to
such, questions as these which make up history,
and if these answers can be rendered graphic and
impressive, then is such history written as will be
easily learned and never forgotten.
The elements even in Australia are not always
unpicturesque, or sordid;-or tame. We have had
enough, perhaps, of Captain Cook, and Phillip is
overdone for ever in Sydney Palace Gardens.
Unhappy Flinders made his own record; the
little life of Lass went out in obscurity. And,
apart from the narrative of exploratory enter-
prise, the record of the first decade of .settlement
might well, in a history of the making of Aus-
tralia, be summarised in one page. But when did
men begin to fight for natural human rights, and
to settle in natural human hope? From those
dates the author of healthy history must make his
beginnings, and their development must be
his theme. They are not hard to find even
in the days when Sydney was “ gaol and barracks
mostly.” Within a decade of Phillip’s arrival
our first struggles begin, whose issues are of
more importance than all of bad or good that came
out of convictism. A little band of free settlers
fighting for what we consider rudimentary rights ;
a banditti convict-guard playing Pretorian busi-
ness over again to a gutter tune. One English
sailor Governor wishing himself in any pain of
death or hell rather than New South Wales ;
another content to draw his pay and let things
drift. Then Bligh, the fighting man, roaring out
to this miscreant and that, “You tremendous
blackguard ! ”, trying hard to do right and set the
free life of the colony on its infant feet, but finally
snared by the conspirators, and absolutely got rid
of, to Australians great and enduring loss. We
have scores of tales of that date, through which
the cat hisses and the fetters clank, but even in
“history” have we any fair account of the true
nation-makers of that time ?
Another foundation-stone was laid a few years
before the “Rebellion.” It was of Australia’s
commerce, the actual beginning of the business
which makes all the busy life of all our ports. It
was the battle of Robert Campbell, merchant.
He loaded up the Lady Barlow with Australian
produce, seal-skins, whale oil, and “tall spars
suitable for frigates’ masts,” sent her across to
London river, and awaited his account sales.
Instead, came a tale of the effective objections
raised by old John Gampany, and the sale of the
cargo in a foreign port. It was not deemed well
to encourage Australian commerce “lest the
people build navies, and become pirates.” (Now
it is not deemed well to allow an Australian navy
lest it lead to independence.) Yet Robert Camp
bell won in the end, and where is the story of
that fight and that winning ? It should be in
all our school readers.
In the story of John Macarthur and his sheep
(with King George at last cut out) there is also
much to make healthy history. Came it ever to
another man, poor and unaided, to oradle the sires
and the dams of the stock of a continent ? This
did John Macarthur, with much more , not quite so
worthy. And who, at that date, gave us the
orange and the vine, strangely neglecting the
olive?
Of Macquarie there is too much. Macquarie
put back the date of a free Australia full five-and-
twenty years. The histories we have tell us more
about the Rum Hospital than that work of retarda-
tion and degradation. Old Dr. Lang got Mac-
quarie’s measure in the “ Cimex Macquariensis ”
story. Gordon M‘Qrae hit the .humor of the tune
in his unpublished Comic History of Australia.
“ Ladies,” says the usher, to the mob of emanci-
pist females hustling at the door of the presence
chamber, • ‘ let me suggest that you go in, in the
order of your convictions'. ”
With Sir Thomas Brisbane the burly person-
ality of Dr. Lang begins to move influentially, de-
termined from the outset to justify his Australian
boast, “ Quorum pars inagna fui.” And, indeed,
a history of Australia which belittles or neglects,
him must be inaccurate or inadequate. Follows
that noble gentlewoman, Caroline Chisholm, who
should loom large in Australian history, as does
Florence Nightingale in that of England
ing in the good cause whose history is lost in the
sloughs. Sir Richard Bourke, facing the east
from the Sydney Domain gates to-day as he faced
all the inland west ‘in his time, resolute, just,
merciful. Sir George Gipps, never to be despised
however cordially detested. And then, to be
marked with a white stone for ever, the fight for
cleanly national life, when the war-ships on the
harbor trained their .guns on the anti-transporta-
tionists assembled in Mort’s store, and the
last of the convict ships at length shook out her
sails and bore her accursed 'Human freightage
away to the far west.
Quickly then came the fight for the Constitu-
tion. A capable historian could make that story
glow and burn. And what have we lost through
the untold tqle of the invasion of the diggings ?
It never has been told. Poor old Withers’ history
of Ballarat is a tame chronicle ; and Bendigo,
save in the Melbourne press of the time, has no
record. Yet think of Bendigo in the days when
...young Robert Cecil got off the coach,and mounted
the dogcart beside young Warden Pan ton, when
those men of all nations, and all armed, faced the
young warden, resolute but reasonable, at the
Camp, and demanded redress of wrongs which
none but men “blind as a fool’s heart” would
have imposed. Hill End and Lambing Flat would
furnish chapters succeeding for that story, which
still, from Mt. Morgan to Broken Hill and Broken
Hill to Kalgoorlie, goes on.
The settlement of the coast, the too rash occupa-
tion of the West, are not barren of noble interest
nor untinged of romance. The shearers’ wars, to
result eventually in the marvellous amelioration
of all the conditions of the life of the bush-workers,
are healthy, if considered in healthy mood ; the
bush-worker himself, the swagman, is a character-
istic and passing figure on the world’s face.
Federal accomplishments might well close a his-
tory of Australia in the present, and, though
Federal literature is so far turgid or dry, there has
been a healthy undercurrent of feeling amongst all
the masses of the people, and flashes of well-ex-
pressed noble emotion which, when things get in
proper focus, will illuminate the whole.
Also, there is in the present, destined, if our
race is true to its traditions, and its boasts, to
characterise this or the next decade—the artesian
water.
I have enumerated here but a few facts, and
accomplishments, mountain heads along the track
we have travelled, which ought to be fixed and
kept prominently in view. The mist, and the
mire below does not matter so much, is better, a
good deal of it, out of sight and forgotten. There
are others, doubtless, which will recur to many
minds, notably exploration with its endurance
and heroism, all details of which may be found, in'
Ernest Favene’s book. And the long battle with
the Blue Mountains, which Kendall has rescued
from oblivion. Also there are personalities,
heroic and worthy, which, in a history started on
a right foundation and with honest patriotic in-
tent, would drop into their natural places and
shine. But that this may be, it will be essential to
begin on things that have made, not marred our
history ; to seek out the true founders, the real
nation-makers, however humble or obscure, and
trace the thread of their effort down through all
the tangled web of adverse circumstances, until,
at length, they unite and form themselves the
web, which it is for us and those who follow us, to
weave true and roll out before the world’s face,
honest-wrought and clean, with the unmistake-
able colour of liberty, unbesmirched of humbug,
cant or fraud.
F. M.
The Literary Woman—and Man.
Creve Roe writes :
From the women-writers who have been discuss-
ing, in your columns, the Literary Woman and her
aspect towards the Literary Man, I gather that the
Literary Woman who wishes to make a passionate
thumb-mark on the milestones of life should, be
either not married at all, and evoke her
cryptogamic caricatures of men out of her own
virgin mind, or married to a disreputable husband,
who will be a living domestic model for the
villains in her stories. They also say, though
they differ slightly in detail, that the Literary
Man is rarely a fit mate for the Literary Woman.
Instances to the contrary will, of course, occVir to
any reader, but they are exceptions to the rule.
Both seem to have in their minds the picture of
an ideal husband. He must be clever in some
large, manly way, in which there is money to be
made, and fame amongst other men. He must
regard his wife with her genius as a gift of
Heaven to him, and be proud to be permitted to
kiss her ink-stained fingers when she has finished
the last verse of her poem, or the latest chapter of
her story. And if she should condescend to read
her work to him—as Moliere used to read his
comedies to his cook—dm must have sufficient
intelligence to express subdued, but not frenzied,
appreciation. He must be decent and presentable
on State occasions, and know enough of the
convenances of society not to fall over a chair when
he enters a drawing-room, or to mistake the
waiter for his Eitcellency the Governor. He
must drink a little, in a gentlemanly way, but
never drink so much a 3 would cause him
to drag his wife out of a quiet alcove
in whiah she might be talking earnestly
upon questions of the heart with some
brother writer. He must let her have her own
way, and if—through some grotesque accident —
they should happen to have children, he must look
after them and not allow them to worry her. The
children of her brain are more to her than the
children of her marriage, and her husband should
be aware of the fact. And when some cold-
blooded reptiles of editors return her manuscripts
he should console her, and say that it was all low
jealousy on their part, and take her out to dinner
and be proud of her generally.
The Literary Man is a horse of another colour.
I have known personally, or have been corres-
ponding intimately with, every Australian
Literary Man worth his salt during the last 20
years. Not one of them has had a Literary
Woman as a wife. And yet a Literary Man —I
object to the phrase, but let it go—has also his
ideals. He would like to marry a woman who
would be to him not only-a good comrade, but a
good critic as well. He would show her what he
had written, and if she said it was poor he would
smile with politeness and put his hat upon his head
and go out to read it to another woman with some
brains. It is the Other Woman that is the
salvation of the Literary Man. Just imagine :
He leaves his o\yn house, in which everything is
upside-down, and there is comfort nowhere, to
enter a cool drawing-room full of sweet quiet and
flowers. A lady is there with white unruffled
lace around her neck, and a robe of laburnum silk,
showing beneath its lower folds an under-robe of
the color of red wine. And there is a piano. And
she plays to him, plays the airs he loves. And
she tells him that she thinks the last poem he
wrote was too beautiful to be printed. And he
pretends to believe her. And she pretends to
believe that he believes her. And they are the
best comrades in the world. That is enough for
the Literary Man. His wife is a charming little
woman (wives of Literary men rarely run
to size) and understands him, and keeps
his creditors at bay when he has a
headache, and makes soup f®r him when he
is sick, and when necessity arises eats dripping
upon her bread instead of butter, and affects to
prefer the dripping, and says that the children
must be satisfied with bread and treacle for their
breakfast because their Father requires Beer, and
many similar things. But the Other Woman sits
in the melodious dusk and plays the piano.
Helen Jerome on the literary woman :
I differ with Mrs Lance Rawson as to the attraction
existing 1 between literary men and women. A literary
man rarely marries a literary woman. Look around us in
our own little centre ! Is it not the exception rather than
the rule to see two pen people of different sexes dipping
out of the same inkpot ? The fact is, the literary man
requires comfort, bodily comfort, from his helpmate. He
doesn’t want mental food in his home ; he wants a good
bracing dinner and a peaceful fireside, and no
“moods” from the wife of his bosom. Being the only
literary part of the concern, he has a monopoly of the
“ mood ” department. And she is a wise woman who
realises that. In the rare cas?s where literary men do
marry literary women there is a gradual dissatisfaction
between both parties—all owing to the “ mood question
again. Perpetual mental concentration does tend to
make one “ cranky,” especially a nervous woman, whose
soul is dragged two ways. It is always wiser for such
a woman to marry a healthy minded man, fairly common-
place, but always loving her, That is her only chance.
To come to the question which Frank R. plaintively
remarks “ has vanished from present day fiction ” —the
baby question ! The woman-poet writes much and many
“ baby-verses,” until her own baby arrives. Then she is
silent on that subject—only because she feels so intensely
the joy of motherhood, the poetry of babyhood, that ex-
pression becomes impossible. This applies to woman-
writers on all heart-questions. The world may banish
that widely established idea that she sneaks in her own
heart-aches between the lines. She doesn’t! It is the
one subject on which she is silent; perhaps not so much
from choice as from necessity.
Re “Refractory Rhymes,” E. Wilson Dobbs :
During the early ’6o’s many English papers—including
the staid Athenceum—fr&ve themselves over to the —shall
I say—frivolity of publishing such like tours deforce. In
the pages of your regretted “ Bookfellow,” and in “The
Red Page ” which also cultivates faculty for
“ regular and rhymed rhythms ” (to use Francis Adams’
alliterative phrase), similar references have been
’found from time to time—as in the'par. 11/10/’O2.
The only other word put forward, as rhyming with
“chimney,” that I know of, occurs in “The Mfelcome
Guest,” for Nov. 9th, 1861 :
“ Sir, I hope it’s no crime
To send you the rhyme,
Though you say there none is for chimney :
To prove it’s not true,
As stated by you.
Know this, sir, I’ve found it in Rhymney.”
Unfortunately, however, this reference to some mines in
Wales, although seemingly rhyming, does not really, as
the Welsh folk pronounce it Rhumney.
Similarly the far-fetched rhymes (so-called) for
“ month,” such as the Indian exotic “ Grunth” (the sacred
book of the Sikhs), and the word “ Lonth ” (meaning lip),
when scientifically translettered are quite different in
sound-value from “ month.” For the “th ” of the Indian
words is dental, whereas the Erlglish “th ” is lingual,
and there are further phonetic divergencies. Other well-
known inventions were to make an ordinal out of a car-
dinal numeral, and talk about “ raising n to the (x plus 1)
th,” or “ raising binomials to the(n plus 1) th,” attributed
to Drs. Donaldson and Whewell. Prof. Skeat also brought
into service Thackeray's Phil Fogarty of “the fighting
onety-oneth,” and there are the lisping versions, “ d unth,”
“ onth,” and “ wunth ” (for “ dunce ” and “ once ”) also
suggested. Another way is by elision, like Christina
Rossetti, did in her “ Sing Song ” :
“ How many weeks in a month?
Four as the swift moon runn’th ; ”
to which could be added “ shunn’th,” “ sptinn’th,"
“ stunn’th,” and so on, even to “ gerund’th,” and finally
“ none’th." Naturally there are a great number of
English words rhymeless—albeit, Walker has a dictionary
supplying so-called rhymes for a number of these, and
“allowable rhymes” for many more. But as he, for
instance, makes “avenge” rhyme with “revenge,”
he stultifies all his supposed rules. The following
are a few other simple English words for which no
satisfactory rhymes can be found (proper names and
foreign words barred) : bilge, coif, oulm, cusp, fugue,
gulf, have, oblige, orange, scarce, silver, and widow. As
to “orange”—a hill near Abergavemy, “The Blorenge,”
and the name of “ Gorringe.” in Sussex, have been sub-
mitted, but are inadmissible, so are “door-hinge” and
“more range.” The word “porringer”—likewise con-
sidered rhymeless—has been also used in some Jacobean
lines, in this connection :
“ The second James a daughter had,
Too fine to lick a porringer ;
He sought for her a noble lad
And gave the Prince of Orange, her."
And there are, of course, others.
Le Roux, a French critic thus discusses Zola :
Zola is a representative of Latin culture, and for that
very reason he is not a representative of French culture.
■Neither is he a Frenchman in race or spirit. He is one
of those Mediterraneans by descent whose homes are in
the seaports—Naples, Marseilles, Barcelona —merchants
and artists, for many generations in touch with various
cultures. In 1870, when the very children of France
served their country, Zola, then a young man, felt no
desire to battle for her.
Men are no more the puppets either of heredity, as Zola
would have us believe ; or of Providence, as Bossuet tries
to show. Man is neither angel nor beast.
Zola is not immoral. He is gross, but the grossness of
Zola is never enticing. He is no more immoral than filth
is immoral in itself.
Zola does not know women. He has the attitude of an
anchorite who fears them, and revenges himself upon
them. Zola does not recognise that love is a means not
an end. The type of woman portrayed in “Nana” he
knew only at second-hand, from the words of other men,
but this work and “La Debacle ” are the most popular in
America. It is unfair to place these books in the hands
of young Americans of both sexes, as has been done, and
let them form a false judgment of France.
Zola is'not an observer of life, but he is a great poet in
the sense that the prophets #f ancient Israel were great
poets, seeing evil and crying out against it mightily.
He sees phantoms, not realities.
Dr. Douglas Hyde, George Moore, and W. B.
Yeats are protesting in England at the desecra-
tion of what is popularly but incorrectly called
the Hill of Tara. Laborers dig and shovel among
the mounds without any supervision, at t ie insti-
gation of a sect which believes the English to be
descended from the Ten Lost Tribe* (the alleged
Lost Tribes) and who expect to find the Ark of the
Covenant under Ireland’s historic hill.
“The Misdemeanors of Nancy” (Angus and
Robertson, Melbourne and Sydney) is a daintily-
printed series of short stories by Eleanor Hoyt,
one of th.e best-known of American writers of
genre of to-day. With a graceful and dainty
style, Eleanor Hoyt contrives to invest a vetry
slight theme with much charm and interest.
Effective binding and well-printed plates, from
drawings by Penrhyn Staid a ws, help the volume
considerably. A. & R.’ are the publishers for
Australia.
S.T.S.: Whatever is “Matchbox” up to making
“ Lazarus and Dives ” rhyme with honored
wives” (B. 4/10/’02)? These classical mantraps
were prettily set forth, years ago, in the Dublin
University magazine:
Back to youth I seem to glide, as
I recall those peaceful scenes,
When we quoted Thucydides,
Or recited Demosthenes.
Sobbing slow, like summer tides
Flow thy verses, Euripides !
Lavington Grlyde, a scholar of the old times (and
one of the best Treasurers S.A. ever had), used to
tell of a lecturer who went astray and was cor-
rected thus:
When next you lecture, if you please,
Don’t call the man Aristides.
The name, you know, should rhyme with fiaes,
So please to call it Aristides.
There was a country Literary Society which was
delighted with this satire, and asked for a copy.
But later on they were discovered to be repeating
it with fides as a monosyllable (to rhyme with
“slides”), and Aris tides to match.


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
SYDNEY.
NPDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
M‘DOXJG-A.LL BROS., O Spring Street, Sydney.
AGENTS: ■ „ . ..
Z. L. & M. A. Co., Ltd., Australia and New Zealand : Strachan, Cheedle & Co., Adelaide; J* B. Curran, Hobart
SKINS
SEND ALL SKINS TO
Kangaroo,
Wallaby,
Rabbit,
Opossum.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY,
The l.eirifin <J Salesmen. Fall Values anil Quick Returns.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: It PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 Per Cent, to the Growers
We are the Only Selling Broken who do not Charge \d. per lb. to the Buyers.
Liberal Advances,
Accurate Valuations,
When required.
WOOL
Selling: Brokers.
PROMPT
RETURNS A
SPECIALITY.
HARRISON, JONES & DEVLIN, Ltd
Special Attention to
details.
Weights carefully
taken.
PvSnAinole having over 30 Years
rnnuipclla Experience Conduct
Ail Wool Sales.
Offices and Stores:
Circular Quay
Sydney.
o//
Crozine Blacking
■4
is a waterproof polish that produces a brilliant and permanent
gloss, which will not rub off. Shoes polished with “ Crozine
Blacking ” wear long, because it is an oil dressing, which softens
the leather. “ Crozine Blacking ”is guaranteed to be absolutely
free from all harmful substances, and will be found to be the
most satisfactory dressing made for all walking boots and shoes.
Sold almost everywhere. If not found, write at once to
C. L. HAITMAWAY £* SONS, Boston, Mass., U.SA.
"Cant B Beat
Briar Root Pipes
OuABWf EED
NOT TO
CRACK
OR
BURN
LATEST MOST
UP TO DATE SHAPES
1
U
Quality not better in a G-uinea Pipe.
£6araQt€€.
Should any of our Celebrated C. 8.8. Pipes crack or burn a new one will
be exchanged for it immediately on application.
When Ordering:, Please Mention Shape of Pipe Required.
C. 8.8.
'c.8.8.
0.8.8. Pipe, Sterling Silver Mount, 2/6
each.
C. 8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, with Ster-
ling Silver Mount, polished Vulcanite
Mouthpiece, in Morocco Leather
Case, 4/- each.
C. 8.8, Meerchaum Pipe, guaranteed
genuine, Sterling Silver Screw, Best
Quality Mouthpiece, Morocco Gold-
lined Case, 21/- each.
0.8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, Sterling
Silver Mounted Rim and Band, in
Morocco Gold-lined Leather Case,
8/6 each.
0.8.8. Presentation Companion, con-
taining two Silver Mounted, hand-
finished Pipes, Superior Quality
Mouthpieces, Red Morocco Gold-
lined Case, 15/6 each.
C. 8.8.
C. 8.8?
fXOJVroFBLADE
SffOM/VG &1/A/2D
Use the
Can't-B-Beat
i Safety Razor
Shave every morning with
absolute ease, comfort,
and security . . .
easy for anybody. It
takes months, yes, yearsof
practice, and few during
the period escape many
and serious cuts. Even
with experience, despite
care, cuts may be inflicted.
Particularly Useful at Sea.
PRICE COMPLETE, in Case .. .. ss. 9d.
In Leather Case, with Extra Blade .. Bs. 9d.
EXTRA BLADES 2s. 3d.
every Razor Guaranteed and Set ready for use.
TOILET REQUISITES—Lowest Price at . . .
Sfitfr
%47*
M770/7
GROUND
Can’t-B-Beat
Razors are manufactured from
the very finest English Razor
Steel, and warranted ground by the most expert
workmen in the world.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, £-inch .. 4s. 9d.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, f-inch .. 58. 3d.
Oan’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, f-inch .. ss. 9d.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, |-inch .. 6s. 3d.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, with ivory handle.. 108. 6d.
Presentation Case—containing Two
Can’t-B-Beat Razors, ivory handles .. 218.
C. Brown & Sons’ Hair-Clippers, 5s each. Victory
Cream Shaving Soap, 3d tablet. Shaving Brushes,
6d, 9d, Is, 1s 6d, 2s, 2s 6d, Bs, 8s 6d each.
Strops.
“ The Victory,” 2s each. Gant-B-Beat
Razor Strop, recommended by all the
leading hairdressers, 3s 6d each,
guaranteed or money returned.
Satisfaction
MICK SIMMONS
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
MOIR’S
KIPPER PASTE.
In Tins about 2 ozs. and 4 ozs.
Manufacturers i
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON ABERDEEN & SEVILLE.
Head Office 9 & 10, Gt. Tower Street, London E.C.
STRONG, VIGOROUS NEN
Every man knows how false have been the claims of QUACKS, who promise to cure him with DRUGS.
DRUGS never Cure Weakness, never stop the drain of Vitality, never Cure a Weak Stomach (they cause a good
many). Drugs excite, but they have no lasting effect, no substantial strength in them ; hence they never cure.
There is only one oertain way to Restore Vigor, to Renew Strength, to cure LAME BACK, NERVOUS-
NESS, VARICOCELE, DEBILITY, RHEUMATISM, WEAK KIDNEYS, and in fact all Chronic Ailments.
That way is to strengthen the parts with a Steady, Soothing, Invigorating Current of Electricity, given to you while
you sleep.
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
Gives Strength Direct from Nature. It develops all the Vital Organs and renews the Vigor. It will
permanently cure the Worst Case of Weakuess in three months after every other Remedy has failed.
STOP DRUGGING, and try it. You will thank us for thus urging you. It will lay the foundation
for your future happiness.
AN OLD CASE.
Marine Department, Edward-st., BRISBANE.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
Dear Sirs, —I suffered for a long time from general weak-
ness, debility, and nervous exhaustion. I tried everything—
change of climate, etc. —but your belt gave me the first real
relief I ever had, and ultimately cured me.
I can never thank you enough for what vou have done for
me. Yours truly, JOHN KING.
A RAILROAD MAN SAYS.
Your Belt cured me of dyspepsia, and I can now eat with
pleasure. All kinds of foods digest well, and my back and
kidneys feel the benefits of the Electric Current. I have been
making 1200 miles a week for about 6 weeks now, and I have
already recommended your Belt to several of my friends.
ALBURY. S. A. KAYE.
Write for Free Book.
For the benefit of all persons interested in this Grand Remedy, we publish
a Beautifully-Illustrated Book, giving- cuts, and showing how we apply
ELECTRICITY in all CHRONIC AILMENTS. It gives also many names of people cured. Write for it. You may find the names of
some of your friends in it. If you will get our book, read it carefully, and send us a statement of your case. We will send you a
WRITTEN DIAGNOSIS, which will NOT COST von a farthing. Don’t miss this grand opDortumty. Remember. NO CHARGES
WHATEVER. " \ , v “ '
SJ.<
r^t
v4S
■V /.
r<:
SB
/s
m
I
M
The Dr. McLaughlin Co
Inside a month your Belt has restored me to strength. Not only myself,
but it has performed a miracle in my wife’s condition of health. For years
her back pained her terribly. One night’s wear drove the pain entirely
away. As a Salvation Army man of eighteen years’ standing, I am pretty
well known, and I want others to know what your grand Belt can do.
Yours, faithfully,
ILLABO, N.S.W.
S. JEWELL.
The Or- McLaughlin |}o.
85 King St., Sydney
Melbourne Offices : w
167 E SWANSTON STREET.


(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
\
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
NOW OPEN.
Melbourne C.
To Tattersall,
Please allot me
£
• I
• •
Nov.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
; shares in tlie above.
Name -
Address
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“ TATTERS ALL,”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend
or acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the appli-
cation and securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEOItGK
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will plea«e
request Bank to advise GEORGIA ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. doing business with Tasmania.
Melbourne C. Special.
Drawn Morning of the Race
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To Tatter sail,
Please allot me_
shares in the above.
Name
Address ___
Melbourne 0. Nov. 4.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To Tattersall,
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name-
Address
£ : :
Sandhurst'
To Tattersall,
Please allot
C. Nov. 26
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
me shares in the above.
Name
Address


Cheapest House In A etralla for EDISON
Phonographs * Records
“BIJOU,” with 6 Records £1 10 0
EDISON “STANDARD,” with 12 Records .. 5 10 0
EDISON “ HOME,” with 21 Records .. .. 8 10 0
COMBINATION A1 “GRAND,” taking both
Large and Small Records, with 12 Records, 6
Concert (5in.) Records and Large Horn .. 10 10 0
EDISON RECORDS, English and American,
per dozen 10 0
CONCERT (5in.) RECORDS, per dozen.. .. 8 0 0
Send for Splendid New Illustrated Catalogue containing
5000 Selections to choose from. Electric Fans, with
Battery, £5 ; Electric Bike Lamps, 21s ; Flash Lights,
Scarf Pin Lights, 10s 6d ; Vapour Bath Cabinets, 20s; &c.,
Free.
eooias can be posted to any address. Machines, care-
fully packed ana o warded to any part of Australasia.
REEVES & OO.,
KING WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
I’ll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
(Japillarine
Posted (under cover)
> to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Prloe, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
\
The Retult.
CRAIG & AITKEIM. N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House, 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
w
Beauty, splendor, elegance! Rich
and heavy braids! Long and flowing
tresses!
Ayer’s Hair Vigor feeds the hair
and makes it grow long and heavy. It
stops falling of the hair, completely
cures dandruff, and keeps the scalp
clean and healthy.
As a dressing for the hair you will
certainly be greatly pleased with it.
Ayer's Hair Vigor
You can always rely upon it for
restoring color to your gray hair, all
the full, rich color it had in early life.
There is no doubt about this. You
need have no fear of being disap-
pointed. We speak with a knowledge
that covers over fifty years of experi-
ence with this valuable preparation.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J C. Ayer & Co., Lowell. Mass.. U.S. A.
Write To-Day.
Send
Postal Note.
G
IYEN
AWAY
...to...
Advertise our
Ostrich
Tips.
2/6
The Bunch
Post Free.
3 Black Tips with Ospreys. A Marvel of Cheapness.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
THE FINEST TONIC
FERBRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FERBRAVAIS
FERBRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blingthc constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET. — “A beautiful and interesting
preparation.”
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-“J«haj all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth."
SOl.D BY CHEMISTS AM. THE WOHI.D OVER.
WHOLESALE: Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
WCl
i i S3
Rupture
| Dr.Pierce’s ElcctricTruss
is a Marvel. Nothing like
it. Best Retainer on earth
and a Genuine Cure tor Rupture.
World renowned. 27 improvem’ts.
If ruptured, send a stamp, (any
sort), for new “Booklet No. 1.’
MAGNETIC E. TRUSS CO., 206 Post Street, San
Francisco, U.S. A.; W. H. Sou I & Co. , Agents, Sydney.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
t.t/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
3. M0UN7CASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849.
For Lite Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand,
_A.-t Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per cent,
of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.O., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker; J. Abbott, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.O. ; P E Winchcombe, Esq., M.P.
General Manager and Actuary—Richard Teecb, F.I. A., F.F. A., F.S.S. „ ,
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
wuuQrV.
Commercial
Buggy,
£14 108,
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-sfc.,
SYDNEY.
tgiT Send for a
Catalogue.
Bent Shaft Sulkies,
£10 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles.
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £8 10s.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
UHlllir
WHOLESALE
Dletri touting Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & CO.,
8YDNEY.
Victoria —
j. e. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia—
Hart, Lawrence & Oo.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
, Western Australia — ®
Lionel Samson & 8on,
| Fremantle
\ Queensland—
, Thos. Brown & Sons, Ld.
! Brisbane
Burns, Phiip & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John MoKenzie A Oo.,
Launoeston
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin & Oo.
Dunedin, Wellington
and Ohristohuroh.
WINCHESTER
METALLIC CARTRIDGES.
URING our 30 years oFgun making, we have
discovered many things about ammunition that
no one could learn in any other way. Our
discoveries in this line, together with years of
experience manufacturing ammunition, enable us
to embody many fine points in Winchester
Metallic Cartridges for rifles and revolvers which make them
superior in many ways to all other brands upon the market.
Winchester cartridges in all calibers are accurate, sure-fire
and exact in size; being made and loaded in a modern
manner by skilled experts. If you want the best
INSIST UPON HAVING WINCHESTER MAKE OF CARTRIDGES.
WE STOCK ALL
WINCHESTER GOODS.
M‘LEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd.
ELIZABETH ST., flELBOURNE ; GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
The Australian Commission Agency Co.
IS IN CONSTANT COMMUNICATION WITH
“TATTERSALL,” care of GEO. ADAMS, HOBART.
Write or call. When writing enclose
Addressed Envelope and Stamp.
Offices: 101 Swanston St„ flelbourne.
THE WORLD’S GRANDEST
CIGARETTE
W6 fXPRpSS
(VIRGINIA GRADE)
No. 555
Absolutely Unique in Quality.
A Revelation to all Cigarette Smokers.
No. 999
In the event of your being unable to purchase State Express Cigarettes from local Tobacconists,
. . , write to . . .
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Merchants, Pitt=st., Sydney.
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO., 44 Worship Street, London, England.
Love Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Cup of Bliss.
The reddest rose, the bluest violet,
Take them and bray them in a golden jar;
Drip in the clearest dewdr.ops, nor forget
Some faintest scent from where old shadows are,
Nor the night-laughter where the creek is loud,
Nor that far voice when all the silence grieves ;
Stir these with motion of the softest cloud,
Of winds that run along the sunny leaves,
Then, last, add glances of the moonlit stream,
Pink tremblings from the edges of the dawn,
A dash of rapture only youth dare dream,
And the dear pang it leaves when it is gone.
Pour now, and drink. Is it the cup of bliss ?
Thou canst not, then, remember Love’s first kiss.
N.s.w.
MAGGIE SULLIVAN.
Meeting.
What sorrow is in life, to know that you
Steal by these dim ways when the dusk has waned
Into a night reluctant and profaned;
A creature of night, whom earlier I knew,
So fair that all your life’s way seemed astrew
With lilies, and your Heaven almost attained.
By what fierce mood of God was it ordained,
Poor heart, that you were thus to sin and rue ?
Ah me ! the hint and challenge of your eyes;
Vague unremembered kisses that consume
Your soul in nights calamitous; and the gloom
Of mirth which stirs the sullen pain that lies
Within your heart, so lorn and dispossessed.
Nay, do not weep—yet weep, for that were Dost.
THOROLD DALRYMPLE.
A Love Song.
I love her eyes,
Her glorious haunting eyes,
That like twin stars from dusky western skies
Gaze wistfully into the breaking dawn
Of womanhood and all the years unknown.
Alas, those eyes!
I love her hands,
Her deft and busy hands,
Whose dainty fingers weave immortal bands
Of willing thraldom whereso’er they twine,
With witching touch around this heart of mine.
Those gentle hands!
I love her lips,
Her fragrant dewy lips,
Red buds, whence Love his honeyed virtue sips,
That tremble, pout and sigh, yet dare not frame
The simple “Yes” for very maiden shame.—
Ah me ! those lips !
But Love is vain,
Regrets are doubly vain,
The reachless stars of morning mock my pain
The hands elude me. Her sweet lips will never
To mine respond. Yet must I love for ever,
Though Love is vain ?
A.
The Honeymoon.
Did it last but a month? it was ours for that
while;
To be lost with a frown, to be gained with a smile.
Such a bower of roses, such gardens of laughter,
And such moonlight and starlight, with love to
come after.
White walls shutting out all the world and its
prying,
And outside the waste and the desert winds
sighing.
If by dawning the lean wolves crept close to the
gate,
Did we hear them or heed them —forerunners of
Fate?
Not we ! Just one strong arm drew closer ; that’s
all!
We were safe in the sweep of that magical wall;
And if the night breezes blew cold o’er our bliss,
Why, we changed their intent to the warmth of a
kiss.
Oh, soft arms ! A month you were tender and
clinging—
A month of the rose and the nightingale’s singing.
And now one hand is to the bar of the
gates
In the desert outside. How I wonder what waits!
Q.
M. BURKINSHAW.
Lust and Love.
To-night Lust died of satiety !
A week ago the very same ;
I cannot count his every death,
But only know the hollow pain
Accompanying the aftermath.
And now his dread black corse drags on
Beside my shuddering soul alway ;
And I am doomed, I know full well,
To suffer all its quick decay—
A pain unknown outside of Hell,
And shall he live again ? Ah, no !
Out of my life a great star burns,
And shoots a ray athwart the gate,
That man may pass the day he learns
A Love, white and immaculate.
W.A.
L. L. S.


TRADE MARK
Fox Bros. & Co., Ltd., warn
the Public that their Trade
Mark consists
ONLY
of the word
FOX
which is a guarantee of sound-
ness of material and Quality
of Dye of all
Worsted Coatings,
Serges i tweeds
on which it is stamped.
As the result of many years
of experience
fox’s Pure Mgo Dye
is recognised as the best in the
market. All FOX'S standard
cloths are stamped every two
yards on the back
FOX
PURE INDIGO
and without this stamp are
not genuine. These celebrated
serges can be obtained from the
leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Colonies.
FOX BROS. & Co., Ltd.,
Wellington, Somerset, Eng.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
$3?"“ Evert Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
EVERY MAN IS
More or less interested in the curative powers of
MEDICAL GALVANISM and the proper method of
applying this wonderful agent. Before purchasing
Electric Belts or Batteries send for our valuable FREE
BOOK entitled “ TIIE MODERN TREATMENT OF
DISEASE BY ELECTRICITY.” It will tell you what
you ought to know, and may save 3'ou time, money
and disappointment. Address—
ARTHUR HALE & SON,
44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BHOHOHITIS,
DIARHHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to .take abroad with me, as likely to ba
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, 1 should say Chlorodine. I never travel
without it and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
gYntst^
C BOOK
Address.— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
WOOL. PRODUCE. GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
ACT -A.S SBLLIKTG- BROKERS OKTLY.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING
THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
'(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
• will be 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb | 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
. under ; Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing.
Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement, is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney
21, 23 King Street;, Melbourne.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES . . .
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Bteam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pumps, Turbine Fans.
(Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
Messrs. GREENWOOD & BATLEY LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors, Pumps, etc.
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
Insulated Cables, Wires, Tapes, eto.
4k
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
cure-alls.
Vigor and Strength for all who
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Eoyal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 1886, has so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable cases
Be the equal of your fellow man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
Seels. tb.e Truth, it; cost;s KTothiug!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, cor. Russell & Collins Sts., Melbourne.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
IHBRACUa
The popular “plain home talk.”
By Db. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Ohromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou”
which ( I hov°fppi n,r CCUr -° the m ;P. ds of young and old/but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chanters
t 0 ’ nnu .™ erable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new’ 1902 edition just arrived.
~S ATI SI ACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged
o'oth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE. P 1
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy • l s fid nnst
Practical Palmistry (latest), post ls 6d. ’ l sc '
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards illns
Is ; post ls 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s fid posted'
Beauty’s Secrets, post free ls. Maria Monk Is 9d
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free ls. ’
The Art ok Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted. *
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), ls 3d post
Every Man I-lis Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor Is
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s fid-
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book op Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post ls 3d.
How to Dance, new work, ls posted. Camille Is 3d
Secret History of the Court of England, 1 fi post free’
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., is 6d posted’
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history)’ ls 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls 3d post free.’
How TO Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest sones
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. nos ted
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. S\ppho Is ’
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted ’ ’
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid’
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d. 1
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted. ‘ ’
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
1 oltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
liiE Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
aapoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted
Send for my Illustrated Big: Book
Catalogue-post free anywhere.
SIR ROSiftT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
Dr. J. W. GIBBS’
. . Electric Massage Rollers . .
For use on Face and Body.
For NERVOUS HEADACHES
NEURALGIA and RHEUMATISM
—a specific. Removes Wrinkles.
Gold, 21/- Silver, 16/-
Post Free. Pamphlets Free.
AMERICAN AGENCY COMPANY,
Box 440, G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
'’ATEHT.
Y
UVEezra.
Mention
this
Paper.
AND
--- . , WOMEN
l Can obtain strength and vigor
I by the use of DK. PIERCE'S
ELECTRIC BELT.” A Won-
derful Restorative. The most
Scientific Electrical Appliance
ever made. Drugs do not cure.
This Belt does. Send stamp (any sort)
for “Bupklst No. 2.” i(E7“ Write to-day.
Pierce Electric Co., 206 Post st.
fj., tt r» *vlvC I.lCvtrivr l/Ui) iaUD JlOSu bt.
S»u 1 raneisco,U. S. A. ., W. H. Soul & Co-jAffts. Sydney
waV iVjiojvJ
£
Vifevavy,
ainlJ
GOUT
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO,
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, PitouT & C 0... 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GRIMAULT & Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdestkk & Tkuman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. <fc Is. 6d.
N-B. —Insist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Health,
Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
X)6 RX CORO’s
,tSSE^ cE °f u \ f
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
F. H. Paulding: & Co., 16 O’Ccnnell St., Sydney.
jiir§i *
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
■ Completely overcome Deafness
Band Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
r to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. 0
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.


A
*8
®@ © &
mm
fM Crown
Whisky
$
Hr-*-':
A Lesson Worth Learnin
Hsepatitis and Dyspeptic Misery.
“A BLESSING TO WORK & LIVE.”
The Case of
Mrs. B. EAGAR.
(Foe the Redfem Times.)
It is impossible to read the following
statement of the condition of things de-
scribed by Mrs. Bertha Eagar, of No. 145
Walker-street, Redfern, without being
struck by certain phases and facts in her re-
cital. Carrying her memory back eleven
years, Mrs. Eagar said :
“ It is that length of time since I was re-
leased from a complaint of such great ob-
stinacy that there was every reason to think
otru° U nevei ! be the same woman again.
Why I say this is because my sufferings ex-
tended over a period of six months or
more, and half that time I was under the
care of a doctor.”
What complaint was he treating you
tor?” asked our reporter.
“My ailments were as numerous as they
were difficult to cope with, but I am of
opinion that they were occasioned by a dis-
eased state of my liver. Be that as it may,
I know that indigestion was one of the prin-
cipal features of my illness, and I became so
seriously affected by it that before long I
was a completely helpleis invalid. When I
iad been taking medicines prescribed by my
physician til! I knew it was useless to drink
any more I did not know what to do next
:or I was so feeble that I could not walk
across the flom-. It seemed a cruel thing to
throw so much money away, and waste so
much time for nothing, but when people are
id, you know, they will spend their last
penny, it necessary, in buying things which
they expect to do them good. And that is
the very reason why I consider it my duty
to divulge to all mankind the fact that it
was only through using Clements Tonic at
ihe eleventh hour that my awful sufferings
were checked. Through reading a kindly-
disposeu person’s testimonial I started tak-
ing it, and ever since those words appeared
before me I have regarded them with as
much respect as though they had consti-
tuted a message from an angel above. When
, c °me to consider how much agony I en-
dured I am devoutly thankful that the right
”emedy came at last.”
; u TTn<! ;fc after eating that you felt so
was 'w’Jf y ° U t 0 ca]l it eating, it
’ 1 a ppetite was so very nuieklv
appeased that I could not take even a
Heht d£ meal ' I Tvvo or three mouthfuls of
light diet we e always enough, and then the
most unmerciful pains in the chest started
Sen move,??' \b' Y "£ aish you would have
ceen moved, as the suffocating sensations in
fch H U ? deSp ? rate effol ' ts to get my
bieaththat an onlooker would have 8 feared
i was going to choke. A fearful state of
weakness was brought about, and I was
thl” d!!i ed t 0 h . e down the greater part of
being ou’t i lousello!d duties, of course,
ueing out of the question so far as T
concerned. A dreadful aching pa i n settled
if ifcs w-to
oestroy all the pleasures in life, and it cer-
careworn h CeO ? f ° r 1 felfc and
th nl t yo ' ld ex Pression. This state of
Sen I h aS l b f ad e T ,gh in the da y fc i>«e, but
itnLl h (lt ,°u g ° thr ° U S h the same horrors
* 01 kh e want of sleep, my sorrowful
£* imagined.
"me mvfkin " 5 ' 'rr- and in ,:h ' ; mean-
#.;“ e J skl ? clianged to a pallid hue, while
Mv lins 161 1 ,£ Qt 1 tdie m °re my limbs ached.
•don!l P ? i‘ d iaiU S were as white as if my
■aised mv? “iTi to wafcer > aud when I
tr.’f l + y h ,? ad 1 became quite giddy. If I
!ouTdn o o r l V ,llStairSlfelfcso dazed that I
faST* my eye,, ,vhich S „e™ly
uterine olte “ alld a, if I were
uttering from a severe cold. Acute mins
‘vhile k the e b l UVeeU my slloulde r-bladesftoo,
ful as H ie ? , a f l ' oss *»y loins were as pain-
}. da f fche y Coldd be. My mouth was never
was a° m st ; i aSte bitfcer as « all ' a * d there
sticky substance over my tongue
which I could never wash off, these two ad-
verse elements combined making me con-
tinually feel sick.”
“ How did your nervous system bear up
against all this ? ”
“ Ver y well for a time, and then my
nerves gave way quite suddenly. The least
excitement produced a fit of trembling, my
mind also being agitated on the slightest
provocation. But, so far as that goes, my
brain always seemed to be in a restless state,
lor if I got an hour or two’s doze, it in-
variably meant that I had some kind of ugly
dream, the recollection of which frightened
me on awaking.”
. “ You certainly had very little comfort in
liie at that Mrs. Eaga^”
“ There was really nothing left for me to
live for, and the melancholy thoughts with
which I was seized through my heart pal-
pita ting very badly made me- heartily sick
and tired of everything ; but when I read
about Clements Tonic I thought I might at
least get a little better if X tried it, and I
think my present appearance speaks for it-
self. When my recovery began it was by
acquiring an.appetite through the use of
Clements lonic, and already that medicine
had done me more service than all the other
decoctions put together, because there was
an inward sense of comfort after my food
which told me that digestion was bein* pro-
perly performed. Ido not wish you to be-
lieve that this wonderful amount of. relief
came, instantly, because such a thing, - con-
sidering the plight I was in, would be im-
possible, but it was certainly the speedy and
direct result of taking Clements Tonic, and,
moreover, I was soon sufficiently eased from
headaches and pains to admit of sound
sleep helping me towards the goal I desired
to reach. The medicine I was taking suited
my complaints splendidly, as the fearful
pains in my chest diminished as each dose
ol Clements Tonic was taken, while flatu-
lence and giddiness were remedied quite
mysteriously. Drowsiness and despondency
were wafted away by the medicine, which
was likewise bracing together my shattered
nerves, and its regulating powers had a
beneficial effect which I have enjoyed up to
the present day. My sldu soon became
clear and bright, which that
Clements Tonic had a more powerful in-
fluence over my blood than any physic I had
hitherto purchased, and the unpleasant taste
was altogether removed from my mouth. It
did not take a great deal of Clements Tonic
to rid me of those wearying aches which had
come upon me through excessive weakness,
and when they were gone there was nothin*
to stop me from doing my housework with
as much activity and cheerfulness as eva\
indeed, it was a blessing to work and live
for before my last bottle of Clements Tonic
was finished X was well and sound in every
respect, and not one of my old' ailments has
troubled me since. A lesson like mine
ke taught all invalids, so you can
chocs?” 1680 W ° rdS in any way: >' ou
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
in*’ iS EUTI of , Eaoar > of I^6 Walker-street, Redfern
in the State of New South Wales fnin’
monwealth of Australia, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have careful]/ read
the annexed document, consisting of four
folios, and consecutively numbered from one
inrl fOU that contains and is a true
and faithful account of my illness and
cure by Clements Tonic; also contains
my full permission to publish in any wav m,
statements—which I give voluntarily, without
receiving any payment; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to l>e
Act 6 ’l9f”/ by Vlrtue the provisions of the Oath»
n;mh 3 n' ibed . a i I r d declared at Redfern, this twenty-
amiV.before me?' th ° UBand nine hundred
'a
A. MOLES, J.p.
AUSTRALIAN
ENEStAL ELECTRIC
COMPANY,
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, Melbourne and Sydney
Sales of Thomson Recording
Wattmeters
Year.
1894
1895
1896
1897
1898
1899
1900
1901
Number Sold.
16,900
23.600
26.600
36,300
54,0u0
80.500
90,100
99.500
Adopted by the Victorian Government as
Standard. General Electric Incandescent
Lamps, Motors, Dynamos, and all other
Electric Machinery and Supplies are also
Standard and The Best
The VOLCANIC
CRATING
MACHINE
KK
n s
d||tffliul|lniuiuuiiiii|iiiuiuitiu<iuuiiiiit|n
A\
W. JAMES, Proprietor,
(irc&t
Saving HOTELKEEPERS^
” CAFE PROPRIETORS, „ P .
WATERS of the Highest Quality
produced with the utmost rapidity
WITHOUT SKILLED LABOR.
Absolutely the best and simplest
Machine in the market.
Bm~ Price
£3O
TUBES CONTAIN 57tbs. GAS.
CAPACITY OP WATER CYLINDERS, lOGals.
VALVE ACTS. AUTOMATICALLY.
Write for Descriptive Pamphlets with Testimonials
from people who have used the Machine Ur years.
Office : 101 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Depots 130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
GOOD
HAI R Fort . ALL [
&kst&
&
&
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Deoay.Promotijjfr the Growth, and civino- Lustre
Thin TRY it* y p” !' 18 falli off > TRY'IT. °lfit is
Ihin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE
OOF 0 OF M THE I HF'Yn RM ’i ln ? all p * A RASITICAr.
A HAIR A t L 0 ' Rs' ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively
nee, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra. *
Washington 11. Soul & Go.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT
HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE
Sold by all Chemists, and by
HAIR.
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
s. FREEMAN * SONS [JMITEP
Millers, Manufactnrers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES :
BAKING POWDER
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICK IF*
EX BllcKiNr S ° AP ' BLUE (Bog or s ‘< u “ re >-
m^,? LACKING - VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
WYNYAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
ENNESB
CURED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days
552 S£ y P[°P° siti °n to the Government,
iNovemDer Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
LANGSTON, M.R.C.S-, Eng ,
68 Russell St., Melbourne, v
“BUSHMAN”
WATCH
They are Dust Proof. 2 „
»» „ Lever Movement. ■*/©
» .. CompensatJon^Balance.
»» ~ Accurately Adjusted.
CHARLES READ & CO.
420 Ceorgre-st., Syt’ney.
Gun
, Metal
Case.
BLOW RUES
The ONLY destroyer—The “Buzz”
Window Trap, wlthPauldlng’a
Insect Powder. All Storeg.


SB'S
f
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co-,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only and
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
GORDON MARE, Secretary.
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
28 Years in the Establishment.
UP-TO-DATE JEWELLERY-
THE FIANCE.
Solid Cold Gem-Set CHAIM BANCLES, In
40/-, 45/-, 50/-, 60/-. 80/-, to
great variety.
£lO.
18c. 2-Heart Ring,
set with Finest
Diamonds, Rubies,
& Sapphires, £6/10.
POST FREE.
DO
NOT V
FAIL J
To Send for our Latest ILLUSTRATED
SHEETS of XMAS NOVELTIES in
Jewellery, Watches, Silverware, &c.
THE 'NETTLEFOLD’ SCREW
CUFF LINKS.
Solid Gold, Extra Heavy,
perfect model, 9c. 25/-,
150.35/- 1000 other patterns.
Jewellers and Opticians, 90 King Street, Sydney.
Art
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
hold the
Largest
Stock
on
Earth of
Genuine
Bottled
Cognac
Brandy.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC-
%
a
%
m
r
&
sviL : ■ '
V.
iisstifisir
t$V
.--■
laßaaft
r
' •" . . .
?
r
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
v Opposite Union Club and two minutes from ,
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
-Jt
Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments may be
. secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica
tion to The Manager.
m
<3
WIGHTMAN’S
BEACONSFIELP HOTEL
Beaconsfield Parade, St. Kilda, Melbourne.
FIRST-CLASS ACCOMMODATION for Visitors and Per-
manent Boarders. Situated in the healthiest part of
St. Kilda, facing the sea. Hot and Cold Sea Baths. Fifteen
minutes from Melbourne —tram or train. Reasonable Tariff.
Special terms for families and permanent boarders.
Telephone 65 Windsor Exchange.
THE BULLETIN RECITER
BY EIGHTY (80)
BULLETIN BAUDS.
With Illustrations by “ Hop,” N. Lindsay, A. J. Fisher, F. Leisl
D. H. Souter, and H. McCrae. In handsome Cloth, decorated.
Sole Distributing Agents —
PRICE 55.; POSTAGE 4d.
Edwards, Dunlop & Co,, Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
MACHINERY
MERCHANTS,
WHOLESALE IRONMONGERS,
And Importers of
Engines, Boilers, Pumps, Wood-
working Machines, Engineers’
Supplies, Blacksmith and
Coachbuilders’ Requisites, Pipes
and Fittings, Boiler Tubes, Cun
Metal and Brasswarefor Steam
and Water, Household and
Builders’ Ironmongery, Agri-
cultural Implements, Horse
Gears, Chaff Cutters, &c.
0
Mac
Sto^b
pLRY
BRISBANE,
tIEAD
WRISBAN
u
mUrnstm
r
mm
OZt
M u
SMELLIE&C
'■
Sulk
North QucenslrKd BRANCH
Tpwnsviuc..
ss.
North Queensland Warehouse:
Stanley & Sturt Sts., Townsville.
Also at
New Broad St. House, London, E.C.
AGENTS FOR
ROBEY & CO., Portable
Steam Engines.
W. B. HAIGH & CO., Saw-
, mill Machinery,
i GWYNNE’S Centrifugal Pumps
IPEARN’S Manchester Steam
Pumps.
DUPLEX Steam Pumps.
SCOTT’S Steel Mining Ropes.
FRANK VIAL & SON Leather
Belting.
WAUKEGAN Barb Wire.
PLANET JR. Implements.
AER MOTOR Windmills.
KEROSENE OIL ENGINES,
To Smokers of High Class Mixture
WILLS’ 5
(Registered.)
A Choice Blend of High Class and Carefully Selected TOBACCO
Packed only in patent air-tight tins.
Manufactured in two grades—Medium and Full. Price, Is. per 2oz. "Pin.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Voi. 23.—N0. 1184.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1902.
Prior 6d.
WAITING! J. CALVIN’S TWO POUNDS OF FLESH.
“At a special Cabinet meeting consideration was given to the cases of Selina Sangal and August Tisler, sentenced to death last month for the Dandenong murder. It was decided that
the law should be allowed to take its course in both cases, and Tisler was hanged on Monday. The date of the execution could, of course, not be definitely fixed in the case of Mrs. Sangal,
who has not yet been told that the Executive has confirmed her sentence, and it is unlikely that the news will be broken to her until after her accouchement. - ’—IVews Ttem.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
11 Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS AFTER
Ist NOVEMBER , 1902
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tins Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the '‘Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. tohen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin' original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal; Solomon
and Wilson, S 2 Hout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban ; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon. —Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
R.C.
Hong Kong. —. Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
China.—j ßrewer and Co., SI Wanking Road, Shanghai.
ff^szc2le£v)i.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1902.
A Federal Land Tax.
When Premier Barton has got all his
luggage ashore, including his new title, and
his scheme for doubling the naval contribu-
tion and getting less value for the large
contribution than we formerly did for the
small one, and his arrangement for giving a
preference to the British manufacturer and
getting nothing in return, it might be a fair
thing to direct his attention to a merely
Australian matter. Australia may be a poor
trashy place compared to a country where
there are dukes and coronations and the like,
but still it is the only place we have, and we
must needs make the best of it. Though
the first Federal session is only just finished
the next one is very close at hand, and there
are many urgent matters to be attended to—
matters that may look very small in the
atmosphere of dukes and coronations, but
which loom up rather largely here.
* * * *
To mention one among many. A Federal
tax on land and mortgages on the graduated
principle, with a weighty absentee-tax added,
is a matter of the first importance. Such a
tax is a feature—though often a much-
neglected feature —in every democratic pro-
gramme, but there is little hope of securing
it from the Tory oligarchies which run the
dominant Upper Houses in Tasmania and
Yictoria, or from the Boodle party in
Queensland, or from the great borrowing
party in Westralia. The N.S.W. Labor
party has said nothing for a long, long time
about an absentee tax, or about graduating
the land-tax in order to break up big
estates, though isolated members mention
these matters now and then. And the
awful Jenkins, of South Australia, pro-
poses to suspend the land-tax law for
a long series of years as far as con-
cerns the Ninety Million Acres which he
proposes to job away to a private railway
syndicate ; whereby he foolishly ignores the
fact that the Federal Parliament is no party
to his agreement, and that a power which is
greater than Jenkins has to be reckoned
with in the matter. Taking all these and
many other things into account, the demo-
cratic party should give up any serious
attempt at land-tax agitation in the State
Legislatures, where corruption, or the dead
weight of the plural property vote, or the
opposition of immovable Upper Houses,
nullifies their efforts, and should follow the
line of least resistance. In the Federal
Parliament bricks have no vote, and mortar
is disfranchised, and decomposed vegetable
matter doesn’t run the show.
* • * *
That the Federal Parliament has power to
levy a land and mortgage tax, or any other
form of direct or indirect taxation, there is
no doubt whatever. The Constitution gives
it power to impose any kind of taxation.
There may or there may not have been an
intention on the part of the framers of the
Constitution, or on the part of some of them,
to leave the land-tax as a purely State
impost, but Australia has nothing to do
with any unexpressed intentions on the part
of anybody. The Federal land and mort-
gage tax is not proposed by way of duplicat-
ing existing taxation. It should be so
adjusted as to yield to the State with the
most efficient land-tax at least as much as
the present tax does. When it is imposed
it should be expressly specified that the
amount collected shall be returned to the
States, or, which would be much better,
the States should be relieved of an equal
amount of their present expenditure. Then
it will be for the States to abolish their
existing land-taxes, and, under the circum-
stances, they can be fully trusted to do so.
• * *
The Bulletin’s idea of what a Federal
land-tax should be like is somewhat as
follows ;
Every holder of land of the total unimproved value of
£5OO or less to go absolutely free. From £5OO to £lO,OOO,
the rate to be Id. in the £ ; from £lO,OOO to £20,000, the
rate to be ljd. in the £ ; and an additional Jd. in the £
for every extra £lO,OOO of unimproved value up to 6d. in
the £. Every absentee person or corporation to pay
50 per cent, extra, any corporation (including the
Salvation Army) which has its head office outside
Australia or more than half its capital held outside
Australia, to be deemed an absentee. And when the
land is subject to mortgage, the burden to be divided
between the nominal owner and the mortgagee, in pro-
portion to their interests.
In a previous issue of this paper it was sug-
gested that two years continuous absence
before the date of assessment, or fragmen-
tary absences totalling two years out of the
four immediately preceding assessment,
should constitute absenteeism. Further
consideration suggests that one year’s con-
tinuous absence, or casual absences totalling
one year out of the previous two, should
qualify a landholder or mortgagee for extra
taxation.
• • * *
All over Australia there is good and suffi-
cient reason why the land-tax should be
made a Federal impost. In Queensland
there is a stupendous deficit, and unless a
land-tax is imposed it is difficult to see
how the steady downward slide towards
ruin is to be checked. Also Queensland
is the most deeply and hopelessly pawned
State in the Commonwealth, and has got
the absentee in a worse form than almost
any other. If Queensland could go to ruin
without injuring the rest of the Common-
wealth, then it might be pleaded that
Queensland’s ruin is its own affair, but no
one State can go down to bad disaster and
not do grievous damage to the rest. There-
fore, all Australia has a right to supply
Queensland with extra revenue by means of
the land-tax which its Philp bureaucracy
hasn’t the sense to supply itself ; to help to
stop Queensland’s deficit; to help to crush
the absentee who is draining Queensland’s
life-blood : to break up Queensland’s big
land monopolies ; and, generally, to put a
large and helpless brother on his feet.
• * * •
In New South Wales the Labor party
seems to have abandoned all serious idea of
imposing an absentee-tax, or of graduating
the land-tax so as to break up the huge and
disastrous monopolies of the A.A. Co. and
other companies built on the same principle
as that incubus. The N.S.W. land-tax is
utterly and shamefully undemocratic. It
strikes the rich and the poor almost alike.
It levies no special penalty on the rack-
renting “ squire,” or other elevated loafer ;
or the worse rack-renter who spends his
wealth in England, and thus constitutes
himself a perpetual drain on the State
as well as a loafer; or on the great
land-steal corporations which lock up
the best part of the State against closer
settlement, while the agriculturist is driven
away towards the sunset to battle with an
impossible desert, and to raise hope-
less crops on the hobs of Gehenna.
In the richer and better-watered part of
N.S. W. the large estates are growing instead
of diminishing, and the absentee is an in-
creasing curse and an increasing loss. If the
N.S.W. Labor party won’t look to this evil,
it is time that the Australian. Labor party
did.
* • * ♦
In Yictoria, all the valuable city lands and
the bulk of the best country lands pay no
tax whatever. There is an alleged land-tax
which, provided an estate covers more than
640 acres, and is worth more than £2500,
levies ljd. in the £ on the excess above
£2500. As city lands are not held in 640-
acre blocks, Melbourne, Ballarat, Bendigo,
Geelong, and other towns go free. There is
no absentee-tax, and no serious effort to
break up the large estates which block
settlement. Yictoria is desperately in want of
revenue, but the Bent Government and the
48 Rich Landlords in the Upper House would
sooner see the State bankrupt than levy a
tax on their own gorgeous land monopoly.
Therefore the Federal Parliament should
come to the rescue of a State, which, by
reason of the awful Upper House that
Britain inflicted upon it, cannot come to its
own rescue ; should supply it with much-
needed revenue ; should break up the in-
famous Clarke and Chirnside monopolies
which hinder its progress; and teach the
House of Landlords that it isn’t the 48
deities it has always imagined itself to be.
f £ $ A
Tasmania has a land-tax of in the £.
which, by reason of the many exemptions
and the absurdly low valuations, produces
comparatively little. Tasmania doesn’t tax the
great and somnolent Y.D.L. Co.’s monopoly
to anything like the extent required to make
it take its huge burden off the island and
cease blocking settlement in the north-west.
Such a tax as is outlined above would supply
Tasmania with the revenue it needs to prevent
it sliding down into financial Tophet, and at
the same time it would relieve the small
farmer of some of the taxation he now pays.
It would put an end to the draining of the
State’s wealth by the Y.D.L. Co.’s octopus.
It would throw open for settlement a whole
lot of locked-up land, and thereby bring a
rush of tax-paying population, for in this
driest of all dry Commonwealths every
cultivable inch of well-watered Tasmania
would be occupied if only the obstructions to
settlement were removed. The Lewis
Government, the Upper House, the city
newspapers and the V.D.L. Co. would doubt-
less raise a clamor against the Federal land-
tax, which clamor might sound like public
opinion, but the mass of the people would
almost certainly be with the Commonwealth
Government in the matter.
♦ * * #
As regards South Australia, the proposed
measure would hasten the break-up of that
vast absentee corporation, the South Aus-
tralian Company. Also, it would be the
rising up of a new Pharaoh who knows not
Jenkins. It would end the transcontinental
land-grant railway swindle, for the proposed
90,000,000 acres steal would come under the
heaviest scale of taxation as the biggest kind
of absentee-owned estate, and the great
Jenkins job, whereby an area twice as large
as Victoria is to be given away to a gang of
corrupt company-promoters, would die a
natural death. In Westralia the Federal
land-tax policy would do equally good ser-
vice in breaking up the Hampton Plains
syndicate and other unwholesome jobs and
diseases. In fact, there is no part of Aus-
tralia where it wouldn't do good, though it
would probably do most good to Philp and
Jenkins.
* <* • •
The Federal land-tax idea would, of
course, be denounced as a gross encroach-
ment on “ State Rights,” and the party of
monopoly would cover its opposition with
the ragged cloak of a bogus patriotism—that
patriotism which is the last refuge of
scoundrels. But while the Constitution
gives the Commonwealth absolute power to
levy any and every kind of taxation, there
could be no encroachment on State Rights.
It was never specified in the bond that any
kind of taxation should be exclusively State
taxation. All over Australia the progressive
party realises that a graduated land-tax and
an absentee-tax are essential to the country’s
prosperity—that the big landlord is a curse,
and that the crowd of absentees who draw
immense sums out of this country to spend
abroad are a burden which a poor community
is utterly unable to stand. The absentee
who draws £30,000 a year out of Australia
is equal to a debt of £1,000,000, without the
country having had the use and benefit of
the million. He is a gratuitous injury and a
dead loss. Realising these things, it is for
the progressive party to seek a remedy in
the only Australian Legislature where the
people are absolutely supreme—where there
is no nominee element or brick-and-mortar
conspiracy, and where loam has no vote
and cattle don’t rule. To seek for
reform in the State Legislatures is only a
useless going out of the straight road in
search of obstacles.
The Sectarian Issue in Politics.
“ Wab is an obscene word, never used except by
those who wish for it,” said a famous European
diplomatist, most truly. In heading a leading
article “ Sectarian War”; in quoting with sweet
approval the countenance which G. H. Reid
has seen fit to give to the rascally effort of the
“Protestant Defence League” in N.S.W. to
make religious bigotry the issue of politics; in
giving support to the absurd statements of that
absurd league about Romish organisation and
domination —Sydney Daily Telegraph shows
that it wishes sectarian war in its State. The
game is an old one for the cause which that paper
champions with so much vigor and so little scruple.
The foreign-trade party in Australia has before this
rallied its battalions in the dirty ditch of sectarian-
ism, and fooled the electors into voting for “ the
good old English cause,” which centres around the
-bergs and the -heins and so on of Flinders-
lane, Melbourne, and York-st., Sydney, by con-
juring upaKiama ghost, or the wraith of Rome
Rule. One of the greatest difficulties of the
Australian National cause has ever been to dis-
sociate itself from the idea of R.C. domination, of
which its enemies accused it so artfully; to show
that Protection didn’t mean Popery; and that
independence wasn’t necessarily indfpmdmce.
The importers’ gang and their wretched toolsfhave
always, when in difficulty, made it part or their
tactics to allege that the only alternative to their
domination is priestly domination. Before sniffing
at the trap which the bigotry of zealots, the selfish
wickedness of politicians and of certain newspapers,
have prepared for them now, the N.S.W. people
(and the Australian people too —the revival of sec-
tarianism is not confined to one State) should refresh
their minds with a few wholesome truths —estab-
lished as truths by past experience. When the
sectarian cry is successfully raised, when religion
s made the issue of statesmanship, other ques-
tions sink into insignificance, and religious opinion,
becomes the one test of fitness for public life.
Whichever faction wins, holding office as it does
on a religious cry, it must pander to the feelings of
the sectaries supporting it, must look to the clergy
for guidance or direction, must, in short, rule, to
a large extent, on hieratic principles. A Roman
Catholic faction triumphing would naturally, in-
evitably, be directed in its actions by the R.C.
priesthood. A Protestant party getting into
power,would just as certainly and logically shape
its actions by the wishes of its clerical leaders.
Wfipn the ecclesiastic comes into politics, the
other elements of the community are in
the position of the Arab who, in kind-
ness, allowed his camel to put its head inside
his tent for warmth one cold night ; soon the
tent was full of camel and there was no room for
Arab. Accustomed to be the spiritual shep-
herd of his flock, the priest or parson, given the
political sceptre, wishes to wield it with as
full power as he does his pastoral staff.
• • *
There is a very prevalent misconception that,
in matters of religion, the only section from which
political domination is to be feared is the Roman
Catholic. This idea—how mistaken it is will soon
be shown —had a quite natural genesis. Pro-
testantism has generally been more liberal than -
Roman Catholicism, because it has been protest-
ing. It is constituted authority which has the
chance to be tyrannical, not revolt; and in the ,
history of Europe the constituted authority has
generally been the R.C. church, and the party of
revolt and protest the Protestant sect. But there
is the amplest of evidence that there is nothing in
Prote-tant sectarianism less overbearing, cruel
and debasing than in Roman Catholic sectarian-
ism. When Protestantism has become triumphant,
and has remained under the control of its clergy,
it has been guilty of tyranny as gross, of outrages
as repulsive as can ever be charged against a
Roman Catholic Inquisition. Wherever aChristian
church, it may be broadly stated, has secured con-
trol of the secular affairs of a nation, the result has
been cruelty, intolerance, retrogression. History
reeks with examples. Let two of the most con-
spicuous be cited, yielding precedence to the Rev.
Dill Macky’s church, the Presbyterian.
* * • *
During the 17th century the Government of
Scotland was completely in the hands of t he Presby-
terian clergy. “ The clergy, ” says Buckle, “ were
supreme.” They exercised their supremacy by
stopping all intellectual culture, discouraging all
independent inquiry. Whoever disobeyed the
clergy was excommunicated, lost his property
and was publicly condemned to eternal
damnation. The control of the family of the
private person was assumed by the clergyman.
Spies were appointed to ransack every domestic
hearth. The servants of any suspected religiously-
disaffected person were cited before the Inquisi-
tion of the Protestant clergy to give evidence as
to his habits. To differ from a parson in opinion,
to neglect to salute him, was a crime. His name
was sacred and not to be taken in vain. The
clergy claimed that, by their curses, they could
strike men dead. No parson might be sued with
impunity in the civil courts. All people were
forced to attend at church. Innocent amusements
were denounced as sinful; even filial love was
often held to be a sin. Diseases were not caused
by dirt, but by the anger of God, and it was
blasphemy to seek to ward them off. Cheerfulness
was a crime ; music and dancing heinous wicked-
ness. Those who disobeyed the clergy were
punished with fines, imprisonment, and branding
with hot irons. Some of the “crimes” punished
by the clergy were : to allow shelter to a Catholic,
to shave the beard, and to bathe the body. That
was the state of a country, otherwise civilised,
which fell under the dominion of the Protestant
clergy—the liberal, freedom-of-conscience, tolerant
Protestant clergy.
* * * •
To match it with a Roman Catholic example is
not hard. To take one from the same era, In
the 17th century Spain was putting the coping-
stone on to the infamies of the. Netherlands
persecution and the Spanish Inquisition by the
expulsion of the Moriscoes, whose orthodox
Catholicism was more than doubted. Before
then, desperate efforts had been made to kill out
by persecution these people of Moorish race. One
of the chief efforts of'the Spanish R.C. clergy
(who absolutely ruled the country at the time)
against the cleanly Moriscoes was to order the
destruction of all public and private baths, “as
bathing was a heathenish custom.” Like the
Presbyterian clergy in Scotland, the R.C. clergy
in Spain saw a deadly foe in cleanliness. But
such half measures having failed, the Moriscoes
were finally expelled in a body, after the
Archbishop of Toledo had suggested as a better
alternative that they should all be massacred.
In all, 1,000,000 of these people were driven out
of Spain by the R. C. clergy in the space of a few
months. Of these perhaps the majority perished.
Of one body of 140,000 refugees, 100,000 died.
The unfortunate Moriscoes, on their way across to
Africa in the Spanish transports, were subjected
to all the cruelties which a thoroughly pious and "
priest-ridden race could inflict ; their women
were ravished, the men and children butchered in
droves. The result of this murderous expulsion
was the swift decline of Spain. By the end of
the 17th century the people, who had been pro-
mised prosperity by the clergy so soon as they
had cleared out all heretics and infidels, were
suffering “poverty and wretchedness surpassing
all description.” The whole race was absolutely
starving, and it was not until the French Bourbons
came to the throne that the power of the clergy
was curbed and some amelioration obtained.
* * * •
Ireland’s history in itself gives terrible warning
against clerical domination of any kind. It was
a Pope who first sold Ireland into bondage, and it
was the insolent rapacity of the Roman Catholic
Eowers in England which gave the stimulus tothose
orrible wars of ravage and rapine which were
waged against a brave but disunited people. At a
later stage, the narrow Protestant sectaries of the
Cromwellian period gave the unhappy country a
taste of the other type of clerical tyranny, drench-
ing her fields in blood, murdering men, women
and children and depopulating whole provinces to
sell the inhabitants as slaves in the West Indies.
But why multiply historical instances ? To the
most casual student of the past it must be evident
that whenever and wherever a priesthood or a
parsonry—no matter what its dogma—has secured
control of the State the result has been tyranny,
cruelty, a negation of all that is noble and just in
human nature, an affirmation of all that is san-
guinary and superstitious.
* • * *
It is indeed a logical necessity that it should be
so. Religious teachers, believing firmly that the
dogmas to which they hold are necessary to
eternal salvation—necessary to secure the noblest
happiness and avoid the blackest misery for a
period of time beside which the currency of a
thousand earthly lives is not even as the shadow
of a shadow of a speck in Space, are almost in-
evitably pushed into persecution. A logic true


snough in its steps, absurd only in its grotesque
premises, almost compels them to force by any
means everybody into “ the true fold.” What is
the hanging or burning of a few hundreds by the
side of securing eternal happiness for many thou-
sands? That is the mental attitude of the
theologian, and that he transfers into action if he
is allowed to establish a hierarchy and to seize
the sword of the civil power. And it matters not
one whit whether lie is Protestant or Catholic.
The one hangs you in gloomy silence, the other
roasts you to excellent music. Religious persecu-
tion may seem to be a far remote thing in
these days. But it is only the power
to persecute, not the desire, that slum-
bers. Give the clergy their way, inflame the
minds of the people to religious hatreds,
make the preposition in a creed the political issue,
and soon superstition, bigotry, hatred, persecu-
tion will raise their heads. From hating one
another heartily for God’s sake at the ballot-box,
the people will go on to breaking one another’s
heads for the same reason ; and after that the fires
will be lighted. '
* • • *
The Bulletin, at this crisis in the affairs of the
young Australian Commonwealth, urges the
people to stamp to death the venomous serpent of
sectarianism, to refuse to be led by Bishop or
Bethel-thumper into religious war. It may seem
a small matter to drop “for just this once” the
true issues of politics, and vote on questions, to a
certainty on which the human mind can never
grope. But it is not. Let sectarianism once
establish its noisome rule, and there are possibili-
ties of disaster matching the conditions of Scot-
land and Spain in the 17th century. The sectary
is never content with one hell. Give him his way
and he will make one of the earth. Let us keep
priest and parson in their places.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Coercion, Sedition, and Sundries.
Another violent attack of coercion has fallen
upon Ireland, and the news that an Irish M.P.,
or some other prominent person, has been sent to
gaol for inciting the people to disaffection against
the rack-renter and the absentee English land-
lord, happens along every now and then as a
matter of course. Just now the crime of not
loving the> absentee English landlord is a very
dreadful one in Ireland. This is really the only
present grievance, for the island is singularly free
from crime, as the term is commonly understood.
In proportion to population, England and Scot-
land have, of late, shown a vastly worse record.
It is not the prevalence of murder, assault, theft,
or violence or dishonesty in any form that causes
the British Tory Government to load Ireland
with all manner of extraordinary laws
of repression, to suppress public meetings,
td prosecute newspapers, and generally to rage like
the heathen mentioned in the Scripture. Yet the
insurrectionary Irishmen who are sent to gaol
every day under the special repressive laws of
the British Tory Government only want to do
what Maoriland and South Australia have been
doing for years. They want to get rid of the big
estates and the great absentee landlords ; and the
absentee taxes and graduated land-taxes of King-
ston and Seddon were acts of bitter hostility
directed against the same class that the Irish
Land League objects to. They want to build
up their own industries by a Protective tariff,
though there is no reason to suppose that they
want to direct against England quite so stu-
pendous a hostile tariff as Seddon has done.
And, just like all these States, they want some
measure of local self-government, though the idea
of maintaining a separate army, as these States do,
isn’t specifically mentioned. Strange as it may
seem, Seddon, the recent guest of royalty, has
done, in the very worst form, everything that the
recently-gaoled Irish M’sP. wanted to do, and
more. Even Parnell never attempted against
England quite so much as the loyal groveller
Seddon has actually accomplished. It is one of
the strange kinks of the English mind that what
is loyalty in other places is treason in Ireland ;
and the thing that, done in other parts of the
Empire, makes a man the King’s guest at the
Hotel Cecil, if done in Iceland is liable to make
him the King’s guest for three months at the
Hotel Skilly. The injuries that England did to
Ireland are what England can never forgive. For
instance, this old historical ghost rises from
that standard English work, Green’s “History
of the English People ” :
Every Catholic Irishman, and there were five Irish
Catholics to every Irish Protestant, was treated as a
stranger and a foreigner in his own country. The House
of Lords, the House of Commons, the magistracy, all cor-
porate offices in towns, all ranks in the army, the bench,
the bar, the whole administration of government or
justice were closed against Catholics. The very right of
voting for their representatives in Parliament was denied
them. Few Catholic landowners had been left. .. .
England did her best to annihilate Irish com-
merce and ruin Irish agriculture. Statutes passed
by the jealousy of English landowners forbade the
export of Irish cattle or sheep to English ports. The ex-
port of wool was forbidden, lest it might interfere with
the profits of English woolgrowers. Poverty was thus
added to the curse of misgovernment, and poverty
deepened with the rapid growth of the native population
till famine turned the country into a hell. . . . Soldiers
and yeomanry marched over the country torturing and
scourging the “ croppies ” (as the Irish peasantry were
called, in derision, from their short-cut hair), robbing,
ravishing and murdering. These outrages were sanc-
tioned by the (Protestant.) landowners, who formed the
Irish Parliament, in a Bill of Indemnity.
The race that has done things like that never quite
forgives the race it did them to. All the mean,
narrow animosity of DiLL-MACKY-ism is aroused,
and Dill-Mack Y-ism is a horrible and brutal
virtue when it gets in full blast.
+
An All-Night Sitting.
N.S.W. Assembly recently raged in financial
debate for 26 hours consecutively, and as a large
proportion of the speakers were hostile to the
Ministry, it might be expected that they would
contrive, in that time, to at least mention what
was wrong with the finances, and how they might
be put right. A patient study of these 26 hours
of squall and condemnation shows that the
Opposition did nothing of the kind. There were
complaints about borrowing in general, about
borrowing for wholly unproductive purposes,
about deficits, and misuse of trust funds, but the
most obvious ways of attempting a remedy never
got a mention. The following, in The Bulletin’s
view, are the principal things that the House
managed, with marvellous ingenuity, to leave
unsaid all those 26 hours:
(1) So long as there is no restriction as to the kind of
works a Treasurer may charge to loans—so long as there
is no law defining what is fairly loan expenditure and
what isn’t —there' will be Chaos.
(2) If it is enacted that all works not directly produc-
tive of income shall be charged to revenue, and a payment
of, say, £2,000,000 a year to a Public Works fund (to be
in charge of trustees) is made a first lien on revenue, and
if the trust funds are put out of the Treasurer’s reach so
that he can’t fall back on them, then the Treasurer will
probably find some way of making ends meet. Even a
N.S.W. Treasurer can do a good deal when he is driven
to it. , , .
(3) If the Treasurer is so placed that he has to make in-
come cover expenditure after providing for the above-
mentioned first lien, or else run short of money to pay
the Assembly’s salary, then the Assembly will probably
also develop an unexpected knowledge of how to make
ends meet (which is proposition No. 2 over again). _
(4) Necessity is the mother of invention (which is also
proposition No. 2 over again). As every party in the
Assembly so carefully avoids the necessity, the inference
is that it doesn’t want the invention.
(5) All the talk in the world about the Government
having borrowed too much is mere hypocrisy, so long as
not one member or party is game to bring in a Bill de-
claring that borrowing shall be rigidly limited to so much
per annum.
(6) All the conversation in the world about the misuse
of trust funds is dust and ashes, while no member or
party is prepared to bring in a Bill providing that the
trust-funds shall be vested in trustees, who shall not be
allowed to lend the Treasurer a copper, but shall invest
the money in buying up old Government securities in the
English market.
(7) All the complaints about deficits are a hollow joke
so long as no party has the courage to propose that all
the illicit means by which the Treasurer now supplements
the revenue shall be cut off, that he shall not have
access to either loan or trust-funds for temporary ad-
vances, and that, when money runs short, the payment
of wages, salaries and accounts must stop till more money
comes in—in other words, so long as no party is prepared
to take the responsibility of having no deficits.
(8) In addition to the above devices, a lot of good might
be effected if it were made law that the Premier must also
be Treasurer; and that in each 3 r ear, when the Auditor-
General certifies that there is no shortage after charging
the year with all sums fairly chargeable to it (including
the £2,000,000 for public works), the salary of the Pre-
mier-Treasurer shall be £lO,OOO, while in deficit years it
shall be £5OO. The difference is £9500, and £9500 is the
mother of invention just as much as necessity is. But,
as no party seems likely to suggest this either, it is
another missing evidence of the sincerity of the com-
plainants.
In fact, the only idea ever put forward is that the
crowd that is in should be put out, and the crowd
that is out should be put in, and, as the crowd
that is out always wants to be put in with full
liberty to do all the bad things for which the other
crowd is to be put out, the conclusion is that both
crowds are a nuisance.
«
The Irvine-Bent Programme.
The speech with which the Victorian Parliament
opened was a curious mixture of far-back Toryism
and professed Liberalism. 'The country is dead
certain that the Toryism will be acted up to;
still if it were equally certain that the Liberalism
would be acted up to, and that a Ministry could
be straight which is so badly Bent, it would
have every reason to be contented. The first
measure to be introduced is the new Factories
Act, which Minister Bent has already publicly
denounced, in Premier Irvine’s presence, as an
invention of the devil, or somewhere thereabouts.
It will doubtless be introduced, and it will
probably pass the Assembly, a sobered and
restrained Bent voting for it with the rest.
Then it will almost certainly be thrown out by
the House of 48 Rich Landlords, and, if it is,
the Bent Ministry can either pose as the crushed
and saddened victim of circumstances and let it go,
or it can fight. The finances are to be straightened,
mostly at the expense of the poor, by cutting
down wages, by charging income-tax on small
incomes hitherto exempt, and by charging probate
duty on small estates which have so far gone free.
As for a general land-tax, which will take in the
wealthy farming class and raise a little revenue
out of the enormously valuable ground-values in
the city of Melbourne, that seems as far off as
ever, and it will probably remain so till the
Australian Parliament makes the land-tax a
Federal impost, and a higher power smites Bent’s
allotments with a well-deserved ljd. or 2d. in the
£. But the clause in its programme on which the
Irvine Government’s reputation must stand or
fall is this :
A bill dealing with the reform of the Constitution will
be introduced at a very early date. That measure will
provide, amongst other things, for a reduction in the
number of Ministers, and of members of both branches of
the Legislature; for dispensing with the property quali-
fication for members of the Legislative Council, and ex-
tending the franchise for both chambers; for the settle-
ment of differences between the two Houses; and for an
early dissolution of Parliament so that a new Legislature
may be elected upon the altered basis.
If that Bill proves to be all that is described, and
if it doesn’t perish by the wayside, it will be the
greatest reform that Victoria has seen for at least
20 years. It will break the power of the narrowest
and most arrogant oligarchy in Australia, and
open the way for all manner of future reforms.
But the House of Landlords has already inti-
mated, by the mouth of one of its members, who
is also a member of the Irvine Government, that
while it will gladly pass the measures for laying
special taxation on the poor, there will be
violent opposition to Council reform, and the
Landlords will only move if they are assured that
the will of the country is behind the measure.
And the Landlords always refuse to become
aware that the will of the country is behind any
measure that they dislike. Until at least two
M’s.L.C. are killed in a riot the ignorance
of the other 46 about any public dissatisfaction
will continue. Certainly the Kyabram crowd
said nothing about constitutional reform;
and Bent isn’t a reformer; and the Argus
and Duncan Gillies and Sammy Lancaster
and F. Madden don’t look m the least like
people who want to do anything to the
House that blocks the land-tax. It is a misfor-
tune for the Irvine Government that its alleged
first principle should have been kicked by Minister
Bent, and its alleged second principle spoken off
with cold hostility by Solicitor-General Davies,
and that it should thus publicly hint to
the Upper House that it wants its sacred
principles trodden on. When these sacred,
principles are trodden on, if Irvine and
co. are the ordinary kind of reformers, they will
say regretfully that they can do no more. If they
are sufficiently extraordinary to tell the Council
that the whole machinery of Government is going
on strike till the 48 cave in and pass the Reform
Bill (a genuine Reform Bill), and if they keep
their word, The Bulletin will take back all the
unkind things it has said about them —even about
Bent. At a push, it will say that Bent doesn’t
weigh more than ten stone.
A Smell From the Colo River.
“ Counting-out ” in N.S.W. Assembly is becom-
ing scandalously prevalent. Within the last few
weeks there have been count-out attempts : to
shelve an awkward demand for a public works
return from the Owe’Sullivan (successful); to
dodge a decision on the Bushveldt Carbineers
question (unsuccessful); and to kill Mr. Arthur
Griffith’s Free Education Bill (successful). The
same game was played on Oct. 14, when the
Assembly counted-out on a silly “secession"
motion for adjournment by one of the comic poli-
ticians of the House. Possibly members wished
to dodge the responsibility for giving a straight
“aye” or “nay” on an issue which, however,
absurd, has “some votes in it” among the more
ignorant of the electors. But it is to be more
reasonably surmised that the count-out was due to
the fact that there appeared oil the business paper a
motion by Mr. J. C. L. Fitzpatrick expressing
disagreement “with the issue of rights or privileges
to private companies to utilise the natural forces
of the Grose, Colo, or other rivers of the State as
a means of providing motive power for the gene-
ration of electricity.” There have been, for
months past, rumors current as to the granting of
a big concession to a syndicate to generate elec-
tricity from the coastal rivers near Sydney, with
which to supply the city with motive and lighting
power. And the sinister circumstance in connec-
tion with these rumors is that no definite infor-
mation can be got as to their truth or not. If such
a concession has been granted, the members of the
N.S. W. Government should know of it; but they
profess ignorance as to so lofty a scheme, whilst
reluctantly owning up to a small firewood conces-
sion, or something of that sort, having been
granted to somebody or other. The public has a
right to know whether the only possible sources
of electric supply from water near to Sydney have
been secretly given over to a monopoly ; and it
won’t be less anxious.to know because an attempt
to ventilate the matter in Parliament has been
smothered by a count-out. Mr. Fitzpatrick
should take action on another night to bring the
matter again before Parliament.
♦
The Kindly Landowner.
The landholders in the dry regions of Victoria are
getting their stock removed at merely nominal
railway rates to more favored localities, and they
go further and demand that it shall be removed
absolutely free. When the stock gets to the more
favored localities—the ones where there is grass—
the landlords there demand twice or three times
the usual rentals for grazing land. They shame-
lessly make a huge profit out of the distresses of
their fellow pastoralists, and no one seems sur-
prised at them doing it. Yet, if the Minister for
Railways doubled the railway rates for starving
stock, on the ground that it had to be shifted, and
thereforea fairopportunity presented itself to make
a little money, not for himself, after the fashion
of the private landlord, but for the community in
general, the public rage would be so great that
T. Bent would probably be lynched in Collins-
street and his body left on the tram-line. If he
simply retained the old rates, and took no advan-
tage of the pastoralists’ necessities at all, his billet
wouldn’t be worth a month’s purchase. Yet the
private landlord of the well-grassed regions, who
cruelly rack-rents his distressed rother from the
dry parts, isn’t assassinated. Hi i m’t even spoken
unkindly of. He deposits him.-elf on his usual
seat in the Upper House and legislates in the old
way. And he has strong opinions about the
necessity of the State making further railway
concessions, while he swallows up these conces-
sions by his exorbitant rents. And if the State
seized upon the unused or insufficiently used grass
lands, and paid just a fair rent for them, and let
them out at the same rent to the distressed mallee
pastoralists in order to save their flocks—well, the
howl of the landlord at not being allowed to de-
fraud his distressed fellow-countryman of his very
last copper would blow the front out of Parlia-
ment House, and the big stone pillars would go
careering down Bourke-street.
■ ♦
A Floating 1 Vote.
A wild rush is just now being made by the
Victorian Tories to sweep away one or two
decently democratic measures which stand in
the way of their having an absolutely free hand.
In 1898, the then fairly Tory electoral law of the
State was amended, so that electors could demand
special courts to be held any time up to a couple
of days before an election, and further, could, by
giving seven days’ notice and proving that they
resided in the district for one month, take out a
certificate entitling them to vote. The object of
this alteration was to enable workers who move
about a great deal, owing to the irregular nature
of their employment, to exercise the franchise.
The proof that such an amendment was highly
necessary is to be obtained in the great use that
has been made of voters’ certificates at every
election since the system came into operation. It
is not surprising, therefore, to find the Tories
doing their best to wreck the voters'-certificate
system, for the Tory always wants to go to the
polls untrammelled by the votes of the men he
employs. It is alleged, as a reason for abolishing
the certificates, that they encourage a floating
vote. Why a vote shouldn’t float instead of sink-
ing no Tory explains. And if there is a floating
vote in Victoria it is that manipulated and
exercised by the Tories themselves. Under the
present law a man, if he owns property in every
one of the 84 constituencies, may be on 84 different
rolls, and may cast his vote wherever it will be of
most use to his party. This scheme works out
handsomely for the Tories in cities and suburbs.
For instance, most of the property owners in the
Melbourne city own houses in several suburbs. If
there is no contest in the city they go to the
suburbs and vote. On the other hand, if there is
no contest in their suburb, they come in and
vote in Melbourne or Melbourne East.. This was
done with great effect at the last election ; indeed
the newspapers came out with lists showing how
certain Tory votes that were released by walks-
over in Brighton, Toorak and West Melbourne
should float round to other places and be east
there in the party interests. Now that the Tories
have raised the question of the amendment of the
electoral law, democrats ought to see to it that
property-owners are compelled to vote where they
reside, and not float.
4
An interesting row has started between the
Federal Government and the South Australian one,
as to “ the proper channel of communication,” in
matters affecting external affairs, between the
States and the British Govt. Chamberlain, set
going first by the Foreign Office, to which a com-
plaint had been made, asked the Federal Govt,
to consider and report on an alleged breach of the
Netherlands Convention at Adelaide. Deakin
wrote to Jenkins, asking for information, but got
no sort of answer whatever for two months, although
he asked repeatedly for at least the courtesy
of an acknowledgment. Finally, when Jenkins
did have the grace to reply at all, it was to say
that “ this Government cannot allow any of its
officers to submit their conduct to inquiry by any
other Government.” Mr. Deakin’s contention
opon this was.absolutely conclusive : “The fulfil-
ment of treaty obligations is obviously one of those
external affairs peculiarly Federal, which could
not be dealt with independently by each State
without producing an intolerable condition of con-
fusion prolific in international complications.”
Yet, at latest, Chamberlain had sent direct to
the S. A. Government for a report, whioh looks
very much like putting the Commonwealth into the
dust. Presumably, however, this has not settled
the matter for good. The Federal Government’s
duty, anyhow, is plain—to fight for the complete
knock-out of this foolish little claim that there are
still six tinpot “Foreign Ministers” in these
States, . all running on their own, and some of
them, it seems, discourteous enough to cause no
end of trouble.
After all the weeping of the cheap nigger labor
crowd about the alleged “Christian” Kanaka,
who is sent back to the islands under Federal law
to be slain by his savage relative who stayed at
home—the savage relative whom the missionaries
have been converting and mollifying for sixty
years or so—this sort of thing is dispiriting :
BUNDABERG, October 7.
On search being made of the recruiter Coquette yester-
day, prior to her departure for the South Sea Islands, the
Polynesian officials came upon about 30 rifles, together
with a quantity of ammunition, fuses, and dynamite.
The islanders had concealed these things most carefully,
and only the most diligent and thorough searching
brought them to light.
It almost seems as if it were the wild nigger on the
islands who needed to be protected from his
Christian brother. Apparently, judging by the
careful search made, it is known to be the regular
thing for the Christian nigger to go back loaded.
This picture of him going ashore with 30 rifles
and a lot of dynamite is very different from the
one to which we are accustomed —the one in which
he returns armed only with the Scripture and a
spirit of resignation and a clean collar, and is met
on the beach by a howling demon, who leaps eight
feet in the air every time he howls, and who
promptly sheds the returned one’s blood, and
boils the cooking-pot with the Scripture and the
clean collar.
♦
A miner, writing to us from Johannesburg, gives
some indication of the reason why the British (or
rather Cohen) administration in S’Africa has had
to impose a head-tax to force the Kaffirs to work
in the mines:
Under Boer rule the Kaffir laborer got 3s. per day and
he was satisfied. Now the capitalists have nobbled the
Government to cut the Kaffir down to Is. per day. A
number of Kaffirs at the Geldinous Deep G.M. Co., on
finding out how they were placed (out of the 30s. a month
which they were paid 2s. a month was taken £or a pass,
and they had to pay the expenses for their own enlist-
ment, so that for the first month they got about 155.)
wanted to be sent home again, but they were flogged
under the muzzles of guns into submission. Of course,
that is not slavery ! The military help the mine-owners
in everything and supply soldiers, who have been stran-
ded here, at the rate of ss. a day to take miners’ places.
Capital has played a gigantic game and has won a big stake.
Dr. Jameson has made another Raid, this time against
constitutional government in Cape Colony, and but for
the Australian Premiers in England, I believe the con-
stitution would have gone down. I feel sure the Labor
party here will poll heavily at election time if we get
anything like a liberal franchise, but the Government
will do all it can in the interests of capital to bilk the
democratic party. The country is just now over-run with
Jews. No one could get a pass to return to the Rand
without a Jewish name and a nose to endorse the name.
I know one man by the name of Gerald who applied
eight times for a pass but was refused ; he then took the
name of Rubinstein and got his pass without delay
♦
The materialising of spirits is an old game, and
the theory that other things can be material-
ised by hard thinking about them has also found
some credence. There is a legend about a French
artist who thought so hard about a unicorn he
was painting that the animal materialised in his
studio, broke nearly everything, kicked the paint-
ing backwards into the middle of the twelfth
century, so that it fell on the head of King Philip
Augustus, and put his horn through a door worth
£3 7s. 6d. In like manner, George Reid, by hard
thinking about his Dry Dog, seems to have
materialised that animal. Twice during his recent
Imported-Shoddy campaign in Victoria, a small,
disreputable-looking dog arose out of nowhere
in particular, and ascended the platform, and
sat in front of the great Wobbler, and hung
out its tongue to show that it was dry.
There is no evidence that it was a real dog ; it
was apparently only a temporarily materialised
idea. George tries hard to exorcise the animal
now by dropping his old figure of speech about the
Freetrade industry being like a small dog which
has to be thrown into the water and made to swim
for itself, but the animal has been so firmly
established that it will only wear away in the
slow process of years. It is the ghost of George
K.eid’s many protected industries —the ones he
didn’t throw into the water but kept dry on the
bank, and his silent demand for an explanation of
his own drouth is pathetic.
♦
Some Victorian election figures: Average number
of electors per member, 2872, varying from 1542
for Clunes and Allendale, 1586 for Windermere,
and 1711 for Creswick, to 6472 for Essendon and
Flemington, and 5330 for Eastern Suburbs. Aver-
age number who voted, 1965 per member. For
the 70 seats for which there was a fight (including
11 double electorates), 169,058 votes were cast, of
which the Ministry scored 96,445; Opposition,
38,148; and Labor, 34,645. On these figures, in a
House of 95 members, the Government should
claim 54 supporters, the Opposition 22, and Labor
19; yet, allowing for the fact that in many
country electorates Opposition and Labor con-
stituents were limited to voting for one or
other of several Ministerial candidates, the
electorates are parcelled out in such an iniqui-
tous fashion that the parties number respectively
66, 15 and 14! By what process of reasoning the
3465 electors, who sent Anstey in for Bourke
Boroughs, are reckoned only half as good as the
382 who returned Wallace for Maldon, is known
only to the man chiefly responsible for the present
rascally system canny Tory Gillies. Last
Wednesday week 104,636 “ city ” voters (including
Ballarat, Bendigo and Geelong) returned 35 repre-
sentatives, just as many as were sent in by 64,402
country voters. In the metropolis alone Labor
secured 13 seats and the Opposition 4 against the
Ministry’s 12. Irvine says he represents the
oountry. So he does—but not in the sense he
means. He represents cows and turnips.
4
Melbourne Age country intelligence;
HIGH RENTALS FOR GRASS.
Maffra. Tuesday.—Rents in this district are increasing
as leases expire. Mr. W. B. Crisp’s farm, of 211 acres,
formerly let at 138. per acre, brought 21s. 3d. per acre at
auction. Another* formerly let at 65., brought 11s. 6d.
per acre. MessrSf'Glassford, of Mewburn Park, have let
2000 acres for ten months at the rate of 30s. per acre per
year for grazing only.
Leongatha, Tuesday.—Fifty trucks of starving stock
arrived at Leongatha from northern areas on Saturday.
Some of them were in a pitiable condition, and several
were dead in the trucks. Every week special trains are
arriving with both horses and cattle, the owners of which
are paying as much as 2s. 6d. and 3s. per head to local
graziers for pasture.
The Government railways carry the starving
stock for next to nothing, and the people make
good the loss. The Government has also come down
to giving the distressed pastoralist tick for the trifle
it does charge him. Then when the perishing ani-
mals reach grass country the above happens. The
landlord ghoul has no feeling for the distressed
country, or the distressed stock, or the ruined
owners—except to grind double tents out of
their distresses. He is firmly convinced, while
doubling his own charges, that the State
should “make concessions”—but as for making
concessions himself he would see his country
and his distressed countrymen in Hades sooner.
And the landlord’s prescriptive right to be an
extortioner is so deep-rooted that no one
thinks of hanging him on a lamp-post for
.such proceedings as these The Government is


THE LARGEST AND BEST IN THE WORLD l
The Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York
NET FUNDS, January 1, 1902, £71,975,776.
Principal Agency in Australasia; Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
Z. 0. RENNIE, General Manager.
FACILE PRINCEPS
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
SAWMILL
MACHINERY.
SINGLE and DOUBLE GUTTING BAND SAW
MILLS. Satisfaction guaranteed. CIRCULAR
SAW MILLS. Complete Outfits of any capacity.
BAND RESAWS, indespensible in Modern Mills.
ENGINES, BOILERS, etc.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
bitterly grumbled at because it only knocks off
about two-thirds of its regular railway rates and
gives the grass on State lands rent free, or practi-
cally free. Meanwhile, the private landlord who
doubles his charges at this crisis excites no
animosity. Everybody knew he would do it. If
he was a shade less of a selfish hog than he is, the
country would fall down the very deadest kind of
a corpse from sheer astonishment.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Toww Hall. Dolores.
Lyceum.. .................. “ A Million of Money.”
Royal “ Sherlock Holmes.”
Palace ......... “ The Messenger Boy.”
Criterion “Little Christopher Columbus.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ The Private Secretary."
Her Majesty's “ The Toreador."
Theatre Royal “ The Widow from Japan.”
Bijou Hawtrey Comedy Co.
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Bridge) ‘"} Bros.' Circus.
Melba’s third concert brought so huge
fen audience to Sydney Town Hall that
there wasn’t room for a programme to flutter
to the floor. Bird songs are as much in Madame’s
line as if she were winged, feathered and
beaked, and when she sang Bishop’s “Lo!
Here the gentle Lark,” her trilling seemed
to know no more bounds or bars than the
Soaring small bird with the great voice. After
four recalls she assuaged the musical thirst with a
dainty bit of sentimental simplicity, “Three
Green Bonnets,” and presently sang, “Home,
Sweet Home,” to her own accompaniment. One
is popularly supposed to dash aWay tears at this
number, but one never does. The Venetian
Chant which she gave to a harp accompani-
ment was received rapturously. Madame’s poor
support did its best, and the only hardship of
the evening was the National Anthem’s definite
announcement that there would be no more
Melba for three days. The diva’s appear-
ance was as fine as on previous occasions, but
she was differently festooned and garlanded—with
silver gauze, roses and diamonds. The final
Sydney concert is to-night (Thursday), and the
singer then goes on to Brisbane.
** * *
The pallid, whitewash-colored countenance
of Sherlock Holmes has so far looked inscrutably
on things at Sydney Royal in the presence of
respectable business. But Sherlock is a repul-
sively-cocky individual, and, on the whole, The
Bulletin’s sympathies are with Moriarty, even
apart from Atholwood’s fine rendering of the
character. Moriarty is forced by the author to
ridiculously mismanage his affairs in order that
Holmes may come out on top, whereas, if the
novelist left them to fight things out, the long,
brown, reptile person in the cellar would carry this
paper’s money every time. There is a very ancient
legend that Buddha or some other original person
was much worried in his mind as to whether a
deer or a tiger was the faster animal, so he created
the tiger, and then created the deer 100 yards
ahead, and watched the result. If the novelist
had similarly created his two characters and
turned them loose to settle things themselves, the
professor, in about six months, would probably
nave done it by throwing Sherlock’s head
through the author’s window. There is a patient
methodicalness about the long, lean, ancient King
of Crime, as he sits at a desk in his cellar, posting
the dead bodies in a big ledger, and adding up
the horrors and the loot, and sending telephone
instructions for new crimes, that contrasts
strongly with Sherlock’s habit of taking drugs by
the fireside and looking fixedly at space. And
when Sherlock, in the last act, becomes maudlin
in his love for the girl who was tortured to make
her give up “ the papers,” he contrasts badly with
Moriarty, who has just gone to gaol cursing and
disguised as a cabman, but has refused to propose
to any girl right up to the end. All through
Moriarty lays to his book and sticks to business.
Sherlock mixes business with girl and cocoaine,
and that ought to be his undoing.
* sfc * *
“ A Million of Money ” continues to be a
glittering mass of wealth at Sydney Lyceum.
The fact that the two villains go about their
wickedness in a probable and systematic manner
is largely responsible for this, for the improbable
villain has become a weariness and the impossible
ruffian is a burden. Miss Harrie Ireland, as the
bad lady with the magic eye, sandwiches her life
of sin with relapses into legal matrimony, which
invariably turn out badly. Baker’s position, when
beloved by two such beauteous apparitions as
Harrie Ireland and Frances Ross, is an enviable
one, and it is a pity he doesn’t better appreciate
his luck. It is a duel of dress between trie two,
and Frances wins by an extra yard of tail.
* # * ifc
Mdlle. Antonia Dolores is to do three fare-
well concerts at Sydney Town Hall on Saturday
(25th), Tuesday and Thursday.
** * *
At Sydney Criterion “ Mrs. Goldstein”
gives place this week to “Little Christopher
Columbus” revived. The Goldstein production,
though improving towards the end, did not take
too well, being sketchy, purposeless and uncertain;
also there wasn’t much of it at any time. More-
over, the joke on which it rested was old and
tattered ; and Johnny Sheridan, as a mother-in-
law, had certain drawbacks.
** * *
At Sydney Tivoli, Sfr.ndow comes to the
close of his brief season with a new and wonderful
equestrian feat of strength. Of late, Sandow has
been trying to put some little graces and tricks
into his turn ; but the light manner does not sit
on him well. The Nawns, the Wiltons, Wallace
Brownlow, and the biograph pictures continue to
give a necessary flavor of frivolity and jocoseness
to the programme, over which Sandow’s muscle
casts a great shadow of seriousness.
* # * *
“ The Messenger Boy ” is, naturally, not
a better play than it was last week, but the com-
pany at the Palace Theatre makes a somewhat
more successful effort to put some life into its
mummy-like form and to do the librettist’s work
for him. It is probable that the ‘ ‘ Boy ” will see
the season of his co. out. Next month “Cyrano
de Bergerac ” will be staged by a co. led by Mr.
Henry Lee. Melbourne critics spoke very highly
of this production; and the Melbourne public
stayed away from it cordially; which two facts
seem to hint at success here.
* * * *
“Oh 1 Mr. Pennilove,” the farcical comedy
that cropped up at Melbourne Bijou last Satur-
day, is an early essay in dramatic authorship by
“Billy” Elton’s son. Nothing so substantially
food was expected from the silly title of G. W.
Ilton’s three-act farce. "Perhaps the result
seemed all the better because so little had been
expected, but after allowing for the effects of sur-
prise, one must admit that “ Oh ! Mr. Pennilove”
has genuine pretensions to newness, originality,
and go. The plot has no side-issues to
speak of; the interest in its characters is not pro-
perly maintained and balanced ; it doesn’t appeal
to the sympathies of the audience at any one
point; it is amateurishly acted for the most
part—nevertheless, “Oh! Mr. Pennilove” will
bear thinking about. An ordinary, neatly-built
farce doesn’t bear thinking about. Elton fils has
written something of a comedy in which there is
promise of future success for the author.
• * » *
Pennilove is a weak, farcical, elderly
person, controlled by Chapman, his friend.
Chapman once saved him from drowning in 3ft.
of water, and has been drawing cheques on his
gratitude ever since. Chapman’s former girl,
lately married to another friend of Pennilove
(whose marriage and place of residence are
strangely unknown to that amiable idiot) has pre-
served some letters with a view to wrecking
Chapman’s designs on the income and affections
of a recent “mash.” This new girl happens to be
Pennilove’s niece, yet Chapman doesn’t know of
her relationship until he meets her in uncle’s
house and arranges to elope with her next day.
Also uncle and aunt live through the three acts of
complication with it discovering this little thread
of love story. (. hapman persuades his meek
Pennilove to th t c ' foolishness of entering
the other (whilst the bride and bride-
groom are away at a ball) in order to steal the in-
criminating documents from beneath the mattress
of the bridal couch. Pennilove doesn’t find the
letters and photographs, but he gets discovered
himself by two burglars—one of them serio and
the other comic—who leave him to the wrath of
the lawful occupants of the bed. His wife like-
wise tracks him to the other lady’s sleeping apart-
ment, and in his wild escape from the premises
he gets damaged. Pennilove’s troubles terminate
in his earnest renunciation of Chapman, after that
airy adventurer has been put to confusion by the
married lady from the burgled bedroom. The
farce is a good acting piece, consequently some
of the characters suffer considerably at the hands
of the Hawtrey co. Mrs. G. B. Lewis, as Penni-
love’s wife, is the only convincing actress engaged
on the contract. One of the other four —a Miss
Mary Bancroft —has more brightness and less ex-
perience than the other three. Hawtrey makes
Pennilove too old and heavy, and C. P. Hammond,
as the dashing Chapman, is still an amateur in his
restlessness. He seems unable to keep his hands
off the man he is talking to. Gregan MacMahon
is a satisfactory man-servant, whereas Heggie is a
loud, inhuman captain, and the comic burglar of
Oily Deering might be more pungently played by
that humorous veteran. G. W. Elton fills in the
part of the gloomy felon, and does it very well.
Considering that Melbourne has been prone to
accept a lot of future musical celebrity on trust, it
would be only a fair and business-like thing to bill
Elton’s farcical-comedy as the work of the coming
Australian Pinero, and trust to Providence to
justify the predictive title.
* * * *
An uncommendable “ comedy-drama ” of
the most ancient American pattern came to light
at Melb. Royal last Saturday. It was called
“Way Down South,” and the central figure was
a coal-black lady who undertook to work her
fingers ter de bone for a salary of ten dollars a
month on behalf of two full-grown orphan
childer, de offspring of de plump cullur’d pusson’s
deceased massa. Maggie Moore was the black
Samaritana in question, and her feelings burst
into song what time de good Lord watched over
the orphans in their distress. This piebald narra-
tive held the stage for three nights only. “ Arrah-
na-pogue ” is the programme to-night (Thursday)
and to-morrow, and “The Widow from Japan”
will follow on Saturday, with the intention of
stimulating business for the final week of Maggie
Moore’s season. “The Widow’s” intentions are
understood to be strictly frivolous, which is all in
favor of the season’s last nights.
* * # *
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.), the bulky
gorgeousness of the latest musical comedy fills
Melbourne’s perennial want. To the public, who
must love something in the tuneful frivolity line,
it might as well be “ The Toreador ” as anything
else, and now that the tired tenor Gussie has some-
what accelerated his pace the performance is
brighter than at first. Miss Young, in a
rich red insurrectionary costume, lends a
flavor of Carmen to the plot. The weird
bandmaster from the Lunatic Asylum is a vola-
tile Spaniard, and the labored eccentricity
of Hugh Ward’s dance (Ward dances as correctly
as a problem from Euclid) has a pretty orchestral
accompaniment, like the bouquet song which Miss
Lulu Evans warbles in tremulous tones. Some
nights'last week Miss Chetwynd took the place of
Miss Carrie Moore, and the lightsome Maud was
perhaps more pleasing than Carrie. At any rate,
she gambolled with less self-consciousness, and
her eyes didn’t appear to be competing for the
cake. People complain that Carrie’s lustrous orbs
are too demonstrative.
** * *
“Charlie’s Aunt” will complete a satis-
factory fortnight at the Princess’s on Friday.
The remaining six nights of Thornton’s season
have been set apart for “The Private Secretary,”
and Thornton’s reappearance as the good shep-
herd with the rubber soles and Bath bun will
happen on Saturday. The “P.S.” is about the
finest of all moral lessons for the local clergy,
but up to now it has owed nothing to Christian
Er de ivor. The meek and lowly victim of chronic
inf u inza is still waiting for a free advt. from the
pulpit.
** # *
At the Opera House they have an excep-
tionally smart bill. The Sidney Drews, always
interesting, produced their best entertainment on
Saturday, and scored a genuine success with it.
“The Yellow Dragon ” is a strong playlet wherein
Mrs. Drew appears as a nicely-gilded widow in
danger of sudden death from the Boxers at Pekin,
and Drew i 3 the alert Yank who saves the lady
and himself with the assistance of two or three
minor characters. Cinquevalli and his man
Friday are the centre of the show, as usual,
and another amazing “turn” is supplied
by the Schenk Brothers —Willie and Charlie.
One Schenk balances his alleged brother on his
hand, or his head, as gracefully as the brother
balances himself. The topmost Schenk is marvel-
lous, and the Schenk below reflects equal credit
on the family. Fred Poplar and Kitty Wager
are acceptable items in the Rickards show,
although they have rather too much, to sing for
themselves. Florrie Gallimore, who is even more
prolonged and less acceptable, will leave the
Opera House this week. The lady in question has
been there for about six months—it has seemed
six months, anyhow—and the present scribe has
heard her sing the same old sort of song in 93 dif-
ferent dresses. The variety of her skirts was only
exceeded by the sameness of her songs.
## * *
Fitzgeralds’ Circus and the menagerie
attached thereto drew a mighty crowd to the re-
opening last Saturday night. The original iron
Temple of Gee, where neither moth nor rust, doth
corrupt, and rain cannot soak through and trickle,
has been multiplied by two, and the animals in
the outer watertight compartment are greeting
their new quarters with roars of satisfaction. Also
the show has taken on some latest improve-
ments in the lighting department, so that when
Dan Fitzgerald stands talking to Commodore
he shines almost as brightly as George Rignold at
the Battle of Agincourt. Taking it altogether,
Fitzgerald’s Circus gives full. value for cash.
Many things that used to occur in the arena or on
the trapezes overhead are happening again with a
slight difference, and the differences are mostly in
favor of the present show. An exciting novelty—-
i.e., a novelty at the Circus —is the Cycle Whiz. The
Lotto Troupe introduced cycle whizzing to Aus-
tralia last Xmas, and now our old but youthful
friends Harry Cardello and Ernest Shand are
showing how easy it is for a skilled circus per-
former to bike at an acute angle. Nothing comes
difficult to an active and intelligent citizen who
has acquired the habit of turning somersaults on a
naked horse.
** # #
At Adelaide Royal, “ Mice and Men ” ran
its appointed course—the one week, beyond which
it is rash to tempt fortune in that city. Business
for that week was excellent. George Musgrove
told an interviewer that, for an absolute fact, the
piece is better played here than it was in London.
There is now being played “A Modern Magdalen,”
by Haddon Chambers—“first production in any
country.” Adelaide, remembering its early privi-
leges in connection with “ The Toreador ” and
“Sherlock Holmes,” begins to wonder whether it
is a critical centre whose approval must at all
hazards be gained in advance, or merely the con-
venient Dog on whom experiments are tried.
The Tivoli, after remaining closed for a week, has
welcomed the W. Anderson co., and settled down
to wipe out C. Holloway’s record for Dangerous
Women by looking upon “ The Worst Woman in
London.”
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Losses made last financial year on some Aus-
tralian railway systems—through building with money
borrowed at absurdly high rates of interest. The figures
for N.S.W. and Tasmania are a close approximation only,
pending the arrival of exact details. Those for N.S.W.
are based on the Auditor General’s figures for 1901, with
an allowance for decreased revenue in 1902 :
Queensland .. .. .. £449,946
New South Wales .. .. 184,000
Victoria .. •• 163,226
Tasmania .. .. 100,000
South Australia 74,129
Northern Territory .. .. 63,093
From four of these States (Tasmania being the possible
exception) there come bitter complaints that, to prevent
the deficit looking any worse, repairs are being postponed
till the lines are getting into a dangerous state of disre-
pair. The railways of the Australian mainland earn on
an average; close on 31 per cent., but when they have to
earn nearly 4 per cent, in order to pay interest on loans,
the position becomes impossible. The railways of the
United Kingdom, with six times as many people for every
mile of line, only earned in 1900 (the last year for which
writer has statistics by him) £3 Bs. 2d. per cent. The
Australian mainland lines earn as much as British lines
do—and Australia pays better wages for shorter hours,
and its railways are expected to charge, in reasonably
thicklv-peopled districts, no more than British rates, and
in the backblocks to carry water free in drought time,
and starving stock for next to nothing. And when, with
these handicaps, they only pay as much interest on cost
as British lines do, there is a cry in many quarters that
State ownership is a failure. Australia expects altogether
too much from its State railways.
* * * *
The motion put on the notice-paper of N.S.W.
Assembly by Griffith, M.L.A., to the effect that “the
financial condition of the State” demands the imposition
of an absentee tax, is opportune. There is a general
feeling in Australia that something is about to happen.
The language used of late about our loans and securities
by the papers of Pawnbroker Bull is more disrespectful
than ever it was before. Such authorities as the
Economist talk openly about the necessity of cutting off
the supplies. The last Victorian loan was mostly left in
the hands of the underwriters. The last N.S.W. loan
was floated by offering it far below the figure at which
the Victorian loan went aground, but N.S.W. securities
have dropped so badly since then that it is practically
certain the next loan will have to be offered at a still
lower figure. M'Culloch, M.L.A., of Victoria, has come
back, after fishing in the troubled waters of London,
with the report that more loans are practically impossible.
Maoriland is trying to borrow at a high rate in Australia
because Bull’s inhospitable door has banged. If loans
really cease for any length of time, Australia brings up
hard against the fact that it has to pay more, in interest
on public debts and in incomes to absentee mortgagees
and landlords, than it can pay in these bad times, simply
because the money to pay it with isn’t here.
If a sufficient inducement can be offered to the
absentee landlord and investor to come back and live in
Australia, then several millions a year of the liability dis-
appears at once. The individual who draws £30,000 a
year out of Australia, and spends it out of Australia,
costs the country, as a whole, just that much. If the
same individual lives here and spends his £30,000 a year
here, he costs the country, as a whole, nothing at all. If
such a heavy tax is put upon the rich Australian absentee
that he has to come back and live in Australia, the
amount thus saved may just rescue the country from
bankruptcy. Certainly when Australia can’t export the
interest on its foreign debt and the incomes of its absen-
tees, because there isn’t enough money in the country to
do both things, and when it can’t borrow the money any
longer, it must either tax its absentee so heavily that he
must needs come back, or it must cease to pay interest
on its public debt. And it isn’t worth while incurring
the disgrace of public bankruptcy merely that the Wilson
and Cooper and D’Arcy clan may eat and drink with the
aristocracy in London.
The Royal Bank op Australia (Melbourne)
shows an increased profit for the eleventh half-year in
succession: ~ , , _
Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves
March, 1897 £3398 3 per cent. = £2250 £ll4B £ll4B
Sept., 1897 3625 3 *„ „ 2250 1375 2523
March, 1898 3865 3 „ „ 2250 1615 4138
Sept., 1898 4088 3 „ „ 2250 1838 5976
March, 1899 4315 3 „ „ 2250 2065 8041
Sept., 1899 4624 3 „ „ 2250 2374 10,415
March, 1900 5843 4 ~ ~ 3000 2843 13,258
Sept., 1900 5863 4 „ „ 3000 2863 16,121
March, 1901 6488 5 ~ ~ 3750 2/38 18,859
Sept., 1901 6700 5 „ „ 3750 2950 21,809
March, 1902 7061 6 ~ ~ 3760 3311 25,120
Sept., 1902 7095 5 „ ~ 3750 3345 28,465
The earnings represent £8 2s. Id. per cent, per annum
on the shareholders’ funds as at the commencement of
the half-year (capital, £150,000 ; reserves, £25,120 ; total,
£175,120). There is a slight falling away, as com-
pared with the £8 4s. sd. per cent, per annum earned
during the half-year to March, 1902 ; still, it is above the
average rate. The Royal Bank’s business .continues to
grow in a substantial fashion. Compared with a year ago
the principal increases are: —
Sept., Sept., Increase
1901. 1902. i cr s
Note Circulation .. £5,906 £5,940 £34
Profits 6,700 7,095 395
Reserves .. .. 21,809 28,465 6,656
Cash, &c., on hand .. 181,300 188,674 7,374
Advances .. .. 511,980 527,775 15,795
State Securities .. 60,000 95,195 35,195
All Liquid Assets .. 241,300 283,869 42,569
Deposits .. .. 552,460 612,778 60,318
This all looks like good progress, and the reserve of
cash and liquid securities is substantial, being equal to
34£ per cent, of all liabilities to the public. The Royal
Bank has so far lived in rented premises, but the manage-
ment, being evidently not superstitious, has bought for
£50,000 the old City of Melbourne Bank building, Curse
and all. It is said to be fairly worth £60,000, but there
must be a terrible number of ghosts about that old corner
structure, and £lO,OOO is none too much to knock off
when the Curse and the ghosts are taken into account.
* • • »
The Colonial Bank op Australasia, Limited
(Melbourne), dating from the time when the old reserve
and a portion of the capital were written off and things
started afresh :
Dividends on Added
Profits. Preference to
Shares. Reserves.
March, 1899 .. £5,601 3 p.c. = £4,561 £lO4O £1,040
Sept., 1899.. 7,078 3 „ „ 4,561 2517 3,557
£3060 of Forfeited Capital added to Reserves.. 6,617
March, 1900 .. 11,472 4 p.c. = 6,081 5391 12,008
Sept., 1900.. 12,019 4 „ „ 6,081 5938 17,946
March, 1901.. 13,718 5 ~ „ 7,601 6117 24,063
Sept., 1901.. 15,069 5 ~ ~ 7,601 7468 31,531
Dividends on
all Shares.
March, 1902.. 17,173 5 „ „ 10,942 6231 37,762
Sept., 1902.. 16,264 5 „ „ 10,961 5303 43,065
The profits represent £6 16s. lOd. per cent, per .annum on
the shareholders’ funds, as they stood at the commence-
ment of the half-year (capital £437,686, and reserves
£37,762 ; total, £475,448). This is a considerable falling
away from the rate (£7 6s. 6d. per cent.) earned last half-
year ; still it is sufficient to make a very substantial
addition to the reserves.
Compared with last September the principal
figures stand thus :
190 L 1902.’ InCrease ’
Reserves .. .. £31,531 £43,065 £11,534
Profits •• •• 15,069 16,264 1,195
Decrease.
Note Circulation.. 108,651 107,815 836
Cash and Liquid
Securities .. 497,834 477,860 19,974
Bills in Circulation 105,287 40,592 64,695
Deposits .. .. 2,475,731 2,206,631 269,100
Advances.. .. 2,380,416 2,095,920 284,496
This is a rather remarkable series of decreases, though the
repayment of the last instalment of the reconstructed
deposits (£111,358) partly accounts for the diminution.
The reserve of cash and liquid securities represents barely
20 per cent, of all liabilities to the public, which is a far
weaker reserve than the average. The Colonial Bank has
always had a habit of keeping its cash reserves low, and,
though this policy of investing every possible copper may
be good for the profits, it isn’t a wise policy in a time of
sudden stress. The Colonial only holds, as a second line
of defence, £12,274 in State and municipal securities,
whereas a very much smaller bank, the Royal, of Mel-
bourne, holds £95,000, and the contrast doesn’t look well.
Certainly, the earnings are very respectable and the
reserve-fund is making good progress, but much greater
care should be taken to make sure that the reserve can
be found if a sudden demand for it arises.
The Colonial Bank, however, has one immense
recommendation. Its business lies wholly in Victoria,
and wholly in the better-watered portions of Victoria,
and it has kept religiously out of the drought area. This
will mean a great deal in the long run.
* • * •
The sort of language that is now used about us
by Pawnbroker Bull. Extract from the Economist
(London) : “ In face of the condition of affairs, the subject
of Australian public borrowing, however stale it may be,
ought to receive renewed attention. Without repeating
the arguments against the continuance of the borrowing
policy, the conviction may be recorded that, just as
surely as the banking crash of 1893 became inevitable
several years previously, a disastrous crisis will occur in
Australian public finance, unless British investors decline,
before it is too late, to lend any more money, a step
whichjwould compel economical management.”
From another English paper—the Western
Mercury : “ It is clear the money-market is getting tired
of colonial loans, and especially those of the separate
States of Australia. These latter have been constant
borrowers for some time, and there is no question that
their credit is being seriously impaired. ‘Spendthrift
Australia ’ is the term applied a day or two back on the
contents-bills of one of the financial papers; and the
epithet, though a harsh one, only represents what a good
many people are thinking. There is an impression that
two of the States are not paying their way, but living


TRAMWAYS
TRAMWAYS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Proprietary, Ltd.,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material
pF" Locomotives from, 10 to 250 ji.p.
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel
Sleepers, Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical
advice gratuitously rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated
Catalogues and Photographic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different
parts of the World, upon application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
FOR SALE . . .
Assaying & Metallurgical Business.
Principal City. Plant and Fixtures Complete.
Splendid opportunity progressive energetic man.
HETAL, “Bulletin,” Melbourne.
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of, Australia. Properties offered
must be subject toinspection. Cable address* “Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * « »
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
♦ * * •
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-street, Melbourne,
having returned from his visit to England, is now pre-
pared to purchase approved Mines and Mining Properties
situated in any part of Australasia requiring Capital for
Development and Machinery. Only genuine and
legitimate ventures, capable of bearing the strictest
examinations, will be entertained.*
* * * *
A revolution in smelting furnaces seems pro-
bable. The aid of gasoline has not been recognised.
Ernest de Beer, 439 Bourke-street. Melbourne, supplies
forms to suit assayers, which are marvellous in their
efficiency.*
* * * *
The Local Government Journal, London,
writes of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society’s
latest report:—“ There is no stopping the progress of
the Colonial Mutual and this is just as it should be. We
always claim to hold a brief in favor of good, sound,
unselfish management.”
• * • *
To Mine Managers who use Suction, Drill or
Air Hose, Packing, Valves, etc. The Dunlop Rubber
Mills, Melbourne, want your business. In return they
offer you the finest rubber goods in Australasia, at prices
unequalled by any other house. Depots in all States.
Samples and Prices on application. One trial solicited.
* * * *
The great success of the Wilfley patent Con-
centrator since its merits became known to the mining
community of Australia, has led to imitations and
piracies under various names being placed upon the
market. The Wilfley Ore Concentrator Syndicate of
London, who own the Australian patents have decided to
prosecute all users and vendors of concentrating machines
infringing their patents, and action has been commenced
in Victoria. Similar action to protect their rights had to
be taken in America, where the Supreme Court has
upheld Wilfley’s patents, granting an injunction and
damages against the users and vendors of the infringing
machine. The sole manufacturers in Australia of Wilfley’s
patent concentrator are the Austral Otis Engineering
Company of South Melbourne, who supply customers
direct or through any of their accredited agents in the
various mining centres.*
* * • *
Complaints of stagnation in the engineering
trade are as rife as ever, but, judging by the large stock
of Refrigerating and Ice-making- machinery now at the
engineering works of Mephan Ferguson, Melbourne, he
must expect to do a large business in these machines
during the coming summer season. The prices for all
sizes have been greatly reduced, and purchasers are
invited to inspect and test these Refrigerators before
purchasing. This firm has also introduced up-to-date
machinery for manufacturing bolts and nuts, rivets, dog
spikes and every discription of ironwork.*
• * * *
The best investment in Australia is buying land
at Esperance, Western Australia, the 2. the
Kalgoorlie goldfields. With a railway, Esperance will
become one of our busiest ports, as the trade with the
goldfields will pass through it. A permanent survey is
now being made. The railway is a certainty. Get in
early and make a fortune by purchasing a few blocks
before the great rush sets in. Price, £2O block; terms,
£1 a month. Write for plans and particulars to The
Perth Land Company, 101 Swanston-street, Melbourne *
• * * *
About the best Brand for Sheep now in the
market is Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and
is considerably cheaper than any other. It will dissolve
in the scour, and should certainly be used by those who
hope to get a good price for their wool. E. Rich and Co.,
Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks. *
* * * *
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£494,910 is invested m the States. Lowest rates and
prompt settlements.*
* ¥ * *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Price Is. 6d., post free.*
* * * *
It turns out that the East-of-the-Mississippi
lead-combine, lately talked of in a cable message, was a
move among makers of leaden goods and not among lead
producers.
SWEET SLICED MANGO
“SUN BRAND” INDIAN CHUTNEY
Quarts and Pints, obtainable from all reputable
Grocers and Storekeepers throughout the Com-
monwealth of Australia and New Zealand.
Insist on getting - - ‘‘ SIJN BRAND.’?
on capital, while another is indulging in public works to
such an extent as to create suspicion that toomuoh is being
done to retain the favor of the Labor leaders. In finan-
cial circles it is felt that, unless there is a check, Aus-
tralian securities will some day be found depreciated to a
disastrous extent."
* • « •
The Newcastle Building and Investment Co.
Limited (Newcastle, N.S.W.) is a concern with a paid-up
capital of £83,888. It was registered in 1896, and took
over the Newcastle Permanent Investment and Building
Society. It took over also a heavy mass (much over
£lOO,OOO worth) of properties in possession. The institu-
tion taken over had a paid-up capital of £171,249 and
hardly any reserves. Apparently a large portion of the
paid-up capital was applied to form a contingency fund
to cover losses on realisation of the foreclosed properties.
The record of the new concern for the last four years is
as follows :
Reserves
(including
Written Contingency
Profit. Dividends. off. Fund).
1898 £52,203
1899 £4911 4 per cent. =£3356 £390 53,368
1900 5322 5 „ 4195 2256 52,239
1901 5159 6 „ 5033 1900 50,465
1902 6084 6 „ 5033 424 51,092
The reserves consist of contingency fund (which is steadily
diminishing, being applied to cover losses on the sale of
foreclosed properties) £43,042; and undivided profit,
£BO5O. During the past four years the amount added to
reserves out of earnings has been £3859, which is a
reasonably large amount, but not too large. There
appears to be every probability that the contingency fund
will more than cover all losses (the properties in posses-
sion are now £78,177, and the total assets £154,414 ; and
a contingency account of £43,042 looks a very solid pro-
vision against these). All the same, the formation of a
permanent reserve fund is highly advisable. The New-
castle Building and Investment Co. is nL v one of the
largest and most prosperous concerns of its kind in
N.S.W. An especially good feature is that it trades
almost entirely with its own capital, deposits amounting
to only £16,237.
» * * •
Even at this late hour the See Government
would do well to pass an amending Act as regards the
Sydney land resumptions, and make payment in ‘A\ per
cent, long-dated or 4 per cent, short-dated State securi-
ties compulsory. To ask Bull for another £3,000,000 for
resumptions together with £3,000,000 to keep the
Owe’Suilivan pot boiling generally is like courting disas-
ter. The method proposed would at least make £3,000,000
of new debt a local (or mostly-local) instead of foreign
liability, and that in itself is a great deal gained.
» * * *
Some strange whiffs from the malodorous
Queensland State Department which buys up big estates
from more or less influential persons for closer settlement
purposes:
Divisional Price r,.~
out*. v f»"0 ■"'sr
Valuation per ” er
per acre. acre. acre.
Seaforth .. .. £0 12 6 £3 13 0 £3 0 6
Rosewood .. .. 1 0 7 3 12 6 2 11 11
Gowrie .. .. 2 10 0 400 1 10 0
Glengallan, Block 1 2 10 7 3 19 7 190
Lake Clarendon .. 0 16 2 200 13 10
Pinelands .. .. 150 200 0 15 0
Glengallan, Block 2 2 10 7 3 5 0 0 14 5
Clifton, Block 2.. 220 2 12 0 0 10 0
Clifton, Block 3.. 1 10 4 200 098
This isn’t anything like the whole list—merely a few
items to go on with.
* » •
Maoriland is trying to borrow money both
locally and in Australia at 4 per cent., which lends
additional weight to the persistent rumor that Premier
Seddon sounded the London market about another loan,
and the market snorted at him. S.A. is trying to bor-
row a little £239,000 locally at 3J per cent. Westralia
also proposes trying to raise £750,000 locally, but in
addition the James Ministry proposes to provide £212,490
out of revenue for railways and other works formerly
charged to loans. Treasurer Gardiner says indignantly
that borrowing in London and getting £B7 10s. net for
every £lOO of stock is “ buying money.” The trouble is
that, while some other States are taking in sail a little,
N.S.W. is committed to so many things, including land
resumptions and unfinished railways, that it can’t take
in sail without the mast going overboard.
* * * *
The Civil Service Mutual Building and
Investment Society (Sydney)—a somewhat belated report
covering the period up to 30th June, 1902 :
Profits. Dividends. Wr i« en D Net
off. Reserves.
1895 .. £2,054
1896 .. £504 2J per cent. = £379 £217 1,962
1897 .. 501 2 1 „ „ 379 2,084
1898 .. 613 2* „ „ 379 2,318
1899 .. 486 2j „ „ 379 2,425
1900 .. 468 li „ „ 190 1,501 1,202
1901 .. 451 2£ „ „ 379 975 299
1902 .. 546 2£ „ „ 379 466
The Civil Service Mutual Building and Investment Society
is considering a proposal for amalgamation with a larger
institution. There is nothing wrong with it, except that
it is so exceedingly small that working expenses swallow
up more than half the gross earnings. A very small office
can’t be worked so economically as a large one, and this
society had the misfortune to start just before the great
financial crash, when the public faith in building societies
was so badly shaken that there has been no chance since
then for a small institution to grow to profitable dimen-
sions. To keep an office, staff, and directorate to look
after £lB,OOO worth of investments is hardly payable.
• * • *
Broken Hill: B.H. Block 14, which, having
some ore contracts and slimes on hand, kept its smelters
at Pt. Adelaide going after the mine and mill had been
closed, has now run down the furnaces, too. This
doesn’t knock Broken Hill any flatter, but it adds a drop
of bitter to Adelaide’s cup of woe, and is given as one of
the reasons why the Treasurer had to amend his esti-
mates. Official (Mines Dept.) figures show that, of the
B.H. mines now working, the Central (Sulphide Oorp.)
last year sent down 21 cubic yards of mullock to fill in
worked-out stopes for 100 tons of ore taken out; Block 10
20yds., B.H. Prop. 16, South 13. This year the South
has been doing more. It was said here a while ago that
underground collapses are most common near the boun-
dary of two mines. The plain fact is that one
co. tries to steal a march on the other, and, by digging
out every possible ton of ore itself and neglecting to fill
up the old workings, throws the responsibility and the
expense of keeping up that part of the lode upon its
neighbor. If it had not been for this it is exceedingly
doubtful whether two recent slips, one of them butchering
two men, would have occurred. The matter doesn’t seem
to have had as much attention from mine inspectors as it
deserves. The crush in the Central, and the very nar-
row escape of Kintore shaft (it was only saved by a solid
60ft. pillar left standing against it), ought to hurry up the
sinking of that absolutely essential second shaft at the
neighboring South. A comparatively small movement
might completely disable the South for a couple of years,
because its one working shaft is sunk right in the lode.
The remarkably good results got by the South in its
last half-year were largely due to the re-treatment of stuff
which had previously been through the old mill but was
still rich. It was reported then that the supply of this
profitable material would be exhausted by the end of this
year ; but recent tests prove that more of it is worth re-
treating than had been estimated.——The Victoria 8.H.,
which may prove profitable with lead at about £l3, has
stopped work.
» « * •
A ’Change rumor that was struck at half-a-
dozen times this month, but still refused to die, was that
Broken Hill’s water-supply was just about finished. One
circumstantial story was that the co. had given notice to
the mining co.’s that it was down to its last few jugfuls.
Well, the position is bad enough, but it isn’t quite so bad
as that. A few figures (from the co.’s reports mostly)
will probably do more good than a column of loose talk
(all quantities are in gallons, thousands omitted) :
Half-year Oonsump- Quantity rinntonfa Evapo-
to tion. Caught. oontents - ration.
June, 1898.. 62,937 1,966,482
Dec., 1898 .. 87,482 1,157,491 721,509
June, 1899.. 93,852 993,619 1,456,128 601,129
Dec., 1899 .. 94,350 45,350 779,896 627,232
June, 1900 .. 112,966 552,288 721,657 497,660
Dec., 1900 .. 129,278 62,133 339,242 305,169
June, 1901 .. 93,617 945,529 549,636 641,500
Dec., 1901 .. 71,767 639,186 873,306 243,700
June, 1902 .. 88,368 61,308 427,858 295,750
Quarter to
Sept. 30,’02.. 40,000 Nil 387,858 T
(Less eva-
poration)
Since Dec. 1900, an allowance of 15 per cent, has been
made for siltage. In the few cases where the company’s
figures are not available, the estimates are based on the
data of previous figures. If it were not for evaporation, the
387 million gallons would last 2£ years ; but generally, the
loss by evaporation is four times greater than the con-
sumption, or more. It is essential, then, to estimate the
evaporation. As the water-surface diminishes, the loss,
of course, diminishes. When, at the beginning of an
earlier half-year, there was 549 million gallons stored,
the loss in that half-year was 243 million gallons ; with
427 millions stored, at the beginning of the current half-
year, the loss might be 200 million —that seems a very
iiberal estimate. With a consumption of 80 millions per
half year, this would leave 147 millions at the end of Dec.
The loss by evaporation would then be further reduced,
so that, assuming that the company’s measurements are
correct, and they were checked at the end of 1900 by the
Govt, hydrographical surveyor, it does not look as though
the supply will absolutely fail until after the end of Feb.,
at any rate. What its quality is going to be when that
bottom layer is reached isn’t too nice to think about.
Already it is making the Silverton Tram Co.’s loco, boilers
very sick. And wl, .r will happen if, as is often the case,
there are no summer rains, is another thing that isn’t
nice to think about.
* * * •
The stoppage of the Block 14 smelters at Port
Adelaide will throw 250 men out of work, and will cause
a loss of £550 a week in wages. The whole plant is now
at a standstill, and will remain so until lead goes up
another pound or two a ton. The first smelting works in
Australia were established at Port Adelaide 50 years ago
to treat the copper from Burra, but they were removed
to N.S.W. long ago by the English and Australian Co.
which ran them.
* • • »
The greedy maw of the Broken Hill mines!
Campbell, one of two young men buried alive in the
Central mine the other day, had, by different accidents
in this same group of mines, lost a brother and a brother-
in-law. In 10 years 163 men have been killed, 281 seri-
ously injured (many of them permanently), and 486 others
less seriously. And these are independent of the victims
of lead-poisoning, now happily much fewer than formerly.
A man who has worked there gives a graphic
description of the place where the two miners were
trapped and buried in the latest fall of ground at Broken
Hill. They were “mullocking”—that is, filling up the
worked-out parts of the mine with rock shot down from
the surface. This stuff is tipped into winzes, or passes,
and diverted to almost any part by chutes, worked by
trap-doors or slides. As the places are gradually filled up
the “mullockers” have to work on their hands and
knees. In order to reach the chute which the two men
were “working” at the time of the accident, one man
had to drag himself forward, lying full length—no room
for him to either rise or turn. The other man stood, or
crouched, a little distance back, in case anything
went wrong. When the door was pulled back and
the 70-truck load of rock roared and rattled down
the chute to the next check, 60ft. below, the ground
used to shake, and loose stuff fell around the workman,
who, having opened the chute, must spring back as far as
his prone position would let him. For doing that sort of
work, when they are lucky, they get Bs. 4d. a day, and,
when they’re not, they get a ride in an ambulance—pretty
often with all the flaps down.
* * * •
Last week maize reached 6s. 6d. a bushel whole-
sale in Sydney—the highest for many years.
• • • •
N.S.W. dredging co.s make a poor showing in
divs. Jembaicumbene is a conspicuous exception to the
rule, while Araluen Con. is an equally notable example of
it. This co. won 3030 z. in July, 4300 z. in Aug., 408 oz. in
Sept., and for three weeks of this month (one dredge idle
for a fortnight) 2440 z. It has had good returns all
through, excepting for a month or so, and, even then,
with economical management, enough to pay exes., yet
it is over 12 months since it declared a div. The second
dredge was bought from the Shoalhaven Terraces Co. on
strangely liberal terms for the latter. Most derelict
dredging co.s consider themselves lucky if they get a
quarter of what their plants cost, but this Shoalhaven co.
got 14,000 fully-paid Araluen Con. shares, worth, at the
time, 7s. 6d. per share, afterwards rising to Bs. 6d., and
£lOOO cash, or (say) £6500, the Araluen Co. having to pay
cost of removal and re-erection of dredge 1 If directors
are as generous in all their transactions no wonder that
shareholders have to complain of the paucity of divs. Not
one of the Turon or Macquarie dredging co.s has paid a
div., and there is not the remotest chance of any one
doing so. Turon was a name to conjure with, and it was
conjured with for all it was worth, as many people know
to their sorrow. Shares, which once could be got only as
a personal favor—as was alleged—at £3, would now be
dear at as many shillings, if not pence. The harm done
by the Turon boom is not to be gauged by individual
losses, but by the general mistrust of mining ventures
which it engendered.
•.• • •
Baker’s Creek (N.S.W.), has struck a new reef—
a 6in. vein is called a reef in this mine—running parallel
with Smith’s reef. From the latter, co. paid nearly
£250,000 in divs., and new lode is reported to be equally
rich. So far it is only a newspaper report, and the market
indicates that speculators are sceptical.
• * * »
Sydney Harbor Collieries Co. making good
headway with progressive work. Drives being extended
on coal seam met with in shaft at the rate of 25yds. per
week. Seam gradually widening. Coal of excellent
quality. Officials believe that main seam is located about
350yds. south of shaft in a direct line, but co. could not
drive straight for it without encroaching on other
property, and a dog’s-hind-leg level, twice the necessary
length, has to be driven.
* * • *
“May-day”: Never heard of the mine. Any
report from that district must be taken with an extra
quantity of salt. Local men have made lying a fine art.
* * * m
Late copper statistics look a bit better. A
while back, it. seemed as though consumption had eased
off, but the deliveries are increasing again. The trouble
in the market no doubt arises from the accumulated
American stocks. Copper statistics are for the most part
a huge fake, but, as far as can be made out, supplies
increased over 70,000 tons as the result of the 1900 boom.
At the end of the year (1901) there was, it was believed,
over 120,000 tons in the States. The consumption at the
low prices is very large, but, with most of the mines still
going hard (some of them harder than ever in the hope of
levelling-up profits), it takes a long while to wipe the
slate clean.
* * * *
Divs. paid by 23 Maoriland dredging co.’s in
August, £17,845. There were 119 dredges at work, which
produced 13,4050 z. ; average per dredge per month being
112 oz. This dredging business is not as profitable as is
generally supposed ; only a trifle over a third of the
product is returned in divs. For the year ended August,
Otago and Southland dredges produced 91,0750 z., and
West Coast dredges 28,2400 z. Total, 119,3150 z., of the
value of £442,975 ; average per dredge per week being
about 30oz. These figures do not include returns from
private dredges.
* • * *
Waihi, M.L., continues to treat about 12,000
tons of ore per month of an average value of £3 per ton.
Reports state that developments in the lower levels are
very satisfactory, and that there are several years’ work
in actual sight. Capital of co. was reoently Increased by
the issue of 150,000 shares.
* • • *
Chairman of Mt. Garnet told shareholders last
week that water was very short, and that unless there
was immediate rain, there was a risk that the co.
would not be in a position to meet the interest on
debentures due 28th Nov. He omitted to explain, how-
ever, that the co. had abundant water conserved, but for
the sake of an expenditure of €3OOO had failed to connect
the reservoir with the works. A reliable N.Q. paper
states that on Oct. Ist there was a depth of Bffc. of water
thrown back for nearly a mile-and-a-half, and a fortnight
before the depth was 16ft., quite enough to run the
smelter well into next year, could only half the
water have been saved in transit. It has to
travel_ four miles down Return Greek ere reaching the
receiving dam at the pump station. About half-way there
is a heavy depth of sand which had literally absorbed all
the water that had been flowing for the previous fortnight
through a lOin. pipe from the reservoir. The paper adds —
“It does indeed seem a pity that such a large body of
water should run to waste these dry times. But the only
way to avoid it was by the laying of piping at an esti-
mated cost of something Hke £3OOO, and this the co. is
not in a position to do, as all works being carried on are of
necessity of a purely productive nature.” Surely, under
the circumstances, laying of pipes to utilise this water
was about the most legitimate productive work that the
co. could undertake ! Comment on such management
would be superfluous.
* * » *
In the absence of a balance-sheet and printed
reports it is quite impossible to comprehend the exact
position of the Mt. Garnet Co., but such information as
the directors have thought fit to give reveals a shocking
state of affairs. Failure is admitted, and it is quite as.
ghastly as was that of Chillagoe. The figures supplied
show that from Ist January to 6th October, 41,500 tons of
ore were smelted. The average value of the metal is
stated to be £4 6s. per ton of ore, so that the gross value
of the product would be over £175,000, yet on working
account there has been a loss of £1350. For the
first six months the loss was £15,679, while from
Ist June to 6th October there was said to have
been an approximate gain of £14,329. There is such
a disparity between the two sets of figures that it would
be interesting to know how the approximate gain was
arrived at. Anyhow, assuming that it was a legitimate
gain, it reveals anything but the economical management
which was promised when the co. was floated. The value
of the product from June 1 to Oct. 6 was over £78,000 and
the profit was but a trifle over 15s. per ton. Position of
co. now is that after spending £62,000 on plant and treat-
ing about £250,000 worth of ore it owns nothing. All the
liquid assets in the shape of matte and surpluses
on consignments belong to the bank, and the free-
hold is liable to be seized by the railway con-
tractors, who hold it as collateral security to
the debentures which were issued to cover the
cost of the railway. So far, the mine is practically
worked out. It is assumed that there are reasonable
chances of further payable ore-bodies being found, but
who are likely to put up the money to do the necessary pros-
pecting work, seeing that a start will have to be made
with an admitted debt of £lOO,OOO ? Chairman Higgins
summed up the position accurately when he said that
“ the whole story emphasises how desirable it is to make
conservative estimates with regard to the quantities of
ore available, and to thoroughly prospect a property
before erecting extensive works and accumulating large
quantities of stores.”
* • • «
C. F. Valentine (Mt. Garnet) states that a par
re Coolgarra Tin Mine (20/9/’O2) is not correct. The par
gave what purported to be assay and battery results, and
Mr. Valentine states that the “ so-called battery results
are neither more nor less than another man’s estimates,
based on very rough and ready sampling. The only
crushing, which was of stone from No. 1 shaft, took place
prior to my visit to the mine, and returned 4 per cent,
tin."
* • * •
Charters Towers record for the past 9 months :
157,541 tons; 162,5070 z. ; cyanide, 102,7440z5. ; total,
265,2510 z. ; divs., £290,958; calls, £66,495. September
divs., £55,000 ; calls, £15,000.
* * * •
The values of Queensland quartz treated during
September were : C.T., £4 4s. 9d. per ton; Croydon,
£3 3s. 3d. ; Gympie, £3 2s. 9d.; Gladstone, £4 os. 2d. ;
Mt. Morgan, £2 7s. Bd. ; Ravenswood, £8 9s. 4d.
•.* * *
The extent of the boom and collapse in Charters
Towers stocks is shown in this statement of the market
value of quoted stocks on dates given : March Ist,
£2,547,400; June, 19, £3,102,179; July 14, £3,622,488;
Aug. 28, £4,200,181 ; Oct. 1, £2,578,968. Taking the
market value of new co’s. (not included in these figures)
at £150,000, the total value of stocks at the zenith of the
boom was not far short of £4,400,000. The highest total
value in the ’9l boom was £3,395,348, or over £1,000,000
less than that of ’O2. The fall in the five weeks preceding
Oct. 1 was £1,621,213. There has been a slight recovery
since then, but even now on the law of investment
averages the general valuation is too high. On nett
profits the value of stocks is equal to about 12 years’
purchase, and he would be an ultra-sanguine Towers man
who would allege that there is a hope of anything like
present prosperity being maintained for that period.
* • • «
Gympie’s returns for the first nine months of
the year establish a record in production : 96,962 tons,
92,5480z5. ; divs., £173,874 ; calls, £57,972. Last year’s
figures for same period : 81,125 tons, 79,3460z5.; divs.,
£112,640; calls, £72,352. Increases : 15,837 tons,
13,2020 z. ; divs., £61,234 ; while calls are less by £14,380.
Chief producers this year : Scottish Gympie, 33,264 tons,
28,7760z5,; divs., £42,000. No. 2 S.G. Eastern, 21,770
tons, 27,7630z5. ; divs., £64,800 ; South Glanmire, 13,865
tons, 20,7900z5. ; divs., £54,000. No. 4N. Phoenix, 1271
tons, 25150z5.; divs., £4500.
*** * •
Bendigo, which used to run a close race with
the Towers, is now behind Gympie. Record for past nine
months : Gold, 136,4140 z.; div5.,£134,799; calls, £100,657;
surplus, £34,142. “ The figures afford indisputable evi-
dence of the sound condition of the mining industry.”
This is a local opinion which an outsider will hardly en-
dorse. Certainly, the third quarter shows increases on
the first quarter of gold 95430 z., divs. £23,897. The
profit for the first half of the year was only £9357. Ex-
cepting three Moon mines and two Hustler’s mines, the
field is being Worked at an enormous loss. These five
mines have almost a monopoly of the divs., and on pre-
sent outlook are likely to retain it for a long time.
Prospects of the Moon group were never better ; another
mine—the North Moon—gives promise of soon appearing
in the producing list. Last week’s divs. from the three
Moon mines, £7850. Were the output of this section
doubled, as it might well be, the figures of the field would
look much healthier.
* * * *
Burbank’s (W.A.), in driving south, has found
that their reef bends to S.E., through the Lady Robinson.
This discovery is rather a sell for Birthday, as it holds
ground on S. W., through which it was supposed that the
reef ran. Rate of development of property has been
terribly slow, as, after having been at work seven years,
lowest level is only 430 ft. Run of rich ore, from which
recent big crushings of 25dwt. ore came, has been pretty
well worked out, and prospects of continued divs. look
blue. Working costs are so high that ore of loz. grade
leaves a profit of barely 12s. 6d. a ton.
* « • •
Island Eureka, Lake Austen (W.A.) reported
to be looking better than ever, especially going south, and,
from present developments, average of 25dwt. can be easily
maintained for some months. Monthly div. of 3d. per
share said to be assured. Ore being stoped from the three
levels which have been opened up. Island Eureka South,
which is now daily quoted, is being rapidly equipped with
hauling and pumping plant, and should soon develop into a
gold-producer, judging from past results from surface pig-
rooting. Shaft down about 140 ft. In the early days no
work was done below 90ft. owing to the heavy influx of
water, so that no great depth has to be sunk to get a
good lot of backs. Shares should be a good gamble for
speculators who go in for long shots, and can lift the
scrip off the market.
* * • «
North Kalgurli (W.A.), under the management
of Henry Nutman, is gradually developing into a gold
mine. He is devoting all bis energies to the eastern por-
tion of the ground, which, prior to his time, was wholly
neglected, and is opening up the continuation of the Kal-
gurli lode in the oxidised zone with highly satisfactory
results. At 600 ft. level some patches of very rich sulpho-
telluride ore have been met, but little work on the lode is
being done at this depth, as the upper levels offer suf-
ficient Bcope for one man’s energies, and, when opened up,
should provide a lot of ore. Long ere the money pro-
vided by the recent reconstruction of the co. is expended
the full strength of the property should be known.
* * • *
Kalgurli (W.A.), publishes, for the first time,
full details of working costs : Mining 10s. Id., reduction
21s. lid., development 3s. 5d., capital 3s. 5d., and general
25.; total 40s. lOd. As the ore is worth 785., there is a
profit of about 375. per ton exclusive of London exes, and
depreciation. September yield was 37110 z. from 3701) tons,
nearly 200 oz. worse than Aug. This co. always states the
yield in standard gold. Mine looking well, and, as the
stone is stoped in places for 60ft. wide, the supply of
ore to be mined is well ahead of the treatment plant.. As
there are only 120,000 shares in the co. a quarterly div. of
2s. 6d. ought to be distributed out of current profits.
* * • »
North White Feather, Kanowna (W.A.) after a
hand to mouth existence since its reconstruction two
years ago, has closed down. Mine has been producing
about £l6OO worth of gold monthly at a cost of a,bout
£lBOO. The original prospector, Mackenzie, took it on
tribute for a year, after its first collapse three years ago,
and netted a nice nest-egg out of the venture. He wanted
to renew the tribute but his offer was disdainfully re-
jected, and a new manager appointed. The main shaft
was put down fully 100yds. the wrong side of the reef and
had to be abandoned, and since then a system of go-as-
you-please mining has been indulged in with the usual
result.
* * * *
The Associated Northern (W.A.) cut very rich
ore, apparently a second bonanza chute, in the second
bore-hole sunk. From its position, this is supposed to
be an entirely new lode so far as the property is con-
cerned. It may be the underlay of what is known as the
Brown Hill Extended lode, but is apparently much
richer than anything so far found by the latter co. This
discovery has quite decided the co. to resume sinking
the main shaft, but, as Oapt. Rodda is not enamored of
its puny dimensions, it may possibly be enlarged from
the surface first. About 2500 tons of Boz. ore are either
at or en route to the smelters, so that a div. can’t be
far off.
• * * •
Perseverance (W.A.) directors have issued a
circular in which they state that the ore reserves of the
mine are now greater than they were at the end of 1901,
notwithstanding that since that time over 100,000 tons of
ore have been treated. Only the tonnage actually
blocked out is included in the estimate. It is added—
“ The condition of the mine was never so good as at the
present time. The Sept, output (over 16,5000 z.) will be
maintained.” Ralph Nicholls, the manager, is noted for
his extreme caution, and he certainly would not subscribe
to this statement unless he was assured of its absolute
accuracy.


DAVID JONES & CO.
%
HIGH-CLASS HATTERS
Panama Hats
(AS ILLUSTRATION),
37/6, 42/=, 45/= to 63/=.
Genuine Fine-Grade
Hand Selected.
George & Barrack Sts., Sydney
TABLE SALT
Makes all the Food
more strengthening.
From Grocers and Stores.
Wholesale Agents .'—Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
Society
Special Liguc[?]
"P & O".
SCOTCH WI[?]
[?]
[?]
N.S.W. Premier See is communicating
with other Premiers about making the already-
forgotten birthday of the late Queen Victoria a
perpetual public holiday. But just now Australia
doesn’t want any more public holidays. If Mr.
See would proclaim a day of extra hard work,
with corresponding extra wages, on which day
Australia would endeavor to make £lOO,OOO
worth of goods that are now imported, he would
hit the mark much better. The great mass of
day-labor workers and piece-workers are more
than tired of losing a day’s pay on account of
somebody else’s interested loyalty.
* • * •
Murderer Tisler, hanged last Monday,
gained 301 b. in weight before execution, on a
physical diet of steak, eggs, porridge, tea, bread,
butter, jam, &c., and a mental one of religious
magazines. Tisler’s stodgy, agricultural intellect
enabled him to sleep and feed well to the last.
But for the gruesomeness of it, the situation of
Mrs. Sangal would be dramatic—husband and
lover dead, waiting till her baby be born to be
slain.
» • • •
They should ask Premier Irvine in Vic.
Assembly how long he intends to give Mrs. Sangal
after child-birth before hanging her. Possibly, as
she is a fairly robust woman, she will be able to
stand up sufficiently well to be hanged seven days
after the birth of her infant.
* * • »
Constable Johnson, of St. Kilda, Vic.,
shot by a criminal who then committed suicide,
having quite satisfied the public craving for melo-
drama by the manner of his dying, received a
highly complimentary funeral, the other day.
Men, women and children poured in from all the
other suburbs, and crushed and fought to see the
coffin carried from the door, and all along the line
of route spectators were gathered, as if it were a
royal duke or a world’s greatest songstress passing
through, instead of a dead policeman. Women
wept openly and visibly as the hearse passed by.
This is the meed of the victim of mischance, whose
taking-off fills all the romantic requirements of
the crowd. The incident must be sensational,
it must be strong in sentimentality, and
have a basis of domestic incident. The shooting
of Johnson and his amazing sprint of 200yds.
with a bullet practically in his heart before falling
dead from his bicycle was a most melodramatic
business. The victim was one of the handsomest
policemen in the force, and Lady Tennyson had
just visited the young widow. Popular taste
could ask no more. Poor Johnson was buried
like a national hero. In the words of a local
editor of Irish extraction, any man living might
have been proud of such a funeral.
» * » *
The day’s takings on the St. Kilda line were
practically doubled on the day of the funeral of
Constable Johnson, and the traffic was big on all
suburban lines in consequence of the popular
desire to view the funeral. There’s a moral here
for Minister Bent. If only a few superfluous
politicians could arrange to be sensationally mur-
dered ! Perhaps Mr. Bent would give the move-
ment a start ?
* * * •
Re the statement that the man who shot
that Melbourne policeman had been threatening
to “assault ” an eight-year-old girl, it is unlikely
that an offender of that stamp would have had
nerves steady enough to enable him to kill his
pursuer at the first shot, walk 500yds., coolly
sharpen a knife on his boot, stab himself in the
throat, and finally shoot himself instantaneously
dead. The sexual criminal is generally a quivery,
neurotic creature. The Bulletin, as a rule, avoids
dead-men pictures, but gives in this issue por-
traits of the man shot in Melbourne side-by-side
with those of the man very strongly suspected of
the murder of Constable Guilfoyle. About the
identity of the two there can no longer be any
doubt.
* • • «
“ N.” writes about an increasing craze :
Any male who finds himself walking in a Melbourne
suburb—to say nothing of a public park —runs great risk
of being locked up if he gets within 50 yards of a girl-
child. Everywhere now abound the old-cat females who
see a child-outrager in every male who is not hustling
himself. Probably that St. Kilda policeman would never
have been shot if a hysterical mother had not made a fuss
over probably nothing at all. (Burglars and policemen-
killers are quite a different sort of people from child-
tamperers.) The mere fact of a poorly-dressed man being
in such a “ toney ” spot as St. Kilda on a Sunday morning
would be almost enough to raise a hue-and-cry. Sooner
or later, either men or children will have to be excluded
from the lungs of the city.
Victoria is “ a civilised country.” Yet no
one there raises a voice in protest when the
Commissioner of Railways, prodded on by Minis-
ter Bent, recommends that men should be
discharged from the railways and women put on
in their places. The Commissioner, in a report to
the Iceberg Cabinet:—
There are already 175 stations at which women are in
charge. At 159 stations no one is in charge. At the
cost of additional inconvenience t.o the public, this
system can be extended. It is considered that women
can replace men at a number of other stations, and that
at some of those where women are now employed, they
can be taken away, and efforts in this direction are now
being made.
In the name of economy, and (p save a land-tax,
the “ strong ” Government is to send men to walk
the streets, while their wives take charge of rail-
way-stations. Yet Britishers jeer at the German
who gets his wife to plough !
Minister Bent’s idea of .abolishing the
wages of luggage porters on Vie. railways and
making them dependent on tips, will naturally
make them obsequious to the rich and con-
temptuous to the poor. It is the first authorised
setting up, in nominally democratic Australia, of
the bad old English system of encouraging crawl
and hat-lifting and wealth-worship. And it’s
just the thing one would expect from T. Bent.
* * * *
Burly Minister Bent’s reformation of Vie.
Railways system begins to be amusing. Bent has
decided that “persons residing just outside the
nine-mile suburban radius should get greater con-
sideration in railway fares than those within the
oircle.” The most devoted of Bent’s constituents
happen to live just outside the nine-mile radius.
The ordinary load for a locomotive On the
-d j t -»«-*. t. , . .. ,
Eundaberg-Mt. Perry railway (Q.) is 80 tons,
and of this 50 tons now consist of water for rail-
Way P ur P oses - All the pumping-stations along
the route are dry.
“ Buzz ” writes
about cases when
happiness descends on
a girl suddenly :
Apropos of quick court-
ships and sudden marri-
ages. In 1873, at Mackay
(Queensland), a house-
maid (an emigrant) was
coming to me from Rock-
hampton. The overseer
from the next station
was going to port in his
buggy, and promised to
bring her back with him.
They met for the first
time at 11 a.m., and were
married by a J.P., 10
miles from town, at 12.30
or thereabouts. The fact
that they did the 10 miles
in 1£ hours shows they
didn’t stop to court on
the road. He broke it
gently to me when they
reached the station, paid
the girl’s expenses, and
took her straight on,
leaving a deserted and
betrayed female (which
was me) to wash up.
What’s more, the marri-
age was a decided success
up to a few years ago,
since when I’ve lost sight
of the parties. Again, in
1884, I allowed my ser-
vant girl to nurse a
neighbor (a mother of
six), who eventually died.
Servant girl Ellen went
to the funeral to carry
the two-weeks-old in-
fant. When she returned
at 5 p.m. it was to in-
....
form me that she was very sorry to leave me
so suddenly, but she had married the
bereaved husband on the way back from the
funeral. The O.E. clergyman who read the
burial service read the inarriageservice also,
and so did two jobs in one day. The adaptable servant-
maid had seen her new husband for the first time
two days previously. This marriage also turned out
all right, in a plain kind of fashion. Probably they never
developed a grand passion, but there is an every-day sort
of adaptability—a capacity for shaking-down, like a cow
in a new paddock—about people who can get married
coming home from the funeral like that.
* * * *
A N.S.W. country newspaper has a column
devoted to deaths of the week. In a recent issue
the notices were concluded, with pleasing variety,
thus:
(X) The funeral cortege was provided by John Stokes,
undertaker.
(2) Mr. John
Stokes provid-
ing the funeral
facilities.
(3) The fune-
ral parapherna-
lia was .'provi-
ded by Mr John
Stokes.
(4) His remains
were sepulchred
by Mr. John
Stokes.
(5) He was in-
terred under
the direction of
Mr. John Stokes.
(6) The funeral
arrangements
by Mr. John
Stokes.
(7) The obse-
quies under the
arrangement of
Mr. John Stokes.
(8) He was
buried by Mr.
John Stokes.
The editor
had to come
down to plain
No. 8 at last.
A more versa-
tile man could
have hung out
for two more
deaths by say-
ing ‘ ‘ He went
to join the
great silent
majority in
the commodi-
ous vehicle
provided by
Mr. John
Stokes,” or
“He fled to
his long home
in Mr. Stokes’
cart,” but in
any case the
subject was
getting used
up.
* *
In Goodna
asylum (Q.)
children born
after the ad-
mission of an
insane mother are also deemed and counted as
insane. Sounds idiotic, doesn’t it 1
* * * •
“C.H.R.”: Concerning the remarks of
“6xB” (B. 20/9/’02):
Here is a list of meat-sales at Launceston (Tas.) :—Beef,
40s. to 455. per 1001 b., sd. to Bd. per lb. retail; steak, 6d.
to Bd. per lb.; mutton, 375. 6d. to 40s. per 1001 b. whole-
sale, sd. to 7d. a lb. retail; loin chops, 7d. per lb.; spring
lamb, 9s. 9d. to 17s. 6d. ; pork (carcase), 4Jd. to s£d.
per lb. wholesale, 6d. to 7d. per lb. retail; corned beef,
375. to 40s. per 1001 b. wholesale, 6d. to 7d. retail. And
men who are too poor to buy at these exorbitant prices
are fined if caught killing the English trout, without a
license, or with more than one rod and line. This in the
interests of the gilded amateur anglers, who leave heaps
of fish rotting along their route. Wanted badly in Tas.,
a free run to meatless fishermen and a substantial tax
on fashionable rod-wielders.
A PORTRAIT OF HER GRANDMOTHER.
(From. Phil May's “ Summer Annual.")
Consider the daily-paper manner of re-
porting the death of an old age pensioner. Two
decent old men lately died, and three papers ap-
peared with the statement “Death of an Old Age
Pensioner.” Being of no social importance they
wouldn’t have been mentioned at all but for the
fact that they were old age pensioners. And
when Brown, after loafing on Government for 30
years, is pensioned off and dies, the dailies print
the “Death of a Highly Respectable Citizen”
and say nothing about his pension.
* * * »
There are 12 men engaged mending a
Sydney suburban road, at 7s. a day. Their fort-
night’s pay, however (owing to unsettled weather),
only runs from £2 3s. -to £2 Bs. per man. Super-
intending these 12 men are—one overseer at 10s. a
day, one at Bs. a day, and a time-keeper at Bs. a
day. Their pay goes on, wet or dry. “That’s
the way the money goes.”
* • • •
One effect of the after-damp at Mt.
Kembla has been to blot out the memory of those
who recovered in hospital. “A remarkable in-
stance of the dreadful blank which the effect of
the after-damp leaves on the victim’s mind has
come to light,” says Illawarra Mercury. “ Prior
to the explosion one man had planted in a secure
place his hard-earned savings, amounting to a
considerable sum. He was rescued on the night
of the disaster and taken to Wollongong Hospital,
where he remained for over a month. All he can
remember now is that he has a lot of money put
by, but where it’s put by he doesn’t know, and
can’t think.”
• • • •
’Tisn’t often the Jewish Day of Atonement
falls on Caulfield Guineas day (which is a truly
Christian way of putting it), as it did this year.
When it does, instead of dwelling in sackcloth
and ashes and repenting of their shortcomings,
the hook-nosed tribes mostly serve their God in
the Old Testament fashion—by falling on the
Gentiles and routing them with great slaughter.
The Hebrews were supposed to be fasting all day
Saturday, but if they weren’t any faster than
some of the favorites their atonement must have
been a failure.
» * » *
The expected has -happened at Victoria
Barracks, Brisbane:—
Some men were drilling with their instructors, when
one private complained to the captain that the instructor
was pulling them about instead of ordering them to do
what he wanted. The captain would not listen to the
complaint, so the soldier refused to go on with the drill.
Subsequently 14 more soldiers were placed under arrest.
The men made an attempt to release their comrades,
but were overpowered.
That looks very like a mutiny. What are Col.
Tom Lay-’em-low Price and General Hutton
going to do about it ? They have 15 prisoners on
their hands whom they cannot punish, as there is
no Federal Defence law yet. Then there was an
attempted rescue, and the .rescuers “over-
powered ” (how or by whom is hot stated) —appa-
rently by. the combined force of Col. Tom Price,
his staff officers and sergeants, who must in Bris-
bane, as in most of the Australian capitals, far
outnumber the privates.
* * * *
The fussy tabbies of the W.C.T.U. are
worrying just now over the yarn that in N.S.W.
“ vice struts around among high ladies. . . .Alco-
holism and drug habits claim many victims—
especially cocaine.”.So, asaremedy, the W.C.T.U.
is to have —“ drawing-room meetings.” Presum-
ably the meetings will be classified, Mondays for
morphia-fiends, Wednesdays for chlorodyne cases,
Fridays for cocaine-bugs. “ Drawing-room meet-
ings ” for drug-victims ! Chipped potatoes for
leprosy, bath buns for aortic aneurism.
HIDDEN.
[For The Bulletin.l
In the white flower of her heart
So much of honey lies
I wonder me the golden bee
Its sweets doth not surmise.
On the red blossom of her mouth
So much of beauty shows
I wonder why no butterfly
Mistakes it for a rose.
O folded flowers of mouth and heart!
O cruel maid and fair !
Nor butterfly, nor bee, nor I,
May know the sweetness there.
MAGGIE SULLIVAN.
CUPID
UP
TO
DATE
FOR THE BULLETIN
cmcf tWqmiiatk sslf ©sjT ?
t>!b<i|? b<n>lif& stTrcrngfelaj gravel,
wheels tfMum. elo^e« «mdl wolh .ct. pwfT
fwinnis cnw<mti|~ifh£ini He gy<G>w«B brciv«_.
c o ' c* a
of'perfeef skaj,
TKfe jpljrafeod wdg’sw b<4j 9
J>he mu rim am wow <m £&nd@vu <&iigK »
Jtriifs) - . rsaiji
wise?) ©f ftf&t,
, m in* shear <ds(ig ( Kt’
o PL of, eg leu Du sang logbf
■- d'wKjsl^*'
L.M.


“Travels in Western Australia”
ing at Albany, King George’s Sound, May Vivienne
journeyed to Perth and goldfields, whence she made
excursions to objects of interest, mines, caves, forests,
fruit farms, with indefatigable industry, covering nearly
2000 miles. On the goldfields the author visited by
special privilege many of the mines which are familiar to
observers of share lists, descending deep shafts and
traversing drives and stopes (workings between the
levels), being generally rewarded for her intrepidity with
presents of nuggets, or allowed to extract specimens
-from rich ‘ pockets,’ and do a little rock-drilling herself.
The wealth and extent of jarrah, karri, and other
timber are almost incomputable, but the author was
charmed most of all by the luxuriance and abundance of
wild flowers spreading over the country. . . . This hook
is, in fact, remarkably full of information.”— Athkn.kum
London.*
Sergeant “Charley” Cawood easily holds
the record for continuity of service in N.S.W.
military forces, having joined*a corps at Parra-
matta on October Bth, 1860, and served ever since.
W. B. Melville writes from S’Africa to an
Australian friend:
I must not forget to ask you to warn workers of every
kind against coming to S’Africa. They will be doomed
to the most dismal of disappointments. I know what I
say, having been pretty well, through the place, and made
all inquiries. There is more mendicancy in Pretoria,
Johanesburg, Durban, and Capetown than in the whole
of Australia. Every second man asks a stranger for the
“ loan of a couple of bob ” —the smallest price here for a
feed. Do you want any more ?
Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address.—
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-streeb
or King street, Sydney.*
SILVER
STARCH
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Australia’s
Leading Tonic
Beverage.
Sectarianism is rampant in Wyalong
(N.S.W.) just now, and it only requires a Dill
Macky, or an “ Escaped Nun ” to make things
red-hot. To get a job in the mines, even, you
must be of the “ persuasion ” of the bosses. One
half of the place is a municipality; the other half
isn’t. Some want incorporation; other don’t.
Altogether Wyalong is a pleasant place to dwell
out of.
* * * •
“ Carey ” gives us the real facts :
Re your article on sectarianism (27/9/’O2). Sorry I
can’t see through the same keyhole as you do. You’re
not in the know. I am. I’ll give you some facts. Car-
dinal Moran is to bring out a cargo of arms ; rifles dis-
guised as crutches and consigned to the R.C. hospitals ;
cannons labelled “ statues,” and consigned to the con-
vents ; and stands for field guns, branded “ mangles,” and
booked to the R.C. laundries. Troops are being drilled
in St. Pat.’s College grounds, Manly. (This is a military
college.) All the debating (R.C.) clubs have air-guns,
with which they are getting their eyes in. The plan of
campaign is already settled. On the date arranged all
the R.C. bells are to be rung at 3 a.m. St. Pat.’s will at
once raid St. Dill’s, while the students of the military
college at Manly will skip across to South Head by means
of a tunnel (engineered by Tom Slattery; you will
remember that T.M.S. lately retired from his solicitors
practice ; that was in order to devote more time to his
tunnel). The boys from North Head will capture the
guns at South Head and turn them on to the city ; the
Irishmen in the garrison are to assist; also General Finn,
Paddy Crick, and Owe’Sullivan. Hundreds of tons of
foodstuffs are being stored away, which is the cause of
the high prices at present ruling. Ammunition is being
prepared in cellars under convents and colleges. A new
explosive has been invented, and beside it lyddite is a
penny hunger : a shell of “ ballystrong ” will kill every-
body within a radius of 25 miles. These are the facts. I
have some more facts when you’ve paid me for these.
NOT EFFECTIVE.
HE: “Did you try the sheep-counting trick for
your insomnia? ”
SGE: “ Yes! I counted up to sixty-four thousand,
and ” —
HE: “ You fell asleep.”
SHE : “No, it was time to get up."
Extract from prize essay on the subject of
engagements from Pastor Pitchett’s son’s recent
publication, The New Idea :
Many a commonplace marriage follows a long engage-
ment. The romance, the charm of novelty have gone,
the supply of agreeable surprises is exhausted, having
been drawn upon during the years of waiting.
Just what The Bulletin often points out: the
springing of these “agreeable surprises” is re-
sponsible for a big percentage of marriages, just
to keep the population going, as it were. But
then a rude paper like The Bulletin can say a
lot of things which a nice ladies’ paper of religious
tendencies should carefully eschew.
* * * *
“The Australian lady teachers in the
Transvaal and Orangia will have to become
Duchesses, if they wish by matrimony to elude
veldt lonesomeness,” writes a Cornstalk ex-mili-
taire now in S’Africa.
• * * *
Melbourne’s Yarra has just added two
more victims to its list, a young man and young
woman drowned through the staving in of their
boat by a snag. Now the various powers scattered
along the river are talking of combining to weed
the gum-trees out of the stream. The river above
Richmond is full of death-traps, and young
couples boat on it in crowds on fine Sundays.
And when young couples are in boats they’re
sometimes too busy to be careful of snags.
* * * •
Babies really seem to be becoming the
fashion again. Sydney’s birthrate for the quarter
ended Sept, last was the largest since 1893, and
relatively the highest since 1897. Possibly the
departure of the last contingents and the suppres-
sion of a certain class of advts. in the public press
have had something to do with securing this result.
* * * *
The number of dogs registered in Sydney
this year shows a comparative decrease of 2000.
Meat is dear, but one can still get sausages cheap.
Adelaide, and his grandson is amassing legal
knowledge in the office of Paris Nesbit, K.C.
The old man is the only Smith who was ever a
Premier in Australasia.
** «*•»
The cantankerousness of the incomplete
person has often been noticed. Consider the
number of wooden-legged men who appear in the
police court in proportion to the size of the
wooden-legged community. Also note that they
are mostly charged with battery and language, or
smashing of property and language. Given a
wooden-legged man and a plate-glass window, the
chances of wilful wreck are at least twice as great
as if the man had both legs.
The other day a charitably-disposed person
found, in a village near Sydney, a family, or rather
two families, numbering ten persons, three of
them adults, and most of the children over ten
years of age, living in a two-roomed hut, with bags
and boxes for furniture. This state of affairs had
existed for some time before anyone drew atten-
tion to the danger of allowing the children to
grow up under such conditions.
• * * *
The bogus N.S.W. “Machine Shearers
Union,” having abused the A.W.U. because its
officials are salaried and run a newspaper,
now proposes to commit exactly the same sins.
It demands salaries for its officials and a news-
paper for its opinions. And as long as the
pastoralists are ready to put up the money—why
not ?
» • * •
Sydney johnnies have learned from fre-
quent requests to tie shoes, etc., that lovely woman
can’t stoop with the “straight-front” corset, not
to her toes, anyhow.
* * * *
Somebody has sent a pathetic letter to the
Argus re the proposed demolition of Bishopscourt,
hitherto the dilapidated domicile of Melbourne’s
Anglican Church bishops. The tearful corres-
pondent said : “ Bishopscourt is in a conveniently- .
situated central position ; there is something
historic about it. There lie the bones of Bishop
Moorhouse’s dog, Tim ; there is the old gum tree
that has seen 500 years. Shall we not say to some
purpose, ‘ Woodman, spare that tree ’ ? ”
A humorous (and true) story from a
N.S.W. gaol. A warder had been placed in
charge of two prisoners, told off to work a
piece of farm land adjoining the gaol. He fell
asleep and left his charges to their own
devices. Being honest criminals, seemingly,
they didn’t betray his trust in them, but
worked on till closing time. Then, as their
guard showed no signs of awaking, they gently
raised him and carried him back to head-
quarters.
It is not all joy being in a Royal Family.
Australian daily papers published this tip in their
cablegrams the other day :
London, 27th Sept.
It is expected that the Princess of Wales will be
accouched in November.
Now how would the average woman like that sort
of announcement ?
* • * *
Conduct of the yearly Eight-Hours Art
Union in N.S.W. is at least open to question.
It is not a fair gamble, seeing that the prizes are
in ridiculous disproportion to the proceeds ; and
there is a suspicion that many butts of tickets are
not included in the lottery barrel. As the Govt,
especially countenances this affair, it should take
steps to have it efficiently supervised.
• • • *
N.S.W. Arbitration Court’s recent deci-
sion raising the wages of bread-carters by ss.
weekly has been quickly responded to by the
master bakers. Bread has now been raised a
farthing per loaf all round, which means that
Sydney and suburbs are paying £lC')O per week
more for their bread because 160 bread-carters are
collectively receiving £4O additional wages.
What’s the matter with a municipal bakery ? It
will come.
• • * •
“ J.R.” re the Drayton Grange Commission :
The Commission blames all concerned in the trouble
except the ship’s officers and crew. Hard to say why they
escape, since it was in evidence that some of them did a
roaring trade with the swaddies in the grog which caused
much of the mischief. Drs. Williams and Greely, by'the
way, want to furnish a “ supplementary report ” on the
scientific aspects of the voyage for the instruction of
transport officers, who would doubtless receive it with
derision. “ Science ”is wasted when ordinary common-
sense is so evidently lacking. The most surprising of the
numerous protestors against the finding is Col. Lyster,
who says he was told “ only to answer questions.” His
remedy is simple ; he can demand to be tried by court-
martial.
• • • •
The struggle for a crust: —
SITUATION wanted in a fortnight, 2s. 6d. weekly ;
can teach music, assist cooking and dress-
making ;no washing. Miss , Sturt-street,
Ballarat.
And here:
Geelong.—An application for dispensation was
made on Thursday in the Insolvency Court, presided
over by Judge Chomley, by Victor Emmanuel Hester,
railway employee, whose debts are £55. Insolvent
was unable to pay anything since sequestration of
his estate on Feb. 7, his salary being 355. per week of
seven days. Out of this he had to provide for a wife
and nine children, the eldest of whom was 15 years,
while one of them was blind and another delicate.
His Honor granted the application.
From which it would seem that the fat persons
who are trying to squelch the Factories Act can’t
give many points to the Government at sweating.
* * * *
Since Peacock has ceased to be a power in
the land, sewing-lessons for boys have ceased in
Victorian State schools.
» * * *
A Ballarat pressman, reporting in the local
court where the J.P. discharges the influential
offender at first sight, 'not long since addressed the
bench from the press-box and audibly urged it to:
hustle with its verdict. The chairman pathetically
pleaded for time. The press is a power in the
statued city.
As anticipated, Carnegie is going to suffer
for his liberality to those two Queensland
youths. A northern P.O. official says if the
rush of cor-
respondence
continues,
they will
have to make
up a special
mail for
“ Carne-
gie” with
extra-
large
sacks.
Some of
the ad-
dresses
are queer.
“Lord
Carne-
gie,” “Mr.
Carnegie,
million-
a i r e, ”
“Carnegie,
Scotland;
if left,
please for-
ward. Ur-
gent.” One
letter, with
fine sar-
casm, was
labelled
“Hon. Mr.
Carnage.” By the “feel” of
the letters, an enormous pro-
portion have the writers’ photos,
enclosed.
Francis Villeneuve Smith,
Attorney-General, Premier, and
then Chief J ustice of Tasmania
—he held the last office from
1870 to 1885—still lives in Lon-
don, and completed his 83rd
year on October 3. He is a
descendent on the mother’s side
of Admiral Villeneuve, who
commanded the French fleet at
Trafalgar. His son, a well-
known lawyer, was recently
killed by a tram-car accident in
THE NEWEST OUTBREAK OF JINGOISM.
“’Ere yer are, soovenirs of Melba; don’t be a
pro-Boer.”
Women who purchased at the sale of goods
said to belong to a recently-retired cleric will be
chagrined to know that few, if any, of the things
sold had belonged to him. The house was packed
with goods from a warehouse. The trick is fre-
quently practised in Sydney. A popular clergy-
man occupied a furnished house in a fashionable
suburb ; time came when he had to leave. With
his consent, the goods were sold as his, the house
being further crammed with stuff from the stores.
Some, perhaps, bought to get souvenirs of the
popular clergyman, and, if they only knew it,
they got souvenirs perhaps of the last “abbess,”
whose gilded home of sin the time-payment furni-
ture man had sold up.
Melb. Age advfc. :
QjTEADY tradesman requires comfortable Home
with young widow.. Write terms, J.R., Age office.
Young widow 1 What has come over “oor
Davie ” ?
Argus “ To Let ” advfc.:
TTNFURNISHED Rooms, large, good position, with
widow ; no others; references. ’s News
Agency, Richmond S.
* * m *
A Maoriland photographer thus announces
an addition to his family :
"DEGLER, Palmerston North, August 25. —Another'
Young Snapshotter developed ; prints well.
* * * *
The home-wrecker’s advt. :
TiIVORCE Cases conducted for £5, first-class soli-
AJ citor; evidence procured; advice free on any
matter. Law Agent, G.P.O.
A Bulletin correspondent wants to
abolish a degrading show:—
These States are fond of publishing statistics
to prove the decrease of crime, but it is a pity
they do not put their energies to the more
practical direction of hiding the criminals
they still have from the public gaze, and so
increase that decrease. Writer has travelled
ibout Australia and Maoriland a good deal of
recent years and has been disgusted and
horrified at the way prisoners—and not
always convicted prisoners—are paraded to
the public gaze. In Sydney every court day
Black Maria drives up to the front door of
the court house and collects all the
offenders—men, women and children —and
bundles them publicly into the vehicle;
ditto, when a consignment is sent off to
Cockatoo. In fact this is one of the
daily free shows for the loungers on
the Quay. Much the same thing goes
on in Melbourne. Went to Perth a
couple of years ago, and first thing
seen on leaving the railway station
was a string of men—black, white
and copper colored —chained two and
two, marching through the streets.
In Auckland, a few days back, saw
a squad of broad-arrowed prisoners
in charge of an armed warder, mak-
ing their way, during the busiest
part of the day, through.one of the
principal streets. Maoriland is about
the worst offender in this respect, and
the parade of shame is apparently con-
sidered part of the sentence, for the oily
Acting-Premier, in reply to a deputation
which protested last week against the
practice in Wellington, declared, in ex-
tenuation, that only second offenders
and those convicted of serious crimes
were so exhibited. In Lyttelton, (M.L.)
a few years ago, a gang of prisoners used
to push an empty hand-cart up and down
a steep hill all day, while in Timaru they
levelled the streets.
THE BISHOP’S DAWG.
O, woodman, spare that tree
Which dates from ages dim ;
Beneath its shade
A bishop’s spade
Did dig a grave for Tim.
Tread softly on the place
Where Tim is sleeping sound.
Disturb it not:
The verdant spot
Is surely holy ground.
The dear, departed tyke
Was not of common clay;
Full sanctified
It lived and died—
For dogs must have their day.
Now, leave poor Tim at rest
Beneath the grassy sod,
Until at last.
By trumpet blast,
He’s summoned to his God.
Amen.
THE LAST MAN
died
€f\oo"e/\ co/\si denrvo, c\
of AS we 5,4-
wL/i\en. sotVboAcled Kjn\
a foor oa£;
"I\c Wol'fd is our' owr\ /\°W- ”
cried sever’aP ir\ chpi'uS' ;
" 'Vcmarlcecl H\eir feadcK
"tl\ o qghhfuP(y:—" filth w/\ah
% deuce io do
a \>oo\ a/xce^lor's
f&Jtrftrjjy? 0
TH IS BIRD \£>
DAMGERPUSli


ETTES"
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
RAINCOATS.
A SET OF TEETH ONE GUINEA
Beautiful and Lifelike in Appearance and Guaranteed Perfect Fit. Absolutely
Extractions and Stoppings Guaranteed.
Special Attention Given to Regulating Children’s Teeth.
Mr. J. SPcwCER NOLAN, R.Q.S., Surgeon Dentist, 43 Oxford-st.
Painless
Sydney
Sold by all Drapers and Hosiers.
KNEIPP LINEN
UNDERWEAR
Porous. Cool. Clean. Unshrinkable.
Recommended by Medical Profession.
Prevents Prickly Heat, Eczema,
Allows the Body to Breathe.
Words of wisdom from a Bulletin corres-
pondent :
Why are some men such illogical fools as to depend on
religious testimonials when applying for a job—at any
rate on work where knowledge or skill is called for?
Writer had to engage some men recently on a certain
engineering contract, and among others an application
was received from a young fellow, enclosing one reference
from an engineer he had worked under ; one from a Pres-
byterian Bain-Fakir to say he could recommend his
acquaintance to any other Christian young man desirous
of forming it; another from a Wesleyan Sky-Pilot to
testify to the regularity of his attendance at Sunday
school, whilst a fourth emanated from a J.P., who simply
mentioned that he knew the applicant’s father ! Now,
the work happened to be of a kind requiring a certain
degree of skill, and had that young man based his claim
on the trade testimonial he possessed, the chances are he
would have got a job, but as he appeared to depend more
on his reputation as a regular churchgoer his application
was passed over. I required a whole engineer—not a
person who was one-fourth engineer and three-fourths
regular churchgoer and consistent believer.
A graceful form and well-moulded bust
are essential to perfect beauty. Lacti, the
wonderful “ Skin Food ” is nature’s remedy for
giving back those essentials when lost through
sickness or action of time, and for supplying them
when constitutionally deficient. It fills all hollows,
develops and gives a charming roundness to neck
and arms. Price 7s. fid. per jar, post Bs. 3d.
Westall Guest, Toilet Specialist, 229 Bourke-st,
Melbourne. Wholesale, Elliott Bros., Sydney.*
“BE SURE IT’S
CHARLES
HEIDSIECK
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, October 21, 1902.
My Dear Arini. —
Melba-mania, Sandowism, and the return of the
Premier have filled up Sydney’s hollow society
places as fully as Venus cream, or other beauty
mixtures “bring out the perfect curves,” &c. The
postponement of the concerts by the siren was a
great set-back to some who had come long leagues
to hear her, and had to return unhearing. To a
few of these Melba has written expressing regret ;
instead of a song an autograph. A relaxed throat
does not mean unriveted works elsewhere, and
Melba has been doing the local beauty-spots, and
dining with the State Govt, people and with the
Lassetters. This week the Finns (Major-General
brand) are giving her an orchid time at barracks
and picnics.
Last Friday, Sydney’s Mayoress, Mrs. T.
Hughes, gave a Melba reception at the Town
Hall, when between seven and eight hundred
persons “met” the singer. Melba stood on a
dais, Mrs. Hughes by her fawn voile side.
Madame has that security of manner that belongs
to the very successful or the very rich, and the
unflagging vitality that comes of sound sleep and
perfect digestion ; her success in life comes not of
her mere voice, but equally of her physique and
her temperament. She stood, or sat, or made
excursions from the dais ; she drank tea, laughed,
chatted incessantly ; paid the Mayoress many
compliments on the success of “the meet,” and
hugged the youngest Hughes child, a pretty boy
in a big blue tie and knickers. Her hands, .eyes,
feet, and mouth were never for a moment in
repose. For two hours she was in action, her
vitality as effervescent when she departed
at five o’clock as when she arrived at
three. With no necessity to lift up her
v«ice in song Melba had laced her waist severely,
with the result that outlines were too obviously
defined, her back rounded and her appearance
shorn of much of the grace it presents on the con-
cert platform. Among her ornaments was a
diamond chain with a great pink pearl and a black
one. When she met old friends, such as Mrs.
W. A. Macdonald (the Miss Kate Slattery of Mr.
Dan O’Connor’s panegyric), she purred over them
effusively. Mrs. Macdonald is a very vivacious
lady with a curly mop of fair hair, who might well
have carried, so Melba says, her vocal wares to
Marchesi, but married instead, and has lived
happily ever since.
Lady Forrest and Bigjohn came in for a large
share of the singer’s attention. Lady F. was in
a black lace gown (the kind of lace that looks as
if it were woven of fine silken cords). Mrs.
Bland Holt (looking capital, in spite of a frantic
hat of red poppies—a Garden of Sleep hat) was
another favorite. Melba’s brother-in-law, Mr. T.
Patterson, whom half Sydney mistakes for a
detective guarding Melba’s jewels, hovered alone
with folded arms on the outskirts of the crowd,
his gaze always directed towards the platform.
He really has the look of the detective in fiotion—
a Sherlock Holmes, mysterious-looking person.
The real detective looks mostly like a mild,
shabby nurseryman or a caretaker. A large
number of women are more interested to know if
Melba wears anything but silk tights under her
clinging Felix gowns than they are in her voice.
These Felix creations are shotted round the
trains, so they never turn turtle or bunch.
A M.L. correspondent writes: “Most mining
men in Australia know, or know of, J. W. Walker,
of this island, commonly known as ‘ Long-Drive ’
Walker, one of the foremost mining managers of
his day, and until lately manager of the famous
Waihi. His wife was a Miss Dow, a sister of
Melba’s mother, a short, plump, black-eyed,
Hebraic-looking lady. Mr. Walker’s daughters,
first cousins of Melba, are all handsome and very
musical, and one had a lovely voice, which she
merged in early matrimony.”
Madame Melba is making one exception to her
general rule to hear no budding nightingales, and
has graciously intimated that she will hear Miss
Hilda Mulligan, of Manly, grand-niece of Vincent
Wallace, warble a test-song for critical purposes.
Certain returned distinguished Coronators seem
to have earned unpopularity here on account of
their visit to the Pope. If the Barton-Forrest
route had been through Thibet, and the Grand
Llama were on view, no one would ever dream of
hinting that the politicians and their wives
shouldn’t pay that ancient institution a call. A
friend of mine, from Ballymacquew, said, in
reference to this visit: “If you go to Rome, it’s
manners to roam wid the Romans.” Among the
batch following the Australians into the Vatican
was a Presbyterian gentleman who says he is a
personal friend of King Edward, and should be,
therefore, of irreproachable Protestantism.
The Barton-Forrest quartette looks somewhat
travel-worn and worried. Reports say that dur-
ing the Coronation rush the Cecil wouldn’t
answer your bell till you had rung 10 times. Also,
it made you wait from 15 to 30 minutes for your
chop or soup. The Forrests ranged themselves at
the Queen Anne Mansions, where for two small
rooms and a bath cubicle they paid 21 guineas
a week. Everything else, from a cup of tea to
the electric-lighting, was “a hextra.” Bigjohn,
who was ill most of the time with influenza and
bronchitis, is 2st. lighter than when he left. Per-
sons with cocked hats, sea-legs, and epaulettes
sat amongst the medicine-bottles all day and
talked defence of the Empire at him, squadron
subsidies, and mobile forces for service beyond
the Commonwealth. Lady F.’s Coronation gown
was white lace over white silk. The quartette
ran up against several of the type who, five years
ago, invited the Premiers to visit Ireland, and
“by all means to wear their native costume.”
Returning by America, they thought it very
“fresh” to be charged in New York equal to
four guineas for the carriage of their personal
luggage from the steamer to the hotel. The For-
rests return Westrali a wards about the New Year.
The Bartons’ house at North Shore is let until
December, so they are living at Petty’s Hotel,
which is much better than a hollow log, any
day.
Miss Mu ret, a member of the “ Messenger
Boy ” co., has married Charles Trood, who takes
the part of Cosmos Bey. Her sister, Mrs. Willie
M‘Evoy, came over from Melbourne for the
wedding.
Captain Goulding (of the trader General Gor-
don) who was killed at San Francisco through
10 tons of lumber falling upon him, and Captain
Green, of the trader Mt. Stewart, who narrowly
escaped a like fate, were both married to Aus-
traliennes. Mrs. Goulding was a Miss Ella Evans,
of Sydney, clever and musical, and had been mar-
ried only two years. Mrs. Green was a Brisbane
girl, also married but a short while. Both ladies
were so bactty injured by the falling of the lumber
that it is feared they will be permanently orippled.
Captain Green’s escape was due to his returning to
the ship for his wife’s purse. Makes you think of
the Persian line: “On two days it steads not to
fly from thy fate, the appointed and the uuap-
pointed day.”
Grace Palotta, writing to a Sydney friend from
Lucerne, where she is stopping with “the little
mother,” describes the beauty of the place, which
she evidently considers finer than Sydney. Also,
she mentions the many street singers, men and
women, with beautiful voices. One in particular,
was “a ragged girl singing outside a cafe the
Jewel Song from ‘ Faust ’ with so lovely a voice
that if it were heard in Australia you would—
well, she would not be any longer in rags or singing
in the streets.”
Miss Fitzmaurice Gill, who starts on the
prickly-pear track of theatrical management,
financially well backed, was for some time with
the Bland Holt co. She also played with Nance
O’Neil, and between times did some literary work.
Miss Muriel Milson, only daughter, of Mr.
Alfred Milson, who was married to a son of the
late Mr. Alick Osborne, of Moss Vale, last week,
is a grand daughter of one of Sydney’s oldest
living identities, Mr. James Milson. The family
at one time owned all that part of North Shore
known as Milson’s Point, and other properties.
A sister of this Osborne bridegroom has recently
married cricketer Jessop, who, when he is not
cricketing, is a master in some college or other.
Concerning matrimonial affairs, the engagement
of Miss Alice Mack (a sister of Louise) to a White
Star officer is announced. She will probably
return to Sydney to be married.
Sydney’s first Dental Hospital was officially
opened last Friday by State Governor Rawson;
as a matter of fact it has been doing good work
quietly for something near a year. The president
is Dr. R. E. Magnus, and it is supported by nearly
every reputable practitioner in tne city.
This is from The Stage, a prominent English
paper:—
Te Rangi Pai, the M.L. contralto, gave her first concert
last Tuesday before a fashionable and numerous audience.
The concert was under distinguished patronage, most of
the Westralian Premiers were present, including the
Right Hon. R. Seddon.
_ A woman, well-dressed and bearing an extraor-
dinary likeness to Melba, got out of a hansom and
went into an oyster-shop in Pitt-street. A crowd-
let gathered, and when she re-appeared she knew
from the comments for whom she was being
mistaken. Glancing angrily round her, she
re-entered the hansom, and remarked, “ Melba
(sniff)! Where are your eyes ? I’ve got a neck
(sniff) — her head grows out of her shoulders; mine
grows on top of a neck ! ”
The new Vice-Admiral (Fanshawe), who will
sail these summer seas early next year, is about
50 years of age, and comes of a Royal Navy stock,
which started its Viking march in 1815, and has
given dozens of men to the navy. The Vice-
Admiral’s newly-appointed Flag-Captain is an-
nounced as Commander Purefoy Richard Purefoy.
Sounds like a Chevy Chase ballad name ; for that
matter, so does Fanshawe. Mr. Purefoy is
reputed to be immensely wealthy, and we are all
delighted to hear it ; poor people are not respect-
able, especially on the quarter-deck of a flagship.
A Brisbane correspondent writes :
“Brisbane owns a warbling boy (the son of a
well-known station owner on the Dawson), who
can imitate scrub magpies, butcher birds, doves,
laughing jackasses, etc. Brisbane’s enterprising
Mayoress has originated the idea of asking Melba
to shine at a garden fete in aid of the Lamington
and Children’s Hospitals —tea, Melba and dis-
tinguished company for an honest sum, and the
warbling boy thrown in. He is to be stationed
in a bushy tree, and the diva will be entertained
immensely by his repertoire, no doubt. Maurice
Evans —as the child is called —is an adept at
imitating a cat or dog, and a cat and a dog fight
also. It is to be hoped that he won’t treat Nellie
Melba to all his tricks at once.
“Sir Herbert Cherrfiside, his sister-in-law (Miss
Webb), and the A.D.C., paid a flying visit to
Stanthorpe, and one or two other obscure Queens-
land towns, last month, with the idea of choosing
a summer residence far from the madding crowd.
They accomplished a large tour of inspection in a
short time and in a business-like manner.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent•
“There was much blow about the Caulfield Cup
this year. The wind set the trees of the course
into convulsions and made havoc with the Cup
crowd, tearing skirts, sweeping chiffons over
heads, dragging at hat anchors, scattering fluff
and millinery scraps to Heaven. Women on
arriving at the course, dashed straight away to the
dressing-room and there fought desperately for a
place at one of the three big mirrors. They
removed hats and veils, struggled for the one comb
provided by the V.A.T.C., caught baok the run-
away tresses, pinked and powdered openly with
the chamois that performs this dual office, replaced
hats and veils, sniffed the salts, tried the scent,
and, refreshed, valiantly faced the terrace.
“Vice-Regal parties were lost to sight in the
grey stormy scene. Now and then, the greater
Excellency’s silk intellect-lid, askew on his
billiard-ball head, showed up on the Terrace.
Lady Silverlocks and her daughter sported cream,
the young person adding stole-ends and vest of
blue to her outfit. Also, she wore a small hat in
blue tones, to match her eyes. The Guv’nor
strolled on the lawn with various people. Sassiety
is murmuring. It is beginning to think the
Clarkes are too naice. What avails it to Mrs.
Philadelphia Brown to hobnob with their Exes, if
some quite outside person is treated just as cour-
teously a few minutes after ? The Clarkes seem
determined to be naice to everyone.
“The shearers’ wives were, as usual, the most
gorgeously dressed at the Caulfield Cup. None
of the sassiety swells can come near the bookies
for ostentation. A real lace dress cover, with silk
groundwork, chiffon feet billows, flying pelerine,
flirting elbow frills, and hand-painted decorations,
was the most telling turn-out of the day. Garish
motifs and bizarre garnishings were the means
sought, most popularly, to attract attention.
Frocks in good taste, like the white and pin-priclc
voile of Mrs. Arthur Moule, the strawberry
foulard of Miss Rita Kiddle, the black-and-white
delicacies of Mrs. Percy Chimside, the cream trifle
of Mrs. Ernest Raleigh, the fruity red silk of Lady
Williams, were drowned in the blare of the
Hebrewesses trumpeting their husbands’ wealth.
“ The new figure with its pouched blouse struck
the eye everywhere at that race-meeting ; and the
ugliness of the fashion came home to the under-
standing. When women, with blanc-mange- like
figures, sport the kangaroo dress-front, the side
view is that of a bulky flesh-slip—one wonders if
the fall has been finally arrested or whether a cas-
cade of flesh wijl not tumble down over the knees
in a moment or two. False hips wagged where
Nature was scant. The pneumatic air-pad had its
day out, or rather in. The fair every year become
more and more upholstered. Hair frames, “trans-
formers,” false switches, artificial teeth, improved
complexions, paddings, and shoe elevators are the
necessary accoutrement of many smart women.
And the effect of so much artificial aid appears in
the anxious frown, the ill-tempered air, and the
apprehensive care that mark all these painstaking
slaves of Fashion.
‘ ‘ Melba’s dinner entertainments are described
as ‘sensational.’ The hostess herself designed the
table, a sort of circular affair built round a
double-flowering peach-tree. The company sat
under the pink-blossomed boughs. The chairs
were gilt Chippendale. At a dinner given by the
Mars Buckley family to Melba, the flowers were
hugega ( y tulips, their colors shown up by shaded
lamDs of the same hues. This decoration glowed
on die polished dark-wood centre of the table, the
white hem-stitched dinner-oloth only bordering
the edges.
“In their welcome address, old schoolmates
congratulated Melba upon always having guided
her steps by the college motto: ‘ Olme Hast, Olme
Rast ’ ! Between themselves, they agreed that
the only motto observed by the Nellie Mitchell
they had known was *On for larks ’! Melba still
loves games of all kinds. She doats on ‘bridge,’
and plays it all day during long train-journeys.
She takes more care of her figure and her voice
than we have been led to suppose by English
scribes. Nowadays, Melba touches neither tea
nor bread. Bread is fattening and tea bad for
the digestion.
“ Melba had her first and only outburst at her
old school shivoo. Since that day she has drawn
in her horns and been silent at public functions.
At the Conservatorium kow-tow she wasted no
words. A shrug of the shoulders, a laugh, a
gesture proved a substitute for speech. ‘ I can
only sing my thanks,’ she said once; ‘ I cannot
speak them.’ Someone, with a quick hope danc-
ing in her eyes, cried back, ‘Sing them,’and all
are agog. There is a pause. Melba bridges it
with a smile, the appropriate shrug, and turns to
hear someone ask her to have tea.
“ Girls who have been flattered from time to
time, at ‘ Stonington,’ by Miss Clarke seeking
their musical help for her accompaniments, will
be nervous now that Melba has performed the
duty. At Government House, t’other day, when
a little party collected at St. Kilda-road mansion
to meet Melba and her harpist, the singing of
Miss Clarke, accompanied by Melba, was an item
on the impromptu programme. Melba quite
gushed over the familiar effects of Marchesi train-
ing displayed by the local Gov’nor’s ewe lamb.
“Mr. Justice Williams has been spouting to
the country lads and lasses on the burning subject
of ‘ Love and Marriage.’ Great excitement pre-
vailed on the announcement of the lecture. The
local hall (up Hamilton way) was packed. It was
in the main a stale drone talk. Once, however,
he differed from .St. Paul, and called his Biblical
view a ‘bestial one,’ and the orthodox sat up.
Later, when he declared that, 4 in order to protect
her skin and hair’ from marital slave-drivers,
woman ‘developed guile, deceit, and untruthful-
ness,’ there was another unpleasant sensation,
but no one heaved a brick at the placid judge.
His recommendation of a good life partner was
summed up in three qualifications—good health,
good temper, good sense. Sensible doctrine,
certainly, but no judge should lecture, or act, or
sing, or fall off a bicycle, or play the piano in
public, or walk the tight-rope, or engage in pie-
biting contests. In fact, he should do nothing
which exposes him to criticism or to competition,
lest the man who can beat him at bun-eating or
singing acquire thereby a contempt for the law.
There’s only one attitude for a judge on or off the
Bench—that of frozen dignity.
“ At the opening of the State Reform Parlia-
ment (Oct. 15) it was hard not to wink the other
eye at the so-called ‘Reformers,’ who, lolling in
the lap of luxury themselves, menace the poor
little ‘ perks ’ of railway porters, and shake their
heads ominously at old-age pensions and free
education. Where was this rage for economy
when our legislators fitted up for their own con-
venience the western annexe of the Exhibition
Building as a gorgeous fac simile of Parliament
House proper, at a cost of more than £30,000?
Viewing the ruby-velvet fittings of the Legislative
Council Chamber, the crimson carpets and picture-
strewn walls of the smoking corridors ; the library,
with its blue-books (of both sorts, dry and other-
wise), and new novels; the hot-water pipes all
over the building; the lace and buckles of officials;
the uniformed attendants; the silver-gilt mace
(said to be more valuable than that of the House
of Commons) one seemed straying in a land where
thousands grow on trees.
“ There was an extra glossiness about Duncan
Gillies when he fitted himself into the Speaker’s
chair behind the gilded bauble. He was self-
possessed and self-centred. After a respectful
glance at the President—his vis-di-vis —his shrewd
old eyes fell to a stony stare at George Reid’s back-
head, with the fox-colored hair descending in-
terraces to the locality of the baggy neck.
“ At the Wrixon 'Parliamentary afternoon tea,
the grey-haired hostess, in dark-blue, splashed
with white, had, as a co-entertainer, her tall,
fresh-faced, unpretending step-daughter. Old
hands compared the ‘ opening tea ’ with those
given of yore by ex-President Zeal. His table-
flowers were always arranged by the George
Jenkins household—not by caterers who mix red
gladioli, white daisies and green rosemary-in equal
quantities and tie the blend up into cauliflower
posies.
“Mrs. Alec. Peacock looked attenuated. Her
recent illness and subsequent nursing of her
spouse have reduced her to an almost transparent
slimness. Back in her old place, as if George
were still in power in the State House, sat Lady
Turner, in exuberant spirits. The Premier’s wife
aimed at youthfulness and gaiety in a charming
turn-out of turquoise-blue with a tropical hat.
Lady Clarke presented a pleasant Excellency in
bottle-green.
“State Commandant Maria Gordon cut a
tremendous dash among the polished brass
escortees of the Excellency Clarke at the Parlia-
ment opening. Glasses help his vision, and seem
to take the gilt off his warlike trappings. Fancy
Mars in spectacles !
“The collapse of Mr. Alfred Deakin was ex-
pected. His family have been concerned for some
time, and towards the end of the Federal session
some of the Deakins were always in the gallery.
Mr. Deakin began to lounge languidly; a debili-
tated tone crept into his speeches, and the mighty
effort he made for that Ballarat review of Com-
monwealth measures finished him. He collapsed
next day and just dragged himself through one
or two Cabinet meetings before setting off to
meet Boss Barton on Friday. Mrs. Deakin is
greatly concerned. Nerve-trouble is her husband’s
worst enemy. And, as Edward Dyson once wrote,
the worst of modern diseases is Nervous Ability.
“Melba has forwarded word to Cave Hill—the
Lilydale station —that she is going up for a day's
fling. The poetio-looking place where the famous
hams are cured is putting on its best bib and
tucker for the event.
“The softgoods people do things in a large,
handsome way. On Friday Mr. and Mrs. Reid
brought off their party at the Balwyn snuggery in
fine style. ‘Be a business man, and all fat things
shall be added unto you,’ as Marcus Clarke used
to say.
“Much ado over the smart marriage of Mr.
Clive Money Miller and Miss Clare Wilson, of
Toorak, last Tuesday. The go and dash of the
bride prepared her friends for a special array of
chiffons. No one was disappointed. Scots’
Church, Collins-st., has seldom seen such
a triumphant bridal array. Miss Wilson
wore ivory satin, and fine lace adorned the
corsage. Four stunning girls befriended the
bride and helped in the picture. Misses Eva
Miller, Rita Kiddle, Fanny Wilson and N. Mac-
kinnon—the ladies in question—carried off their
topaz-yellow and ecru lace dresses with a dashing
air. Their hats were of tuscan, trimmed with
roses. All four heads had elaborate coiffures—
dressed low on the head, like the bride’s. Guests
mostly sported the same hair mode. After a
festive tea at South Yarra the cooing doves set off
for Sydney with the intention of storming Mel-
bourne again Cup-time.
“G. D. Meudell’s tnetaphors: ‘ The Opposi-
tion was blown like thistle-down before an
Atlantic gale. When the leader of the Opposition
spoke of keeping his supporters up to the collar
he began at the wrong end of the harness.’ And
so on. The little Meudell talks thus with all the
force of his four-feet nothing and over a four-inch
collar.
“ Iceberg Irvine is as cold and hard and rigid,
as his wife is soft and gentle and docile. She
has a fancy for rainbow colors—wearing the
brightest blues and pinks. Her smile is propitia-
tory. She desires to please. Her greatest vanity
is high-heeled, silver-buckled, gaudy shoes, which
she wears even for day functions.
“ The wife of the Acting Gov.-General is not
maintaining the formal dignity so closely observed
by Lady Hopetoun. She attends private parties.
The other day she turned up at ‘ Cloyne,’ when
the very elegant wife of the Waxelleney feted
Melba at a tea. Tenor Kirby was once more
switched on for a number. By this time all the
professional warblers in Melbourne are emphatic in
their opinion that the Sassiety pet has had more
than his share of patronage, favor, and good for-
tune. At the Madden party the guests were
armed with autograph books, opera scores and
poetical volumes for Melba’s big, hasty scrawl.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


HEADACHES.
Sick headaches —splitting headaches—burning headaches—throbbing headaches—
nervous headaches —dull,heavy headaches! What can cause more misery than a headache ?
There’s no complaint more common —and no complaint mere easily cured by Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cure headaches by removing the cause - that’s the only
safe, sure, scientific way.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills build up your blood and stimulate to healthy action your
stomach, liver, kidneys, and nerves.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills remove all cause for headaches —the special ailments of
nervous women, and the stomach troubles of dyspeptic men
Then headaches vanish like magic.
Singleton Man Cured. —“ Continual throbbing- headaches afflicted me for years,” says Mr. W. Long,
Warkvvorth, rfingleton. “ Though slight at first, they gradually grew worse until life was misery. I suffered, too, from
agonising pains in the back and bowels. Medicines and pills failed to do me any good—but} two boxes of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills drove away the pains in my back and bowels and banished all my headaches. They are a marvellous medicine.”
Sold by retailers and by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney, 2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d. post free.
%
PERSONAL ITEMS.
N.S. W. can boast, as a record, of a K.C.
who has been ca. sa.’d by a Chinaman.
Tom Bent has one real distinction. He
was the first Victorian native to be elected
Speaker.
Let B. R. Wise look out for falling
bricks: Mr. Young, M.P. (N.S.W.), has styled
him “one of the noblest sons of Australia.”
Rhodes was ever weak on details. In
codicils to his 1 will in his own hand he mispelt
the names of Rosebery and Michell, two of his
executors. He wrote “Roseberry” and “Mitchell.”
If King Dick Seddon goes to S’Africa as a
politician (English papers assert so with strange
insistence) you can bet that there will be some
connection between the move and Rhodes’bequest.
As soon as Bigjohn Forrest got back,
Major General Hutton definitely announced that
he didn’t intend to resign. The pressure, which
had become almost unendurable, had been re-
lieved.
The traditions of the Speakership are
redolent of dignity, honor, courtly gentlemanhood,
and lofty principle. In Victoria, the last four
Speakers’ names are Matthew Davies, Bent,
Mason and Gillies ! !
Said General Hutton to Federal Minister
Lyne on one occasion recently : “Oh, but we
can’t fly in the face of the Imperial authorities.”
“Pardon me,” said Bill; “you, plthaps. can’t,
but I can.” True bill.
J. H. Smith, hunted out of the S.A.
Railway Commissionership a few years ago so
that the politicians might have more room to nose
around, has gone to Natal to report on the
railways there, with a view to taking command.
The Leahy family will soon own Queens-
land in fee simple. Janny bullies the Assembly
while brother Pat blarneys it with his flute-like
soprano, and the “ bhoy ” Danny is coaxing
Lockyer electors with soft soap and flapdoodle.
Almost the first proceeding of the new
Victorian session was ex-Premier Peacock's
apology “for certain references to the personal
appearance” of Mr. Bent, when he said the
Government had taken that person’s “ great, fat
carcase ” to its bosom.
The Laborites who are arranging John
Burns’ lecturing tour of Australia can’t make up
their minds whether they ought to “run” him
themselves or let the cunning hand of Smythe
manage the reins, as it wants to. But there
should be no two opinions about that —the cunning
hand should have the job. The Labor bodies can
organise for him just the same; but Smythe,
working on his own lines, will get in not only
coin but also men the others could never move.
Run by the unions, the lectures will be mainly to
just the men who go the new John’s way already;
and the more of the other sort that he can call to
repentance the better.
HE GOT OUT OF IT.
“I was engaged to him once , and I can tell you
he isn’t such a fool as he looks.”
“ Oh, he couldn’t he or he’d never have got away.”
David Syme has now quarrelled with every
decent democrat in Yic. politics, and has allied
himself with the Tory crew. “If the Conserva-
tives serve our turn, why not employ the Con-
servatives ? ” says David. But it is David who is
being employed by the Conservatives. David is
getting old.
A sister of W. H. Richman, the Adelaide
squatter who recently bequeathed large sums to
local charities, married Sir James Fergusson,
M.P., when he was Governor of S.A. Fergus-
son’s first wife died in Adelaide, and the lady he
wedded in Adelaide died in Ceylon, his present
wife being the third.
Divines Harper and Tait, who had steered
the Presbyterian College in Melba’s school days,
were not present at her welcome, “owing to
extremely important business at the General
Assembly,” then sitting. The gushing fell to the
lot of the present staff, who, not having known
the guest in her girlish days, had no scoldings to
take back, no solemn reproofs or awful warnings
to wipe off the slate.
“P.X.”: “Hop” will surely be rein-
vigorated by the knowledge that at the Austra-
lasian Church Congress, in Adelaide, an arch-
deacon, no less, gratefully recognised the artist’s
" contribution to the sentiment of mission work.”
Every time “Hop” draws a fat missionary, a
cannibal, and a bubbling pot, the plate, it seems,
comes back from its next trip flooded with tears
and heavy with silver and gold.
Dr. Roth, N.Q. Protector of Aborigines,
is most assiduous in dealing out marmalade to his
departmental chief, Home Sec. Foxton, His
official reports and speeches nearly always include
some flattery for Mr. Foxton ; and, as that gentle-
man isn’t too popular in most quarters, he
appreciates the unusual incense.
Obit., Charles Davis, solicitor, of Sydney,
at 63. The many years Davis struggled to make
the Sydney Quarterly Magazine a literary voice
were the tragic ones of his life. The small pam-
phlet was a chronic sufferer from literary anaemia,
but the more it languished the more tenderly its
proprietor and editor nursed it.
Chief-Justice Darley’s last letter shows
that improving health allows him to contemplate
a visit to Ireland. It is 20 years since his last
visit, on the occasion of the death of his mother.
The Darleys are strong in Irish legal and social
circles —almost all Conservatives; “Progressive
Conservatives,” to use their own phrase.
Westralia’s first-born white died the other
day, aged 72. She was the daughter of Captain
Roe, for 42 years the local Surveyor-General, and
founder of a good old “family,” whose members
are still to be found in high places. The daughter
became Mrs. S. P. Phillips, and that ,\vas the
beginning of another strong branch in ’Groper-
dom.
Melb. Argus, respectable as an ancient
courtezan at a christening, published an obituary
notice of Zola in which there was no sort of
reference to “L’Assommoir,” “Nana,” or any
other blue-tinted offspring of his brain. The
British reputation of Zola is based on “ L’ Assom-
moir.” Every Total Abstinence Society in Aus-
tralia ought to send condolences to the widow of
the man whose' novel was dramatised into
“Drink,” by Chas. Reade.
George Venables, well-known in all big
printing houses as the one-time champion type-
setter of Australia, is now part proprietor of a
Waikato (M.L.) paper. Venables has been a
lightning snatcher in his time, and has put up no
end of records. He picked up all the points of the
game on one of the big Melbourne dailies. In a
type-setting championship at Melb. Exhibition he
beat all comers, with a good margin to spare.
“Melb.”: Allow me to urge that Vic.
National Gallery ought to possess the admirable
life-size oil-painting of George Higinbotham, by
Miss Thomas, now buried at Brighton Public
Library. It should be replaced at Brighton with
the portrait of Brighton’s brass god, T. Bent, now
at Melbourne Aquarium, in his Speakerial robes,
such a speaking likeness that you expect it to
blurt out, “ What the devil are you looking at ? ”
Melba still retains the bold scrawl, pecu-
liar to generations of Melbourne Presbyterian
Ladies’ College girls. She dashes off a splendid
note, concise, yet kind, on Frenchy note-paper.
Every sheet and envelope has “Nellie” in gold
letters on a round disc of pink, blue or lilac
enamel. The paper is grayish with just a sugges-
tion of the same color as the enamel seal. The
cunning color tone of this paper is another instance
of French observation of Nature’s methods.
Swinburne, who beat Barbour, the figure-
man, out of the Hawthorn (Vic.) Assembly seat,
is chairman of Broken Hill Water Supply Co.
It is significant, by the way, that the men who
make the money out of B.H. investments go into
Vic. Parliament; the men who do the “ hard
graft ” in the B.H. mines go into N.S.W. Parlia-
ment. Of the former are Knox, M’Bryde, Orr,
Staughton, Swinburne; of the latter, Cann,
Ferguson, Thomas (now in the Reps.), Sleath and
Williams.
Speaker Jenkin Coles indignantly denies
Minister Lyne’s assertion that a Federal legislator
was “ unceremoniously bundled out ” of Adelaide
Parliament House because he unwittingly strayed
into the quarters reserved for State members.
This was one of the arguments used by the Home
Secretary in favor of the establishment of Federal
political clubs in the various Australian capitals.
As a matter of fact, Federal legislators are given
the use of library, reading, smoking and dining-
rooms in the Adelaide marble palace.
Not many young Australians have been
struck by harder luck than Adelaide Porter, who
won the Elder (Adelaide University) Music
Scholarship some years back, but who, perman-
ently injuring her right hand, had to return from
Europe when half-way through her studies. Yet,
though disabled, she has persevered, and at a
complimentary concert lately she gave a remark-
able performance with the left hand only.
With the death of Rev. S. M. Creagh, of
Strathfield (Sydney), Australia loses a splendid
linguist, notable in particular for his
studies of South Sea dialects. A mis-
sionary of tongues and creeds he would
dispute as vehemently over the signifi-
cance of oa or ao in a Polynesian ex-
pression as over the Athanasian creed.
He spent most of his life in the
Islands and pushed the Bible at
naked natives in their own lingoes.
He also translated “Pilgrim’s Progress”
intS Kanaka tongues.
PROFESSOR MILLER, AUSTRALTA’S
VETERAN STRONG MAN.
The late Mr. Justice Hensman, of Wes-
tralia, was somewhat of a Radical in politics and
a strong supporter of female suffrage. He was
speaking on the latter subject in Perth one day,
and was putting in a claim on behalf of the other
sex for equality with rnan in intellect,' judgment
and courage, when a piercing shriek from near the
entrance of the ball suddenly broke into the thread
of his discourse. Inquiry elicited that one of the
ladies had nearly stepped on a frog, and that she
caught sight of it as it hopped out of her way.
Little Chief Justice Way has been very
subdued during his present stretch of office as
Lieut.-Governor of S.A., and has apparently
realised at last that there is no local demand for
the highly-flavored and over-colored butter which
he is accustomed to purvey to the people in his
public speeches. He speaks now almost as seldom
as Lord Tennyson did, and he is manifestly
attempting to abate the florid character of his
utterances. The result is that his presence as a
would-be controller of thought is less bitterly re-
sented than before.
When Carlo Dani, the well-fed tenor with
a soft suggestion of maccaroni and butter (lots of
butter) in his voice, was in Sydney, he was rushed
by girls, who kissed him and begged his auto-
graph for photos of him which they had bought.
Unlike the Duke, Carlo didn’t give away photos ;
he only gave away the signature. Now, those
girls will be well pleased to find that anybody can
get Carlo’s signature and portrait out of a news-
paper medical advt. —with a full description of
what he was cured of. The B. trusts, for the sake
of the remnants of Australian loyalty, that the
Duke wasn’t cured of anything while here.
Rumor varies as to Bent’s motive for his
quick-firing volleys of sensational proposals and
edicts in Vic. railway management. With one
voice she opines that he is after the snug £3OOO-
--year nest of the Commissionership, which has
not been occupied permanently since Mathieson
left; with another she hints at revenge on rail-
way men for support given to a successful oppo-
nent at a bygone election; and, thirdly, she
suggests a mere ambition of Tommy’s to have two
columns allotted to his doings in the morning
dailies, which have treated him as a somewhat
greasy back-number for so many years.
Mr. Tom Mann has accounted for the
water in the beer :
He had for two and a half years kept a public-house at
96 Longacre, London. While aeting as landlord he took
up the position of organising secretary to the National
Democratic League and placed a man in charge of the
public-house as manager. On his return the inland
revenue officers served a summons upon him to appear at
Bow-street police court. Though he had had nothing to
do with adulterating the beer, he was fined £lO for
having it on his premises, and it was quite right that he,
as licensee, should have been punished.
But, after all, a pub is a bad investment for an
active labor leader—almost as bad as a terrace of
houses.
N.S.W. Labor leader M‘Gowen has now
learned that “a dignified differentiation of private
from public concerns” is sometimes misunder-
stood. When B. B. O’Conor asked him if he
wasn’t building his new terrace of houses by con-
tract, Mr. M‘Gowen replied that the matter was
not one that concerned the House. As a matter
of fact, he explained to friends later, the houses
are being built by day labor, and he merely
wanted to snub Mr. O’Conor “as a protest against
the habit of invading the private life of the Labor
members.” But what a poor spec, for a Labor
leader is a terrace of houses ! How will he ever
be able to collect from recalcitrant tenants ?
The row between Deputy-Speaker CTann
and Sleath, M.L.A., which bubbled up in N.S.W.
Assembly, t’other night, and ended in Sleath’s re-
moval, runs back to the days, 10 years ago, when
neither of them was in Parliament. Both, in
those times, were working miners at Broken Hill;
and when the first Parliamentary nomination
loomed both had expectations. But though Sleath
was the more effective man with a crowd, his
suave opponent could handle an executive better;
and so Cann won and went to Parliament while
Sleath stayed at home and presently went to gaol
—over the big strike-trouble, and only reached
Parliament via the “jug.”
N.S.W. acting-Chief Justice Stephen has
put on a little stiffness and strength with his new
dignity, and isn’t quite the meek target for rowdy
barristers he used to be. He still needs, however,
Borne of the spirit of his father (in that regard).
Once Darvall and Windeyer (afterwards Judge)
quarrelled before old Alfred Stephen in court.
Windeyer called Darvall a liar ; Darvall promptly
smacked him in the face with a heavy brief.
Chief Justice Stephen sent them both up to
Darlinghurst gaol for contempt. Darvall took
his punishment like a gentleman, and on his
release called on Stephen and apologised. Win-
deyer never spoke to the judge again.
An Australian writes from S’Africa :
Concerning W. P. Schreiner, ex-Premier of Cape
Colony, Australia has quite a wrong impression. He is
credited with wonderful strength, subtlety and caution.
As a matter of fact, Schreiner is the jellyfish of S.A.
public life. He is an Imperialist of the most accommodat-
ing order. He was in office when the Briton-Boer trouble
loomed on the S’African horizon. Had he shown back-
bone, Chamberlain almost certainly must have heeded
him. But directly Schreiner saw that the Imperial
administration preferred the mailed fist, he lapsed into
silence and inactivity. A protest from him would have
helped the peace cause wonderfully. He has German
blood, but “Dutch” courage. England has largely
to thank him for her mountainous war debt, her sorrow-
ful death roll, her abortive victory. The Dutch have to
thank him for their unparalleled miseries.
Mr. Danyell O’Connor, re Friedman case
in N.S.W. Leg. Assembly (amid much loose elo-
quence about “dishonoring the memory of his
father and mother,” about being “rocked in the
cradle of liberty,” about “Moses and the Tables
of the Law ”) unpacked his heart of this woe:—
But when the jury came to examine the goods as they
were unpacked, of what description were they ? They
came from one of the greatest firms in England. A man
who supplies not only England and her colonies, but
other parts of the world, who, as a knight, has been
specially decorated by the King, who has been sheriff,
and who has been Lord Mayor of London, and who is a
special friend of the King—"this gentleman is the head of
the firm who sent these goods out to New South Wales.
They are untouched, and they are of priceless value.
The horror of it—buying cheap goods which were
manufactured by a man who “is a special friend
of the King ! ”
Like hundreds more, “Jack” Reside,
Labor member for Hannan’s
(W. A.), who fell dead in the
street the other day, owed
a good deal to Bendigo
School of Mines. As a
youngster in a battery
be studied at the
school, and got an
engine-driver’s
certificate at so
young an age
that his mates
talked about
him, and
soon made
him their
union presi-
dent, and
that gave him
a lift when he
went over to
the West. So
far as his inti-
mates knew, he
had not the faint-
est idea that he had
any constitutional
weakness ; yet, at
only just past 30,
he had to die on
only a moment’s
warning. Though
he didn’t take it
as a virtue, he
used to claim that
on his mother’s
side he was of the
family of Watt, of the steam-engine.
PASTOR DILL-MACEY,
Prophet of Australia’s
“Bloody Shirt.”


m
WEAK-SICHTEP REAPERS
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing with comfort, whose distant vision is dull
and who suffer from persistent headaches or pains after close
application—you piay rest assured that you are suffering from
Ageing or Impaired Vision, and Need Glasses. You
should visit us, and have your sight scientifically tested, and
be supplied with Glasses adapted to your individual case.
Tli COUNTRY READERS who cannot visit us personally, we send, Post Free to any address, with full instruc-
tions and Price List, our marvellousiy-accurate and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT. By its use
you can Test your own sight and determine for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you may need.
\Vrit£ for it to—
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Consulting Optician,
371 George St., Sydney,
next door to the A.J.S. Bank.
Kin”- and George Streets.
And at 232 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, opposite Age Office.
DAVID STOKER & SONS’ Thre6 Colora - BLAOK< RED and BLUE
Registered
Trade
Mark.
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
l
Wool-
Marking or
The Perfect Sheep-Marker, SHEEP BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.— ln the ease of ethnological and
natural-history items , etc., always give date and
place of experience ;or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations ivill have scientific
value.
A ghastly drought item. At Bowie station
(172 miles N. of Jericho, C.Q.), the family has
had to desert the homestead and camp at a water-
hole, three miles off. Last month, over 300 head
of cattle perished in and round that one hole,
while other holes on the run can show the whiten-
ing bones and sun-dried carcases of hundreds more.
Twice in the last three months the stockmen have
found saddled-and-bridled horses dead a few miles
from the tracks, but they saw nothing of the
riders ; and, in that now waterless country, search
is impossible, beyond the radius of a day or two’s
travel. When rain does come, there will be some
dreadful finds and dreadful stories to tell of dead
men’s bones and the wanderings of thirst-mad
travellers. During one of the severe duststorms
now so prevalent in C.Q., a hot blast as from a
furnace swept over this station, withering what
little vegetation remained and driving the stock
so mad with terror and thirst that they ran them-
selves to death or took refuge in all sorts of strange
places. _ Three days later, w r hen the homestead
was visited, a mare was found in the dining-room,
dead ; and, in the washhouse, three more horses
lay dead—one of them being an “ outlaw ” they
had never been able to get near since she was
branded.
* * * •
Be the current artesian irrigation con-
troversy, Mr. M‘Cray, the well-known Sydney
well-borer, controverts in Sydney Daily Tele-
graph Mr. Cotton’s assertion that “ the whole of
the water from one of our western bores, with an
estimated flow of 3,000,000ga15. per day, was,
during the present drought, barely sufficient to
keep the grass green on a 200-acre paddock during
the summer months.” In 200 acres, it is pointed
out, “there are 8,712,000 sq. ft., and in one
million gals, per diem there is 700,800,000 sq. ft.
of water lin. deep per annum—this would mean,
if it was all used, 80£in. on the 200 aores—a three
HIS OATH!
Expression on Bullocky Bill’s face when asked if he understood the nature of an oath.
million flow would be 2411 in.” Much of the failure
in this direction, Mr. M‘Cray asserts, results from
over-irrigation, due to an utterly mistaken notion
that the more water is used the larger the crops
will be. Another correspondent, who has been
irrigating with artesian water for seven years
past, writes enthusiastically about the results—as
entirely disproving the supposition that, after a
5 j f o . . ~
few crops have been raised by the aid of artesian
water, the land becomes so charged with alkali as
to render it unfit for further use.
, , , ,
,
lhe vagaries of Australian climate i
Geraldton (N.Q.) is suffering (so the residents say)
from a drought. They have had no ram for jive
weeks. A great part of Western Queensland is
also drought-stricken—no rain for nearly five
years. Breadalbane station, however, near Bird-
ville, got 4in. a few days ago in one storm. A
leading hotel in a West Queensland town, usually
rented at £lO a week, is at present leased out at a
nominal rent of one shilling /
• , „ »
. . . ~ .
The experiment of the traction-engine
which was proceeding with many vicissitudes and
10 tons of loading from Broken Hill to White
Cliffs (8., Oct. 4), was a rank failure. The un-
made track proved far too great a strain, and the
camel-man had to hooshta to the rescue.
“N.Y.”: When the sluice-gates of the
weir, near Elmore (Vic.), were opened recently to
send water down the Campaspe to Echuca (for the
benefit of the runs abutting on the river), and
before the water reached the backwaters and billa-
bongs, those parched places became alive with
hundreds of tiny grey frogs, while the croaking of
larger frogdom gave warning to the ants, beetles,
etc., which were seen making for higher ground
as fast as they could go. It took five days for the
stream to reach Echuca (filling all the river-bed
holes on the way) about 25 miles distant.
* * » *
Wragge’s Stiger - vortex rain provokers
were set off at Charleville, t’other day. Two of
the guns burst, and remarkable were the escapes
from sudden death. One of the guns was a
veteran at the game, having burst at Mt. Morgan
some time ago. They’ll bring rain one day, those
guns—a rain of bits of Wragge.
•** • *
Upper Hunter (N.S.W.) graziers have
concluded that prickly-pear as a fodder is a
failure. Cattle, although they will eat it, cannot
subsist on it for any length of time without losing
condition.
« • • •
Writes “ Equa ” :
Salt cannot be removed from water by filtration
through sand. The fresh water found on sand-hills on
the coast is soakage from the hills or surrounding
country finding its way to sea-level. Know a system by
which thousands of gallons of excellent water can be
obtained from salt lakes or sea water. No incrustation
can occur, and no cooling water is wanted to condense
the steam. This method is subject to a patent. Have
seen a plant at work on W.A. lake water carrying 30 per
cent, solids; boiler, distilling lOOOgals. daily, showed
absolutely no scale. Condensed water is thoroughly
aerated in a process which is cheap and the method of
working so simple that fresh water can be got at any
time for stock, so long as there is a supply of salt water
to work upon. There is a fortune awaiting the man who
will take up this matter and work it. Writer will gladly
send details to anyone interested, Address, L.R.S., c/o.
F. H. Faulding and Co., Adelaide.
* * * »
“ Glenara ” : The Melbourne press talks
largely about the “ national calamity ” that will
ensue if mallee settlers are not given seed, hone-
feed, etc., to enable them to take up their weary
old struggle again. But, according to Fenton,
the total yield-value for the past seven years from
the cultivated portion of the 11,000,000-acred
mallee has been less than £250,000 per annum.
Surely Victoria ought to make sure of better
results than this from its rain-makers, irrigation
schemes, etc., ere it sends farmers into the mallee
again. Above value, without deducting expenses,
works out at about £2O per annum yearly. Verily,
the mallee and Wimmera are spoon-fed, State-
supported, coddled industries.
■» * * *
The successors of old Joe Bosisto in the
eucalyptus oil distilling business lately gave the
Victorian mallee farmer some information for the
good of his health. Joe’s successors held that, if
he is the ruined, drought-stricken man the papers
says he is, ho himself is mostly to blame. The
eucalyptus people, whose distilleries are right in
the mallee, possess some 40 horses and 5 cows, to
provide which with feed they farm about 100
acres, and in the wheat portion of this they
expect to reap about 8 bushels to the acre ! They
have the same soil and the same rainfall (4.17 in.
to date) as their neighbors, and they do not
irrigate. Says the manager
Proper fallowing, combined with the use of the seed
drill and manures, is the only way to farm in these dry
districts. We will not have an utter failure even this
year, dry as it has been. Last year we experimented on
30-acre blocks with three different classes of manures, and
proved the superiority of Florida superphosphate for our
particular district. A few acres I put in this year with-
out fallowing is looking very miserable and going back
daily, while the other part is holding its own, with a good
chance of improving l .
It is the story told by the Agricultural Depart-
ment experts over again—if the land-holders
would sell half their land, and buy manures and
farm, the remainder they would be a vast deal
better off.
. * * ,
Though the country around Lake Boga
(Vic.) is desolate, the lake itself yields tons of long
soft grasses. Stock-owners paddle out in boats
and rake up loads for the “starvers” waiting on
tb e bank,
* * , ,
.
During a flood m Waikaka (M.L.) district
lately sheep were seen floating down the river
with rabbits on their backs.
“ Albar ” : Can any of your
contributors explain why a horse
that has been ridden through nettles
will lose control of his legs if he
gets into water, and lie down ?
Have noticed it often when chasing
cattle along the little mountain
creeks.
* * » *
Larry Dooley kept a pub. on
M.L. West Coast in the early days.
He was totally “no scholard,” and
had an original way of recording
accounts. Each debtor was repre-
sented by a potato, kept on a shelf
under the bar counter, and, with the
aid of certain hicroglyphical cuts,
Bung Dooley was enabled to arrive
at a moderntely-correct estimate of
amounts owing. On one occasion
“the gintleman that pays the rint ”
invaded the sanctum and made
short work of the potatoes. A
customer called for his bill, and, on
looking up his “ books,” the loss was
discovered and lamented by Larry.
“Be me sow], if the pig hasn’t
scoffed up me lidger! ”
* * * *
“ Croyez ” : Be par anent
bandicoot (8., 2/11/’01). First ate
bandicoot in 1858, and still eat
it with avidity when I can get
it. There is nothing to equal
it when fresh killed and dressed.
The flesh has a delicious aroma.
Was once in a S. Gippsland district
where they were plentiful. Got a
dozen rabbit-traps and baited with
apples, peas, carrots, etc. Used to
catch them all ways—by legs, tail,
forearm—and one left a part of its
nose in the trap. Had many with
smashed legs, etc., but the nose
finished it—the traps were too cruel,
and I pitched them into a deep
waterhole; caught with springers
thereafter. By the way, what is the
difference between bandy and small
kangaroo rat ? Never could get any-
one to define it
* * * *
“T.G.8.”: I was keeping an
eye on the sheep, reading The
Bulletin meanwhile. Combo, the
nigger, was asleep, which he had no
business to be. Presently, hearing a
strange noise, I looked round and
saw the tail of a large brown snake
disappearing up Combo’s trouser leg.
Combo was awake, but was main-
taining an intensely reticent atti-
tude. After a deal of trouble the
snake managed to crawl under Com-
bo’s belt—which was tight owing to
Combo having just had dinner—and
after ages, it seemed to me, his head
appeared through the opening at the
shirt-neck. Meanwhile, Combo was
growing old before my eyes, but he
preserved a sphinx-like air of uncon-
sciousness. I was afraid to bash the
snake for fear he would bite the nigger, and waited
as patiently as I could for him to get about clear.
Then I hit out wildly three times, hitting Combo
twice and the snake once, and when the snake was
quite dead Combo sat up and made this memorable
remark : “ My word ! that fellow’s breath bad.”
Be pelicans’ eggs. “D.H.R.” (B. 20/9/'02):
“ Junius ” : Plenty to be got on Bulloo Downs station,
near Thargomindah, S.W. Queensland. In good seasons,
round the edges of a lake there, I have seen hundreds of
eggs.
“ R.E.K.": On an island in Boola Boolka Lake, on
Tolarno station, 60 miles from the Darling, pelicans’ eggs
are to be found in thousands when the lake is full of
water. The eggs are white, and larger than a goose-egg.
• * • *
“Werrimee”: Re pelican eggs: “Nym-
sie” (8., 4/10/’O2) has made a most remarkable
ornithological discovery. What ordinary observer
would have guessed that that highly-respectable
and sedate-looking bird produced eggs at one end
and chickens at the other? It makes t&e old
tradition look less ridiculous, that the pelican
feeds her young on her blood. The white pelican
makes its nest in reedy marshes, and in the tall,
mangroves that cover the floating beds found in
most 3 lakes. Hidden deep in these mangroves
there are often broad, clear pools of water, the
ideal home of numerous kinds of waterfowl, and a
great variety of nests and eggs can be found in
season around the margins. The black-and-white
pelican, which frequents the same secluded haunts
as its white cousin, builds in trees, and the wood,
twigs and leaves with which the nest is con-
structed would fill an ordinary dray. Have found
them mostly in low tea-trees, and on one occasion,
at Woodlands, near Casino (N.S.W.), only a mile
from the homestead.
BERTRAM MACKENNAL'S BUST OF
MADAME MELBA .
A queer tale of a “ wild man ” comes from
the Tas. back-country. A prospector named
Rose was near Howell’s Plain, on the head-waters
of the Mersey, when he saw a tall object like a
“hairy man ” creeping along the edge of the plain.
When Rose stopped the creature jumped into the
myrtle forest and disappeared. More recently a
stockrider named Shaw took refuge in a hollow
tree during a snow-storm. As he entered a “ man
covered with hair” ran out of the opposite
opening, and cleared towards the plain in
a succession of springs. The tracks were
afterwards found to measure Oft. between each
mark. Shaw describes the “ thing ” as an elderly
man, about 6ft. high, covered from head to feet
with long hair. Howell’s Plain, the haunt of this
“ monster,” is a white grass marsh, almost treeless,
two miles long by J mile average, lying between a
low range and the "Mersey River. Just north of
the plain, in the fork of a myrtle, two musket-
barrels were found some time ago, the stocks
having rotted off. How they got there is a
mystery, but that they are in some way connected
with the “ wild man ” is now believed locally.
Possibly they belonged to him before he became
wild and grew his mat of hair.
* • • *
A little exciting diversion comes the way
of the bush pedagogue now and then. T’other
day a furious female rushed into Hindmarsh
(S. A.) public school, and demanded the immediate
release of her son from school duty. Being in-
formed that the boy was kept in to do an “impo-
sition,” she yelled, “If you don’t let him out at
once, I’ll sliow yer wot I can do ! ” She then
sparred up, and began to hit out furiously;
and when the astonished, teacher skipped behind
the desks, she shied the ink wells, and the school
manual, and the chalk-box at him. In the after-
noon si io returned, reinforced with her other half,
who knocked the pedagogue down, chased him
among the pupils, and over the desks, until he
finally escaped into the paddock. That was his
story. Her yarn was to the effect that he had
punched her in the face and loosened her back
teeth, and, after tearing her blouse and bedraggling
her generally, had pulled her at full length along
a form by the few hairs she had left. She had
then sent for the old man to protect her, and had
shied the school property at the ferocious teacher
in self-defence. The P.M. accepted the teacher’s
version, and fined the belligerent couple £4 12s.
* # * *
St. Helen’s (E. Coast, Tas.), during the
last week in had a rainfall of 6.40in. in
hours. And ‘the East Coast of the Flyspeck
is by no means the wet coast of that moist spot.
ANOTHER SPRING POEM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I sit amid the carcases of sheep ;
Around me blowflies musically sing
A requiem o’er the ghastly rotting heap,
And I—l read a page of Bards on ‘ ‘ Spring.”
A bare, brown Continent around me lies,
Drought-smitten, aching from the sun’s fierce sting ;
And green’s a color that these poets wise
Must see in readers when they chant of Spring.
For nowhere else on this sun-smitten isle
Can it be seen—the Crow is chosen King,
And lie’s the only thing that I’ve seen smile
When thousands questioned: Where the deuce is Spring?
MATCHBOX.
THE SHEARING AT DYINGFAST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now, this is a tale I heard last week,
In a pub. where beer flowed fast,
From shearer Brown, who arrived in town
From a run called Dyingfast:
“We reached the shed with pockets slack,
But a smile that was good to see.
The boss came down to the little town,
Said ‘ Men, now listen to me :
“ ‘ Ten pounds a hundred’s the rate I give ’;
Then up went a mighty cheer.
He walked away, then turned to say :
• There’s only one left to shear.’
FRANK DARCHY.


KARTELLS
“ A genuine
eld Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
"Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
Tha Lancet.
Pencils*
EjfßErd
Solid Gold, 27/6. Solid Silver, 3/-.
From our Large Stock we Select and Illustrate the Most Popular Case now in wear.
It is flat, and fits comfortably in I he pocket.
It is Solid Gold or Silver, English Hall-marked.
' The Leads we always stock.
- It wears clean, and .looks good.
London Prices.
Plain Figures.
Strictly Cash.
Fairfax & Roberts
it is special value.
The Oldest Jewellery House in
Sydney.
23 Hunter Street.
Noted by a Maoriland squatter as a strange
fact that the destructive kea, which has killed a
great many of his sheep in hilly country, attacked
only half-breds, the merinos being left alone.
* * * •
The A.W.U. organiser, who, as a rule,
hates “ smoodging ” worse than sin, has in hand
just now a job that turns even his tough stomach.
Under the new dispensation he has to go out
enrolling the men that, only the other day, he was
fighting all he knew, and whom in a good many
cases he still loathes; and he has to get them
inside a union which, in a good many cases, he
loves. “ With them in it, and part of it,” one
said, the other day, “it won’t seem the old
A.W.U.; and yet I know it’s got to be done.”
Well, perhaps it will not matter so much, after
all, if it isn’t the same old A.'VWU. The A.W.U.
could only win hitherto by its members sticking
together; with the Arbitration Court in fair
stride, it will be able to win if its case is good,
even though some of its members are, as the
others think, a bit weak in the back and gone in
the knees.
* * • *
A Richmond River (N.S.W.) dairyman's
cheque for a month—.£2oo. He employed no
labor except that of his own family.
• * * *
“Wanda,” re method in story, “Myall
Tragedy,” for persuading Australian “niggers”
to guide white men to water in dry country :
Such method was common during early pioneering
and later gold-prospecting days of Westralia, A day in
the blazing sun with mouth and throat filled with lake
salt (part alkali) generally proved an effective form of
“ moral suasion.” Sometimes the “ nig ” was solid grit,
and refused to divulge, in which case he was commonly
murdered, but the fact was seldom reported in the morn-
ing papers. Two prospectors, away east of Ooolgardie,
captured and held a nigger for 48 hours (about 115° in
the sun, no shade ; night heat average about 80°) without
water, at end of which time the prisoner showed signs of
a physical break-up, but still “no surrender.” (There
was no salt used on this occasion, none being handy—for
a wonder, in that country.) Prospectors, not aspiring to
murder, then released their prisoner, thinking, any-
way, that his thirst would send him straight to water,
while his physical weakness would admit of his being
followed, but the blackfellow circled and doubled about
for yet another half-day, and then dodged his pursuers
through a clump of the impossible gimlet-wood. Same
summer, owing to soaks and rock-holes being used up by
the desert rangers, several of the wild blacks were forced
into the goldfields, to cadge their water from the whites,
some of the older and weaker ones perishing by the way.
For this reason the blackfellow objects to reveal his
tribal water supply. Have often been tempted to try the
salt and sun-bath method of inducuig nigger to show
water, but refrained, as, to a person in whom the bump
of brutality is not perfectly developed, it is not so simple
as it may seem. The writer could always find water in
that county, when, by seeing nigs., he knew it to exist.
**. * •
“Chass.”: Be possible volcanic happen-
ings in Victoria (B.,"ll/10/’02)
I have been over the whole chain as far north as Mt.
Hamilton, and have explored caves in various places ;
without exception, they were as cold as a refrigerating
chamber. A volcanic hill close to Skipton has a cave
which is the home of thousands of bats. Tons of fairly
good fertiliser have been collected from it. Mt. Hamilton
has a crater about 100 ft. deep with a shallow lake in it,
and there is a narrow rocky cave on the south side into
which one has to be lowered by a rope. About a mile
below the hill is a small basin in solid rock, with a narrow
bridge of stone like a handle across it, and a perennial
spring of fresh, cool water in it. Further north, small
volcanic hills without craters extend till they strike the
Grampians. Victorian past volcanic eruptions have all
been comparatively trifling, and the Argus scribe who
predicts a renewal of fiery activity must have let Dr.
Torrey get on his nerves.
THE CONTINUED DROUGHT AND REMEDIES THEREFOR.
HIS REVERENCE (to man-engaged cutting race between Lake Scrummy
and Dryshire): “ Hadn’t I better pray for rain again , Dorothee ?”
M.C.R., &c.: “ Get out of my way; can’t you see this is no time for
foolin'. We’ve got to have water, and that sharp.”
“ J.S.W.” : Was asked, lately, this ques-
tion : Suppose a rope is placed over a pulley with a
monkey hanging on one end exactly balanced by
a weight on the other, and the monkey starts to
-climb up the rope. What happens to the weight ?
• * * «
A Q. Govt, rabbit-inspector told, the
other day, how 10,000 dead cattle were counted in
one hole on the Cooper, and how 12,000 cattle
horns were collected at a hole on Morny Plains.
And yet the rabbit hangs out still.
“ Buzz ” re the
Kanaka question:
Apropos the great
Kanaka mortality in
the earlier days on
N.Q. plantations.
Many causes combin ed
to raise the death-
figures in those old
days. Of these, home-
sickness and death by
the hared of an enemy
(usually entered as
“ by peradventure ” or
“visitation of God,”
in the coroner’s
minute - book) were
perhaps the most po-
tent. A batch of boys
would be made up of
natives of five or six,
and, maybe, a dozen
different islands, hav-
ing each, perhaps, va-
rious tribes with noth-
ing in common but
bad blood. Also, as
no care was ever taken
by the agents to see
that brothers, fellow-
islanders or tribesmen
became the servants
of one master, or were
employed in the same
district, it often hap-
pened that two 01-
more brothers parted
immediately upon ar
rival, and never met
again.
Under these circum-
stances, life, with the
unaccustomed • and
continual work, be-
came unbearable, and
“ boys” (often middle-
aged men, with wives
and families in ’the
islands) would turn
their faces to the wall
and die in from 24 to
48 hours, of sheer
misery and hopeless-
ness.
Poison was another
prevalent cause of
Kanaka mortality.
Boys would suddenly
develop symptoms of
rapid consumption,
and die within a few
weeks. At “ Mag-
nolia,” near Mary-
borough, in ’7B, five
fine, healthy Tanna
boys died thus within
three or four weeks,
and several other boys
at other plantations in
the district died in
the same way ; about
20 thus perishing during that one year. Present
scribe nursed two of them, who protested. to the
last that they were dying of poison administered
by a murderer sent from the islands to kill off the whole
of their tribe. Mr. W. Boughey, of Magnolia, tried hard
to clear up the matter and find the culprit, but he was
laughed at for his pains, as the doctors were quite satis-
fied that the deaths were due to phthisis.
But mark. About six weeks before the first of these
deaths took place (on the next plantation) I was one day
cutting a Tanna woman’s hair—which stood a good four
inches above the cranium—when I came upon several
tinv bundles of dried herbs wound closely round with
fibre. The woman explained that she was a medicine-
woman, and that these were her stock-in-trade. Now, as
all the victims were Tanna boys this incident afterwards
gave me food for much serious reflection.
A peculiar find of a
watch was made by a
drover taking cattle
from Echuca to be fat-
tened on a Gippsland
run. He had noticed
something on the horn
of a big red beast but,
as the animal was wild
and could notbehandled,
did not investigate.
Later on it was found
that the article in ques-
tion was a silver watch ;
it was secured to the
horn by a steel chain,
and hung close to the
bullock’s ear. How the
watch came there was
at first a mystery, but
one of the hands subse-
quently remembered the
narrow escape of a way-
side publican who had
been rushed by a beast
in the mob. The man
escaped unhurt, but the
bullock had hooked his
watch out of his pocket
and got away with the
trophy, without the pub-
lican being made aware
of his loss.
• * *
“ C.H.L.”: Re con •
version of sawdust into
fodder (8., 4/10/’O2). The Berlin Horse-Tramway
co. has fed its horses for years on cakes prepared
from sawdust by a chemical process which con-
verts the wood-particles into sugar, and which is
not made a secret of.
* * * *
An ancient lately told a South Australian
land board that he held a block once before and
lost it ; but, he added, the new man wasn’t hard
on him—let him and his wife and children live in
the dairy, and when that wasn’t convenient for
all of them the boys had to move out to the
reaping-machine.
A STUDY IN PHYSIOGNOMY.
THE MELBOURNE MURDERER SUICIDR.
THE DARLINGTON SUSPECT.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insuficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Mae. : You credit the alleged “ mean skunk ”
(whoever he may be) with social achievements which
could be possible only to a popular man. How can he
have the run of everybody’s house and the management
of other people’s supper parties if “ all society skip
away ” from him T.O.W. : A man may talk drunk and
lapse into slobber talk, but he doesn’t write “notish”
and “ closbed,” however drunk he maybe E.P.: Alas!
many a possible political deity is dethroned by his
dietary... .Tam : Again the literary value of getting into
gaol! F.S. (London) : We don’t print “syndicate”
matter George C. (Eng.) : “A weekly London news
letter ? ” No thanks, not even from a young gentleman
like you, who “moves in every conceivable circle.”....
Robo : Don’t object to a bright, believeable fiction, but a
lie must be circumstantial. We’re a bit of a circumstan-
tial liar ourselves, and know enough not to insult a
reader’s intelligence with a palpable absurdity 0.0. :
Oavill sen. did not swim the Channel. He failed, he said,
because he was plied with whisky by his attendants
E.L. : Win. Thompson, the old-time famous Nottingham
pugilist, known as “Bendigo, ’ received that sobriquet as
a convenient contraction of Abednsgo, his father’s three
sons being jocularly called Shadrach, Meshach, and
Abednego E.W.M. : The obstinate Cardinal Moran’s
neglect to apologise for his misstatement in re that mis-
sionary-ship’s alleged cargo of spirits is utterly in-
excusable. To have frankly acknowledged his mistake
would have added to, not detracted from, his dignity.
By omitting to manfully own up he has supplied his
enemies with a substantial and enduring grievance....
E.M.O.G. (M.L.): Impossible to say what rate might be
granted for a fixed deposit for so long a period—probably
3J or 4 per cent. Why not apply to the Public Trustee at
Wellington, and see if he will undertake the investment
for you Andy F. : Not bad jingle, but belated now
E.S.S. : “ Bogan ” excellent P.J.D.: It would look
spiteful—as it probably is John Oarew: “ Perfect H.”
in type. Feel rather like printing “Who?”
H.L.M. : Grossly indecent Kiwi: Thanks, but hardly
in Bulletin line John D. : It quite bursts up the
poetry of the picture to hear that the bridegroom is an
undertaker. Ugh !....Warrigal: It’s a plain little tale.
Too plain, too bald O. White : An interesting record ;
will print.. ..Harriet W.: Generally not, though excep-
tions are not uncommon.. ..W- Mac.: It alternately
hobbles and rushes ; cultivate some kind of a style
J.G.D. : Good in spots, but general level hardfy high
enough Sammy W.: No sense in it Hickory:
You’ve omitted your address, and you wanted us to
“send along promptly.”.. ..St. Oroix : All the Solomons
but two—Bong and Buka—are now nominally British
territory... .Richd. F. : Logical enough, but prodigiously
dull Bluey : Spirited, but too crude.. ..Joss : A versi-
fied chestnut.... J.S. : The lpst-ipan theme requires more
original treatment C.p. Denston : Rather good in an
unpretending way, but has hardly interest enough
P.M. : No, judging from iteips sent, we don’t “ think it
worth your while to continue.”.. ..Warrigal : Received..
D. J. Percy: Too jerky and incoherent... .Delahunty:
Too slight Opal: Incredibly bad verse Nymsie :
Please do boil it all down... .A. Osborn : No, thanks....
H.O.S. : Will print Payune H.: The Sydney and Mel-
bourne Universities are equally repugnant to the
Democracy Petramos : If certified as cured he is re-
leased by the Governor’s warrant; the term of sentence
in such cases is “during His Majesty’s "pleasure ”....
Oooee : You can’t slide your matter into this paper by
the dodge of getting an artist contributor to illustrate it.
It must be editorially approved first Grongal: Too
trifling... .L.B.E. : Don’t agree at all with your ideas
A. Morson : Ping-pong is dead, thank Heaven ! Ping
pong poets should follow its example... .O.J.H. (M L.)
Curiously unequal; There are some good verses and thei
some weak efforts at “ humor” ; stick to the serious....
W.W. : Not a thrill in it Unsuitable : J. 8., Yarrum
Pukeho, Kodak, Karnie, F.d’E., Gisimo, Walter M
Genung : Probably use one... .E.M.S. : Good notion, but
inefficiently carried out... .Delta : Nothing fresh in idea.
Sawdust: Not quite up to mark F.M. : Too
mechanical and obvious... .T.A.E. : You have some ideas,
but in expression they become so confused that there it
no hope of profitably disentangling them S.A.G. :
Don’t like reproducing anything, unless of startling
merit....J. Hill: (1) Lands Dept, can’t advise on an
abstract case ; send full facts. (2) No J.R. : But in
that military ride the distance is not in question.
“ Cash’s ” point was that the cables gave the time as IS
hours when it should have been six hours...-T.0.0.8.:
Hardly suitable for publication J.T.M. : Yes; bring
the facts before the Minister for Justice L.M.D.:
“Worked Out” hardly up....E.T.A. : May possibly use
“ Ignorance is 8.”... .Mahatma : Ends flatly... .Derelict:
Still hardly good enough D.H.R.: After much thinking
both “Bill” and the poem got lost Kodak: “Literary
Society” humorous in a way, but rather a mild way.
G.H.C.: “Two Loves” very shrieky kind ol
ecstasy Emoa : Ecellent B.A. : Unavailable
Smith Hill: “Euchred” incredibly bad.... The Flat:
Poem about your flatness no g00d....N.8. : “Gallop oi
Love” still rather incoherent... .M.S. : “Verse of L.”
hardly up F.D. : May do Nardoo : Rather a scram-
bling item The Dreamer: On opening our usual con-
signment of spring poetry we found your article in a
damaged condition at the bottom.... E. of N. : Thanks,
but Bulletin never shares with other papers. Also, sc
'ong a story would not suit us, anyhow... .A.C. (Bris.)
Might cost £lO,OOO to print, and you send no remittance.
Only your mere say-50.... Paroo : “ Captain,” in any case
is but a courtesy-title, as applied to a master-mariner....
Tub: Not enough capacity Albar : Dull F.B. :An
obscure licensing trouble doesn’t interest u5....H.P.
But in N.S.W. One-man-one-vote means that a man cat
vote in his residential electorate only : there is no pro
perty qualification.... Isabel: Hard to say ; sample no:
very promising Unsuitable: J.8.F., The 81uey....
G. : Variant of a very old yarn F.J.M. : Sorrj
none usable. How could we possibly prove that Worth-
ington story, if challenged? Kodak :“ R. Snake” toe
labored Wanda: Poor M‘Gooey being dead, we omif
your bright paragraph.... Tom Church: Yes, that wil;
do Lux : Very stale news indeed J.M.T. : Pluto
too suggestive... .Waster : Good, and new to us.. ..
Vul.: Castlemaine item a year old M. Oormac : “ Liv<
P.” for print Banjarine: Such a repellent subject
needs more artistic handling... .Haider : Drags too mucl
in the telling... .Kiwera : Falls flat.. ..W.J.D.: Doesn’t
quite “ get there.” P.F.M. : Too hysterical in tone
Nirvana: Overstrained kind of smartness W. J
Williams: Not bad, but out of Bulletin line Billa
bongea: Main idea good, but treatment verbose and
flabby R.M.D. : Too slight and fragmentary.
Quartzite: Funny, but too crude P.A.T. : Four items
to hand; under consideration.. ..Gordon : Sorry nof
skill enough A.L.E.S.: Pronounced “ Darby ”in bott
cases Jobber: Hasn’t point enough G.S.N. : Wil
make par. only Austin D. : Only moderate merit, anc
too long for "B.” anyhow Hamer: “God,” toe
preachy ; “ Seduction ” lacks deftness and spirit
Mulga : Both lyre-bird and bell-bird have now gone tc
roost. .Honor-B.: You apparently think that to be obscuri
is to be profound Kodak: Three good items ir
batch Smith-Hill: “Escaped” very uneven anc
metre bumps like an Auckland tram Gas and Billy
B. : Both belated Warrigal: Nothing fresh ir
it Finigan : That railway yarn has already beer
widely printed I.S.N. : Treatment fair, but idea toe
far-fetched Pippa: A good basis, but you haven’l
built well enough on it.. ..X.Y.Z. : Has hardly print
value.. ..Maurice P.: Well enough worded, but general
effect feeble A. Esam : Hardly up to mark O.H. :
No special fault, and no special merit W.J.B. : Farm
sketch the best, but none of them worth print
F.G.L. : Verse lame and tame J. Fargie : Similar yarn
has already appeared.... A. Greene :No time to decipher.
Wallaby: Illiterate and slovenly Ti-Tree : No
dash or spirit M.S.S. : You say these homeless people
come there for shelter in wet weather—and you would
remorselessly turn them out. You yourself may yet come
to lack shelter T.G.F. : That phenomenon has often
been observed in the Indian Ocean. It is known as
“milk-sea.” Verses no good....Gi'aomi s Not worth
print Wompye : Some descriptive power, but many
faults of style.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
A.W. (Melb.) : A shade too giddy—also, it’s not new.
P.H.O.: Idea anticipated.. ..St. C.: Both hopeless
S. J.O. : After all, it was a very obvious mistake. Un-
available : H.D.M., A.R.W., Barton, Marcus A., H.W.,
All. D. 8., J.F.K., Karnie, Macß.
Does any church ever part with any
money? A member of the wealthy Esterhazy
clan (Count Paul of that ilk) made over a sum of
£30,000 to the Jesuit Order when he joined its
priesthood. Now that he has tired of his pious
dissipation and renounced the priesthood. Ester-
hazy wants his money back, and can’t get it. He
is no worse off than if he had presented £30,0,00 to
the Salvation Army on being gazetted a “ cap-
tain.” The Society of Jesus and the Society of
Booth have the same big bump of acquisitiveness,
and about the same minor bump of charitableness,
but Esterhazy threatens to take his “gh vance”
into the law courts all the same. If he badly
wants the money he had better go into the Con-
verted Priest business and start a lecturing tour.
“The best remedy for the ‘barmaid
trouble, if there really is any barmaid
trouble,’ ” writes The Bulletin’s Loudon corres-
pondent, “is the automatic bar. There is one
here, just opened on the Thames embankment,
but being teetotal—as yet—it doesn’t drink. In
appearance not unlike the get-up of an American
soda fountain depot, the goods (eatables) are
arrayed in lifts behind a glass window. Drop in
threepence, the lift descends until one shelf is in
front of an aperture, and you take out a tray
holding a cup and saucer, bowl of sugar, and a pot
with dry tea in. The hot water is near by, and
your tea, after ‘ drawing, ’is ready. Ices, smokes,
buns, sandwiches, &c., likewise. Eor drinks only,
drop in coppers to price, turn tap, and fill the cup
or glass beneath. A cup of te-a, coffee or chocolate
goes at one penny a time, and, as there are no
waitresses to pay, shows a profit. Oh, for the
automatic public-house which never, by any
chance, would call you ‘Fairy ! ’”
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their pa,reels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.


CUSTOMS ADMINISTRATION
TO THE EDITOB OF THE ABCPB
Sir, —Mr. Kingston lias brought upon him
self a large amount of trouble, in that »he
ttil) not confer with business men: who
will be only too glad to help him along,
and clear the way for proper administra
tion. ' 1
Recently the Rev. Canon Tucker! of Christ
Church, Bouth Yarra, paid a visit to the Bijou
Theatre, and witnessed, with great spiritual
v 4jenefiit, the performance of that moral-enforcing
•play, “A Message from Mars.” The canon,
was so pleased that he took a large detachment
of school-children to the matinee last Wednes-
day, and on Sunday morning he preached at
ChriHt Church, basing his sermon upon “A '
Message Yrorn Mars,” dealing with the myriad
forms of selfishness existing in this world, an’d
emphasising the fact that “self wears a million
l masks.”
1
w M 1
s ***?•*■
s Aii r °*‘ s ' °°
lb sb y O£A
Ihh countering ViC«V fee (7°"' I
&> " WW"! fT •
Xt : ra Viwg my toys
oaf - fe See -ttje *ioVe.rrjcr<fe oj-
W“lTful l°°^ ir ?g
to naCftr'e Ifa«*g}i *5 CiWok
~ioi\ Know - A tow »5 M K n unger Kee^n^-
£ BETURN OF MR. .VTCUXLOOH.
CREDIT IN LONDON.
Generally there is* an idea in England that-
th« Labor party in Australia is so powerful
that it can influence legislation even to the
extent. *>f repudiation
"Hoß^e
li|}cci up J\
]]o\yz, oj- b^ s s but if I / x
on 2\ jjole £<t A.)I
-fo itO—
%'V,
4 ' <v *%* /,
%?■/, ''of A>r„ \ ty \. h\ '"f ?\' J ' J(, J,
*UQ ~ %/o ;< 4 \V°
AO \\Ks %^W
Q °% »'*ss>*
\ V--
%
"V'C —£ dorfT suf>f>o3e i'f's ~f?vo. — "but" *f
youV e done vvill S fop OfyenS Lp*Pi
I'll Twam, Thursday '
you f©*'
eVe k
Q^otf
Ad amusing episode occurred at Mr. G.'H
ZrT a 1 e meet '° g in Teran ? ** night:
, P° rt, 7 foreign-trade propagandist h ar t
Slaughter) and its just as well to have someone
handy in case of accidents.” (Loud laughter)
b* ? h,tUBe,f into chara c«’nstic pose
be proceeded, , n a sorrowful voice : “NoiHs
whaTdo 6 Plt T? ° f meetiDg you iac « 'o face,
what do you think of those libellous cartoons
about „ le , Mean win le the typical •• dry dog ”
t a J blaCk “ nd - whlto terrier,
founif > d Wa,lderinK about ‘be bail, had
found it WS* on to the platform, and sat down
pietld'hVL Mr - R r id ’ s toeB ’ juat “ he com-
his plaintively-worded query The me-
ture was » complete that it threw the audience
I lnto Pwnyams of laughter.
'ridX(y<zY N/icloKia^n
~lyc CIjdJV
I lye «w ftftlVfe. le*^»,
II Ve li&d'e wj Scr'ubW I'vfe e*>?
H?!L- S *t a- *
LJLfeK. its time Iszf on -few. ..
Tuir/el
not” - "to lea^K^
4 '
V D
S orr i e b (
*rrg£.
MELBOURNIANA.


During the second reading of the Income Tax Bill in Queensland Leg.
Council it was asked : —“ Why should not the Government put a small-
tax—say, 2s. 6d. a wheel—on vehicles’, and 2s:-fid. on bicycles! A penny
stamp might be put on any bag of merchandise which came into the^State.”
Mr. Wilson forgot to suggest a guinea stamp on all abnormal *
stomachs. The stamp to Be so placed tha,t every time the vest
is unbuttoned the stamp is destroyed.
REID’S BORROWED DOG.
■Geo. Reid (to Did Machj) : “T wish you would
lehd me your dog during recess. I think I
can make use of him.”
Rill : “ But what’s the matter with the
Dry Dog?” /^rL '
G-.R. : “ He’s had his day. People
will pot take him seriously ; while
your dog, I find, .has always been
a bit of a terror, though I
never knew jt until lately.”
In the hands of a man who understands dogs the
Pup may become a very useful dog indeed.
"I have now one apology to read to you,” added
the chairman, “and I have, purposely kept it to
the last. It Is from Mr. G. H. Reid. (Tumiiitu-
oue applause.) 'Mr. writoe:—‘l have always
i striven to keep public affaire from sectarian 1c-
; fluences; but I should be indeod blind if I were not.
| aware «that the political party with which I am
' a«?bcjate<J has been.pereietently handioa-pped by
S° r maQ y years past.* . (Great
the military dept., before parliamentary treatment
*0 MORE WORLDS TO CONQUER.
-i oo V* omanhccJ SufTrcge T league is
an institution of the past. It was
deprived of any future usefulness on .the
attainment of its one great project the
franchise—and last week 4 it .met to
■disband.” —Daily paper.
—AND AFTER.
THE COMING DOG-DAYS—AND OTHER MATTERS.


A. SAUNDERS
FOR JEWELLERY, WATCHES, CLOCKS, OPTICAL GOODS, LEATHER
GOODS, AND SILVERPLATE OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated on Hard
Nickel Silver, beautifully Chased and Ornamented, 85s.
Can be used as Cake Dish or Salver. Similar styles, 255,
80s, £2, £2 10s. A USEFUL PRESENT.
J. DIXON and SONS’ Famous English Plate.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class 4-Buttle OKU aT. Silver-plated, £2,
Similar, 255. 80s, 3os.
JAMES DIXON and SONS’ Famous
English Plate.
„ A. SAUNDERS.
PICKLE. Eirst-class English Eancy Glass,
pure Silver-plated frame, £2.
Singles Pickle, 255.
i
A. SAUNDERS.
Four o’clock CAKE FO RKS, Pure Silver-plated
on Hard White Metal, 20s.
Similar style, 12s 6d. A bargain.
JAMES DIXON and SONS’ Famous
English Plate.
A. SAUNDERS.
" LADIES’ COMPANION.” pure Solid Silver
mounted, 18s Cd ; smaller, 15s 6d.
A NICE PRESENT.
T A. SAUNDERS.
New PURSE. REFERENCE, and
TICKEI BOOK, 10s 6d, pure silver mounted,
large size, 12s 6d.
Our own Special Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
0102.—HOT WATER KETTLE and
STAND, Silver-plated on White Metal,
Extra Chased, £2los.
Similar Designs, £2, £3, £3 10s.
DIXON and SONS’ Famous English Plate.
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG CRUET, very neat, effective, 4 Cuj s
and Spoons, Pure Silver-plated on White
Nickel Silver, 21s. Other styles and pat-
terns, 255, 30s, 355, £2, £2 10s.
m
feliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
iiiiill
m
M
uuiUiii**
A. SAUNDERS.
White China, silver-mounted, 10s.
ill pure Silver-plated, nicely chased and
engraved, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
m
irmn
A. SAUNDERS.
New Design, A 1 Qdality, Silver-plated
BUTTER DISH, 12s 6d.
DIXON and SONS’ Highest class plate.
3
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTUE, square, pure
Silver electro-plated on White
Metal, beautifully hand-chased,
255; similar, 21s.
Child’s Pure Silver-mounted
Nursery Bhyme CUP, 10s.
In case, with Pure Silver Spoon,
255.
First-class Gent’s
SHAVING
BRUSH, 5s 6d;
extra mounts,
7s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s,
21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
CANDLESTICK,
Pure Silver-plated, 12s 6d.
Leaf Pattern, 8s 6d.
jlllllllllllllP
mi
sIiOND ONWiSs.YDNEV
.
A. SAUNDERS.
CARVERS, KNIFE, FORK, an.il STEED, Joseph Rodgers’ Sheffield make. In silk-lined case.
Will give every satisfaction, 20s. Other styles, 80s, £2, £2 10s.
GUARANTEED SATISFACTORY.
Specially made by JAMBS DIXON and SONS.
Famous English Silver-plated 4 O’Clock TEA SETS,
£B, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s.
KINDLY CAXL AND SEE OUR DISPLAY SHOW ROOMS.
A. SAUNDERS.
FISH SERVER and FORK, in Silk-lined Case, 2Ds, 255, 80s, 35s to £2 10s.
An Acceptable and Useful Present.
Pure PEBBLE SPECS, 4s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s ; American Gold, 12- Od. 15s
SoM Gold, 255, 3Us, 355, £2. Scientifically adjusted to suit you.
'tosMsassxuj
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class English made. Pure Silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
CAKE, £3 3s.
Other styles, similar, 21s, 255, 30s, 355, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Double JAMS, Floial Ornamented China, 255, 30s.
In sinsr’e IV fid Pure Silver-plated Rims.
A SAUNDEES’ LATEST STYLE.
FRUIT OR CAKE STAND,
Silver-plated Stand, with Fancy Olass, 30s.
Similar stand, 27s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
FLOWER STAND, Silver-
plated Base, 8s 6d per pair.
Larger styles. l?s 6a, 15s 6d,
21s.
Choice Table Appointments.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Crocodile Leather
' WALLET and PURSE.
Silver mounted, 5s 6i ;
with shield, 7s 6d.
SPECIAL VALUE.
A. SAUNDERS.
D 124. Oak BISCUIT, Silver-plated
Mounted, 20s j Shield only, 15s*
Eluted Riins, 255 ; Floral China
Mounted, 15s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNTERS.
JAM DISH, White or Fancy
Coloured Glass, Pure Silver Plate
on hard White Metal base,
Frame and Shield, 15s.
BUTTER DISH, White Glass, Pure
Silver-plated, £l.
Other Designs, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
FIELD and OPERA GLASSES,
First-class Lenses, good effect,
12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3,
and £4 10s to £l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS
LEADING ART JEWELLER,
809, 811 813, 815, & 817 GEORGE-STREET,
SYDNEY, NEARLY OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Cabinet Striking
hours and half hours, 15s, 15s 9d, 17s ti
Other styles, 25s to £2 10s. Add 2s
CLOCK,
1,20 s, 22s 6d, 255.
extra postage.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class ENTREE DISHES, pure Silver on Hard Nickel,
£3. Will last a lifetime.
A. SATJNDEKf.
TEAPOTS, very pretty and useful, Pure Silver-
plated, Hand Chased and Ornamented, 255.
Other styles and Patterns, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s, £2,
£2 10s.
JAMES DIXON and SONS’ High-class English
plate.
A. SAUNDEBS.
Salad BOWL, Ornamented China, with Servers, 30s.
Similar, 255, 355, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silve JAM SPOON, BUTTER KNIEE, and
BREAD PORK, in silk-lined Case, 355.
Similar, with Sifter instead of Bread Fork, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR ana CREAM, Pure Silver-plated on hard
White Metal, Gold-plated inside, with spoon, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Silver-plated CRUET,
specially made by
JAMES DIXON and SONS.
High-class Quality, 21s.


Headaches
, Banished
. . BT . .
Chamberlain’s
Stomach and
Liver Tablets
Price, 1/6.
JUST WHAT YOU NEED.
Headache is most often caused by con-
stipation or a torpidity of the liver. When
the bowels are constipated the poisons in the
excreta are absorbed into the system and
cause headache. When the liver is torpid
and fails to perform its functions, the bile is
absorbed into the blood resulting in head-
ache and often in a derangement of the
whole system. Two of Chamberlain’s
Stomach and Liver Tablets taken im-
mediately after supper will correct the dis-
orders of the liver and move the bowels.
This should be followed by one tablet each
day until the bowels become regular.
Sick Headache arises from a disordered
condition of the stomach and a torpid liver
Take two of Chamberlain’s Stomach and
Liver Tablets; they will cleanse the
stomach and tone up the liver to a healthy
action. Those who are subject to such
attacks usually feel dull, have little or no
appetite, and are constipated the day before
the attack comes on. In such cases the
attack may be warded off by taking three
tablets as soon as these symptoms appear.
NOTE.— It notable to obtain Chamber-
lain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets locally,
a package will he sent, post paid, upon re-
ceipt of 1/6, or six packets for 8/-, by
addressing Chamberlain Medicine Co., 64
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. 122
Missing Friends.
IF this should meet the eye of John Costello
Parwan, late of Bacchus Marsh, write to
your father at once.
TF WILLIAM BOLTON, formerly MAILDRIVER and
1 BUTCHER at BREWARRINA,' N.S.W., will com-
municate with the Undersigned, he will hear of some-
thing to his advantage.
JAMES LYNCH, Solicitor,
BREWARRINA.
THE
‘PLUM ’
Hj pi
THE
‘PLUM’
ENTLEMKN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
vJ pice a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind or
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7a 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Prick
/ Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, iij beautiful Morocco Leather Case, ? la.
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful ease, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES ne Best o,dv SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
HEALTH GIVING,
ENO’S
COOLING, j FRUIT
AND INVIGORATING. SALT.
REFRESHING,
Mj
-m
pfBS.
L
J|pl% There’s SECURITY in
Barter's
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
\ FURRED TONGUE.
')
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
Li
They TOUGH the
Be Sure they are Cartels
***..- «\
L
ime-
The basis of which is “Montserrat ” Lime-Fruit Juice.
Far Superior to
all other Sauces.
■
A GENTS— Elliott Bros. Ltd., J. Connell & Co-, D. Mitchell & Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
Dr. Clarkson’s Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Olark.son.’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
V
* «
win -bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerve 3 and Organs is irnl v wonderful
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC. ' y
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, XOs. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Pottles for fit.
CALL OR WHITE-
OWL RATE 3DKIJG STORE:,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
The Inky Way.
Mr. Sam Cook, in objecting to tell the Select Committee
on newspaper trains the circulation of S.M. Herald,
was on safe ground. In the case of Parnell against the
London Times, the circulation of the Times was the
cause of extended argument, and the court decided that
if the proprietors admitted a “considerable” or “very
large ” circulation it would not be necessary to state a
number.
• * • *
Outlaw : Comparison of advt. pages of Melb. and Sydney
dailies (“ Inky Wav,” July 12) would have been more effec-
tive had allowance been made for difference in length and
width of columns, sizes of type, &c. To decide a wager,
the advts. in Agf, and Argus of Saturday, May 31, were
carefully counted, result being : Age, 4600 ; Argus, 2880.
In this case, the cols, numbered respectively 102 and 92,
affording no criterion of the Age preponderance.
Sydney daily papers are cutting down expenses to meet
the newspaper postage. The size of papers is to be
materially reduced, and by some journals “the depart-
ments ” will be retrenched, such as Chess, Fowls, Dogs,
Parsons, &c.
• * * *
There’s an uneasy feeling among Melbourne pressmen
because the dailies are suspected of an intention to
“ retrench.” One daily paper emissary worked up some
hundreds of “reform petitions” in the country, and,
before he could get back to ask for the boss’s congratula-
tions, got the sack.
* * • *
It would be interesting to know how much the two big
Collins-street dailies, which are howling so fiercely for
retrenchment, pay to the Victorian Railway Department
for the carriage of their papers on the lines. “Paper”
trains leave Melbourne at an hour that suits the paper
proprietors probably better than it suits any other users
of the trains. On the ordinary trains that carry the
papers they have the pride of place in the guard’s van,
and are the first “ goods” delivered at the stations. The
guards assist the circulation of the papers to an extent
that is probably little known, by distributing them to
employees, settlers, &c., along the line between stations.
All this may be necessary—is necessary—for the public
convenience ; but do the proprietors of the papers pay
sufficient for such services rendered?
• * * »
“ Cohen and Harmsworth have bought the Johannes-
burg Leader.” That is a significant bit of news for Aus-
tralian journalism. In the nature of things Cohen and
Moses and Harmsworth and Pearson will one day turn
their attention to Australia. What cha .ce would the
average Australian daily paper have of competing with
enterprising capitalists who understand that the art of
making newspapers is by spending, not saving? The
cream of the various staffs could be drawn away in a
month from most of the existing proprietaries;
the work of a great body of writers who, whilst
not shorthand writers or regular journalists, can
produce brilliant occasional articles could be utilised, and
a decent cable service instituted. The result would be
a newspaper which, from the point of view of readable-
ness, would make any existing daily look foolish. And
the daily newspaper proprietary does not, as a rule, pro-
vide by its policy any reason of patriotic feeling which
would lead its readers to prefer it to a better paper run
by foreigners. The Australian daily paper is only Aus-
tralian to the extent that it is published in Australia. A
Cohen or a Harmsworth paper would be just as Austra-
lian, and if better, brighter, more up-to-date (as it would
be with intelligent expenditure) would win the pennies
and the advertising and give another great industry over
to the outsider. Australian newspaper bosses are con-
sidered cute men, but it is too much in a grubbing and
economical kind of way ; their policy is yet to be tested
in th" fire of really vigorous up-to-date opposition.
» • • *
David Syme’s apparent knuckling to Fat, Esq., at the
present juncture is not reflecting itself in his attitude
towards Chamberlain and co. It is long since the Age
has displayed so strong an anti-imperialistic quality in
its leaders. The paper that barracked with a sort of
Berserker fury for contingent after contingent to go
farm-burning and fowl-stealing in Africa, is hotly opposing
Brummagem Joe’s new Auxiliary Squadron plan which
Barton is bringing back in his hat. David has started
out to barrack for elective State Governors, too.
* • * *
Sydney D.T., July 31, had 3J columns about the hunt
for the murderers of Constable Guilfoyle. That afternoon
came the Mount Kembla calamity, and the issue of Aug. 1
disposed of the incidents of the chase for the criminals in
14 lines. It’s the papers that make the news. Give a
dog-fight three cols, with double-line headings, and the
tram-passenger will discuss it as eagerly as a European
battle.
» * * •
The relative importance of things on a Sydney R.C.
paper “ contents ” bill :
1. “The King’s Crucifix.” His Majesty at heart a
Catholic.
2. John Redmond and the Boers.
3. “A Visitation of our Saviour.” A Miracle at St.
Pierre.
The King, the politician, and the Saviour.
• • • *
A feature of N.S.W. journalism, fostered probably by
free postage, is the “ trade journal.” Several large firms
run papers to advertise their businesses. Certainly the
best of them is the Golden Fleece, the proprietors of
which made the experiment of putting a literary jour-
nalist (F. J. Broomfield) in Charge, with happy results for
the reading public.
* * * •
The Deniliquin (N.S.W.) Chronicle ceased publication
a few months ago, after a career of over 30 years. Died
of thirst practically. The drought kills newspapers as
well as sheep.
* * * *
Recently a N.S.W. country paper wanted an “ editor,”
and in response to a letter of inquiry as to the duties,
salary, &c., one of the applicants received the following
reply :—“ Dear Sir, —I hardly think the billet would suit
you, or you it. What we want here is a man who can
report, fix up a leader now and again, pick up stamps
when his services are required, read the proofs, take a
hand at machining, collect and canvas, and make himself
generally useful. If you know of a likely young fellow
who wants breaking in, who will come along for thirty
shillings a week, we will guarantee his fare (second-class)
if he remains six months.”
* * * »
David S.vme is the subject of an interesting notice in
the somewhat belated and mostly wearisome Cyclopaedia
of Victoria, edited by veteran journalist James Smith.
King David sat for his photo for the Cyclopiedia, so he
presumably supplied his own material for the biography.
It states that when Ebenezer Syme died in 1860 leaving
his brother sole boss of the paper “the fortunes of the
Age were at their lowest ebb . . Mr. Syme advocated
Protection at a time when the commercial element not
only controlled the markets and dominated the channels
of advertising, but also exercised its sway over local
politics, the importing interests being almost strong
enough to crush the paper out of existence. . . During
the time Mr. Syme’s paper was incurring the antagonism
of vested interests by supporting a liberal land policy and
advocating Protection the Age was not a success
financially. At length; early in 1868, its proprietor
ventured uponthe bold policy of reducing the price of
the paper from 3d to Id. The effect of the change was
that . . . in a few months the circulation rose from a few
thousands to 20,000 a number considered very large in
those days.” After all, the story of King David’s
greatness boils down to the simple fact that he reduced
his paper to a penny some 25 years before the Argus
followed suit. If the fatinen importers of 1868 had
pooled the necessary cash for a half-penny daily rag in
opposition to the Age there might possibly be no
David whooping for a disguised Tory Ministry to-day.
* * * *
Veteran writer James Smith now does the bulK of the
first-night notices for Melb. Age, as evidenced by the
liberal supply of Shakespearean and other quotations. It
is years since the Age possessed any regular critic. Vari-
ous member's of the staff have done the work at intervals,
but they all settle down eventually to political writing,
that being the best way of reaching the heart of boss
Syme. t
“Outlaw” tells this really elegant lie: “Genial Sam
Winter, who edits Melbourne ’Erald while the irre-
pressible Col. Reay does ‘ special commissioner’work in
England, with added worries, has increased his stock of
objurgations. T’other day the ‘ boss ’ was in the throes
of writing a sub-leader, when he struck his gong sharply
for the messenger boy. There was a new boy on hand, and
he didn’t know enough to run for his life when he heard
thatbell. The editor had cursed creation and hit the clapper
a dozen times before the new boy got a move on. The
final smack at the gong was disastrous for the boss, who,
instead of hitting where he meant to, impaled his left
hand on the copy-spike. When the boy wafted himself
up and asked politely, ‘ Did you ring, sir ? ’ he got for
answer—* Did I ring, you blanky blanky ! Send me
a blanky undertaker I ’ The boy, electrified into action,
left in one leap. What the boss said when a man in a
black suit came upstairs five minutes later, and men-
tioned that he was the undertaker and understood that
the editor wanted him, simply can’t be printed in a
family journal like The Bulletin.
P # P P
Acting-Premier Deakin receives pressmen with a breezy
geniality, which serves him well, for when pressed with
an ugly question, he invariably turns it off jokingly.
“ You had a bad time over the fodder duties,” insinuated
an interviewer one day. “ Yes, that’s because they gave
us so much chaff,” replied Deakin. In this frivolous way
he often avoids expressing a serious opinion. Barton has
not the same happy knack of evading awkward interro-
gatories. He is liable to become irritable, and is far less
approachable than Deakin.
“ Gumleaf ” (Vic.) : The political machine masquerading
in the guise of a newspaper is certainly not an educator.
To educate means to develop and cultivate the mind —
to teach men to think and do for themselves. The aim
of the political newspaper-machine is to hustle men into
believing its political creed without thinking, so that it
may have a firmer hold upon them for its own aggrandise-
ment. The instruction given by the newspapers is like
that given by the priests and parsons a few centuries ago.
And it is given for the same reason—to bring in the
pence. Indeed, the daily newspaper is fast stepping into
the empty shoes of the priest and parson in the matter of
controlling the minds of the people. Political freethought
is what Australia is just now badly in need of. The
people have for the most part broken away from the
religious boss, only to place themselves under the thral-
dom of the political newspaper machine. And their
second condition in worse than their first. The religious
boss worked chiefly upon one only of men’s weaknesses—
fear. The political newspaper-machine works upon
the whole gamut of men’s baser qualities. It is
always ready to sool the big dog on to the little one,
apart from the merits of the quarrel. In Victoria nearly
all the newspapers went frantic in their endeavors to set
the public against the public servants when the Govern-
ment proposed to rob the latter for the benefit of the
former. The public had the most pennies. Among other
things, too, it threatens to sweep the genuine newspaper
man off the face of the earth. There will soon be no use
for a “ news-getter” in any newspaper office in Australia.
The man who knows what news is, knows how and where
to get it, and how to dress it up so that it will be of in-
terest to the greatest number of people, will not be
wanted unless he is willing to become a petty political
intriguer.
• * * *
“ Gorolver ” : Re “ Kiwi’s ” and “ Quilp N.’s ” remarks
about copyright in Maoriland : On the Order Paper of
the House of Representatives the following appears :
“35. Mr. Guinness to ask the Colonial Secretary—(l)
Whether the Government has received any communica-
tion of the Law Lords of the Imperial Parliament amend-
ing the Copyright Act? and (2) do they intend during the
present session to introduce a Bill amending the law with
a view of granting further protection to authors and the
holders of copyright of,literary and dramatic works, from
having their property pirated or performed by persons
without obtaining the necessary license from the holders
of such copyright ? ” In Maoriland there is probably more
pirating of the work of English and American authors
than in any other country, and the foregoing question
appears to be aimed at that evil. A local writer recently
sent stories to two Maoriland weekly papers, and received
in each case a polite note stating that the editor would be
pleased to print as honorary contributions. He could not
expect payment, said the blessed editor, when he had the
whole magazine literature of the world to select from.
Substitute “steal” for “select,” and we have the whole
thing in a nutshell. But the editors are not to blame.
The editor of one local weekly paper once told me that he
wished he had power to pay contributors. These
“ weeklies ” are run on most mangy lines.- The fiction is
“selected,” the cables, &c., are reprints from a daily,
usually run by the same firm ; the social notes cost about
£1 a week, and athletics are supplied by enthusiasts free
(in return for one copy of the paper). Of course, if every-
thing were paid for half the papers would succumb (good
job, too). If the Government can be induced to introduce
a Bill for the promotion of literary honesty there will be
rejoicing among authors on both sides of the world.


66
D.C
L
K
H
S
V
W
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO., 88 King-st.,
HOW TO KEEP COOL.
We stiongly recommend all who suffer
from the heat to add a few drops of Condy’s
Fluid to the Daily Bath or Foot Bath.
A Condy’s Fluid Bath imparts a most
delightful sensation of coolness, freshness
and purity, it invigorates the body and
braces the nerves. The strengthening and
coolin': effects are Simply Magical. Tired
or Tender feet are instantly relieved. Book
on bottle contains full directions.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists
throughout the British Empire. Beware
of substitutes. Insist on having “Condy’s
Fluid.” Condy & Mitchell, of London,
England, are the only Makers and their
name and address is at foot of label.
ill
Before booking- your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Callin', 3-., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
<3-0 TO HELL-
I(K)I,A !S I > for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagel),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
“Don’t shout”
I hear you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
"How?’ Oh some-
thing new— The Wilson.
Common-sense Ear-
Drum. I've a pair in my
e a rs now. you can't see them
-they're invisible. I wouldn’t
know I had them in myseli.
only that I hear all rigfjt."
The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from anv other de-
vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
CHAIHtttS. 229-231 Collins St.. MelD.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Sydney Metropolitan Branch of the
A.N.A. has just met'and declared a small deficit
for the year. There can be no further doubt of
the purely national character of this organisation.
It has not yet been decided to float a loan to pay
off the deficit, but doubtless that will come.
The territory whicli Jenkins Iscariot, of
S. Aus., proposes to give away, not in return for
a transcontinental railway, but merely as a bonus
for building the uncompleted section of the line,
is greater than the combined areas of Victoria and
Tasmania, and one and a half times as great as
Maoriland!
The late R.C. Archbishop Vaughan peri-
odically voted for and sang the praises of the
budding freetrader, G. H. Reid. “The Arch-
bishop is for him. Read this letter—and this
letter ! ” were the cries of Reid’s election-agents in
those days. Now they will take round a Dill-
Macky letter.
The “ Secession ” movement, which has
already been jeered out of two Parliaments, made
an appearance last week in N.S.W. Assembly.
Eden George brought the secession idea forward,
and a thin House hurried out to have a drink,
and left him talking to the furniture—which
couldn’t get away.
Melb. Herald, which is ferociously Kya-
bramitic, draws the line at cancelling Execu-
tive Councillors’ railway life-passes. Fink, the
jumping-Jack of Jolimont, who, during a momen-
tary spell in his acrobatics, chanced to be a
honorary Minister, and accordingly became en-
titled to a free pass for life, is not only, at
time of writing, a whole-hog ’pootra, but a con-
trolling influence in the counsels of the “im-
partial but not neutral r vendor of Melb. evening
garbage.
A WARNING.
Minister Bent has deprived the Vic. railway employees
of their half-rate and privilege tickets (even in travelling
to work). He has done away with their allowances for
fuel, light and water. And yet, on Premier Irvine’s
intervention, he withdrew his proposal to abolish free life-
passes to Executive Councillors.
PREMIER IRVINE: “ Now Tommy, kill as many
porters and common cleaners as you want, but
remember this is the close season for fat men! ”
Sydney D.T. ferrets out, and prints with
joy, a Canadian paper reference to Premier Bartpn
as “ looking like a R.C. priest.” Evening News,
of the same city, drags into an editorial foot-note
on titles an allusion to “ the Pope’s medal which
Mr. Barton received.” By such means is the sec-
tarian flame industriously fanned.
The Rhodesian and Kimberley gangs, who
conspired to suspend the Cape Constitution, were
circumvented by “Toby” Barton. Premier Sprigg
assured present writer that Barton’s grasp of con-
stitutionalism and subtle advocacy of retention
overpowered Chamberlain. On the other hand,
the Imperialistically-sodden Seddon went with
the gold and diamond bugs ; but he was snuffed
out.
Last year one Klein, supposed Bessara-
bian agent, worked the Philp Govt, at his own
sweet will. Klein, having represented that a
considerable number of Bessarabians desired to
settle in Q., was supplied with a free passage to
that State, was carried free over the local railways
in various directions, and received a free passage
back to London. To accommodate Herr Klein
the Philp Govt, also passed a Bill to make con-
cessions to his compatriots who were represented
as yearning for the flesh-pots of Bananaland. For
months now nothing has been heard of Klein ;
the Act has lapsed, and the Agent-General mourn-
fully reports that Klein had negotiated with the
British-India Co. for passages from Odessa, but
his menu was so elaborate that the co. could not
undertake the passages at the stipulated price.
Mr. Dick, M.P., scored in N.S.W. Ass.,
when he challenged the Govt, to refer to the
‘‘ 1J L an Committee the accounts connected with
ue ’- le R °yA visit, the Contingents and
the Resumptions. "’ Those are the four extra-bad
financial smells kept bottled up at the Treasury
just now; and not until there is a change of
Government will the exact truth as to them be
known.
As showing how the Public Service Board
does not control N.S.W. Public Service, the
i ncreases in salaries for the present financial year in
public offices, outside the Board’s jurisdictio - j
amounted to some £63,000. So when the Bor d
claims that increases under its control amount io
only £90,000, it is easily seen that the Board
itself is powerless as a check against extravagant
employment of Govt, servants.
Minister Bent’s Victorian railway per-
centage reductions are scooping in the pool with a
vengeance Recently a casual hand in the depart-
ment, rated at 10s. a day, but not in regular work,
had, at the end of the fortnight, 3s. 9d. to draw
(some2hrs. work after 5 p.m.). But because he
would have earned over £125 a year if he had been
employed all the time he was docked of a per
centage, and the unfortunate casual received the
munificent sum of 3s. 7d. !
Federal Attorney-General Deakin dropped
a delicate hint to the Q. secessionists at the Barton
welcome when he stated that Separation would
mean absolute ruin to the sugar industry in that
State. In the event of secession on the ground of
Kanaka labor on the plantations, Federated Aus-
tralia would have no object in differentiating
between Q. sugar and that grown by colored labor
outside the Commonwealth. And a high duty on
its staple industry would soon convert the piebald
crowd now running Philp, into rabid Federationists
again.
Mr. Lesina has been suspended from
Queensland Assembly for accusing the Govt, of
corruption ” in giving huge advts. to little rags
with a circulation of about 20 but with a profound
admiration for the said Govt. Mr. Lesina has an
unwholesomely suspicious mind. The gilded
kindness of_Q. Govt, to hard-up pressmen of its
way of thinking has long been a subject of
comment in newspaper circles all over Aus-
probably only due to charity.
£132 in 12 months (1901-1902) did the Philp Govt,
(per medium of the Advertising Board) spend in
advertising with a certain obscure little Brisbane
rag. The subsidy stopped a few weeks ago, and
the organ aforesaid promptly died—its feet in the
gutter and its head on the Treasury doorstep.
If God made the earth to be the private
property of the few, and not the heritage of all,
then He is the father of the
few, and the step-father of
the rest.”
A good deal of the
desire for a change in the
N.S.W. Public Service
Board arises from an im-
pression, right or wrong,
that the Board, notwith-
standing its heroics of in-
dependence, has been, and
is, amenable to political
and social influences. Let
the Board give a twelve
months’ statement of ap-
Elications for employment
acked up by endorse-
ments of Ministers and
ex-Ministers of the Crown,
and what proportion of
these were rejected, as
compared with rejections
when applications were
not so supported. The
social influence is more
difficult to guage; but
while applicants haunt
clubs to get members to
speak for them, it is not
surprising that unpleasant
suspicions exist.
Premier Seddon, being interviewed in
London on his return from Ireland and asked his
opinion on the eternal Irish difficulty, “replied
cautiously that his stay in Ireland had been too
brief to enable him to form an opinion.” Thereby
he avoided making any remarks that might
offend the Tory and Coercionist British Govern-
ment. Yet the same Seddon was ready to form
all sorts of tremendously violent opinions about
the Transvaal difficulty without setting foot in
the country at all. There seems to be a large
discrepancy here somehow.
No sooner is Vic. Factories Act a thing of
the past than organised sweating—the sweating of
the sub-contractor—starts as of yore. A partner-
ship case at Collingwood (Melb.), last week, dis-
closed that certain boots, made by the small firm
implicated for a bigger firm, were actually sold to
the latter at Is. Bd. and 2s. 2d. per pair, and that
the man who made the boots could only earn £1
on 60 pairs. As the Chamber of Manufacturers
has distinctly declared it is averse to sweating,
will it kindly say what it calls this ? And as it
objects to wages boards will it propose some other
remedy ?
r , Under S.A. Premier Jenkins’s Northern
Territory land-grant railway job the syndicate
will not only get a grant up to 90,000,000 acres,
but the grant is to carry with it all gold, silver,
and minerals, and (professedly) 10 years’ exemp-
tion from taxation. The absurdity of the situa-
tion is that the Commonwealth has power to levy
land-tax, income-tax, absentee-tax, railway-pas-
senger duty, and any other imposts it pleases all
over the Commonwealth, and unless Jenkins can
persuade the Federal Parliament to guarantee the
10 years’ exemption the agreement doesn’t amount
to a row of pins. Jenkins, doubtless, has the
cheek to profess to bind the Federal Parliament,
but it isn't bound by Jenkins’s cheek. Whether
it takes over the Territory or not, its power to tax
land there, or in any other part of Australia or
Tasmania, is beyond all question ; and if Jenkins’s
syndicate doesn’t know this, that is a matter for
Jenkins and the syndicate to settle hereafter.
THE PRESS TRUST.
SYME : “ Now, Willoughby, there’s just one other little
thing I want attended to in order to get us both into
line—the matter of Freetrade.”
The necessity of having a successful busi-
ness man as the Ministerial head of Govt, depart-
ments is insisted upon by the Tory class of
politician, among whom most of the successful
business men are to be found. Robert Reid is the
most successful business man in the Irvine Minis-
try, but the scheme works out badly in his case.
He is rarely at Cabinet meetings and is
hardly ever to be found in his department—that of
Education. When he held office on a previous
occasion he spent most of his time abroad. The
Iceberg crowd has not been on the Treasury
benches long, but during that time Reid has con-
trived to be out of the State twice.
Mr. Ogier, a Victorian Black-Wednesday’d
P.M., has been highly elated by the ver-
dict of a minority of a Vic. Bar committee
on his theory that the death of the almost-for-
gotten Queen Victoriaihas shattered ad the Aus-
tralian Parliaments and their recent statutes into
unconstitutionality, He has now regaled the
local Geographical Society with a lecture wherein
he annexes Riverina and the Bombala and Dal-
gety Federal capital sites to Victoria by re-assert-
mg the ancient theory that the real boundary of
Victoria is not the Indi source of the Murray,
but the Eumeralla source. As the capital site
has to be in N.S.W., Mr. Ogier can be trem-
blingly advised not to put in an unarmed appear-
ance in the affected districts.
The spectre that is now troubling
Westralia: It is alleged, on respectable engi-
neering authority, that the great reservoir, which
is to furnish the goldfields’ water-supply, after
collecting water for two years, has only enough in
it to supply the goldfields with 2,500,000 gallons
daily for six months. And all the calculations
were based on the assumption that it would supply
5,000,000 gallons a day all the year round. Other
estimates make things look much worse than this.
Anyhow, for good or ill, the works will be finished
in a few months, and then the inflow of the great
waterworks loans must cease, and 1000 men will
be thrown out of employment on to a very weak
labor market. No wonder Westralia has high
jumps in its sleep.
The Bill of Dr. Creed, M.L.C., for the
alleged reform of N.S.W. Leg. Council turns up
again. Dr. Creed proposes that the number of
members in the Council shall be fixed so that that
body can’t be swamped when it collides with the
Assembly by the appointment of new men ; that
each M.L.C. shall have a seven years’ lease of his
billet ; and that when a batch of members retires,
'the Council and the Assembly shall sit together
and elect their successors, so that the old fossil
shall help to choose the new fossil. There are
also provisions for a joint sitting in case of dead-
lock, but the radical defect of the whole scheme is
that it professes to treat the Council as a live body,
when it is really defunct, and is only sitting up
to save burial-expenses.
The sham and hypocrisy of politics have
been well illustrated in Victoria by the unopposed
election of Duncan Gillies to the Speakership.
The unanimity of the election was something
tearful to see. Having been violently pointed at
by the Clerk of the House, Iceberg Irvine drifted
to the table and proposed Gillies. Peacock
seconded the nomination with the emotion of a
sick man. Gillies was conducted to the chair
amid wild cheers. Gillies has been lauded as a
high constitutional and Parliamentary authority.
He may have been all his friends claim for him,
but if that is so, then it is wonderful how much a
man can forget. It is a long time since Gillies
made a speech that could be understood. All his
recent utterances have been absolutely incoherent
and silly.
Referring patronisingly to recent Vic-
torian criticisms (probably to ex-Attorney General
Bryan O’Loghlen’s in Melb. Herald) on the un-
fair operation of the Commonwealth Claims Bill
(now Act) on persons wishing to sue the Common-
wealth, Prime Minister Barton pities the “ignor-
ance ” of those who do not know that the Crown
can never be sued as a matter of right. Barton
is evidently of opinion that the N.S.W. practice
of putting up a nominal defendant (the Colonial
Treasurer, for instance) as the Aunt Sally for the
Crown, is universal. He is eertainly “ignor-
ant ” of the fact that in Victoria the subject has a
right to sue the Crown direct by petition in all
matters of contract, without the necessity of a
nominal defendant The litigant against the
Commonwealth has now only the inferior N.S.W.
right.
Mayor Shoppee (quaint name,
Shoppee !), of Ballarat, proposes
that a memorial (Shoppee is a per-
fect whale on memorials) should be
raised (presumably with the rate-
payers’ money) at Kyabram to com-
memorate “the great work done in
the cause of reform.” Wouldn’t it
be better to allay this violent pre-
viousness, and wait till something is
done ? The reforms haven’t arrived
yet. though Bent has; and the man
who puts up a statue to the thing
he is going to do is too sudden for
this world.
The old cry of “ Measures,
not Men,” was raised at the late
Victorian election, and did some
service. But if you don’t get the
men, the measures don’t follow, so
it is a fool of a cry. Every great
political measure has some man or
other of corresponding size carrying
it. A cockroach doesn’t carry a
quart pot, nor does a Bent carry a
Factories Act. The measure with-
out the man is only a somnolent
piece of literature abandoned by the
roadside with no power of move-
ment or progress or usefulness;
and it has just as much chance
to get ahead of itself as has an
empty bran-bag left in the middle
of Sahara.
The just-closed session of the Australian
Parliament lasted 520 days. The Reps, sat 218
times, the Senate 179. Of the Reps., Mauger and
King O’Malley missed no sitting, Tudor, Crouch
and Speaker Holder but one, and Treasurer
Turner but three. In the Senate, Dobson and
Smith stand highest with 166 attendances each.
Those who adorned the Chambers least often were,
in the Reps., Opposition-leader Reid, M‘Lean and
Bruce Smith —all of N.S.W. The most consistent
absentees in the Senate, not reckoning cases where
absence was caused by illness, were Harney and
Millen. Longest sitting was on 3rd December,
1901, for 33 hours, when a beaten, malevolent
Opposition stonewalled the tariff. For the record
of work done, the session will compare well with
one of any Parliament, in any country, of late
times. Out of 32 measures introduced, only seven
were postponed or shelved.
The Bulletin grows dead tired of seeing
this alleged “ reform ” motion on the business
paper of N.S.W. Assembly :
Mr. J. C. L. Fitzpatrick to move: “That, in the
opinion of this House, the system at present in vogue of
treating as ordinary revenue moneys received from the.
sale, by auction or otherwise, of the public estate, is one
that should be immediately discontinued ; and this Hdus©
urges that all future receipts from this source should be
set apart as the nucleus of a fund fi'om which to meet the
State’s obligations in regard to interest on the National
Debt, and for the purpose of meeting, as far as possible,
the cost of extending our railway system for the benefit
of the producers.”
The question is : Supposing the motion is carried,
and about £2,000,000 a year of land revenue is set
aside to meet about £2,700,000 of interest, how
much will be left for railway extension, and how
long will it be before the fund gets to be anything
more than a nucleus ?
THE PIG.
CUSTOMER (angrily): “ Waiter, this stuff is not
fit for a pig to eat.”
WAITER: “Well, don’t eat it, sir.”
Sydney D.T., which has a bitter anti-
Labor fit just now, describes a bill introduced tu
N.S.W. Assembly with the object of getting rid
of the “Taff Vale decision” as regards trades-
unions, as “ a bill giving trades-unions the right to.
break laws with impugnity”—a grossly unfair
and ignorant statement. The fact is that by the
growth of custom, to fulfil a very distinct and
useful purpose, trades-unions in English-speaking
countries have been allowed certain powers and
privileges. These, after standing for many years,
have now, apparently, been swept away by the
Taff Vale decision of the English House of Lords.
The question at issue is not to give trades-unions
any new rights, but to restore the old ones. In
N.S.W., by the way, the Industrial Arbitration
Act provides a haven of refuge for threatened
trades-unionism, and to an extent does away with
the necessity of new legislation on the subject.


ALWAYS GO TO
PALINGS
PIANOS
ORGANS
AND ALL MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Catalogues Free,
FOR
MUSIC
338 GEORGE ST,
SYDNEY.
A LADY 67 YEARS of AGE
Bright’s Disease#
Erysipelas,
Liver Complaint
VITADATIO
Read Mrs. H. FLYNN’S Testimony.
Nowra, 16th July, 1901.
The Proprietor of VITADATIO.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that I have taken VITA-
DATIO, and it has completely cured me of Bright’s
Disease, Erysipelas, and Liver Complaint, and has also
cured me of Swelling in the Legs and arms, which I had
suffered from for the last 40 years. I can now go about
my work and do it as well as I could 30 years ago, which
is saying a good deal. I am over 67 years old. I pro-
cured the VITADATIO from Woodhill and Co.’s Store.
Yours very gratefully,
(Mrs.) H. FLYNN,
„ Budgong, Nowra, N.S.W.
Witness :
H. Graham
W. Pullan
J. A. McArthur,
F. Hawcroft
Employees of
Woodhill & Co.,
Storekeepers,
Nowra.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The Price of Medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
Do You
Wear a
Truss ?
If So,
TRY
Denyer's Elastic Trass.
IT 18 THE VERY BEST.
No Discomfort to Wearer. Suits any Rupture.
P . r !?® s 17/6 Single; 25/" Double.
Send Measure and P.O. Order.
IIEiIVCR RDfIC 281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
UEnTEIf DnUO* Opp. Hunter St.
AND AT MELBOURNE.
Newman’s
Antiseptic Pastilles.
Tub Best for ale Affections of the Throat.
TRY THEM. PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
S. HARRIS, M. P. S., Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Telephone 2288. 82 KING-ST., SYDNEY.
At Dawn and Dusk:
By Y. J. Daley. In nandsome cloth,
with portrait. Price 55.; postage, 4d.
Letter
From
Tasmania
Below.
Read it.
3
THE
CALLAGHAN
23/6
A PAIR.
POST
FREE.
DUTY
FREE.
Gentlemen’s Fine
Calf Lace Boots,
Whole Goloshed,
Calf Kid Legs, Made-
to-Order Appearance
PRICE 22
“Messes. CALLAGHAN & SON, ~
mL ?® a , r Sirs ’,~ The Boots arrived safely on Saturday, and lam very pleased with hW
They fit like a glove, and had I had my measure taken I could nob have got a more perfectly
fatting Boot made to order. I shall give you orders in the future. Yours faithfully,
March 17, 1902.
A. E. K,
Mount Hojbe, Tasmania.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st., Sydney.
Minister Bill Lyne suggests that the pro-
posed trip round Australia should commence about
February, “ in order to escape the fever season in
British New Guinea.” But it is always the fever
season in British New Guinea, and a shuddery
kind of fever it is. Also there are fevers to be
met with by the unacclimatised at Port Darwin
and in the Gulf of Carpentaria. Lyne should
remember that if the expedition catches strange
diseases it won’t improve its opinion of tne
Government, and may affect its vote very seriously.
Vice-Admiral Beaumont last week paid
his first official visit to Adelaide, and he takes
several of the vessels of his fleet with him.
Although S.A. pays (somewhat grudgingly, it
must be admitted) towards the maintenance of
the Auxiliary Squadron, it is seldom that even one
of its blue-jackets is seen in that State, and no
money is ever spent there for stores or repairs.
The Irvine Government has effectually
applied the gag to a number of its supporters.
None of them was allowed to utter a word on the
debate on the address-in-reply. Andrews from
Geelong, who took a manly independent stand at
the election, refusing to be patronised by
‘ Reform ” leagues, Govt, or press, made a slash-
ing attack upon the inconsistencies of the Premier
and his “strong” Ministers. Andrews proved
himself a master of raillery and invective. He
mocked at the Premier’s newspaper reputation
for strength and recalled to mind the week-kneed
namby-pamby speeches made by that coldly
superior person when Opposition leader. Irvine
takes criticism badly, and as Andrews drove home
hjs Points he S at biting his lips until they nearly
bled. Andrews has a keen sense of humor and
illumined his speech with many telling gibes.
Previously he was known as a quiet, modest young
member, but in one speech he has won a reputa-
tion as a slashing fighter.
R.I.P. Henry James M'Cooey, naturalist,
writer, Bohemian, who died in Wangaratta Hos-
pital, Oct. 8. His greatest wish was “ that he
should be missed.” Had H. J.M. grubbed among
humans for his analyses of life, he would have
secured a large reading public, and his pecuniary
reward would possibly have been greater; but his
information would have been less important, as
only a few have the advantage of observing what
the white wood-grub has for supper, or how many
rings the double-tailed iguana has on his neck.
Poor M'Cooey will have his wish—he will be
missed weekly by hundreds of men who, lying
now helpless in hospitals and asylums, knew the
natural life of the bush as he recounted it.
Solicitor-General Davies, M.L.C. (Vic-
toria), on the proposed reform of the constitution,
and the attitude of the House of 48 Rich
Landlords :—
Although there would be no difficulty in passing
economic measures, there might be some in passing some
portions of the Parliamentary reform scheme, but when
the House recognised that it was the will of the country
it would take heed of the expression of that will.
Seeing that the proposed economic measures don’t
touch the Landlords personally, there will cer-
tainly be no difficulty about them. And as regards
the breaking down of its own legislative mono-
poly, the Council will consent to that just as soon
as it recognises that it is the will of the country,
and it always recognises that just as soon as it is
scared out of its wits by public clamor and fancies
that its life is in danger, but no sooner. Then, as
Davies, M.L.C., puts it, the 48 Landlords will
“take heed.” Heaven knows that is almost the
only thing they haven’t taken, so far.


Banking, Public Companies, Ac.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.——
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
*s>
C?-
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
axr.s.-w.
(Qont deplete Q«|. (Jo., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
*7 A. CASTLEREAGH ST., *7 A
1 SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
'—THIS-.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - • 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; lion. 0. J. Robbrts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruck Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Mii.lkr.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299—assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
119 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Pe Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director-JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Oo. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 900 ... £350.000
Royal Bank of Queensland
IjIMITKD. “
CAPITAL PAID-UP £451,307
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 181,859
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 56,000
£689,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Queensland Smelting Compy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Jlranch
Office, 62 Market-street. Melbourne.
HE SAVINGS BANK IN VICTORIA
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Go.), Horn>John Ske, Lt.-Col. Borns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,500,000
Hank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. ~ .. 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,285,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,285,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Ciias. K. Mackellar, M.L.0., President.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.LO.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Auditors:
A. G. Milson, Esq. Harrington Palmer, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circulai
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business. - -•
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America"
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH,-General -Manager.
The trustees, executors
..." - AND :» ■ - ■ ■ ■•■
AGENCY' 'COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Col'ins-st., Melbourna.
CAPITAL PAID-UP ... £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s'
business) £9576 13 4
Directors : F. It, Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, ;
C. M. Officer, Esq.-; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BOItROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manage!
Shipping:
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
to
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
_ Lenra, Saturday, Oct. 25, 2 p.m.
Gabo, Tuesday, Oct. 28, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tuesday, Oct. 28, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Tuesday, Oot. 28, 5 p.m.
(No Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Peregrine, Saturday, Oct. 25, 2 p.m.
Bunvah, Tuesday, Oct. 28, 5 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Saturday, Oct. 25, 2 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 1, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
I Lass o’ Qowrie, from Townsville
► weekly. Passengers and Caryo
I booked throusrh.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner (Jeorge and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
PERSIC, to Sail on or about 24th OCTOBER.
RUNIC, MEDIC, AFRIC, and SUEVIC
to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 27 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 33 2 6
Only One Claes of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, parker & (o's [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRA LIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Bates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
A.KTD
LINE
via
San Francisco,
California.
NEW
SERIES
-• OP
EXCURSIONS
TO THE
RIVIERA
OF
AMERICA.
FIRBT-CLABB THROUGHOUT.
COSTS £6O.
Covering' Return Passages, Steamer and Ra
Expenses in San Francisco, and Hotel Del
Southern California, about Ten Days’ stay in
with liberty to remain longer. Steamers
follows:
41, Hotel
l Monte,
America,
leave as
THE GREAT
/ OVERSEA )
\ OVEREAND /
HIGHWAY
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM,
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, and AMERICA.
The NEWEST, LARGEST (6000 Tons each), FASTEST,
and ONLY TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS engaged in
the TRANS-PACIFIC PASSENGER SERVICE from
Australia and New Zealand.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., LTV.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
TIIHE Directors of the PERPETUAL
-L TRUSTEE COMPANY, Limited,
Sydney, have TRUST FUNDS to LEND
in sums from £3OO to £50,000 on security of
revenue-producing City and Suburban Properties
or Country Broad Acres, at from 4 per cent.
Special facilities given for payments in reduction
without fine or notice.
°“T No. 56 ACETYLENE CAS Catalogue
axt
is the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Best
ACETYLENE CAS GENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, and
everything in connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatio
Acetylene Cas
Generators
in daily use.
Large Stocks of the
Best
Carbide
of Calcium
Quotations on application.
James MARTIN & CO.,
161 Clarence Street,
Nr. King-st., {Sydney.
EVERY WOMAN
ss
is interested and should know
about the wondeiful
Maryel Whirling Spray
The new Vaginal Syringe.
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. Endorsed by Physicians.
MARVEL CO. ( Times Building, N.Y.
Sole Australasian Agents—
The Marvel Co. of Australia,
(Box 623 G.P.0.) CAHDEN BUILDINGS,
418 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Always use at Bedtime
to prevent Mosquito bites,
CALVERTS
20 per cent.
Carbolic Soap.
A delightful soap for toilet purposes.
Most useful to prevent or'cure insect bites
or stings, itch, piles, ringworm, etc.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
Medical.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED
Eye Lotion,
Positively Cures
Swelling Blight, Bunged Eyes, &c.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
nxr. id. n..
(NORD-DKUTSCIIKR LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
Interstate First Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN, 26th NOVEMBER,
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL :
Nov. 3, Dec. 1, Dec. 29.
SEE AMERICA IN NOVEMBER,
DECEMBER, JANUARY.
The Rocky Mountains and Niagara
Falls in Winter Garb, as seen from
Train, are tha Grandest Sights in
the World.
EVERY COMFORT AND LUXURY ON
TRAVELLING.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
RUPTURE SS
without
operation or pain,:
Throw away
your Truia
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
iTreatise No. io.. , Address:
• SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., ENG.,
Con, Russell & Collins Sts.,
r MELBOURNE.
UIMSELFCURED
Mr. Robert E.
PARKHURST
- - of Pitt St., Sydn y, says if any sufferer from DEBILITY,
KIDNEY or BLADDER DI SEASE will write liim he will inform
them of the perfect home cure that did the work iu his case.
SUppins,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
‘ (LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIOE
PORT PlltlE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Allinga,
Friday, October 24.
S.S. Wollowra,
Saturday, October 25.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns
S.S. Rockton, Sat., Oct. 25,
S.S. Allinga, Friday, Oct. 31.
S.S.lnnamincka,Sat., Nov.l
S.S. Warrego, Sat., Nov. 8.
Jiest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. 3. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A- U. S. N. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THIS POPULAR PASSISNG IS It UNIS.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, MaokaJ,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL POJETS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Twice weekly, via Bris-
bane, Maryborough, and Bundaberg.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 8 Weeks, via Brls
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
ana Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
via MELBOURNE—Fortnightly.
Rasseni/er A ce.ommodation, A ttendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloo.n passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and VV. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, 1(1 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P. AND o.
COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOIt MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting- at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS forßrindisiX leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
* Leaving Wednesday at 5 p.m. instead of Saturday on
account'd the Melbourne races.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £77
Ditto Ditto Return, £OB to £ll5
Return Tickets'(First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific,
Messageries Maritimesand N.D.L. Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superi n ten dent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at SIELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows:
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Si re -t, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
aM—MM ritfM
“E. RHP R.” LiHE.
. . TO . .
mmih, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. Tns Commander. .Leave Sydney
EASTERN 3600 Winthrop Ellis ..'November If
AIRLIE |2500 St. John George.. December 6
AUSTRALIAN . 13000 P. T. Helms ..January £
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Through bookings to points in Canada, United States
of America and Europe at special rates.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
Lowest Fares and Freights.
For further information apply to
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
. .SMOKE. .
INSIST
on having this Brand
and no other.
Largest Depot:
231 CLAR€NC€ STR€€T,
SYD3XTEY.


Apropos the Employers’ Union claim for
liberty to sweat, and so on. Dr. Johnson once
(in “ Taxation no Tyranny ”): “ How is it we hear
the loudest yelps for liberty among the drivers of
negroes ? ”
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
From a well-known Anglo-Australian now
in London: —
Things are mighty bad here ; there is a slump in nearly
everything. The “ loyalty " slump is not far off. The
loyalty boom has been on for a long time and must go off
sooner or later. S’Africa caused it, and as sure as night
follows day, will also bring about the slump. The
£220,000,000 has been spent not in bagging Boers, but in
destroying a country—probably the total cost in money
and destroyed property verges on £400,000,000. The
country is desolated for hundreds of miles. Firesticks
have been put to thousands of farms, tens of thousands
of cattle have been killed for food, and a greater
number simply to get rid of them. The butcher,
Kitchener, having retired, things are left in the
hands of Milner, the baker, who will soon be
expected to supply the people with bread. I would
not be surprised to see some bread riots there before the
end of this year. The Kaffir is the best black miner in
the world, yet, with the cheapest labor in the world,
these big Rand mines only pay divs. by enormous pro-
ductions. The profits per ton are so slight that
they will not stand white labor unless it can be got
for ss. a day, and even at that they would be heavily
reduced. The training of Kaffirs to become miners,
which takes from two to three years, has been completely
stopped for that time. The nigger has made so much
money during the war that he does not care to work in
mines, where quite a number of him used to be killed every
week without the slightest fuss resulting. One of the
managers told me that he used to work 32 at one time in
a shaft 28 x 8, and would sink 200 ft. a month by hand
lain r ! You can imagine how many blasting accidents
would take place during a year. But it didn’t matter.
The Chartered Co., too, will cause trouble. Sooner or
later that concern must become bankrupt, unless the
British Govt, comes to its rescue—which it probably will
do. Surely, the people out there won’t like that, as it
will cost the country many millions. In some form or
other S’Africa will be called upon to pay for the war and
to redeem the loss of wasted millions by the
Chartered Co. As sure as the last war was for
the destruction of two small republics, the next fight
will be for the creation of a new and big one
I am enclosing some cuttings re the London and Globe.
If any further evidence was wanted of the indifference of
the British public this case supplies it. Ever since I have
been here this time every effort has been made by some
people to bring about a prosecution. Petitions to the
public prosecutor and Attorney-General, questions in the
House of Commons, letters and articles in newspapers,
and so far without result. Reason not far to seek—the
memory of the dead—Dufferin, Loch, and Robinson ;and
the so-called reputations of men not yet dead but who
ought to be han.ed. Many millions were wasted. It
went into the pockets of the Globe gang, and much of it
was employed in bribing newspapers to remain silent.
It was a gigantic steal, and big men as well as news-
papers assisted in the robbery. So many things have
leaked out that some men who were the victims are
determined to see the thing through, but if nothing is
done within the next few months the matter will pass
into oblivion. Meanwhile, Whittaker Wright, whose
wages-sheet for men working on his estate used to be
over £2 :00 a month, is considerably reduced. lam told
he now employs less than IPO men on his domestic affairs.
I am sure that Australia, which has to bear fully half the
blame of these Westralian robberies, and did not receive
one-twentieth of the plunder, would insist upon having
this matter cleared up by a jury or commission, and if
the Government refused, as it is doing here, it would be
fired out.
RAMEY’S MEDIC A TOR ~
For the Treatment of Catarrh, Hay Fever,
Bronchitis, Influenza, Catarrhal
Deafness, etc.
Medlcator, with complete treat-
ment, only 101-, post free.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY
229, 23! COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE. A
s>.
m
~4r
m
w. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES: Best Natural Curly
Hair, a/6, 5 6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long-,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Onlv one address : 110 YVILLIAM-
ST., cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
Cable trams will stop at door. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. VVies made on shortest notice. All
Hair work sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
S€ND US
YOUR PHOTOGRAPH.
JF you send a Photograph of yourself (or friend) to
Mr. Mark Blow, Crown Studios, Sydney,
he will reproduce from it a very beautiful and
Artistically Ftnishexl
Permanent Enlargement
In Black and White, equalling a rich Steel Plate
Engraving, handsomely mounted on an Indian-tinted
Plate, sunk mount, and as good in every way as Enlarge-
ments now being supplied at from 30/- "to 50/- each, and
will carefully pack it and send it Carriage Paid to any
address in Australia, Tasmania, or New Zealand for lO 6.
Your Photo. Returned with Order.
POPULAR SONGS
By
Eminent
Composers
“If I were Loved by Thee” .. Piccolo mini
“ Breaking the Ice ’* Pontet
“Parted but Unchanged ” .. J. Sewell Southgate
“Song of Love and Death ” Barnett
OF ALL MUSICSELLERS.
W. PAXTON & GO., London Melbourne
The Roman
Hair
Restorer
Produces Brown and Black Hair.
Price 1/6 ; by post, 2/3.
An inexpensive and
certain preparation for
renewing and restoring
'to its original color th°
hair of the head, beard
and whiskers.
Largely used by the Roman ladies for preserving their
magnificent tresses. Nourishes the roots and remove?
dandruff ; increases the quantity, and renders it glossy
and supple ; does not stain the skin nor soil the linen, if
your hair is falling off or turning grey, use this.
CAUTION. —This being different from most prepara-
tions, other kinds should be refused.
JAMES BRINSMEAO and CO., Chemists, ST. KILDA.
All Chemists sell it.
MAKE YOUR OWN
STER EOS C O PIC VIEWS,
NO. 2
Stereo
*****
Kodak.
.. Price £4:3 :6.
loaded and unloaded in daylight.
3END FOR ILLUSTRATED LEAFLET, and
mention this Paper.
KODAK Ltd.,
284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending' stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugrene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with tOO Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos.
ss. P.O.C. or stamps.
S. RECKNAGEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Germany.
USE mrnm.
SPOONER’S
u
SPOONER S
r« %
*
IHTENT LEATHER BOOTS
CU2EEA«OS«
'««’. n-ITJJ»/»«*%%*»•»
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning’ and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
v'v ■ ' ’ "•'..."5:; .r-p"'"
Begin as
Motorman
New electric roads are being built all the time,
requiring strong, intelligent, reliable
Young rien for Motormen.
You might get such a position if you were
fitted for it, and, once in, there’s a chance to
rise. Our Correspondence Course in Electrical
Engineering teaches you the whole thing. We
teach also Steam and Mechanical Engineering,
Mechanical Drawing, Plumbing, Heating, Ven-
tilating.
Write for information and Handbook “ B.”
American School of Correspondence, Boston,
l Mass. Sydney Address : Box 629, C.P.O. i
“ON OUR SELECTION,”
By STEELE RUDD.
M ELLIN’S
FOR INFANTS FOOD AND INVALIDS
Is adapted for use from birth.
Send for Pamphlet and Samples to GOLLIN & CO., Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide and Wellington.
TheCANZ
Electric Apparatus
are built right.
Let us give you some
evidence of their
superiority..
Canz Direct Current Air-Propeller. SOLE AGENTS :
The flustral Qtis Engineering (Jo., [td., South f|)elb.
IM.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company,
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent, more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cievela.nd-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
OUlt SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
»«*liYered at any W harf « r
V.S.W'. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
2h.p. to lOOh.p.
MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
Noiseless Underwater .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J. F.
Telephone 2671.
WITH THc KINU ENGINE— ONE LEVER CONTROLS'THE WHOLE.
M: C3DE R. JVE oT T & C o lyr Fa. 3XTY,
37 MARKET STREET, WVT>lvnff;~V.
IN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade — viz., the above handsome Brooch
(anyname or three initials) made of extra quality
9ct. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant ; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0, or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, 15ct
gold, filled, Bs. fid. Illustrated catalogues sent free.
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers ..
Our only address —
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG, X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
eompr sing Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried in vest
po -ket and blown out to life-size (causes roars of
laughter), Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket, Book of
Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin and Card
Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character), The Mafeking Grub (or
nerve-strengthener), and, last of all, that side-splitting
Look and Laugh Glass, Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-street, SYDNEY,
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head aches & all Nerve
Pains removed by BUN TER’S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I have
used it successfully for years.”—Prof, W. Wilson, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDELL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, Ac.
Of all Stores.
CANT YOU BREATHE
freely ? Have you to sit up in bed gasping for
breath? If so, you are only one of a countless
number whose lives are made a burden to them by
ASTHMA.
If you wish to rest again at night, and breathe
with head erect by day, send ss. to NEWHAM
WATERWORTH, Edward-st., Brisbane,
who will forward post free a sample bottle of a
New Remedy for Asthma, a few doses of which
will prove to-you that life is still worth living.
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY,
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS Of SELF
CURE, will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address: A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
*|HORR(SS
IMPERIAL
OINTMENT
CURES
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
RELTS and
A TELIA N CES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Eleotrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt l>y the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,'
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
CAPILLA
HAIR
TONIC
Tie Wonder of the Age
ALL CHEMISTS
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA.


The Secret of Flight,
Hundreds of clever men have been trying for
the last century to discover the secret of flight.
Many flying machines have been invented, but all
have failed to answer the purpose. Now, if there
is anything in what we are taught, these ambitious
inventors are trying to bring about what we will
all get to know in a few years—that is, if we are
good. Consequently we must acknowledge that
these flying machine men are in a hurry to know
just what.a few hundred million of people don’t
want to know very particularly for a few years at
least. None of us want to fly sooner than need
be, and it is to keep back the flying state as long
as possible that such letters as these become valu-
able: —“Itis with much pleasure that I am able
to send you a few lines in praise of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills,” writes Mr. A. Brown, New-
market, Vic. “For the last two months I have
been a sufferer from neuralgia. I think I tried
almost everything in the hope of finding relief,,
but failed. About two weeks ago one of your
books was left at my house, and on reading that
Indian Root Pills had cured many others of
neuralgia I decided to give them a trial. After
taking about half a bottle I was delighted to find
that all the pains had vanished. I can thorouglily
recommend them to all who suffer as I did. You
are at liberty to make this case public if you think
fit.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a perfect
blood purifier, and a positive cure for biliousness,
indigestion, constipation, headaches, sallow com-
plexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples,
boils and blotches, and for female ailments. Sole
proprietors, The W. H. Comstock Co., Limited.
(Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Packed in amber bottles and the full name blown
thereon.*
Merriman is the orator and Sauer the
debater of Cape politics. That impossible Jingo,
Dr. Smartt, leader of the Opposition, is known as
“Fluent Stupidity.”
Hardy’s Tintara Wines
Absolutely Pure;
A
Adelaide:
CURRIE STREET
Fully Matured;
Melbourne:
COLLINS STREEI
700 Medals, etc.
Sydney:
GROSVEIMOR STREET
RED
RED
RED
RED
RED
RED
RED
RED
RED
BEST
BICYCLE
BUILT
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King-st., Sydney.
Branches ?n eyery State,
BIRD
BIR~>
BIRD
BIRD
BIRD
BIRD
BIRD
BIRD
BIRD
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
If the totahsator is ever legalised in N.S.W. or
Vic. a limit should be fixed to the percentage deducted
by racing clubs. There’s no such limit in the Q. Act, and
when Govt, first imposed a totalisator-tax of 21 per cent
the clubs calmly added it on to their 10 per cent, and
made the investor pay! This year the Philp-Leahv
Ministry, in its efforts to stop the hole in the State
pocket, increased the tax to 5 per cent., and race clubs
now take 13J per cent, from the total amount invested in
the machine. With the fractions added this means that
the deduction from one day’s investments frequently
averages as high as 17 per cent, (no fractions of a shilling
are paid in Kanaka-land, except where ss. tickets are
issued), but the clubs grab this extra imposition. Result,
appreciable decrease in tote investments and corre-
sponding increase in bookmakers’ profits. The small
investor growled at the 12£ per cent., but the additional
lilPer cent, has made him rebel outright, besides making
it harder for him to figure-out what his dividend will be
* * * *
Surely the wary “Tatt.” must have some
cunning emissaries masquerading in the ranks of the
cranks who would mind everybody’s business but their
own. Hardly a week passes but a letter appears in the
columns of the “ religious ” weeklies, drawing attention
to the easiest and promptest method of sending to Hobart
for tickets. Even the usually astute Pastor Fitchett
printed, as a footnote to his correspondents’ wails (?), a
long yarn embodying the essentials of “Tatt’s” circulars
just the thing the consultation-promoter wants.
* * * *
Winner of Caulfield Cup, Lieutenant Bill, was
named after his owner’s brother, then an Australian
officer in S Africa. Though heavily backed months ago,
when weights saw light, his subsequent public and track
doings were not encouraging in the slightest degree, and
he dropped completely out of reckoning with punters
generally; Lieutenant Bill was bred at Warbreccan
(Deniliquin) by Mr. O. C. McCulloch, who still owns him.
The nag is a 4yr.-old gelding by Pilgrim’s Progress from
Kingarooma, by Tubal Cain, from Lurline, from Traducer.
At 2yrs. he figured in the Riverina district, but did no
S°°d- Af ter frequent unfruitful starts in and around
Melbourne last season, Lieutenant Bill won Aspendale
Park Trial Handicap in April, and next Eclipse Stakes at
Oorowa and then Flemington Highweight Handicap (in
July) fell to him—three successive wins. Lieutenant Bill
is in Melbourne Cup with 8.2, including 101 b. penalty.
Caulfield Cup morsels: Said that when weights
first appeared, owner of Lieutenant Bill secured £5OOO to
£lO his nag and Strata Florida, which is now capital
hedging money. At card-reading, night before race,
hundreds to 2 and 21 went begging. Extent of owner’s
betting on the course was acceptance of £5OO to d&l2 10s.
People who won money were those who took it early and
were compelled to hold it. Lieut. Bill came on very fast,
as he only finished seventh in Toorak and Ooongy Handi-
caps, ran at same meeting. Mo, generally, has made a
big haul. First, third, and fourth in the race were Pil-
grim’s Progress gets. Time (2.36) for the race equals
Gnaroos (’9l) and Hymettus’ (’9B), and is only Jsee.
slower than the record put up by Hymettus last year.
Stakes won at the meeting totalled £9200. Lieutenant
Bill 8 owner got the biggest portion (£2500), and Mr. E.
Fraser (owner of Debutant Stakes winner) followed with
£lOOO. Then came Messrs. W. T. Jones, £650- C L
M’Donald, £590; F. M'Grath, £6OO ; Rupert Clarke, £370.
• * • •
The “startling reversal of form” necessary to
the victory of any outsider in Caulfield Cup was not
generally expected from Lieutenant Bill. A while ago
when the C.O. betting was young and struggling, the
Lieut figured for a few days as a nominal first favorite.
Then he began to get beaten for minor handicaps under
conditions which seemed to put him out of reasonable
reckoning for the big race. For instance, Oct. 4, he
finished simply “nowhere” behind Combat, Abington,
Progredior, and Vanity Fair in the Stand Handicap (lj
mile) at Flemington. Oct. 11 he finished sixth, behind
Kinglock, Air Motor, and Ibex, in the Toorak Handicap
(1 mile). And on 15th, only three days previous to Caul-
field Cup, the sorely-defeated animal finished in the rear
of Vanity Fair, Free States, Progredior, and The Idler for
the Ooongy Handicap (1 mile 3 fur.). Lieut. Bill’s
“reversal of form” was startling, seeing that Vanity
Fair and Progredior, sticking close together for the third
successive time, were placed third and fourth in Caulfield
Cup.
Flagship improved considerably on his last
year’s running. Then he finished a moderate third to
Hymettus and Wakeful. This year, he carried 221 b. more
weight, and got within a length of the winner, but, as he
will meet the Lieutenant on only 41b. better terms in the
Melbourne Cup, the penalised four-year-old looks to have
nothing the worst of the weights with him. And the
probability of one or two of the Derby colts beating all
the Caulfield Cup form over the Flemington two miles is
now stronger than ever.
Ikey Mo and the tipsters were quite of one
mind about the Caulfield Cup chances. With the one
exception of Flagship—the “ tip” of fully a dozen jockeys
riding in the race—lkey was disposed to lay more
liberally than usual against every horse that had been
badly beaten in recent handicaps. The “ books ” on the
course reduced the odds against the favorites, and en-
larged their offers against the outsiders as the time drew
near. Anyone could get 50 to 1 against Lieut. Bill by
diligently seeking it.
Now that a well-advertised “dream” horse has
won Caulfield Cup we shall have Isaac de Moses inventing
further vision stories for the beguilement of superstitious
punters. The objection to bogus “ dreams ” lies in the
fact that their well-informed authors invariably select an
animal which—in their opinion—can’t possibly win,
whereas the bona-fide pork-supper dream horse has, at least,
a fair chance. For the benefit of dream-backers, The
Bulletin may mention that artist Alf. Vincent, who
wears rather long hair and is tinged with ruminative
melancholy, has dreamed that Melb. Cup winner will be
No. 9on the card. Two years ago Mr. Vincent dreamed
Ingliston for the Caulfield Cup, so he is not a visioner to
be utterly despised. In any state of indigestion he is
addicted to seeing things, but his crayfish results are the
most reliable. It was a nocturnal diet of crayfish that
led to the appearance of No. 9 upon the phantom black-
board. Back No. 9at the post, and you will probably
wish you hadn’t. Punters are mostly born to wish they
hadn’t.
* • * *
Previous to the scratching of Seclusion for
Caulfield Cup it was known that Homeward Bound had
been beating the mare easily in their work. Seclusion
won four races in August, beating comparatively unripe
animals, and when they began to “ come on ” she began
to “go off." Winning form in August is always a doubt-
ful recommendation for a Cup favorite.
* t, ■ » ' * *
Wakeful’s victory in the Eclipse Stakes, at Caul-
field, only served to show that nothing, save Footbolt,
was trying seriously to beat the mare. In the first place,
the betting told the tale, for Footbolt, with the worst of
the weights, was backed at 6 to 1 to beat Wakeful, where-
as the others went out practically friendless. The race
was run in strict accordance with the betting. Footbolt
seemed to be ridden out .to finish third, a head behind
Air Motor, time 2,26. The next event, the Ooongy Handi-
cap, was run over the same course in 21sec. faster time.
* * » *
The backing of Loyal for Caulfield Guineas, on
the strength of mysterious “information,” was an in-
teresting study .in punters’ credulity. The colt had no
apparent pretensions to beat Strata Florida and Great
Scot, yet he carried more money, in small investments,
than either of the pair that held him, safe on paper. In
the race he performed like a non-stayer, and was subse-
quently scratched for Caulfield Cup and the Derby. The
whisper that brought so much Loyal money into the bag
of Ikey Mo was probably put into circulation by the same
people who boomed the mediocre Bon Voyage for last
Epsom. There are still some people disposed to believe
that Bon Voyage must be a first-rater because he beat
Seclusion and Strata Florida in August and was backed
at a short price for the Epsom, but the stable was never
sweet on the five-year-old gelding.
At moment of writing Strata Florida has sup-
Slanted Abundance as favorite for V.E.O. Derby, and his
telb. Cup prospects also seem rosy. When this colt
fetched 1300 gs. as a yearling, his breeder, Mr. John Mayo,
was astonished, as he’d have gladly accepted a fourth of
that sum. Pedigree of Strata Florida’s great grand-dam,
Maid of the Lake, on the maternal side, has been lost.
She was bred by Capt. Russell, of Ravensworth, N.S.W.
• • * •
Kiota, brother to Daimio, gave a suggestion of
his quality by taking the Steeplechase at Caulfield last
Saturday, and if the handsome fellow goes on all right
for the next fortnight, he will be worth backing in both
the steeplechases at Melb. Cup meeting. Scobie has had
a lot of trouble with Kiota, and the horse is not yet
“ wound up.” Weight doesn’t stop 'chasers of his class
when they feel like winning.
* * • *
Mona Nursery, at V.R.C. meet last week, added
one more to the thick crop of turf surprises. In a field of
18 Lady Lettice wasn’t fancied at all, while runner up
(Velox) in previously decided rich Debutant Stakes, went
out a hot first choice. Several others were weightily in-
vested upon, but Lady Lettice beat them all comfortably.
Winner is by Beauchamp from the Drummer mare, Lady
Love, and owned by Mr. W. A. Gardiner, Gobolion,
N.S.W. She was bred at Windsor, and brought 165 gs. at
Sydney yearling sales.
• * • *
The Victory — presuming that his kidneys, or
whatever was the matter with him, give no trouble
before the day—should make a good bid for Melb. Cup.
The 4-year-old is so muscular that the recent stoppage in
his work will do him no harm. Of all the “beaten”
horses in the Eclipse Stakes, this nuggetty invalid showed
to most advantage when running alongside of Wakeful.
The Victory should win something at the V.R.C. meeting.
Present scribe would not be surprised to see him beat
Wakeful for the Melbourne Stakes on Derby Day.
• • * •
Lieutenant Bill, winner of Caulfield Cup, paid
£23 Us. on a Sydney tote—over 94 to 1.
• * » •
The luck of it. Trainer of Lieutenant Bill
wanted him struck out of Caulfield Cup and run in
Moora Welter, but owner wouldn’t have it.
* * • *
Profits of Caulfield Cup meet ended Saturday
were materially less than in past years—£7oo this time as
against £2055 in '9l and £2700 in ’9O. Shortage is
accounted for to some extent by the fact that stakes this
year were £7OO bigger ; and more liberal terms conceded
owners in Debutant Stakes, and other events, meant
that the V.A.T.C. handled £3OO less revenue from those
sources than previously. Cup-day takings showed a
falling off of £2OO.
• • • •
Brisbane can boast a rival to Barney Allen in
the wholesale horse-owning line. The northern man
works on original methods, and apparently makes them
pay. He will buy anything from a yearling to an aged
horse in training on the recommendation, possibly, of
some reputed judge. Then his purchases are leased to
small owners or trainers who have to pay all expenses
and “part” a share of the prize-money won. Result :
If the nag wins races the lessor pockets his share of the
stakes, and can get a profit on his original outlay when
he wants to sell; failures (very few, so far) are turned out
or got rid of at any price. At one time this turf magnate
owned nearly 100 horses, all being trained in Brisbane,
and it often happened that he owned all the starters in
one event. This, of course, had to stop ; and now the
wholesale owner has a private trainer, a big stable, and a
long list of wins.
* * * •
A’ tote continues to flourish in Melbourne,
under the nose of P.M.G. Drake, although that moral
autocrat has put Tatt’s sweep beyond the pale of postal
service. Since the so-called suppression of Tattersall
there has been a steady increase in this illicit business,
and the police, no doubt, are getting bigger bribes than
ever out of it. The owner, nowadays, “ runs ” one of the
bookmakers on salary and commission. Last year he con-
trolled the result of the Austral Wheel Race. The pro-
prietor of this tote is a power *in the sporting
world, and from a man of mystery he has developed into
a well-known personage. One may see him at a Mel-
bourne restaurant, perchance, talking business over a
bottle of wine with his agent-bookmaker and a well-
known detective or two —a nice little family gathering !
Chief Secretary Jack Murray, who formerly battled
without avail for the legalisation of the tote on Victorian
racecourses, now enjoys the satisfaction of presiding over
the Police Department, which winks its other eye.
* • • •
The flying Maoriland youngster Achilles
(N.S.W. bred), whose hoof had been causing trouble, was
sent for classic Wanganui Guineas, after a spell of indif-
ferent training, and won in a canter in the hot time of
1.42 2-sths. His hoof had been clamped for the occasion.
* • * *
Mr. Gr. M'Leod, of Burrygaa station, was badly
savaged the other day by the steeplechasifig stallion
Mikado 11. Mr. M‘Leod was passing the horse’s box
when Mikado, theretofore regarded as a good-humored
animal, grabbed him by the arm, lifted him off the
ground, carried him round the loose-box, and then threw
him out of the stable again. Amputation of the arm may
yet be necessary.
* • * »
“ Gun ”: Inexcusably late withdrawal of Seclu-
sion proved a staggerer for punters. Mo. beamed ; it gave
him a firm foundation to work on as the mare had been
top of the market or thereabout with coin coming for her
in piles, for weeks. Stable never had a cent on. Eleventh
hour elimination of “Oxy’s" Acrasia was another
sharp poke in eye for punters, the Sydney section par-
ticularly ; she did big things before leaving Randwick, and
had for additional endorsement that meritorious show in
Air Motor’s Epsom. Appears the stable proposed coming
with its dose at card-reading night before the race, but the
“ commissioner ” found that though the nag was quoted
at hundreds to four and five the betting was blocked,
Ikey absolutely refused to lay beyond a very narrow limit.
A wire to Sydney late at night conveyed this information
and Acrasia went out at 10 next morning. Said that her
trainer, in blissful ignorance of what had been done, sent
a wire to headquarters on the day of the race tipping
Acrasia or Kilt as sure.
* • • *
Second round of Sydney first-grade cricket
opened Saturday, with conditions favoring batsmen
Waverley, opposed to Glebe, topped the day’s run-
accumulations with nine for 340, towards which Mackenzie
and Ebsworth subscribed centuries. The fact recalls that
in same club’s previous match, same two men stretched
out ahead of all others—former just missing his 100 by
two, latter making 80. Ebsworth smote with a mighty
smite, and gathered eight s*s and twelve 4’s, and per-
formed that rare feat, 5 for a snick in the slips. Mac-
kenzie’s total was hit up in 20min. over the hour, and
included two 6’s and 14 4’s. Last season’s premiers
(Sydney) engaged Redfern, and compiled only 172 on a
good ground—s 2 of these were opposite Cuffe’s name.
This was the smallest total of the day. At stumps-draw
Redfern had two down for 43, and, with 130 to win, the
fight looks like proving tough. North Sydney made 251
against Central Cumberland, to which veteran F. Wade
brought 68 not out. O.C. have 11, with no wickets down.
Leichhardt-Balmain held the pitch from ’Varsity all the
afternoon, having nine out for 324 at the end. Ashdown
(104) and Diamond (85) knocked the venom out of the
bowling. The Burwood-Paddington match saw former
make 223, and latter 8 without loss. Garnsey hit up 78
and old-hand G. P. Barbour 40, of Burwood’s lot. ’
* * * *
M.L. Rugby Union is taking steps to send a
team of 25 ’Ome, next year, despite the advice from Eng-
lish authorities that the rule re professionalism would not
”®. r ®!^ ed - A n ea sy way will, no doubt, be found out of
this little difficulty by seeing that the trippers get a sub-
stantial whack of the profits—more than they would make
at ordinary work. It is intended to play two matches a
week during a three-months’ stay.
* ♦ * *
“ Down Sydney harbor a few weeks back, at
a Sunday-school picnic, some rascal had given a ss. prize
for a boys novelty race, the conditions of which were
that each boy was to stop in the middle of the race, eat
three buns provided by the committee, and then con-
tinue his run, fastest eater and runner to win. A parson
was in charge of the event. Eight boys started, and the
way those youngsters “ scoffed ’’ 24 tough buns made me
ill, though the parson laughed heartily. I asked an
intelligent policeman if he was not empowered to summon
that preacher for cruelty, but he was sorry to say he
could not. I have an idea that the prize was given by a
“ specks-before-the-eyes ” specialist. Twenty-four buns
eaten in hot haste leads to custom later on.
• * * *
The championship (eights) at N.S.W. Rowing
Association regatta was won easily by the Mercantile
crew, Glebe a bad second. Mr. Upward, the Melb.
expert, who came over especially to judge the rowing
exhibition at the ’Varsity regatta a fortnight ago,
adjudged these two crews as the best on the river, but
he placed Glebe first.
• * * *
Much-sought Sydney pony jock. W. Evans had
five winning mounts and one second in a six-event pro-
gramme at last Rosebery Park meet.
The Bulletin’s London correspondent: The
Grafter’s racing career is ended. He has been sold to a
lady, so the erstwhile Melbourne Cup winner may now
be seen gently cantering in Rotten Row, and trying to
forget the “ cheers that rang in his ears ” in a far-off land.
• • • ■
" The big race-meetings next summer promised
so profusely by N.S.W. League of Wheelmen threaten to
fall far short of the programme set out. Plugger Bill
Martin, just returned from the U.S., says definitely that
the champion sprinter, “ Major ” Taylor, on whom the
league depended so greatly in the matter of its £lOOO
handicap, will not visit Australia while those willing to
come over are mere names to the local public.
* * * »
At a committee meeting of Gore (M.L.) Racing
Club, a letter was received from a “ tonsorial artist,”
resigning his membership of the club on account of his
name appearing in the list of members in the annual
report (this he considered detrimental to his business,
mostly done with severely pious Scotehbyterians), and be-
cause'he didn’t receive adequate support in his business
from members of the club. Resolved unanimously : “ That
the resignation be accepted with thanks, and that he be
appointed honorary barber to the club.” Four very bald-
headed members of the committee were deputed to convey
the resolution, and at the same time get their hair cut.
* * • •
“ Jab ” : M‘Call-Doherty heavy pug-supremacy
struggle, at Sydney National S.C., last week, is now
referred to in many places as having been cronk, but ’twas
not so ; only thing crooked about it was that Doherty, im-
pressed by allegedly shrewd judges, thought he could easily
beat the N.S.W. champ., and, consequently, didn’t train
more than two weeks. When the job proved more severe
than anticipated (M‘Oall is awkward, hard, strong and
armor-plated), Doherty had no reserve-power to fall back
upon. Best line in such things is the money. Though
big lumps of M'Oall coin were offered, there was compara-
tively none for Doherty, which is explained by the fact
that last-named is little known in Sydney, and also that
his careless preparation was noticed. Further, though
heaps of offers to take s’s to 4 or 10’s to 8 were made,
M'Oall people wouldn’t spring the slightest shade, but
said, in effect, “ Even money or nothing at all.” Had
the thing been “ fixed,” those “ in the know ” would cer-
tainly have laid odds on sooner than miss making a big
scoop,
• • • •
Lightweight bruisers Harry Punch and
“Monty” Andrews thumped each other harder and
more often, at Gaiety A. 0 (Sydney), last week, than
most ordinary pugs thump in half-a-dozen fights. Ribs
and stomach received most treatment from both. The
densely massed “ gods ” swayed and roared with excite-
ment. Referee Tom Taylor lost his head completely.
Directly the men bore into each other, clinch or no
clinch, he’d obtrude his huge sweltering body between
and force them asunder, thus preventing in-fighting.
The house vehemently hissed, hooted and shrieked its
condemnation, but Taylor still offended and butted them
apart with sheer weight of beef, and consequently almost
shut Punch out from what he was best at. The
scrap was full of sting and force till the 9th round,
and then it fell off, Punch growing weak through
having to scale below himself—9.l2. Ultimately Punch
lost on a foul and thus saved his side bet, which,
articles provided, should be paid over on a knock-
out only, and the purpose was achieved in the 14th
round, when Punch secured disqualification. Andrews
got the verdict, but the £5O side bet went back into each
fighter’s pocket. Insistence upon a knock-out (and that
only) deciding the destination of stake money is a
frequent provision in fight articles nowadays, born of the
fact that boxers generally have little faith in latter-day
referees,' who mostly know nothing, or less, of the game.
* » • •
N.S.W. amateur boxing championships induced
44 poddy pugs’ entrants, but some failed to materialise,
through scare and other things, and excess of weight
barred a few more. Competitions extended from Wednes-
day till Saturday inclusive, drawing big crowds to the
newly-opened National Sporting Club, Sydney, each
night. Opening lot of battles were so vimful and
enthusiastic that six successive forfeits occurred in
the next batch. Displays were a big improvement on
last year’s. Every man who shaped had himself fully
attuned. Weyland, previous holder of the middle supre-
macy, won it again, as well as the heavy-weight cham-
pionship. His toughest opponent in former—inches
shorter and pounds lighter—was 0. Graham, who
brought such an uncommon stock of grit into the
ring, with remarkable capacity for punishment, that
the promoting N.S.W. Sports Club gave him a
special memento. Australian Artilleryman H. M'Kellar,
a stone weightier, looked over Weyland in the final of
the heavies (contested same night as concluding bout of
middles), and roughed and punched hard from “ go,” but
Weyland, cleverer and cool always, scored most, though
in dire trouble often, and he got the well-earned prize.
Former bantam champion, H. Clifton, scored again. D.
Parbury gathered in the feather laurels, and speedy,
well-built swimmer “Snowy” Baker appropriated the
lightweight title, showing exceptional fighting power,
skill, and condition for an amateur. Gory noses, eyes in
mourning, and swells and scrapes generally, peculiar to
the game fistic, were much in evidence, but no one whim-
pered or winced. Summed up, the contests were a big
success, and proved a decided acquisition to the State’s
forefront athletic doings.
* * » *
Recent 9st. novice pug. tourney winners,
(“Jack” King and “Artie” M'Kell, scrapped vigorously at
Sydney Golden Gate A.C., Saturday night. Each had
superb condition, brought good punching power to bear
(King had a tightly closed eye after the fourth round),
and fortune varied frequently. Once M'Kell looked the
better, then King appeared to have the advantage, and,
later, it was “ up and up,” with the crowd marvelling at
the vigor of the struggle and the stamina of the fighters.
After the 10th round M'Kell gradually gained ascendancy,
and King was so completely cracked that when the
15th round opened referee “Don” M'Donald stopped the
fight and gave M'Kell the splosh.
* • « •
Melbourne lightweight, Palmer, at Sydney
Gaiety A.C., Monday night, tackled N.S.W. crack,
“ Rollo,” lately walloped by Jack McGowan, and the two
made things very hot from “ Time 1 ” Rollo jerked and
dodged his head as if it were worked by wires. Two
shaking-up lefts set him guessing in the third round, and
he sat down very much disgusted. Both hit in holds
■frequently, and the referee allowed it. This game suited
Palmer to the ground—it’s the Melbourne method of
fighting, and the best and most exciting. Rollo respon.
ded grittily, and scored occasionally, but the greater
force was on the other side, wherefore Palmer won at the
close of the fourth round. Hollo’s “corner” skied the
wipe. “Ooeker” Tweedie, recuperated by a long spell
up-country, will meet Palmer next, and probably surprise
those who think him dead to the game.
* * * *
Plugger Bilmartin and F. S. Beauchamp, after
touring the globe, came back by Yankee mail-boat
Ventura this week, with their tails' right down, having
accomplished nothing like what was expected of them.
Small and steep ’Murkan tracks broke Martin up—in two
months he sprawled 11 times. Combined successes of the
pair brought in £3OO, ’tis said, but this scribe wouldn’t
like to give that for what they really closed on. Martin
says world’s premier ’Murkan negro “ Major ” Taylor’s
talked-of visit is improbable, but cycling authorities aver
that the additional inducement will certainly bring the
speedy black. Victorian rider, W. Palmer, returned same
time as Martin and his chum ; he scored frequently round
about Salt Lake City in fast company.
• * • •
S.A. League of Wheelmen’s Spring meet
ended Saturday, and produced a surplus verging
on £2OO. Don Walker annexed 10 miles supremacy of
the continent brilliantly, also the final of one-mile Coro-
nation Handicap. Pacing up to eight miles in the big
thing was only moderately good, but matters fairly boiled
near the end. Twenty yards from stop Morgan flashed
out brilliantly to beat Walker, and thousands roared ex-
citedly. Morgan flew on, the tension became painful.
Walker streaked on ahead, but the fast-coming Morgan
drew nearer and nearer till the home-mark saw Walker
win by only six inches. Pilsell was only a length away
third, and Pye, pressing hard, fourth. Watch showed
24.42. F. R. Burden secured first motor-bike race ever
decided in Australia, covering five miles in 9min. 15sec.
« « • •
N.S.W. bowling team of 16, picked from about
30 odd available, doesn’t wear a promising look. Com-
paratively few of the front-rank players sent in their
names, and choice was limited. Five of the combination
will visit Melbourne for the first time. This year’s
matches are to be played after Cup week—Nov. 11, 12
and 13—so that play may not suffer through other
influences. Victorian side doesn’t read over strong either,
but it needn’t be to have a good chance of winning. _
* * * V ft
Swimmer Holbein, who kept to the water for
22J hours in his latest splendid failure to cross the
Channel, is a man of 41. He seems to have missed the
distinction of rivalling Capt. Webb’s feat through the
pigheadedness of his advisers ; but even the route he had
chosen might not have been impossible to Holbein six or
seven years ago. He gave the best time of his athletic
life to long-distance cycling. Broke his leg while trying
to break another record, and took to swimming to cure a
stiff knee. Holbein’s water career didn’t begin until he
had passed the age of 35, after which the strongest man
begins to decline in vital power. Webb was only 32 or so
—a lusty young bachelor—when he crossed the Channel.
He was a married man of about 37 when he threw away
his life in trying to swim Niagara rapids, and ere he
left London on his fatal errand his brother begged him
to consider that he was no longer quite as good as he
had been.
* * * *
The Bulletin’s London correspondent : Obit.,
“Freddie” Ball, one time crack player with the “same
old Essendon ” Football Club. After a protracted drink-
ing bout here he stabbed himself in the throat and
abdomen with his penknife. Was found in bed bleeding
to death, and on removal to hospital sank from loss of
blood. His mother is a partner in a well-known Vic.
drapery house. A cruel ending for a fine, powerful
athlete.
* * » *
Some of the things Sandow said to Sydney
medicoes and pressmen t’other afternoon :—“I now weigh
10st., and exercis > by contracting the muscles. Ido it
unconsciously, and that is sufficient to keep me in perfect
condition. Four years ago I, for two years, did not have
any exercise at all, and yet I did not decrease in strength
or measurement. My muscles would not get soft even if
I ceased my performances, nor would I get heavier. The
secret of this is that I, by contracting my muscles, exer-
cise them. A cold bath should not be taken immediately
after running or rowing or any other violent exercises.”
No athlete needs telling what pure, unadulterated r it all
this is. Unconscious contracting of the muscles keeping
their owner in thorough condition is the height of
absurdity. Surely Sandow doesn’t think he is in thorough
condition—he panted while he talked, he swelters freely
nightly, and has flesh soft as a child’s. Let any ordinary
man refrain from exercise for one year, and see how his
muscle will fall away and (if he is healthy) the extra
amount of weight he’ll gather. Ask the rower, the
runner or the boxer about that cold bath business. He
finishes up with a big spurt specially for the bath, jumps
under the shower with the body steaming, and thrives on
it. Ex-athletes, who haven’t lost all energy, work up a big
sweat before they have a cold bath and won’t take it
without.


ICE! ICE I ICE!
The hot, stifling Summer days are approaching.
Have a Refrigerator, and keep Ice. It is a solid comfort, and doesn t cost much.
Our Ice is manufactured from Distilled Water. ABSOLUTELY PURE; CLEAR and
as HARD AS CRYSTAL. , ,
We despatch it freight paid to ANY RAILWAY STATION IN THE STATE, packed
in specially constructed cases. Waste during transit is very slight. Write for a quotation,
and full catalogue of our products.
Deliveries regular by special carts in Sydney and Suburbs.
THE IM.S.W, FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., Ltd., SYDNEY.
BREEDING
Open on
Saturday
Afternoons.
is admitted by all to be a very important subject. It certainly receives a very
large amount of attention. You cannot mistake the brand of .... .
flassey=Harris Cycles.
They have that aristocratic air about them that stands out and speaks of their
splendid history. They are bred on Brains and built on Honor. For speed
MASSEYS are easily first.
Call and see our New Models,
THE CANADA CYCLE & HOTOR CO., Ltd.,
Branches in Every State. 357 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
BUY A
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel .
Hammerless Gun
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept n stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington A.rms Company
Hkad Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 ios. to £l5
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free
McLEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
Irvine’s strong Government met with its
first bump on the very first day on which members
assembled. The “strong” Ministerial party dis-
appeared from the House, as soon as members had
been sworn-in, to arrange in caucus for the election
of a Chairman of Committees. Within five
minutes, the caucus was in an uproar. Irvine pre-
sided, and, in his arctic way, tried to keep things
straight. He was powerless, and for an hour his
“strong ” supporters fought each other and called
each other “ strong ” names. Shiels took a hand,
and several “out-and-out” Govt, supporters left
the room in utter disgust. The trouble was that,
having a “strong” majority, many of the party
wished to elect a chairman from their side of the
House on the principle of spoils to the victors. It
was contended by a few fair-minded men that the
principle wasjbad, and that Labor-member Beazley,
who has for two Parliaments done excellent work
in the chair, should be again elected to the posi-
tion. The caucus was a fiasco, and, when it was
over, Iceberg Irvine’s stoutest friends admitted
that he had shown no capacity to lead even a
caucus meeting.
The Veterinarian.
THE DIFFERENT PREPARATIONS OF
“SALVITIS’
FOR HORSES, CATTLE, SHEEP,
PICS, &c. ARE WORTH TRYING!
SALVITIS Index of Diseases, Free.
Remedies suggested in this Column promptly supplied
by Wholesale Agents for N.S.W.—
E. RICH & COMPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
“SALVITIS
II Ensures abundance
of EGGS and
Healthy Poultry.
USED BY LEADING BREEDERS— I/-, 5/-, 10/-, 20/-
SAL VITIS ROUP PILLS, 1/6 per box .
Wholesale Agents for N.S.W.—
E. RICH & COMPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
Victoria Racing Club
Cup Week.
DERBY DAY ... NOV. 1.
CUP DAY NOV. 4.
OAKS DAY ... NOV. 6.
STEEPLECHASE DAY ... NOV. 8.
LARGE ENTRIES
ACCOMMODATION FOR THOUSANDS.
HOLIDAY EXCURSION FARES
H; BYRON MOORE, Secretary.
Missing Friends.
TJDWARD EGAN, son of James and Sarah
Egan (nee McVay), once settled in Volet
Town, and Kyneton, Vic., please communicate
with J. T. FIDLER GOORA.M, Gong, Victoria.
Money awaiting you.
TJ'OR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
-L ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “ Ellis’ King 1 Street Coffee Palace,”
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. W. ELLIS.
SOAPS dubbed Shaving
are rarely
Shaving Soaps.
In a Class by Themselves
The World’s Standard Shaving Soaps
Williams’ Barber’s Bar
and
Williams’ Shaving Stick
“BARBER’S BAR”
While the natural Ally
Of the Deft Artist
And his Trusty Blade
Is also the Ideal Soap
For Home Use
Fits your Birthday Mug
Once tried, never changed
“Won’t Dry on the Face.”
Send a Penny Stamp and we will post you Williams’
Changing Face Puzzle. Can you explain it ?
J. B. WILLIAMS CO., Glastonbury, Conn., U.S.A.;
and at 232 Olarenee-st., Sydney.
SHARPSHOOTINg
For Sport and War.
By W. W. CREENER.
HITS THE MARK I
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett. ;
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W. W. CREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative).
At a recent public meeting in Melbourne,
Miss Vida Goldstein, of woman-suffrage celebrity,
stated that, as a result of her trip to America,
where she had seen some of the evils of a mixed
population, she had become an uncompromising
opponent of the admission of aliens into Aus-
tralia.
Piles and their Core.— The pamphlet by
Albert Sharp, “Piles and How to Cure Them,”
without operation, by the latest Cannalin treat-
ment, sent free on application to 257 George-st.,
Sydney, or F. Buckhurst, Chemist, Melbourne,
or W. Wasted, Chemist, Adelaide.*
TME NEW
VULCANISED'
DUN LPP
TYRE
This Tyre
Is vulcanised by our patent process under
a hydraulic pressure of 1200 lbs. to the
square inch, rendering parting of rubber
and fabric an impossibility—thus saving
fully 50 per cent, of the ordinary tyre troubles.
ASK YOUR. AGENT
to show you a sample,
IT WILL. DO THE REST.
None Genuine unless the Cover is
embossed with the word “ Vulcanised”
and this tw
TRADE
mark.
IS
•fm"
o v
***
linn
m
m
<
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYKE CO. OP AUS., LTD.
ISO CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY)
And at Melbourne, Perth, Brisbane and Christchurch.
A Loan.
At a meeting of the council of the Vic. Chamber of Com-
merce, Mr. W. Knox made reference to ill-advised letters
from Australians appearing in the London press bewailing
the drought and bad condition of affairs generally in Aus-
tralia. He was of opinion that these letters had done
great injury to the prospects of future State loans which
might be placed on the London market. — Daily paper
(N.S.W.).
Lay down your pick and shovel,
Throw by your spade and pen,
Good-bye to graft and grovel—
Good morning, Gentlemen !
Our game shall be to borrow,
And owe and pay our way,
God bless the good to-morrow,
And never mind to-day.
Is there a man so rude as (_■■
To say that we are poor ?
Hang up the crawling Judas
And make that question sure.
All through the Never-Never
The streams run full and deep.
The waters flowing ever
Are thirsting for the sheep.
It was a white, weird battle:
Between the rain and rain
Ten thousand head of cattle
Were bleaching on the plain.
But all the whole land over
The grass grew green and sweet,
The cattle rolled in clover —
The cattle would not eat.
Who dares to put in print that
The things we say are lies ?
Who dares to merely hint that
This is not Paradise ?
Work ? Work? O leave or lump it,
Each man upon his own— i
But hear the golden trumpet:
“ A Loan ! A Loan! A Loan ! ”
Lay down your pick and shovel,
Throw by your spade and pen;
Good-bye to graft and grovel,
Good-morrow, gentlemen !
CREEVE ROE.
For straight - out misrepresentation, »
recent attempt of Maoriland Works Minister
Hall-Jones to prove that his State isn’t extrava-
gant in its expenditure of loan money for railway
purposes should take the cake. The hyphenated
Jones publishes a table, at the head of which is
Natal, with a total expenditure of £143 per
inhabitant on railways, and down near the tail
Maoriland with about £22. Jones gets at this by
putting down the population of Natal at 59,000
instead of over 900,000, which, as a handy way of
manufacturing a case, beats the Dry Dog hollow.
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by-
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. (id.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
Great Britain’s hysterical and uninfonned solici-
tude for the poor, dear black S’African native
who was maltreated by the “brutal Boer” has
given place to a regret that Tommy Atkins has
been encouraged to “ treat the natives with a
coarse familiarity which has engendered a lament-
able insolence towards other white people, already
manifesting itself a real danger. He has become
inflated with a sense of his own importance. . . .
A savage with a swollen head is not far removed
from a dangerous lunatic, and the war has to
answer for many thousands of these. ” There is
much humor in the tacit admission that the Boer
who walloped his own nig. when the walloping
seemed necessary was a wise tactician rather than
an inhuman brute. And there is sadness in the
thought that the docile nigger has been converted
into a dangerous lunatic by bad British manage-
ment. However, the evil is pretty sure to pass
away. Truculent black natives don’t usually give
much trouble under the British flag.
* GIRAROL ” returns to the charge :
Re your foot-note to my letter (B. 19/4/’O2) “ what’s
wrong in running the country for the Papuan ? ” Nothing.
The diggers are more humane to the niggers than either
the Government or the missionaries, and they don’t
object to the Government protecting the Papuans or the
missionaries ; but they do object to be taxed when the}'
get no protection or assistance themselves. The natives
are more civilised in the interior of the country, where
they never see the missionaries or anybody but the dig-
gers and their carriers, than around the mission stations
along the coast. It is safe, now to travel through the
following four tribes (over 60 miles of country, between
Elliott’s Creek and McLoughlins)—Googara, Ninevah,
Simora, and Beda ; and the diggers never fired a shot at
one of them, nor did they round-up the good-looking gins
to sing hymns, or interfere with the natives otherwise
than by bartering knives, tomahawks, calico, beads, etc.,
for sweet-potatoes, taro, and bananas. When there were
only five men left on Elliott’s Creek the Googara tribe
looted the camps, stole firearms, and destroyed every-
thingthey didn’t take away; yet the diggers did not retali-
ate, though the resident magistrate (then at Tamata, 60
miles away) refused to send his police to deal with the
matter. At Milen Bay, nearSamarai, where the missionaries
have been rounding-up niggers for years, the natives were
allowed to rob the diggers’ camps as they pleased,
Government nevei interfering until two thieves were
shot, and two white men tried for murder. Judge
Winter has tried several such alleged murder cases with-
out a jury, and has managed, so far, to give justice; but
if a weak-minded man had been here, who would have
been influenced by the apostles of black cant, there might
have been trouble ere now. But it would be better to
have a jury, because a Judge may be wise to-day and a
fool to-morrow. The missionaries mean well, but they
would be better employed in the slums of London or of
some of the big Australian towns. The diggers want
(1) protection where necessary from thieving natives ; (2),
mule-tracks into the interior, so that store goods can be
sold at reasonable prices and sick men brought down
to the coast; (3), a hospital and medical attendance at
Samarai; (4) a money-order office in Samarai, with branches
where necessary on the goldfields ; (5) no prohibition of
landing cattle, horses, sheep, goats and fowls on the
mainland ; (6) less official ignorance, less tinned-dog, and
more gold.


to
BOMBS EES?
Z3'°WC3DIUI
AMO SMOKE
V All 11'
/
■
i*
/V
%
u
*3
z%g/%r/ir a/j rc a/Gssrm
i
Are You Saving: the Photos ?
For every hundred forwarded to us we will give (or post free) a HANDSOME CLOTH-BOUND ALBUM made especially to contain
the photographs. It will be well worth your while to have one.
OGDEN’S, LIMITED, 45 York Street, Sydney.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies ail
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, yoi,
never can recover, but go on suffering tiPi deatli releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your ease is hopeless, 01
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed '» no reason for no* now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASnHOPFER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs
Ilouaemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, 1/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
LOVELY COLORS
BRILLIANT
GLOSS.
REJECT
IMITATIONS.
■
V
P! NALLS
OXIDISED
NAM EL. j
i"ii!! , iiiuii
|ll .1111 1111111.11.11 l mil || 1111 l 1111-11 l HIM Hill *
!}|iii:illlll|lllllll|illllllHI 111 l lllll'.lllllll llllII:
ti* it ilium i iiiii iiiii ill u mat; jj Qm
yiifIEADV FOR USE •a 1 ’;
ERFECT
PACTIONS FOR USE
NEW CROSS. LONDON. S.E
WMw
3
See that Asphalt's name
and Medals are stamped
on every Tin.
MANUFACTURED BY
ASPINALL’S ENAMEL, Ltd., NEW CROSS,
LONDON, ENG.
LEARN TO HYPNOTIZE!
Reader, do you desire to become a Hypnotist? Do you want to know howto utilize the most
powerful and mysterious force of nature? Do you value control over others ? Do you value the
means of securing friendship, love and personal influence? Do you value the power to conquer
pain and banish sickness, to reform a misguided friend, to gain business success, to win wealth,
position and happiness ? If you do, you must learn to Hypnotize. Why not? No other accom-
plishment is so easily acquired. It can be mastered in a few hours time, without leaving your
home. . It costs nothing to find out all about it. The greatest Hypnotist of the century has just
issued in book form a large and exhaustive TREATISE, OR INSTRUCTOR IN HYPNOTISM,
w^lo * e f> roun d of his Science, and he will send it while the edition lasts, absolutely
FREE TO ALL who apply. The book is profusely illustrated, containing beautiful and artistic
engravings, and shows as never was done before the principles, features, wonders
and uses of this mysterious Science, all in a popular and pleasing style. It tells
you just what Hypnotism is and hat, you may accomplish with it. It shows you
how you may sway the minds of others, per orm astounding feats,
and produce amusement by the hour. New and instantaneous
methods. Success absolutely guaranteed. Remember this grand
work costs you nothing. It benefits everybody who reads it. It
places you in touch with the wonder-science of the age. Read
it anyhow. It is absolutely EREE. Apply at once to—
PROF. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S'.W.
a EVERY MAN £
SUFFERING from DEBILITY and WEAKNESS should
send for a valuable Pamphlet explaining how all
Nervous and Organic Derangements may be success-
fully treated without stomach medication. The method
is easy and pleasant, and will effect a perfect and per-
manent cure. Sent in a plain sealed envelope free of
charge. E. NORTON, 59 &60 Chancery Lane, London
m Eno. Over 30 years’ continuous success. ’
Free for Asking:.
%A#RITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong- and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to Proprietor, Box 135, G.P.0., Adelaide, S.A.
Publications.
N€W SON<S
£
&
ft
mm*
7
4V. Author or
"Am* the Ball "
TktiiU Coma TmTSaeah the Nun to Mother
Price 2htf
Allan & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Melbourne
Read the Words :
If You Please, Miss, Give Me Heaven.
“ Papa, I’m so sad and lonely,”
Sobbed a tearful little child ;
“ Since dear mamma’s gone to Heaven,
Papa, darling, you’ve not smiled.
I will speak to her and tell her
That we want her to come home;
Just you listen, and I’ll call her
Through the telephone:
Chorus—
“lf you please, Miss, give me Heaven—for mv Mamma’s
there;
You can find her with the angels on the golden stair.
She’ll he glad it’s me who’s speaking—call her, won’t you.
please,
For I want to surely tell her we’re so lonely here.”
When the girl received this message,
Coming o’er the telephone,
How her heart thrilled in that moment,
And tjie wires seemed to moan ;
“ I will answer, just to please her:
‘ Yes, dear heart, I’ll soon come home.”'
“ Kiss me, Mamma,-kiss your darling,
Through the telephone.”
Chorus— “ If you please, Miss,” etc.
€S
K. 1*
276-278 COLLINSST.
PROP., Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address —L.D.l.i 300 Collins Bt<i Mslboufns
“ Tackra ” : N.S.W. South Coast train,
2nd-class carriage ; atmosphere of stale beer,
onions, and vile tobacco. One old lady, reeking
with tanglefoot, has her arms full of stale vege-
tables, while her head reclines on a boozy old
man’s shoulder. “ She ain’t me lawful wife, yer
know,” he observes. “She’s Bill’s, but I’m ’is
chum, so it’s all right. He's under the seat.” One
gentleman is leaning out of the window hideously
ill, while two women hold him by the coat-tails.
“He’s the boss’s son,” they explain, “and we’re
takin’ ’ini ’ome safe—he’s ’ad a drop.” Close by
are two men, wrapped in drunken sleep and each
other’s arms, snoring horribly. Presently several
women, all beery, come in and laugh uproariously
at every word the half-drunken men utter. Soon
a bottle goes round, and the jokes and stories
become very risky. At last, when it comes to
candid obscenity, I expostulate, and am answered
with : “Yah, yer bloomin’ toff ! If we ain’t good
enuff for yer, yer can git.” And I “ gat ” accord-
ingly.
An indignant Auckland (M.L.) ex-Mayor
(Mr. Phillips) wants to know what The Bulletin
means by aspersing the fair name of that city and
of its trams :—
It is true in the past the tramways were slow, but sure,
and we could boast of few if any accidents (more than
Sydney can say). We are now about to start electric
trams. Auckland has good concentrated Municipal
Government (unlike Sydney). The Municipality of Auck-
land controls the water supply (at a good profit),
drainage, free library (superior to Sydney’s), art galleries
(two), fire brigade, four parks, 2000 acres country land
endowments, 70 acres city endowments, realising now
nearly £20,000 per annum (will in a few years reach
£100,000 per annum), abattoirs (new), large market and
cemeteries, receives all license revenues, including hotels,
theatres and auction rooms. The Tramway Co. pays a
large rental for the use of roads. The Auckland Gas Co.
pays about £1800 per annum rates (in Sydney I believe
the Gas Co. pays nothing !) Auckland leading streets are
now asphalted with Swiss asphalt, so that dust is con-
spicuous by its absence. The city has also - a forest
reserve on the west coast of the province, of 5500 acres,
where the noble kauri tree flourishes.
[Yes, on the whole, Auckland, M.L., can give
some points to effete Australian municipalities.—
Ed. B.]


THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: fIELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
T WBUTT-UIl<rTH: IR-lEIPOie.T.
Presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting on 29th October, 1902.
The Directors have pleasure in placing before Shareholders the annexed Balance-Sheet and Statement
of Accounts for the half-year ending 30th September, duly audited and certified.
The net profits (including £2,019 17s. lid. brought from last half-year) amount to .. .. £9,715 7 3
out of which it is proposed to pay a dividend at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum .. . . .. . . 3’750 0 0
leaving a balance to be carried forward of .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £5 965 7 3
The business continues to progress satisfactorily, a large number of new accounts having been opened since
last balance.
The steady expansion of the business has latterly made it difficult to carry on operations in the present
premises, and the directors have for some time past been considering the question of securing a building containing
sufficient accommodation for present requirements, with room for further expansion. They are pleased to be able
to announce that they have bought, for £50,000, the building lately belonging to the Oit.v of Melbourne Bank to
which the business will be removed in the early part of next year, when possession of the banking chamber will’ be
obtained and certain necessary alterations made.
The Directors think they can fairly congratulate the shareholders on being the owners, at a low figure, of one
of the best sites for banking purposes in the city of Melbourne, and they feel assured that a very considerable
accession of business must result therefrom.
The Directors would again appeal to the shareholders to assist them, as in the past, by bringing such business
as they may be able to introduce, and they take this opportunity of mentioning that the arrangements recently made
with foreign agents enable the bank to transact business in all parts of the world on favorable terms. J
By order of the Board,
H. T. WILSON, Manager.
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED,
For the ,Half=Year ending 30th September, 1902.
Dr. CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Capital Authorised—
-600.000 shares of
To notes in circulation
To hills in circulation
To Government deposits, nil ..
To Other Deposits—Rebate and In-
terest Accrued—
not bearing in-
terest .. .. £152,831 4 10
Bearing interest 459,947 5 9
To balance due to other banks
To contingent liabilities, as per contra
£182,215 7 3
5,940 0 0
39,627 12 9
612,778 10 7
500 0 0
173,616 0 0
£1,005,677 10 7
By coin, bullion,
and cash at
bankers
By Government,
municipal, and
other public
stocks, deben-
tures and funds
By notes and bills
of other banks ..
By balances due
from other banks
By stamps ..
ASSETS.
£173,136 4 7
95,195 0 0
1,245 8 5
13,821 16 0
471 4 10
By Real Estate, .consisting of—
Bank premises, nil ..
Other real estate at cost to bank
By bills discounted and other advances,
exclusive of provision for bad and
doubtful debts
By bank furniture, fittings, stationery,
&c., at cost, less £720 written off for
depreciation
By liabilities and securities of cus-
tomers and others in respect of con-
tingent liabilities as per contra
£283,869 13 10
19,816 12 9
527,776 4 0
600 0 0
173,616 0 0
£1,005,677 10 7
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT,
To salaries, rent, and other charges .. £3,468 16 2
To balance .. . k .. .. .. 9,715 7 3
£13,184 3 5
B.v balance at 31st March, 1902
Less dividend, declared
30 April, 1902 .. £3,750 0 0
Carried to reserve fund 7,500 0 0
By balance carried down
By profits for the half-year, after de-
ducting interest accrued, on deposits
and rebate on bills current, less
reserves for bad and doubtful debts
£13,869 17 11
11,250 0 0
£2,619 17 11
10,564 5 6
£13,184 3 5
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
By balance
By transfer from profit and loss
account, 30th April, 1902
£15,000 0 0
7.500 0 0
£22,500 0 0'•
Patents for. Inventions. —Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.*
The corset has saved more than one
woman’s life. A Lismore (N.S. W.) woman’s stays
recently stayed a charge of buckshot fired by the
usual didn’t-know-it-was-loaded idiot at short
range.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N. S. Wales : Sayers,
Allport and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
s- eniw sunn of iostkimsii *■
♦
THE NINETEENTH REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
. . . OF . . .
THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
To be 'presented to the Shareholders at the 19th Ordinary General Meeting, to be held at
the Bank, 126 Elizabeth-street, at noon, on Tuesday, 28th October, 1902.
REPORT.
THE Directors beg to submit to the Shareholders their Nineteenth Report, with a Balance-sheet and Statement of
Profit and Loss for the ftalf-year ended 30th September, 1902, duly audited.
After providing for expenses of management, interest accrued on deposits, rebate on bills current, tax on. pote
circulation and making provision for bad and doubtful debts, the net profit amounted to .. £16,263 17 7
Brought forward from 31st March, 1902 .. .. .. 2,761 12 11
£19,025 10 6
Which the Directors propose to apportion as follows, viz. :
Dividend at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum on Preference Shares .. .. .. £7,601 2 0
Dividend at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum on the Ordinary Shares 3,359 9 10
To Reserve .Fund 5,000 0 0
Balance carried forward «. .. 3,064 18 8
£19,025 10 6
During the Half-year a Branch of the Bank has been opened at Glen Thompson.
The Dividend will be payable at the head office on and after the 29th inst., and at the branches on receipt of
9.dvinp
The NINETEENTH ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS will be held at the head office
of the company, 126 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, on TUESDAY, the 28th day of OCTOBER, 1902, at noon.
By order of the board,
Melbourne, 15th October , 1902.
SELBY PAXTON, General Manager.
BALANCE-SHEET
Dr.
OF THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD*
For the Half-year Ending 30th September, 1902. Ct.
To Capital Paid-up, viz. :
31,184 preference shares
paid in cash to £9 15s. .. £304,044 0
77,278 ordinary shares
paid in cash to £1 15s.
per share, £135,236 10s. ;
less calls due and in
arrear, £856 155... .. 134,379 15
To Reserve fund
„ Profit and loss . . .. ..
~ Notes in circulation ..
~ Bills in circulation.
To Government Deposits—
Not hearing 1 interest,
£47,233 6s. 4d. ; bearing
interest, £276,372 Os. Id. £323,605 6
„ Other Deposits —Rebate
and Interest Accrued—
Not bearing interest,
£753,117145. lOd.; bear-
ing interest, £1,129,908 :
Is/9d. .. .. 1,883,025 16
Contingent liabilities, as per contra
0
0
-£438,423 15 0
.. 40,000 0 0
~ 14,025 10 6
. 107,815 0 0
. 40,592 7 9
5
7
-2,206,631 3 0
.. 62,124 17 0
£2,909,612 13 3
By coin, bullion, and cash
at bankers .. .. £353,461 3 1
„ Victoria Government
inscribed stock, Metro-
politan Board of Works,
and municipal deben-
£477,Bs9 11 6
By Real Estate, consisting of—
Bank premises at cost to new bank .. 193,218 0 1
Other real estate at valuation .. .. 64,745 10 2
„ Bills discounted and other advances,
exclusive of provision for bad or
doubtful debts 2,095,919 16 10
„ Shares in other companies at valuation 14,544 17 8
„ Chattel property at valuation .. .. 1,200 0 0
~ Liabilities of customers and others in •
respect of contingent liabilities, as per
contra .. 62,124 17 0
£2,909,612 IS 3
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To current expenses (including
rents, repairs, stationery, &o.)
„ Bank-note tax
„ Transfer to reserve fund ..
~ Balance ..
salaries,
.. £23,907 18 9
1,090 17 8
5,000 0 0
.. 14,025 10 6
£44,024 0 11
By B ilance broujfht forward £2,761 12 11
„ Gross profits for the half-year, after
allowing for interest accrued on
deposits, rebate ori bills current, and
making; provision for bad and doubtful
debts •• 41,262 14 0
£44,024 6 11
RESERVE FUND
ACCOUNT.
To Balance £40,000 0 0
! ■ „
£40,000 0 0
By Balance brought forward £35 000 0 0
~ Transfer from profit and lose .. .. 5,’000 0 0
£40,000 0
At Poverty Point.
The theatrical libel action seems to have just now a
wide popularity. The playwright responsible for a farce
called “The Giddy Goat ” sued the Era for d amages because
that paper remarked on the miserable character of the
piece. In evidence the play was described by an expert
witness (William Archer) as “thoroughly disgusting.”
Yet the jury gave a verdict for plaintiff—certainly only
with a farthing damages, but still a verdict; - English
libel law is said to be more “ liberal ” . than Australian,
but certainly no Australian jury would give a verdict, even
for a farthing, against a newspaper for fair comment on a,
rubbishy play. . ;
How wickedly has stageland been maligned! From
Clara Morris’s recently-published reminiscences of a long,
life on the stage, it appears. tha.t the mdst ferocious virtue
reigned all round. Though the lady must have been
more or less acquainted personally with 2000 members of
the profession, only one (a ballet-girl) is mentioned as
having lapsed. And Clara’s associates, when they spoke of
that one, used to close their dressing-room doors, and lower
their voices in pity. It was computed in ancient Borne
that the number of Vestal Virgins who fell from the paths
of rectitude was one per 200. Thus the standard of
purity among American actresses is vastly better than
that of the Vestals, though the punishment of the latter,
on proof of guilt, consisted in being bricked up in a vault
until the Last Day.
Dear Bulletin.— “ E.” says : “The average muck pro-
duced in Australia as a famous London success is proba-
bly unknown to any part of the metropolis”—which is
just what 1 said. But that it “ never gets a show in the
prosperous suburbs ”is quite untrue. And the fact that
the “ filthy portions of Islington are situated within two
miles of London G.P.0.” does not affect any of my state-
ments. As a matter of fact, there isn’t any part of
London which isn’t filthy—barring a few main streets,
which serve to cover up the dirt at the back. There are
plays other than lurid melodrama which are nonsensical,
humor, which is pathetic (as nearly all British humor is),
and pathos which is humorous. Nothing that Beerbohm
Tree could do could be anything but nonsenical (judging
by his weak-kneed Ulysses with the barber’s arms), and
nothing that Wilson Barrett could act could be anything
but contemptible as Art. And I wrote that paragraph
complained of by “ E.” not to sneer at England, but to
prompt Australia, which is better-educated than Eng-
land, to refuse a hearing to undramatic or unliterary or
unmusical tripe whose only passport is that it was made
in England. I don’t hate England : I’m sorry for it; but
I hate to see my countrymen perpetuating English ugli-
ness and English errors.—lt.B.
Minnie Palmer, the dolly little woman who came out to
Australia long ago, as “ My Sweetheart,” is threatening
to produce herself in London as a new variety of Nell
Gwynne. Minnie will, presumably, mash King Charles in
a frilled pinafore and a sun-bonnet.
The thinnest “Australian play” on record has been
written round Dan Leno, at present the particular pet of
the London “ halls.” In it he comes out as manager of
Madame Marie’s Supply Stores at Ooddletown, A tribe
of aborigines is reported to have “ risen,” and to be
making for Ooddletown, and Leno is ordered to fall in as
Sergeant of the Town Guard ! The rest seems to be pure
foolery of the “ Old Guard ” type.
“ F.C.”: Marshall-Hall had a whole two columns in
Melbourne Herald, lately, explaining the mysteries of
Beethoven’s Sonata in F. There is, doubtless, some mystic
attraction about F, but to a common or Philistine person
it appears incomprehensible why these composers write
so much about such very ordinary letters, and why
others lavish so much care on interpreting and explaining
them. Seems to me I would be interested to hear a Dirge
of the Drought (instead of B flat) and I would like to
drink in the melody of a Symphony of Falling Waters—the
Break of the Drought. Then I might expect to bring
before my eyes the deathly wildernesses I had seen, or
the springing of new' hopes and grass, as the blessed rain
fell; but there is no inspiration about G tame or D dull—
they have no soul.
Perth is likely to have a decent theatre at last; the
magistrates have granted a provisional license for it—
and, of course, also for the inevitable accompanying
place where you inquire about a bottled dog. The plans
provide for an outlay of £20,000.
Rignold says : “I have never lost, money on Shake-
spearian productions.”
“ Skull ,? f'Heard : the late Dick. Stewart tell of his
earliest Australian effort to introduce a little realism into
Shakespeare. It was somewhere in Ballarat district in the
early days—at the old Charley Napier, I imagine, and “As
You Like It ” was to be staged. There was at that time a
notorious Geordie wrestler in Ballarat, a very popular
character, and it occurred to the management that it
would be a good idea to put up the old Tynesider as
Charles. Tynesider was agreeable. He’d undertake to
throw the whole cdmpany for a fiver. It was found
difficult to convince him that he must allow Orlando the
fall, but at length, in response to many protestations, he
promised to obey.. But when the time came Charles the
Wrestler practically- threw Orlando into the middle of
next week and the hero' remained upon the boards,
wrecked,; Then there was trouble. The manager ran on
yelling profanity. “ You idiot ' What have you
done f” he shrieked. " Think of the play I ” “ Play, be
domnied.! ” replied Gedrdie coolly, “ thoo think o’ my
reputation.” The story sounds very old, but it probably
happened to several managers. The idea of getting
realism on the cheap by hiring a genuine wrestler comes
to every manager who plays “As You Like It.” And
when the hulking one is seized by a weed named Orlando
who couldn’t wrestle with a setting hen, the temptation
to throw him away with one hand is very great.
Lately appearing at Kalgoorlie (W.A.) a couple of
heavy ladies known as the “Giant Sisters.” Weights,
respectively, 39st. 91bs., and 36st.
An Australian in Johannesburg writes that he recently
paid ten “ bob ” for a seat at the Standard Theatre to see
Hall’s Australian Juveniles in “The Transit of Venus.”
As a loyal member of the Commonwealth he could have
endured the infliction of the performance if he had felt
persuaded that Hall’s Juveniles were genuine Australian
natives, but he couldn’t detect any aroma of the gum-
tree and the wattle in their amateurish display. Where
did Hall raise those Juveniles, and who is Hall, anyhow ?
“ Theorbo ”: Melba and boy Kruse, the Australian
violinist, tried a joint Australian tour about 15 years ago,
but it broke down financially.
“Pro.”: The incident of one of the Florehz acrobats
smashing a hole through the Bendigo stage recalls a bit
of greenroom fungi about that city. It is said that when
Lola Montes was acting there, in a piece called “ Asmodeus,
or the Little Devil,” a thunderstorm burst over the
theatre, and lightning actually shivered a plank of the
stage. Lola complimented the manager on his effects.
Madeleine Lucette Ryley makes one of the characters
in “ Mice and Men,” which is timed about the beginning
of the last century, say to the experimenting Professor:
“ I won’t interfere--it’s your funeral! ”
Florence St. John, the Nellie Stewart of comic opera in
London, lately ventured into straight-out comedy, allee
same as Nellie, but with less success.
Fitzsimmons, following the example of John L. Sullivan
and other ’Murkan heavyweights, has taken to the stage,
and plays lead in “ The Honest Blacksmith ” at the
Columbia Theatre, ’Frisco. Fitz.’s dramatic work con-
sists mainly in shoeing horses and punching the enemies
of virtue. The play is a melodrama in four rounds.
G. V. Brooke was acting at Drury Lane, in 1854, while
Phelps was doing “ A Midsummer Night’s Dream ” at
Sadler’s Wells. One night Phelps, in his part ot Bottom,
said he could roar like a lion. Voice from the gallery
" Can you roar like Brooke ? ”
“S.S.” : To “ Paradis ” (B. 20/9/’O2), dicken ! The idea
that the ballet girl of our time is always as young as she
looks from the back stalls or the gallery (glasses barred)
is a big error. Williamson has “ girls ” hopping on
who have been with him for years, and who are
matronly persons “off.” During Musgrove’s recent
comic opera season at Melb. Princess the most attractive
of his chorus “ girls ” from in front was a handsome St.
Kilda dame who has a daughter of 18 or 19 and a son of
21. As in the days of yore, the sprightly young thing
whom the stalled calf adores is still liabie to be some'-
body’s grandmother. A young Melbourne pressman
(married) addressed his washerwoman recently: “ I think
it must be a daughter of yours I see dancing in the ballet
at the .” “Devil a fear!” was the reply “That’s
me 1 ” Washer-woman by day, ballet-£ft>( by night. How’s
that for industry ? ”
In a recent London melodrama.the .villain is known as
the Vulture on account of his huge bird-like beak and
ten clawy Angers. The beak and claws are expected to
be taken quite seriously by the blood-curdled audience,
and one of the characters in the drama is a learned
professor, who buys the right of dissecting Vulture’s
body after death, in the hope of discovering a “rudi:
mentary gizzard.” The awful human bird turns virtuous
at the Anish, cuts his claws, and removes his beak out of
the drama, and takes his hook. A half-formed hope on
the part of the audience that he might be dissected
publicly in the last act thus falls through.
It was predicted by Mrs. Brown Potter when she made
her theatrical cUbut in 1887 that she would never
become a second Mrs. Langtry.” All the same the
Chicago lady with the strange elocution, angular eccen-
tricities; and plastered brow has achieved better work
than Mrs. Langtry was ever capable of.
She was an actress ; he was an actor. She had a book ;
he had a look. “Love Me For Ever," he read. “Quite
an out-of-date-book,” she said.
A long-suffering theatrical co. in a certain town, the
other day, had to postpone its performance because a
party billed to play the part of a “ Ane old English gen-
tleman ” was held-up in his bedroom by an irate and
powerful publican, who had found him removing his
duds piecemeal, aud suspected a Aitting. He locked the
suspected one up in a top-storey bedroom, and refused
toJet him out until the co. manager sent down a ransom,
covering arrears of board. The frenzy of the caged actor
as the hour for his appearance at the theatre approached
and passed, rivalled the battle scene in “ Henry V.”
Most people talk of May Beatty’s curious voice. As a
matter of fact, the scarcely deAnable something that
makes it curious—sort of edgy metallic underlay—is not
unique, but has frequently been associated with success
in Miss Beatty’s line of comedy. Seems, indeed, almost
as if a suggestion of not necessarily tuneless brassiness in
an actress’s voice betokens at times that rare and precious
thing in woman, a sense of humor. Nellie Farren had
more than a suspicion of it, and the incomparable Judic
had it notably. Among later and lesser stars, it is con-
spicuous in May Yohe. As to Miss Beatty, she is winsome
and funny ; she has grit, sufficient audacity, and a con-
siderably developed artistic sense. Her trouble will
probably be that in a year or two she’ll be several sizes
too fat.
In his farewell speech at the Royal, Sydney, Brough
quoted the'last words or” Pagliacci.”' The S.M. Herald
printed the quotation “La Comedie est Anita”; the
D.T., “La commedia e Anita ” ; the Evening News, “ La
Comedie est Arri Ji ;‘the STAR wisely-used the English trans-
lation, “ The comedy (better ‘play ’) is Anished.” -
The incident of the lighted cigar in “ Sherlock .Holmes ”
has been adapted to a new sensation in a recent melo-
drama, where the villain handsomely challenges the hero
to Aght a cigarette duel. They each light a cigarette,
then plunge themselves into darkness by turning out the
gas (the scene is a club-room), and shoot with revolvers
at their respective danger signals. The villain nobly
keeps his cigarette between his teeth, instead of planting
it on the mantel-shelf or elsewhere, and so gets killed for
his fair dealing—a quite unusual fate for a villain.
Ellen Terry, playing in “ The Merry Wives of Windsor,”
atßeerbohm Tree’s theatre, was quite proud to let it be
known that she had a grand-daughter Aguring in the
same show, as one of the little fairies who pinch Falstaff.
How old is Nora M‘Kay, the promising short-skirted
Castles co. violinist? Judged by her frocks, Nora should
be 17 at most; but the lines of her face and chin . are
more matured, her covert glances are astute and of this
world, and she has womanly and knowledgeable ankles.
Differently coiffured and frocked and corseted, she would
easily pass for 25.


The Bulletin Story Book (price ss.
post-free from The Bulletin office) has been
everywhere hailed as by far the best book of
Australian stories and sketches yet published.
All the best-known Australian writers, for the
last ten years, are represented; and, both for
interest and literary value, the selection is un-
surpassed in this country.*
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hendy. Treas., Julius Grant.
3rd WEEK of the Ever-Popular MAGGIE MOORE.
THURSDAY and FRIDAY, OCTOBER 23 and 24,
ARRAH-NA-POGUE.
SATURDAY, OCT. 25, the Bright and Original Comedy,
THE WIDOW FROM JAPAN,
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan's.
RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Under the Direction of Mr. Frank Thornton.
Farewell Appearances of Mr. Frank Thornton and his
Selected London Comedy Co.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, LAST NIGHT of
CHARLEY’S ATJ3XTT,
The Queen of Laugh-Makers.
SAT., OCT. 25, LAST SIX NIGHTS of the Season, the
Evergreen Farcical Play, THE PRIVATE SECRETARY.
PRICES—Dress Circle ‘and Orchestra Stalls, ss. ; Stalls,
3s. ; Amphitheatre, One Shilling. Box Plan at Allan's.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
the New and Immensely Popular Musical Comedy,
the toreador,
interpreted by full strength of the Co.
Prices as Usual. TEli Box Plan at Allan’s.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. William F. Hawtrey.
Business Manager .. Leonard Davis.
EVERY EVENING, THE HAWTREY COMEDY CO.
in a New and Original Farce, ■
OH, MR. PENNILOVE,
by G. W. Elton.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. Matinee every Wednesday.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’ and The Grand.
R. BENTLEY YOUNG, Representative.
pITZGERALD 8R05.’
GREAT CIRCUS & MENAGERIE,
JUST OYER PRINCE’S BRIDGE, MELB.
A GIGANTIC AND PALPABLE SUCCESS.
Every Act,. Feat and Feature received Nightly with
Thunders of Applause, and
THE FITZGERALD BROS.’ SHOW
acclaimed again and again
THE GREATEST YET SEEN IN MELBOURNE.
The Building and Decorations alone surprise and
astonish all.
Box Plan at Glen’s, and Grand Hotel.
PRICES—4s., 35., 25., and One Shilling.
FRANK JONES, Representative.
Amusements.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee «. .. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING. EVERY EVENING.
BLAND HOLT’S Sporting and Spectacular Melodrama,
A MILLION OF MONEY.
» •
POPULAR PRICES—3s., 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE, S YDN EY.
SOLE LESSEE .. .. Mr. JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
Manager Mr. Frank Weathersby.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
3VE3FLS. GOLDSTEIN.
SATURDAY, OCT. 25, COMIC OPERA SEASON,
JOHN F. SHERIDAN
as
HOOLIGAN, in the Bright Operatic Burlesque,
LITTLE
CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS
CHARLES KENNINGHAM as DON JUAN.
LEON ROCHE as CAPTAIN SLAMMER.
CELIA MAVIS as PEPITA.
FLORRIE BARNS as LITTLE CHRISTOPHER.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY at 2.30.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES—3s.. 25.. Is. 6d., & Is.
AL ACE THEATRE, SYD N EY.
Lessees .. .. Messrs. LEE and RIAL.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 7.46. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, a Musical Comedy,
in 2 Acts, entitled,
THE MESSENGER BOY.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Nicholson and Co.
PALACE TH E ATR E, SYD NE Y.
Lessees .. .. Henry Lee and J. G. Rial.
SUB-LESSEE and MANAGER,’ WILLIAM ANDERSON.
SATURDAY j NOVEMBER i,
Special and Extraordinary Production of “THE PLAY
OF THE CENTURY,”
Edmond Rostand’s Fascinating Poetical Romance,
CYRANO PC BERGERAC.
By Special Arrangement with
MR. HENRY LEE.
who will appear in his Famous Impersonation of
CYRANO,
Assisted by Miss Eugenie Duggan and a complete
and adequate company.
PRICES —55., 35., 25., and Is. Plan of Seats at Elvy’s.
ALEC. MIDDLETON, Business Manager.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2,
The Latest and Greatest Dramatic Novelty,
SHERLOCK HOLMES.
Mr. CUYLER HASTINGS as SHERLOCK HOLMES,
Supported by Mr. Williamson’s
SPECIALLY ORGANISED DRAMATIC COMPANY.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Prices as Usual.
Tivoli t heat re, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. Harrv Rickards.
LAST THREE NIGHTS of LAST THREE NIGHTS
THE MIGHTY SAN DOW.
Magnificent Success of the MONTROSE COMPANY.
Mr. & Mrs. TOM NAWN & CO. WILTON BROS.
WALLACE BROWNLOW.
A. G. SPRY, TOD CALLAWAY, LES. WARTON,
THE BIOSCOPE.
Dress Circle & Orchestra Stalls, 4s. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Family
Circle, until 7.40, 2s. ; after 7.40, Is. No Booking Fees.
ICKARDS’ NEW O PERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.m.
PAUL Cl NQUEVALLI.
Mr. & Mrs. SIDNEY DREW.
Charlie SKENCK BROTHERS Willie
SAM HOLDSWCRTH. FRED. POPLAR. KITTY WACER.
ADA WILLOUGHBY.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. ‘@2i Plan at Allan’s.
s>,
MEN
If
you
suffering from Yarico-
cele, Atrophy, Weak-
ness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and packing), and
I will send
MEDICINE p“'.. FREE
FOR YOUR INDIVIDUAL CASE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which give back
strength of body and brain—not a free prescription
dodge, but a trial of my wonderful remedy free for
the asking.
Professor H. READ,
165 Collins ' t eet, Melbourne.
\
WEAK MEN CURED FREE.
We have the most powerful and practical cure ever
yet invented for the positive, certain, and radical cure
of Rheumatism, Lumbago, Weak Back or Kidneys,
Nervousness, Liver, Bladder, and Stomach troubles;
in fact, all chronic diseases. In 20 years we have cured
50,000 weak men and women. Our method cannot
possibly fail. No matter, what other treatment or belt
you may have used, WE WILL CURE YOU, and we
are so positive of the tremendous therapeutic properties
of our latest improved Belt that we will send our Latest
Model Full Power No. 8 .Belt,, complete with all
attachments, to any person writing us, and you can
wear it for 90 days, and you only
PAY WHEN CURED.
This is the most generous offer ever yet made, in
order thoroughly to introduce throughout the Common-
wealth this splendid Belt." Our New Belt is positively
the only guaranteed Belt now in use which does not
require vinegar to generate its current. It is guaranteed
for 3 years, and you have the advice and care of a
physician till cured. One Belt can be worn by 8
persons. It generates a powerful vitalising current of
electricity, which you feel the instant applied. You
can wear it at night. It cures while you sleep. If you are weak or ailing in any way ;if you
are not the man or woman nature intended you to be, then' try our Belt. It will cure you. it
not it won’t cost you a penny. We will take any other Belt in exchange at half-price. We
have iust published a New and Beautifully Illustrated Medical Book, which is absolutely
FREE TO ALL
writing us. It will interest and help every adult reading it, so delay no longer, but write to-day
for our FREE BOOK and Powerful Belt. Write to-day.
THE DR. J. M. AUSTIN ELECTRIC CO., 39 Queen Street, Melbourne.
At Poverty Point.
In Melbourne, a Collins-st. tobacconist cleared over
£lOO through trafficking in Melba tickets, but the syndi-
cate dealing in them in Sydney did not fare so well. For
the first concert, all tickets were disposed of, but only a
very few at a premium. The second concert was a
disastrous one, 13 guinea tickets remaining unsold. The
postponement of the remaining two events proved a God-
send, more especially as the management refunded
moneys to those whom the altered arrangements did not
suit. Unsold tickets were gladly exchanged for cash,
and a probable loss of £5O was changed to an even-money
event. Experience showed that there were comparatively
few buyers fqr guinea tickets, though half-guinea and ss.
seats were anxiously sought after. In Melbourne, the
guinea tickets were the most eagerly snapped.
The wildly'.ridiculous adulation that Marshall Hall
heaped upon Melba when she visited his Melbourne Con-
servatorium of Music can hardly have been quite sincere.
Marshall Hall is a sworn apostle of heavy German musical
art and a persistent scoffer at the florid Italian and French
compositions which Melba sings. Only a year or two ago,
when Musgrove was producing Wagnerian opera in Mel-
bourne under the blessing of the German cult, the critics
of the local dailies referred to the favorite airs of Doni-
zetti and Verdi as old-fashioned, meaningless things,
written for a soulless generation of opera-goers.
Booking arrangements for the Melba concerts, judging
by letters in the newspapers, were most unsatis-
factory. Scores of people allege all sorts of dodgery.
Pity that it should be so, for nothing turns the public
against a management more quickly than hanky-panky.
Mark your goods in plain figures and sell at those prices
without favor is good policy in more places than a
draper’s shop.
N.S.W. Govt, and Sydney City Council have passed the
?lans for a • new edition of Her Majesty’s Theatre.
enders will be called for in about a fortnight, and the
work will take some six months to complete.
“X ”: Herr Pagel, the “ German Hereules,” has been
touring the country to marvellous business. Must have
netted £5O at Maryborough (Vic.), Pagel, a flaxen giant,
is engineered by his wife, who stridently sets forth the
wonders of his performance to the listening: crowd outside
his marquee. It would be hard to overrate Pagel’s per-
formance. He lifts a horse high into the air without
much difficulty, and carries a pony and boy rider round
the tent on one arm. He lifts weights, too, but a mere
Sandow can do that. Also hoists a lion over his head.
Bulletin said (11/10/’O2) that “ the lion’s remarks when
he came down would be worth listening to.” They were ;
I heard them, and so did Pagel, for, after hoisting the
king of beasts into the air, Pagel had to escape hurriedly
from the cage, so threatening was the demeanor and so
angry the growls of aforesaid monarch. After this
demonstration Pagel let the lion alone for the rest of the
day. It is a wonder to me that the German doesn’t get
some good manager to run him. It is a pity to see the
strong man acting as his own check taker. His day per-
formances require a lot of endurance, seeing that at shows
he would probably perform six or seven times running as
fast as the tent could empty and re-fill. Such work must
kill him soon.
“ Looping-the-loop,” writes The Bulletin’s London
correspondent, “is far and away the most petrifying
pastime that has ever struck these shores. Coney Island
and the U.S. have known it for long, but it is only re-
cently the Crystal Palace has added it to its swamp of
amusements. Writer looped amidst all the mental
terrors of a smashing demise. You enter a small open
car, holding four in two compartments. A wooden bar
swings over your legs and into your waist. Gripping this
and pushing your shoulders hard against the seat-back,
you jam your feet against the footboard and sit rigid.
The car is hauled up an incline of about 50ft. Then
slowly you glide along a square 0 of gentle gradient till
suddenly you shoot a precipice of 60ft. or so—so steep
that no portion of the track is visible after the plunge.
The terrific impulse carries the car right up inside a 40ft.
diameter ring, round and out the other side. Centrifugal
force alone keeps the passengers in their seats, and it is
irresistibly crushing. Try as you will, the shoulders are
drawn forward, the body doubled up ; you feel your chin
pressing on your corns, apparently ; and the clattering,
hammering, clanging noise is like'4ooo of Tophet’s forges
in full swing. You come out with an exhilarated feeling
and a much-crumpled collar.”
Mr. E. W. Witton, of Melbourne, wishes
to point out that the petition for the release of
his brother, Lieut. Witton (of the Bush veldt
Carbineers), which has just been refused by King
Edward, was a private one, signed by 10 members
of the Witton family only. The public petition,
which has already 30,000 signatures, has not yet
been presented; and those in favor of its prayer
should arrange to sign it at once.
August Tisler, the Dandenong murderer,
was hanged in the odor of sanctity last Monday.
The pious statements which he made in his last
moments were almost word for word the same as
those of dozens of other assassins. Apparently
the parson dictates the statement every time, for
even the most ungrammatical murderer gets it off
in good English and puts the comma in beauti-
fully. If the evidence of those confessions goes
for anything, Paradise must be full of saved homi-
cides.
Christianity produces few such practical
altruists as Goodyer Singh, a Punjaubee hawker
who died recently at Temora (N.S.W.). Goodyer’s
amiable dementia began with the presentation of
£l2O worth of goods to whomsoever liked to pick
the stuff up from where he had thrown it in the
street. Next he was heard of as feeding miscel-
laneous cattle that used to assemble at his camp;
and, as he went as high as £8 in one week for
fodder, his money soon ran out; whereupon he
slew his horses, and proceeded to starve himself to
death. When the police got wind of the matter,
and removed him to hospital, he was too far gone
to be brought round.
Grit. A 12-year-old boy, living near
Milparinka (N.S.W.), who recently went out on
horseback looking for some horses, was thrown,
and got a thigh badly broken. He crawled
around until he found a stick (the only one to be
found), which had very jagged ends, and with the
help of this he hopped round for two hours ere he
could catch his horse ; then he climbed up on the
off side (the broken leg being the left) and rode 12
miles home. When he called out for someone to
come and lift him off, as his leg was broken, they
thought.lie was joking, but found the leg swinging
and the palm of the hand badly lacerated by the
jagged "stick he was obliged to use in hopping
round after the horse.
The Lewis-Bird Ministry is surely
doomed; even the monsters of the deep arise
in protest against it. _ T’other week a massive
searleppard was beaten off at the very gates of
Parliament House; now a ferocious-looking
whale, has been spouting adjacent to Hobart
wharf. _ All the local whaling skippers are busy
getting.crews together and sharpening harpoons
for the attack. If the whale is beaten off ere it
charges ashore and swallows the House of Lewis
and Dodery, the sea-serpent will probably con-
stitute the next reinforcement. Both Houses
hurriedly adjourned, immediately the whale hove
in sight, “to attend the agricultural show”; but
such an excuse is considered totally inadequate.
Full-grown whales have not been seen in the
Derwent since 1822, though a little “ nine-tunner ”
was captured near Port Arthur in ’9O.
“Galvo” compares the construction and design
of three of the principal electric tramway systems
of Australasia:
In the Sydney system the overhead construction is
splendid, and the electrical arrangements generally well,
designed and carried out; but the track work is abomin-
' able; The rails used vary in weight from 831 b. per yard
down to 451 b., and considering the enormous traffic, are
far too light and lacking in stiffness. Stand in George-
street, any day, and watch one of the heavy coupled cars
go by, and the rails will be seen to buckle and undulate
like a clothes-line shaken from the end. The result is
that the wood blocks on either side of the road project
one above the other and have the appearance of a cog-
rack. Another peculiarity of Sydney track work is that
the blocks laid between tracks are not tarred, but simply
grouted in with cement and sand. About a year ago I
saw several hundred yards of such newly-laid track in
George-st. West “stand up and look at itself” during a
wet spell, owing to the blocks, having absorbed water.
Sydney tracks are continually under repair.
Perth (W.A.), on the other hand, has very bad over-
head work, but really splendid track-construction, with
921 b. rails in the city and 851 b. in the suburbs. The cost
of maintenance is practically nil, owing to the solidity of
the work. Of course, the amount of traffic in the two
cities cannot be compared, but the fact that 921 b. rails
are considered necessary for a small town like Perth
emphasises the weakness of the Sydney work.
Auckland (M.L.), again, where the construction, as in
Perth, is in American hands, has 921 b. rails throughout,
and the under-track work is particularly heavy and
good. By the way, it may be mentioned here that one of
the finest pieces of “special work” (i.e., crossings and
curves) is to be seen in Auckland, where two tracks which
intersect at right angles have curves connecting them in
all four directions. I know of no other similar piece of
work in Australasia. The overhead construction is also
very fine, being in marked contrast to Perth in that
respect. Light and very handsome iron centre-poles are
used throughout, while the “ feeder” cables (cables which
feed the current to the trolly wires at intervals) are
carried underground through the heart of the city, thus
rendering the work less unsightly than usual.
Adelaide and Dunedin have electric systems in course
of design, and as the engineering is in American hands,
it is safe to predict that rails heavier than those in Sydney
will be used. Reason of Sydney’s singularity in this
respect is hard to understand when the substantial nature
of the rest of the construction is taken into consideration.
♦
“Araxes”: Why does not the Labor member
east off the mantle of ultra-respectability . with
which he has enshrouded himself, and poke his
nose into the question of wholesale leasing of
public bores in N.S.W. ? No sooner are these
finished, as a rule, than they are leased to wool-
scourers at a nominal rent for a long term. Appli-
cants for work at these scours are offered sweating
wages and conditions. In the N. W., in the vicinity
of the Boomi Creek, selectors’ sheep are being fed
on scrub, and are dying for want of water, while
not a mile away bore-water running in drains is
blocked, simply because Govt, will not pay the
proprietor of the bore (leased from Govt.) for the
water to be run there ! Govt, is already paying
the proprietor for water from its own bore for the
use of the carriers’ horses !
0
The recent Trades Congress in England shows
that the workers have at last awakened to the
futility of meeting periodically merely to pass
“resolutions” which the hereditary Tories in
power treat with steady contempt. Thanks to the
goad of the adverse finding by the Law Lords in
the Taff Yale matter, the Trades Unions are now
well forward with plans for contesting about 60
seats at next general election. Money and candi-
dates are both forthcoming, and it is confidently
expected that 30 or more seats will be won. Some
of the election cries are to be —“The appropria-
tion of a slice of the £26,000,000 of poor rates to a
fund for old age pensions,” “free and secular
education,” “better housing for the working
classes,” “clearing away tlie anomalies of the
fiscal system,” “a more equitable system of land-
taxation. ’ ’ Many English papers—even those hostile
—show by. their comments that they consider a
success for Labor assured. And the big new
“ Labor party,” that is not yet elected, is already
receiving much advice about how to hold the
“balanc4 of power.”
“ The difference between a man of genius
and an ordinary man is that the man of genius
retains through life the freshness of a ohild.
John Buskin.
In 1891, according to Coghlan’s statistics,
there were 47,958 hands employed in N.S.W. fac-
tories, and wages were £4,272,704, or £B9 Is. 10a.
each. In 1901 the employees numbered 66,135, and
the wages were £4,943,079, or £74 14s. lOd. each.
Is this great fall attributable to Reid s dry dog
policy, or what ?
Horace Tozer informs Queensland, in his
last annual report, that he carefully advertises his
State, and “makes an endeavor to draw a
picture of life in Queensland which shall be
correct and attractive” to possible emigrants.
Does Horace tell them about the ruined pas-
toralists, struggling farmers, decimated flocks and
herds, and hungry unemployed who just now
swarm in Queensland. If not —why not ? Are
immigrants to be brought out under false pre-
tences ?
From S.M. Herald (21/10/’O2)
The desire of the Johannesburg Chamber of Mines to
claim exemption from taxation for five years is perhaps
natural. But it was understood from the first that the
mining industry should share in the cost of the war. It
was the outlanders of Johannesburg largely who were
responsible for it.
Quite true, though the truth comes rather late in
the day. And what an awful liar the Herald
must have been all these last three years !
It has been proved that Napoleon was a
colossal forger. When he got his grip on Vienna he
obtained complete specifications of the Austrian
apparatus for making bank-notes. This he
duplicated in Paris. His next move was to bribe
his way to getting a similar duplication of the
Russian mechanism, which was not very elaborate.
Thirdly, he insinuated his agents somehow into
the Bank of England, and duplicated its appa-
ratus. He fabricated great numbers of Austrian,
Russian and English notes. His idea was to
destroy the note credit of those nations and force
them to pay in gold, while he annexed all the gold
he could. However, he does not seem to have
made any impression.
The Death of a Lake.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Dry/” said the old fisherman. “Ilived near
Lake George for 50 years, and know as much
about it as any man living. I never thought
it could go dry. It has a belt of dead timber all
round it; and when a scientific man happened
along, we Lake people always wanted to know
the cause of their decay, but could never get any
satisfaction. Some said it was one thing, and
some another. The nearest to the truth, I think,
was the fellow who said it was caused by the
water rotting the roots. Of course water will rot
anything. But these trees all died suddenly in a
week.
“In 1870, Mr. Russell, the astronomer, was up
there. He established an observatory to report
the rise and the fall of the water. His occupation
is gone now. Some people spoke about the tides
there ; but who ever heard of a tide on an inland
lake ? Anyway, I never quite knew what made
the water rise and fall. There seemed to me
something uncanny about it. And now, for the
blessed thing to go and dry up ! The lake basin
is 20 miles by 8, and used to be fed from the Bun-
gendore end, by the Deep and Turalla Creeks,
which rise in the Black Range, way up near Cap-
tain’s Flat. The creeks, in my time, were
narrow, and a couple of good showers started ’em
agoing. Since then, I believe, they have widened
considerably, and it takes a flood to put anything
you could see into them. That may account for
the lake going dry. You’d think the widening of
the creeks would be all the better for the lake;
and so it would be if there was any rain like we
used to have.
“I’ve seen Lake George up to Bungendore;
and into the back yard of the old Lake George
Inn. You could sail a boat out of the yard to
Collector, 26 miles away. Collector is at the
southern end of the lake, and it is bounded on the
west by a range of hills, over which is Gundaroo.
“There was a time before when the old lake
started to dry, and we all thought she was a
“goner,” but she recovered herself again. Then
she formed herself into two basins ; and I drove a
bullock team between them from Carey’s Gap, on
Gundaroo side, to Cooper’s Willeroo station. It
put me in mind of Moses and his crowd going
across the Red Sea. We had the average rainfall
that season too; and it has always appeared to
me that there was an upheaval of mud in the
centre, which caused the two basins to form. If
so, the mud fell back again, as, when the lake
righted herself, there was deeper water there
than anywhere else. I wouldn’t be a bit sur-
prised to hear that the old bath has been leaking,
and that the water has got away into the bowels
of the earth.
“ Fish there ! You’ve just about said it; and
I’ve been wondering all the time I’ve been talk-
ing what could have become of them. There were
tons of ’em. They were all Murray cod, and I
remember the first lot that was put there by Ter-
rence Aubrey Murray. You’ve heard of him, of
course. They were pretty tidy-sized fish, some of
them. I remember one weighing 123£1b. Poor
Lake George 1 ”
YARRUM.


A CHAIN OF EVIDENCE
O3XT
ELECTRICITY and MEDICINE.
The Twentieth Century Treatment.
T
IHERE is a DEATH every time the CLOCK TICKS,
population DIE BEFORE
Eighty per cent, of the world’s
Their Average Life Period is Reached.
Dispase kills the people, therefore Disease must be killed that the people may live. The
SPECIALISTS of I ™E M FR i EEMAN AND WALLACE certain peg
INDIGESTION? DYSPEPSIA, EPILEPSY and RHEUMATICS by their System of
ELECTRICITY AND MEDICINE.
Read the testimonies below on the new method. Stop and think what the wearing of an
Electric “ INVIGORATOR,” combined with special treatment, may mean to you if you are ill.
The Specialists may be consulted Free of Charge.
In chronic disorders they have done more good than any association ofmedical menin
Australasia. Peruse the testimonies of the patients, appended below, and then act in your
interest.
/a
'?#s}'< Wr
Mr. HOWARD FREEMAN,
DIRECTOR OF IHSTITTJTH.
A Professional Pianist Declares
Mr. J. H. Brown, late of Dix
Theatrical Companies, N.Z., suffered
from Brain-fag. He says :
“ I testify to the marvellous benefits Ob-
tained from your Electro-Medical treatment.
I had consulted some leading practitioners in
Sydney with no good results. Anyone suffer-
ing from brain-fag, or general decline of the
nerve system, should consult you.
(Signed) J. H. BROWN.
A Famous Athlete says.
Mr. JACK MARSH, the
brilliant professional bowler and
cricketer, of whom so much
notoriety has recently arisen in
cricketing circles, declares :
“ Heavy strain, entailed by bowl-
ing in many matches, caused weak-
ness in my loins and legs, with rheu-
matic and sciatic tendencies. To
remedy it I tried your Electric
‘ INVIGORATOR,’ and was greatly
benefitted.
(Signed) JACK MARSH.'
NOTE.—The “ INVICORATOR” is
specially beneficial in all cases of
Rheumatic or Sciatic affliction and
is an infallible remedy.
Great Pugilist Swears Thus.
The Champion Lightweight of Aus-
tralia, Mr. G-. Johns, says of this
remarkable system :
“ I have worn one of your Electric ‘ In-
vigorators,’ and have found its effects most
beneficial to my nerve and muscular systems.
It has done me good in training and actual
contests. (Signed) G. JOHNS.”
Champion Lightweight of Australia.
A Great Athlete Testifies.
Mr. JOSEPH MEGSON, the CHAMPION
CYCLIST of NEW SOUTH WALES, says
of his recovery :
" I was on the point of a constitutional break-up more
than once. The merits of your ‘ Invigorator ’ used by me
are beyond question. J. MEGSON.”
Mr. MEGSON can be interviewed upon this
wonderful cure. What has been done for him
can be done for you.
Si
yfirJH.BrowfVK
y
*
~,:'
"—3
JLy
MrJ.Marsh
Vi?" - 4
**
PS
* ;
y«
What
DANI,
The great singer,
says:
SIGNOR CARLO DANI, the distinguished
operatic tenor of the Royal Italian Opera
Company, lately in Sydney, says of the
Electric “ INVICORATOR " which he wore :
“ I have much pleasure to inform you
that, owing to the great lassitude I have
experienced here, due no doubt to sudden
climatic changes, I have worn your Electric
‘ Invigorators,’ from which I have obtained
great benefit to my muscular and nerve
systems.—Yours cordially,
CARLO DANI."
(The original of
this Testimony
may be seen at the
Institute,
DR. RICHARD WALLACE,
M.P., L.R.C.P., 8., L.F.P.S., e., 1.m., Physician-in-Chief
A Famous Rider Speaks.
The new “TOD SLOAN” Ameri-
can style of riding was introduced
into Australia by Mr. Edward H.
Ames, the famous American jockey.
He declares:
“ I wore one of your first-class Electric
•IN VIGOR ATORS,’ and took a course of
your medicines. I regained my usual
nerve power, by which I won two great
racing events in one day.
(Signed) EDWARD H. AMES.”
An Inter-State Pugilist
attests.
Mr. MAT MITCHIE says
of his big fight with Denny
Maloney :
Golden Gate Athletic Club,
Sydney.
“ I wore your Electric ‘ Invigora-
tor’ during training for my fight
with Denny Maloney, and to its
strengthening effect I attribute much
of the vigor and staying power that
enabled me to win the decision.
(Signed) MAT MITCHIE.'
Champion Amateur
Swimmer says.
Mr. Jack Hellings, Cham-
pion Amateur Swimmer, asserts,
after a few months’ treatment at
the hands of the Specialists :
“ I have been cured of rheumatism from
which I suffered for years, with continuous
sciatic attacks. Your treatment of Electro-
Medication has restored me to health.
The ‘INVIGORATOR’ which I wore has
done me more good than I can ever ex-
press.” (Signed) JACK HELPINGS.”
The Prices of these wonderful curative “ IN-
YIGORATORS ” are as follow
Copper Plate, £1; Silver Plate, £1 10s.;
Solid Silver, £3; Solid Gold, £lO (2oz. 18c. Gold).
We hold Certificates of Efficacy unpossessed by
others. Two leading Sydney electricians assert they
are “ electrically perfect, and their currents are con-
tinuous as used for medical purposes.”
These “ INVIGORATORS ” are superior to any
“ Belt ” sold at £5 or £lO each.
The Specialists' Fees: Advice & Medicine, ONE POUND ONLY,
All attestants may be interviewed. If you try this treatment the entire system benefits and beeomesr
as healthy and strong as Nature intended it to be. The “ INVIGORATOR,” correctly worn, infuses into
the system a stream of life-giving energy, the absence of which is the chief cause of many nerve diseases. '
It is the finest MEDIUM IN THE WORLD to physical peace and domestic harmony. Send for special
brochure of testimonies, from eminent persons, posted free. They are unequalled and unquestionable.
550-Page Medical Work, « CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,”
ONE SHILLING, Post Free.
Over 1000 Notable Australian Journals eulogise this work, which ex pounds! the application
of Electricity to the human frame. It is worth a pound a page and is a sound and genuine medical,
adviser. It should be on every man’s bookshelf.
The FREEMAN and WALLACE ELECTRO-MEDICAL and SURGICAL INSTITUTE is
characterised by the Press as an Institute worthy of support.
ft
CP
omm
CTRC
V
I
o
8c
Rgical
UT
Ib>
-FREEMAN * WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAI —.
and SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH and BATHURST
STREETS, SYDSET.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director Electro-Medical Department. Medicines packed Free from Observation and sent to all parts of Australia.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P.. E., L.F.P.S., £., L.M., Physician-in-Chief. Letters treated with Professional Secrecy and promptly replied to.


A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developesa lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Little Girl
had Rickets
And was over two years of age
before she could walk
We have before us a letter which tells of
a little girl who was suffering from rickets,
a disease, as you probably know, which
results from poor nutrition. The letter says:
“ 152, Ashmore Road, St. Peter’s Park,
“ Paddington, London, England,
“ October 22nd, 1900.
“ Dear Sirs, —I can safely say that Scott’s
Emulsion is a splendid preparation for
children. My little girl had rickets very
badly, and was over two years of age before
she could walk. I gave her a course of
Scott’s Emulsion, and the results of its use
were most gratifying. She also had several
fits, but has not had once since taking
Scott’s Emulsion. I gave her the prepara-
tion for a few months, with the result that
she was completely cured of rickets, and
EDITH WEST.
(From a photograph,)
was soon able to walk quite nicely. She
is now four years of age, and is a strong
and healthy child, and I feel convinced it is
owing to her having taken Scott’s Emulsion
that she has got on so well.—Faithfully
yours,
“ (Signed) T. G. West.’’
Scott’s Emulsion overcomes rickets by
supplying lime to the bones, and by enrich-
ing the blood with the properties of food
that give to the growing body vitality and
robust health. The public should not judge
of the merit of cod-liver oil and hypophos-
phites of lime and soda until those remedial
agents are tested as they are found in
Scott’s Emulsion. No other remedy
resembles Scott’s Emulsion in form, or in
the proportion of its ingredients. In the
first place, Scott’s Emulsion disguises tho
tyiste of cod-liver oil completely, which is
one decided advantage. In addition to this,
it presents the oil in its most effectual
form, so that the most good is derived fr. >m
it. This is all-important to the sufferer who
wishes a speedy cure.
tn order to make sure you are purchasing
the genuine Scott’s Emulsion, we sugg< sc
that you look for our trade mark of a mm
holding a big fish over his shoulder. This
trade mark is on the wrapper of every
genuine bottle.
You can obtain a sample of Scott’s Emulsion
by sending fourpence to Scott & Bowne, Ltd.
483 Kent-street, Sydney, and mentioning this
paper. All chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
THE GREAT
BENDIGO
EXHIBITION
ART UNION
To be drawn at Bendigo on
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24.
TOTAL PRIZES, £2400
£1 000 for Is.
£lOOO for Is.
PRIZES TO THE £o4^o
VALUE OF DISTRIBUTED.
7th Prize, £25
Ist Prize, £lOOO
2nd
3rd
4th
sth
6th
The comm
worth of the second prize, and for £l5O of the third prize
pictures. The winners of the fourth to the twelfth prizes
will have the option of selecting' their own pictures.
LAST WEEKS OF SALE.
Secure your Tickets Early from all Stores, Newsagents,
and Stationers throughout Australia.
GEO. V. ALLEN,
General Secretary,
17 Garraway’s Chambers, Queen’s Walk,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE, opp. Town Hall.
So.e Eyes! Blight!
USED 300 YEARS.
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
Never fails . Restores Eyelashes .
HAD FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT.”
Ask your Chemist for this little book.
! '
Nothing Else on
...Same Plane
with the
Premo and Poco
. Cameras
$
They stand alone, and beyond the possibility of
Comparison with other makes . I * « *
PREMOS and POCOS are designed to meet the requirements of all Photographers for
—n, , , all kinds of work — Landscape, Portrait, Stereoscopic,
Tele-Photo and Snapshots. The Lady Photographer and the Cyclist have been specially
catered for. All recent improvements. Mechanical Excellence, Optical Perfection, and great
beauty of finish in smallest space.
Variety of Styles, and Prices to suit all Purchasers,
Just landed and now being unpacked at
The Baker & Rouse Proprietary, Ltd.,
375 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and BRISBANE.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
BILIOUSNESS
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous,
it is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— See capsule marked. ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT WORKS, LONDON, ENG.,
by J. C. ENO S Patent.
AERTEX CELLULAR
Cellular Dress Shirt.
Fitted best Belfast Linen Fronts
and Cuff's, 0.8. or 0.F., one stud.
Cellular Cotton Body—
-6s 6d to 8s 6d
Cellular Lisle Body-
Os 6d and 10s 6d
Cellular Short-Front Shirt
for every-day wear.
Open behind, 2in. linen wrists—
-5s 6d, 6s 6d.
Open front or behind, square
cuffs— 6s Cd, 7s 6d
SHIRTS
Cellular Tennis Shirt.
With Collar and Pocket. The most
comfortable for all out-door sports
of all kinds. A great variety of
patterns stocked.
Plain Colors-, 4s. 6d. to 7s. 6d.
Fancy Designs,. 7s. 6d. to 11s. 6d.
Cellular Day Shirts*
Silk neckbands and soft wrists.
White and Self Colors, 4s to 7s 6d
Fancy Designs, 7s 6d to 9s 6d.
Cellular Neglige Shirts.
Soft fronts of plain or pleated
Cellular Cloth ; wrists, French
Print, Linen, or Cellular. Recom-
mended for Golf, Cycling, &c.
White body, 7s 6d ; colored, 8s 9d
Aertex Cellular Fabric is the ideal form of body covering, possessing all the necessary
hygienic qualities, and being also most comfortable and of attractive appearance, and for those
reasons is recommended by the Medical Faculty wherever introduced.
Illustrated Catalogues, Samples, etc*, post free on application.
DAVID BRAH AM & CO.,
73 and 75 KING STREET,
Sole Agents in N.S.W.
SYDNEY.
Concerning Loyalty.
A song of Loyalty—a song of Pride—a song of
the dues that are Manhood’s and Manhood s only !
A song of him who walks erect —a paean to the
neck that never bends, the stiff spine, the free
heart, and the fearless bosom. Where shall we
find them ? , ,
Shall we seek among the portly paunches of
eminent aldermen, the adipose plenitude of in-
fluential publicans, the verbose brag of bibulous
politicians, the frequent supplications of the
pious and puny ? .
Does a manly heart desire the pitiable adorn-
ment of a paltry bauble ? Does a teeming brain
beget a yearning for the tinsel of trivial titles ?
Does a stajwart soul yearn to kiss the fat fingers
of a crapulous princelet ?
If there be greatness in the simple hero —can
there be grandeur in the simple groveller ?
It seems to me the sin of sins—this venal vice
of mean abasement, —
This gilding wood to look like gold —this carving
of marble tombs to hold- but clay and poor cor-
ruption ; this pouring paeans to the proud who
scorn the lips that pour them; this is, I say, the
Sin of Sins !
There is need for a new creed—a new gospel—
a gospel ot pride, of stiff backs, of noble work and
noble self-reliance;
A creed of less kneeling, less genuflection, more
upright bearing towards Man, less creeping sub-
servience to the free God who loves the free glance
of his own freemen.
I see in many a deity merely the apotheosis of
a fat despot, crowned by cruelty, throned by fear,
surrounded by scourges, Sheolie brimstone and a
multitude of Paradisaical sugar-plums.
There is need, indeed, for a new attitude —
There is need, indeed, for the proclamation of a
true pride as a manly virtue.
And, above all, there is need that a vigorous
manhood should especially brand this venal vice
of mean abasement!
Q.
P.L.
The Illegitimate.
Mary Gilmore writes re illegitimacy:—
No amount of legislation will blot out the stigma of
illegitimacy ; the stigma is not in being illegitimate ; it
lies in having that kind of mother. All that the law can
do is to fix the question of inheritance—of legal standing.
The stigma can only be removed by a change of conven-
tion. The conventional is a people’s interpretation of a
sub-conscious knowledge. When the raison d’etre of the
illegitimacy convention is understood we will probably
know why the woman suffers and the man goes scot free
in these things. A' convention is good till we have evolved
past the stage that produced it, though it may live till a
newer convention kills it. But no matter how logically
absurd a convention may have become, no woman can
break; it without being either below the general standard,
or so much above it that she follows a higher law than
that of the general. If there be no higher law (I refer
solely to the moral) the higher type of woman invariably
conforms to the conventional. “Like mates with like,”
or as near like as circumstances allow. Hence, the
woman who falls below the conventional standard attracts
the man of like level. Thus the stigma of parentage is
doubled. The conventional requires that the infant be
legitimate, and for the well-being of the race it should be
so. The Spaniard, all over the world, is notoriously
illegitimate arid decadent. The life history ;of
the world is -punctuated by the death of nations
that have gone out in a whirl of illegitimacy, childless-
ness (as regards the family), and general immorality.
TnE Bulletin seems to incline to the opinion that the
illegitimate is the child of the strong. The illegitimate
is oply the child of the strong where the convention is
puritanical, for, in such a case, the weak fear to break
through for fear of consequences, and, consequently,
only the strong dare. In relation to the stigma as it
concerns the man and the woman, I think one may
safely say that the nearer the moral tone of a place
approaches that of the city, the less blume attaches to
the man. In real country places the rule is for the girl
to be pitied and the man to find it necessary to clear out.
But the stigma remains all the same. It is always there,
and will always be there while our idea of national
health remains that of the race from which we came
♦
“Burglar Bill” on the present jury-system :
The Briton’s boast of a fair trial by twelve of his peers
is mostly bosh. I’ve been there. On trial once myself
and noticed a friend amongst the jurymen. When he
was called I didn’t bother challenging him. He being a
friend, it might have hurt his feelings to think that 1 did
not consider him a fit and proper person to try my case.
So be formed one of the dozen. The Judge summed up
at 4.25 p.m. dead against me, and the jury retired. They
came back at 7 p.m. with a verdict against my two
fellow prisoners (as one of them admitted his guilt at
the lower court, his Honor did not bother asking
whether it was “Guilty” or “Not Guilty”), but
the foreman intimated that they could not agree re-
garding me. His Honor questioned the foreman as
to whether there were any points of law he could ex-
Elain that would enable them to come to a decision, and
eing answered in the negative, informed them that he
would wait till 10 p.m. to take their verdict. If they had
not agreed then he would lock them up for the night.
At 10.5 they returned, and my friend, who had previously
occupied a front seat, sneaked into a back one. So I
didn’t wSnt to hear the foreman speak to know it was all
up. I spoke to my friend, the juryman, after my release,
and he told me that at 7 p.m., when the jury came back
the first time, he believed me innocent, but he was
talked into a conoiction before 10. He and one other
were the only two who held out for “ Not Guily,”
and he told me that he put up with more insults
during that 5J hours than he had during the preceding 12
months. One.bully, who wanted to convict before leaving
the box (mind you, it wasn’t so glaring as that) told him
that he couldn’t see a hole through a ladder and each of
the others asserted that his stupidity would be the cause
of their being locked up for the night. How many hur-
ried verdicts are the result of that threat? My friend is
a mild, inoffensive man, so I forgave him. Now what I
want is to give, the inoffensive man a chance to hand
in his own opinion, not the opinion of the bully
who sits alongside him. Discussing the evidence
amongst themselves flattens out the weak-willed men,
who, though possessing more intelligence, allow themselves
to be dominated by bullies whose lungs are stronger than
their perceptive faculties. Give me four loud-mouthed
ruffians and I will get the verdict every time. To
remedy this : box each juryman up by himself, give him
a reasonable time to consider the evidence—say from one
hour'upwards (no man’s liberty should be forfeited under
an hour)—and then let him hand out his opinion, and let
a substantial majority decide. This will give the mild man
a chance to send in the result of his own careful deliber-
ation on the evidence placed before him ; it will also do
away with that infernal threat of “ lock up for the night.”
I know lots of men who were brought in guilty at 10 p.m.
[“ Burglar Bill ” somehow recalls the story
of the pathetic old Irish lady charged
with shooting a bailiff, or some such trifling
matter. ;'Shie was grey-headed and unde-
fended* ‘My poor woman,” said the Judge,
sympathetically, “ have you not got counsel
to assist you?” “No sorr,” she replied, tremu-
lously. “ But plaze your Honor I’ve got a frind
on the jury.” The jury system can’t be changed
because “ Burglar Bill’s ” “friend on the jury ” is
a somewhat weak-minded gentleman. “Burglar
Bill ” should choose his friends with more dis-
cretion. No man, however timorous, would surelv
abandon an honest opinion of innocence ; though
he might be argued out of a dishonest one. The
essence of the jury system is the consultation that
it allows of. Only point on which “ B.B.” gets
home is the locking-up threat. It certainly is
scandalous —the way in which some judges bdlly
juries on that point.—Ed. B.]


“ Colocynth, M.D.” on a delicate matter :
I’m afraid the cry for a White Australia will
be largely discounted by an important factor little
known to the lay public. I refer to the wide-
spread desire among Australian matrons to interrupt
normal gestation. So largely, indeed, are measures em-
ployed for this unlawful purpose that hardly one |in 20
married women can be considered quite innocent of this
charge. And most bare-facediy do t'hese women appeal
to doctors for assistance, and, when the iniquity of the
request is pointed out by the physician, they are un-
feignedly surprised, and often leave him in great dudgeon,
with the statement that they’ll apply to someone less
squeamish. The birth-rate of Australasia is far below
what it should be, and the reason is apparent to the
members of the medical profession who are unable to
prevent the growing evil. Any doctor of experience
will substantiate these statements.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
A Handsome Cloth-bound Volume of oyer 300 pages.
The Best Collection of Short Stories and Literary
Sketches yet produced in Australia. Price, 4s. 6d.;
postage, 6d.
In the very same issue Melb. Argus which
chronicles the wearisome platitudes of the chamber
of Derham, Blyth and co., as to the “vicious
minimum wage principle having reduced the out-
put of the factories, lessened employment, and
driven away capital ” (7/10/’O2), that stodgy
journal remarked in a sub-leader that “the Vic-
torian factories have been fuller of orders of late
than ever they were before.” It might have gone
further, and mentioned that Victoria’s factories
had grown faster under the Factories Act and
minimum wage law than they ever did before.
The growth of the Vic. factories during the years
when they were being ruined by socialistic legisla-
tion was a most remarkable circumstance.
Hearne’s
THE FAMOUS REMEDY EOEI
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither, allows a Cough < r Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OP COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERT DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
Itis Cure.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —I ain writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the tyvo lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very bestthanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but'derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A ghild Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Viotoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vic.
"Mr. Hearne.—
‘‘Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER."
The Relative In England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearnii’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, l was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows :—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Tears’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—i remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Tears’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now Ido not feel safe to be withou
I Remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Tears’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS' CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes':—“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to fr.v Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
branch depot
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Offie e: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally .
The SMELTING
1901, Limited.
& REFINING CO. ofAUSTRAUA
WORKS: E>A.r*TO. XaCbl&o Ilitiwari-a (56 MILES FROM SYDNEY)
SMELTERS
AND
REFINERS
Off
SILVER
LEAD
BULLION
.
HSR
MAKERS 07
S. Go. of Australia
AND
‘ ILL AW ARB. A”
BHANDS OF
SOFT LEAD.
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
W. L. HOYT, Manager.
Assay Offices, Genera] Offices, Store and Sulphuric Chamber.
Highest Price paid for GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, and JEWELLERS’ SWEEP, &c.
For all information regarding Rates, apply to HEAD OFFICE, DAPTO.
B " Rudder & 00., -3=o Pitt Street, Sydney, Forwarding
Asenta.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
‘“BengeKs Food’
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
Foi* Infants, Invalids, and tho Aff&tf. Dslioious . Nuipjitwp. and inastibls
Berger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
b > find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Benger’s
Food ’ everywhere.”
“If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


Presents that will please
TH/TOU cannot possibly be disappointed by visit*
ing us, so come here whether you have
't 3 ' a definite idea of what you want or not.
We offer you the biggest variety and the most
reasonable prices it is possible to offer.
If you have not seen our new Catalogue,
ask us for one. If you live out of town
send us your name and address on a post-
card and you will get one by return mail.
No. F 4708.
Silver-plated
and Pearl
Bread Fork.
11 s 6d.
No. F3462.—Fine Leather, and Silver-
Mounted Pocket Book, 108 6d.
No. F 3939.— Gent.’B f. ilver Hair
Brush, 21s.
No. 374 A Silver-plated Tea Spoons
and Tongs, 10s 6d.
No. 363.—A1 Silver-plated Sugar Tongs,
3s 6d.
253.—501 id Silver Match Box, 103 6d.
Silver
Glove
Buttoner,
Is 6d.
No. 20.— Gent.’s Opal
King, 18ct. gold,
£4 10s.
No. E 8031.— Tasteful 9ct. Gold Bangle. £ll7s. 6d.
No. B4B9o.—Dia-
mond Ruby and
18ct. Gold Ring,
No. M.— 15ct. Gold and Opal Fly Brooch, £ 115 s,
No. 120.—15 ct. Gold, Diamond and Ruby
Brooch, £2 7s 6d.
No. 121A.—15ct. Gold Anchor Brooch,
£ll2s 6d.
No. E 6251.— Oct. Gold Bird and Heart
Brooch, 12s 6d.
15ct. Gold Heavy Band Bracelet, £4 4s. Smaller, £3.
3s
4
No. E 6659. —9ct. Gold Engraved Bracelet, £1 lTs 6d.
No. 193.—Links, Oct.
Gold, 15s 6d. 15c.
Gold, £llos. Silver,
4s 6d.
No. 197.—Links, 9ct. Gold,
£1 ss. 15ct. Gold, £2 ss.
Silver, 6s 6d.
No. E77o7.—9cfc. Gold,
Pearl and Turquoise
Lace Brooch, £1 Is.
Fine Diamond Marquise
King, £4O.
Xo. 241.
Diamond-set
Scarf Pin,
!
No. 240.
15ct. Gold
and Pearl
Pin, £1 ss.
No. F 6128. —Silver-plated Toast
Rack, 12s 6d.
No. F3s62.—Silver Cabinet Photo.
Frame, 16s 6d.
No. E 6444. Engraved
AX Silver-plated Napkin
_ Eing, 5s 6d.
No. E 8499.— Purse and Card Case,
4 Silver Corners and Lock, £1 Is.
No. 359.—Silver-plated Breakfast
Cruet, 13s 6d.
No. E7o72.—Silver
and Ivory Rattle,
13s 6d.
Fine Opal and 15ct.
Gold Heart, £5 5s
Smaller, 755.
Silver-plated
Spectacle
Case, 14s 6d.
KUTNOW’S
Improved effervescent carlsbab
POWDER.
|iilsch»nsprun& or Deer Leap
(ENTERED AT STATIONER'S HAUi\
KUTNOW’S
Improved effervescent carlsbad
POWDER.
Ulischangprung or Deer Leap
—London.
41, FARRUICMH ROAD. ££..•
REGISTERED TRADE MARK
(ENTCRFO at STATIONER S hall.\
, KUTNOW’S i
IMPROVED EFFCRVESCENT CARLSBAD
POWDER.
pliachenßprune or Deer Leap
mm
, H JARRWCDOIIROAD.LC.ir
xi+—P REGISTERED TRADE MARK ,
Wintered at stationofs
KUTNOW’S POWDER
Kutnow’s Powder assures a
perfect Digestion, and speedily
dispels Headache, Neuralgia,
Anaemia, Sleeplessness, Loss of
Appetite and Energy caused
by Imperfect Digestion and
Mal-Assimilation.
The work of removing the waste matters that result from
the digestive processes falls chiefly on the bowels, liver, and
kidneys. If these organs become disordered and inactive,
Constipation and Dyspepsia occur, and should they stop
working altogether for a few hours, death would result from
the accumulated poisons in the body. While these poisons
are not harmful when present in a normal quantity, they
propagate disease if allowed to accumulate in the system.
Perfect action of all these eliminative organs is therefore
necessary to keep the body in sound health. The gateways
of excretion must be kept free, and the filters must be clean.
This is now readily accomplished by using KUTNOW’S
POWDER, which cleanses and stimulates the Bowels, Liver
and Kidneys, and when deranged and sluggish restores them
to a strong, healthy, active condition. As the organs regain
their ability to perform their several functions, the blood
will become purer, the nerves stronger, the appetite keener,
sleep sounder, and the skin healthier. Headache, bilious-
ness, and drowsiness will vanish, and the entire body be
rendered stronger and more vigorous.
The use of “ liver pills ” in the treatment of liver dis-
orders may in most instances be compared to the whipping
of an exhausted horse when each application of the scourge
only tends to hasten entire collapse.
KUTNOW’S POWDER is an aperient in which the
drastic, lowering, and nauseous features of the ordinary
aperient medicine are entirely absent. It is composed of
the most curative, healing, and purifying constituents of the
European mineral-spring waters, scientifically blended with
other health-giving ingredients.
KUTNOW’S POWDER does for the Stomach, Liver,
and Kidneys what a course of physical exercise does for the
body ; that is to say, it puts it in the finest possible condi-
tion, and creates within the system a power of resistance
which practically renders the body proof against disease in
general and any epidemic in particular.
WASHES and STRENGTHENS
“The Infirmary, Ely, Cambs.
“Gentlemen, —Please be good enough to for-
ward me a large bottle of Kutnow’s Powder to
the above address, for which you will find Postal
Order.
“ Allow me to say that I think very highly of
the Powder; it must contain excellent properties.
“ I shall be most pleased for you to make any
use of my letter.
“(Nurse) CHARLOTTE SIMPSON.”
“5, Hesketh Crescent, Torquay.
“I enclose a P.O. for a bottle of your Kut-
now’s Powder. This is the third I have had, and
hope to have many more, as it has entirely cured
my indigestion, which caused palpitation of the
heart. “BERKELEY LUCY.”
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
See that the name KUTh'OW is printed
on each Carton in which the bottle
is packed.
THERE ARE FRAUDULENT IMITATIONS.
BEWARE OF THEM !
KUTNOW’S POWDER can be obtain-
ed in capsuled bottles from all
Chemists and Medicine Vendors. See
that the Registered Trade Mark,
" Hirchensprung ” (or Deer Leap),
and the autograph facsimile signa-
ture, “ S. KUTNOW & CO. (Ld.),” are
on the label and carton. ONLY
THESE ENSURE GENUINENESS- IN-
SIST ON “KUTNOW’S,” AND FIRMLY
REFUSE ANY SUBSTITUTES; THEY
ARE WORTHLESS AND OFTEN IN-
JURIOUS.
“6, The Parade, Bounces Road,
“ Lower Edmonton.
“ I am pleased to be able to tell you that I have
derived great benefit from the use of Kutnow’s
Powder, both for indigestion, biliousness, and
rheumatism, and am delighted to have found so
agreeable and efficacious a medicine, and shall
not fail to recommend it to patients and friends.
. . . Hope others will derive as much benefit as
myself from its use.
“ (Nurse) F. ROBERTSON, L. 0.5.”
“28, St. George’s Road, Aldershot.
“ This medicine (Kutnow’s Powder) was pre-
scribed for me last winter during an attack of
nervous debility and acute indigestion . . . with
good results. “E. MEDHURST.”
THE STOMACH, LIVER*KIDNEYS
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 FARRINCDON RD., LONDON, E.C.
Proprietors in U.S.A.: Kutnow Bros., Ltd., 853 Broadway, New York.
4—lo
, KUTNOW’S i
IMPROVED EfFOViSCSAT CARLSBAD f
POWDER.
Hiuchv»p{un& or Deer Leap
5?
4i nmNMmuLUrf ■
(LNTERED AT SmiONUPS HALL)
SSS
; KUTNOW’S •
IMPROVED EPrrRUESCENT CARLSBAD
POWDER, a
rtr
Sir;
Pljschw«pfuriaorDeer Leap
LC..+
REGISTERED trade
es m
{6N7c&wat nuimsaa,
KUTNOY/’S
'"'PowderT
1 or Deer Leap
OTTERED AT STATIOMSB'» MALLA


BSP
led
s£_l
IK
c of?
CORSETS
rmmwi
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark ” on band inside, as above.
GOOD HEALTH
implies freedom from physical
pain and disorder. It means
' strength, energy, power; power to
think well, work well, eat well, sleep
well. It means being “ fit,” fit for home
duties, fit for business, fit for pleasure,
fit for everything. It means money —money saved
and money earned. Indigestion destroys good healthy
It multiplies worries, breeds disease and fills the doctor’s
purse. Mother Seigel’s Syrup prevents indigestion and
cures it. It cures in Nature’s way, with Nature’s remedies
—the healing juices of roots and herbs from field and
forest. Its daily use is a guarantee of good digestion,
which is the foundation of good health. Says Mrs.
C. Barndon, 46, Lydia Street, Brunswick, Victoria,
Feb. 27th, 1902 : “ For two years I suffered martyrdom
from acute indigestion. I tried many different medicines, but got no
relief until I took Mother Seigel’s Syrup, three bottles of which com-
pletely cured me. I can now sleep well, my appetite is good, and I
can perform my duties with ease.” Beware of imitations.
MOTHER
CURATIVE
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s (Ltd.))
CIRCULAR-POINTED PENS J
Seven Prize Medals Awarded.
Neither scratch nor
spurt, the points
being rounded by a
new process.
Attention is also
drawn to their new
“CRADUATED
SERIES OF
PENS.”
bk your
Each pattern being made in jour degrees of flexibility and Points.
Storekeeper for an Assorted Sample Box of either series. Works : BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND
:&r©g
esenss
Coronation Spoon
A Special Treasure to British
People in Far-off Lands.
Size
of Spoons ;
4 3 /a&6%
In Solid Silver or Gold. Price from 8/-, post free. .Designed
and manufactured by Pearce and Sons, Silversmiths, Hud-
dersfield, England, by whom it is being sent to all parts of
the 'World.
olid
liver
gistoric Gift for 1902.
If you have an 1837 Souvenir of Queen
Victoria’s Coronation you know its
value, and will be anxious to secure
early the choicest Historic Souvenir
of KING EDWARD VII. This
registered emblematic spoon is a
new departure in souvenirs: a rare combination of the
beautiful, valuable, historic, and useful. No marriage
presents will be complete without a set of these emblematic
spoons. A gift for every Child of the Empire born rS
this Coronation Year. No Souvenir could be more highly
appreciated. Send for illustrations of Sizes and Irrices.
The Historic Bift of 1902.
Description —The Bust of the King, surmounted by His Crown
the reverse bearing the Rose, Thistle, and Shamrock —Great Britain and
treland ; these support the Royal Monogram, E.R. VIL, 1902, and are up-
held by Iris-like leaves, each representing one of our Great Possessions;
the leaves uniting form the Empire Stem. The Roots of this Empire
Plant run round the Royal Arms, the Emblem of our Constitution,
right into the Heart of the Peoples.
gpeGial Attention and Care given to
Colonial and Foreign Orders.
Colonials and those Abroad will affect a real Saving of Money in
purchasing direct from Messrs. Pearce & Sons. Send for their
Pictorial Price List of Solid Silver Novelties and High-Class
Presents.
PEARCE & SONS, Silversmiths , &c.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
c
«
*r_-
O
!f» fj
P
I*l
ii
0
N
T
19 1 02
a
R D N
/ 363431
The Cuckoo.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Evison sat scowling at the magazine in his hand,
inwardly cursing the howling rain that kept him
at home. He glanced across the room at his wife
reclining on her couch, and his scowl deepened.
He resented her plainness, the lines made by the
illness that had made her home her prison. His
gloomy thoughts travelled back. What a young
ass he’d been ! At twenty-four one is very un-
willing to die, and he had been very grateful to
the woman who had dragged him, by her devoted
nursing, from the very shadow of the Hereafter,
and thought it was something deeper. Their first
years of poverty haunted him still. Her ceaseless
illness had robbed her of her shadowy prettiness,
and drained away every penny he made. Now he
was fairly rich and wanted a wife, handsome and
young, to take about, and to fill his house with
people of the right sort.
He threw the magazine down. “What rot
they put in these things! The rain’s stopping.
I’m going out, Lucy.”
A shadow crossed the woman’s tired face.
“ Can you wait a little while, Frank ? ” she said
timidly; “I want to ask you something.”
“ Not that adoption business again ’—all right.
What is it?”
“I want to ask my cousin, Elsie Markham, to
come and live with us. The Markhams live in
Otago, and are very poor. I have not seen her
since she was a girl; she was very pretty then.
It is rather lonely for me all day, and I know it is
dull for you in the evenings.”
“Ask her, by all means ; you might have done
so long ago. Can’t stay any longer. Damn it!
Where’s my coat ? Ah ! Good night! ”
She still loved him and would see nothing but
the handsome, passionate youngster who would
not take her hesitating ‘* No ” only five years ago.
She had wanted to adopt one of those poor surplus
mites whom “kind ladies” escort to their early
graves; take it and save it and love it, but he had
absolutely refused her; spoke of hereditary crimi-
nals; and the motherhood in her yearned hope-
lessly.
* * « *
“ This is Elsie, Frank.” Evison started, having
forgotten the expected arrival. He had looked for
a gawky, countryfied girl, and here was the woman
of his dreams; tail, beautifully proportioned, with
almost olive skin —the red just showing through—
and blue-black hair.
She smiled at his evident amazement. “ Please
don’t turn on me, I’m very docile.”
Evison did not fill his house with people of the
right sort; he couldn’t think of any. He rarely
went out at night now, and his boon-companions
chaffed him for his sudden relapse into domestic
virtue. He was madly in love with the girl. And
she, hitherto chained by poverty to a bare exist-
ence in a little country town, found it Paradise
to her starved nature. He took her to theatres,
dances, and drove her everywhere. ■ He bought
her the pretty things a woman loves, laughingly
claiming his privilege of cousinship. During the
day she waited on Mrs. Evison, read to her, and
hummed about the house like a beautiful bird.
“ Frank is too good to me, Lucy ; and I often
think I should not let him do so much for me.
But, oh ! it is heavenly after that dreadful place.
Will you keep me always ? ”
“My dear, I hope you will never want to leave
us; my illness has prevented me being much of a
companion to Frank, and now he is pleased, I am
happy. Besides, I could not part with you now
for my own selfish sake.”
It was a happy year to the girl.
• * *
“ 1 can’t understand what has come over you,
Elsie,” Mrs. Evison said, looking down at the
girl, who was sitting on a cushion, her head
against the couch ; “you are so quiet now, and
you’ve lost all your beautiful color.” She laid her
hand on the other’s head. The girl winced.
“Tell me, little girl ... I know. You’re in
love, and ”
“ Oh ! no ! no ! ” and Elsie burst into tears and
hurried from the room.
That night Evison was late. He wanted the
dark to speak in. He went to his wife’s room.
“ Elsie wants to go away.”
“Go away ! Oh, Frank ! what shall Ido with-
out her? The poor child is worrying about some-
thing. Does she want to go home ? ”
‘‘No ! she has some friends in Sydney. I think
we’d better let her go. It’s a confounded nuisance,
though, as I must go to Melbourne in a day or two
on a business I can’t dodge. I’ll wire your sister
to come and stay with you.”
* * * *
“Isn’t he a little darling, Frank? It was so
good of you to let me have him, dear. It is
wicked, I know ; but I feel almost grateful to li is
parents for dying. But I did miss Elsie so much.
Won’t she ever come back ? It seems ages since
she went, and she writes so seldom. I cannot
understand her.”
Evison had a letter in his pocket, and he felt
reckless. Life was not worth living without her,
and she had refused to let him come near her since
the baby’s birth, and would not accept a penny
from his hands. “I’d drown myself,” she had
said, “only it would be too pleasant. I’ll give
my boy to Lucy, and suffer for my sin.” Well,
let her come, and see if she was strong enough to
repulse him. “Write and ask her again, Lucy,”
he said.
* * * *
The baby, rosy and lusty from his birth, gurgled
aud kicked in the invalid’s arms. The street-door
opened and shut. “ Now you will see the pretty
lady, babbie. Bring Elsie here, Frank ! Oh ! my
dear, I .”
She looked up; a nameless fear froze her
lips, and she turned to her husband. The woman
—a tigerish light in her eyes—tore the baby from
Lucy’s arms: “ Give him to me ! He’s mine ! ”
S. A.
G. ELBURG.
The ancient superstition that the Scotch-
man is the most canny man on earth is altogether
wrong. The Welshman, when careful, can knock
spots off Sandy. Waihemo County Council
(M.L.), recently finding itself in possession of a
full-blown Chinese leper, built him a nice, com-
fortable hut, and the ancient, diseased and
dilapidated premises which he had previously
occupied were ordered by the Health authorities
to be burned. The Council was just about to
arrange for the burning, when a Taffy councillor
arose and said it would be a pity to burn the
shanty down, as it would serve the leper for fire-
wood—he hated waste; and it was only the
difference between burning it gradually and
having one sudden blaze. A lot of the other
councillors were Scotch, and this appeal from the
Welshman got them down. So the Health
Department’s orders were disregarded, and the
old hut is ,to be used to warm the leper in his new
domicile.
A Church Parade.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was Sunday morning, and the column was rest-
ing. This was as it should be, seeing it was the
Day of Rest. For the previous five days the
column had been on the move, the main-body,
escorted by tired and footsore Tommies, doing its
weary two miles an hour. The flanks and rear-
guard, composed of mounted men, mostly colonials,
also did two miles an hour, keeping their allotted
distances from the main body. But the advance-
guard, five miles on ahead, had done various dis-
tances within the hour, and not always in the same
direction. This was accounted for by the presence
of snipers. But now the column was resting. It
had arrived at the place appointed for it, and now
awaited the signal, which was to announce that
“ the cordon was complete ” and the time to strike
had come. It would later have to show cause, in
turn with other columns, why the enemy had
escaped.
_ The 70-odd heavy ox-waggons are drawn up in
line, and the black, yellow, brown and brindle
drivers are lying asleep in their shade, or
cooking at dung fires. A few officers’ tents
are pitched here and there. The men have
erected shelters from the burning sun by means of
rifles, bridles and blankets, with a cunning born
of much practice. The guns are distributed in
likely places with their ugly muzzles pointing
skylinewards. Across a spruit a half-mile or so
away the horses, oxen and mules are grazing, the
latter shepherded by natives and the former by a
mounted guard. On the surrounding skyline
black dots, which sometimes move, denote out-
posts. Occasional shots tell that they and the
snipers are pelting nickel-plated lead at each
other—mostly at a safe distance. This relieves
the tedium of outpost duty and does no one much
harm.
* * * *
In the Bushmen’s lines a “headin ’em ” school
is in full swing. Visitors from Maorilanders’ and
J.L.H. lines help to swell it. On the outskirts
hang a few Tommies, whose mouths are agape at
the sums lost and won at a throw, “ Any part of
afiver’eads!” yells the “boxer.” “Two, four.”
“ Another quid’eads.” “ Your set, Bill.” “Fair
go; let ’em fly ! ” The pennies float upward,
and every head round the ring is raised, as a
chicken raises its head when drinking, as the men
watch the coins in their flight. “Two—outs!”
says Bill, and flings the kip down. And so it goes
on. Presently, there is a row. “ I tell yer I give
yer four quid; this bloke seen me!” “ Yer only give
me three, yer lyin’ cow ! ” They leave the ring to
settle it. Most of the players are too busy to
watch the go. But the pair are soon surrounded
by hangers-on and Kaffir “orderlies.” Bets are
freely made as to whether it was three quid or
four. After a few rounds and much blasphemy it
is decided that it was four.
* •# * •
“Fall in for church-parade in half-an~hour ! ”
yells the orderly sergeant. “ Now then, lads,
put them pennies away and get yer rifles cleaned.
There’ll be an inspection before parade.” This
announcement is hailed with a variety of
curses from the gamblers aud recumbent
figures along the line. The extemporised
shelters are pulled down to an accompaniment of
lurid blasphemy. A corporal, coming along the
line in search of a fatigue party to dig a grave, is
rushed by volunteers anxious to avoid the hated
farce in store for them. He takes six names down
and moves off. “Now then, markers, fall-in.”
The usual “ stripe-hunters ” spring to their places,
ground arms, and stand at ease. The rest fall-in
m a leisurely manner, cursing under their breath.
Arms are inspected by abored-looking captain who
has just been awakened. The men are marched
off to another part of the camp, where
the other regiments are formed up. A hollow
square is made, into which the chaplain presently
steps. The General and his staff and the O.C’s.
of regiments salute. The chaplain is a harmless-
looking little man, who seems to be in earnest and
quite unconscious of the incongruous position he
occupies and the illogical conclusions he arrives
at. He gives out a hymn, “Fight thegood fight,”
and leads off himself. Whether or no the audi-
ence can “fight the good fight,” there is no doubt
it cannot sing about it with any success, and he
finishes a hopeless solo. The men are then given
permission to sit down while he commences his
discourse, taking the text, “Praise be to
God, Who giveth us the Victory.” He
is very much in earnest, and his audi
ence is not. Two men are envying his easy
billet and fat screw in an undertone. A long,
vicious-looking, alleged bushman is relating an
episode with a Kaffir lady, in which he was the
principal actor, to an appreciative audience The
service comes to a close at last with the singing of
“God Save the Queen.” The Tommies in the
front line, with their officers’ eyes upon them, yell
lustily with much contortion of face. Those in
the rear ranks grin and keep silent. Salutes arc
again exchanged, and the parade is dismissed.
G.R.H
In a certain Australian seaport they were
farewelling a kindred soul, to whom, in the course
of the evening, a watch was to be presented.
This duty was to be performed by a retired
“salt,” who, when the time came, arose, and,
awkwardly dangling the watch from his fingers,
started in : —“ I have been called upon —that is—
it is with great pleasure that I—that we—that
you—that, er—er. It is with great pleasure that
we have met here to er—er. Oh ! here — take the
watch, and be done with it ! ”
“Kodak”: Whilst waiting for a friend
one Sunday morning, a derelict, with a watery eye
and other symptoms of rum, wandered up and
told me his tragedy, in a husky voice : “Ruined,
I was—years ago—be a (condemned) Chow ! In
a pub. one night, up Goulburn way, chap, down
on ’is luck, offered t’ sell me fi’-bob ticket in
Tatt.’s fer shillin’. I took it, an’ sold it t’ a Chow
next day fer two bob ! That ticket—my ticket-
won that Chow fi’ hundred quid. Ruined me.
Got a tray ? ” I passed him the coin, and watched
him down the street towards the back of the
corner hotel. A capricious fate, at that moment,
happened to send a prosperous-looking old China-
man down that very street to that very spot where
stood that very wreck, with the memory of the
old Chow’s perfidy rankling in his unworthy
bosom. The ill-fated Asiatic went down at the
derelict’s first hit, and I and several others were
only just in time to save him from utter demoli-
tion. Subsequent police-court proceedings gained
the wreck six months’ gaol, but they also revealed
the astonishing fact that he had, after many
years, revenged himself on the author of his ruin.
He couldn’t remember his Chinaman’s face, and
didn’t know him from Adam. Out of 300,000,000
Mongols he plugged one at a venture, and plugged
the right one.


Seasonable Symptoms.
DO
YOU
FEEL
TIRED,
WEARY,
OUT OF SORTS,
LISTLESS,
UNFIT FOR BUSINESS
OR THE WORK OF THE HOUSE
THE warm Spring weather has now arrived, bringing with it that tired, weary out of sorts
listless feeling, which unfits one for business or the wor.kof the household Winter with its
wet and cold, seeks out all the weak spots and leaves the blood charged with impurities th-
bowels clogged, and the liver sluggish. There is only one way to remedy this condition ’ Th-
whole system requires toning up, the diet regulated, and the digestive organs nut in
thorough working order. Bile Beans have ueen proved by long experience to be the very best specific
for this purpose, as they act in a gentle manner, stimulating the liver to proper action put the
digestion in order, clear the bowels of all waste matter accumulated during the winter months nn d
give tone to the system generally. ’
Miss Cecalia Monaro, formerly of Albury, now residing at 10 Lackey Street, St Peters Svdnev
writes : “Twelve months ago I began to suffer from intense depression, severe headaches and tired
feeling. For days I was utterly prostrated, hardly able to move, and in no wav capable of attending
to my usual duties, The most racking pains were in my head, and at times ‘i thought I would go
mad. My joints ached continually,, and I was very bilious. While living in Alburv I consulted
doctors, but their medicines failed to afford the slightest relief. For about six months I persevered
with their treatment, but it was of no avail, and I was if anything worse than ever I wasted awav
to a mere shadow, and my parents became alarmed at my condition. Seven months ago we came to
Sydney to live. One day a booklet bearing upon Bile Beans was placed under our door and I glanced
through it out of mere curiosity. I noticed the names of two or three friends of mine who testified
to the virtues of Bile Beans, and I determined to give them a trial, and was overjoyed after nearly
using a box to find a decided improvement in my condition. Six boxes completely restored me to
health, and those of my city and country friends who see me now are astonished at the
change. lam at present in the enjoyment of the best of health, and am vigorous in mind
ILE
FOIV
ILIOUSNESS
and body, can eat heartily, and in-
dulge in refreshing sleep. I have
not the slightest hesitation in de-
claring that my present health is
entirely due t.o Bile Beans, and 1
shall always have the greatest plea-
sure in recommending them to my
acquaintances. Every word which
I say can be substantiated by rela-
tives and friends in Albury and
Sydney.”
By purifying the blood and stimu-
lating the liver, stomach, and diges-
tive organs to proper action, BILE
BEANS are an undoubted cure for
Bi iousn S 3, Indigestion, Consti-
pation, Piles, Bad Blood, Pimples
and all Skin Eruptions, Head-
ache Debilify, Nervousness,
Anaemia, Summer Fag, and a
host of other ailments that owe
their origin to Detective Bile
Flow, Assimilation, and Diges-
tion, BILE BEANS are obtainable
from all Chemists and Storekeepers,
price 1/1 £ and 2/9 large box (con-
tains three times small size), or
direct from the Australian Depot,
BILE BEANS MAN’F’C C0.,38 Pitt-
street, Sydney.
A
m. /
N.
■v*
*i<-
**\
a
I
>
o.
*
SO
PEARS
To My Soul.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Be patient, Omy Soul; the prison bars
That check thy flight
Will break beneath the sun, or silent stars,
Some day or night.
Be still and wait; the Body seems to reign
In pride serene;
But darkly in its pathway crouches Pain,
With poniard keen. <
Grieve not when it is grieved, nor, when it errs—
’Tis naught to thee ;
Its sins and sorrows are but ministers
To set thee free.
Behold, it is a bondslave to the Earth
From which it springs ;
Its laugh is loudest in the Masque of Mirth—
It loves all things,
That make the world seem beautiful and gay,
But live not long—
The joy of springtime and the dawn of day,
Wine, Women, Song.
Red-tongued it rushes, like a hound unchained,
To hunt Desire;
But thou remainest still a proud, unstained
Spirit of fire.
It has no part in thee ; thou hast no mate
To share thy throne.
Thou art invincible, inviolate,
White and alone.
Dost thou not feel in rapt imaginings,
In dreams sublime,
The sovran sweep of thy immortal wings
Through Space and Time ?
The stars and suns whose magnitudes appal
Shall seem to thee
Like twinkling lights of some small port of call
Seen far at sea.
Be still and wait, O caged Immortal Bird !
Thou shalt be free ;
Not all in vain hast thou the voices heard
Of lives to be.
Be still and wait ! No Being that draws breath
Thy bounds can set;
Though God Himself forget thee, Faithful Death
Will not forget.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
Concerning Fires.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Very few people believe it possible to produce fire
by the friction of two sticks; yet fires were
burning in thousands of aboriginal camps when
the first white man landed in Australia. How
were they lighted ? The method, as described to
me by an old blackfellow, consisted in twirling a
hard pointed stick in a shallow hole in a parti-
cular wood, the hole being filled with dry powdered
bark. The stick was held upright between the
palms, and twirled rapidly by rubbing the palms
together. A gin knelt before the operator and
blew gently on the powdered stuff the moment it
began to smoke. It sometimes tired out a dozen
male operators before the fire came, but the one
gin waited to blow all the time.
A waggon wheel, turning on a dry axle, will set
it ablaze, and even weld the axle to the box. It
takes a tremendous heat to do that, and such heat
has been generated by friction. However, fire-
making by friction is a forgotten art, and had
probably been disused long ere the landing of
Captain Cook, for the blacks never travelled
without firesticks. Even to-day the fire-stick is
carried, swung gently in the hand to keep it
alight. Nor is the custom confined to the
aborigines. Many a hunter is seen on the .track
swinging his firestick from camp to camp. When
he sits down for a spell, he puts a few twigs on it
to keep it burning.
In the early days, when the blacks were bad,
diggers and others, striking across country to new
fields, left their fires at sundown, and went on for
two or three miles before camping for the night.
The blacks, attracted by the blaze, would often
gather round the abandoned fires, and throw in a
shower of spears.
The tramp makes at least two fires a day—one
at noon and one at sundown. The first—the
“ billy fire is a midget, to boil a drop of water
for tea. Even this is methodically built. He
places a stick the thickness of the forearm on the
ground, leans a few lighter pieces on it the width
of the billy apart; then between, and against the
back piece, he places a handful of dry leaves,
ferns, grass, or shredded bark, with twigs and
sticks on top to light it. The billy is planted
against it, and the fire fed with light wood until
the water boils. The “johnny-cake fire ” requires
a good armful of picked wood—iron-bark, box, or
gidgeafor preference—which is burning while the
dough is being worked up. The unburnt sticks
are then put aside, the coals levelled by stamping
them lightly, and the johnnies dropped on. A
blaze of good red coals is kept going at one side
where the johnnies, as they stiffen, are stood to
toast. The “ damper fire ” should burn all night,
so as to leave a heap of clean, hot ashes—not coals!
A few coals are raked over the top to keep the
heat in, but there must be enough ashes between
to keep them from burning the damper.
In a “working” camp a round excavation is
made for the oven to concentrate the heat and
shield it from the wind. Game is roasted in these
holes by travellers without an oven. A bird is
placed on a piece of doubled wire a few inches
above the coals, and a fire is made on a sheet of
tin laid over the top. Another way is to wrap
the dressed bird in a sheet of greased brown paper
and roast in the ashes. Cakes, eggs, chops
steaks, &c., can be satisfactorily cooked in this
camp oven.
At sundown, the bushman’s camp-fire is lit—the
most important of all, the fire that denotes home
For this he has a large back-log, and sees that
theres sufficient “big wood” on hand for the
night. In summer, he’ll be satisfied if the log
“keeps in,” and makes coals for morning. To
keep a fire in over-night, it is covered with
ashes. Glowing red coals will be found under
them in the morning, and it is only necessary to
throw on a few dry sticks to set the fire going.
Ihe best woods'for fire-purposes are box, coolabah,
grey gum, mulga, gidgea, forest oak, cypress pine,
ironbark and blackbutt. On a summer’s night*
mosquito fires are necessary adjuncts. They are
lit at intervals with cowdung, corkwood, green
bark and leaves.
In winter time the single fire is not a luxury.
Lying beside it you get half-roasted on one side,
while the other side is freezing. A fire at each
side is better. Those who are troubled with cold
feet light a third to keep them warm. Under such
circumstances it does not do to be fidgetty in one's
sleep. Many a one has been wakened by a blaze
a H 3 ?’ng his blankets, and I saw a man kick one
night till he got right down into his foot fire, and
but for a timely billy of cold tea would have been
incapacitated from walking for a week or two.
A man should know his “sleeping character”
before trusting himself among three fires. An ex-
horse-trainer, tramping out-back, was addicted to
steeplechase riding in his sleep. The nights were
cold, and he had to supplement his “feet-fire”
with side-warmers. At first he put two stakes at
each side of him to keep himself in ; but he
rode his dream-nags over these, and came a
cropper in the tire. So he had to be content with
one warmer, and to keep out of that he tethered
himself to a tree on the opposite side. He always
travelled alone. Any mate he picked up, as soon
as bed-time came, would pack and leave hur-
riedly, with the observation that, “A feller wot
ties himself up at night must be a bit cronk
m the upper storey.”
The blackfellow’s fire is the best. It is very
small, permitting him to lie close to it all night,
and to enjoy an even temperature. “White
pfeller big fool,” says Murri. “Him make um
big fire—can’t get close. By’n’bye fire go down
an white man catch um cold. No sense ’bout
dat.
Many travellers have a fatal habit of lighting
fires against the butt of a tree. No one can judge
how long a tree will take to burn down. A small
tree may burn for days, and a big one fall in a
few hours. I once saw a burning tree rain streams
of honey and melted wax. It was a small dead
ironUrk, in a projecting limb of which there was
a bv. o nest. As the fire roared up the hollow
1 1 link and burnt into the limb, the bees were
driven out, and tlte honey began to pour down.
We caught a lot in a billy, but it was so full of
melted wax, bee.-bread, and burnt bees as to be
unusable.
Another dangerous fire is the one built against
a hollow log. Apart from the danger of setting
the bush on fire, all manner of horrible things
come crawling out as the fire eats its way into the
hollows. A Barwon native, who dearly loved his
log-fire, used to surround himself with newspaper,
pinned to the ground. Snakes, Scorpions, and
centipedes make a great noise crawling over or
under dry paper; and, being a light sleeper, he
was always warned when danger approached. In
ant country he made a little trench round his nap-
ground, averring that no ant would cross it.
Bushmen are generally careful with fires; out
there are many whose carelessness has caused
enormous damage and loss of life. A few smoul-
dering embers are left by the track side, a wind
fans them up, carries a spark into the dry grass
and the result is a disastrous bush fire. The cul-
prit is frequently a new-chum, or an immigrant
from the Paroo country, where bush fires are
unknown. There is seldom any grass there to
carry a fire, and a sojourn in such a place makes a
man careless. Glass bottles, lying in dry grass,
with a hot sun shining upon them, have started
many a bushfire for which innocent swagmen have
been blamed. Note that bushfires are always
plentiful on very hot days.
, South Australians are the most careful people
in this respect—perhaps because the law is more
rigorous there than elsewhere. There, the wax
match is tabooed, and anybody seen carrying a
firestick would be chased as a lunatic, or arrested
by the nearest policeman for imperilling life and
property. Nearly everybody uses safety matches
—made in Germany—-and no one is allowed to
smoke an uncovered pipe in the august presence
of a wheatfield.
Anyone who has crossed the One-tree Plain, or
travelled on the Darling Downs, knows what
economical firing is. There he is fortunate if he
has the posts of a wire fence from which to break
splinters and little bits of bark. Failing this, he
boils Ins billy with tufts of grass and the bones of
a dea,d sheep. There is generally a strong wind
blowing; and the best way to light up is to face
the wind, holding the match low down and
striking it into the kindling material.
Lighting a fire in wet weather, when the ground
is soaked, and wood, leaves, and everything else is
sopping, is an art in itself. If there are any iron-
bark trees, blackbutts, or woollybutts about, the
task will be easy. Under the wet exterior there
are layers of dry, crumpled, highly-combustible
bark. Dry bits of bark may be found on one side
of gums and other trees; a few dry leaves and
twigs in hollow logs ; a bit of greased rag may be
procurable, and, as a last resource, take a bit of
th ® bagging with which your coat or vest is
padded. Splintered pine and mulga twigs are the
quickest fire-lighters m the bush.
A small fire in the tent, alongside the flap, is
cosy on a cold or wet night. A heap of short
sticks close by, a slush-lamp or a penny candle at
your head, two or three late papers to read, your
dog coiled against the coals, your pipe in good
going order—and not much is wanted to complete
your happiness.
Lighting a fire with the last match is a serious
task. No matter how careful you are. something
is sure to go wrong. There is bound to be a strong
breeze blowing, without intermissions; or else a
whiff springs up just as you strike. Then it may
°«T y a and s . moulder away, or the head will fly
All creation seems to be against that one
match. When you have a box full you can strike
them as off-bandedly as you like, even in a strong
wind, and you have to blow hard in addition to
put the match out. But what a little puff puts
the last one out! It snuffs out for no reason
whatever. You have your leaves, grass, bark, and
twigs all nicely and carefully nested ; you get
down on your knees, hold the bottom of the box
close to the nest, grip the match close to the head
with thumb and fingers, and strike gently off the
box into the finest grass—and 10 to 1 you’ll bump
it against something and put it out.
You can then sit down and meditate on the
dullness and dreariness that broods over every-
thing, and realise what a comforting friend and
companion is the camp-fire.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
Ifc has been discovered that in Victoria a
domestic servant can’t sue for wages because of an
insane Jaw rushed through in 1891, by which the
kitchen Bridget is not an “employee,” nor is she
made anything else instead of an employee, so
legally she isn t anything. And Victoria has an
Upper House which is supposed to check hasty
legislation ! When the Victorian Bridget gets the
sack there is nothing for her to do now but take
out her wages in breakages.


Weak and Nervous
Loss of Appetite. Indigestion. Impure Blood. Severe Headaches.
An Easy and Prompt Cure.
r ? r- V*! * •
<XjTi
«5!5,
§SS?
iSS
Mrs. Marian Pascoe, of Christ-
church, New Zealand, sends a photo-
graph of herself and little boy and
says:
“I had indigestion very badly.
My food rested heavy on my stom-
ach. I lost my appetite and rapidly
grew weak. My blood became im-
pure and I had almost constant
headache. I was so nervous I hardly
knew what to do. A friend sug-
gested that I try Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla, which I did, and only a few
bottles made me strong and hearty
again. My little boy began to .com-
plain, said he was all tired out,
could not play, nor do anything.
He lost his appetite, and grew weak
and languid. I tried the Sarsapa-
rilla on him also, and he was soon
perfectly well.”
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
When you lose your appetite, when your food distresses you, and when
your nerves are weak, you may know that severe disease is not far away.
Taken in time, the cure is easy and prompt. You must strengthen your
digestive organs, purify your blood, and put your whole nervous system into
better condition. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will do this for you every time. And
it will give to languid and thin children the energy and vitality natural to them.
Experiments are dangerous. Avoid imitation Sarsaparillas. Insist always
upon getting Ayer’s, the oldest, strongest, best Sarsaparilla.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Makes the Blood Rich and the Nerves Strong
Constipation, biliousness, sick-headache, all cured by Ayer’s Pills.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK; Price, 4s. 6d
A Handsome Cloth-bound Volume of oyer 300 pages. The best
collection of Short Stories and Literary Sketches yet produced in
Australia. Price, 4s. 6d., postage 6d. Wholesale : Edwards,
Dunlop and Co.
LIST OF CONTENTS.
Postage 6d
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane,
COH JU RING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
plays t::: ,oeu °
French’s Acting
Rare Books
French Novels
Books iZ Married
l£xtra Special Catalogue of
Boohs Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL AUDRADi
BOOK sind MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
©RATEFUE—COMFORTING.
COCO A
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
DON’T MISS THIS
OPPORTUNITY, if you are suffering wif>h WEAKENING,
NERVOUS, and DEBILITATING Diseases. Our CON-
CENTRATED BOTANIC REMEDIES will CURE YOU.
So CONFIDENT are we of this that we will send to any
sufferer a TRIAL COURSE (Free of Charge) and idtide
by the RESULT. Send NOW and your ultimate CURE
is CERTAIN. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
o*l WS
I .''OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos r iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no Action. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieme in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Mverywhere, In Boxes, Is and 12s 9d each.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL, you enjoy your lunch
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
Single Room, with Full Board, Bs. per
day, or £2 2s. per week.
TERMS. The convenient
system of paying- for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms ; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp l —from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.30 —from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medisines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East.
THE BROWNSEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
The Bulietin Reciter; Price 5s-
By Eighty (80) Bulletin Bards. With Illustrations by
“Hop,” N. Lindsay, A. J. Fischer, F. Leist, D. H.
Souter, and 11. McCrae. In handsome Cloth, decorated.
Price, 55.; postage, Id.
LIST OF CONTENTS
Postage 4d.
Thk How - We - Beat - the -
Favourite Affliction ...
Gig Fours
Don't Let the Moth Get Tn
The Winner‘of the Squat-
ters’ Cup
The Three Roads
Christmas Belle
My Mate Bill
What tile Bottle Said ...
A‘German Lament
The Anarchist
The Fall of Patrick
Dooley ... ... ....
The .Tester of the Damned
The Hairy Man of Koora-
watha ...
A Big “Bust”
A Tight Corner
The Road to Wyoming
-Tim Jamieson, of Tringabar
The Mallek Fire
Among the Palms
Dreams and Deeds ...
Boko ...
Dunno ! ”
The Fat Man and the War
The Shoe
The Cooky’s Handy Man ...
Bashful Glkeson
SkeEta
The Currency Lass...
The Confidential Jockey
How We Won the Ribbon
A Twisted Idyl
The TudS of Simpsonville
The Sick\Cab-Rider
Tambaroora
Father Riley’s Horse
O’Toole and M‘Sharry ...
Faces in the Street
The Bush Missionary
The Last Bullet ...
The Honeymoon Train ...
The Murdeiu-Nigii'l!
A Scotch
M. M. O' Donnell
“ McG."
T. A. Wilson
Frank Bellman
Victor J. Daley
‘ ‘ John Carew ”
G. 11. Gibson
E. J. Brady
“ Bendee ”
Arthur H. Adams
E. J. Dempsey
J. 11. Greene
“ Tom Freeman ”
■ Edward Dyson
C. H. Souter
Evelyn Threlfall
“Pan”
C. H. Souter
“ Hesketh”
E. J. Dempsey
“ Gurlew ”
Bernard Espinasse
“ Magnet”
J. M. L.
‘ ‘ Ben Sun ”
Edward Dyson
Barcroft Boake
Roderic Quirm
Francis Kenna
Will H. Ogilvie
FrWtik Morton
W. T. Goodge
Edmund Fisher
“ Bendee ”
A. B. Paterson
Thomas E. Spencer
Henry Lawson
W. T. Goodge
John Farrell
A. G. Stephens
Hugh M l Crae
Will H. Ogilvie
Sole Distributing Agents —
Dufilop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.


SYDNEY
Rubber Works
MANUFACTURERS OF
Sheet Rubber,
Washers,
Valves,
Gas Tubing,
Rubber Rings,
Rollers,
Buffers,
and Every Description of
Mechanical Rubber Goods.
Works:
CAREY STREET, off Birkenhead Road.
City Office:
PERDRIAU & CO.
270 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles'. Fully warranted.
aS§Stsfi2.lo t0£5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any Port in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using zjd. Stamp. Address Dept 346 D
/I lead Cycle Co.
Chicago .
U.S.A.
f*r| YEARS EYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
*W. G. EL3DEIDGE & CO.,
DYERS <& CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
v opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
For all Services kept in Stock.
SeudL for Cata.logu.o»
Spoons, Forks, gSTS
pocket-Knives & Scissors cutlery
wArttv-
ilia
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Propes., SHEFFIELD.
At the Showroom*—
Empire Chambers, 93 York-St.
SYDNEY.
AISO AT
“THE BLOCK,*’
Gollins-st.. MELBOURNE.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
&
&
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.'
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers— M. BEETHAM & SOM, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND.
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
DINNEFORDS
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
[DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
—Mlfg
MAGNESIA
Parke & Lacy Co. ltd.
Write for Prices and Particulars of
■M
Knowles Steam Pumps
Best Value. Highest Efficiency.
A Large Stock of Pumps suitable for every
kind of service ready for immediate delivery.
60 Clarence-st., Sydney, and
533 Collins-st., Melbourne.
i
Sufferers from Deafness or Head Noises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should’write to The L. R. VERNON CO
60 HHNTER ST., SYDNEY, for pam'-
,pirlet describing an entirely new self-
applied method which we will send nost
free on mentioning this paper.
H. P. CREGORU S CO.
Machinery Merchants,
Melbourne & Sydney.
HAVE IN STOOK-
Blake's Steam Pumps.
Fays Woodworking Machinery.
Mundy’s Hoisting Engines-
Empire Oo.’s Laundry Machinery-
American “All Steel” Pulleys-
Harris Champion ” Lubricating Oils.
Mason Reducing Valves-
Ludlow Sluice Valves-
Korting’s Injectors and Ejectors-
Tanite Emery Wheels.
Skins Soft& White
BY USING
o*
ilAi
Complexions Preserved
BARE.
BOOKS
FRENCH,
ENGLISH,
GERMAN,
2/-
Largest Catalogue, with
Specimen Photo. Apply
Box 116 Paris.
RAND DRILL CO.,
NEW YORK.
Manufacturers of
AIR COMPRESSORS
of New and Improved Design.
LITTLE GIANT & SLUGGER ROCK DRILLS
Stocks kept by
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
Sole Agents . 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Henry Skinner,
Glarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No, 10/A w^CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and _ most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets ami
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
JMggg
i ■ n
HJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITOR&
„.^ l:^ p OLE’S GEORGE HOTEf, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Gable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
