

McE WAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY
IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE.
' ■ ... ■ c.. .*« .■ - •. .■■ ■ ■■}■
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
4
Cad
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity,”
The Lancet.
R. C 35-. WATKINS OO ,
107 Kent; Street, Sydney,
mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers™ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
1
ns
SOLE AGENTS
The Perfect Motor Vehicle. Driven by Steam.
Climbs any hill. No Noise. No Smell. No Vibration.
Manufactured by the jCbcomobile Co. of America.
In Stock and to Arrive. Send for further particulars to
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO aj 85 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S.W.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful "Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
compr sing Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried in vest
po'ket and blown out to life-size (causes roars of
laughter), Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket, Book of
Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin and Card
Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character), The Mafelcing Grub (or
nerve-strengthen’er), and, last of all, that side-splitting
Look and Laugh Glass, Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
Box 3, G.P.0., Haymarket.
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO ,
710 Geortre-sfcreeb, SYDNEY.
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
LU
<
cr
t*
m
i
K 3
HOBARX.
ffiz, —
fiadlegs Orient fiotel.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Grade).
J. A. TURNER - - Proprietor.
perfect
■WATERI
ASSISTS
(DICE. ST 101
SHOULD
jBE]
I C E D
PENFOLD’S WINES.
Grand Champion Prize of Australia at Melbourne, August 22, 190^
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2% 3 3J 4 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
-/7 ~/9 -/10J 1/- 1/2 1/6 1/11 2/8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 2/11 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWiCI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
lfnitations.
THE EDISON - a SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Building's, Edvvard-st., Brisbane
Mining and Dredging Plants.
wm
Fowler Traction Engines.
Engines, Boilers,
Bs
o
hr;
>~
©•
&
cs
CK
L&J
Ul
o
Ui
Dessicating Plants.
Waggons, &c.
m
PROOF
Qn eY.Js
USE
Head
: i
i
-
The Lancet states:
“A SOUND, HONEST BRANDY, which
our analysis and examination show
to be of a FRAGRANCE, PURITY and
QUALITY SECOND TO NONE.”
m
A NICE PRESENT
The New Combination PIN
CUSHION, THIMBLE & REEI
HOLDER, nickel plated, plus:
top. Clamps on to any tabl
by means of a spring-. Price
only 2s. ; post free.
Star Novelty Company
229-231 Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
HPHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
i-houwby tram. Billiards, etc.
KEROSENE GAS STOVE insist
ettmg a noiseless
JUPITER
The Very Latest
Invention.
Burns Noiselessly,
Without Smell
or Smoke,
Perfectly Safe,
Obtained First Prize
wherever exhibited.
Stocked by all Leading Hardware Merchants and
Storekeepers.
Sole Agents for Australasia —
Nelson and Robertson,
17 LOFTUS ST., SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Voi- 23—No. 1178. j
[Saturday, September 13, 1902.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper^


THE LATEST BOOKS
THIS WEEK’S MAIL.
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
■
Wister (Owen), The Virginian, 2s 6d & 3s (id, postage 6d.
Imperial Yeomanry Training, 1902, Bd, p, 2d.
Norris (Frank), M‘Teague, 2s 6d & 3s (3d, p. 6d.
New Fairy Tales from Brentano, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Stables, ABO Guide to Health, Is, p. 3d.
Hales (A.G.), M‘Gluskv, 2s «d & 3s 6d, postage Od.
Walker, Aerial Navigation, fle., p. Bd.
Clinton, Electric Wiring, Is 6d, p. 3d.
Davidson, New Book of Kings (enlarged edt.), Is 3d, p. 3d.
Meyer, F. 8., Samuel, 2s Od, p. sd.
Send to us for any Boole or Magazine you require.
li e are always pleased to smewer Inquiries.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
The representative book of Australian humor—
STEELE RUDD’S
“ On Onr Selection,”
Second impression now ready. Price, 6s. Bd.
post free from The Bulletin office.
The Australian Sailorman’s Book—
E. J. BRADY’S
“Ox Slays of many maters.”
A rattling collection of Sea Chanties. Prioe,
ss. 3d. post free from The Bulletin office.
AUSTRALIA’S^—
SWEET SINSER.
Victor J. Daley's “At Dawn and Dusk,”
handsomely bound, makes a fine presentation
volume to friends abroad. Post free from Bul-
letin office, ss. 4d„
IFor tlxe LUKro-S, tlie TH:R.OA.X, the VOICE
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs ! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
]}. The Trachea or windpipe.
C- The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUN®-,
and
Invaluable to
SIN GEES
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Blistered)
. . Contain JVO </>eain<; or othh-r pi)'!.sonoas dr,n<j . ® '
LL CHEMISTS, in Tins, 1s 6d ; from the Proprietor, O. HUDSON- Chemist Ipswlcfi OueenoUm*
receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and ? '.JUEEN’S PLACK, and PKLTON, (HUMVVADF P
[■ne, Agents. ‘ “ GO.,
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, in Tins
free on
Melbour
THE 11ED PAGE.
A Melba Night.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ 'VT'OU will have to be at Co vent Garden
| half-past six if you want to get in—it
a Melba night! ”
Patti makes her appearance at long intervals a
the vast Albert Hall, and delights an adoring aud
Once with that wonderful voiceof hers. Wonderfi
is the word, for watching the tiny figure on th
little platform, down at the centre of that grea
crater of humanity, one’s first sensation is of won
der. How does that little, youthful, sprightl
figure, with the airs and graces of a gir
of seventeen support her age with so marvellou
an art, and produce her splendid surviva
of a voice with such exquisite perfection ? Bu
not all Patti’s art, and the keen pleasure tha
velvet voice thrills you with, can keep from th
background of your consciousness something lik
a panic. There is such excessive care in her sing
ing that one feels that she is at her highest pitch
one effort more and she will break down. As she
trips on to the platform, a little old-young figure
robed in diamonds, and smiles her quaint, pleasoc
smile at the human whirlpool of which she is the
centre, you think, “ This time she will break ;she
cannot reach that note ! ” But no; she sing
again and again ; the years pass on, and Patti i
as perfect as ever. But it is art, not voice.
At half-past 6 I was at the Covent Garden
Theatre, ft is one of the few big theatres ii
London ; the rest are drawing-rooms. In the lan
leading to the amphitheatre (2s. (>d.) —l had no
taken one of the eight-guinea boxes that night—
was the usual queue of waiting people, two anc
two, marshalled the length of the pavement b’
two policemen. I moved to the end of the “tail.’
In a few minutes, however, I had become a join
in the serpent, much nearer the head, and every
minute new arrivals lengthened the queue. Ther
was no crushing. English people are patient, anc
do not push.
At lust, there was a surge forward as the human
serpent began to writhe up the winding stairs. I
took the reptile 30 minutes of spasmodic progres
sion to get to the box-office. When my turn
came, I was told “ Standing-room only.” It was
a Melba night.
I found a rail to hang over, ,'t tho extiwme top
corner of the big building. Below me were tiers
and tiers of boxes, slowly tilling with bediamondec
women and spectacularly uninteresting men—one
man to every three wotnen. By leaning danger-
ously over, I caught a glimpse of the distant stage.
It was like looking for the bottom of a well.
Behind me was the crowd, wedged into the pas-
sages. Half of them were quite unable to see
the stage at all. But they did not go away.
Several sat calmly on the stairs, out of sight of
everything, and listened. They had come to hear
Melba. The opera was “Faust.” Plan 9011 was
Mephistopheles—without the impressive stage ap-
pearance of Lempriere Pringle, and with a ges-
ticulation somewhat too Gallic to convince, yet
with a marvellous voice. Saleza was Faust, his
tenor voice in the concerted music ringing true
and clarion-clear.
. But the Marguerite of Melba? touch a homely
little body; such a pleasing, piquant face ! A
figure verging a trifle towards the matronly, yet
so only to the supercritical. A powerful singer’s
neck—short and ungraceful. But the face was so
pleasing, the expression altogether so charming !
And the voice! One imagines a great organ, a
soprano Clara Butt, vast sonorous notes that
flood the big auditorium and compel the hearer’s
instant submission. But it is not like that.
Melba’s voice is small and light; yet every pulsa-
tion of it soars through the great building. Her
whispers float to the ceiling, wing to the utter-
corners of the crowd. And it is of such an inti-
mate, soft, caressing quality ! Sweet as honey,
charged with femininity, it is the embodied soul of
womanhood. And it comes from her little figure
with almost a contemptuous ease. In the jewel-
song she was happiness articulate. There was no
effort, no care for effect: she sang because she
must. It was more than Art.
Of the splendid stage-effects, the crowd that
streamed in for the choruses, the perfection of the
vocalists and orchestra, I may not speak ; they
served but as a bodyguard for this homely little
woman with the greatest voice in the world,
moving quietly through the tragedy, flinging out
her soul in song.
London.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
A New Religion,
THOSE people who made the mistake of re-
garding Elijah 11. Dowie, the man with
the Purple Wings, as too absurd a fraud
as ever to be taken seriously, and now hear
wonderingly of Zion city, should hasten to give a
cordial preliminary welcome to the latest new
religion. This hails from the Argentine .Republic
(which evidently envies Australia its Dowie). Its
platform is set down in the following “open
letter,” circulated in MS. (the new religion evi-
dently doesn’t run- to a printing press yet):
Open Letter to General William Booth, Salv. Army,
101 Queen Victoria-st., 101, London, E.O.
Concordia, E.R., Argentine, June 24, 1902.
Brother in Christ!
I hereby, inform you that to-day I have resigned my
commission as ensign in the Salvation Army, after nine
years of work in your forces.
I call on Brigadier Maidment and all my comrades to
witness that I go out clean.
The Lord Jesus calls me forth to follow Him as an
outcast and a tramp, without'acent. in my pocket, with no
other home than the King’s highway and the Father’s
heart. My rest for each night shall be the poor man’s
hut, or the open field, as they were my Master’s.
But I go forth in the name of the Lord, and in His
strength.
Christ the Lord has sent me,
Through the midnight lands
Mine the mighty ordination
Of the pierced hands.
Moreover, the Lord calls me forth to raise up unto Him
an army of 144,000 tramp apostles, like unto myself, will-
ing to follow the Lamb whithersoever He goeth, that
would as soon think of burdening- their warfare with
home, wife and children as you would of getting drunk,
Men of God, taking their stand with the Lamb on Mount
Zion, and in whose mouth no guile is found.
Our “ Rules and Regulations ” you will find in the 9th
chapter of Matthew ; our Sacraments—the cold and heat,
the hunger and thirst, the weariness of the homeless
train]), and the lowliness of Him who had not where to
lav His head ; our uniform—the tramp’s “coat of many
colours.”
And now listen, O General of the Salvation Army :
I “ft “P mv hand to Him that liveth for ever, and swear
that I shall fight it out to a finish, on these lines.
And when you see me and my sons and brethren, the
apostles whom the Lord will raise up unto Himself, by
His Spirit, turn into “cosil.v-furnished quarters” and
snug- barracks,” you may then write on our work what
you ought to write on your headquarters and vour hat-
bands : namety, (t Ichabod.”
ci.* « a ll-° r ,',- vou pother in Christ, your Commissioners,
j .> tield and bile, and all other Christians : Come out
and follow me, even as I follow the Master, on the wallaby
track, according to the royal law of the apost.e, forth to
the conquest of the world for Christ.
. fche five continents I proclaim : The time is
tulhded, the Kingdom -s come, and the Lord is at hand.
Vours in Christ, the Apostle of the Lord,
Paul Beffen.
The Tramp Apostles ” ! That sounds good for
a start. But Paul seems to have forgotten the
collection. Christianity without a collection went
out of fashion more than 1800 years ago. Paul
must look to that point.
The Mugs and the M. ammonites.
A CAREER of engaging' impecuniosity,”
says 1 mefo, “ usually begins with a
brief and disastrous experience on the
btoek Exchange or the Turf.” It is a
fact that the victims of the bookmaker and the
company-promoter are very often of the “ en-
gaging ” type—young men of “blood” who have
no brains for any profession, and so reckon they’d
best pick up a fortune backing winners or buying
Stocks for a rise ; the struggling clerk, or doctor,
or lawyer, or clergyman (sometimes), whose ambi-
tions are greater than his talents, and who sees in
speculation a safe high-road to fortune* Its
largely the best fellows in the world ” who are
ruined on the Turf or on ’Change, the men
who haven t an atom of cunning, and only
that clangorous modicum of brains which gives
a man that degree of self-esteem, which is pardoned
as manly, and a hazy idea that the capacity to
make 100 runs at cricket, or sing a godd song, or
score 38 in a break on a billiard table must tell in*
the game of money-making. These are the
. ouigs the class on whom the men of
Mammon fatten. The other great class of
victims is made up of those who go on
the highway to rob and are robbed. It’s
some consolation to a world, which sees, in
that vitally important part of life, money-making,
the great natural law of the survival of the fittest
seemingly so rudely flouted, that the sharks do
not spare one another, that the “ bookie’s” ulti-
mate fate is generally to be broken by other
bookies, and that Bear often succumbs to Bull
and Bull to Bear.
It is not possible for “mugs” to learn from the
experience of others. No man can ever be taught,
except m the school of misfortune, that that lack
of qualities which makes him an unsuccessful
doctor, or lawyer, or tradesman will, with almost
mathematical certainty, make him an unsuccessful
speculator : that, even by dabbling in speculation,
what possibility there is of gain has to be seriously
discounted by the certainty of loss through the
diversion of energy from his real business in life.
(There is nothing so enervating as gambling. It
saps at the roots of a man’s vital force more surely
than does drug-taking.) But the man with the
bent that way can’t be kept from gambling by the
sight of the skulls on the path : he must go his
way to learn his lesson from personal experience.
If it were possible to warn off the foolish, “ The
Critic Black Book.” published in England by Mr
Henry Hess, would surely have that effect. Mr
Hess edits the newspaper called the Critic, and he
is possibly not exactly a financial Sir Galahad
Perhaps, however, that gives him a better chance
of usefulness as a financial critic. Mr. Hess
“ Black Book ” is an exposure of “ ramps ” on the
Stock Exchange of London, and for 1901-2 he has
certain appendices, to bring it up to date, as far as
possible, with the transactions of the year. A
valuable section of the book gives lists of company
promoters, with their promotions and their fate.
Mr. Whitaker Wright, for instance, between 1894
and 1900 promoted 40 companies, of which the
fate of almost all was to be reconstructed or liqui-
dated.
But the most characteristic part of the Black
Book is its “histories of companies.” To take a
sample—an Australian mining company whose
name it is not necessary to quote here. This
company was founded nearly half a century ago,
and had a blameless if impecunious career for
many years, until, in 1889, it became an instru-
ment in the hands of the editor of a leading
.London financial paper and was “ reconstructed,”
the editor and his friends holding most of the
shares. The editor began to boom the co. in his
paper, in articles, in “answers to correspondents,”
and so on. Almost every issue there was
advice, to more or less genuine inquirers, to buy
the shares, which Mr. Editor industriously un-
loaded. He and his friends had 155,085 shares
originally. By 1889 they had got their holding,
down to 2720. Prices for the shares had fluctuated
from Is. to 2s. 3d. Later, when the editor had stood
from under and boomed the show no more, stock
dropped down to 3d., and subsequently the co.
was “reconstructed.”
And that sort of thing is simply part of the
business of mining speculation. It is a poor sort
of promoter who doesn’t own or influence one or
two “leading financial papers ” to boom anything
that he has to unload. And these “leading
financial papers” are the guides to which the
“ mugs ” turn when they set out to make fortunes
by speculation !
♦
Mr. H. B. Higgins, M.P. for North Melbourne,
has published as a pamphlet (through the Advo-
cate newspaper, Melbourne) his recent address,
“The Duties of Patriotism.” It is not too much
to say that the publication should be in the hands
of every political student in Australia, for we
know no more able and succinct statement of the
case against unreasoning Jingoism. Discussing
first the dictum, “My country right or wrong,”
Mr. Higgins, following closely on the lines of
argument of Mr. Herbert Spencer, shows its in-
herent immorality. He refers to the recklessness
with which wars are made:—
It has struck me as curious to see what precautions we
take in the law courts in trying prisoners before we punish
them—what strict evidence we require of their guilt—-
and yet how slender is the evidence which one nation
demands before it seeks to punish with death, of with
subjugation, the people of another nation. There is
ictually more care taken before punishing- a resident of
Bilking-square for larceny, than in making up our minds,
from a perusal of the newspapers, that our Government
ought to make war. Someone, we do not know who,
prints something in a newspaper— false news, perhaps, like
the news of the massacre at Pekin, or like the news of the
secret will of Peter the Great. This is probably extracted,
with embellishments, from some other unknown source ;
and we find two nations presently engaged in a deadly strug-
gle. When Bismarck wanted to work up the Germans to war
with the French, and the French to war with the Ger-
mans, he deliberately got falsehoods, false telegrams, etc.,
inserted in the newspapers, and the tide of feeling on
both sides soon became irrepressible. This difficulty,
arising from a public credulous, and a press courting sen-
sation, popularity, circulation, money, is one of the
greatest difficulties of modern politics—one of the greatest
hindrances to peace and to social development.
Then follow various historical examples of wars,
now generally acknowledged as wicked and
needless, in which England has engaged—the war
against the Dutcli (Charles IT.), the war
against the French (William II.), against
the French (George II.), against the American
colonies (George III.), against the young
French Republic (George III.), the Opium
war against China (Victoria), the Crimean war
against Russia (Victoria), the Zulu war and the
Afghan war in the same reign. Mr. Higgins
points out that all those wars had their opponents
in England when waged ; and that from Chatham
down, down, down to Chamberlain, almost every
English public man of note has opposed some war
or other. It is only the modern hoodlum press
which insists that it is the duty of patriotism to
support every war which it howls for.
Edmund Gosse on Dumas (a different opinion,
it will be noted, to that of a recent Red Page
contributor): —
The French discover a certain puerility in our English
attitude to the elder Dumas. ... To glance at the
French criticism of to-day is to be obliged to recognise
that Dumas does not exist any longer fpr serious readers
in France, except as the author of such interesting plays
as “ Henri 111. et sa Oour” and “Antony.” . . . The
popularity of Dumas lias entirely ceased among edu-
cated people in France, and he takes his place
with Eugene Sue and Paul de Kock as a kitchen-
classic, as one of the purveyors of mechanical
entertainment for uneducated minds, without moral,
intellectual, or philosophical aim whatsoever. .. .
There can he little doubt that native criticism has gone
too far in reaction against the immense popularity of
Dumas. But when one roads the crude and childish
laudation of him in English newspapers and. magazines,
one is tempted to endorse the worst that the French can
say. It is a negation of all the principles of literary taste
to prefer this exuberant iinprovisatore, this author of
interminable visions without dignity and without reality,
to the noble figures which surround him on the stage of
his own time, and tower more and inpre steadily above him.
. . . It is astonishing that this rampageous elderly school-
boy can he taken seriously by grown-up people. . . .
This, perhaps, is not a very gracious way of talking about
an amiable colored gentleman on the hundredth anniver-
sary of his birth. But it is the fault of his English
admirers, who thrust him down our throats as if iu him
alone resided all the law and all the prophets. It is a
chapter of Mr. Lang’s “Essays in Little” which has
soured my temper. The exaggeration and the exclusive-
ness of the critic are past belief. In the course of this
essay I learn that the writings of Dumas exist “ for the
sorrow of prigs.” It is vexing to be called a prig, simply
because one does not join in a ohorus of tempestuous
eulogy round a sportive old quadroon, who chattered
gaily away in 1200 volumes of irresponsible romance. . . .
Where we see Dumas best of all—if one who does not
pretend to have read a quarter of his immense pro-
duction may venture to say so—is in the trilogy which
tells the ever-fresh, the ever-amusing adventures of those
Three Musketeers, who were Four. This, surely, is
Dumas’ greatest achievement in romance, the one perfect
flower of his dream of the legendary elegance and ardour
of French aristocracy. . . . But in all other matters the
talent of Dumas is quite of a secondary order. Mr. Lang
admires his pathos, and attributes to him “ great tears
like those of Pantagruel.” They are like those of Panta-
gruel, hut what a confession of rodomontade it is to
boast of the size of tears, as though they were marrow-
fats or marbles! All is on a Rabelaisian scale in the
career of Dumas ; he is Hercules and Goliath and Sar-
danapalus. But the finest art is not produced bv strong
men in country fairs, who wipe away with the' back of a
hairy hand,as M. Parigot admiringly puts it, the sweat that
beads the enormous forehead. Let it be sufficient praise
for Dumas that if he only wrote books for boys, still these
are the best boys’ books that ever were written. He may
still be praised, without reserve, by critics of from 13 to
17 summers. But of the influence" of this amiable gian t
on literature what is to be said ? Merely this : that it has
been detestable and fatal. The merits of Dumas—his
national sentiment, his gaiety, his exuberance—have
been neither imitated or perceived, but his example has
flooded our literature with facile and ridiculous “his-
torical ” romances where all is pinchbeck, all false and
puerile and silly, all devoted to a mere schoolboy cele-
bration of muscular strength and money. That is what
we have to thank Dumas for—the infiuitely contemptible
thing known as the minor English novel of adventure.
J*
Edward Sugden, Master of “Queens,” ap-
pointed to the temporary position of Lecturer
in English at Melbourne University, rendered
vacant by the death of the late Alexander Suther-
land, has a wide and'-Jiberal knowledge of letters
classical and modem. He is a book-lover, a
musician, a humorist, and a good fellow withal’
Mr. M'Cubbin is showing in Melbourne a
portrait of Mr. Sam M'Caughey, M.L.C. The
painter had introduced an ornamental background
with sheep and cattle, but the squatter said that
he hated cattle, and that M‘Cubbiii had painted
in the wrong kind of sheep. He liked prize stock
best. So M’Caughey now stands forth in all the
splendor of Court dress, and the other sheep are
absent.
In a speech delivered at a Melb. Liedertafel smoke
night, Marshall-Hall contended that only persons
who had shown promise of accomplishing original
work, and not persons with good voices and no
musical intuition, should be sent to Europe to
hear the best that could be heard in music. Rut
is it essential that a local,musician should be made
in Germany? Is it not possible that an Austra-
lian, who never leaves Australia, can become a
great musician and write the true symphony of
the bush ? We have a little Australian art, a
little Australian letters, but no Australian music.
Can not our future Australian musician be a
natural outgrowth of the soil ?
JS
“ The men of science crowed over discovery as
though it were the same thing as understanding.
The quality of towns did not matter; the great
tiling was that you could get from one to another
10 times as quickly as your ancestors. You might
have nothing better in your head than the latest
price of corn, but being able to communicate this
fact to a man thousands of miles away in a few
minutes, you were a finer example of civilisation
than Plato.”— G. S. Street.
Some Books .
OF a big batch of novels, etc., by the last
two mails, hardly a one is worth reading,
except as a matter of “filling in time ” on
a railway journey.
John Long & Co. send :
“Woman, the Sphinx,” by Fergus Hume, a
highly-sensational record of the doings of a female
Jekyll and Hyde, who teaches Sunday-school in
one half of her life, and is a Paris courtesan in the
other
“The Investigators,” by J. S. Fletcher—per-
haps the best of the batch; a smart, well-told
yarn of the scientific type, which has some vogue
now.
“ Csesar’s Wife ” —a story of love-intrigue, with
the scenery of the Oberammagau Passion Play.
Not badly told, and of some woman-interest.
“The Diamond of Evil,” by Fred. Wishaw —an
adventure-yarn of fair interest.
“ The Court of Destiny,” by C. Gf. Chatterton
—a love-story, wholesome in tone, but not par-
ticularly strong.
“ Something in the City,” by Florence Warden
—a very “ bluggy ” tale of murder and burglary.
All these reach us through George Robertson
and . Co. We have also received—
“ Sewage Works Analyses,” by Gilbert S.
Fowler (P. S. King and Co., London). The author
is superintendent of the Manchester Corporation
Sewage Works, and his work should be of great
value to drainage engineers. It deals especially
with the septic tank system.
“Saint Antony of Padua” (Duckworth and Co.),
a translation of Albert Lepitre’s work; not a
critical life, but a eulogy of the saint.
*
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Ignoramus (who confesses to an intellect “ not beyond
the average,” and wishes some books recommended,
“fiction or light study preferred”): Try, in fiction,
“Vanity Fair,” “ Lorna Doone,” “Kings in Exile,”
“Hereward the Wake,” “The Scarlet Letter,” “ Les
Miserables,” “Pickwick Papers,” “Evan Harrington,”
“ His Natural Life ” ; in poetry, “ The Ancient Mariner ”
(Coleridge), “ Endymion ” (Keats); for study (more or
less light), “ Sesame and Lilies ” and Bosweli’s Johnson.
This doesn’t pretend to be anything but a hurried pre-
scription.
G.B. writes:— Apropos the mistakes of pressmen as to
their authorship of paragraphs, some years ago, when a
regular contributor to The Bulletin, I continually laid
claim to pars, also claimed by another well-known press
writer— “ Boondi.” Possibly we both erred at different
times. Such confusion arises through men of somewhat
similar tastes selecting the same subjects for treatment,
and treating them in a very similar fashion. Should such
a par. appear somewhat different to the one sent in by
such a one, he often attributes the difference to editorial
touching up. There is also a tendency amongst all men,
whether merely readers or also writers, to regard in time
the thoughts they have merely, read as original with
themselves. Hence the unconscious plagiarist.
“Kiwi” writes : In reply to “QuilpN.” (B. 2/8/’f)2) —
who, by the way, knows something of his subject—allow
me to argue with deference that there is provision for
registration of copyright of literary works in Maoriland.
Granted that there is no local statutory provision, we
still have two undisputable facts—the Copyright Act 1886
(Imperial) is in force here, and we have registration of
copyright in works of art (including dramatic works)
under our two statutes of 1877-79. From these faots, I
argue that the application of the Copyright Act is not
nullified by the accidental omission of a local statutory
provision for registration, and that the Patents Registry
office inherits the jurisdiction of the corresponding
Imperial office. This argument can be supported strongly
by analogy. In a contested will-case in this State many
years ago,, one of the parties claimed that certain words in
the will conferred only an estate tail instead of a fee simple,
asallegedby theotherside. It wasadmittedthatthewords
used Were such as would confer an estate tail in England ;
but as the law of England required a disentailing deed to
be enrolled in the Court of Common Pleas, if the tenant-
m-tail-i repossession wished to convert the‘tail estate into
a fee ; and as there was no Court of Common Pleas in
Maoriland, there could be no enrolment, and hence no
estate tail. It was decided, however, that the Maoriland
Supreme Court had inherited the jurisdiction of the
English Court of Chancery, and that enrolment of the
disentailing deed could be made in the Supreme Court
accordingly. Thus there could be an estate tail in
Maoriland by virtue of the application here of the Fines
and Recoveries Act, 1833, although there had been no
statutory provision for enrolment, which is practically a
convertible term for registration. Analogy, therefore, is
strongly in favor of my contention, and, while I did miss
the point in “JJuilp N.’s” first contribution as to the
absence of provision for registration, I think he will see
that it is, at least, very arguable whether registration
cannot be effected by. means of the Imperial Statute.


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
S YDN E Y.
9
Ifflougall’s Fruit-Tree UJashes
Chief Agents; F. LASSETTER & CO.
SEND ALL SKINS TO
Kangaroo,
Wallaby,
Rabbit,
Opossum.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
„ SYDNEY,
The Leading Salesmen. Full Values and Quick lleturns.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILHP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 Per Cent, to the Growers
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge jd. per lb. to the Buyers.
Liberal Advances,
Accurate Valuations,
When required.
WOOL
Selling 1 Brokers.
PROMPT
RETURNS A
SPECIALITY.
HARRISON, JONES & DEVLIN, Ltd.
Special Attention to
details.
Weights carefully
taken.
Principals Experience Conduct
All Wool Sales.
Offices and Stores:
Circular Quay
Sydney.
it
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 65., Postage 8d„ from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
WONDERFUL VALUE IN PIPES.
Sales-
-150,000 Weekly.
“Cant B Beat
Briar Root Pipe?
GuftP-^ TEED y
HOT TO /
CRACK/
OR f
ymS
LATEST" 1 ' MOST
UP TO DATE SHAPES
pw tE 1 /•
not toetter in a, Guinea HPi-iae.
•n
<a(iaraot€3-
Should any of our Celebrated C. 8.8. Pipes crack or burn a new one will be
exchanged for it immediately on application.
Price Lists on application. MICK SIMMONS, Haynjarkst, Sydney.
•nivprt Importer of Tobaccos, Cigars, Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods, Hairdressers’Requisites, Leather
Goods, Cutlery, Rolled Gold Jewellery, HaWashery Stationery, *£S2F
Goods Guns, Ammunition, etc., etc. TOP QUALITY BOTTOM PKIOtS.
m
FOR THE SEASON. 50 per cent, under Shopkeepers’ Prices.
PURE WOOL SERGES, MELANGES,
VICUNAS, CHEVIOTS, SCOTCH AND
WEST OP ENGLAND TWEEDS . . .
In all the
Most Beautiful
Shades 6t Designs.
425. SUIT TO MEASURE
Cut, Made and Finished to please the most fastidious.
To every Purchaser of our celebrated 425. Serge Suits we present
an extra Pair of Trousers. We do this to advertise our goods,
feeling sure one trial will make permanent customers.
New Season’s Patterns, Post Free, with easy Self-Measurement
Forms. Gentlemen can be measured between the hours of 9 a.m. and
6 p.m., Saturdays till 9 o’clock.
LONPON TAILORING PEPOT,
ONLY ADDRESS—
Opp. G.P.0., BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
F. S. MEYERS, Manager.
NATURE S GREAT
KUTNOW’S POWDER ....
has achieved the highest
distinction in the Medical
World, and is used by the
following distinguished per-
sonages :
The Royal Family.
His Majesty’s Household.
His Majesty’s Ministers.
His Majesty’s Judges.
His Majesty’s Diplomatic Corps.
His Majesty’s Army and Navy.
Members of the House of
Lords.
Members of the House of
Commons.
Members of the Civil Service.
Members of the Universities of
Oxford and Cambridge.
Unquestionably the Necessity of Vigorous
Health is seriously personal to everyone, and therein lies the value
of Kutnow’s Powder, which is transeendentally superior to any known
remedy of the age. Its purity, its painless action, its prompt alleviation
of suffering, and its strengthening, refreshing, invigorating virtues, fully
entitle it to the high distinction it has gained with members of the
Medical profession and the public generally.
With those who take Kutnow’s Powder, an improvement, almost
instantaneously, as it were, in energy is felt, a joyous feeling of vigorous
health returns, exhiliaration of spirits is produced together with eager-
ness for work, delight in pleasure, and sweetness of refreshing rest.
KutnOW’S Powder can be obtained in capsuled bottles from all
Chemists and Medicine Vendors.
KutnOW’S Powder is a tried and proved remedy of great
medicinal, curative, and invigorating value. IMITATIONS are
simply drastic purgatives, and not only useless but injurious.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
See that the name KUTNOW is printed on each Carton in which
the bottle is packed.
Only such ensure genuineness.
THERE ARE FRAUDULENT IMITATIONS.
Beware of them !!
The Medical Council,
January 1902, said :
“ Nature, unfortunately, has
not endowed us with an ostrich
stomach, which we really need
in our modern times to digest
too rich meals swallowed in too
great haste. Eor all sufferers of
indigestion or diseases brought
on by faulty metabolism, the
greatest medical scientists all
over the world have lauded in
the highest of terms Kutnow’s
Powder. It is made direct from
the waters of the best known
European mineral spring, but
supersedes the latter on account
of its pleasant taste, while the
parent water, where it is derived
from, is disagreeable to * the
palate and nauseating to the
taste.”
Rev. T. W. Stephenson writes
“ Aclclington Vicarage, Langwathby.
“I am much obliged for the bottle of
Kutnow’s Powder. T consider it an excellent
remedy in all troubles connected with the
stomach, liver, &c. It has the great advan-
tage of being pleasant to take.
“(Rev.)T. W. STEPHENSON.”
CLEANSES & INVIGORATES THE SYSTEM
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO„ LTD., 41 FARRINGDON RD., LONDON, E.C. Proprietors in U.S.A. : Kutnow Bros., Ltd., 853 Breadway, New York.
’ _____________________ I—7


Discovered by Christopher Mudd, F.L.S., F.R.G.S., M.B.Ph.S., London, Botanist to the King of
England during His Majesty’s Indian Tour.
Eczema OLEAG
Cures this terrible itching complaint.
Not a grease. Does not stain the linen.
Full directions each jar. Jars, 4/6 ; post, 4/10
Used in the Melbourne Homoeopathic
Hospital with success.
ANTHOSHAIR
Not a Grease, purely Botanical.
Written testimony from well-known medical men.
One bottle in daily use lasts about i months.
“Anthos” prevents Hair falling out. Dandruff
and Irritation. Bottles, 2/6 ; posted, 3/3.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND
Melbourne : Foy & Gibson and all Chemists.
Sydney : Pattinson & Co. (all branches).
Park & Son, is 6 Pitt Street.:
Depot: M. H. HORWIi’Z, 34 Pitt Street.
New Zealand : C. L. Best, Ponsonby, Auckland
Adelaide: Harris & Kemp, Arcade.
Brisbane: Taylor & Colledge Ltd.
Perth: Foy & Gibson.
Colonial Representative : Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY, Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane
CHE Largest Manufacturers
and Importers of the Best
Continental and American
Photographic Requisites in
the Commonwealth.
All Leading Lines in Photographic,
Phonographic and Optical In-
struments, and latest Novelties.
A Staff of Skilled Mechanics who can Refit and Repair
anything.
Sole Agents in Australasia for Ross, Ltd., Rondon and Paris.
Baker and Rouse Proprietary, Ltd.,
375 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
MELLIN’S
FOR INFANTS
FOOD
AND INVALIDS.
Is adapted for use from birth.
Send S Z P “ iphlet and Sam P ]es to GOLLIN & CO., 562-4, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
50, Clarence Street, Sydney ; Grenfell Street, Adelaide ; and Wellington.
Mellln’s Food Company for Australia and New Zealand, Ltd., 56, Cannon Street, London, Eng.
GENERAL
ELECTRIC
COMPANY.
Capital - - - £5,250,000.
Manufactures the Highest Grade of
Electrical Machinery.
THEIR NAME IS A CUARfINTEE.
Dynamos, Engines and Motors up to 250 H.P. in Stock.
Lighting and Power Plants for Immediate Delivery.
Arc and Incandescent Lamps and Supplies of all kinds.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC GO.,
Electrical Engineers and Contractors,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, Melbourne and Sydney.
A Doctor’s Present.
A Thrilling 1 Story of Suffering.
A Silver Lining to the Darkest Cloud.
For a long time they tried to cheer ma
by uttering kind and encouraging words,
but they did not do me any practical good
with their medicines, so then I submitted
myself for treatment at several hospitals.
Ihe physic prescribed at those institutions
took no effect, so I sank down to the lowest
depths of despair, because I thought my
fate was sealed. Later on I thought X
would make a final effort, and I sent for one
of the doctors who had been attending me
before, but he said that he could not do
any more for me than what he had
previously done, excepting to advise me to
take a course of Clements Tonic. He said
it was an excellent medicine, and soon after-
wards he good-naturedly made me a present
of two bottles.”
“ How did you feel then, Mrs. Josephs ?”
“ I felt as if my whole life depended
upon Clements Tonic, and in doing so I am
sure I did not exaggerate the seriousness
of the situation, as every other treatment
had failed. When those two bottles of
Clements Tonic were finished there was
more life in me than there had been for
twelve months. I could then take a little
food and enjoy it. Before taking Clements
Tonic everything I tasted was as if I had
put a penny in my mouth, which left a
coppery flavor behind ; but that unpleasant-
ness was soon remedied, and, besides, the
coating over my tongue was cleared away.
Constipation had troubled me, but Clements
Tonic soon remedied that, and all the time
I was getting more light-hearted than ever,
because my pains were decreasing. V These
iim rovements gave me a renewal of hope,
and, as was prudent, I clung tenaciously to
Clements Tonic. The next thing to cheer
my drooping spirits was to observe the
swellings in my head and limbs were being
reduced, and the pains were much less
severe than they had been. It was a very
unusual thing for me to wake up in the
night, but if I did I soon went to sleep
again, and rested peacefully till morning;
and another great benefit that I derived
from the use of Clements Tonic was that
my nerves were toned to their normal con-
dition. Those of my friends who had daily
expected to hear of my death could haidly
realise the fact that I was being carried
further away from the grave every day by
Clements Tonic, and although four years
have passed since then, yet we often have a
chat about the uarrow escape 1 had, and
Clements Tonic is the household remedy of
us all. .1 was trying to tell you how 1
progressed. Well, in a week or two more I
was able to eat solid food without the least
compunction, as my digestive organs were
as healthy as they could be, for there was
no flatulence or chest pains to inconvenience
me, and there was not an ache in any part
of my system. When my strength and
health were completely restored I devoutly
thanked God for my happy release, and as
there is no doubt that Clements Tonic saved
my life you are at liberty to publi.% my
story in any way that the public may taar
of it.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Annib Joskpms, of 18 Wood’s-lane, Woolloo-
mooloo, in the State of New South Wales, Com-
monwealth of Australia, do solemnly and sin-
cerely declare that I have carefully read
the annexed document, consisting of four folios,
and consecutively numbered from one to four,
and that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic ;
and also contains my full permission to publish in
any way my statements—which I give voluntarily,
without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the
Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at East Sydney, this
nineteenth day of February, one thousand nine
hundred and two, before me,
EDWARD W. BUTLER, J.P.
The Case of Mrs. A. JOSEPHS.
(BY a SYDNEY REPORTER.)
There is no suburb that has changed its
status as completely during the past twenty
years as that of Woolloomooloo. Facing
the bay bearing that name, with its
picturesque walks along the foreshores, and
with Hyde Park, the Botanical Gardens,
and the extensive Domain recreation
grounds in close proximity, Woolloomooloo
is one of the most attractive localities
around Sydney, and in it, at No. 18 Wood’s
Lane, lives Mrs. Annie Josephs, whose in-
terview with our reporter is reproduced
below.
“ I have lived at this address,” said Mrs.
Josephs, “for the past eight years, and
when I had been here about half that time
I thought I was going to die. It was after
a confinement that I suffered from blood
poisoning, besides which I lost a great
quantity of blood, and became so weak
that I could not put a foot to the ground
for nearly twelve months. For almost a
year I was in bed, being nothing but a
helpless and hopeless invalid, for I must
tell you that all the treatment I had
received did not lead me to believe
that I would ever get better. There
seemed nothing for it but to lie and
wait .patiently for death to relieve me of
my sufferings, as I kept on wasting and
wasting away, and I was almost paralysed
with agony.”
“Where were the pains principally
located ? ” enquired the pressman.
“ They were in every part of my body,
and my head swelled till it was about twice
its natural size, besides aching so intensely
that I scarcely knew what was going on
around me. Sometimes I became quite
stupefied with pain, and as I never could
sloep at night it is not to be wondered at
that I got so worn out that I used to lie
like one in a trance. All my limbs were
swollen and terrible pains afflicted them as
well, and when the severity of my aches
became so intolerable that a change in my
position was necessary, I had to have a
hoop bound round with wadding put under
my legs, because I was too weak to keep
them bent for a second without having
something underneath to support them.
There was no doubt that the longer I lived
the worse I got, for my nervous system was
frightfully strained, as 1 could not keep my-
self from shaking, and my mind was always
in a state of fear and anxiety. By some
means that 1 cannot explain, because I was
not enlightened on the subject myself, my
vision became very dim, and I nearly lost
the sight of my right eye. As an operation
was indispensable, I went under it, and
although my sight was saved, yet the strain
on my feeble constitution was almost too
great for me to bear. I got more nervous
than eve.r, and could not be left alone in the
house. The shaking of a window or the
creaking of a door sent a thrill of terror
right through me, and the next sensation
that I usually experienced was giddiness,
as though things were moving about in the
room. And you would hardly credit how I
felt if I ate any food, although I should say
‘drank’ instead of ‘ate, 5 because I was
only allowed the lightest of diet, and it
was invariably liquid. All the same, my
stomach could not digest it, and the way I
used to swell out with wind was something
awful, my chest also being troublesome
with a feeling as if a weight was inside me.
My skin was as yellow as a guinea, owing
to my liver being diseased, the doctors said,
and my face was so thin and disfigured that
many of my friends did not know me.
Having previously been very stout, they
could not realise it was me when they saw
nothing but a shadow before them, and the
ominous shakes of their heads made me feel
very downhearted. It was evident they
thought I was dying, and some of them
have since told me they felt sure I could not
live.”
“ You mentioned something about doctors
just now. What did they say about your
prospects ? ”
ROBERTS’ HOTEL, you enjoy YOUR LUNCH
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
Single Room, with Full Board, Bs. per
day, or £2 2s. per week.
TERMS. The convenient
system of paying for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had,
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms ; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.3 o—from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.


Cheapest House in /> u 3tralia for EDISON
Phonographs Records
“BIJOU,” with 6 Records .. .. .. ..,£llO 0
EDISON “STANDARD,” with 12 Records .. 510 0
EDISON “ HOME,” with 24 Records .. .. 810 0
COMBINATION A 1 “GRAND,” taking both
Large and Small Records, with 12 Records, 6
Concert (Sin.) Records and Large Horn .. 10 10 0
EDISON RECORDS, English and American,
per dozen . .. 10 0
CONCERT(Sin.) RECORDS, per dozen.. .. 3 0 0
Send for Splendid New Illustrated Catalogue containing
5000 Selections to choose from. Electric Fans, with
Battery, £5 ; Electric Bike Lamps, 21s ; Flash Lights,
Scarf Pin Lights, 10s 6d ; Vapour Bath Cabinets, 20s; &c.,
Free.
Records can be posted to any address. Machines, care-
fully packed and forwarded to any part of Australasia.
REEVES & CO.,
KING WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
I’ll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
■ to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
CRAIG &. AITKEN. N.s. W. Barber’s Supply
House, 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDMEY.
CHOKE TIPS
f&Z,
ASS'
ili
B
From the Farms of South
Africa-
Black, White or Cream—
10/-
THE
BUNCH.
Post Free.
These Feathers cannot be bought
for twice the money in any other
house.
Write Now. Send Postal Notes
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin
,
There is tnis
peculiar thing
about our Hair
Vigor : it’s a hair-
food, not a dye.
It doesn’t turn
your hair sud-
denly black and
make it look dead
and lifeless. But
gradually the old
color comes back,
all the rich color it
used to have. And
it also stops falling
of the hair.
Even if your hair
isn’t coming out,
isn’t turning gray,
isn’t too short,
yet you certainly
want a fine dress-
ing for it, and here
it is.
Ayer's Hair Vigor
It keeps the scalp clean and healthy,
removes all dandruff, makes the hair
grow rapidly, prevents it from falling
out, and does not allow a single gray
hair to appear.
Do not he deceived hy cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
Skins Soft&White
BY USING
SS
V-
-s>s
Healthy
Complexions Preserved.]
WONDERFUL
CURES BY
ELECTRICITY :
Chronic and nervous
diseases of men and wom-
en yield to the.influence'
-of the electric fluid, when (
medicines fail to give re-
lief. There is no mistake
about this for we have
grateful testimony of hun-
dreds of reputable people
Ys
i n all parts of the world who have used Dr. Pierce’s famous
American Electric Belt and proved the truthfulness of
<tur plains. Reader, if weak, nervous ; tired of drugging
..the stomach and paving doctors’ bills, write today for
“Booklet No. 2,” enclosing stamp, and you will learn of
the greatest remedy of modern times. Addfess, — PiCTCC
Electric CO M 206 Post St., San Francisco, U. S. A., or
VV. H. Soul & Co., 10° Pitt Street, SyViney, N. S. W.
In the last 10 years N.S.W. has lost 7731
people by excess of departures over
N.S.W., by the way, has paid for 659 State
assisted immigrants since 1890. But even that
doesn’t seem to help the population problem
I much.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (combined) Pastoral and Agricultural I Lands or' on tin ß g “®J" r '2. °JJS? lealanif
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or «ew «a an,
« t Lowest Current Rates of Interest,
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per cent,
of the loan during any year without notice or ‘ Meeks MLO Deputy -Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Dire Es° q ;'V The'Hon RJ. ikvcK, m'.L.C. ;F. E. Winchcomee, Esq., M.P.
HEAD n OFT'^CE I : a B7^PITT^STREET,^SYDNEYf ECE, ' " ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
cv
m
m
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 108 r
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-sb.,
SYDNEY.
OSS' Send for a
Catalogue.
r
Bent* Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicle#
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HCTI/LIER., 130 Sussex-street.
W MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buvers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
bv return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for Catalogue. Agents wanted.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES
■M
'aunt
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & GO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
d. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia-^
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Western Australia— *:
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland —
Thos. Browrt & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Phllp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania — ,'
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin & Co.
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christohuroli.
•s *>
fC
L
ime-
The basis of which is “Montserrat” Lime-Fruit Juice .
Far Superior to
all othcii* Sauces.
' > j •.
i4G£N7'S-Elliott Bros. Ltd., J. Connell & Co., D. Mitchell & Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
“Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
Tit<3 Lancet.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description ol
SADDLERY.' If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, fc's; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, t 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double’Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every descriptionof vehicles in Stock and Mada
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE -Do not ba
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for leal
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay la Pat
cent more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-streot, Kodforn, SYAWis d
OUR SPECIAL No. 8
£8 18/6
Delirered at any Wharf «r
V.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10 /-
Price 6s.
“OH OUR SELECTION.”
BY
“Steele Ruddr
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Monsoonal.
“Monsoon oh !” the South was crying,
“ Lord God Monsoon of the North,
We are suffering, fainting, dying,
Charge thy tempests, roll them forth !
Lord God Monsoon straightway crowded
Fleece on fleece, and fold on fold,
Half earth’s firmanent enshrouded,
Blew God’s breath, and southward rolled.
Onward, Onward, to the Southland,
Ocean-freighted cloud-cars stream,
To the death-land, to the drouth-land
Where white bones, drought’s fruitage, gleam.
Diamantina neard his thunder ;
Barcoo saw his wet front shine
Warrego awoke in wonder ;
Swelled thy founts, old Cond amine.
Bree, Bokhara, Culgoa, Narran,
Took the Balonne’s flood again ;
Half-a-thousand miles of Bar won
Broke in splendor on the plain.
Western falls were drenched with blessing ;
Gwydir streams came glimmering down;
Castlereagh awoke caressing
Each drought-stricken desert town.
New births clothed earth’s haggard bosom,
Bared on territorial zones ;
Blade and leaf and bud and blossom
Hurried o’er the wide-strewn bones.
“Oh, Monsoon ! ” the people shouted ;
“ Brave Monsoon ! roll southward still ” ;
While the roaring cloud-rack spouted
Living floods on plain and hill.
But, beneath the healing smother,
Quickening half a continent,
Sadly sighed the Storm King’s brother,
Deep in caverned darkness pent.
He, the Underlord, invested
With a surer, greater boon
Than bore down that brave storm-crested,
Bounteous-breasted, bold Monsoon.
Neath stupendous zones, awaiting
Human effort, human touch ;
All inspiring, all creating,
Succouring all to upward rush.
’Twixt the anvil and the hammer,
Earth of iron and sky of brass,
Shall we ever cease to clamor
That which seldom comes to p?
Strike the firmament beneath us
With the true divining-rod ?
Face the task the Fates bequeath us,
Loose our own imprisoned God ?
F. M.
An Explorer.
He lies outstretched, as does a swimmer,
Who, after days of sweat and simmer,
Has found a flood;
Was he, at last, befooled ?
Did he think a river cooled
His fever’d blocd ?
Not that to him it mattered much,
He was not drown’d ;
That here, instead, his fingers clutch
The ground.
Beneath his brows are darksome caverns,
' Which serve the flies for wayside taverns,
With portals wide ;
Crowds stream through where once shone doors,
Ants and worms on all the floors,
Carouse inside;
He stirs not when the stealthy snake
Uprears its head,
Nor does the scuttling lizard wake
The dead.
His name, in hieroglyphics written
By blood and sand, the Sun has smitten
And made a blot;
Though his bones lie coffinless,
Bleaching in the wilderness,
He troubles not;
The starry sky, the desert rough,
The spaces dim
Are tomb and temple grand enough
For him.
The night winds chant for him their dirges,
Their organ-music swells and surges
Through nave and aisle,
Where the Days in surplice sit,
And the Nights, with tapers lit,
Before him file;
The arches of the firmament
His church-roof span—
He lies, his own white monument—
A man !
There is no Land of Never-Never,
In which is lost his soul’s endeavor,
It lives again
In the man whose pulses dance
Proudly to the proud “ Advance ! ”
As o’er Death’s plain
They bear the flag to Victory,
Whose fields and bars
Link with the Cross eternally
The Stars!
ENGLAND.
HENRY WOOLLEY.


ORNAMENTAL. HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Strut to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
ORA.IG & AITKBN,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
EVERY MAN IS
More or less interested in the curative powers of
MEDICAL GALVANISM and the proper method of
applying this wonderful agent. Before purchasing
Electric Belts or Batteries send for our valuable FREE
BOOK entitled “THE MODERN TREATMENT OF
DISEASE BY ELECTRICITY.” It will tell you what
you ought to know, and may save you time, money
and disappointment. Address—
ARTHUR HALE & SON,
44 Castloreagh Street, Bydney.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to 10st.
I will willingly send particulars FREE to an
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street,
Sending, mention this paper.
a simple
121 b., and
y sufferer
Sydney
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored In
Four Weeks by the use of
£)£ RX CORO's
tS SE** ce or \,\ F
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord's Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions , regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia —PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
F. H. Fauldingr & Co., 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
(Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Aretfie same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free, g
Address— A. M. HAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne,
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rNLOROPyNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyna
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIAKRHCEA, & c -> bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWH6.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
"If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlokodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
FINSEN’S — ■
HAEMATIN - ALBUMIN
TABLETS
A Certain Cure for POVERTY OF BLOOD,
ANAEMIA and WEAKNESS, from whatever cause
arising. The latest wonderful discovery by the great
Danish Scientist,
PROFESSOR NIELS. R. FINSEN.
GIYE THEM A TRIAL l
Extract from The Baptist of August 1, 1902 “We
can speak from personal experience and testify that these
Tablets are an invaluable remedy for weakness occasioned
by Poverty of Blood, Anaemia, and other similar diseases.
All Chemists, at 3s. 6d. per Box.
From Life, for Lovers of Art, Beauty, and Chic ;
Carefully Selected Assortments, Cabinets, or
Stereos, with Illustrated Catalogues and Minia-
tures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s. Money Order or Cheque
on London.
English, French, and German Rare Books
Explain wishes and requirements, and full satisfaction
Will be obtained.
R. GENNERT,
89c Faubourg St„ Martin, Paris, France.
London' Bankers :
L. and SOUTH WESTERN BANK LTD., Head Office.
WOOL PRODUCE. GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
A.CT .A.S SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
'(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
will be ... 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb : 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising FOTJRPENCE per lb. and
„ under ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Is- 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing.
Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, eto., etc.
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIF.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney Clarence Street)
19, 21, 23 King street, BUelbonrne.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES . . .
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pumps, Turbine Fans.
(Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
Messrs. GREENWOOD & BATLEY LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors, Pumps, etc.
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
- ii,o..ig+prt Cables, Wires, Tapes, etc.
7
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regrain Health ?
Go to the Foimtam Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
cure-alls.
Vigor and Strength £; ir a J' ” ho
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Koyal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 1886, has so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no Hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your -fellow man.
If you sue a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
Seels, tlxe Trutla., it costs 3VTotiiing!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, cor. Russell & Collins Sts., Melbourne.
NOME CYCLOPEDIA
BMBRACINO
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 86 Chroraos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is 3d.
Secret History of the Court of England, 1 6 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How TO Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted. "
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappho, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write ms for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How.to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, ray price, 15s post paid’
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is Gd.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Bigr Book
0 italogiie - post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
Dr. J. W. GIBBS*
. . Electric Massage Rollers . .
For use on Face and Body.
For NERVOUS HEADACHES,'
NEURALGIA and RHEUMATISM
—a specific:. Removes Wrinkles.
Gold, 21/- Silver, 16/-
Post Free. Pamphlets Free.
AMERICAN AGENCY COMPANY,
Box 440, G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
Sore Eyes I Blight!
USED 300 YEARS.
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
Never fails. Restores Eyelashes.
HAD FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
“ HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT.”
Ask your Chemist for this little book.
y GO(TT v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
“Don’t shout”
" I hear you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
•“ How ?’ Oh some-
thing new— The Wilson
Common-sense Bar-
Drum I've a pair in my
ears now. you can't see them a
—they're invisible. I wouldn't
\ know I bad them in myself.
\only that I hear all right."
The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
parts of the
natural ear Has no
wire Invisible easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other de-
vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
i. !»?«-*« i Collins Sl. y Help.
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English,
American and made to order.
Silk Elastic Stockings, Beits
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &o.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, dec.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST..SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
a
Sufferers from Deafness or Head Noises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to 'l he L. R. VERNON CO.
60 HUNTER RT., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet desc ibing an entirely new self-
applied method which we will send post
free on mentioning this paper.
pnotisn
m
Reader, why not he able to nse the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form , all the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain ; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
notiiing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
iof the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the Kind
ever publ shed. For a short
time I wi 1 send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a cbance of
a life-time. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GRIMAULT & Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy .
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstrk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestke & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.


66
C- 3
M
O'
c-n
as
8 t© *; •.
00 o o
Four Crown
Whisky
HEALTH GIVING
COOLING,
1 FRUIT
REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING.
S A LT.’
THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT where It has been,
taken in the earliest stages of a disease, it has, in
innumerable instances, PREVENTED what would other-
wise have been a SERIOUS ILLNESS.
CAUTION. — See capsule marked END’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. O. BNO, Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, ENG.,
by J. C. ENO S Patent.
On Our Selection.” By “ Steele Rudd.”
THE GREAT EVENT.
HATTE’S CORONATION FAIR
rpilE King rules by right of descent over Millions of Free-born Britishers, and Hatte, by virtue of
-L Good Value, exercises a gentle sway over the Ladies of New South Wales. Just now—
The Great Coronation Fair is on
And the People of both High and Low Degree are Rejoicing.
There are £250,000 of Absolute FAIRING BARGAINS and 400 Highly Efficient
Assistants waiting to give a ROYAL WELCOME to the LOYAL LEIGES
of THE KING OF THE DRAPERY TRADE.
Ladies ! come early to the Fair (it will console you for being absent from Westminster), and
.'■end for a Fair Book—the Greatest Bargain List ever published.
C. G. HATTE, Newtown.
THE
‘PLUM’
THE
PLUM
/GENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered,' perfectly hollow ground, rings
'J r like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7a 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
p / Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Oase, 2 la.
' (.Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 308.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DBIr’Y COMPETITION,
WINES m Bes( °*> SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
. TRADE MARK .
FOX
Fox Bros. & Co., Ltd., warn
the Public that their Trade
Mark consists
ONLY
of the word
FOX
which is a guarantee of sound'
ness of material and Quality
of Dye of all
Worsted Coalings,
Serges 1 Zwzk
on which it is stamped.
As the result of many years
of experience
fox’s pure Mgo Dye
is recognised as the best in the
market. All FOX'S standard
cloths are stamped every two
yards on the back
FOX
PURE INDIGO
and without this stamp are
not genuine. These celebrated
serges can be obtained from the
leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Colonies.
F©X S&O3. & Go., Ltd.,
Wellington, Sosnerset, Eng,
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300 pages;
price, 4s. 6d.; postage, 6d.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
Weak Hen!
9
m
m
m
m
Xs&fi
m
n
VS"3 .•*•= . —
Do You Want New Vigor ?
Your Eye to Sparkle, and
To Feel, and be a Man Again?
Every man knows how false have been the claims of quacks and self-
styled Specialists who promised to cure him with drugs. Drugs never
cure weakness, never stop the drain of vitality, never cure a weak stomach
(they cause a good many). Drugs excite, stimulate for a time, but they have
no lasting effect, no substantial strength in them, hence they never cure.
There is only one certain way to restore vigor, to renew strength, to cure LAME
BACK, NERVOUSNESS, VARICOCELE, DEBILITY, RHEUMATISM, WEAK
KIDNEYS, and, in fact, all Chronic Ailments. That way is to fill the body each night
with a soothing, invigorating current of electricity.
dr. McLaughlin’s electric relt
And FREE ELECTRIC SUSPENSORY
Gives strength from Nature. It developes the vital organs, and renews vigor. In three
months it will cure permanently the worst case of weakness. Stop drugging, and try it.
You will thank us for urging you. Hundreds have.
,**» r\ n/i t _ Parkes, June 9th, 1902.
Jjhe: J_)R. McLaughlin Co. —Gentlemen,—l am pleased to be able to tell you that I am well satisfied with
the effect of your Belt. I use it but very little, and I find even that has the desired effect. My wife has worn
t also for rheumatic pains, with success.—Yours truly, J. F. Glasson.
Dear Sirs, —For years I suffered from Sciatica and Weak Back. But a few weeks of your Electric
Belt cured me. and put me right again. It gives me great pleasure to recommend your BeIt.—DANIEL
MURRAY, Dooen P. 0., near Horsham, Vic.
After twenty years of poor health, I consider that your E'ectric Belt has made a man of me. All the
weakness is gone, and I feel splendid in every way. Everything else had failed, but the belt did the
work.—J. JENSON, Perry-street, Brisbane.
FREE BOOK.
Write for our Free Book, giving illustrations showing how the Belt is applied to produce these wonderful
results. It shows you exactly what the Belt is, how you wear it, and is full of the good things a weak
man or woman wants. It is worth hundreds to the sick man, but costs him nothing. Sent sealed, post
paid, upon request.
~ • v OaU a practical demonstration. See and feel the current, learn how easy it can be controlled, and how powerful it is.
tins chance to get well. Our Belt is not sold by Agents or Chemists. You are under a skillful doctor while using it.
Don’t miss
Hours—
-9 a m. to
9 p.m.
the dr. McLaughlin co.
5
85 KINO STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office, 167 E Swanston-St.


¥
ill
I lilfll
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only and
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
GORDON MARE, Secretary.
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
28 Years in the Establishment
>cJewellers& Opticians
> v 9oKingSl.Sydney.
Kindly
Send for
Illustrated
Catalogue.
ALL GOODS
POST FKEE.
&&C4^
SHOWING FRONT CLOSED.
SHOWING BACK OPEN
AND LETTER.
TTZ&d tz&ves
AND
POST-
CARD
CHARMS.
Unique Novelty.
LOVE LETTER
CHARM,
Finely Enamelled,
Solid Siver, Gilt,
to open, 6s 6d.
Including Name
or Monogram.
POST CARD
CHARM,
Finely Enamelled,
Solid Silver, Gilt,
5s 6d.
Hall-Marked Gold,
10s 6d.
With Name or
Monogram.
GOLD SPOON
CHARM, 4s.
With Pin and
Chain, 7s.
NEW HEART
PENDANT,
Solid Gold, set with
Real Pearls and
Turquoise, Rubies,
or Sapphires,
22s 6d.
REMARKABLE VALUE
Love-Letter
HENNESST’S
THREE STAR
BRANDT
Beware of
Cheap
Grain Spirits
Flavored
and
Colored
to
Imitate
Cognac
Brandy.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
Ta
ss
&
7*l
V*
%
%
Va
w
-T >'
s
uS
vsy
s <*
Lx'V
3SB
V f s
Or
I
:'£:
mm
.....;
It' ■ * 1
~9
c 3i
l-b
iiu.iifcjj
-S!l
Hi
m
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica
tion to The Manager.
WIGHTMAN’S
BEHCOMSFIELP HOTEL
Beaconsfield Parade, St. Kilda, Melbourne.
piRST-CLASS ACCOMMODATION for Visitors and Per-
■ manent Boarders. Situated in the healthiest part of
St. Kilda, facing' the sea. Hot and Cold Sea Baths. Fifteen
minutes from Melbourne—tram or train. Reasonable Tariff.
Special terms for families and permanent boarders.
Telephone 65 Windsor Exchange.
A ROYAL LIQUEUR.
PETER F. HEERING, Copenhagen,
As Supplied to — CHERRY BRANDY
The King of England; The Royal Danish and Imperial Russian Courts.
SWIFT AND COMPANY, 7 Spring Street, Sydney, Australasian Agents.
MACHINERY
MERCHANTS,
WHOLESALE IRONMONGERS,
And Importers of
Engines, Boilers, Pumps, Wood-
working Machines, Engineers’
Supplies, Blacksmith and
Coachbuilders’ Requisites, Pipes
and Fittings, Boiler Tubes, Gun
Metal and Brassware for Steam
and Water, Household and
Builders’ Ironmongery, Agri-
cultural Implements, Horse
Gears, Chaff Cutters, &c.
uota
Smellie&c?
-znr.
ISSlsrlffi
7**l*
■
MAc.Hrrfc.aY Store
Bulk Store,.
ValulV
tfeAD
fpjce:
WR.ISBAN
afiSai
UKIOEVWL..
m
North Queensland Warehouse:
Stanley Bs. Sturt Sts., Townsville.
Also at
New Broad St. House, London, E.C.
r AGENTS FOR
ROBEY & CO., Portable
i Steam Engines.
|W. B. HAIGH & CO., Saw-
I mill Machinery.
I GWYNNE’S Centrifugal Pumps
iPEARN’S Manchester Steam
1 Pumps.
DUPLEX Steam Pumps.
SCOTT’S Steel Mining Ropes.
FRANK VIAL & SON Leather
Belting.
WAUKEGAN Barb Wire.
PLANET JR. Implements.
AER MOTOR Windmills.
KEROSENE OIL ENGINES.
THE HXTIEES'Vir 3EI3iGr3EiI! Gr3Et.sA.l3Ei IPHa'CXGr TOBACCO.
World
Renowned
CAPSTAN
Is now supplied IN PLUG FORM in addition to Cut.
TRY IT!
The Highest Grade Tobacco sold within the Commonwealth. TRY IT!


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 23.—N0. 1178.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1902.
Pbioe 6d.
TO GAIN COHEN’S BLESSING.
The TI ME, in a leading article, advises Premier Barton to take a larger view of Australian politics, and instances the growth of discontent in Queensland
with the policy and the conduct of the Federal Government.”— CABLE.
J°hN g)ULL jNJOW 'JoIbV OLD n/\N
TRY TO FOKG6T TKM"
stupid v»&ioisj AyNd uey
iNTi\oDucfc
S°LID PACTS
foBY- yjb NO Use TertPTinc
Me, I simply
I>/\R6 not


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
" Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, ’.Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co.,' Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-streel North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBER*
(Payable in Advance,'only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £■l 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralin and Dlaoriland .
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
€l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of 1 \d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage — lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of Tub Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Jilaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
San Francisco.—A. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa. — lt. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown.; also in the Transvaal. P. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Capetown. Givelo News Agency,
llhodesia.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1902.
The Ingratitude of England.
Mr. Edmund Barton, speaking in Glasgow recently, said
it was an “appalling fact” "to him that Australia had
only two-thirds of the population of London. He added
that the island continent had plenty of room for the
surplus population, and that it offered abounding oppor-
tunity, “ not to paupers,” but to those with a little money
and plenty of independence.
Mr. Edmund Barton and his fellow citizens can get rid
of the “appalling fact” as soon as they choose. Aus-
tralia has prospered not alone by the industry and
enterprise of its inhabitants, but also by reason of the
protection it enjoys within the British Empire, and by
reason of the loans for public works which it is able to
obtain because of its political status. Yet these inhabi-
tants, instead of encouraging emigration, have extin-
guished such facilities as existed in former years, the
Labor party in the colonies pursuing a policy of Protec-
tion, fearing that the influx of newcomers might tend to
reduce their own Wages. Hence the ‘ appalling fact.’
“The cost of maintaining the Empire, Australia in-
cluded, comes mainly out of the pockets of the people
Mr. Edmund Barton describes as ‘ paupers ’ —that is, the
people who have not sufficient funds to emigrate; the
people who are not wanted in Australia. Mr. Barton
may reply that it is not the ordinary artisan and laborer
that he refers to as a pauper. Then what does he mean ?
No one has any desire to turn off into the colonies a stream
of workhouse inmates ; but the interests of the Empire
demand that the stream of able-bodied laborers and
artisans, such as now goes in steady volume to the United
States, should be directed to the oversea States of the
Empire. The policy of Australia tends to keep these men
at home.
“ Colonial statesmen would do well, instead of talking
in the old country about appalling facts, and only trying
to get preferential treatment in our markets for'colonial
products—at the cost of the ‘ paupers ’—to concert with
Imperialistic Colonial Secretaries and others some means
of State-aided and State-directed emigration. In this
way the labor market at home would be relieved, the
colonies would be built up, and the Empire would be
stronger. The Labor party in Australia bars the way.”—
English Paper.
The above yarn, which is having a wide cir-
culation in Australia, represents a bad form
of a popular English delusion. Also it
shows up the beastly ingratitude of the
English people in its worst shape.
* * * »
Australia has toiled hard, and is toiling
hard, to preserve Australia for the ungrate-
ful Briton. The vast majority of the Aus-
tralians are either Britons or the descendants
of Britons, and the great mass of these
desire to keep Australia for their own British
selves, for their children, and for the new
Britons who may. join them in the future.
The Aliens Restriction Act, as now adminis-
tered, makes the qualification for entrance to
Australia the ability to write a few sentences
in the English language, and under that law
all manner of Britain’s enemies are shut out,
but the Englishman himself—unless he is
incurably diseased, or an idiot, or a pauper
of the most hopeless variety—comes in
freely. . He is admitted more freely into
Australia than he is now into the United
States, and is asked fewer questions at
Sydney than at New York. Australia lies
at the back door of Asia, and adjacent to the
Hindu, the Chinaman and the Polynesian ;
and its biggest fight with the English
authorities has been for the right to shut
out these individuals, to keep Aus-
tralia white, to preserve it for the
Briton who has come here and become an
Australian, and for the Briton who, it is
hoped, will come and be an Australian by-
and-bye. If cheap black, yellow and piebald
labor is allowed to spread over Australia,
then there will be no more room for British
immigration here than there is in India or
Jamaica, and the policy of the Labor party
has been steadily directed towards preserv-
ing Australia as a fit and suitable field for
British immigrants. In doing so it has
been reviled by unpatriotic British papers
and un-British British authorities. It was
compelled to resort to the subterfuge of an
educational test for immigrants, because the
British Govt, refused to permit the direct
exclusion of the swarm of blacks and yellows
who were elbowing out the white Briton who
is here, and destroying all prospect for the
white Briton who is coming here. And it
was only after long argument with the un-
English Chamberlain—Chamberlain of the
n 'SS er an d the orchid—that it was able to
do anything at all to prevent the English
immigrant being wholly shunted off the face
of Australia.
* •
Australia, in fact, has done, and is doing,
a vast amount more for the British immi-
grant than Britain does itself. It offers him
land on easy terms, and in some cases gratis ;
England only offers him a landlord, and a
rack-rent, and a bailiff, and an eviction. It
offers him freedom—as much freedom as the
British Government will allow it to offer—
from the competition of cheap aliens;
in England he must scramble for work in
competition with swarms of Poles, Bohe-
mians, and Italians, and all the other debris
of Europe. It offers him a share of political
power, such as is undreamt of in England.
The British working man may come out
here and become Premier, as did Parkes,
the Warwickshire agricultural laborer, and
Seddon, the Lancashire artisan ; the British
Premiership is a sacred preserve for the
“ gentlemen of England.” To every healthy
and industrious Englishman, whom England
crowds out so that his farm may be a grouse
moor for some American millionaire, or so
that his billet may go to some cheap and
filthy Polish Jew, Australia offers free access
and such opportunities as its own people
en j°y. The fact that these opportunities
don’t amount to much is another story.
* * * *
As a matter of fact, despite all that Aus-
tralia has done for the British immigrant,
there is practically no British immigrant at
all. He makes for Canada occasionally, for
the United States mostly, for Australia,
since the alluvial gold was practically ex-
hausted, hardly ever. In the main he avoids
British colonies nowadays as he would a pes-
tilence. And the cause of his preference for
the U.S. is simply the enormous Protection
of the U.S. tariff. Australia buys goods
from England to the annual value of about
£6 10s. for every inhabitant of the Common-
wealth ; the U.S. buys from England
annually less than 10s. worth for every
inhabitant. Australia imports altogether
nearly £ll worth of goods annually per in-
habitant—most of it from various parts of
the British Empire ; the United States im-
ports a shade over £2 worth per inhabitant
annually. If Australia adopted the U.S.
tariff, and practically prohibited imports,
then it would necessarily manufacture for
itself an immense variety of goods which
it now imports (the fiscal wrangle as to
whether it would manufacture them profit-
ably or otherwise is not under discussion at
present). Then there would be huge fac-
tories dotted over this country, and the
British immigrant could find work in
them. The only reason why the multi-
tudinous British immigrant can’t find work
here at making our boots and engines
and agricultural implements, and cottons,
woollens, silks, &c., &c., is that we are so
foolish as to buy a ridiculously large propor-
tion of them from England, and consequently
the work is there. The work can’t be in two
places at once. Australia, in proportion to
its population, buys more from England
than does any other country on earth ; it
is an unspeakable fool for doing so, and
when it expands its Protective system to be
something like that of the United States
it will cease from that folly. The rest of
the story can be condensed into three simple
propositions. Because the bulk of oUr goods
are manufactured in England they are not
manufactured here. Because they are not
manufactured here there is hardly any work
to offer the British immigrant. Because
there is hardly any work to offer him he
doesn’t come—or if he does come he is very
sorry for it.
* * * *
Australia certainly offers the British
immigrant as much as it can, while still giving
this foolish and ridiculous support to the
British manufacturer and trader, and it offers
him a lot more than it can afford. It gives
him cheap land and 30 or 40 or 50 years in
which to pay for the land, and very often he
doesn’t pay for it at all; cheap or gratis edu-
cation ; seed-wheat in bad seasons ; railway
carriage for his produce at much less than
the carriage costs ; old-age pensions (in the
two principal States) ; jobs on public works
when he is hard pressed ; cheap advances
per medium of State Land Banks ;
hardly any local taxation ; aid to irri-
gate ; assisted or free passages (in one State,
anyhow) ; and a vote, so that if he
doesn’t think he is treated properly
he can bring influence to bear on the local
member and have his grievances expounded.
But, with all aids and concessions, nine-
tenths of Australia is a country which hardly
offers a bare living to the agriculturist, and,
as the British agriculturist is becoming more
and more of a failure even in his own well-
watered country, he naturally doesn’t
come to our desert lands and make a
success of them in any great numbers.
And the only way we can make room for any
large influx of any other classes is by declar-
ing a relentless trade-war against England,
doing our utmost to damage English indus-
tries, destroying one-tenth of the British
export trade, and transplanting, by main
force, a huge mass of British industries to
Australia. Then we could offer a field for
British immigration, inasmuch as the
artisan who used to make our goods in
Manchester or Sheffield would come
here and make them in Melbourne or
Sydney instead. This is how the United
States has created a great opening
for British immigration. It is its
two thousand million pounds worth per
annum of manufactures—not its compara-
tively paltry seven hundred million pounds
worth of agricultural produce—which enables
the United States to absorb the surplus
labor of England.
* • *
No British possession has ventured to
declare war on British industry with the
relentless ferocity that has characterised
the United States, and to systematically
damage British manufactures and British
export trade as they have done. There-
fore, none of them has anything even
faintly resembling the industries that the
United States possess, for it is impossible
for us to manufacture our own goods and
buy our goods from Britain at the same time.
As a natural result, no British possession
offers the employment that the United
States do, and the British emigrant avoids
“the colonies,” and goes where he can find
work. So the best of Britain’s manhood
leaves it to build up a great, overshadowing
and more or less hostile State, and British
colonisation is coming to be something very
like a failure, and the British empire begins
to sound hollow underfoot. It is sacrificed
to the octopus of the British manufacturer
and the British merchant, and the super-
stition of the British theorist. And Britain
isn’t in the least degree grateful for the
sacrifice. Papers like the one quoted at the
head of this article have a vaguely abusive
idea that Australia should do as much as
heretofore for the support of the British
manufacturer by buying, in proportion to
its population, more of his goods than any
other community on earth ; that it should
neither supply itself with manufactured
goods, and so destroy Britain’s market here,
nor export manufactured goods and destroy
Britain’s market elsewhere ; and at
the same time it should manufacture
largely so that its industries will supply
employment for the British emigrant—for
whom Britain won’t find employment
itself lest the great Freetrado policy should
be damaged. And when this double-
barrelled arrangement won’t go off, the
British press has a grievance against the
Australian Labor party, and blathers at
large. The only British possession which
attracts British immigrants in anything like
large numbers is Canada. And Canada does
so because, even with the concessions it
grants to British trade, it has the heaviest
and most bitterly anti-British tariff in the
Empire. It buys from England to the ex-
tent of 335. per inhabitant per annum, as
compared with Australia’s £6 10s. Because
it buys less it manufactures more, and
because it manufactures more it is able to
offer the emigrant British artisan a job and
the emigrant British farmer a large and
profitable local market. Except while a gold
or diamond or loan boom isin progress there
isno permanent flow of immigration nowadays
to any save manufacturing States. Therefore,
the British immigrant must still go to
strengthen a foreign and hostile State, or the
British oversea possessions must find work
for him—and they can only do that by
throwing the British manufacturer over-
board. And if the British manufacturer is
thrown overboard, the only thing left for
him to do is to start supplying his own
country, and he can only do that, apparently,
by shutting out a great part of the
£500,000,000 worth of imports over which
England is so inflated, and bursting up the
ConDEsr myth.
The Secession Silliness.
It was inevitable that there should arise a “ seces-
sion party ” in Federated Australia. Progress
always arouses opposition. When steam machinery
replaced hand looms, the ignorant saw the Devil
in the innovation, and opposed it as heartily as
they did the locomotive which took the place of
the stage coach. Every step forward, in science,
in industrial enterprise, in politics, has to be
made in the face of the bitter opposition of the
foolish, and, when reform does become a realised
fact, it has to still to face the unpleasant
duty of clearing opponents of cow-like intellect
off the track. This is especially the case
in regard to political reform movements.
Every extension of the franchise, every better-
ment of the system of popular government, has
been fought resolutely when suggested, and
when accomplished has still had to face, for a
while, the despairing attacks of Tories anxious ta
go back to “ the good old days.” The Federation
of the American States, for example, was only
perfected after years of struggle in the forum and
in the field. Beginning as a loose confederation
of almost absolutely autonomous settlements, the
American colonies found it necessary to their
industrial and national prosperity to develop into
a scientific Federation of States, supreme in local
matters, but subject to the legislation of the
Union in all affairs of national importance. But
every step forward —though rendered urgently
necessary by the need for preserving and develop-
ing the new nation—was made in the teeth of
bitter opposition. The argument from the Federal
side at the time when the most serious change was
made (1788), which distinctly stamped the United
States as a firm Federation, instead of a loose
Confederation, has been preserved in that classic
of constitutional literature, The Federalist.
* * * *
It will be noted from that work that the argu-
ments of the Secessionists in America then, or
of those who believed at least in a looser form of
union, were worthy of some serious notice, and
had to be argued by Hamilton, Jay and Madison
on serious lines. The dis-unionists were in the
wrong, but they erred in a dignified and pseudo-
patriotic way. Their claim, however mistaken,
was evidently inspired by a genuine belief that
the Federation would contract the liberties and
prejudice the prosperity of the States. It is a
pitiful comparison to turn from them to the Aus-
tralian secessionists of to-day, like turning from
an honest, respectable, good-intentioned if dull-
witted ox to a small, disreputable, and irre-
sponsible he-goat. There could be no better proof
of the satisfaction which the Federal union has
given to reasonable Australians than is provided
by the character of the opposition which it has
aroused. There is not one argument deserving of
serious consideration alleged against the union,
not one person worthy of serious notice among
its enemies.
* * * •
Mr. Philp of Queensland may be taken, per-
haps, as the leader of the secessionists ; he, at any
rate, is the most noisy and tli9 most prominent of
the crew. The best reason for destroying the
union that he can allege is its refusal to
allow a continuation of the Kanaka slave-
trade in Queensland. This might fairly
be advanced as, in a sense, a valid,
though essentially a paltry, provincial and
un-Australian excuse for hostility to the Federa-
tion in Queensland, but for the fact that that
State is itself just as resolute in opposition to the
slave traffic as is the Federation. The anti-Kanaka
laws were passed largely at the instigation of, and
with the unwavering support of, a majority of the
Queensland representatives in both Houses of the
Federal Parliament. With that fact in view the
charge against the Federation of being insensible
to the State views of Queensland falls to the
ground. If Mr. Philp secured the secession which
he professes to hope for, and at the same time
allowed the Queensland people a free and un-
fettered franchise, he would have just as serious a
ground for complaint against the State Parlia-
ment on the black labor question, and would have
to start a new secession movement with Thursday
Island as the Promised Land.
• • » *
The opposition in N.S.W. to the Federal Union
is fairly represented—its ignorance, its appalling
contempt for facts, and its narrow-mindedness—by
a letter from “Junius” which Sydney D.T. pub-
lished last week with evident relish :
Under Federation it is indispensable that the sum of
£9,000,000 be raised through the customs, to become
£1.8,000,000 by the time it reaches the consumer. And
whether that enormous sum be raised by Mr. Barton or
by Mr. Reid, or by Mr. Anybody else, the result must
practically be the same to the great mass of the com-
munity, and the purchasing power of the poor man’s
sovereign in New South Wales must thereby shrink to
13s. 4d. With this fact before them, can anyone suppose
that the poor and the comparatively poor are so much in
love with Federation, and with Mr. Barton, and with Mr.
Reid, and with the Victorian manufacturers, that they
will consent to pauperise themselves and their wives and
their little ones in order that manufacturers and pro-
minent politicians may be enriched ? I think not. For-
tunately there is a remedy. Bet the 107,000 who voted for
the bill and the 82,000 who voted against it combine their
numbers boldly and unitedly, and then let them call
upon their representatives in Parliament to pass a reso-
lution to withdraw from Federation. And then who shall
hinder us from resuming the political freedom which we
so foolishly threw away ? Holland and Belgium separated,
and why should not we ?
In conclusion, let me remind the people of New South
Wales that “Providence helps those who help them-
selves,” and that “ they who would be free, themselves
must strike the blow.”
It is not a fact that under Federation “ it is indis-
pensable that the sum of £9,000,000 be raised
through the Customs.” There is no necessity to
raise a penny. The Federation could, if it pleased,
obtain all its revenue by direct taxation, and
raise nothing through the Customs. But it is a
fact that the present Federal Government, out of
consideration for the States, and more particularly
for the State of N.S.W. (whose Treasurer, repre-
senting a Government which commanded a huge
majority at last State election, has publicly
pleaded for a higher Federal tariff), has very
properly sought to raise a sufficient customs
revenue to keep the States, at any rate, fairly
solvent. Passing over a few of the more idiotic
remarks —there is not a remedy by passing a
resolution in the N.S.W. Parliament to withdraw
from the Federation. Such a resolution would
have as much effect as a vote of censure on the
Balfour Cabinet by the Balmain Town Council.
“Junius” is even out in his proverbs. Those
“ who help themselves” often go to prison, as the
man who stole the sausages discovered, and those
“who would be free and themselves strike the
blow” are apt under some circumstances to get
hurt.
* * * *
An almost equal degree of folly and lack of
candor as that of “Junius” is shown by Mr.
Stone, M.P., who has arisen as the leader of the
Secessionists in Groperland. He has given notice
in the Westralian Parliament:—
It is desirable that the Government should take such
steps as will bring about a separation of West Australia
from the Federal union, in order that this State may have
the same control over its finances and other important
matters it heretofore enjoyed, and that the present time
would be more opportune for the withdrawal than a more
distant date, when the State may have to share a heavy
Federal debt.
Mr. Stone ignores the facts that since Federation
Westralia has had control of more revenue
than it ever had before ; and that since it
occupies about the second worst place (with the
prospect of soon being absolutely worst) in thq


loan indebtedness per head of the Australian
States, an anxiety on its part about being bur-
dened with an unfair share of a Federahsed debt
is needless. The State which owes least may
suffer a slight temporary loss if the debts are
federalised ; the State which owes most, or next
to most, certainly cannot.
m * • *
These are fair samples of the imbecile Secession-
ist argument. They practically prove that in its
working Federation is in all respects bene-
ficial. If the party of disunion cannot
advance any facts, or even any plausible lies, to
help their case, it must be a very bad case indeed.
And that is just the position.. The Secessionists
are made up of a few disappointed notoriety-hunt-
ing politicians, followed by a few of those
persons of weak intellect who would follow any-
thing that is passing with a brass band or a noisy
bellman, even to a flea’s funeral. They are backed
up by certain petty-minded and parochial papers
whose proprietaries are being asked by an unfeel-
ing Federal Government to pay postage on their
parcels. There couldn’t be better proof of the
strength of the union than the character of its
enemies.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Indus trial Arbitration in Working 1 .
N.S.W. Trades Unions are having brought home
to them the fact that Industrial Arbitration car-
ries its responsibilities as well as its privileges.
The Industrial Arbitration Court, thanks to Mr.
Justice Cohen and the other members, has shaped
itsdecisions, not alone with perfect justice, but with
a notable sympathy for the admirable principle of
trades unionism. Still, it has had occasion to
administer some severe rebukes to labor organisa-
tions. The litigation in regard to the Australian
Workers’ Union and some of its very foolish rules
has not yet been completed, and cannot be made
the subject of comment; but the proceedings now
pending in Equity to make the union responsible
for alleged unlawful acts of its members
and officers, and the Arbitration Court action
in regard to registration, however they may
result, will certainly teach the necessity of a care-
ful observance of the law which makes for indus-
trial peace. The best advice which a friend can
give to the A.W.U. —at preseut encompassed
round with many difficulties and beset with many
enemies—is to hire a front-rank lawyer at once.
The Union has done such good work for the bush
toilers that it would be a pity to see it, for lack of
sound legal advice, subjected to severe loss because
of the mistakes of well-meaning officers who
“didn’t know.” The Shipwrights’ Union—one
of the oldest and most Conservative industrial
bodies in the State —which didn’t bother to
register under the Act, because it was quite
able to take care of itself, thank you, has
also had a mild shock by being hauled before
the court and ordered to keep the peace in regard
to a little strike. On the other hand, the Bread-
Carters’ Union has won a decision which is not
only just but sympathetic to labor aspirations.
And Mr. Justice Cohen has gone out of his way
to state that any prejudice he had ever enter-
tained against trades-unions has now been effaced
by the knowledge of their working that he
has gained. Presumably, Mr. Cohen’s ideas were
previously gathered from the daily papers ; now
they are founded on facts. On the whole,, the
labor unions have, so far, had much the better of
the argument, and of the decisions, in the Arbitra-
tion Court; but they must decide, for the future, to
have officers who make it their business to under-
stand the law as it affects industrial disputes, and
must keep in mind the fact that they are forbidden
(as well as the other fellow) to break the peace.
♦ !
The Debts that are Falling Due.
It is commonly understood that close on £8,000,000
worth of new Australian loans are pending, and
will be put on the London market the moment
there is a fair prospect of getting them through.
This is in addition to, and quite apart from, the
fact that N.S.W., Victoria, and S..A. are con-
stantly selling stock locally—selling it every day
and as much of it as they can dispose of. Queens-
land wants £2,000,000 ; Victoria, at least
.£1,000,000; Westralia, about as much as it can
get; S.A. wants something; N.S.W. wants the
earth, but would like about £4,000,000 to go on
with. The local subscriptions are not large
now this despite the fact that the latest
banking returns show that there is more
actual cash in the Commonwealth than there
has been for a considerable time. The latest
Victorian loan issued in London was mostly left
on the hands of the underwriters, and all the
recent flotations have been done at a very heavy
cost. Also the English papers are speaking more
disrespectfully of Australian credit, and the Aus-
tralian way of using loans as revenue, and Aus-
tralian profligacy and helplessness, than they have
done for a long while. All these things make it
ten times more important that the Federal Gov-
ernment should at once assume the responsibility
of the old State debts so far as to take over each
State loan as it falls due, and renew it by issuing
Federal consols for the amount. It isn’t necessary
to devise any great scheme of conversion or con-
solidation as yet; all that is wanted is that it
should take over each loan as it matures, renew it,
and charge the interest to the State concerned. It
is growing more and more obvious that a crisis in
the credit of these States may come at any
time —it may come before next Federal session
begins. If the crisis merely prevented the float-
ing of new loans it would be the best thing
that could happen. But old loans keep falling
due, and they must be renewed, crisis or no
crisis, and if they have to be renewed in a bad
time, on no better security than the much depre-
ciated State credit, the price paid for the money
may be something enormous. Queensland, in
1891, had an old loan to be renewed, and it
sold its £lOO securities for £BB each to raise the
money. In 1893 it had a still worse experience,
and was glad to take less _ than £B6. The
Federal Government has nothing to do with the
new State profligacies, and need offer them no
encouragement. But the old ones can’t be un-
done ; and by taking over these ancient liabilities
as the respective pay-days arrive, with the, as
yet, unsmirclied Federal credit to back the oper-
ation, hundreds of thousands, or even millions,
might be saved. The present Federal session
should not be allowed to end without this matter
being attended to. These States were badly
“ squeezed ” over most of the loans when they
were first floated. There is no reason why they
should be still more badly squeezed over the re-
newals, if the Federal credit can help them.
4 .
Be the Quiraing.
“Shell-back ” writes about a vanished ship
By all means let the scope of the Quiraing inquiry be
as wide as possible, with the object of discovering if
culpable neglect exists in any direction. Amongst the
profession, however, a prevalent notion exists that these
so-called inquiries into marine disasters are little more
than whitewashing performances.
Take some examples of the last few years. In the Alert
case the Board of Inquiry found (I believe) that a vessel
of the Alert’s type should not have been granted a certifi-
cate allowing her to trade outside the Heads, being osten-
sibly built for Bay work. But has that finding prevented
other vessels of a similar build engaging in the outside
business ?
In the Glenelg case it was proved at the inquiry that
the Vic. Marine Board surveyor permitted the vessel to
go to sea knowing that her shaft was defective (he himself
had condemned it, and a new one under construction
was to be fitted on her return). I do not say that this
was the actual cause of the disaster, yet who knows but
what the defective machinery may have seriously con-
tributed to it ? Yet the finding of the court was to the
effect that no one connected with the running of the
vessel was to blame.
The case of the Federal is still more wrapped up in
mystery, there not being even a single survivor to throw
any light on the cause of her foundering. Possibly she
may have been overloaded. Such things do occasionally
happen at the N.S.W. southern coal jetties, where super-
vision is notoriously lax. I have seen, on more than one
occasion, colliers arrive in Hobson’s Bay, after a four-
days’ passage from the coal ports, with the centre of the
disc still awash, even after allowing for consumption of
fuel, water and stores. An inch or two in the amount of
freeboard may seem but a trivial matter to the shore-
going mind, but it is an item of serious importance to a
deep-loaded collier in dirty weather. There is always
lcwt. of coal in an over-loaded vessel which was the cwt.
with which safety ended and danger began.
The Quiraing was a vessel of a build much in vogue
some quarter century past—long, narrow and deep in
comparison to her tonnage—a type that has since been
discarded for the beamy light-draught, big carriers of
to-day. Vessels of the Quiraing type are always ugly in
a seaway when coal-laden, and many have gone under,
leaving none to tell the tale. Technically, when deep-
loaded and heeled-over by the action of wind or sea,
“ their metacentric height is too small to ensure a position
of average stability.” The Quiraing’s immunity from
accident up to the iast voyage might be due to the fact
that her career in Australian waters has been mostly con-
fined to the smooth seas of the Queensland coast.
In common with many others, I hold the opinion that
the system under which our Marine Board surveying
officials are appointed is radically wrong. They owe their
appointment to, and are responsible to, a body consisting
largely of shipowners or men controlling large shipping
interests, whose natural tendencies are to make the best of
the second-rate vessels it is a surveyor’s duty to check. I do
not say that they are under the direct influence of
individual members of the Board ; still, the tendency to
subordinate (in doubtful cases) their sense of duty to the
opinions and wishes of interested members (briefly, to
stretch a point) must always be present. These officials
should be appointed directly by Government, the
positions thrown open to public competition ; they should
be given an absolutely free hand, and, like judges, their
appointments should be for life orduring good behaviour.
♦
The Inevitable Gibe.
Mr. Irvine declares that the State is committed to a
certain public works policy, which must be carried out.
What he really means is that the country must continue
to be artificially fed with borrowed money to enable its
people to struggle on against the obstacles which “ labor
legislation ” is constantly placing in the way of industrial
development. The difficulty of the position is, therefore,
quite apparent.—Sydney D.T., 4/9/’O2.
That is the first warning whisper of the torrent
of reproach which will one day fall upon (and per-
haps overwhelm) the “labor parties” in the
various Australian State Parliaments. The finan-
cial position in each State is becoming desperate.
The period of reckless borrowing is rapidly
merging into the period when further borrowing
must be from reckless lenders—and they can’t,
as a rule, be found; and when this great new
country will have to paint its gaols, metal its roads,
and buy its Marie Corelli for its bucolic school
of arts, absolutely out of its own resources. This
period will be one of weeping and gnashing of
teeth, and tightening of waist-belts, and general
uncomfortableness ; and the fat Tory person and
his newspaper are already preparing to throw the
whole blame of it on the Labor party. Truth to
tell, the Labor party in every State, except, per-
haps, Queensland, has put itself in the position to
have the responsibility thrown upon its shoulders.
The chief characteristic of a Labor party seems to
have always been a willingness to force on
reforms, such as old age pensions and a minimum
wage, and an equal willingness to _ let the
issue of paying for those reforms slide. At
present, they are being paid for out of
borrowed money. When no more money can be
borrowed the indications are that the desperate
straits of the various States will be attributed
solely to such labor legislation, and that it will be
abolished with a triumphant snort from the Fat
section of the community. _ Then the Labor
parties will recognise the mistake they. made. in
wholly neglecting the financial problem, in forcing
up the rate of spending in some quarters without
insisting on corresponding savings or a corres-
ponding increase in taxation, and in meekly
endorsing the 1.0. U. policy. It is not yet too late
to make a sudden change and put Financial
Reform in the forefront of every Federal and State
Labor platform. But it is the Eleventh Hour.
They must hustle to get to the vineyard in time.
Tho Imported Criminal. r ’
“ Stiff ” writes on the imported criminal
The correspondent who commented in a recent issue
upon the prevalence of foreign names among those con-
nected with particularly shocking crimes will find the
same thing in U.S. Pick up any American paper and you
will read that Schwartz is still at large, or that Hein-
bofer has confessed. I am no Jingo, but it is plain to me
that the U.K. is miles above any continental country,
both as regards the crime-rate and the seriousness of the
crimes committed, and I am satisfied that the foreign
Australian, excellent citizen as he is in other respects,
does more to provide interesting items for the newspapers
than all our multitude of politicians.
Against this aspersion on Schwartz there
is the experience of N.S.W., which finds
that the most criminal section of its
population is that belonging to the United
States; then, on a gradually-improving scale of
badness, Scandinavians, French, Russians, Danes,
Italians, Irish, Hindus, Scotch, Maorilanders,
Germans (better than all the aforementioned),
English (exactly level with Germans), Tasmanians,
Victorians, South Australians, N.S. Walers, and
Chinamen. The N.S. Walers naturally show up
well because they include most of the babies.
But the imported Schwartz when brought down
to hard figures, is in N.S.W. as law-abiding as the
Englishman, and more so than the Scot or the
Irishman, and only gets into gaol at the rate of
17 per 10,000, against the Yankee’s 71 per 10,000.
And why these things are even Policeman
Murphy, pondering deeply on his “bate,” can-
not explain. The U.K. has, compared to popu-
tion, the smallest prison population in Europe;
but then what gets a man into prison in one
country doesn’t always have the same effect in
another, so it isn’t always possible to judge by
that. Under the same code of laws in N.S.W.
Fritz Heinbofer shows up better than Alex-
ander M‘Tavish. Of course, a crime committed
by Heinbofer stands out conspicuously —so does
one by Heintzenroder or Sausagestein or
Schmellitsbeer. The name is sufficient to guar-
antee that.
«
Wanted: Boom for the Sweater.
There is a tendency among mainland employers
to regard Tasmania just now as a sort of haven of
rest for the sweater. In that delectable land there
is as yet no Wages Board, no Parliamentary Labor
Party, no devastating socialistic legislation ; and
it is the one State of the Commonwealth where an
employer is granted the sacred privilege of con-
ducting his business in his own way. And under
Federation the Tasmanian product gets free access
to all Australia. In Victoria, it is true, factories
keep multiplying, despite the Minimum Wage
Law, and there are more factory employees now
than there ever were before —far more than there
ever were in the days when there was no Mini-
mum Wage. But one man who ran a very small
brush factory employing 20 hands lately shifted
from Melbourne to Tasmania, and though 2000 or
3000 new workers found employment last
year in Victorian factories, that one brush-
shop, and these 20 employees, have been
the subject of such a devastating yell con-
cerning the “ ruin of Victorian industries ” that
the 2000 or 3000 new Vic. employees and the
dozens of new factories passed almost unnoticed.
If all Victoria had been one huge brush to brush the
head of Time and to shine the boots of Space there
could hardly have been more disturbance. But
just when it was understood that all Victoria was
going bodily to Tasmania (where factory inspection
is left to the aldermen, who mostly own the fac-
tories and consequently don’t inspect), Nicholls,
M.L.A., began to interfere. By reason of
Nicholls there was a debate in the Hobart Par-
liament, in which things like this were said :
The sanitary condition of the various factories was
filthy. It was no use hiding the facts. People could
smell us across the Straits-(laughter)—and while Hobart
was held up as one of the fairest. cities on the face of the
earth, from a sanitary point of view it was most filthy.
On the strength of these assertions, the House
granted Nicholls leave to bring in a Bill making
factory inspection a State function in lasmania,
instead of leaving it to be left undone by
the City Council, and Premier Lewis was
deeply shocked by the revelation and pro-
mised support to the Bill. So, after all, it
seems possible that, in a few years, there won t be
one thoroughly dirty State left to which the
sweater can retreat to smell as badly as he wants
to, and not one place in the Commonwealth where
Factory Acts will cease from troubling. Every
indignant manufacturer on this side has been
threatening to shift to Tasmania and be dirty and
sordid and at peace. And behold Nicholls
threatens to clean up the Promised Land also,
and to start inspecting it, just as the downtrodden
States of the mainland are cleaned and inspected.
*
The Testing of Socialism.
The Australasian’s political “leaders” are as
inspiring as ever. A slab of a recent one as a
sample :
Socialism is now on its trial in Australia. It is now
being tested.” The fact is that at best socialism enables
a small section of society to take something from other
sections in prosperous times. When the community is
hard hit by adverse circumstances socialism has nothing
to say or give. Tested by the times which are its oppor-
tunity, it is blind, powerless, bankrupt—a contemptible
fraud upon human intelligence.
Comment on that sort of thing is almost impos-
sible. Who can gild the lily or add one inch to
the stature of everlasting Truth ? Isn’t it super-
fluous to point out that socialism is a failure,
especially where it hasn’t been tried ? If it wasn’t
for Private Enterprise rushing to the assistance
of a “hard hit” community where would the
State be? The State bank-notes issued by
Dibbs’s Government during the N.S.W. bank
crisis of 1893 were doubtless only kept afloat
through the guarantee of the A.J.S. Bank; and
the deposits in. Melbourne Saving’s Bank were
probably saved by the guarantee of the Standard
Bank and the Premier Permanent Building
Society, and Bent and Matthew Davies, and
Jimmy Munro. During the worst phases of the
drought it is well-known that the socialistic railways
would have ceased running altogether if the private
sheep-growers hadn’t supplied tallow for wheel-
grease, and mutton at cheap rates for the use of
the starving railway commissioners. What would
have happened if Private Enterprise hadn t come
along to voluntarily undertake mail contracts,
gratis, in Queensland this year ? It is surely un-
necessary to enlarge upon the established fact
that the socialistic attempts to run a Government
Post Office would long since have resulted in
utter bankruptcy, if the big metropolitan
newspaper owners hadn’t taken the whole con-
cern under their patronage, and subscribed
to keep the show going. And isn’t every
lighthouse on our coasts, and every jetty m
our harbors, a standing monument to the whole-
souled philanthropy of Private Enterprise, and
the incapacity of socialistic methods of doing
things? Of course. That being so, why in
thunder should the Australasian consider it
necessary to periodically resuscitate the bogie ?
»
A Crown Defender —Once more.
A satire on the Law’s tender regard for accused
persons and its alleged belief that “ every man is
innocent until he is proved guilty ” was afforded
by an application made to Vic. Judge Holroyd
lately that the Crown should pay the “trial
expenses of a youth who was acquitted of shooting
Chinaman One Sin. The lad’s father had been
put to large expense in lawyer’s fees, bringing
witnesses from the backblocks, etc., and Judge
Holroyd reckoned it a fair thing the Crown
should pay, but he had no power to make an
order ; indeed he wasn’t quite certain about his
right to make a recommendation. The Law in
Victoria hypocritically prides itself on providing
legal assistance (15 guineas’ worth) for persons
capitally charged, well knowing that it couldn’t
run the case itself for less than ten times that
sum. For the prosecution of a presumably
innocent man the Law provides an expensive
barrister, a solicitor, a well-equipped Crown Law
dept., several detectives, and as many police as may
be required ; also it splashes revenue around in
bringing witnesses from the ends of the earth, if
necessary; but, while assuring the accused that it
considers him perfectly moral, honest, and quite
unobjectionable until proved otherwise, it stead-
fastly refrains from helping him to prove that, he
is not otherwise —even to the extent of declining
to put at his disposal the servants of the so-called
Department of Justice, whom he himself helps, to
maintain. In any case requiring much searching
of evidence or the bringing from a distance of
many witnesses, unless the accused or his relations
are wealthy, the defence has to be practically
abandoned. And every Judge must needs know
that he is expected to sentence persons who are
found guilty simply because they hadn’t the
means to bring together the witnesses who would
have pi’oved them innocent, and because the
Crown refused to find the means.
♦
Tasmania’s land assessment system is a weird and
wonderful and dreadful affair. First, a local
authority (as often as not the bush policeman)
fixes the rental value of the property, and takes
care not to over-estimate the farm of his brother
Mike or his uncle Bill. His estimate may be
appealed against before the local magistracy,
which carefully reduces the valuation as regards
its brother Mike and its uncle Bill. Another
official guesses what the capital value should be
from the previous guesses at the rental value, and
on this is levied a small sum in the £, the result
being that brother Mike and uncle Bill pay next
to nothing. Treasurer Bird, in the course of
amend men t,~--a§ks for power to resume properties
at 10 per cent, above the valuation, but he doesn’t
propose to do away with the ridiculous method of
valuing, and there is hardly enough energy
in Tasmania to resume anything. And the
resumption idea only works well when, as
in Maoriland, the owner has to make his
own valuation, and when he knows that the
Government is in dead earnest over the resump-
tion business. An active resumption policy,
worked in conjunction with the Tasmanian
assessment system, would only mean that the
valuator would have a chance, to grossly under-
value the property of his enemy Mike, so that the
State might lake it from him at much less than it
is worth unless the owner appealed against the
absurdly low figure put upon his property. And
that isn’t exactly what is aimed at.
+
A Hobart pressman (any politician who desires
to know his name may apply unsuccessfully at
this office) writes about the House-tax proceed-
ings :
On what is called a “ catch vote,” the Lewis-Bird Minis-
try met with a reverse of 14 to 8, the other night. Lewis
immediately adjourned the House to think things over,
the suddenness and unexpectedness of the vote having
winded him, so to speak. The Opposition appeared to be
quite as surprised as Lewis— so surprised, in fact, that it
didn’t know what to say or what to do, consequently the
House rose without any apology being offered to Lewis
for the unfortunate accident. When the House met next
night strenuous efforts were made by the Opposition
people to convince Lewis that the blow had been acci-
dental, that they had no desire to knock the Government
out, and that, if they had the faintest idea that Lewis
would take the vote seriously, they would have made
arrangements to hit him softer in a harder place, or
words to that effect. Still, they urged that the Govern-
ment had, in a way, invited the b'ow by its awful House-
tax proposals, and gave Lewis to understand that, though
no harm was meant on the present occasion, some modi-
fication of the House-tax programme would be necessary
if similar unfortunate Occurrences were to be avoided in
future. So, for the present, things are slinking along as
usual.
»
Queensland Premier Philp has a pathetio faith
in owing lots of money as the true secret of
national greatness. The absentee is simply a man
to whom a country owes lots of money, and a pro-
posal to levy a special absentee-tax on this person
was put forward the other day in Queensland
Assembly. Then Philp grew excited as follows :
History would show that the whole of the industries in
Queensland had been opened up by people living outside.
Take the sugar industry and sheep farming for instance,
which had all been opened up by New South Wales and
Victorian people who had spent their money here. It
was a mistake to do anything which might have the effect
of sending away capital already invested here, or pre-
venting other capital from coming in. The great cry now
was for more work for the people ; but an absentee-tax
would cause people who had money invested here, and
who did not care to live here, to sell out and take their
money away. They did not want this. They wanted
money spent in the colony.
Philp’ s alarm lest legislation should lift the
mortgage, and scare away the debt that is already
in Queensland, and prevent more debt .arriving,
and stop the outflow of interest, and compel the
absentees to sell out-to local men so that Queens-
land may own some of its own industries, would
be comic if it hadn’t so many of the elements of
sordid tragedy.
Pious Politicians.
It has been said that people cannot be made
sober, or even virtuous, by Act of Parliament.
The reason, perhaps, is that up-to-date Members
of Parliament themselves have not been con-
spicuous for virtue or sobriety. We know what
happened to those who touched the Ark with
profane hands. But the Christian Endeavour
Society is going to alter this state of affairs.
Speaking at a meeting of that body held in
Sydney Y.M.C. A. Hall, the other evening, the
Rev. James became greatly uplifted by the spirit
and said: “If we could make every one of the
politicians a Christian Endeavourer there would
be a great upraising and purifying of public life
(cheers). The more fear of God they got into
their representatives the better it would be for the
people. Politicians should fear the will of God
first, and the will of the people afterwards ; and
if the will of the people was not on a line with
that of God, then, even at the risk of losing their
seats, that will should be disregarded.” _ Noble
sentiments. But how are these chosen politicians
to make sure as to which is really the will of God
in any given ease—the closing of Public Libraries
on Sundays, for instance? The clergy will ex-
pound :
Vox populi vox Dei ? No,
It is a heathen lie:
Vox clerici vox Dei —so
The churches all reply.
It needs no learning polygot
To prove this statement true—
The will of Gon is always whab
The clergy wish to do.
God is conservative. For why ?
Because, with humour grim,
Progressive statesmen they might try
Their hands reforming Him.
To bring Good Times so long desired,
And with Bad Times to cope,
No carnal talents are required—
But simply Faith and Hope.
When under Drought and Debt we groan,
Say, what can Genius do ?
Good solid Piety alone
Can pull the Country through.
A man may have the Patriot’s Heart,
May have the Statesman’s Brain—
If unredeemed he plays his part.
He plays his part in vain.
But, if he have the Gospel grip
The State is saved, although
He know no more of statesmanship
Than cows of muskets know.
And if through him the State is sold
And left in evil case,
’Tis better to be poor in gold,
Dear friends, than poor in grace.
Your sinful statesmen they may show
Proofs of Prosperity—
When Armageddon’s trumpets blow
How vain it all will be !
CREEVE ROE.


THE LARGEST AND BEST IN THE WORLD I
The Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York
NET FUNDS, January 1,1902, £71,975,776.
Principal Agency in Australasia; Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
SAWMILL MACHINERY.
BAND or CIRCULAR MILLS, very, heavy for
hardwood timber. Complete Outfits of any capa-
city. BAND RESAWS. BOILERS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
PULP MACHINERY. GRIP PULLEYS.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Royal ’. “A Chinese Honeymoon.”
Lyceum “ Riding to Win.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Palace “ Belle of New York.”
Criterion “ The Lady Slavey.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ Mice and Men.”
Her Majesty’s “ Sherlock Holmes.”
Bijou “The Lady of Ostend.”
Theatre Royal “A Woman of Pleasure.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.—Sandow.
«
Gillette’s much - heralded “Sherlock
Holmes,” at the Adelaide Royal, proves to be
a good acting play, with very little of the book
about it, excepting for bits of dialogue, in which
Holmes guesses what Dr. Watson has had for
breakfast. It is nearly all pure melodrama from
th&beginning, where Alice Faulkner is tortured
to make her give up the “papers,” to the end,
where Moriarty is removed in handcuffs. Of
comic relief there is hardly any, and the feminine
interest is of the slightest, though at the end
Sherlock allows Alice to embrace him, which is
foreign to his character. The great scene
in the gas-chamber is well worked up, but
had injudiciously been altogether given away
by preliminary pars. So the whole audience
knew, when S.H. smashed the lamp and was
tracked by his cigar, that he would simply place
it on the window-sill and get away to the door
while they rushed it. The character of Moriarty
is well worked up from the few hints given in the
book, and at the end he is ingeniously made to
foreshadow another and a fatal meeting on the
Continent. This leaves an opening for another
Holmes drama later on. The acting all round is
excellent. The play is written in the American
language, which is becoming more condensed and
more unlike the English language every day. But
it is a good show, and a safe draw anywhere. It
ran for one week only, the scenery having to go
on to Melbourne, and the co. filled up with
“Secret Service.” Meanwhile, Holloway, at the
little Tivoli, is being (if possible) more gory than
before.
* ¥f at *
On Saturday last, at Sydney Lyceum,
Bland Holt staged “ Riding to Win,” a
drama that rests a good deal of bad senti-
ment and many illogical, not to say foolish,
actions, on good scenery, a bicycle race and
a dog. All of them bear up under the dread-
ful weight—especially the dog. He is a discern-
ing animal, for whenever the characters are
obliged to be more tiresome than usual, he strolls
round biting a stick in an ostentatious manner,
and so drowning the remark that every cloud has
a silver lining. At other times when told to leave
the boards, he takes most of himself to the side
scenes, but waves-a lonely tail at the audience, as
if loth to leave his admirers quite bereft. As
usual the stolen notes are found on Baker, and the
only man who could explain the mystery has gone
to the S’African war, Boerland being of late a
useful dumping ground for the inconvenient stage
person who could smash up the plot in Act I if
not hurried away. Baker has got so accustomed
to having the notes found on him that he doesn’t
mention who gave them to him, or try to clear
himself in any way; he merely says, to himself
that he won’t cast suspicion on the African man,
who, later on, varies the usual proceeding
by getting drowned instead of shot. Baker then
takes his subterranean voice and his load of
obloquy to the banks of the Yarra in order to give
Bland Holt a chance of putting real water
behind the footlights. Boats float on and off
the stage in a realistic manner, and the circum-
stance that one oarsman, on opening night,
rooted up two trees and one rock, is an incident
that present writer would not dream of men-
tioning.
» * * *
A girl in pink who wants her good name
restored, and otherwise proves troublesome to the
villain is pushed into the river that she may
be rescued by the dog, who does his work in a
frolicsome spirit, afterwards, with great sagacity,
refusing to rescue the villain. The next act or so
partly occupies itself with the pink girl in a dry
condition and accompanied by pa, the boat-
builder. She demands her lost name over again,
and villain Albert Norman agrees to give her
his through the persuasion of the boatbuilding
father’s revolver. This leap into matrimony is
alluded to on the programme as the way of the
transgressor, which is hard. Meanwhile, Baker’s
name is cleared by the discovery of the African
man’s drowned diary, and Frances Ross’s father,
in consequence, remarks that he will make a new
will, which fatal determination naturally results
in the murder of this old gentleman after
he has gone to bed by sitting upright
in a chair. When an actor means to go
to bed in a very realistic manner, he takes his
boots off before sitting down in a chair ; but this
is only done on great occasions. Baker and
Frances Ross, having no money and no furniture,
and nothing but Baker’s blighted character to live
upon (it gets blighted more about this time),
decide to get married and settle down in a large
kitchen, where they starve in a manner that
reflects discredit on the Melbourne Charitable
Aid system. Stimulated by some potatoes which
Bland Holt cooks publicly, Baker determines to
win the great bicycle race, and it is understood
that if he does, all the clouds will roll away.
Consequently, a good deal of scenery, with a
policeman in it, is seen rushing past some half-
dozen slightly moving bikes, till at the end
Baker’s machine goes a few inches in front of the
others and wins. Another scene, consisting of
hundreds of people, mostly’ dummy, cheering
Baker, flashes on and off the stage, and peace
descends at the boathouse, where the villain is
arrested for the murder in a hurried manner, and
rather as if it were an afterthought on the part of
the playwright. “ Riding to Win ” is a picture-
sque, jerry-built, and inconsequential drama that
would tumble to pieces if the bicycle race scene
were taken from it, or the Yarra, or the dog.
* * * •
Frances Ross, as the daughter of the Old
Identity who dies in his boots, is at her best in
Act 1., and probably as good as the part will let
her be in the next three or four acts. It isn’t a
very distinct part, though there is a good deal of
it. She and Baker merely have to carry a load of
unjust suspicion and poverty up and down the
stage, and make no great effort, till the bicycle
race, to shake the load off. They are simply two
persons tossed to and fro by a heartless world, and
denied billets, till Baker has a chance to reinstate
himself by sitting on a bike while a policeman
whirls past him. The load of misery falls on
Baker without reason, so that it is just as well it
falls off the same way. Bland Holt, of the
Second N.S.W. Contingent, shares the usual
comedy honors with Mrs. Bland (who appears as
Sarah Pecker), while Miss Harrie Ireland acts
well as an irrelevant blind girl, but none of these,
or the numerous other persons on the programme,
really matter to any great extent. It is not that
they matter so much less than usual, as that the
scenery matters more.
* * * *
“The Lady Slavey,” now in her sixth
week, continues her career of domestic service at
Sydney Criterion, but there are rumors that she
will soon cease to be a moral lesson and to love a
millionaire for himself alone, and that the unpaid-
for O’Neill residence will shortly be a thing of the
past. Charles Kenningham and Miss Marie
Alston join the Sheridan company for the next
production.
* * * *
“San Toy ” gives place to “The Belle of
New York ” at Sydney Palace this Saturday, and
Mr. Williamson’s Musical Comedy Co. will be put
to the test of reviving a piece which was originally
produced here by a strong American co. “The
Belle ” is a very bright absurdity, full of smart
Yankee humor and catchy music, and so favorable
has been the impression made by the Palace co.’s
work in . “ San Toy ” that the public is quite pre-
pared to believe, and to hope, that it will do
justice to the star of Gotham.
* * * *
The “ Chinese Honeymoon ” has pro-
spered greatly at Sydney Royal all last week.
Why it should have been so The Bulletin makes
no attempt to guess. The first warm, dry breath
of summer has blown on the dreadful mother-in-
law, and she has looked even older, drier, and
more like a ringbarked Joss than she looked
before. The huge, shining countenance of the
Chinese Emperor has shone a little extra as the
weather grew warmer. Josephine Stanton’s
comely legs are still buried in the two loose, flap-
ping perpendicular tunnels of her Chinese cos-
tume, and other things are as before. No ex-
planation has been tendered as to why the cockney
waitress conceived the idea of wearing a reddish
streak across her face, as if she had unwisely
put her countenance on the edge of a hot stove.
The “Chinese Honeymoon” is probably an
attempt at Gilbert’s peculiar variety of inverted
humor, but in inefficient hands the joke that Gil-
bert used to turn upside down merely subsides on
its back, and remains there like any other drunk.
In particular the Irish-looking admiral, who is
despatched in a warship to find a nice girl who, on
seeing the emperor’s photo, and being informed
that he is a Chinese bill-poster in low circum-
stances, will agree to marry him for love alone,
is not funny ; the joke round which he revolves is
an industrious and hard-working joke and that is
all. Mr. Pineapple’s ill-selected complexion is not
amusing either. And as already hinted the rush
on the stairs of the Royal is a very large rush
indeed.
* * * *
Re-appearance of Miss Dorothy Yane
(now Mrs. Menzies) on the Sydney stage brought
an unusually large audience to the Tivoli on
Saturday, and there was an unwonted air about
the theatre of haughty lorgnettes and floral com-
pliments. Miss Vane came back to the stage
temporarily with the purpose' of collecting
money for the sufferers by the Mt. Kembla
disaster. Her salary (£5O) goes to the
fund, and she makes an appeal each night,
which promises to realise over £5O. So her
donation will be a handsome one. A song, “ The
Earth-encompassed Miner,” modelled on Kip-
ling’s “ Absent-minded Beggar,” was sung with
sweetness and sympathy by Miss Yane; but an
item from the “ Geisha ” was not at all successful,
The “gems” of comic opera, as it is nowadays,
are but poor stuff outside of their setting. Cinque-
valli (whose season approaches its close) and the
Drews are still strong attractions at the Tivoli.
* * * *
The “Mikado,” staged by the Railway
and Tramway Musical Society in Sydney last
Monday night, wasn’t, of course, the “Mikado”
at all; but in all other respects it was not so
deplorable as might have been expected. The
insult to Gilbert was greater than the odium cast
on Sullivan, but the Railway tram drowned
both insults every minute or two, and added
a slaughtered top note to its other victims.
The Railway institute is a tall, unknown building
situated somewhere near the cemetery that is to
become a station. The co. which appeared there
is not bad from the amateur standpoint; it
possesses one or two good voices, and every
person was word-perfect, which is better than it
sounds.
* * * *
“A Woman of Pleasure,” the new and
expensive spectacle at Melb. Royal, is a some-
what different development of lunacy in melo-
drama. The suffering heroine and her noble-
hearted Jack have been left out of the fiction,
and the only noticeably virtuous character is a
parson who walks around professing an earnest
Christian readiness to biff creation. As a matter
of fact, the shepherd seems incapable of raising
a biff when a wicked major smacks his reverend
nose with a loose pair of gloves. Providence,
however, preserves the smitten lamb from further
violence by sending a casual villager to attack the
majah from the rear, and two acts later that
typical military person is shot by Inman because
he wants to escape from a burning troopship in a
small boat reserved for women and children. This
is after the Majah has eloped with Inman’s
wife in a balloon, owing to natural love and affec-
tion for the lady, she having compelled Inman to
marry her by threatening (in the prologue) to
get him hanged if he didn’t. Otherwise, she
seems a well-meaning wife enough. Her character
depends a good deal on the Majah. When he is
too dead to elope with her in another balloon, she
returns to her lawful husband. The penitent
wears a pleasing winter costume, trimmed with
ermine, and the old baronial hall (for Inman is an
earl who kills people by accident as well as design)
glows with the glare of the blazing yule log, and
Anderson’s ballet sings a Xmas carol to show that
everybody is forgiven.
• * * •
The comic relief consists mainly of Miss
Georgie Leighford, as a stout lady in “rationals,”
and Bert Bailey as her brain softened offspring.
The female portion of the audience shrieks loudest
at the humor of Bert Bailey’s trousers. He retires
behind a piece of scenery for the purpose of having
his pants pulled off, and subsequently he reveals
glimpses of bare leg and shirt-tails to the shrieking
sisterhood. A successful run is assured for any
melodrama whose principal funny man will get
robbed of his under-vest. Probably “A Woman
of Pleasure ” will flourish on account of its scenery
and shirt-tails and other accessories. Anyway,
the omission of the virtuous heroine entitles
Anderson’s latest to all the flourish it can get.
** * *
“ Mice and Men,” introduced to Australia
at Melb. Princess’s last week, strikes one im-
mediately as being a woman’s attempt to write a
play on the lines of the “Sweet Nell” success. It
is lighter and slower in its movement and interest
than “ Nell.” The climax can be foreseen almost
from the start of the story, and there is a painful
lapse into tediousness in the fourth act. The
characters, without exception, lack the force to
compel much sympathy or dislike from the audi-
ence, nevertheless the figures are gracefully drawn
by Madeleine Ryley’s feminine hand, and the play
is a pretty poetical achievement, anyhow.
* • • »
The nearest approach to sinfulness in
“Mice and Men” is made by the giddy young
wife of middle-aged Goodlake, an English squire,
a cross between Squire Western and Peter
Teagle. Mistress Goodlake seems to have been
trying to seduce Captain George Lovell, the
nephew of her husband’s old bachelor friend,
Mark Embury, “scholar and philosopher.”
Mark Embury’s learning and philosophy are not
apparent, except on the programme. He makes
a close friend and confidant of Goodlake, who
is a noisy fool, and he talks of nothing but girl
and matrimony. After having arranged to get his
military nephew sent abroad, far from the endear-
ments of Goodlake’s wife, philosopher Embury
starts his own plan for arriving at connubial bliss.
He orders a batch of foundling girls to be sub-
mitted to him on the understanding that he is to
adopt one as his ward, and either marry her, when
his philosophy prompts him to the deed, or return
her undamaged to the care of the parish beadle.
When the batch of wenches is brought along, on
approval, by the beadle, the philosopher’s learned
eye picks out the best-looking wench —a 16-year-
old foundling, with a dimple in her cheek, and
hair that is comparatively long and curly, because
she never stood still whilst the matron was trying
to cut it short. The philosopher confers the name
of Peggy upon his dimpled experiment, and un-
wisely leaves her alone in his study for 10
minutes. Those 10 minutes blight his
future. The nephew, before going abroad,
climbs in at the window, and his brief
conversation with the adopted foundling,
leaves both parties “mashed’’ for evermore.
Peggy at the end of two years is so far frisky that
she goes to a masquerade ball unknown to her
hopeful guardian. The Captain goes there to meet
Peggy, and Mrs. Goodlake goes there to renew her
designs on the Captain. Also, old-man Goodlake
and Mark Embury, going there to bowl out Mrs.
Goodlake, happen to bowl out Peggy. Then the
philosopher becomes convinced that Peggy, who
has promised to marry him, would rather marry
the converted nephew instead. So he furnishes a
nice new honeymoon-house, and on the day before
the day when Peggy was to bestow herself and
her dimple on old Mark she learns that his
nephew is to be the man. Whereupon Peggy and
the nephew stroll into the house together, and are
heard singing to a harpsichord, whilst poor old
Guardian, in his becoming clothes, walks medita-
tively down the garden path like a philosopher
who has missed the last ’bus. Goatcher painted a
lovely scene for this closing act of renunciation.
• * * *
The minor details and padding of the thin
narrative are bright and decorative, otherwise
this practical country would have had little use
for “Mice and Men.” Even as it is the three
intervals of 10 minutes hang heavily. The work of
the Musgrove company is very good on the whole.
Harcourt Beatty, as the unwise, unconvincing
scholar, is a grave reminder of the same actor’s
King Charles. Sydney Stirling plays the part of
the Captain in a minor key, but with excellent
discretion. Miss Minnie Sadler is hard and effec-
tive as the wife who fain would go astray,
whilst Albert Gran (Goodlake) is the only
one of the principals to overact his character.
Alfred Tapping, Lawson Bailey, Miss Far-
leigh and others fill their minor places easily.
Miss Nellie Stewart fills the chief place easily,
except on the few occasions when she is required
to express deep emotion. Then she is compara-
tively weak. The heart-sore Peggy, asking her
elderly admirer to be kind enough to marry her,
doesn’t strike the true note of pathos, and conse-
quently the amphitheatre laughs. Not remark-
able, seeing that the pathos of the situation is
strained to the limit of theatrical art, nevertheless
there are actresses who could bring a lump into
the amphitheatre’s throat to stop that laugh. For
the rest of Nellie Stewart’s performance, it is a
new revelation of girlish charm surpassing her
daintiest work in “Sweet Nell.” She looks 16 in
the first act, and 18 afterwards, and the most win-
some of Peggies all the time. Present scribe can’t
imagine any other artist carrying out the same
contract in such satisfying style. Australia is
only now beginning to see Nellie Stewart at her
best.
#* * «
At Melbourne Opera House the main item
is Sandow, supported by Wilton Bros., Professor
Maccanncertina, Florrie Gallimore, and the Tom
Nawns, likewise others too numerous to mention.
The strong man’s first appearance in Melbourne
was a bigger success than some people expected.
Sandow runs his show briskly and impressively on
the silent system. Nothing breaks the silence,
save the dull thud of the Teuton professor’s bar-
bells when he drops ’em on his platform and
knocks splinters off the sides thereof. Sandow is
very strong. The constant strain of his mus-
cular condition probably accounts for a tired
expression on his handsome face. When he
draws in his breath and raises the furrowed glory
of his stomach to the region of his chest Sandow
has a waist that the boniest gii-1 might envy, and
when he strikes an ordinary ancient Greek atti-
tude with one shoulder and one calf in the fore-
ground he is surely the most beautiful figure of a
human being that ever gleamed in the limelight.
No part of the performance looks so matchless as
the Man himself, hence the managerial risk in
engaging Sandow. The bloated land-owners and
corpulent importers who usually book seats for
expensive shows are hardly likely to bring the
family along to consider the awful difference
between the average representative citizen and
Sandow.
* * * * '■?
Among the crowd of commentators,
medical and otherwise, who gathered at Sandow’s
private “ recital ”in Melbourne, the other after-
noon, veteran L. L. Smith was the keenest. An
old showman himself, and the son of a showman,
he couldn’t swallow the German professor’s theory
without a lump of salt. All fine muscular develop-
ment is directed by the brain, says Sandow.
Physical exercise is of little avail unless the mind
is bent on turning the work to the greatest
muscular advantage. Sandow having repeated
his familiar doctrine, little L. L. suggested that a
blacksmith develops great strength by the merest
mechanical labor. To which Sandow replied that
the average smith is not nearly as mighty as he
would be if he devoted thought to the making of
muscles. “Then,” asked L. L., “how do you
account for the muscles of a ballet-girl’s legs?
They come in the course of her training without
any assistance from her mind. Perhaps you don’t
know anything about ballet-girls’ legs ? ” Sandow
evidently wasn’t prepared to discuss the question
of a coryphee’s understandings, and L. L. didn’t
follow up his advantage. It goes without saying
that Sandow, with all his combinations of mental
and physical strain, has never developed certain
leg-muscles, which attain abnormal dimen,
sions in the woman who from childhood has been
taught to pirouette. If at the end of six months’
practice he were able to come down the stage on
his toes he would still be a comparative weakling
in that particular line of muscular exertion.
** * *
“ The Lady of Ostend,” which occurred to
the editor of London Punch when he felt about as
funny as the age of that illustrated paper will
permit, is making fair progress at Melb. Bijou.
The venerable mother-in-law joke was resurrected
in Burnand’s comedy, and the mother-in-law of
farcical domestic life sat so heavily on the spirit
of modern humor that King Edward VII. con-
ferred a knighthood on Burnand for his crime.
Fortunately, the old, old female brought a redeem-
ing circumstance with her. There is a father-in-
law who suits himself cheerfully to the droll cha-
racter of Oily Deering. The author didn’t count on
Oily for this part, but Deering gets there all the
same, and in his hands the stereotyped parent
with sexagenarian leanings towards vice becomes
a would-be-profligate of the best quality. Grogan
MacMahon, as the weary son-in-law, suffers from
a needlessly bald head. A faint pretence of a few
surviving hairs appears to be painted on Grogan’s
topmost nakedness, and to that extent his per-
formance is strictly original, but the effect doesn’t
offer a handsome apology for Grogan’s cheating
of the wig-maker. It only suggests that his head
would look quite indecent if he were to wet the
corner of his handkerchief and wash the painted
hairs away.
** # *
Her Majesty’s (Melb.) is closed just now.
On Saturday the house re-opens for the Melbourne
appearance of “Sherlock Holmes,” with Cyler
Hastings in the name-part. “ Sherlock ” has
been produced in obscure sections of the Common-
wealth, with our old friend Plimmer as the
apocryphal detective, but Mr. Hastings,
especially imported from ’Murka, is understood to
be the one and only Sherlock whom Providence
and J. C. Williamson have selected.
■ ♦
One might say of Max Schluter, that he seems to be a
first-class violinist performing on a very second-rate
violin. If the instrument is fine in tone, then the skilful
Danish artist doesn’t make the best use of it. Anyhow,
Musin of yore produced warmer effects with his violin,
though his platform personality was not so fetching as
Schluter’s.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Maoriland State Land Bank closed its
best year up to date (the seventh year of its existence) on
31st March, 1902. This office began with a large debit
balance, and acquired other debit balances later on, by
borrowing its capital in England at 3 per cent, and con-
sequently having to sell its loans considerably below their
face value. In this respect it struck a bad principle ; the
example of the Victorian and South Australian institu-
tions, which raised their money locally, and by paying a
slightly higher interest saved the big loss in discount, is
much more commendable. Still, the Maoriland institu-
tion is making reasonable progress at wiping off the
unlucky deficit:
Loss Loss on
on Loan Deficit.
Business. Flotations.
March, 1896 ..£31.159 .. £105,897 ..£137,050
Profits.
„ 1897 .. £1,954 .. .. 135,102
„ 1898 .. 23,929 .. .. 111,173
„ 1899 .. 17,598 ... .. 93,575
„ 1900 .. 14,073 .. 28,142 „ 107,644
„ 1901 .. 20,325 .. 9,889 .. 97,208
„ 1902 .. 29,452 .. .. 67,756
These are cheering figures, when everything is taken into .
account. If the loss on flotation of loans is spread evenly
over the whole period covered by the loans, each year
being charged with its due proportion, then the Maoriland
State Land Bank can claim to have realised so far a net
profit of about £46,000, which is a very handsome amount.
Only £7208 interest and £1617 principal were overdue at
the date of the balance-sheet.
The management continues to be remarkably
cheap. The gross cost of management (which is much
greater than the net cost, as a good many items are
recovered from borrowers) has been as follows •
Total Cost of Proportion to
Management. Nominal Capital.
March, 1897 .. £11,294 .. £0 15 1 per cent.
„ 1898 .. 6,216 .. 0 8 3 „
„ 1899 .. 6,869 .. 0 9 2
„ 1900 .. 7,267 .. 0 7 3
„ 1901 .. 6,869 .. 0 610 ~
„ 1902 .. 7,696 .. 05 10 „
It is impossible to get these calculations down to mathe-
matical accuracy, inasmuch as occasional temporary
advances make the average capital difficult to arrive at.
Still they represent, even in their approximate state, a
remarkable evidence of economical working. The Maori-
land State Land Bank has now £2,366,700 out on mort-
gage, and its luck still holds good. Doubtless there will
come periods of loss and depression, but the institution
appears as well-fitted to cope with them as any other this
side of the line.
• * • *
“ Subscriber ”: It was currently reported that
No. 2 bank on your list was going to swallow No. 4, but
the report is now denied. Still, most reports are denied.


T3Et^IMC-W , A.'Xrs. TRAMWAYS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Proprietary, Ltd.,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material
Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p.
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel
Sleepers, Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical
advice gratuitously rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated
Catalogues and Photographic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different
parts of the World, upon application. ' A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject toinspection. Cable address: “Option,"
Melbourne. *
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-street, Melbourne,
having returned from his visit to England, is now pre-
pared to purchase approved Mines and Mining Properties
situated in any part of Australasia requiring Capital for
Development and Machinery. Only genuine and
legitimate ventures, capable of bearing the strictest
examinations, will be entertained.*
* » * *
Many doubtful claims have been advanced on
behalf of duplex pumps. Some makers state that their
duplex pumps are “ double the capacity of single pumps
of same diameter and stroke.” An A. S. Cameron single-
acting pump can be run safely and comfortably at a speed
that would knock a duplex pump to pieces. But even at
a low speed, duplex pumps seldom attain even their
theoretical capacities, and the reason for this can be
readily explained. Apply to the Agents, Messrs. W. and
J. Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, for
further particulars. The A. S. Cameron pumps are noted
for their simplicity, durability, and absence of outside
valve gear.*
* » • *
A revolution in smelting furnaces seems pro-
bable. The aid of gasoline has not been recognised.
Ernest de Beer, 439 Bourke-street, Melbourne, supplies
forms to suit assayers, which are marvellous in their
efficiency.*
» * *
The great cost of compressing air for rock
drilling, especially for small mines requiring to use only
two or three drills, has hitherto prevented mine managers
adopting machine drilling. The introduction of the
Gardner Electric Drill has removed this objection, small
mines can new be equipped with machine drills which
will do as much work as the air drills, and at the same
time provide the lighting of the surface and underground
workings at less cost than for air drills alone, while the
cost of operating them is less than one fifth of air drills,
doing similar work, and the necessary power being so
small oil engines can be employed. Usually, however, any
mine using machinery will have sufficient boiler power
available to spare the three or four horse power required
to operate a couple of electric machine drills, and so
reduce their working costs and save time. The Gardner
Electric Drill is in use on many mines, and a proved
succes s. The Austral Otis Company of South Melbourne,
who are the Australian agents, will be pleased to give all
information to anyone interested.*
* * * *
The Commercial World, August, 1901, writes
re the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited :
“It is primarily a progressive institution, its contracts are
liberal, and, moreover, its financial position is everything
which could be desired.”
* * • •
Mine Managers, Engineers, &c. will learn with
interest that the Dunlop Rubber Mills, Melbourne, are
now prepared to quote prices and submit samples of
Suction, Drill or Air Hose, Packing, Valves, etc. of the
highest quality at prices previously unobtainable in
Australasia. Depots. in all States. Correspondence
invited.*
• » * *
About the best Brand for Sheep now in the
market is Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and
is considerably cheaper than any other. It will dissolve
in the scour, and should certainly be used by those who
hope to get a good price for their wool. E. Rich and Co.,
Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* * * *
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£494,910 is invested in the States. Lowest rates and
prompt settlements.*
* * * *
The Government of New South* Wales have
entered into a contract for the manufacture, supply, and
delivery of 13 miles of Mephan Ferguson’s patent Lock-
ingbar or Rivetless steel pipes. These are to be 32 inches
diameter, in 25 feet lengths, and will be used for convey-
ing water from Nepean River to Prospect Reservoir. This
type of pipe has been used by the Government of South
Australia for water-supply purposes for some time past,
and has given great satisfaction ; also by the Govern-
ment of Western Australia for the Coolgardie water
scheme, for which about 320 miles of Lockingbar pipes
have been delivered.*
* * * *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. 4th edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Price Is. 6d,, post free.*
* * * *
A Sure Fortune.— The best investment in
Australia is buying land at Esperance, W.A., the natural
port of the Kalgoorlie goldfields. With a railway,
Esperance will become one of our busiest ports, as the
trade of the goldfields will pass through it. A permanent
survey is now being made ; the railway is a certainty.
Get in early and make a fortune by purchasing a few
blocks before the great rush sets in. Price, £2O a block.
Terms, £1 a month. Write for plans and particulars to
The Esperance Land Company, Nicholson Chambers,
Swanston-st., Melbourne.* »
* * • •
The new find at Edjudina (W. A.) is attracting a
lot of attention. The reef is from 9ft. to 25ft. of solid
quartz carrying visible gold. About a dozen leases have
been pegged, and although no work has been done, Kal-
goorlie buyers are keen on the scent. Several options
have already been secured on behalf of English co.’s
which are burdened with wild cats. In addition to big
main reef there are several leaders, one of which is pro-
ducing splendid specimens. This is best surface show
discovered for a long time past, and high prices have been
paid for options. Edjudina is the district where the
Great Fingall was originally located, but the reef now
found is eight miles distant, and, although close to the
cart-track, has been overlooked till recently.
SWEET SLICED MANGO
“ SUN BRAND ” CHUTNEY
Prepared by Mervvanjee Poonjiajee & Sons, Mody Bay,
Bombay. Insist on getting “SUN BRAND.’’ All
Grocers and Storekeepers.
HY. MARKWALD
174 William-st., Melbourne;
11 Pitt-Bt., Sydney.
and at Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Auckland, Wellington,
Dunedin and Christchurch.
The Melbourne Hydraulic Power Co. (Mel
bourne) has hardly done so well as it did last year, though
things are still good with it :
Profits Added jj e _
less Depre- Dividends to _ pwpq
ciation. Reserves. Berves-
-1893 £10,039 10 per cent. = £7500 £2539 £4,290
1894 10,667 10 „ „ 8186 2481 6,771
1895 11,380 10 „ „ 9000 2380 9,151
1896 8,935 10 „ „ 9000 9,086
1897 11,029 10 „ „ 9000 2029 11,116
1898 11,886 10 „ „ 9000 2886 14,001
1899 12,262 10 „ „ 9000 3262 17,263
1900 1 2,381 10 „ „ 9000 3381 20,644
1901 12,356 10 „ „ 9000 3356 24,000
1902 12,005 10 „ „ 9753 2252 26,252
New Share Premiums carried to reserves 114 26,366
The reserves consist of sinking fund, £13,345 ; deprecia-
tion reserve, £11,932 ; and undivided profit, £lOB9.
* * * •
Seeing that it is an understood thing now in
Australia that no State should be expected to do any
public works of the slightest importance, except out of
loans—what is it proposed should be done when loans
can’t be obtained ? A time must come when they can't be
obtained. The debt of the Commonwealth has gone up
in 20 years from £2B to nearly £6O per inhabitant, and
this country has hardly done more than make a beginning
yet at its necessary public works. There must come a
day when we will owe as much per inhabitant as the
British lender cares to trust us with. Then we must
either relapse into barbarism, build no more roads,
sewers, waterworks, bridges, telegraphs, railways, tram-
ways, &c., and let the old works gradually cave in and
perish—or we must find out that we can do all these
things without loans. We must find that we can do that
some day, unless Australia is going to be a failure among
nations. Why not find it out now?
* * • *
The Modern Permanent Building and Invest-
ment Society (Melbourne), one of those large institutions
(its capital is £198,897 paid up, so it is bigger than a good
many banks) for which the southern city was famous in the
land-boom times, closed its 32nd year on 31st July, 1902.
It wasn’t a very good year, still it seems to mark a turning
point in the history of an institution whose luck, of late,
has been considerably out, and the turning point is in
the right direction:
Loss on
Trading Property Total Reserves.
Loss. Sales. Loss.
July, 1895 £44,121
„ 1896 .. £3479 £7,952 £11,431 32,690
„ 1897 .. 1193 6,318 7,511 25,179
„ 1898 .. 1671 8,677 10,348 14,831
Profit. Deficit.
„ 1899 .. 281 15,750 15,469 638
„ 1900 .. 9 5,593 5,584 6,222
„ 1901 .. 1591 6,548 4,957 11,179
Total Profit.
„ 1902 .. 2384 834 1,550 9,629
This is the first time for a very long while that the earn-
ings have exceeded the loss on property sales and the
final result has been a profit. The process of reducing
the deficit has at last made a definite commencement.
The Modern Permanent Building and Invest-
ment Society is wisely “going slow” at the process of
realising its foreclosed properties, though the result, of
course, is that it has also to go slower than it otherwise
might at the redemption of its debenture liability. The
figures for the last six years have been
Owing on „.. ™
Debentures and , 2?
Mortgages. dunn « Year ‘
1897 ... £460,590 ..
1898 ... 442,698 .. £17,892
1899 .. 413,898 .. 28,800
1900 .. 398,337 .. 15,561
1901 .. 394,868 .. 3,469
1902 .. 381,977 .. 12,891
In addition to paying off £78,613 of liabilities, the society
has cleared away an overdraft of nearly £4OOO, and has
accumulated nearly £46,000 of liquid assets, mostly
Government debentures—so the progress is respectable.
One notable economy is that it insures its own pro-
perties against fire, and, after meeting all losses, it has
accumulated, in five years, an insurance fund of
£957. This is an idea that some other institutions might
follow with advantage. There is doubtless still a con-
siderable amount of depreciation to be provided for on
the Society’s £448,000 of propert3' and mortgages. Con-
sidering that the profit of £2384 which the business
realised last year would only have paid £1 ss. 2d. per
cent, on the £189,269 of capital that is alleged to be
intact it can hardly be otherwise. Still respectable pro-
gress is being made, though there is no prospect that the
big Society will get on an even keel again and become a
dividend-paying institution for a long time. It is pro-
posed to make another arrangement with the debenture-
holders under which they will receive 2s. 6d. in the £
next year, and Is. 3d. in the £ annually thereafter.
• * * *
Notice of two Bills dealing with the time-pay-
ment-furniture disease has been given in N.S.W. Assem-
bly. One provides that no woman may be imprisoned for
refusing to obey an order of the court to surrender the
time-payment “ sticks.” If her husband, or any other
male, is a party to the agreement, he may be imprisoned,
however, though the husband is not responsible unless he
is a party to the agreement. Why a man should go to
gaol under circumstances where a woman doesn’t go it is
ridiculously hard to imagine, and as a man’s time is
worth more, as a rule, than a woman’s, the idea is waste-
ful as well. The other Bill proposes to enact that if the
instalments fall in arrear the time-payment man can only
seize the goods upon refunding 90 per cent. (18s. in the
£) of the amount already paid on them. This is
calculated to do a lot of good in the case of the worst
variety of t.p. cormorant. Also, it may make him sell
better goods, or give shorter credit, or do something. If
a man buys £lOO worth of goods, and in the course of
18 months has paid £9O and then defaults, the seller,
under this system, would have to pay back £Bl to recover
the sticks. The £9 profit would give him 6 per cent per
annum on the nominal value of his goods (or more likely
12 per cent, on their real value) for the time they have
been out of his possession, and leave nothing for depre-
ciation. And the ordinary time-payment gim-cracks
perish so rapidly that they probably wouldn’t be worth
£3O after 18 months. Anyhow, as the time-payment man
probably only paid £4O or £5O for the goods when new,
he would shudder pretty hard at the idea of refunding
£Bl to get them back when they were old. Probably the
t.p. gentleman will devise some way of dodging the law-
supposing the Bill becomes law. If he doesn’t, the
destruction of the t.p. industry doesn’t matter much. It
leads to fraud, strife, bailiffs, unsettled habits, rickety
furniture, and many other evils.
* * * *
The Economic Permanent Building Society
(Melbourne) has done much better this year so far as its
trading profit is concerned, but the loss on realisation of
property still continues :
Business Loss on Total Re-
Loss. Property. Loss. serves.
June, 1895.. £4,786
„ 1896.. £29 £746 £775 4,011
~ 1897 .. 135 2,044 2,179 1,832
£lOOO capital written off and carried to Reserves 2,832
June, 1898 .. 77 849 926 1,906
Profit.
„ 1899 .. 136 145 9 1,897
„ 1900 .. 79 956 877 1,020
Deficit.
» 1901 .. 335 2,184 1,849 829
» 1902 .. 1,045 2,020 975 1,804
The Economic has paid-up capital £42,640, so, after de-
ducting the deficit, there is £40,836 still nominally intact.
The gross income last year (£2,285) represented £4 6s. Id.,
and the net return (£1045) was equal to £1 19s. 4d. per
cent, on the book value of the investments. Also, the
profit of the business (if it hadn’t been swallowed up by
losses on property sales) would have been sufficient to pay
a 2 per cent, dividend and leave something over. Under
these circumstances, and considering the great improve-
ment in the earnings of the business, the position is very
far from hopeless. Good progress is being made at paying
off the liabilities, recent figures being :
OWING TO DEPOSITORS AND ALL OTHER CREDITORS.
1897 .. .. £23,542 1900 .. .. £20,779
1898 .. .. 22,822 1901 .. .. 16,356
1899 .. .. 22,380 1902 .. .. 12,374
If the earnings keep up to the present figure, or make a
further improvement, it might be worth while for the
Economic to simply pay off the rest of its liabilities
gradually out of profits, to write down its properties by-
degrees as profits admit, and to cease for a while forcing
sales on a depressed market, and to nurse the assets
instead. The position doesn’t look anything like bad
enough to call for any violent processes of realisation. If
the Economic could persuade its shareholders to put up
some preference capital and go into active business again
it would be better still. Australia is dotted over with
institutions of various degrees of solvency, which are
doing no new business, but paying off their depositors
and realising their assets by slow degress. Naturally,
they grow smaller and smaller, and in a very small in-
stitution the proportion of the earnings which is
swallowed up by working expenses is necessarily very
heavy.
• • • •
The Queen Building Society (Melbourne)
closed a very moderate year on 31st July. The writer
has only the figures for a very few years at command :
Business Loss on Total T . n •,
Loss. Property. Loss. LienciC.
July, 1897 £1769
„ 1898 .. £289 £447 £736 2505
Profit.
„ 1899 .. 89 726 637 8142
Loss.
„ 1900 .. 85 1267 1352 4494
Profit.
„ 1901 209 476 267 4761
„ 1902 .. 63 100 37 4798
The Queen Building Society has a paid-up capital of
£32,058, so, on paper, the amount still intact is £27,260.
As the profit shown represents less than ss. per cent, on
the alleged surviving capital, however, the chances of the
shareholders look far from brilliant. Very good progress
is being made at paying off the liabilities, which of late
years have totalled as follows :
Owing to Depositors and Other Creditors.
1898 .. £15,466 ( 1901 .. £9202
1899 .. 14,477 1902 .. 5468
1900 .. 11,979 I
The Queen Building Society suffers from the same trouble
as many other convalescent institutions. With the sale
of properties and repayment of deposits it is becoming a
very small institution, and as a very small institution
requires an office, directorate, manager, auditor, gas-
meter, &c., &c., just like a large one, the expenses,
despite all economies, are apt to be disproportionately
large. The Queen’s charges appear to be low, still it
costs £578 in office-expenses alone to earn £2150. And
repairs, rates, survey fees, law charges, insurance, &c.,
are not included in office-expenses.
* • * *
There are great difficulties about arranging for
the purchase of one dilapidated institution by another,
for the buying institution always wants to take the assets
of the other at present bedrock value, and allow nothing
for its goodwill or its prospects. But if about six wrecks
could agree to share one office, and to have one manager,
directorate and auditor, with a view to ultimate amalga-
mation, a great deal might be done. When any one of
the six wrecks had any spare funds, they could be
devoted to buying up, in the open market, the deposits
of that wreck whose deposits were going most cheaply,
or in paying off whichever mortgage carried the highest
interest. By econoniy of management it would be
possible before very long, to buy up or extinguish
all outside liabilities without sacrificing the assets,
and any money the wrecks owed would then be to
each other. Then the assets could all be independently
valued and formed into one new institution —they would
still make a good large one—and to the shareholders in
each of the old institutions would be issued shares in the
new one corresponding with the net value of their assets.
Then the new institution could start active business with
good prospects. The saving by economy of management
would be great. A saving of interest could be effected by
having one bank account so that one institution’s tem-
porary credit balance could be set against another’s tem-
porary overdraft (the one institution simply paying
interest to the other). Also a good deal could be saved
by applying the joint funds to the extinction of the most
expensive mortgages or the purchase of the cheapest
deposits. The joint concerns could run their own fire
insurance fund. Any institution which had a reasonable
semblance of solvency about it would be qualified to join.
The principal difficulty is that, as most of the managers
and directors would lose their billets, they can’t be
reasonably expected to take any great interest in the idea.
* • * *
The Castlemaine Brewery and Quinlan,
Gray and Co. (Brisbane) closed its year on 31st July with
its affairs on a new basis. During the last 12 months
it wrote off 12s 6d per share, equal to about£9o,ooo, or half
its capital. Also, the bulk of its reserves disappeared,
and a call of 2s. 6d. a share was made. These were heavy
disasters for the shareholders, who have received no divi-
dends for a long while, and are still receiving none, but
it was certainly best to face the losses. The recent
record has been as follows :
Added WAminol
Profits. Provision for Losses. to „ °
Reserves. Keserves-
-1898.. £5,965 £8,591
1899.. 8,614 Written 0ff=£5,854 £2760 11,351
1900.. 10,981 „ = 7,757 3224 14,575
1901.. 9,538 „ = 22,863 1,250
About £90,000 capital written off.
,1902.. 9,026 Nil 9026 10,276
The co., in refixing its affairs, followed a very common
and very objectionable system of accountancy. The
balance-sheet for 1901 showed £154,262 capital paid-up
and £13,928 reserves ; the one for 1902 simply shows
£73,047 paid-up capital and £1250 reserves brought
forward. There is no continuous account, or connecting
link, or exact statement of the amounts written off in
the interim, as there should be.
The Castlemaine Brewery and Quinlan, Gray,
and Co. still looks like a concern that has a good way to
go before it gets quite out of trouble, though a great deal
has certainly been done. The biggest liabilities have
been the overdrafts at the Q.N. Bank, and a large sum,
bearing 4 per cent, interest, owing to the people from
whom the present co. bought the big brewery. These
two liabilities have stood as follows :
1898 .. £107,691 1901 .. £74,409
1899 .. 104,762 1902 .. 50,391
1900 .. 90,970
The improvement is a very substantial one, but until the
remaining £50,391 is cleared off, and also £11,700 owing on
mortage, the shareholders have no right to expect much
in the way of dividends. Another point is that the
largest asset reads as “ Freehold properties, buildings,
machinery, plant, goodwill, &c., £88,907.” There was an
impression that the goodwill item was going to be wholly
written off. If this' was done the objectionable term
should disappear. If it wasn’t done, it should be done ;
and, meanwhile, the goodwill should be stated separately
to show what the paper asset amounts to.
* * » *
The Australia Hotel Co. (Sydney) closed a
rather good year on 30th June, 1902, but good years only
come occasionally in the hotel business, which is precari-
ous at best. In 1901 the huge caravanserai only showed
a profit of £651, and there was no dividend. For 1902
the profit is £3709, which allows of a 10 per cent, dividend
and leaves a balance over. The Australia Hotel Co. has
a paid-up capital of £25,000 and £17,727 reserves. In its
balance-sheet “Lands, Buildings, and Machinery” are
valued at £150,000, and there is a £125,000 mortgage on
them, so the mortgage owns most of the place.
* * * *
South Australia takes a good large share of the
cake for pigmy municipalities. About half of the district
councils don’t collect more than £3OO a year in
rates. In the last financial year Kingscote raised £6O
(office expenses and other salaries, £32 !); Dudley, £B5
(office, &c., £35); and Dalrymple, £BB (office, &c., £55).
The local governing bodies want reforming quite as badly
as some of the State Govts.
* * * *
The Melbourne Steamship Co. (Melbourne)
has completed another very prosperous half-year :
Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
June, 1901 £67,714
Dec.. 1901 £16,701 12£ p.c. = £3750 £12,951 80,695
June, 1902 16,015 10 ~ ~ 3000 13,015 93,710
The reserves consist of insurance reserve, £40,000 ; de-
preciation reserve, £30,000 ; reserve for new boilers and
repairs, £7500 ; and undivided profit, £16,210. Against
this must be set the fact that £137,983 of the co.’s
property (mostly ship property, presumably) is set down
at cost, and probably it might be a fair thing if the
depreciation reserve and reserve for repairs were taken off
that, and the net reserves set down at about £56,000.
Even these would be very solid as compared with the
paid-up capital of £70,261. The co. has over £20,000 in
cash alone.
* * * *
The Excelsior Land Investment and Build -
in d Co. and Bank (Sydney), after a long career of almost
unbroken misfortune, shows some slight signs of improve-
ment. Its recent history naturally divides itself into
three periods :
(Ordinary Interest paid to Depositors.)
Business Loss on Total
Loss. Property. Loss. ue u "
July, 1893 £5365
„ 1894 £3409 £3409 8,774
„ 1895 5189 5189 13,963
(No interest paid to depositors.)
Profit.
„ 1896 1375 £13,937 12,562 26,525
„ 1897 3833 10,240 6,407 32,932
(2£ per cent, interest paid to depositors.)
„ 1898 449 32,483
Loss.
~ 1899 1939 1,939 34,422
„ 1900 1987 65,208 67,195 101,617
1901 342 342 101,959
Profit.
~ 1902 30 101,929
The year ended July, 1902, is the only one in the above
list, except 1898, when any profit has been made. The 1898
improvernentdidn’tlast; there is no evidence as to whether
things are likely to be any more permanent this time.
The Excelsior 00. deals in large figures, the balance-sheet
adding up to £175,754, but £101,929 of lost capital on one
side and of deficit on the other makes up most of it.
There is, on paper at all events, £9171 of paid-up capital
intact, over and above all deficits and liabilities ; and
there is £2563 at credit of a suspense account which
should possibly be regarded as some kind of a reserve.
As there is £62,090 still owing to depositors and
mortgagees the mass of liabilities is still top-heavy. In 1895
the co. owed over £173,000 to depositors and mortgagees,
but £lll,OOO has been wiped off, largely by exchanging
properties for deposits. On paper the deposits should be
worth 20s. in the £, but in the open market they are
worth about 10s. There appears to be no serious inten-
tion of ever doing an active business again. Sydney and
Melbourne are full of land company wrecks, but for so big
a one to be called Excelsior is something like irony.
* * • *
A letter from Tarcoola (S.A.) goldfield : “ Our
storekeeper (there are five of them and two pubs, to a
population of scarce 200 souls) has posted on his door a
cutting from Bulletin, of two months back, concerning
prices, &c., at Ebagoolah (N.Q.). The comparison cuts
both ways. Tarcoola prices : Bread, 21b. loaf, 7d.; flour,
spuds and onions, 3d. per lb.—sometimes £d. more;
mutton, because the sheep can’t be got to an Ade-
laide market, is but 6d., bone and all; sundries,
such as a reel of thread, packet of needles, bar
of soap, all Is., which is also the price of a nobbier.
All tin stuff, meat or jam, runs into 14d. or 15d. per tin,
and salt is 3d. per lb. Miners’ wages are 10s. shift,
though there are such hybrid, cocky sort of wages as
Bs. 4d., Bs. 9d., 9s. 3d., 9s. 4d. paid also for different kinds
of labor. After paying his board the dissipated miner
doesn’t have a great lot to go on the tear with. When
the camels’ trains are late—and they’re that pretty regu-
larly—men are knocked off work for want of candles. In
the last three months nearly half of the men employed have
lost from a week to six weeks, ostensibly on account of
shortage of candles. The Block’s manager reports it
every other week apologetically, but when approached by
an enterprising party with an offer of locally-made candles
no business resulted.”
* * * •
S. Australia’s latest little boom is in compressed
fodder. The John Darling firm has put £12,000 into
plant at Gawler, 25 miles from Adelaide; and another
co., formed for the purpose, is spending nearly £20,000 a
few miles further along the north line. The low price of
wheat tells, of course ; but the increasing uncertainty of
the seasons has most to do with the wholesale cutting of
crops for hay. Farmers prefer to make sure of the little
they get from the fodder-merchants rather than risk total
failure by waiting for the grain to ripen. As to this
change of seasons, by the way, the State’s weather-office
prints an interesting table in its last annual report.
First the mean rainfall for the 14 years (1880-93) is ascer-
tained for every district; and then it is shown that in all
the districts, in all the years since 1893, the mean has
been only four times reached. In ’96, ’97 and ’99 no dis-
trict got up to the average, even though the average of
some districts—the Northern pastoral, for instance—is
under 9in.
* * * *
Broken Hill’s mind is fixed on having a State
something or other. It long sought a smelter to deal
with the product of the smaller mines ; but the Govt.
Geologist jumped on that proposal enthusiastically, and
pointed out that, if it didn’t pay the big co’s to smelt
locally, it certainly wouldn’t pay anyone else. That Mr.
Pittman was a good prophet was shown a little later by
the disastrous experience of S. Aus. in connection with
the St. Augusta plant, which, though it ran for only
four months, sucked the hard-up State of about £lO,OOO.
A recent request, into which the same officer has been
inquiring, is for an ore-dressing plant; and here there is
not room for such a vigorous curse. (1) It will not cost
so much to build. (2) Nor to run ; it can be kept on one
shift a day if there isn’t enough ore for more. (3) Every
man’s parcel can be treated separately, or nearly so. (4)
There wouldn’t be any need to lay in stocks of coke, ore,
and fluxes of varying value. (5) It would be able to treat
silver-lead, copper, or tin. The important point about
which there is a doubt is as to whether there is enough
ore suitable for concentrating, and available to keep a
plant going even one shift a day. If the officer is reason-
ably satisfied on that point, the plant should be provided.
Broken Hill is a for elderly men, capable
of doing some work, but not enough to satisfy the big
co’s ; and this plant would give them a chance to earn
bread and cheese from many little outside copper and
lead shows.
While he was up that way, the Govt. Geologist
should have reported on the Moorkaie phosphate pro-
perty, a few miles outside Broken Hill, which an Adelaide
co. is booming. There has been remarkably tall talk
about the deposit of rock phosphate alleged to be in the
claims ; “ the richest in the world ” is not the strongest
of the things officially said. Broken Hill, people (who
certainly don’t know much about artificial manures),
sniff at it, however, and locally it smells quite unlike the
smell that might be expected after reading the names of
the unimpeachable Adelaide directors.
• * * •
Even the lives of a cat must come to an end at
last; and the B.H. North Central will, when the end
comes, have the satisfaction of knowing that it cheated
the liquidators longer than most. Liquidators aren’t,
however, as a rule, called in until there is nothing left to
liquidate, and in this case there is a locked-up deposit,
which, with interest, still amounts to £1670. Of 134,299
issued shares no less than 97,677, forfeited for unpaid calls,
were sold in Sydney lately in one line for lid. a share.
It seems most likely that what the buyer was after
was the deposit and not the alleged mine. In that case
the grave is near at hand. The mine manager in report,
dated Aug. 8, recommends that “if the directors should
think it advisable to start work again,” a certain rise and
drive should be continued ; but as the rise and drive were
in material “of no value” the directors probably won't.
The man who paid lid. for the shares will get about 7d.
or Bd., even in these bad’times; so it wasn’t a bad little
spec.—that is, if things go as writer expects.
* * * *
A N.S.W. dredge has established a record.
The plant has been running for three weeks only, and the
return was so good as to show a substantial profit. The
first cheque drawn was for a dividend. It is a privately-
owned concern, and the owners don’t wish publicity given
to their good fortune. There may be sound sense in this
from a public point of view. If it were proclaimed where
the dredge is working, no doubt there would be flaming
prospectuses issued for dredging co.’s to work ground
alleged to be in the immediate vicinity of the successful
co., although it might be 16 miles away.
* * * »
Mining in N.S.W. has never before been at as
low an ebb as it has for the past 12 months, but there are
indications of an improvement. Several of the larger
gold mines appear likely to re-assert themselves. Baker’s
Creek, which has been under a heavy cloud, looks like
coming to the front again. The parent company has got
on to a fairly good run of stone. Proprietary company
has connected with its No. 13 level in high-grade ore.
Lode having been thus located in this property, there
should be no difficulty in picking it up in higher sections.
Mitchell’s Creek mine said to be showing up well, the
new reef being better in quality than the old one, and the
old one has been equal to 15dwt., consistently, for years.
Myall’s United bound to have some good returns when
the new lode is opened up. Neeld’s mine at Wyalong is
producing wonderfully rich sulphide from the bottom
level.
» * * •
Prince of Wales mine, Gundagai (N.S.W.), on
its last legs. It has been in possession of tributors for
some time past, but latterly they have failed to make it
pay, and as no development work was possible owing to
the lack of funds, there was no hope of the co. pulling
the mine out of the fire. It has been decided, perhap?
wisely, to close it down. In its early stages, when the
shallow formations were being worked, co. paid two oi
three divs.
(Continued on page 30.)


DAVID JONES & CO.
HIGH-CLASS HATTERS
Prices upon Application.
Genuine
Eine-Grade
Hand Selected
PANAMAS
George & Barrack Sts., Sydney
TABLE SALT
Makes all the Food
more strengthening.
From Brocera and Stores.
Wu.hja.’* Ajjn.s: Karriso i & Attwood, Sydney.
SOCIETY
Mrs. de la Juveny, the Melbourne lady
who is prosecuting Parson Worthington, seems,
by her own account, to have had a good deal of
mystic fun for the money she says he got from her.
An interesting “exhibit” in the case is a metal
pyramid inscribed with symbols of Egyptian
worship and dedicated “ To the lodge of the Rosy
Cross, from Isis.” The lady says she took this
monument of hokus-pokus on the understanding
that she was to present it to a visionary Temple
of Isis when she was installed therein as higli-
Sriestess. The Mahatmas had seemingly directed
Irs. de la.Juveny to advance money in view of
her promotion. They sent her a pink parchment
bearing numerous instructions, such as: “Fly
swifter than Light. Be Still as Night. Do not
excite him. (Signed) Mooc, the two halls.” It
seems to have dawned upon the priestess-elect that
“ Mooc ” was a probable Egyptian equivalent for
Muck, and now she has excited the hokey-pokey
of the Egyptian temple by breaking her stillness
and taking out a warrant.
* » * •
There is something like a panic in the best
male circles in Auckland (M.L.) One night re-
cently a heavily-veiled lady, of tall, aristocratic
figure, stepped into a chemist’s shop and asked for
something that would remove a brute of a hus-
band. The flustered chemist said he was out of
prussic acid just then, but expected six or eight
kegs in next week ; if the lady was in a hurry she
had better get something at the ironmonger’s.
She thanked him in a low, musical voice and left.
As she. never came back he expects that she got
something at the ironmonger’s. And now no man
in Auckland who is married to a tall wife with a
graceful figure feels quite safe.
A WEARY WORLD.
The Lady of the Incongruous (who was paying
an afternoon call and was, as usual, reciting
her troubles): “/ have just heard from my
daughter, and she tells me she’s engaged to a
newspaper man, and now my hens is stopped
layin’—and eggs so dear, too—life is full of
cares l ”
Broken Hill, in addition to all its other
troubles, looks with daily - increasing gloom
on its water supply. Two years ago an
expert, rightly or wrongly, denounced the
water as unfit for human consumption, and
it is scantier now, and older, and has had
two years more dust blown into it. At the
bottom of any old-established dam there is liable
to be an ancient and fish-like layer of water—one
not to be lightly, disturbed or recklessly shaken up.
Broken Hill authorities still estimate that there is
six months supply on hand—that is to say if the
water is consumed to the bitter end. But then
who wants to be the last man—the one who drinks
the last jugful when everybody else has fled, and
then locks up Broken Hill, and stacks the key
in the backyard of the Council Chamber, and
abandons a dry lost town to the ghosts and goats ?
Broken Hill, in its alarm, asks the State to find a
supplementary water supply—there is a chance
that Private Enterprise may give out, and then
State Socialism is always fallen back upon. But
where the State is to get that extra supply from
just now it is hard to say.
N.S.W. Statistician Coghlan supplies some
curious information about the home or tent or
dug-out or bag-and-kerosene-tin hovel of this
young nation. It may be generally assumed as a
good sign when large stone or brick houses
predominate; when houses are mostly small
and built of wood, bark, tin, galvanised iron,
bags and slush, it suggests poverty and
discomfort and rudimentary habits. Tasmania
and Maoriland don’t separate wood houses
from metal in their returns, but, so far as
possible, here are the dwellings of the people :
Stone Wood, Lath Tin, Bark,
or and Canvas
Brick. Plaster. Slush, &c.
S. Australia .. 81 per cent. 13 per cent. 6 per cent.
Victoria ..30 „ 65 „ 5
N.S.W. ..29 „ 64 „ 17 „
Westralia ..26 ~ 24 ~ 60 ~
Tasmania .. 22 ~
Maoriland .. 6 ~
Queensland .. 3 ~ 78 ~ 19 „
South Australia is the only State where the stone
or brick house predominates—how S.A. came
honestly by all these substantial habitations is un-
known. Queensland, Victoria, N.S.W., Tas-
mania, and M.L. are still in the wooden stage.
Westralia, still further back, is in the hessian and
bark and mud stage, and its habitation is still
open to the predatory goat and the unprincipled
’possum.
Westralia also crowds the largest proportion of
its population into one-roomed shanties —no less
than 28 per cent, of its dwellings are of the one-
roomed persuasion. Queensland has the next
worst record, tents being reckoned as one-roomed
houses ; Maoriland makes the next worst showing.
In N.S.W. and Victoria more than half the houses
contain from five to ten rooms each, but they are
the only States so situated. South Australia has
the largest proportion of uninhabited houses, with
Maoriland and Tasmania next. Taking all the
elements into consideration, they suggest that
Australia lives rather promiscuously as yet, and
doesn’t dwell in marble halls to any great extent
so far.
• • * *
The Victorian courts have just granted
permission, asked for at considerable cost by two
barristers and two solicitors, to re-open (with
much costs) a will case which was before the courts
(also with a good deal of costs) in 1875, the will
itself having been made in 1864. A will has to be
pretty old before all hope of getting costs out of
it is lost.
* • • •
Apropos the troubles, re-
cent and looming, in A us. rail-
way services. In Yic. it was
made clear that the engine-
drivers are the king-bolt, or
main driving rod, or whatever
the boss part of the machine is ;
and that recalls the policy of
J. H. Smith, who was S. Aus-
tralia’s one experiment in im-
ported railway managers.
Smith, who had a large capa-
city for underground engineer-
ing, recognised the drivers’
position ; so he aimed steadily
at getting them to look on
themselves as the aristocrats of
the service, not to lightly min-
gle with the rest in a common
trade organisation. The scheme
was working all right until it
was discovered that a little
more political pull would be
better for the railways (or the
politicians); and so Smith had
to go. He is manager at the
London end now for the Sul-
phide Corporation ; his engi-
neering friend, ex-Gov. Km-
tore, helped him to that.
At the Sydney Water Police Court, on
Wednesday, Deputy S.M. Donaldson fined James
Reid Heath £2 and costs, or a month, for allowing
a dog to worry a cat. The same day Ethel Field
was sentenced to seven days on a charge of wilfully
neglecting to provide adequate and proper food,
nursing, and attention for her nine-months’-old
child. The medical evidence showed :
Tne child was emaciated, extremities cold, and face
wore a pinched expression. Its clothes were damp and
partly wet. He weighed the child with its singlet on,
and it weighed from 171 b. to 201 b. It was a large-boned
child, and should have been much larger if it had been
properly looked after. In his opinion the condition of
the child was due to want of proper food and attention,
which would be likely to result in bodily suffering, and
would also result in injury to the child. The milk in the
bottle was very much the same as when Mrs. Day handed
it to him. He noticed that the child had a
discharge from the right ear, and inflammation
of one of the eyes. One of its hands was sodden,
and the superficial skin was peeling off. The mouth-
piece of a bottle the child had was in a very filthy
condition, whilst the ear, eye, and hand all needed
medical attention. Upon examining the bottle handed
to him by Mrs. Day he found there was a deposit of tea-
leaves in it, and the specific gravity of the milk was in-
sufficient. It was a solution of condensed milk, and very
weak at that. He had attended the child since, and it
was better now, but it would be some time before it
reached its normal condition.
It doesn’t follow that the cat was valued too high,
but by comparison the child was valued much too
low. In the erratic English table of weights and
measures yards makes one rod. It seems, also,
as if 4£ infants make one cat.
INSULT TO INJURY.
HILDA (sweetly): “ I hear you’ve broken off with
George, dear.”
GLADYS (sobbing): “Ye — ye — yes. He saw pa,
and asked for permission to ‘press his suit,’
and it seems pa told him that it wanted
cleaning more than pressing, and added that
as it was a sack suit he might consider it
dismissed, and he hasn’t been near the house
since.”
Melbourne in general doesn’t know that
it is about to have a Commonwealth Exhibition
at the building in Carlton Gardens, under the
management of the veteran Joubert. All the
available space has been let, and when the forth-
coming show is fully advertised it will be quite as
good a shillingsworth to the local people as the
white-elephantine Centennial Exhibition of 14
years ago, which was opened at the wrong season
of the year, and ill-managed all the time. Since
then the big building has come to be identified
with several annual fStes and “carnivals” that
draw thousands of people through the turnstiles.
Also the State Parliament is a permanent side
show at the Exhibition, and the Aquarium has in-
creased its business by 100 per cent., or more.
Judged by the growing popularity of the adjoining
Aquarium and the Museum attached thereto, the
historic place where Australia’s fattest sons
scrambled for free drinks during the Jook-o’-York
period is now a much more promising pitch for
a three months’ exhibition than it was in 1888.
* « • *
Anne-st. Presbyterian Church (Brisbane)
has sent a begging-letter to Carnegie, asking a
dole from his blood stained millions for its organ
fund. The church is said to be one of the richest
in Queensland. A church that has so little scruple
about how it gets money ought to be rich.
* * • *
It is scandalous that N.S.W. State children
are boarded out to shop-
keepers. The law sees
that they go to
school, so between
the school and the
shop they are
sweated abomin-
ably. Reasonable
work suoh as
messages and
light house-
work —is all
right enough,
but going for
and with “or-
ders’’should be
strictly barred.
The State pays for
the boy’s board, while
the shopkeeper saves a
boy’s wages—sometimes a man’s.
It was no great surprise to most that the
R.C. mission-vessel Eclipse came to sudden and
total grief at the Soloman group, t’other day.
When the reverend (but untrained) skipper,
Father Rouillac, brought her to Sydney from the
South Seas last year, with the help of a couple of
native “boys,” it was due to luck, and the watchful
eye of Providence. When about to leave Sydney
this year, the local marine authorities wouldn’t
allow the Eclipse to depart without a certified
pilot, and refused to consider the watchful eye
of Providence as a fair equivalent. But, as soon
as he got clear of their sphere of influence, Father
Rouillac gave the said authorities’ pilot his ticket
and continued his way alone. Shortly afterwards
he was tightly stranded, and, notwithstanding the
efforts of the opposition mission’s boat to get him
off, he stayed there till his vessel fell to pieces.
The watchful eye of Providence is an accident that
may happen once, but it seldom happens to the
same man twice.
How the population grows
older! In 1901 there were in
N.S.W. 6604 fewer people aged
under 5 years than there were in
1891. As a setoff there were
26,720 more people aged 60 and
upwards. This is the sorb of
thing that happens to every new
nation. It gradually swaps the
baby for the oldest inhabitant,
and the cradle for the set of
false teeth.
* * *
“ Vul.”: Yourpar(l2/7/’O2)
makes Dean Foley of M.L. say
to his male flock that when a
man reaches the age of 25 it
was about time he thought of
getting married, “as marriage
tended to make him better
physically, morally, and finan-
cially.” Compare, f’instance,
both physically and financially,
the average celibate Rev.
Father Dennis with his average
Protestant and married brother,
Rev. Curate Smith, and you’ll
see the latent wink in the
padre’s remarks.
* * «
A list containing names
and salaries of all Yic. civil ser-
vants is published, by command
of the law, every January, in
the Govt. Gazette. This issue of the Gazette
is known locally as “ the Jews’ Bible.”
MIGHT HAVE BEEN EXPRESSED
DIFFERENTLY.
FIRST DINER : “ Oh, yes, Mrs. Smith and I are
old friends. I knew her before she was
married.”
SECOND D INER: “My dear boy, allow me to
congratulate you.”
Australia’s share in the late war has
developed the soldier of fortune. Two swaddies,
who gained a certain amount of credit in the recent
campaign, left recently en route to Venezuela to
apply for a job in the local trouble. Promotion
is sometimes rapid in South American republics,
so they may possibly return in a year or so full-
blown Brigadier-Generals. On the other hand,
when the soldier of fortune applies to one party
for a job, and decides that the salary offered
isn’t good enough, that party always under-
stands that he is going to call on the other party
and see if it will offer better terms. Then a rock
accidentally falls on the applicant en route.
HER GRAVE.
[For The Bulletin.]
The flowers upon her grave scarce breathe,
So sweet a flower lies hid beneath ;
As if they feared their growth might stir
The sleepy earth that covers her.
R.O.
A CONFESSION OF FAITH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sight of the sunlit, open sea,
A full free breath of God’s fresh air—
To watch the white gulls circling free,
And muse upon the mystery
Of Nature’s wondrous harmony,
Is sport diviner far to me
Than nodding 'neath a pulpit where
A fat priest mumbles o’er a prayer.
I love the headland bold to climb,
Where showers of spray salt kisses fling ;
The cavern’s boom is mo re sublime
Than organ’s peal or clanging chime ;
More soothing than the matin rhyme
The song old Ocean croons to Time—
The chant the lifting rollers sing
All uncontrolled by priest or king.
Close by my side a full-lipped girl
Whose tingling touch can banish care ;
To watch with me the smoke-drift curl
Across the bay where sails unfurl;
Her joyous laugh as sea-birds whirl
And tides in rock-holes swish and swirl—
For me is music far more rare
Than fat priests mumbling o’er a prayer.
In churches dim let others pray,
When gold-threads in her wind-tossed hair
Flash like the jewelled sunlit bay;
When eyes, divinest blue or grey,
Reflect the Glory of To-day
Like lakelets glimpsed through arched way,
The world is welcome to my share
Of church, and priest, and mumbled prayer;
JOHN DRAYMAN.


Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address.—
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George street
or King-street, Sydney.*
A SIMILE AND A MORAL.—“What the
dustman is to the dwelling in which we live, that
Hunyadi Janos is to the local habitation of the
human spirit.” Thus, writes a well-known
medical writer.
Patents for Inventions. —Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.#
SILVER
STAR
STARCH
THE
BEST
WORLD
THE
IN
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Australia's
Leading Tonic
Beverage.
The alleged Mexican immigrants, who are
also called Greeks, Argentines and Gypsies, and
look like descendants of Nebuchadnezzar, or the
original seed Aryans, after harrassing Customs
officers and police constables all over Victoria,
have at length reached Melbourne, and are now
camped in the yard of a Port Melb. hotel with
intent to depart from the Commonwealth by the
next German mail-boat. Writer inspected them
and their haberdashery and surroundings, and
wouldn’t give tuppence for the whole outfit,
Moreover, he wouldn’t sail on that German
steamer if his passage were paid, with a saloon re-
turn thrown in. The Gypsies possess two ragged-
looking prads, two waggons, and four large but
fearsome-looking tents that even a squad of Domain
loafers would disown, also one green parroquet.
That’s all that’s visible. The kiddies and one or
two women seem to wear little outside and less in,
and the men, black-haired, swarthy, with shifty eyes
and much silver jewellery, simply smoke the eter-
nal cigarette and dwell, vegetate, and occupy the
situation. Yet sundry Customs officers have seen
much gold in the possession of the unaccountable
wanderers, and they were represented as being
desirous of acquiring land and settling down. All
the real estate they have acquired they seem to
carry on their persons, for greater security.
* * • *
Bundaberg was one of the most enthusi-
astic pro-gore towns in Queensland during the late
war, and an attempt was made to boycott a local
merchant who was suspected of not being suffi-
ciently bloodthirsty in his opinions. But the
beer and fury have evaporated, and the old enthu-
siasm is as flat now as a billiard table in a dead
calm. On Coronation day, Bundaberg didn’t
celebrate worth 2d., nor did it illuminate, curse,
yell, or do anything extra. Even an order from
the local boss warrior that B company should
meet and fire an explosion only called together
eight tired-looking men, and the only thing that
exploded was the boss warrior himself.
THE BUMP OF DISAFFECTION.
PHRENOLOGIST: “Now , gentlemen, you will ob-
serve that the bump on this boy’s head is very
large, thus showing that the lad loves his
parents. Isn’t that so, my boy?”
BOY: “No”
PHRENOLOGIST: “What! you don’t love your
parents?”
B OY: “ Well, I like my mother, but not father.
That bump is where he hit me with a cricket-
stump.”
“ J.” tells a story which seems foolish
enough to be true: —
As the constables guarding the gate at the State Go-
vernor’s residence, Itose Bay, Sydney, cannot leave every
three hours to report to the ofhcer on duty at Paddington
(it being official etiquette to assume that the Governor is
so unpopular that he would be immediately killed if left
unguarded), the officer is obliged to walk to the bay—a
distance of about a mile and a-half—to hear the constable
say “Right, sergeant! ” Paddington, with 20,000 people
and 22 miles of streets, is now mostly guarded by two
constables—each one with his eye on 11 miles of street,
simultaneously. The rest are away collecting rolls or
guarding his Ex. And Dan O’Connor rose in the Assembly
the other night to ask the old, dull question : “ Where
are the police?” To which the short and reasonable
answer is : “ Trying to be in 178 places at once for about
£2 2s. a week.”
, * • *
Melb. R.C. organs say some sweet things
about recent Orange celebrations. The Advocate
writes of a gathering of 3000 Orangemen in Melb.
Town Hall as “a handful of disreputable bigots”
and “ Orange cannaille ” (with two n’s). Vale,
member for Ballarat, is described in the spirit of
ove as “a pestiferous Orange blowfly.”
Dear Bulletin. —The King’s dinners to
half a million London poor were, as usual, made
the means of an advt. for several gangs of society
busy bodies. Only in the West End sections,
where princesses and other silvertails visited, was
there any real attempt at a meal, and the music
promised for the diners was not, except at the West
End sections aforesaid. Out of the 30 dining-
places in the East End only five had music, and
that provided by some of the worst amateurs on
earth ; but at the dining-places at Covent Garden
the pick of the profession sang—not to the ragged
diners but to the Princelet of Wales. In the East
End the food was uneatable, and various stewards
and parsons, writing to the Telegraph and other
London dailies, said that the dinners, contracted
for at over Is. per head, were not worth three-
pence. Certain boxes of chocolate were provided
for the children of the poor, but in hundreds of
cases these were seized by the silvertails as
souvenirs. It was all mean and petty—but, then,
everything is in this country.— Australian, 15
Smell-street, Dreary Town, Fogland.
• • • *
- The latest war yarn in Maoriland is to the
effect that there were drunks, fights, disorders,
and ructions at Newcastle (S’Africa) between
Australians, Canadians, and (principally) Maori -
landers on one side, and English soldiers on the
other; and that two Tommies were killed by the
“colonials” and many injured. It is variously
stated that the row began through drink, through
general ill-feeling, and through a small mutiny on
ttie part of the Maorilanders, who objected to
three of their comrades being locked up for
chasing a Kaffir girl. Anyhow, about two dozen
officers and men state that there was a drunken
and devastating shindy of some kind, while the
officer in charge naturally says there wasn’t, and
Treasurer Joseph Ward—Joseph the Oily—is
shocked that such dreadful statements should be
circulated,
• * * »
Latest “stone-throwing mystery ” at Bal-
larat (Vic.) didn’t remain a mystery long. Even
the police know enough now to hunt up the
likeliest girl between 10 and 20, on or near the
premises, in such cases. In this instance there
was a departure from the usual motiveless folly of
these enterprises. Some £fio wortli of jewellery
was stolen by the servant-girl of the house, who
invented a tale of burglary, and then established
a theory that the burglar habitually came back
and threw stones at the house to divert suspicion.
It is only simple justice to enfranchised woman to
admit, once and for all, that it is a libel to say she
can’t throw a stone. She has, in this country at
least, mastered the art of throwing stones on her
own household roof with an accuracy and secresy
that are worthy of all commendation.
The common report is that
N.S.W. Govt, is letting the old,
dirty, dilapidated wharves which
it resumed at Darling Harbor, to
the previous occupants in their
old, dirty, dilapidated state —that
the improvements are at a stand-
still, the new streets put off inde-
finitely, the great Owe’Sullivan
doss-houses postponed or defunct,
the foreshore railway hung up,
and the bubonic rat back carrying
on business at the old address.
All these things are said to have
happened, or to be happening,
for want of money, which appears
probable enough. The resumed
property is only about half paid
for yet. Even after the recent
£3,000,000 loan the loan-account
is overdrawn another £3,800,000
or so. The property-holders are
being offered 4 per cent. Govern-
ment securities if they will agree
not to press their claims. The
rents of the resumed properties
have been spent for the ordinary
purposes of Government. It is
persistently rumored that the re-
cent sudden spasm of retrench-
ment only came about when
London financial authorities had
been sounded about another big
loan, and had reported that the
time was inopportune.
If N.S.W. annually raised a
million or two of revenue for
public-works purposes it wouldn’t
need to care how the London
market felt, but as it never at-
tempts such a shocking innova-
tion, the resumed area appears
likely to settle down, pending
some more very big loans, into
the same old dirty, neglected, and dangerous bit
? f Property that it always has been. The sorrow
is that its dirt, rats, dilapidation, and untidiness
w ;n be set down to the credit of State Socialism,
whereas they should really go down to the credit
of the awful policy of dependence on loans.
* * * *
It looked like gross contempt of court
when Melbourne Age, in the same issue in which it
published news of Unitarian Pastor Worthing-
ton’s arrest, gave a full and complete (alleged)
history of his previous career, beginning with a
first conviction under the name of Crawford, and
thence alleging numerous escapades in U.S.A.,
Maoriland, Tasmania, Melbourne and Sydney.
* * * *
The “Newspaper Train” Select Com-
mittee of N.S.W. Parliament’s proceedings grew
suddenly hilarious last week when Mr. Arthur
Griffith cross-examined Mr. Sam Cook, of S.M.
Herald:—
Is the Daily Telegraph published in Sydney ?—I
believe it is.
How long have you believed that ? —I don’t know that
it has been a matter of belief. It has been a matter of
knowledge.
Was it not a practice for you to ask members of your
staff whether the Daily Telegraph was a paper published
in Sydney ? —I don’t remember that I ever did anything of
the kind.
You don’t remember treating it with lofty contempt ?
I don’t think so, either lofty or low.
* * » *
The Spartan way in which some mothers
allow their infants to take care of themselves has
often been commented on. Not so long ago one
N.S.W. infant was practically devoured by a
sow. Now an epicurea n Victorian rooster has
picked the eye out of an 18-months-old girl.
Dr. Shields focussed the Drayton Grange
tragedy to a point when he swore, before the
Royal Commission :
One of the primary causes of sickness was the intro-
duction of infectious diseases from the shore. Proper
inspection could have prevented this, but one doctor
looking at the tongues and feeling the pulses of 300 men
at one parade, lasting half-an-hour, was not sufficient.
Measles were so prevalent amongst units of the First
Battalion that it was at one Lime proposed to take the
men ashore and camp for a couple of months.
Lack of discipline among the men, lack of
efficiency among the officers, helped to surround
the tragedy with sordid and squalid details, but
the cause of it was that the Imperial transport
authorities sent away an overcrowded transport
knowing that it had measles on board. With even
greater callousness, the same authorities sent
another batch of done-with Australians in a boat
which had smallpox on board. The Fates on that
occasion were kind, and there were not some
scores of deaths ; but that wasn’t the fault of the
“good old War Office.”
* * * *
There should be a mighty upheaval in the
Domain, and on the G.P.O. steps, and in many
regions of the out-back. Slater’s Inquiry Agency
now advertises freely in London that, in view of
present bad times in Australia, it “is prepared to
pay the passage home for any friend or relative
who has been induced to leave Great Britain, and
has been unsuccessful.” Slater is the mischief-
making person who has a standing advt. suggest-
ing that wives and husbands should let him find
out “whether the club is responsible for late
hours, and if shopping alone occupies so much
time.” Where his profit comes in this new game
is hard to see, but there is his offer, to finance all
the wandering sheep who have been packed off to
Australia and want to get back.
• « • »
Re the Legitimising Bill now before
N.9.W. Parliament:
Here in Maoriland such an enactment has been in force
since 1898 and has been extensively taken advantage of.
The Act simply enables a man to legitimise any children
of his born before his marriage to their mother, and thus
secure to them the same rights as if born in wedlock. It
will surprise many to know that this humane and reason-
able law was in force in the Papal States before the
abolition of the Pope’s temporal power. In Maoriland we
have got rid of many of the mediaeval barbarities in respect
of illegitimates. Thus in the matter of inheriting
property, illegitimates have all the rights of legitimates,
providing none of the latter stand in the way. Also,
under our Employers Liability and Deaths by Accident
Compensation Acts, an illegitimate or the parent of one
can recover compensation; though, curiously enough,
there is no corresponding provision in our recent
Workers’ Compensation Act.
* * * *
Chirpy and comforting “Memoriain” verse
from Age, 13/8/’O2 :
S , David. —
Another year of time been spent
Since dad, on earth, went still ;
We feel he’s right, so feel content.
From mother, Frank and Lil.
How very Australian it is !
* * * *
St. Magdalene’s Refuge laundry-cart got
smashed up the other day in front of Sydney
G.P.O. t’other day, much to the delectation of two
“Flossies,” who were presently moved on by a
policeman with the observation : “Faith, an’ it’s
out there scrubbin’ clothes ye ought to be instead
of stannin’ giggling here.” “Oh, well,” said one
fallen angel, “at all events we can pay the
reformed dears to do our washing ! ” Virtue is
its own reward.
* • * *
From Melbourne Age ;
Tl/TATRIMONY. —An honorable, cultured, much-tra-
-LV-L veiled, well-read ENGLISHMAN, in prime and
vigor of life, holding first-rate commercial position,
broad views and very generous sympathies, but with-
out family ties, seeks an alliance with Lady of suitable
age and substantial means ; triflers courteously de-
clined. Box 645, G.P.0., Sydney.
It reads just like every bagman’s opinion of
himself.
* • * •
In regard to the shearing trouble, Mr. F.
Jago Smith, a pastoralist, writes to the N.S.W.
daily press :
I think that a reasonable arrangement would be for
hand shearing to be paid for at 225. 6d. per 100, and
machine shearing at 20s. The question of union men
shearing with non-union men to be sunk until settled by
the Arbitration Court. And to those pastoralists who do
not like giving an increased price for hand shearing, I
would point out that sheep certainly do cut 50 per cent,
more wool than when the price was 17s. 6d. And also
that most of the sheds which would come under the
225. 6d. rate are small ones—which, of course, are not so
profitable for the shearers—and therefore a better price
than at the large sheds is justifiable so far as they are
concerned.
This from a well-known wool-grower seems to be
a very strong argument for the justice of the
shearers’claim for a “rise.” If the shearer was
paid 17s. fid. for cutting 51bs. of wool, it is surely
not unreasonable that he should ask 225. fid. for
cutting lOlbs. of wool, i.e., for practically double
the work.
• * * *
The attempt, by a section of parsondom,
to make a martyr of sorter Sykes, who refused to
do Sunday-duty in Melb. G.P.0., failed lament-
ably. Sykes was ‘ ‘suspended,” and three reverends
waited on P.M.G. Drake to get special considera-
tion for him, as a “conscientious objector.” They
were informed that Sykes had, on a previous occa-
sion, done Sunday work and taken extra payment
for it. The parsons replied that he had done so,
was sorry for it, had given the money to charity,
and wasn’t going to do it again. Further inquiry
showed that, on the occasion in question, Sykes
had been offered a substitute, but that he declined,
and voluntarily did his personal breakage of the
Sabbath. Also, that Sykes had given half, not
all, the money to some charitable institution. The
parsons then retired from the negotiation, and
Sykes was told that he could either stay in Mel-
bourne, and do his turn of Sunday work, or go to
some country place, where his conscience wouldn’t
be lacerated.
COMMON.
“ And do you really believe, Mr. Jumtup, that
we are the descendants of baboons?”
“ Well, I wouldn’t swear to that, but I feel sure
that we have a common ancestor .”
“ F.C.” remarks that some men become
easily communicative :
A clerkly-looking individual, with a hand-bag 1 , strolled
into our back-yard, t’other noon, where the little wife
was hanging out clothes. “ Good morning ! I’m getting
particulars for next year’s directory. What is your name,
please?” “Sarah Croson.” “Thanks. There’s no Mr.
Oroson, is there ?” The little woman winked at daughter
Linda, on the doorstep, and replied, “ No ! I’m all on my
own.” “Ah ! (he put his bag down) So am I,—now.
(Pause.) Good wives are hard to get—and when they get
a decent husband they don’t know how to appreciate
him.” He was started by now and went ahead full sail.
“ I’ve been married 13 years and was never out of a billet
till six months ago, and because I was out a month my
wife left me.” “ Dear me. That’s bad. Any children ?”
“ Yes, that’s the worst of it. We had two, bub she took
them with her. Now that I’ve got a job she wants to
comeback.” “ And I suppose you’re glad to get her?”
“ Indeed, no. I won’t have her back. I’ve offered to
take the boy, and I’m looking out for a smart house-
keeper. I wouldn’t mind her having one or, perhaps, two
children,” and he glanced at kiddy Linda. Just at this
interesting stage I came home to dinner, and Linda sang
out “Hullo, father!” whereupon the confidential grass-
widower cast a reproachful look at the little woman, and
left without asking any further particulars for the
directory.
* * * *
A Salvarmy touring officer arrived in
Melbourne last week with the news that General
Booth had sent his love to the Australian Halle-
lujahists, and hoped to see them again. The hook-
nosed head of the business is evidently meditating
another raid on this country.
* * * •
Cable item from Capetown, to which
hundreds of Australians are now making their
way with a vague idea that there is a Promised
Land thereabouts :
Crowds of immigrants at Capetown are unable to get
work. The labor markets are glutted and the parks are
filled with penniless “ dossers.”
It is bad enough to doss in a familiar park,
where you know the holes and the sheltered spots;
but to go looking in the dark for a hole in a strange
park is Gehenna.
* • * *
Management of Melb. old Trades’ Hall has
a nice Philistinic sense of the fitness of things.
For years past, the old building has been one of
the most interesting sights of Melb. A big,
wooden, barn-like structure, it was the home of
the Labor movement of Victoria —almost of Aus-
tralia. There it was that the most bitter battles
of labor were fought and won, and on all the
beams of the open roof, browned in harmonising
tints by generations of democratic pipes, showed
faintly the early attempts at decoration, each
piece of timber being adorned with some motto,
such as “The laborer is worthy of his hire,” or
“Muzzle not the ox that treadeth the corn.” But
a few weeks back, it seems to have struck some
genius that the ’all didn’t look half as neat as it
should, so painters were called in. The whole of
the historical marks were swept away, and the
interior colored a lovely pink and blue, like an
advt. for somebody’s dyes. The hall was a land-
mark in the history of Australian unionism.
It is a vidgar and meretricious endeavor to copy a
tenth-rate private bar.
THE lESSON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I heard a knocking on the pane
My room with echo fill
So I looked out-just dark and rain,
My heart throbs-else, all still . . .
’
I woke myself with tears last ni«ht,
Felt you were standin"-there °
Stretched longing hands-but Dawn’s pale light
Showed no one-no one there !
I heard a laugh in town to-day
So like—it stopped my breath,
The singer shrilled “ As once in May ! "
I learnt thy sting, oh Death !
QUITS.


lisl\
RAINCOATS.
the Ideal Fabrics
for
SET OF TEETH ONE GUINEA
Beautiful and Lifelike in Appearance and Guaranteed Perfect Fit. Absolutely Painless
Extractions and Stoppings Guaranteed.
Special Attention Given to Regulating ChUdren’s Teeth.
Mr. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R. 9.5., Surgeon Dentht, 43 Oxfod-st., Sydney.
Sold by all Drapers and Hosiers.
KIMEIPP LINEN
a___UNDERWEAR
Cool. Clean. Unshrinkable.
J. McBRATNEY
Melbourne: 321 Flinders Lane
Sydney: 389 Ceorge-street.
T -° Wine & Spirit Herchants
And the Trade Generally.
We have pleasure in announcing that we have
secured the services of
Mr. JAMES RAYMOND
in connection with the management of our
Wine and Spirit Department.
SWIFT and COY.,
7 Spring St.,
SYDNEY.
Indent
and
Commission
Merchants
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, September 9, 1902.
My Dear Arini.—
A record attendance at A. J.C. Spring meeting.
The tramway service was disorganised on Satur-
day through a car running off the line, and
crowds of people had to walk from Moore Park.
All the dailies compliment Mr. Clibborn upon
“the smoothness with which his arrangements
worked.” Yet I was quite sure I saw an almost
hysterical man in the office at one of the entrances,
telling the clamorous crowd around the window
that the tickets had run out, and that he had
no one to leave in charge whilst he went to get
another batch. Some Americans were among
the waiting group, and they exchanged glances
and smiles, and the Australians standing round
blushed (for the club) like a December sunrise.
The poor ticket-seller presently induced a big
policeman to mind his stall whilst he went to
get more tickets. But perhaps it was all hallu-
cination. On Metropolitan day the supply of
racing books also ran out, but the tea stayed on
tap. The demand for the fearsome A. J.C. brew
never exceeds the supply.
Melbourne visitors took up a big share of stand
and lawn ; they are disgusted that there are no
society evening functions during race week, Two
real Somebodies brought over four new evening
dresses each, only to learn that there would be no
occasion for wearing them.
Beautiful dressing abroad on Metropolitan day.
Money, taste, a sky of cobalt-blue, a temperature
of 65, a big race meeting —of course there was
beautiful dressing; crepey, softly silky, lacey and
chiffony as to material ; and striking every tone
and semi-tone in the chromatic scale. A
majority of the gowns were tucked horizontally
from neck to skirt. Hats, flat and flowery,
drooped over the eyebrows, with a cascade of
velvet loops or chiffon tails, or flowers, or some-
thing indicative of seed time and harvest
falling over the back hair. One woman had
several strings of poppy pods, another had trails
of hops, and yet another many ears of green
barley. The damsel who, in ‘San Toy,’ stands
round as Captain Ko-Fan in gold clothes and
a helmet whioh is part long-handled fly-switch
and part inverted funnel, gave the country people
a treat, for she must have had 100 yards of tucked
and flounced and floating and trained blue
mousseline de soie in her excessively expensive and
lovely gown.
The needlework on many of the frocks gave one
pause to think pityingly of the makers. An
elaborate design of, say, peacocks’ tails and
hibiscus blossoms cut from expensive lace, string-
colored for choice, and this inlaid (“ appliqued,”
if you like the word better) with a jewelled edge
on to a background of something which looks
about as substantial as a cloud of cigarette smoke.
You call this a motif— and wonder about the bill.
A few early Victorian pelerines, trimmed with
rose-petals, were abroad. Lady Hutton wore one.
A daughter-in-law of the late W. B. Dailey was
one of the best-dressed : a pink soyeuse inlet with
the new Paris color-insertion—a Suzanne
costume. A well-known brewing sooiety lady
in billows of biscuit-colored Saint d’esprit,
inlaid with medallions of lace (plenty
of motif) was another Suzanner. What a
lot of women one sees at races dressed like
debutantes, but aged about 50 or so, with gold
toupees and carmined and whitened faces, the
skin on which looks as if it had been done up in
curl-papers, so creased is it. A tiny girl of about
three could hardly be distinguished from her
mother’s closed sunshade, both were such bundles
of lace and chiffon. She lay down on the lawn
and slept, and a sister, some years older, with
stork’s legs, steeplechased to and fro over her
what time Bay Eagle was flying over his jumps.
Bay Eagle was the cause of a truly ugly little
scene which occurred close to me. A girl of about
nine, with a sulky underlip and sombre eyes, was
standing on a seat at the back of the stand intently
watching the race. Her mother stood at her back
peering over the child’s shoulder. As the horse’s
win seemed assured the little girl showed strong
feeling of an angry description, and when he shot
past the post she swung round swiftly, caught her
mother by the latter’s transparent yoke with the
left hand and viciously punched her face and neck
with her sweet right fist, exclaiming, “Didn’t I
want ss. to put on that horse—it’s your fault I
haven’t won; why didn’t you give me that 55.?”
That mother has a rod getting nicely pickled for
herself in that child.
They are telling this story of a planter and a
girl. He was a German Hebrew, who grew dates
in Fiji or grapes in Iceland, and visited Sydney
lately, and was much in the company of a dis-
tinguished musician, whereby he secured what
Mark Twain, calls a “halloaing acquaintance”
with persons whom otherwise he might have only
known by sight. The musician had two Sydney
ladies to dinner one evening at his hotel, and the
planter was a co-host. One of the guests is the
daughter of a deceased scientist whose mono-
graphs are of European value, a good linguist and
musician, pretty and prettily dressed, and—a
governess. To her the planter was extremely
courteous. Later, the fact of her being a governess
was made known to him, and the planter man
was shocked. “In my country we do not speak
nice to a governess,” he said. Of course the girl
was told; and she’said, “Do you mean to say
that I dined at the same table as a planter? Why,
in my country, we do not speak at all, let alone
‘nice,’ to an agricultural laborer.”
Marguerite King, the daughter of a former
Soustralian Minister for Education, has taken her
degree at the Royal Academy of Music, London,
in the quickest time, save one, on record.
She is a very pretty girl, and the British
Australasian has a portrait of her. Her
mother, who teaches music in Adelaide, is very
like the pictures of Mary, Queen of Scots—before
Elizabeth got hold of her. Miss King is a niece
of local mining-man J. Wliear Roberts.
Longstaff wants to run out from the painting of
Royal portraits for a spell among his native wattle,
he says. Perhaps he may manage it next year.
He has just finished a portrait of Mrs. J. H.
Scantlebury. . Mr. Jack Scantlebury has now de-
cided to stay in London, where he has taken a
mirror-plated, gilt-edged, velvet-cushioned office,
said on more or less reliable authority to be.
papered with bank-notes. Mr. D. K. Inglis,
another Sydney mining man, who left here a year
ago, is about to return for climatic reasons—
English winters do not suit him.
His Ex. State-Gov. Rawson with his wife and
daughter will go for a trip out of Sydney on the
17th. At Germanton the Gov. will open his first
railway; after that a visit to Table-top Station
and Albury. To be hoped the route is not quite a
dust-pan strewn with bleaching bones. As the
nature of democracy abhors a vacuum at Govt.
House, our own Ex.’s place in Sydney will be
taken by the Tennysons from Wednesday till Fri-
day. It is hoped in Federal circles that this short
stay will avert the gory revolution which is
understood to be brewing in Sydney. The
Tennysons will attend Max Schluter’s concert
on Wednesday. The Danish violinist had a great
reception in Melbourne; the critics were flatter-
ing, and State-Gov. Clarke entertained him twice
at Sunday musical evenings. Melbourne is now
subject to attacks of sub-acute mania of admiration
for Miss “Stonington” Clarke. Her naturalness,
camaraderie and frank inclination for the society
of litterateurs, journalists and musicians, and the
independence with which she declines to wear
always the vice-regal mask and domino, have gob
her a host of admirers amongst people who usually
look down on Govt. House. But we’ve got a fine
girl of our own to barrack for at Cranbrook. Since
an embargo was put on the titled British aris-
tocracy for State governorships (by the reduction
of screws) vice-regal worth has risen considerably.
The experiment might be tried on the big Federal
post too.
The very idea of sovereignty in its most con-
densed form was that “Will my people ever
forgive me ?” whioh was cabled out as having been
spoken by the almost-dying King when he came to
after the operation ; yet, as Sir Frederick Treves
and the other attendant physicians have not hall-
marked it, and the London dailies have since told
us that “ the King asked for George ” directly he
recovered from the anaesthetic, one is forced to the
conclusion that the phrase was merely a caterwaul
of the Press Agency. Pity it isn’t true, for it was
a memorable phrase.
Marriage of Lord Beauchamp sets one specu-
lating on possibilities. If several “ifs” had or
hadn’t if-ed, we have still had him as
Governor, and, with him now Lady Lettice to lead
the fashion in “picturesque dressing.” London
papers credit her with that, and with strong
religious and musical leanings. In the two latter
tendencies she is in perfect sympathy with her
husband. _ Judging by the lady’s portrait she
believes in what Huneker calls “the eternal
charm of fluffiness,” and she probably moves “in
a large, curved way.” Earl Beauchamp is a rich
man, but his bride has a fortune of £160,000. You
can buy the very best of fluff and picture hats on
the interest of that. Lady Lettice’s sister, who
married Lord Shaftesbury, was with the Hope-
touns, you remember, and had a like fortune. As
Li says in “San Toy,” some boys have all the
luck.
Wedding of Miss Queenie Levien, only daughter
of Lawyer R. H. Levien, to Mr. E. K. Tully, a
solicitor of Brisbane, took a nice, pretty, and
popular girl out of the legion of the local un-
attached last week.
A man called on me recently and, with great
fervor, asked me out to afternoon tea, and begged
me to put a paragraph in the paper stating that
he had got his divorce, and not to forget the
lawyer-man who helped him to break his chains,
“because there were heaps more of his mates
who might want the same good turn done.”
With tears of emotion in his eyes, he pressed the
offer of tea or any other drink upon me, and
asked me to rejoice that he was free once more.
And why not ? The public is informed when a
man gets married, and his friends are asked to
sympathise with his happiness. And lots of
people are more anxious to be unmarried than
they were to get married. What reasons against
divorce receptions, breakfasts, flowers, and con-
gratulatory speeches ?
Mr. Goring - Thomas’ concert duly came off
before a large audience on Wednesday, the 3rd.
Three or four people of more than usual ability
appeared. Miss Daisy Thomas, a light soprano
with a clear, bright voioe, did some old Italian
and the legend of the fountains from ‘ ‘ Lucia ”
with plenty of spirit and nerve. A Mr. Arthur
Pratt, among the men, with a fine, ringing bari-
tone voice, carried off the honors with a “Tra-
viata ” air and something from “Elijah.” Miss
Corbett, after a little more work, ought to do
something considerable with her big soprano voice.
She was encored for the grand aria “Roberto, tu
che adoro.”
A roar as of a crowd that had backed the
winner greeted Dorothy Yane (Mrs. Menzies)
when she appeared at the Tivoli, Sydney, in aid
of the Mt. Kembla fund, on Saturday. In her
first song,_ “ A Monkey on a Stick,” she wore her
pretty Geisha dress ; for the second she was in a
sort of Charity-girl costume of brown tunic and
stockings. Her tuneful entreaties to pay, pay,
pay, backed by her baby face and blue eye 3,
brought a shower of money, equal to £95 in two
nights, which, with her salary of £5O, will go to
the charity. She closes her meteoric season on
Friday night.
The parti of the R.C. section of Sydney society
has been secured and by his first cousin too, also a
strict R.C. Now, what about those forbidden
degrees of kinship ?
My Brisbane correspondent writes :
“ The fashionable event of the week was the
Walsh-Latham marriage—the bridegroom a son
of the late W. H. Walsh and manager of Dalgety
and Co., and the bride a representative Irish
beauty.
“ So overwhelming is the debt on the local
general hospital that an appeal has been made to
women financiers of other charitable institutions.
A strong working committee, with popular Mrs.
Harris as president, has been appointed, and a
systematic canvas for a penny fund is to be tried.”
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“The Town Hall tea, with its speeches, in aid
■of Miss Sutherland’s homes for neglected children,
was worth attention, as usual. It might almost con-
vert a miser to practical philanthropy to see all
those practically ‘mitherless bairns,’ many of
them in arms, behaving on a public platform like
wise old warriors and singing like a choir of well-
drilled linnets. Poor kiddies, it was past their
bed-time, but not a whine of impatience escaped
even the smallest and baldest of the lot. Before
Miss Sutherland got them many had been schooled
to endurance. Patient children! Think what
pain makes a young child patient! One tiny
•chap proudly clapped the vocal efforts of himself
and mates. ‘We mustn’t tap,’ remonstrated
little ginger-pate at his elbow. The self-applauder
was palpably proud of his mannish trouser-
pockets. A lady stole near to gently stroke his
thin, white cheek. ‘ These ain’t your pants ! ’
said the owner defiantly, thrusting his paws
deeper into his paradise of pockets. Just now
Miss Sutherland has 10 babies in her room
o’ nights, and it costs her an almost impossibly
small sum to clothe her family of 150. Gov.
Clarke spoke kindly at the gathering, while his
wife smiled and nodded at each individual baby,
and tried to be nice to pre-occupied Miss Suther-
land, who, in her care for the kiddies, forgot to
respond.
“ Thanks to the fashionable interests and
acumen of Pastor O’Connell, of Carlton, his
flock’s Gypsy Encampment started off on Satur-
day at the Exhibition, under the smiling auspices
of some thousand attendants and visitors. Gov.
Clarke was at the starting-gate, and touched the
spring in quite a tactful and experienced fashion.
As he sat down, after a lofty tribute to the energy
of the R.O. community, his better half caught his
eye, nodded approval, and smiled her pleasure.
Archbishop Carr gave plenty of compliments in
return, and talked of the unfailing amiability of
the Gov., his ‘good lady’ and his daughter, and
all that. Then the platform party buttered one
another up—and butter is so dear these drought-
stricken days.
“The Gypsies that are encamped at the Exhi-
bition just now, fleecing the public’s pockets, are
not a strikingly beautiful lot. Most of the pretty
girls seem to be on strike with the A.W.U. this
shearing season. As a matter of fact, bazaars
grow out of fashion, and it becomes increasingly
difficult to run smart girls in for stall-holding.
On Saturday Mrs. Chadwick was the most frocky
of the fashionables, in blotting-paper pink and
modish black, and Lady M'Eacharn showed her-
self the most substantially helpful to the solicit-
ing Gypsies. Capt. Vallange, with haughty mien,
followed their Exes., and dipped into his pocket
whenever Lady Clarke called for cash.
“ There was very little flutter among Melbourne
Hospital patrons and the usual smart committee
for the Castles’ sing-song in aid of that institution.
At the preliminary meeting, held in the Town
Hall, last week, the long-maned Scherek took the
chair, and Lady Williams, Miss Violet Clarke,
and two or three others strolled in, looked round
at the Sahara of vacant chairs, took bundles of
tickets, and wandered out again. It was a most
unattended meeting. People now buzz of nothing
but Melba.
“Mrs. Sandow’s diamonds are as much talked
about this week, in Melb. as hubby’s marvellous
muscles. The sight of those rising ridges on the
glowing pink skin of the modern Hercules is
almost sickening to the feminine eye. It is ab-
normal, extraordinary, queer. The hard waves
of flesh slowly heave up, and the light-headed in
the audience grow dizzy. But the charming Mrs.
&andow and her marvellous diamonds inspire
green envy. The muscle king and his dainty
spouse are an extraordinary couple.
“All the champion she-golfers of this State
met in contest at Geelong the other day, at the
biggest link tournament of the season. Out of
about forty crack players six started scratch.
A local player, Mrs. Harry de Little, won ; the
former Australian champion, Junoesque Mrs. C.
Fairbairn, only figuring as the sixth on the list.
“Nellie Stewart has never looked more quaint
and winsome than in the garden scene of ‘ Men
and Mice.’ A long lavender brocaded cloak (of
Puritan build and simplicity), a shovel bonnet
(like an inverted flower-basket), and a set of
chocolate-colored ringlets, give the sweet Peg of
this piece a delightfully piquant loveliness, far
exceeding her rakish brillianoy in Sweet Nell.
“Nellie Stewart tootles a love strain in ‘Men
and Mice’ as she squats on a chair, back to the
audience, to draw on her shoes and stockings.
The sight of the pink-tipped toes that she dis-
plays for about five minutes disturbs the peace
and calm of the onlookers (mainly male), but as
she proceeds to cover the bare legs in the orthodox
fashion, the women get excited. All glasses are
glued on the provoking back. Only those at the
side can see the performance. Nellie wears no
garters. She gives the top of the hose a cunning
twist instead.
“Rumor saith that King Ned has ordered a
recent portrait of Mrs. Maesmore Morris to be
hung in one of his galleries.
“An account of the petulant conduct of the
wife of .an Australian personage in London at
Coronation time has just got about. The lady in
question put on so much unnecessary frill at the
hotel in which she and her husband were lodged,
and was so highly colored as to complexion and
plumage, that she was presently known throughout
the house as Aurora Australis. One evening,
dressed in a tremendous new gown, and apparently
anxious to have the hotel know of it, she swept
about the rooms and the corridors and perched out
on the doorstep till everybody within sight was
on the broad grin. Then, discovering signs of
derision, the lady took a commanding position on
the stairs, and expressed her opinions loudly and
publicly, till the management rushed for her hus-
band and prevailed on him to remove her, bag and
baggage, with the accent on the baggage.
“ The preparations for a very-gilded marriage
are temporarily suspended, pending settlement of
the claims of a rejected and dejected country lass,
who considers that she has a prior claim to the
bridegroom, and, it is whispered, wants several
thousands as balm for her wounded heart.
“We have no entertaining consuls at present
in this State. Once the De Jardines threw open
their ornate residence on French anniversary
days, and At-Homed the public, but they have
departed, and their successor, the be-medalled De
Passek, only dines the Beauty and Fashion of
Melbourne at an exclusive round table. The
Yank consul, bachelor Bray, was to the fore, of
yore, with July 4th and other starred-and-striped
occasions, but through public mourning, or Royal
appendicitis, or something or other, these were off
this year. And the other day the birthday of
Queen Wilhelmina was allowed to depart un-
heralded, although many eager eyes were turned
towards the Netherlands Consul Bosschart’s home
—an hospitable roost. Consul Bosschart should
really have set the Dutch flag flying that day. He
is one of the readiest and most comical characters
in all the mouldy official world—the first to
wire, to write, to despatch messages of con-
dolence, greeting, sympathy, and congratula-
tion. He must sit with his eye on the news
of the day and his busy pen in his hand.
He is a bushy, fussy, breathless, beet-root-tinted
Consul, full of good nature and varied information.
* I lof my littel children,’ he says—‘ two Persians,
two Australians. That is right—chertainly,
chertainly. Equal representation chertainly.’
‘ 1 There was not the usual vice-regal opening of
the Daffodil Show this year, and a big, high-
shouldered Scotch president gave the flowery
Paradise a modest blessing himself. But good
wine needs no bush and daffodils can dispense witli
vice-regal compliments. There was a big crush
last Thursday. The Byron Moores, the Alister
Clarkes, and the pretty Anderson sisters were
prominent among the haughty culturists, who,
with a sort of inark-the-sparrow’s-fall-eye, traced
every tiny petal in the whole show. The
decorated dining tables furnished plenty of new
ideas. _ The prize-table gained a gorgeous effect
by a riot of yellow blooms and pure, crisp Ice-
land poppies, set off with the radiance of many
electric rose globes. These luminous lamps
lolled oil their petalled sides like big languishing
over-grown roses, beneath and around the centre
epergne—a splendid riot about the garden’s wine-
cups. Another table showed a design in orchids
and mauve chiffon draperies ; cold, but elegant.
“Archbishop Carr does his best to scare his
flock from mixed marriages. When Kathleen
persists in marrying Donald, or Michael takes
an angel who is in danger of being Lost in the
Hereafter, the ceremony, if carried out by an
R.C. priest, is shorn of all grandeur, all
solemnity, and rendered as brief and curt as the
legal contract. By such means Dr. Carr hopes to
strike terror into the mixed marryer, but only
succeeds, as a rule, in sending him or her to some
more accommodating church.
“The Clarkes are popular because of their
pleasant air and absence of ‘side.’ But at a
recent tea and scone show Gov. Clarke drew the
line. One of the ladies of the party, finding his
Ex. genial and chatty, raced off for her youngest
hope (a chick of a few summers) and pranced her
on her knee, and was for passing on the infant to
be rock-horsed by the vice-regal knees. His Nibs
objected ; not because—it is stated on unreliable
authority—of ‘side.’ but because he has been
advised by Mr. Chamberlain that it is unconsti-
tutional for a Governor to dandle the children of
the territory over which he rules—that privilege
being reserved for M’s.P.
‘ ‘ One of the most courted of Melbourne women
makes the uncomeliness of her worshipping and
Eatient spouse the principal whetstone to sharpen
er wit. She alludes to him as ‘My HSsop,’
‘The Fossil,’ ‘Bete Philosophe,’ ‘Dear old
Juggins,’ and a dozen such playful titles, flavored
with the same spice of malice. The men hail
every fresh pet-name as a further proof of her
wit. And her reputation for brilliance swells in-
ordinately. Another dame invariably alludes to
hubby as ‘ Old Trousers,’ and the world shakes its
sides laughing, while wondering however such an
uncommonly smart woman came to ‘ throw herself
away ’ so. Yet he had the money which resoued
this amgel from slavery at a chiffon counter.
Astonishing how much a wife can surpass her
husband on her husband’s money !
“The French and Italian artistes of this con-
cert-ridden city are summoned to ‘Stonington’
via the ’phone these days. Her Ex. and offspring
like to keep the foreign wheels of their tongues
well-oiled, and they use foreign languages as often
as they can command occasion. The artistes
(mostly singing) are well treated at ‘Stonington,’
and their visits are profitable to themselves and
their hosts. This may have some effect upon cer-
tain Sassiety dames, whose treatment of artistic
personages has been long a matter of hurt to those
aesthetic souls. The Clarkes have made music the
vogue ; perhaps they will set a fashion in civility
to bards and working musicians.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
The public is informed that Mr. A. N.
Burton has no authority to act as a representative
of The Bulletin.
A graceful form and -well moulded bust
are essential to perfect beauty. Lacte, the
wonderful “Skin Food” is nature’s remedy for
giving back those essentials when lost through
sickness or action of time, and for supplying them
when constitutionally deficient. It fills all hollows,
develops and gives a charming roundness to neck
and arms. Price 7s. 6d. per jar, post Bs. 3d.
Westall Guest, Toilet Specialist to the Gov.-
General, 229 Bourke-street, Melbourne.


Little Ills.
Life is spoilt by the little ills—the headaches and backaches, the weakness
and weariness, the little ills of stomach and liver.
These are the little ills that wreck health and happiness—and every single
one of them is due to bad blood.
Purify, enrich and strengthen your blood with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills—and
all these little ills will vanish like magic.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have cured the worst cases of rheumatism,
neuralgia, dyspepsia, eczema and blood poisoning. Is it any wonder that they
cure all these little ills so quickly ?
Proof in Sydney.
“Anaemia and indigestion made me a
martyr,” says Miss Y. Dick, Parramatta
Road, Auburn. “Violent sick head-
aches attacked me. I lost all appetite,
and could scarcely drag myself about.
At night headaches kept me awake for
hours. My blood was in a wretched
condition. Several doctors treated me,
but Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills brought
back the roses of health and made me
strong and active. ”
Dr. Williams Pink Pi
Fromshemists and storekeepers and the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney, 2s. 9d. a box, six boxe3 for 15s. 3d., post free.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Member Levy, of the N.S.W. Assembly,
is now commonly addressed as Disraeli. Levy
probably regards it as a good omen.
A member of N.S.W. Leg. Assembly has
a recent “speech” of his printed, and personally
distributes it in public and private bars.
The decreasing N.S.W birth-rate :
FOWLER.—August 16, at her residence, Caloola, Summer
Hill, Mrs. W. A. Fowler —a son, being the twenty-first.
A Murrumbidgee squatter gathered his
household together on a recent Sunday, and
prayed for “a good supply of satisfactory si leavers
this season, O Lord ! ”
About the most recent Sydney bankrupt
gives as the cause of his insolvency : “Lending
money to and backing bills for the Rev. Tremayne
Dunstan.” Yere ish dot barty now?
Cardinal Moran will be 72 on Tuesday
(September 16) and Chief-Justice Darley will be
72 on the following Thursday. Also on Satui-day
of the same week E. Jones, the South Australian
bowler, will be 32.
Rumored that Auditor-General Rennie
will at last retire from N.S.W. service. ' The
veteran’s powers have been shorn to some extent
by the new'Audit Act, and he is said to be not
inclined to fall in with the new system.
“The world knows nothing of its greatest
men.” It now appears that it . was Dan Yell
O’Connor, M.P., who “ discovered ” Melba. The
Bulletin always knew that Dan discovered
America, but his discovery of Melba is news.
“Old Pressman” writes :
Re par. in recent Bulletin, it is pretty generally known
that Jemmy Hogue, M.L.A., has been quite outside the
Evening News for a good many months past. Frank
Williams is sole editor there aow, with old man Perrier
at the political bellows.
“ Korati ” : In the course of a post-
Coronation simper, a North Island (M.L.) journal
remarked “ Despite the fact of his ruling under
a most comprehensive form of constitutional
government, the King has many purgatives which
ne might exercise if he chose.”
Edward Fisher Pittman succeeds Duncan
M‘Lachlan, who succeeded Harrie Woods as
N.S.W. Under-Secretary for Mines. Mr.
M‘Lachlan went to the Federal service and Mr.
Woods into private business. The new Under-
secretary is a Melbourne native, a little over 50
years of age. *
The care and worry of N.S.W. Auditor-
Generalship do not appear to seriously shorten
life. Captain Mayne, who held the post for
years, died the other day at Burwood (N.S.W.),
aged 95 ; and the present venerable occupant of
the office counts well over 80, and can still spot a
faked balance-sheet.
J. R. Campbell, alias Gleeson, the impostor
who made a business of suing Governments for
bogus railway-injuries, and who was bowled out
when, after long shamming paralysis, he went
into court on a stretcher and claimed £10,000
from Queensland Government. Sketched from life
in an ante-room of Brisbane Courthouse.
Judge Boucaut (S.A.) used the slangy but
expressive word “barney” twice in the Hall
divorce-case. His Honor'is quite unconventional.
His street dress often consists of a tweed suit and
a slouch hat, and he has frequently been heard to
say on a hot day in court : ‘ ‘ Gentlemen, I think
we will dispense with all this tomfoolery ” —taking
off his wig.
An orange pip gives some people appen-
dicitis, and others can convert the appendix
into a shot-pouch with comparative impunity.
A resident of Powlett River (Vic.), when a boy,
was addicted to chewing leaden shot pellets. No
ill effects were felt until recently, 25 years after-
wards, when symptoms resembling those of appen-
dicitis occurred. The appendix was removed in a
private-hospital in Melb., when it was found to
contain 42 pellets. The patient is now in good
health.
Geo. Wylde, who has heroically, but un-
successfully, entered the lists of every S.A.
election for several years past, is a real sticker.
Twenty-three years ago he laid the foundations of
his present residence mN. Adelaide. Since then
he has gradually added to the place, every piece
of work (inside and outside) being the work of his
own hands. Windows were boarded-up for years
until Wylde learnt a little of the glazier’s business
and put .matters right The house is still incom-
plete.
“John Downer, the most comical-looking
and interesting spouter in the Senate, ” writes jt
galleryite, “is missed from the House these days by
the sentries. It is -T.D.’s peculiarity to indulge in
smiling’ contortions as he swallows the ill-flavored
flowers of an opponent’s bitter speech. When
lie smiles most during an impassioned harangue,
he is most galled, and members by degrees have
found it out. So that when he leers now at one
who has had the temerity to attack him, and flings
his smiling sarcasms at the knave, members know
that S’John is squirming, himself, from a poisoned
Shaft of wit. Women think, On the other hand,
that there is nothing in political circles so potent
as the bland mandarinic smile of Senator
Downer.”
Strange, in a way, the command that W.
Gr. Spence, president of the A. W.U., has over the
bush-workers of N.S.W., Yic. and S. Aus.
Spenoe never did any bush-work himself, and is
hardly more like the wild and
woolly person that a typical
bushman is supposed to. be than
W. E. Abbott is himself. He is
a rigid teetotaller, smokes hardly
any, has scores of health and other
fads, and is rather “old-woman-
ish ”in speech and manner. But
he is a great “sticker,” never
loses his temper, is suave and placid,
and has studied human nature even
more than books (phrenology and mes-
merism are among his fads); and, as he
has also a ready tongue under the most
perfect control, he is invaluable in a confer-
ence. As a labor organiser he graduated at
Creswick (Vic.), as miners’secretary ; his first
visit to N.S.W. in connection with a strike was
when, in ’BB, there was a row on the Barrier. He
went up there with J. B. Burton (ex-Mines Min-
ister, then general president of the miners); but
the trouble was over before he got through. Most
of the rows lie has had a tongue in since have been
a lot tougher.
When that affable preacher man, Wor-
thington, was arrested in Sydney the other day,
one property found among his effects was an
American pamphlet bearing the title :
The True and Complete History of that Notorious
Scoundrel, Arthur B. Worthington.
Fancy the apostle hoarding up that!
So assured are some people that Premier
John See purposes an early visit to England that
poets and prose-writers are already sending him
large bundles of manuscript to get published for
them in Fogtown. A Judge who tripped to
England a while back declares that the principal
part of his luggage consisted of manuscripts
which, in an ill-judged mood, he had taken charge
of for Australian authors.
A Melbourne pressman :
“ Shiels loves misery,” writes somebody in last week’s
Bulletin, and this essentially feminine trait reminds an
observer of many womanish characteristics in the Vic.
Treasurer. His petty quarrelsomeness, his overweening
desire to make mysteries out of prosaic facts, his affecta-
tion of illness and his eternal neurosis are indicative
rather of the petulant schoolgirl than the strongman who
should hold such an office. Does not Sophocles say on
the subject: “ Women ever love to brood o’er sorrows
and indulge their woe.
Aleck Peacock was given a night by Melb.
Trades’ Hall people, the other week, and presented
with his own portrait in oils. This was the most
gushing event that has occurred in Lygon-street.
Finley and the disgusting Tocsin incident were
all forgotten, and the men who had sworn to
pursue Alexander the Howler to his political
death competed hotly in pouring eulogies upon
the friend of labor. He took it meekly, like
one conscious of his deserts. Peacock may have
been well done in oils before, but he was never so
thoroughly done in butter.
Apropos the assertion that Lord Salisbury
was sent to Australia in his youth for his health’s
sake, an old Yic. identity remarks that he
“never saw a sick man with such an ap-
petite.” In fact, young Cecil seems to
have distinguished himself solely as a
mighty trencherman while in exile. The
ex-Premier has for decades past suffered
severely, from digestive maladies, which
at last seem to have knocked him out. To
his Australian gastronomic experiences
may be due much of this trouble. No
man can load his stomach with half a ton
of damper-and-mutton at a time and
carry that stomach far on the road to im-
mortality.
A Melb. telephone girl has had the
audacity to tell Minister Lyne to keep his hair
on. Plain Bill ordered a judicious reprimand.
The sting lies in the common knowledge that Bill
is engaged in a desperate struggle to keep his hair
on, and his track is littered with bottles bearing
the strange device—the name of any hair-restorer
can be inserted here at regular advertising rates.
Geo. Lansell, the successful Bendigo mine
owner, recently celebrated his 79th birthday, and
is still hale and hearty. He originally went into
mining in consequence of the local Borough
Council turning him off the land on which he
carried on a very evil-smelling soap-boiling busi-
ness, and considered himself at the time a ruined
and ill-used man. He is now the richest resident
in Quartzopolis.
Mr. Wood, N.S.W. ex - Minister for
Justice, has given up amateur soldiering. In
the Boer war days, when Lyne was Premier, Mr.
Wood was quartermaster and ached to follow
Kenneth Mackay to glory. But Lyne loved him
and held his coat-tails, and consoled him by
making him a lieut.-col. with extreme rapidity.
Now that Lyne has gone from the Premiership,
Mr. Wood resigns from the army with more or
less joy.
Sydney Pitt-street Congregational Church
(where Parson Tremayne Dunstan is not to be
found just now) is discussing the advisability of
borrowing £l5OO on mortgage for church purposes.
General impression (gathered from the frequent
increases of “screw” that the last shepherd was
favored with) was that this church was a very
flourishing institution indeed ; certainly the pastor
seemed a very flourishing institution up to the
time of his lamented departure.
The doughty Dowie is about to come with
a rush here, like the Salvation Army of 19 years
ago. His local agent, Overseer Voliva, is a
commonplace spouter, but begins to exhibit his
hand in Melbourne as an organiser. He has just
received 200 rather impressive dissolving
views from Dowie, showing aspects of Zion
in Chicago, and Zion City, 42 miles from
Chicago. The cause has spread from Mel-
bourne city to Fitzroy, Ascot Yale and
other places. It will leap directly. Voliva
has had a fine set of robes made for the
Melbourne choir. Dowie sends lots of
money, and they take up no collections.
“RARE BIRDS ” (FITZGIBBON).
Melbourne. Tocsin, on Deakin :
Deakin is to the House what a man’s face is to the man.
He grows on one. He is quiet and courteous, but master
of the House. Members are regretting the time Barton
will return. Deakin is Watson’s chum, Braddon’s friend,
Spence’s confidante, Kingston’s supporter, Bamford’s
adviser, and Ronald’s counsellor. He makes everyone
his special acquaintance, and is liked by everybody. If
he only had Higgins’ backbone he would go far.
The same “if” that overshadows Sliiels and Drake
and so many others. And, meanwhile, Bent is
going about Melbourne with a backbone that is
no use to him, he having neither capacity, tact,
nor manners—only backbone.
The most deplorably foolish Gent One on
record has just been “struck off” in England.
Having paii away certain trust-moneys, and
being called upon to show vouchers for them, he
produced receipts signed by Smith, Jones, and
Brown, verified by an affidavit taken before
Robinson ; and he himself wrote the signatures
to the whole lot in his own undisguised hand-
writing. His counsel stated that the money had
beyond question been properly paid, and the
ultimate foolishness was done only to save expense
and trouble. As the expense, if any, could easily
be charged to the client, his desire to avoid trouble
must have been a record laziness, and the Court
felt that a man who was so tired as all that was
better out of temptation, so he went off the
Rolls.
Frightful libel on a deceased Australian
judge, by one who knew him :
The late Judge was considered one of the
soundest lawyers that ever sat on the judicial bench. He
was also one of the grossest and most d sgusting feeders
that ever sat above the salt. He was particularly fond of
butter, and invariably ate it with a spoon when he found
it goo 1. At present writer’s luncheon table he once ite
over half a pound and then asked for more. At the
Custom House Hotel, Maryborough, one day I saw him go
round the table, lift the covers—it was just before the
lunch bell rang—and finally spit into a dish of stewed
oysters. Then he emptied a plate of butter into a dish of
mashed potatoes and ate them with a spoon. On another
occasion, while carving a round of beef, he paused,
inserted the long blade of the carving knife down his
back and scratched his cuticle with extreme placidity,
after which he resumed carving. He was a hog, but a
very sound hog, and the judicial profession was a con-
siderable loser when he died.
Lord George Hamilton, a cabled proba-
bility for the Governor-Generalship, is a clever
Parliamentary tactician, and learnt most of his
tactics from his mother. At his first election
for the House of Commons, his mother, then
Marchioness of Abercorn, went through the con-
stituency betting liberally against her son’s
chances, and it became worth most people’s
while to give the callow youth a vote. The
family was all-powerful among the Conser-
vatives of the North of Ireland, but tenant-
righters, Home Rulers, and Fenians were banded
against it, and only for his hard-gambling mother
they would have smashed George.
The arrest in Sydney of Parson Worthing-
ton, of the Unitarian Church, who was taken
over to Melbourne on a charge of obtaining a
large sum of money by false pretences, is the
latest reflection that has been cast on the church.
Worthington had a lengthy career in Maoriland
and other places before he came to Australia.
He is a stately, eloquent, plausible, old gentle-
man with a gorgeous head of hair, and came
from America. He isn’t supposed .to have
been always a Unitarian, but Unitarianism is
a loosely-hung-together sort of creed, and almost
any eloquent gentleman with a splendid head of
hair and a fine boiled shirt seems to suit it.
K. Murchison, lately dismissed from the
Lands Board by N. S. W. Minister Crick for having,
as alleged, said that “the Minister was not fit for
his office, ” had been 12 years a member of the
Coonabarabran Land Board. Murchison denies
having used the alleged language, and demands
an inquiry. The Minister refuses to investigate,
dismisses Murchison, and tells Parliament, “I
satisfied myself he used the words, and won’t
bother about an inquiry. ” There is a fine, high-
handed method about Crick at times, but, all the
same, Murchison will get his inquiry if he keeps
asking for it. He has only got to persist, and.h*
will develop into a spectre that will haunt the
See-Crick Ministry all its days.
Cabled that Dr. Jameson, of the “Raid,”
is “the coming man” in S’Africa. What he is
coming to is not stated, and it is certain that no.
one likely to come to any good could say, as
Jameson did t’other day in the Cape Parliament,
that “ the Raid was an abominable blunder ; but
fair-minded men might forget.” No one on either
side in S’African politics can ever forget that it
was Jameson’s insane foray that made the war
inevitable, and Jameson himself cannot have
recovered his mental balance if he supposes other-
wise. Also, the cableman must be quite as mad
to suppose that a political party—especially one
which has such a difficult game to play as that
before the Cape Imperialists—will trust itself to
Jameson’s leading. Bad enough in all conscience
to have such a whirling and ill-balanced person as
a follower.
Gunga Brahm, probably the best wrestler
in Australia to-day, vas recently haled before
Melb. City Court for threatening boss Hindu
Mukand Lai. The latter in his evidence de-
scribed their relative strengths as “I am like a
hollow house ; he is like a solid pyramid.” This
poetic imagery is latent in all Orientals; the
Australian versifier who contrives to make money
with weak lines about the wattle should thank
Providence for not having allowed him to be born
in India—for where every man is a poet there is no
market for poetry. At a recent census at Lahore
no less than 20,000 returned their occupations as
“ poet,” and there are scarcely as many as that in
all Australia. Anyhow, The Bulletin only
knows about 19,800. Gunga Brahm combines the
callings of wrestler, manufacturer and priest, and
it was his giving way to two or three more or
less clerical weaknesses tliat is said by his country-
men to have been responsible for his defeat last
year at the hands of Buttan Singh.
THE REAL HORSETRALIAN SPIRIT.
YOUNGER: “ What do you think of the hew
blanky mare, uncle?”
This is the kind of eloquence that does
not appear in Federal Hansard. The woolly
Simon Fraser (elected simply in his capacity: as
boss Orangeman) is talking on the Electoral Bill
in short explosive jerks, and his general style is
as follows
Fraser (loq.): “This is going too far—too far —too
far, I say ” (rising inflection), “too far! It will lead to
imperrrsonation— to imperrrsonation—and to, and to—
to imperrrsonation, and—and—and other things.”
Dawson : “There may be impersonation under any
system.”
Fraser : “There is imperrrsonation—plinty of it—
plinty of it —I saay, in elections now—in elections now!
There is plinty of it. I know thart —I know thart.”
Dawson : “ Why are the offenders not prosecuted ? ”
Fraser : “ Because it is not known—it is a secret—it is
a secret. Oh, I know thart—l know thart—l know thart
wull ! ”
Dawson: “ Then you must be the impersonator your-
self !”
Fraser : “ Oh, don’t they come out of the polling-
booth boasting of it —boasting .of it—boasting of im-
perrrsonation so that everyone can hear them.” (Sits
down suddenly in a strong Scotch accent, leaving the
Senate much edified.)


■
WE»K-SUSHT€P REAPERS^-
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing with comfort, whose distant vision is dull
and who suffer from persistent headaches or pains after close
application—you may rest assured that you are suffering from
Ageing- or Impaired Vision, and Need (3-lasses. You
should visit US and have your sight scientifically tested, and
be supplied with Glasses adapted to your individual case
tiorla*andJPrice nfarvellously^acc'urate B lnd S popa[ar''sELF^BioHT-NfEASUIiNa , ’”?'' rllG '
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Consulting Optician,
371 George St., Sydney,
And at 232 COLLINS ST„ MELBOURNE, opposite Age Office.
next door to the A. J.S. Bank.
King- and George Streets.
DAVID STORER & SONS’ Three Co!or8 - BLACK » RED and BLUE
Registered
Trade'
Mark.
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking or
The Perfect Sheep-Marker, SHEEP BRANDING OIL.
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.— ln the case of ethnolojical and
natural-history items , etc., alivays give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
If Sydney papers and politicians have done
their best to minimise the drought they also did
their best to exaggerate its “ break up ” at theend
of August. In the far west, which has been
longest without rain, there were only scattered
showers; in places fin. fell ; in others, only a few
miles away, not enough to measure. Most of the
tracks are still impassable; and cartage between
Broken Hill and White Cliffs—latter, among the
larger backblocks settlements, is the greatest suf-
ferer—was not affected. The price a week after
the rain was £l5 a ton for the 160 miles. At
Broken Hill, whose water supply is causing un-
easiness again, not a gallon was caught in the
reservoir.
* * * •
“Jungle”: Things have* come to be so
bad in Victoria these times that farmers and others
in the Northern districts are trucking what stock
they have left to Gippsland, about the only corner
in the State not destitute of feed and water. There
are sad tales of loss and suffering on the journey,
and it’s nothing for a man to lose half beforeN
reaching the Promised Land. Considering that
these stock have mostly consumed their own value
in hay, etc., already, they will cost a lot before
the rains bring relief.
» * * *
“J.F.D.”: “ Canonicus ” (8., 30/8/ ! 02)
on the Public Service Board, is partly right, but
the fact remains that the Government men
stationed on “The Fringe” are mostly in their
right place. The Government men on the Fringe
are, in the main, dull dogs— and thirsty; and the
Board keeps them there because when they get
extra thirsty their surroundings are taken into
A WESTERN LUXURY.
NEW CHUM : “Hi! landlord, I want a bath; where's the bathroom ?”
WESTERM HOTELKEEPER : “ There ain't none. If yer like ter buy about ten
bob’s worth of water, 'owever, I kin lend yer a tub.”
consideration and they get another chance. The
“Fringe” civil servant, being king of his tinpot
village, generally has an overweening conceit of
his own abilities. And the Board does act impar-
tially as far as it can. The only chance the Board
has in getting the measure of a Fringe man’s
capabilities is by accepting that man’s opinion of
himself contained in applications, &c. The
man who was 14 years at Godforgotten must have
had a small opinion of himself or he would have
filled Young-street with piles of foolscap demand-
ing a change on account of ability, &c., so you
cannot blame the Board for not having a high
opinion of him. Perhaps it changed him to God-
forsaken in pity for his lack of push. Yes, I know
the outback civil servant; and he is better in the
bush. He has more time to think, and in many
cases he has such a lot of thinking to do that he
is best left in a quiet place where he can catch up
arrears.
• • * *
“Sirhap”: What a lot of knowledge is
running to waste in Queensland, and quite over-
looked by our politicians. It is a wonder that
they do not offer a prize for a ‘ ‘ new way to pay
old debts.” Here is Philp hurting his political
and business position by cutting down the civil
service—his friends—so that he can struggle to
attain that political delight, an equal re venue and
expenditure. He is worse than a bubonic scare,
and he tinkers, doing' great harm, yet he cannot
come within coo-ee of his goal. Yet, the means
and the end are so plain that a blind man could
not fail to see them. Here it is, and it is called
Bowen. That place has the best northern harbor
in Queensland ; is big enough for all Britain’s
fleet, and safe enough, too. Around it are several
thousand square miles of agricultural country,
extending from the coast to the Leichhardt range’
70 miles straight. Then coal; the great Peak
Downs coalfield terminates but 63 miles from it,
topped by the blaok-soil agricultural lands of the
Bowen River. Philp does not need to repurchase
from the Q.N. Bank at absurd prices land for
closer settlement, for this well-watered black-soil
country is all available. Then its mining resources:
it has seven gold-camps near it, and beyond the
Leichhardt Range, watered by the Sellheim River,
is a gold and mineral field, dormant, for it has
never been exploited, and good enough for W.A.
The town is well-suited for a seaport, being high!
dry, and well-drained naturally, with fertile land
all around it. I suppose the circumference of its
bay would be 30 miles, and every foot of it is fit for
building sites; then three-fourths of the town is
State land, also the bulk of the suburban and
country lands. A railway from Bowen, 127 miles
long, south-westerly, costing £234,000, would pass
through many thousand acres of first-class agri-
cultural black-soil land on the Bowen River, which
is the only permanent tributary of the Burdekin,
traverse the coal-lands there, and terminate at the
Mt. Wyatt-Sellheim gold and mineral field, where
it would junction with the to-be transcontinental
railway section from Clermont to Charters Towers
—and a better payable line, when its country is
developed, would be hard to find in Australia.
Yes, there are millions knocking around Bowen if
VPhilp would but forget the grovelling selfishness
®f his beloved Townsville, festering by its unlucky
mudhole a few miles further north.
y * * * *
\“ H. J. M‘Cooey” : In answer to some-
one (8., 19/7/’O2) about rearing “pheasants.” If
lyre birds are meant they cannot be reared. Lyre
birds live entirely upon iand leeches, slugs, snails
and larvae. Numerous attempts have failed to get
the bird in captivity past the third month. Any-
body who succeeded in bringing these birds to
maturity could readily obtain £5O a pair for them
without going outside N.S. W.
“ W. L.”
*' Bodrid’a ” (8.,
16/8/’O2) reason
why rabbits are
no t breeding—
viz., “ that trap-
pers keep bunny
on the move so
co n stantly”—
won’t do. Fur-
ther, he says :
“ I saw a pad-
dock not trapped,
and it was liter-
ally alive with
‘kittens.’” Well,
if he did, there
was green stuff
in that paddock
or close handy. I
have opened thou-
sands of does this
year, and only
three showed
signs of increase,
but since the rain
(six weeks ago) a
little grass has
shot through in
this (Bathurst)
district, and there
are already signs
that the breed-
ing is renewed.
Again: “Bunny
has a great aver-
sion to a trap ”
and proves it by
getting into one
bo regularly eh?
Also: “Should a
trap with a rab-
bit in it be left at
a warren not a
rabbit will go near
it for months.”
Bunk um ! If
“Bodrid” opens
up the “boarding
house ” with a
Eick and shovel
e’ll find them
there all right;
the scare only
lasts while the
captured bunny is squealing, or a little longer, and
even squealing won’t keep a trapped rabbit alive
more than days.
* * * •
“ Paroo ” : Be “ Hix’s ” yarn (B. 23/8/’O2)
about how he was travelling from Hobart to Syd-
ney on the Manapouri and when near Barr an joey
a flying fox rose from among some fruit cases: I
obly desire to remark that the Manapouri never
traded between Hobart and Sydney, and vessels
coming from Hobart to Sydney don’t approach
Bar ran joey, which is a good many miles north of
Sydney Heads. Once, a good many years ago,
wlule going from Brisbane to Broken Hill, just as
the steamer was off the coast of Bohemia, I saw a
griffin rise from behind the smoke-stack in broad
daylight and fly towards Mexico, but a capable
doctor was called in and I woke up next morning
at my usual address in Redfern feeling much
better.
• • * •
“ Werrimee" : Just read this advt.
C ° 1 o«7 I ?, t,l ?u AN Vr At ?* ount Lindsay, on 3rd February,
1862, by the Rev. J. W. Wilson, of Ipswich, George
S d^ ar i d S° f, second son of the late Edward Cole,
of Earls Hail, St. Osyth, County Essex, England,
to Christina, eldest daughter of John Duncan, of
Woodenbong Station, New South Wales.
It recalls a bush marriage of long ago. All
preparations had been made for the weddin nr at
Unumgar Station (N.S.W.), but a difficulty
cropped up when the parson arrived from Ipswich
his license not being valid in N.S.W. A ride to
the border was suggested, and the idea was imme-
ECCLESIASTICAL ARCHITECTURE IN AUSTRALIA.
The Congregational Church , Boulder, Westralia.
Photo, by H. Merrilees, Boulder City.
upon. Horses were soon run up and
saddled, and the whole party set out on the
journey through the bush, the last three
miles being the mailman’s track, up the steep,
scrubby side of Mount Lindsay. Under the lofty
plateau that crowns the mount the cavalcade dis-
mounted, and, hitching the horses to the bushes,
assembled on a little clear spot by the scrub; and,
while the bell-birds made music around, the
ceremony began. When it was about half through,
the discovery was made that a horde of leeches
had invaded “ the church,” and were swarming up
the legs of all parties concerned. The remainder
of the ceremony was put through with speed.
Then the party dispersed round the corner in two
sections, one of which swore and the other
screamed ; and the animals were picked off and
stamped upon. The principals are still living on
the Richmond River, N.S.W.
• • • *
“ Thurla ” : Be the record price for a
Maoriland bullock sold in Sydney, recently, for
over £29 (Bulletin 23/8/’O2). This has been twice
beaten since. A Tenterfield bullock sold
recently for £3O ss. Another has lately been sold
at Homebush for the record price of £32, and
seven others averaged £2B 14s. 3d. each.
• • • •
Dear Bulletin, — Be the controversy about
“ The Ragged Thirteen,” your correspondents evi-
dently allude to the band of robbers that struck
Borroloola—then the Alsatia of Queensland —in
the beginning of 1886. Heaven only knew where
they came from, but as gold was just at that time
discovered on the Ord (W.A.), it may be pre-
sumed they were making for that place. To
say that they committed no depredations is not
an absolute fact—while they stayed around
matters were made exciting for the law-abiding
population on the M'Arthur. The principal
storekeeper (M‘Leod) had £6OO stolen, and perished
in his pursuit of the thieves. The township was
held up by them for 24 hours, and no human
being dared venture out of doors. One of the gang,
known as “The Orphan,” erected a gallows on an
adjoining station, owned by two brothers
(Germans), and, after slaughtering their cattle,
sold the station beef in Borroloola and kept the
proceeds. A man named Lenehan was found
murdered on an out-station of Broadmere, and his
death was blamed on the blacks, but there exists
a doubt. This should fix up “The Ragged
Thirteen ” trouble. They were not, strictly
speaking, outlaws, but as the nearest policeman
was at Camooweal, 150 miles away, they could
afford to do as they pleased.— Ben Bolt.
“E.A.” : A Northern abo-
rigine, after some years of hard
graft on a station, saved £25,
and, on the advice of his friends,
invested it in the purchase of a
brand-new bicycle. Wearying
of the bike in a few days, War-
rigal sold the machine for £5 to
a white man and discovered
some hours later that the pur-
chaser (who was now far away)
had given him a one-pound note
in place of a fiver. Will the
aborigine ever rise to our level
(of palming off £1 notes as
fivers)?
• * •
The necessity for artifi-
cially-feeding cattle is rapidly
spreading over the continent.
It is even down in Western
Victoria now. As soon as
Gippsland has adopted the
Eraetice Australia will be one
uge open-air stable. Near
Hamilton (Vic.) the station
hands cart the hay into the
Eaddocks, and, keeping the
orses moving, throw it off.
Result: a long line of hay, and
a quickly-forming line of cat-
tle. The little remaining she-
oak timber may soon be valu-
able for feeding purposes:
Years ago the “bullockies”
used to “sneak” she-oak for their workers, and
the art of lopping the trees without making noise
enough to attract the attention of the station
boundary-rider was then much appreciated.
» » * *
“General ” : It is quite a usual thing, on
cattle stations, to “ throw and tie ” a wild beast.
When let up, the animal will drive quietly enough
with “coachers”—quiet cattle. Some men become
very expert at this game. On Wyaga (Goondi-
witidi) there was a man who would take after the
wildest beast—bulls not excepted—catch it by the
tail, jerk it off its feet, dismount quickly, straps in
hand, and tie its legs—all single-handed. Then
he would sit on his victim’s ribs, light his pipe
and have a smoke, pending the arrival of
“ coachers.”
“Pankaroo” writes :
“Arbor Day” in connection
with Victorian State schools
was duly observed recently,
and writer was interested,
when touring the country a
week or two back, to see
sundry stunted and sickly-
looking exotic trees struggling
vainly with surroundings that
are almost too much even for
the hardy native stringybark.
The latter can give most other
trees points in re fossicking
for a iiving with a minimum
of water and soil, and it is the
height of absurdity to imagine
that slips of trees, fresh from
delicately - tended nurseries,
could survive such conditions.
As regards this Arbor Day
foolishness, anyhow, my
opinion is that instructions in
rudimentary forestry would
better meet the case. The
average Australian bushie or
farmer has no knowledge of the
value of growing timber in re-
lation to rainfall, and his idea
of land “ improvement ” con-
sists in ruthlessly downing the
timber holus-bolus instead of
sparing such trees as are likely
to be valuable in the future.
Year by year our rainfall is
getting less, but it appears to
be forgotten that the denuda-
tion of our hills of their cover-
mg forests is largely the cause. Timbered 'mountain-
ranges are invaluable rain-inducers, and the sooner Govt,
sets to work to educate the rising generation to this end
the better will Australia be able to “ Face the Dawn.”
• * » •
Writes “ Combo,” from Northern N.S.W.:
In July Review op Reviews, Mr. Edward Dowling voices
a complaint against the “White Australia” legislation. He
says that, as there are man}' full-blood and half-caste abo-
rigines on the North Coast rivers of N.S.W., where sugar
is cultivated, the limitation in the rebate means that
some of the above will be debarred from their usual em-
ployment, and must therefore cause considerable hard-
ship. Mr. Dowling, as a member of the Aborigines Pro-
tection Board, should know better. All the aborigines
employed in the cane-fields of this State could be counted
on the fingers of one hand. The Northern rivers’ black
has too high an opinion of himself to indulge in “ toil ”
for any lengthened period. His “ usual employment ”is
shifting beer (or rum that never paid excise). He will do
a casual job for a casual meal, but would sooner take the
meal and leave the job. One small mill-owner on the
Clarence had a penchant for this class of labor when he
could get it, but “ pay-day ” was characterised by such
scenes of debauchery in the blacks’ camp as would make
any member of the Protection Board thankful that the
rebate clause was passed. What few blacks are left on
the Northern rivers are well-cared-for by the Board and
local residents.
* • • •
“H.S.R.”: Re the proposed visit (in
search of Australian information) of Boer agricul-
tural deputies:—
Let them be taken from, say, Tenterfield to Gooudiwindi
following the Dumaresq River from where the main
road strikes it at Mingoola. They would have Queensland
on the right and N.S.W. on the left. They would witness
a devastation almost as complete as that of the Transvaal
and Orange Free State with the exception of the burnt
farms. Whole herds of cattle have almost totally
perished, the river stinks with the dead, and the fish are
dying. Many people are ruined, and selectors in many
cases have not ahorse left to work their ground when the
rain does come. No one who has not witnessed it could
realise the existing desolation and misery. He would
indeed be a vindictive Boer who would ask for more
vengeance on Austral.ans than the drought has inflicted
* * * *
Of McArthur River station (N.T.), where
the wild blacks spear the cattle sometimes for the
sake of only the gall-fat, it is said by the looaj
stock-inspector that, starting 20 years ago with
14,000 head, it now musters only 10,000. In no
year has a greater number been sold than were
branded in that year, and in several years none at
all ; and there have been practically no losses
through drought. This and the Victoria River
country, two of the best-watered districts in the
territory, suffer more than any others from the
natives’ spears.
A SPECULATION IN JIM-JAMS.
THE GOOD BROTHER : “ Why, my poor fellow,
whatever are you doing ?”
THE OTHER: “I’m on a good thing, mate. See
this fiery dragon I’ve got on the rope? Well,
I’m goin ’ to sell him to the Zoo!”
, !\ Vi c. the residents of scute districts
have been alarmed by earth-tremors and by cracks
appearing in the earth, supposed noises, &c., &e.
Mt. Pierpoint, near Hamilton, is one of a chain
of extinct volcanoes in the western district, and
from the foot of the mount, right down to Muddy
Creek, fissures appear in the earth.


• •
K uppers Elberfeld Lager.
Sydney puts on its brightest aspect for the
Racing Carnival, and the shopkeepers vie with each
other to place a tempting fare before the thousands of
visitors from the country and other States. Those who
wish to take some little present back to friends at home
naturally turn to the Jeweller to supply their wants, and
this they will be well able to do at that up-to-date estab-
lishment, “The Modern Art Jewellery C 0.,” 187 Pitt-st.,
where every care has been taken to provide for all. What-
ever your requirement may be, it is to be met there, be it
a gold brooch at 7s. 6<1., or a diamond ring at £5O. The
firm makes a speciality of the very fashionable photo,
pendant in gold, from (is. (Id. to £5 55., the latter being
set with pearls or turquoise.*
An attractive trip to what is known as the
Riviera of America is announced by the Oceanic Steam-
ship Co. The cost, including steamer and all hotel
expenses, involving an absence of about 53 days from
Australia, is but £6O. for this the traveller is conveyed
from Sydney to San Francisco and back, and is allowed
10 days’ stay in America, with choice whether he will
spend his time in San Francisco or at the Hotel Del
Monte, Southern California. The first excursion was in-
augurated by the Ventura, which carried a number of
patrons from Sydney, leaving ‘2sth August. The next
sailing is the Sierra, September 15th, and the excursions
will be continued every three weeks thereafter. Patrons
desirous of extending their time in America can do so at
their own expense beyond the time specified.*
ART DESIGNERS
IH JEWELS
Can an Ethiopian change his skin?
Can a Workman be an Artist ?
Sometimes—but rarely.
It requires men of artistic inborn taste and long
training to become Art Designers, to bring out
the best features of a jewel, and produce an
harmonious blending of gold and gem that at
once strikes a beholder as being first-class
jewellery, as opposed to the merely common-
place.
We are Gem Artists—Art Designers. And, let
us add—Good taste does not mean enhanced
cost in Jewellery.
©'.©a©
MA
15et. Gold Locket, set
with exquisite Pearls,
84/-
Smaller size, 50/-
LONDON PRICES
PLAIN FIGURES
STRICTLY CASH
FAIRFAX s jS> ROBERTS,
Tha Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER STREET.
15ct. Star Pendant, set with
Choice Oriental Pearls, 78/-
“ Scutum ” writes
that “ D.W.” (8.,
9/8/’O2) is wrong, and
“A.H.T.” (8., 23/8/’O2)
is right re lyre-bird.
The male is the mimic.
The natural cry of the
lyre-bird is very clear, loud
and not.unmusical; sounds
something like a man
trying to whistle “shook”
a number of times in quick
succession. Have heard
their calls echoing up the
steep valleys in the Com-
boyne Brush at all hours
of the night. When dis-
turbed by a dog, both
male and female give ut-
terance to the “ Quis-s-s-
-s-e,” referred to by
“A.H.T.” ; the former
takes to the nearest tree
and is out of sight in
double-quick time; the
latter often stops to dis-
tract attention from her
partner ; have even touch-
ed her with the barrel of
a shot-gun. The male
usually gives his variety-
entertainment on a “ dan-
cing-place,” a little low
heap of soil and small
stones. Here he struts
before a few admiring
females, showing off his
beautiful tail to [advan-
tage, imitating the while
the cries of a dozen differ-
ent birds. To catch a
glimpse of the perform-
ance one has to tread like
a cat and crawl like a
snail. At the least sound
from the surrounding
scrub the show ends
abruptly, for the star-
artist vanishes instanter,
and the audience scatters
in disorder, filling the air
with the loud and angry
“ Quis-s-s-s-e.”
“J. M. J.” : Be,
birdinimiory. ‘A.H.T.’
(8., 23/8/’O2), in put-
ting “D.W.” right,
himself makes a blun-
der. He is right in
saying that the hen
lyre-bird does not mimic, but wrong when
stating that her only note is a long drawn-out
quis-s-s-s-e. The natural call of the lyre-bird of
both sexes is kur-r-r-r—kur-r-r, repeated time
after time. The quis-s-s-s-e is also common to
both sexes, and is their note of fear. When
suddenly startled they give it a couple of times
and jump up on to some handy bough. Lyre
birds cannot fly upwards, they jump upwards
from limb to limb until they can see out, when
S?SKiS*JISIWSrtt
only whilst on the “dancing beds.” He stands
on this, with the tail spread out like a fan and
brought forward over the head, and turns slowly
round and round mimicking-the hens (two
generally) meantime dancing round him. The egg
(Mrs. Lyre-bird lays only one at a time) is dark-
brown or black, the size of a large duck egg. The
nest is like an enlarged wren’s with a verandah
over the entrance, under which the mother bird
sits once the young one is hatched. Very few
people have seen them.
A VOICE FROM THE BUSH.
Four sons. There's Dave , What got runned [?]
by is bullick-dray, an’ — an’ killed; Joe, what
cleared out a n’ left ’is ole dad; Jim, what jot
inter quod fer cow-duffin’: an'—an’ now Dick’s
been and got killed in the war. What’s life
worth, after all?”
THE MEAT QUESTION (OF TO-DAY).
BUTHER : “ Well, my little girl, what do you want?”
G IRL: “It ain’t wot I want, but wot ma wants ; and that's 8lbs. of
scrag-end of mutton on the nod till Monday.”
“Mac. D.” : Crow-trapping, as described
by “ Chasselas ” (B. 19/7/’O2) is no novelty.
Writer has often seen youngsters trapping crows
and magpies in furrows, after the plough, and
also on posts. In using the steel-traps as men-
tioned, “ Chasselas ” simply infringed on Joe
Rudd’s patent; for is it not written that the said
Joe once set a trap on the fence to catch a German
boy—and caught him, too !
» * •
“Nymsie”: The much-despised bunny
has proved a veritable Godsend in many parts of
Vic., where local trappers find that it pays better
to hawk their loads within coo-ee of the burrows
than to truck to Melbourne storage sheds— now
that meat is reaching famine prices, and very
poor meat at that. The trappers have a difficulty
in supplying the demand, for a bunny running to
41bs. orslbs., cleaned, is cheap at 6d. to 9d., the
vendor retaining the pelt. Even the scraggiest
and boniest meat is now sd. per lb.
lie “ Hagram’a ” query (8., 16/8’02),
Wilson Dobbs writes :
To adequately determine by English lettering
the phonetic values of aboriginal words is the
patent difficulty of native Australian linguistics.
There are so many sets of word-sounds for the
same things among the various tribes, and the old-
time hearers appear to have all depicted their con-
ception of such sounds by different symbols.
The phonographic records of the Spencer-Gillen
Expedition will greatly help in establishing a
scientific basis for trans-literation. As an attempt
at accounting for “ Coolangatta ” I submit the
following : —Works dealing with the Native lan-
guage—like the late Prof. Morris’s “ Austral-
English ” and Mr. Joshua Lake’s Appendix to
Webster’s “International Dictionary” thereon—
classify two seemingly separate sounds, rendered
“Uooramin” and “Currajong” as practically
synonymous words. For they are said to signify
one or other of the many plants and trees possess-
ing tough bark or fibre, from which Australian and
Tasmanian aborigines made cordage, nets or
netting. By the former term were the most com-
mon of these trees typified; by the latter the
several species known to us as Stereulia were more
specially specified. We need not deal with the
modern division of black, brown, green, and Tas.
currajong into their special botanical equivalents ;
nor illustrate, except in passing, the diversity of
spelling—such as Kooramin and Kurrajong, and
so on—with which both words have been treated
by different writers ; but proceed to note that at
least two other similar aboriginal word-sounds
apply to trees or tree-growth—namely, Coolamin
or Kooliman, and Coolibah or Koolibah—both also
spelt in various . ways. The first-named is a large
vessel —almost like a boat—made of bark or wood
for holding water, the last an indigenous tree
growing in Queensland and N.S.W. Does it not
seem evident then that the sound represented
by the prefixes Coor, Curr and Cool, or Koor,
Kurr and Kool, etc., collectively referred to trees
generally ; and the suffixes denoted some slight
shades of distinction thereof ? And that such
names of places as Coolabah, Coolamon, Coolan-
gatta, Corrowong, Currawang and Kurrajong in
N.S.W.—Corryong and Koorooman in Vic., with
Currauiulka, Koolunga and Kooringa in S.A., and
Curramulla and Kooralbyn in Q., respective! v—
among others—probably implied well-wooded
paitsofthe country, wherein each “ wore their
rue with a difference.” Then, as a further proof
of varied sound-values, take the township termed
Tallangatta in Vic. (about 25 miles east of
Wodonga). The native name is “ Tool-an-gatta,”
and is said to mean “ where Currajong trees
abound.” Now, a creek is near-by called Corry on"
Creek—Strzelecki has Cowrang Creek—so, taking
all into consideration, Tallangatta seems but
another mode of spelling Coolangatta.
* * * *
“ Via” : Those who pin their faitli
to artesian irrigation as a cure for drought
will be disheartened to learn that, in many
cases, the mineralised water destroys the
roots of all vegetation. Some of the bore
water is not mineralised, but such deposits
are mostly shallow, and the initial cost is
very severe. The difficulty might be partly
avoided by having surface reservoirs,
“karenes” (Persian covered 'channels) to
prevent evaporation. But, after all, the
drought is Australia's poor relation, and a
hungry one at that.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice ivill be taken of communications Insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Epsilon : Black babies are born very much of
the same color as white ones—not white, hut salmon-red ;
they have a dark tinge rather than a dark c010r... .G.H. :
Altogether too amorous. Try and get off the subject....
Constable : No room for your ode on the settler who
works “ adtnidst pouring rain when reptiles bite.” If he
drank only rain he wouldn’t see serpents in wet
weather lI.J. : We wouldn’t take a yarn in the
Westminster Review as proof that womanhood suffrage
has made elections disorderly in M.L We know better.
And even if it were so, woman has the same democratic
right to vote as man. If she is such a poor sort of
creature that the right to vote once every two years or so
is going to make a wreck of her morals and manners, it is
an unfortunate state of affairs, but we can’t help it....
T.S. : Tale about the municipal election row in your
townlet is truly joyful.. . .T.L.C. : You label it original—
the poem about “ Heaven’s vault,” the “ earthly orb,”
“ Heaven’s boundless dome,” “ the great expanse of
space,” and soon. Well, perhaps it has been boiled up again,
but it’s very, very old pumpkin Ponemah :It would
encourage the hopelessly rejected to persevere, and we
don’t wish to add to present bulk of bad poetry coming to
the office.... Narcissus d’Exquisitos : How can a person
with a name anything like that hope to succeed
J.M.D. : You say the Government should take the
necessary measures to prevent the landlord and the
middleman exploiting the poor. So it should. So it will
just as soon as the people elect members of Parliament
who have sense and vigor enough to make the
right kind of Government. You are helping the good
work along a lot by sending Collins to Parliament, aren’t
you ? Who or what is Collins ?.... Yero: True, but might
be put more forcibly and more readably... .Nemo : Time
enough to hold a thanksgiving for rain when there is
enough rain to go round S.H.R. : Can’t publish your
complaint about the youth who “ ameliorates his oppor-
tunities,” and the sordid boss who “ mitigates his chance
of employment.” To print such dreary letters would
mitigate this paper’s circulation very badly... .Genung :
“ Last Game ” hardly good enough... .Metre : May use...
A.B.E. : Very true but not very humorous.. ..Galvo : Not
wildly interesting.. ..Susanna : Too long and prosy....
O.J.P. : Right off our beat... .Billy B. : A very small
tragedy told between two whiskies.. ..E.A.P. (London):
Your suggestion that Australian manufactures should be
stimulated, not by Protection, but by the patriotic feeling
which is to induce the people to prefer to buy goods pro-
duced in their own country, is calculated to move a brick
wall to tears... .F.L.A. : (1) Seeing that the city of Syd-
ney would only represent about one-fifth of the popula-
tion of Greater Sydney, the persistent talk about the
city bossing the show is pure ignorance. (2) Can you
name one metropolitan municipality whose management
isn’t a disgrace to almost every principle of up-to-date
municipal Government—one with wide, straight, well-
paved streets ; with a prohibitive law against wooden or
galvanised-iron shanties, dilapidated buildings and
fences, and unsightly bills stuck on decaying walls ; one
with a system for the resumption and improvement of
slum properties, with a complete municipally-owned light-
ing system, or with a fixed policy of paying off its debts ?..
IV. B. Rand : Subject done with... .Darnay : Appeared
here about six months ago A.D.N. : You splash round
magnificently, but you don’t get a yard ahead... J. Scott:
Great lack of technical skill T.J.L.: Very fiat and
wooden.... J. L. Dobbie : Much below Bulletin mark....
Daisy M. : Doesn’t seem to hit us... .May : Good material,
badly handled.... Hamer: Curious yarn ; will be con-
sidered. .. .R.P.O. : Nothing in it....Billabong: Neither
any g00d... .O.E.M. : Poor work.. ..Gala : Very flat and
tame Tara: Harp won’t sound in The Bulletin....
N.: The political atmosphere of Delatite is not yet
charged with interest for Bulletin readers....F.M.H. :
Best keep clear of both James D. : Very well-
written in its way, but it’s over-formal, There’s a
difference between purity and mere precision
Ada G. : Pretty, but nothing to distinguish it from
hundreds of similar productions L.L.E.: Id was
returned some time ago.... Tim B. : The Bulletin gets
that yarn on the average about once a month J.M.L. :
“ Influenza ” gag archaic. And you saddle it on barrister
Purves 1... .Bargo : Pure assumption that “constant
contact with lunatics gives a mental kink.” Statistics do
not show that asylum officials are specially prone to
lunacy; but, where one of such develops a kink,
someone makes special note of the fact, to the neglect
of the negative evidence.. ..W. M. Burton: Too long in
the wind... . E.F.A. : Not concise or consecutive enough.
•• • G. Sinclair: Thanks ; will consider if sent a10ng....
Galoo : Not quite correct. The danger to the human
lies in the fact that the lightning, having first taken the
loftier conductor (the tree) —upon arriving at the height
of the top of the better conductor (the human body)
transfers itself to that, and so to earth.... Russ : Drought
items want to be something unusual to pass muster....
D.B.G. : “ Owl” will just about get there... .W.G.E. :
“Spring-tide” too ordinary; “Sol,” the “buds,” the
“ shimmering sunlight,” and all the other properties....
Cripple: Have doubts about tale RitaS. :“ Phoebe”
will d0....G.‘ Tree: Old joke versified.... Kiora : The
“bloomers” jest has seen its best days J.B. :
“Oomeanavadrink” is good.. ..Tenter : Too unfinished.
The practice of leaving the end to the reader’s imagina-
tion may be overdone....G. Gain: Ragged....D.H.lt. :
You don’t surely propose that De Wet is an absconding
Vic. postal official, who disappeared six years ago. The
idea that an absconding Briton when he gets among any
set of foreigners can rise to greatness in a year or two is
humoroi s, hut impracticable... .P.O. : Received one
tremendous poem, beginning:
When Nature yields obedience to the moon, denied to the
sun,
Surely by moral force all temporal and spiritual blessings
might be won. °
Of what avail are the lessons taught by Curran and
Grattan,
Or the more recent lessons taught by Parnell,
Whilst the people for whose benefit they were intended
kiss the toe of one who hands them over to Satan,
Ihus perverting what should be a patriotic triumph into
a victory for hell ?
.. Wombat: Pretty album verse K. Walker (Vic.):
I lease send address Dia Mondi: Quite out of our line.
N B No g 0..... W.G.P.: Possibly use one Sub-
set ibei . Probably it is for our sins that you send us your
poem Unsuitable : Meridin, Prooshun, N. 8., G.J.R.,
The Gouger, Vijnos, Nance S., The Mut, R. 0., E.J., Am-
phis Moll B. Index, L.E., D.H Leila: Considering.
UJ.H. : Your race poem has no pace at all; “Re-
is a, weak bit of Dagonet rhyme The Broker :
Good refrain, but metre is broken-backed .H.N.: Sub-
ject anticipated.... Yarran : Not worked out well enough.
• • ■• Long' poem contains some good lines, but metre
needs a lot of attention B.M.M. : Yes; clever
tor 17.,. Lut we want something that would be
''t a '! y ag * A - H - A ' : Rh °des is too dead
now. Purples: Your headline, “The Dead Poets,”
caused a great gasp of joy. But, alas, it was deceptive ;
the ones that should be dead, aren’t Mulsra:
Same thing said so often before Bohemian : Use stamps
for fund ; verse belated W.D. : “0. the Failure” is a
worn-out idea.... The Daffodil: “Death of Drought
King ” anticipated by stronger verse on same subject....
Felix Mae. : Moderately good; but treatment of such a
hackneyed theme requires to be immoderately g00d....
Will J. : Your stuff is always vastly better when you don’t
strain violently after effect... .M.F.N.: Received. Will
make inquiry about the other... .Barsad : Perfectly use-
less to look for it, unless you can give either name or
approximate date of publication.... Burglar Bill: Not
interest enough... .Treble-S.: So good in its way that we
are sorry it is hopelessly out of our way.. . ,G.M‘C. : But
it isn’t “poetry”; it’s merely chopped-up prose—and
poor prose badly chopped... .Wombat: We’ve no use. for
crude mendacity. Nothing easier than inventing lies;
inventing good lies is another matter.. . .Buzz : You say
“ The Bulletin always sticks to its opinion because it is
its opinion.” Which is merely to say that what Thk
Bulletin thinks, it does think.. ..Mabel S. : Would have
made a much better yarn in a quarter the length
“ Don,” “ Weppa,” and many others : That bullock has
been finally thrown—never to rise again in Bulletin....
W.D.S. : One funny, but unprintable. Other will proba-
bly appear Maurice 0. :No more tree-mark discussion.
Salvo : Hardly do Sandpaper : Too horribly long-
winded Pankaroo : Too much would-be-humorous
circumlocution. May condense J. Fernihough (W.A.):
Many thanks ; but we haven’t room for all that... Deeby:
You should have privately specified to us the hospital in
question The Cherub : The subject been treated
1007 times Soojee : Hasn’t a glimmer of merit
H.W. : Not up to the mark this time.. ..Irla : Yerse good,
probably print; story also bright and well told, but we
want Australian matter Kauri: Sentiment all right,
but verse too rough E.D. : “ Kid Carter” for print
A.M.M.L. : Yes, Tatt.’s is still going ; probably if you wrote
to the Marble Bar, Sydney, you would get infonnation
Riverina : Rather trite Rougemontese Hamer: Re
“ E. Peace,” Wells has done that sort of thing so much
better R.B. :If you read the B. you’d know that
we don’t believe in “foreign capital” developing our
goldfields... .Wallaroo: Crudely unreal,... Waddy : Cause
of Kembla explosion now sub judiee Subscriber:
“ Andrew Carnegie, Skibo Castle, Sutherland, Scotland,”
would probably find him.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
G.H.S. : You’ve got a good idea of line work, bub you
should use Indian ink. Gag too poor, anyhow.
Beechworth (Vic.) Benevolent Asylum
affords outdoor relief to no less than 110 Chinese.
The Chinaman, as a matter of fact, is one of the
most consistent paupers in the community. He
gets credit for thrift partly because it is a secretive
virtue, which consists in burying money away,
and he looks secretive; also, in many cases, he
looks like a man who would be capable of burying
almost anything. Besides, he wears, by nature,
the inscrutable aspect of a person who has mone-
tary responsibilities weighing on his mind.
M. CHAPPELL, winner of the Dunlop Road
Race, Warrnambool to Melbourne.


NOT TAKING ANY


IN MELBOURNE AND ADJACENT PARTS.
UG
COUNCIL
MOS DAIY ’
i 90 2.
IBT thePro-
le ' <^uncm°l s ' uh ° d^n
„„<* " a 'V eC '„ a w» lcSt
without
aeaU' ami\©
?v^ e w
V ‘£3t\
Y> ]
\
■m sfy**
ttil* '
*
o'- .» .. cN vo'
XS Vjo»'
Ay tfy q>> o v
<r&
V 6
The Senate has proceeded in a federal
spirit by modifying many of ita original
proposals. If it is not to be met in the
same manner we must approximate to a
deadlock. And those who talk lightly
about or who advocate a deadlock can
scarcely have realised the serious conse-
quences of this policy. And if they are to*
see these guarantees explained away by
equity lawyers, supported by the votes of
the anti-Federalists, we may indeed expect
to hear a talk of separation.
C TBB BARMAID 1 ' Sg
SHOULD SHEJE ABOU9BED
VICTORIAN A.UANCK
Mrs. M‘Lean aaid . “^h
Jrom personal wbo ame out of
but, looking the the wrong people
*»*
w6 re i» the few-room
individual COMMUNION CUPS"
The question of using individual cups
instead of ‘the general communion cup was y
N discussed at the Presbytery of Melbourne I
v North, this afternoon, on the motion of the
Rev. Dr. M ‘.Donald.
f\le cei'fe'nly >iouU ]s=?
_ no io «
§>Cotch ASs€»nbl>| Of- Kin<i y " l |J
°f »neT^»
of T tL A £T * )r ”»ni Bt6r . ..>
bacJc to Goverar Oent B
**•» -» fS’JX
she Zt ** "LS* *<**£
Kiovis®. a ot\J qU eat' o0 ® eft n»TO
*« '"fo. f4o»» ,e £w @o 'U
■%a£jSg^
foot*® 8 ' •
getwoft^
J
Slu»y. GOr7 '
S\f
\
'X«
'jfore is u\
n\
\ oV
V40006.C. Mtn^A
Voa'TToh.ssMjl
Sublet
Site*
of I
jbfkour ou y/
V «s••''• X
Hr hi wc.
I 1&, ' s >siV J
vntff /\ll i ce 1? trj joe e ° n *vC <?•>?? 7*^.
Wr Jud&tqrfL Vyt?e njfev) (&" Womc>7 "too) we. s«e—’- "
Co«W^ > 'o«'i WC'V« <J H ’ , ‘fe eer'fejrj ib«y OMqjft"To'b* e /i.
w 1 w >jw \ y


A. SAUNDERS
FOR
J E^ E L LERY ' watches, clocks, optical goods, leather
GOODS, AND SILVERPLATE OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
A. SAUNDERS.
J>J< KAD BOARD and KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated on Hard
Nickel Silver, beautifully Chased and Ornamented, 355.
;m be used as Cake Dish or Salver. Similar styles, 255,
30s, £2, £2 10s. A USEFUL PRESENT.
J. DIXON and RONS’'Famous English PI >,te.
A. SAUNDERS.
iirst-class 4-Bottle CJJTJKT. Silver-plated £2
r 25s 30s, 355.
James DIXON and SONS’ Famous
English Plate.
dt A. SAUNDERS.
RICK-LE. Firt-t-class English Fancy Glass
pure Silver-plated frame, £2
Single Pickle, 255.
wm
„ A- SAUNDERS,
i our o clock CAKE FO RKS, Pure Silver-plat
on Hard White Metal, 20s.
Similar style, 12s 6d. A bargain.
JAMES DIXON and SONS’ Famous
. English Plate.
■A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ COMPANION.” pure Solid Silver
mouuted, 18s 6d ; smaller, 15s 6d.
A NICE PRESENT.
A. SAUNDERS.
TICKET raaf U s!; REFERENCE, and
ICKET BOOK, 10s 6d, pure siher mounted,
large size, 12s 6d.
Our own Special Design.
flllllllllllllM
A- SAUNDEP S
CAE VERS, KNIFE FORK, and WS\EEL, Joseph Rodgers’ Sheffield make. In silk-lined <
VY ill give every satisfaction, 20s. Other styles, 3Cs, £2, £2 10s.
GUARANTEED SATISFACTORY.
A.. SAUNDERS.
0102,-HOT WATER KETTLE and
STAND, Silver-plated on White Metal
Extra Chased, £2 10s.
Similar Designs, £2, £3, £3 10s.
DIXON and SONS’ Eamous English l’late
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG CRUET, very neat, effective, 4 Cu] s
and Spoons, Pure Silver-plated on White
Nickel Silver, 21s. Other styles and pat-
terns, 255, 30s, 355, £2, £2 10s.
mUM«fWtU|UU|||||t|
A. SAUNDERS.
White China, silver-mounted, 10s
4JI pure Silver-plated, nicely chased and
engraved, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
XT A. SAUNDERS.
JNew Design, A 1 Quality, Silver-n Med
r BUTTER DISH, la, (id!
DIXON and SONS’ Highest class plate.
A. SAUNDERS.
SLGAR SCUTTLE, square, pure
Silver electro-plated on White
Metal, beautifully hand-chased,
255; similar, 21s.
Child s Pure Silver-mounted
Nursery Khyine CUP, 10s.
In case, with Pure Silver Spoon,
2os.
Specially made by JAMES DIXON and SONS.
Famous English Silver-plated 4 O’Clock TEA SETS,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s.
KINDLY CALL AND SEE ODE DISPLAY SHOW ROOMS.
A. SAUNDERS.
FISH SERVER and FORK, in Silk-lined Case, 235, 255, 30s, 35s to £2 10s.
An Acceptable and Useful Present.
SPECS, 4s (3d, 7s 6d, 10s ; American Grid I, 12* 6d, 15s
Solid Cold, 255, 3us, 355, £2. Scientifically adjusted to suit you.
A. SAUNDERS.
Eirst-class English made. Pure Silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
CAKE, £3 3s.
Other styles, similar, 21s, 255, 30s, 355, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Doub'e JAMS, Floral Ornamented China, 255, 30s.
In single 15s 6d Pure Silver-plated Rims.
Bjrst-class Gent r »
SHADING
BRUSH, 5s 6d;
extra mounts,
6d, 12s 6d, J ss*
21s.
A. SAUNDEKS.
CANDLESTICK,
Pure Silver-plated, 12s 6di.
Leaf Pattern, 8s fid.
A. SAUNDERS' LATEST STYLE.
FRUIT OR CAKE STAND,
Silver-plated Stand, with Fancy Glass, 30s.
Similar stand, 27s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
FLOWER STAND, Silver-
plated Base, 8s 6d per pair.
Larger styles. 19s 6d, 15s 6d,
21s.
Choice Table Appointments.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Crocodile Leather
WALLET and PURSE.
Silver mounted, 5s 61 ;
with shield, 7 s 6d.
SPECIAL VALUE.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oak BISCUIT, Silver-plated
Mounted, 20s ; Shield only, 15 S •
Iluced Rims, 25s ; Floral China
Mounted, 15s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, White or Fancy
Coloured Glass, Pure Silver Plate
on hard White Metal base,
Frame and Shield, 15s.
BUTTER DISH, White Glass, Pure
Silver-plated, £l.
Other Designs, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
FIELD and OPERA GLASSES,
First-class Lenses, good effect,
12s (id, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3,
and £4 10s to £l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Cabinet Striking CLOCK,
Lours and half hours, 15s, 15s 9d, 17s tfd, 20s, 22s 6d, 255.
Other Btyles, 25s to £2 10s. Add 2s extra postage.
m i
mm
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class ENTREE DISHES, pure Silver on Hard Nickel,
£3. Will last ii lifetime.
A. SAUNDEKf .
TEAPOTS, very pretty and useful. Pure Silver-
plated, Hand Chased and Ornamented, ‘2ss
Other styles and Patterns, 17s 6d, 20s, 255. 30s. £2,
£2 10s.
JAMES DIXON and SONS’ High-class iinglish
plate.
A. SATJNDEKH.
Salad HOWL, Ornamented Oliina, with Set vers 30s.
Similar, 255, 355, £2, £2 lUs.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silve JAM SPOON, BUTTER KNIFE, and
BREAD FORK, in silk-lined Case, 355.
Simila , with Sifte instead of Bread Fork, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR ana CREAM, Pure Silver-plated on hard
White Metal, Gold-plated inside, with spoon, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS-'.
First-class Silver-plated CRDET,
specially made by
JAMES DIXON and SONS.
High-class Quality, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS
LEADING ART JEWELLER,
809, 811 813, 815, & 817 GEORGE-STREET,
SYDNEY, NEARLY OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION, _


Sydney Art Society Show.
FIRST NOTICE.
The two art societies of Sydney having united, the
first combined exhibition was opened to the publio
this week. As was to be expected, there is a
great falling-off in the proportion of absolutely
worthless pictures. As was to be feared, there are
included many whose hanging can only be
explained on the ground of rewarding worthy but
mistaken industry, or of exercising the gentle, and
under most circumstances praiseworthy, spirit <_f
compromise. There is nothing absolutely start-
ling in merit; there is much showing a very high
level of talent; there is a little which is absolutely
ludicrous. The National Gallery has purchased
with some freedom, and seems to have, on the
whole, exercised very poor judgment.
• • 9 »
The fault to be found with some exhibitors is
that they have attempted far too much. This
applies conspicuously to Lister-Lister, who is
to be credited with some of the best canvases in
the room, but is responsible in all for a round
dozen, of which some are distinctly below the
mark of his talent. There is not one that is bad,
but how much better the judgment if he had sent
in only, say, “Cloud Shadows,” “The Flowing
Tide,”“Waning Day,” and “Halcyon Days”!
“Moonrise ” doesn’t quite solve that great pro-
blem of painting moonlight on the water ; in
“ Low Tide ” there is a green which doesn’t strike
the eye as natural; “Lengthening Shadows”
is too red. But in “ The Flowing Tide ”
the color on hills and sea is superb, and
“Halcyon Days,” is a decorative sea-scape
of dainty grace. Piguenit, good, sane, sound
Piguenit, is but poorly represented. “The
Fisheries, River Darling,” is distinctly good, but
it is only a small sketch. “The Summit of the
King William Range ” is practically his only
landscape. It has all the rich, harmonious coloring,
and the solid draughtsmanship of this artist, in the
foreground, but a white mist-cloud, with some
light in it, is a shade too “flaky ” and stiff. It
hasn’t that luminous quality which is noticeable
in the treatment by Peter Graham of a similar
effect.
* * * *
Gordon-Coutts has two ambitious canvases, each
E itched in the same low key. Mr. Coutts must
eware lest he be charged one day with mono-
tony. Granted that in both the pictures under
review the intention is to pourtray melancholy or
mystery, that intention in one at least, “The
Story of the Bunyip,” might have been better
served by a bright gleam somewhere. In this
canvas, too, the figure of the old man is rather
theatrical. In “Lost but Found” the fallen
soldier is unconvincing ; but the girl’s face is excel-
lent, and the atmosphere good ; there is some
clever detail work in the foreground. Mr. Julian
Ashton confines himself to small sketches in and
around Sydney, and is to be congratulated on
some very fine work. “ Garden Island—after-
glow” is a happy translation into paint of a
familiar and beautiful atmospheric effect. In
“ Domain Gates—Early Morning,” however, the
architecture of St. Mary’s Cathedral is made to
look strangely “sausagey.”
• * » . »
Arthur Collingridge is another who exhibits far
too many pictures (12 again—was that the limit ?)
As in the case of Lister-Lister there is not in-
cluded anything that is bad, but there are some
obvious pot-boilers mixed up with one or two land-
scapes which show with clear charm the atmos-
phere on the hills of the N.S.W. tableland—that
glowing pageant of deep purple, soft mauve and
gold. “Harvest Time, Bathurst,” “The Wreck”
and “Peace” are his best canvases. J. Salvana’s
“Autumn on the Hawkesbury” has been pur-
chased by the Art Gallery Trustees—why, it
would be hard to say. The attempt to picture
light on roughened water is only an attempt, the
foreground is chromo-lithography, and the effec-
tive bits in the d'siance don’t atone for other
faults. A. J. Fischer’s work is very meritorious,
“The Track Through Deadman’s Hollow” being
a specially good bit of work.
A very ambitious picture is Sid Long’s fla-
mingoes a tour de force which at once
challenges attention, and, on the whole, justifies
the courage of the artist. A still pool—broken
and splashed in one corner hedged with
the dark-green Australian forest, touched by the
oblique red rays of the sun ; a group of red fla-
mingoes, and two red-headed nude women. The
birds are splendid, the water and the light
good, the flesh of the women rather flat and
ugly. Another ambitious picture is Howard
Ashton’s. “ Centennial Park.” The distant hills
across Botany Bay are very fine, with real depth
in the valleys. But the whole coloring is a shade
too high, the grass too lush, the hills too blue.
Garlick’s “Drought Stricken” shows his skill as
an animal painter, but doesn’t .show the drought.
A pathetic failure is “Dread Drought,” by H.
Moore-Jones. The painter had a true color-vision
of the horrible drought, the angry red of the sky,
the green scum of the festering pools, the dark
purple of the eye-sockets torn by the crows; but he
absolutely fails to paint it into a symbolical
picture : his canvas is a crudity which is perhaps
exhibited as a suggestion for someone else to work
upon. Mr. Souter can’t honestly be congratulated
on any of his color effects. Picture of a “ Beautiful
Princess,” for instance, is not that at all, only
a stippling of some weirdly gorgeous clothes.
Dattilo-Rubbo is not too successful; he shows a
rich taste in color, but his composition (in “ Raga-
muffins,” for instance) strikes one as stiff and arti-
ficial. Norman Lindsay has one effort in color-
marked by the almost savage strength of this
artist’s black-and-white work, and showing good
knowledge of color-value in a bold scheme reminis-
cent of Griffenhagen’s “Judgment of Paris.”
Gerald Fitz Gerald has nothing to thank the hang-
ing committee for. With some work which is
distinctly good, with other that is very promising,
he is allowed to show such a crudity as “ Storm
Blown,” wherein the trees have obviously been
closely modelled on mahl-sticks, and the cattle on
the furnishings of a Noah’s Ark toy.
• * * *
In portraiture there is by no means a good show.
A portrait to be high art should reveal something
about the subject which was not obvious before ;
otherwise it is merely a photograph in painting.
Unless Fred Leist’s “Noeturnienne” is counted
as a portrait, there is nothing of any special excel-
lence. That picture is one of the very best in the
show. Edith E. Cusack does some careful, meri-
torious work of high technical quality, but with-
out a gleam of inspiration ; and Sid Long’s por-
traiture in “Dons and Leila” (the daughters of
Mr. A. S. Gordon), whilst distinctly good, is
nothing more. Leist’s portrait of war-corres-
pondent Frank Wilkinson is poor.
* * * *
Among the work which deserves notice as
reaching a fairly high level and suggesting promise
—“ APageantof Spring,”Elliott Grliner ; “ Pip,”
victoria Allen; “The Sea after a Shower,”
Annie H. Nicoll; “Mountain Pass, Katoomba,”
C. E. Stewart; “A Bleak Day on the Hawkes-
bury,” Nina W. Mulligan.
* * * *
Black and White (which is of a high standard)
will be dealt with in a fixture issue.
* • * *
The exhibition of the Art Society is not, of course,
to be taken as an exhibition of the best work of
professional artists.. It is partly that, partly the
second-class and third-class efforts of those artists,
and partly the efforts of students—painters who
have yet to learn very, very much of their art, and
who, perhaps, hope to learn and also incidentally
to sell, by exhibiting. Admittedly, Aus-
tralia stands only on the threshold of
Art as yet; and it. would possibly be
a bad interpretation of its mission if the State-
subsidised Art Society were to set its face against
the exhibition of all immature and trifling work,
for, by exhibiting, the young artist gets stimulus,
and, probably, also education. But the 1902 exhi-
bition suggests that the Society might do a great
deal more than it does at present in inspiring and
directing to a right purpose the immature art
talent of the community, if it were to resolutely
set its face against over-presumptuous crudity and
against banal trifling with Art; and if it were to
encourage, so far as possible, the choice of Aus-
tralian subjects, and the cultivation of distinctively
Australian sentiment.
• • • »
A certain amount of nightmare in purple and
ochre must be allowed to every Art Exhibition,
for the sake of the artists, who derive noble satis-
faction from the incapacity of the public to appre-
ciate such High Art. But it might reasonably be
insisted that before being pretentious a painter
should be quite sure of the elements of technique ;
that practice should precede presumption. This
rule is necessary in all Art; a writer must not
attempt to be Meredithian before be knows his
conjugations; a painter shouldn’t be allowed to be
mysterious and incompiehensible and High until
he has proved his knowledge of outline and color
values. Thereby exhibitions would be saved from
many pictures which no amount of argument will
convince the average lay-person are anything but
bosh.
» * * •
As to encouraging an Australian direction to
Australian effort, that would seem to be reason-
able enough and easy enough. There is a very
varied and very wonderful life in this country to
engage the painter’s eye—seascapes, landscapes,
cities, human types. Why should an Australian
exhibition by Australian artists include minor
English landscapes minor studies of foreign
flowers, minor repetitions of subjects which have
been so much better handled before? Of course
anything of the first order of Art should be
eagerly welcomed, whatever its subject—a land-
scape in Turkestan, a portrait study of a
Corean. But in the little efforts at art —
the amiable landscapes, the pleasing and in-
offensive flower studies, the ladylike expression
into Art of the cut lemon—in these the price of
tolerance should be Australianism. For the matter
of that a good deal that is in this exhibition ought
not to be given wall-space at all—Australian or not
—for the reason that-it is, whilst pretty enough,
too trifling, too banal. But there is much minor
effort that might be encouraged, on condition that
it engrosses itself on Australian subjects purely ;
then it might be tolerable as producing suggestive
essays in Australian painting, and in time be led
to better things. Weak echoes of the English
treatment of familiar subjects can lead to nothing.
The Parochial Conspiracy in N.S.W.
This (extracted from a letter signed “William
Onslow”) is the especial variety of slush with
which Sydney Telegraph is filling itself just at
present:—
If the Freetrade and Democratic committee that did
such good work in 1800, and others in sympathy, were to
lead a movement in favor of secession from Federal bond-
age, the country would respond as one man. Federation,
is pressing us to the ground. It needs us to take
prompt steps to recover our political freedom. The
proceedings of the Federal Parliament through the first
and present endless session have demonstrated beyond
question the jealous hatred of New South Wales felt by
the other States. This, added to the perfidy of some of
our own representatives, has brought about a condition
of things utterly unendurable. And this is but the pre-
cursor of the condition in which the other States have
determined to ultimately place us. The maladministra-
tion of the Customs, for instance, is an incubus far
greater than that which threatened Great Britain in years
gone by, but which was successfully repelled by the inter-
position of that grand old man, John Hampden. The free
and just laws which our forefathers fought and bled for
are being torn to shreds by the newest Parliament in the
world. The action of the Commissioner of Customs in
sending men from another State to take charge of our
Custom-house was a menace and degradation to us. It
was the act Of a despot, and one which in times gone by
would have provoked rebellion. Throughout the discus-
sion on the Federal tariff it was made apparent that the
chief aim of the framers and the supporters of the tariff
was to cripple New South Wales. The jealousy against
this State is deep-rooted and of longstanding ; and it was
the knowledge of that fact which deterred so many of us
from voting for Federation when the plebiscite was taken.
It would require too much of your space to enumerate the
many acts of the Federal Parliament which have been in-
sidiously directed against this State ; but I may instance
the determination, almost openly expressed, to flout New
South Wales and cheat her out of her rights by estab-
lishing the Federal Capital in Melbourne '
* » • •
This is the sort of poor weeping unmanlmess which
has always characterised a certain parochial class
in N.S.W., and by which that class has done its
best to create the impression that the Cornstalk
is npt quite half a man, but only a wailing
apology. A considerable amount of such litera
ture infests the press just now, but this particular
moan, which is fairly typical of all the rest, may
be answered in a few words :
(1) There is not a single instance quoted to show where
the “jealous hatred of N.S.W.” has manifested itself.
N.S.W. certainly sent sundry parochially-minded dele-
gates to the Federal Parliament, who are always whining
about some “ wrongs” or other, but no concrete evidence
of these wrongs has ever been put forward. Perhaps the
great efforts made by the Victorian members to establish
large ironworks in N.S.W. (Victoria and the other States
paying most of the bonus) is what is meant.
(2) Not a word about any evidence of a desire to
“ cripple the industries of N.S.W.” (unless the effort to
establish N.S.W. ironworks is meant) appears in the
Federal debates, and the writers of letters like the above
couldn’t produce that evidence if the salvation of their
poor little souls depended on it.
(3) N.S.W. supplies the Premier and two other mem-
bers of the Federal Ministry, and in proportion to popula-
tion, it is far better represented in that Ministry than
Victoria is. It also supplies the leader and deputy’leader
of the Opposition, so it has the prospect of supplying the
next as well as the present Premier. The other States—
with their alleged “jealous hatred” and all the other
trash—cheerfully follow the N.S.W. leaders—Freetraders
and Protectionists alike. The N.S.W. parochialists
wouldn’t be satisfied unless their State had the lead in
everything, and the other States gave way.
(4) N.S.W. gets exactly the same tariff as Victoria and all
the other States. It can live and prosper under the same
conditions as they do, unless it is claimed that its people
are more helpless than other Australians.
(5) The “ fodder duties” grievance, about which so
much has been said, was a lie and a sham from the
beginning. If N.S.W. wanted to import fodder free, it is
its own State Government which gets the duties, and it is
its own State Government which refuses to refund them.
If N.S.W. won’t make its State Government refund the
duties, then it evidently doesn’t want to import the
fodder free.
* * * *
(6) The Federal Parliament has been sitting a little over
a year, and almost all that time was taken up by the
stonewalling of the tariff by a knot of N.S.W. importers
and their agents, which is quite sufficient reason why
nothing much has been done about fixing a Federal
capital in N.S.W. It was never agreed that the child who
cried for the moon was to get it first thing, and N.S.W.
never stipulated that the Federal capital was to be built
in its territory instantly, before even the Federal Govern-
ment knew what revenue it could count upon.
(7) Despite all the wild and whirling talk about the
“ party ” which wants to permanently fix the Federal
capital in Melbourne, it is impossible to point to a single
politician or paper demanding anything of the kind.
That “ party ” is about the silliest jim-jam that was
ever evolved by a diseased and childish imagination.
(8) The Federal tariff certainly raises more revenue
than the old N.S.W. State tariff did. And N.S.W.
rendered that additional revenue necessary by granting
old age pensions without taxing itself to provide them.
N.S.W. gets credit for granting old age pensions, and a
section of its people curses the Federal Government for
finding the money to pay them.
(9) And the great grievances seem to be that the Gov.-
General had to reside chiefly in Melbourne while Parlia-
ment was sitting (it has been sitting not quite one
session). Also that certain customs house officials,
released from duty in other States, were sent to Sydney
instead of extra local men being appointed to swell the
cost of Government while these old hands were pensioned
off. No N.S.W. men were sacked to make room for
them, and the sin was exactly the same as when N.S.W.
sent men to Broken Hill or Bourke, or sent a N.S.W.
Premier to Melbourne. By sending these men over
N.S.W. gets some extra population and some extra tax-
payers.
• * * *
The parochial-minded gang in N.S.W. is only a
handful, but it makes enough row to constitute
itself a public disgrace. It was this gang which
insisted that the poor, sea-sifck and broken-down
Gov.-General, who wanted badly to get ashore at
the first port, should come right on, so that its
petty-minded vanity could be gratified by having
the first official landing at Sydney, a piece of
childishness of which a naked savage might
be ashamed. To its diseased soul everything
that the Federal Ministry does or can pos-
sibly do is only another evidence of a dark con-
spiracy to steal N.S.W.’s deficit, or something.
N.S.W. has got a far larger share, in proportion
to population, of Ministerial power than Victoria.
Its men lead both the Government and the
Opposition. It has more representatives than
Victoria. It has the same tariff as the other
States. It has, so far, secured the lion’s share of
the Federal money expended on public works.
It was only by the bitter opposition of its own
representatives that the Federal Parliament was
prevented taxing Victoria and the other States
heavily to pay a bonus for the establishment of
iron works in N.S.W., from which works N.S.W.
would have reaped practically all the profit, and
Kingston, of S.A., and Turner and Deakin, of
Victoria, fought hard to confer this boon on
N.S.W. The Federal Government proposed to
vote money to enable the Gov.-General to keep
up state and pomp in Sydney, and was reviled
for it by the Sydney Freetrade papers. It
went round, almost the first thing, inspecting
sites for a Federal capital in N.S.W., but
it didn’t build that capital in a night—and it
couldn’t be expected to. And N.S.W. refused to
help itself, as it had absolute power to do, in the
matter of the fodder duties, and its parochial con-
spirators cursed the Federal Govt, because N.S.W.
wouldn’t help itself. And each of these things
made the parochial cranks madder, till their
diseased mental condition has beeomq an absolute
danger to the community, and they ought to be
locked up in a cool public-house till further
notice.
At Poverty Point.
“ H.P.”: The drama holds the mirror up to
Nature? There is hardly any modern play without a
woman fainting. How many readers of this paper have
ever seen a woman faint under stress of emotion merely ?
Has one ? Mark how sparing Shakespeare is of this cheap
device. Rosalind faints at the sight of blood. I do not
know that there is one faint in Shakespeare, except with
a sensible physical explanation
“ G.” : A great institution in the ’Frisco theatrical
world is the “ amateurs’ night.” Once a
year a leading music-hall is given up to
the amateurs of the city who aspire to
professional engagements. Big audi-
ences are the rule, and the performers
have to submit themselves to their
judgment. Some aspirants don’t get be-
yond the first bar of their songs ere a
ioud howl from the audience drives them
off the stage. Others are not so bad,
but great fun is got out of the
show by the guying to which
they are subjected. On the
other hand, the show is of
much value to youngsters
of talent who have been
wasting their cake-walks on
the desert air. Why doesn’t
some Australian enterprising
manager introduce the idea
here? [Possibly because,
owing to the fact that 33 i
per cent, of the adult
population are aspirants
for the stage, the per-
formance would have to
start 8 p.m. July Ist and
end with the financial
year.]
Jack S—, of the dismal
city of Newcastle, is the
Commonwealth’s champion
practical joker. Not long
ago he took three seats in
the dress-circle of a Sydney
theatre. The curtain rose,
but the “circle" was only
conscious of a rough figure
seated in the front row be-
tween two respectable ladies.
His coat was buttoned to the
neck, and had an extraordinary
bulge all down the left side.
He sat quietly—biding his time .
—until every opera-glass was
focussed in liis direction. Then,
very leisurely, he pulled out a gigantic
galvanised-iron telescope, shook it out
over the balcony till it was 6ft. long,
and steadily returned the fire of a
haughty old dowager in one of the
boxes. Long Tom’s victory was com-
plete-gallery and stalls roared and the dress-circle
quivered with indignation as it hid away its opera-glass
lest it should “ draw fire.”
Sarah Bernhardt opened her recent season in London
with a “ Francesca de Rimini ” play, written for her by
F. Marion Crawford, and translated into French by some-
body else. The experiment was just moderately success-
ful. Crawford’s “situations” designed for Sarah are
said to be more tragic than convincing.
The probably untruthful anecdote about Mrs. Pat
Campbell and her stage carpenter is not a bad one.
During her American tour Mrs. Pat made a point of
getting photo’d always with a valuable poodle in her lap.
She went nowhere without the notorious poodle, also her
nerves were turned to advt. account. She suffered so
terribly from nerves that the roadway in front of the
N.Y. theatre where she was appearing had to be covered
with tan bark. At the end of her profitable tour, says
the story, Mrs. Pat asked the stage carpenter whether he
or she had been accountable for the success. The hard,
uncompromising scene-fixer grunted—“ Neither, it was
the dog and the tan bark.”
“P.”: The “ Autobiog. of Olara Morris” is the
best of all the theatrical books. Mary Anderson, in a
preface, says “ This rings true,” and so it does. A story
of pluck crowned with triumph. “ Even Shakespeare
would be delighted with this,” is my thought. All the
grace of the Bancrofts, with infinitely more spirit. There
is not a more delightful figure in Clara’s magic pages
than Wilkes Booth. Her first N.Y. appearance is the
exact counterpart of Edmund Kean’s in London. There
is the same contempt, by a brilliant and fashionable
theatrical co., for the dingy new-comer. She achieves an
overwhelming success, and they are all at her feet.
Dear Bulletin.—First night of “ Iris” at Sydney Royal
I sat down on the tail of a lady’s dress. I did it on
purpose, with the fixed intention of tearing the dress,
and lam sorry that it didn’t tear more than it did. I
didn’t apologise to the lady, and don’t contemplate doing
so. I had a d.c. seat at the end of a row. Just after the
play had commenced, six people came down the gangway
rustling loudly and talking considerably, and wanted to
get past me to reach their seats. I stepped out into the
gangway to facilitate things. Then the elderly gentle-
man remarked that he would go in first and the four
ladies could sit together, and , Ferdinand on this side of
them. The eldest lady thought it would be better if
Ferdinand sat in the middle. I was still waiting. She
started to go in, but drew back, and said Ethel
Maude had better take the end seat. Ferdinand
was non - committal. I was still waiting. Then
she decided that she would take the end seat, and
the old gentleman could sit next her, and Ethel Maude
could sit next to Muriel, and Ferdinand could sit between
Muriel and Gwendoline Florence Henrietta. Ferdinand
only looked tired. I was still waiting. The lady who was
with me grew interested, and tried hard not to laugh.
The old lady went into her seat, telling Ethel Maude to
follow her. Ethel Maude offered the seat to Muriel, say-
ing it was the best seat, and one where the view was not
obstructed by a pillar. The absolute indifference of
Ferdinand almost amounted to chloroform. I was still
waiting. The old gentleman proceeded to get in, came
back for programmes, and fell over Ferdinand. I was
growing unpopular by this time for blocking the
view. When he captured the programmes and gave
one to Ethel Maude, and one to Muriel, and one
to Gwendoline Florence Henrietta, he really got in.
Muriel went next. 1 was still waiting. Then Gwendo-
line Florence Henrietta said that she would go next, and
Ferdinand would follow, so as to sit between her and Ethel
Maude. Ferdinand’s uninterested condition amounted
to a disease, and he should have taken something for it.
I continued to wait. Gwendoline Florence Henrietta
really got in, which left in the gangway only myself,
Ferdinand and Ethel Maude. Then Gwendoline Florence
Henrietta came out again, and Said Ethel Maude had
better take that seat. By this time the party had
crawled back and forward in front of my' lady
companion about six times. Ethel Maude went in
and sat down. This left, in the gangway, myself, Fer-
dinand and Gwendoline Florence Henrietta. Ferdinand
struggled along next and took his seat. I was still wait-
ing. The party in the gangway was reduced to myself
and Gwendoline Florence Henrietta. Gwendoline went
in. She stood up and hesitated right in front of my lady
friend, and with the train of a dress that must have cost
£25 festooned over my seat, and opined that, after all, it
would be better if she sat on the other side of Ferdinand.
Then I deliberately sat on the flowing train of Gwendoline
Florence Henrietta, and put both my feet on it also, and
when she started to move again it naturally tore. It
didn’t tear half so much as it should have done, but it
providentially tore. Gwendoline Florence Henrietta
looked at me, in a tone of thunder and lightning. I
looked at her, u ith an expression which was intended to
convey that if Ferdinand wanted satisfaction 1 would
gladly shed his blood at the first interval. Then Muriel
and Ethel Maude changed seats, and Ferdinand decided
to sit between them, and things began to settle down.—
Yours profanely, Titus Salt.
The Hylands, who follow Victorian country race-
meetings with a circus, of which trained horses are a
strong feature, have been reared in the atmosphere of
hoop-la life. Twelve years ago “ Professor ” Hyland,
sire of the constellation, eked out a living, riding
buck jumpers and bullocks in a tent, while the
missus, with one eye on the kids and another on the
“beans,” kept the door. “Dad” Hyland followed his
bent, and now he has a tidy, satisfying family show,
which he advertises by running some of his 1 ‘ neddies ” in
the chief events at the local races, often landing a pot.
Most of the “circus” nominations are in the name of
Miss Hyland, who is the star of the Hyland arena, in
tights and spangles ; and Hostage, a grey by Wellesley,
obtained place of honor in the Australasian “ stud
book ” as having started oftener than any other horse last
season. Hostage faced the starter no less than 51 times,
and caught the judge’s eye 12 times for his fair owner.
Tennyson and O’Gorman once toured Australia’s
music.,halls as a “team.” While they were here the
poet Tennyson “ crossed the bar,” and the news was
spoken of in a dressing-room of Sydney Tivoli. “My
word,” said a well-known coster-depictor, “ what’ll
O’Gorman do now ? ”
Sarah Bernhardt has been seized with a desire to play
Lady Macbeth, and hertranslator-in-ordinary is preparing
a version of W. Shakespeare’s tragedy to suit her require-
ments.
THE HUSH OF BUSINESS.
“ Hello, Horatio, how are you getting on?”
“Oh, ripping; didn’t you hear I had a two
weeks' engagement in Ballarat last Christmas
twelvemonth?”
Australian managers, who complain that the raising of
prices for special attractions has the effect of drawino-'the
dress-circle pash upwards to the “gods,” can find com-
fort in reflecting that it was ever thus. Pepys says in his
Diary (Dec. 16th, 1661): “After dinner to the Opera
where there was a new play, 1 Cutter of Coleman -st ’’
made in the year 1658, with reflections much upon the
late times; and it being the first time the pay was
doubled, and so to save money, my wife and I went into
the gallery, and there sat and saw very well.” They
always did it, in every age. ’ 1
( Continued on page 30.)


GrO TO HBLL-
I(jOIiANl) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagci),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/-per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS. BRISBANE.
A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
Amostuseful Veterinary Bookis attached
to every bottle of Condy’s Fluid. This Book
contains instructions for curing most of the
ailments and accidents affecting Horses,
Dogs, Sheep, Cattle and Poultry.
In this Book eminent Veterinary Sur-
geons recommend Condy’s Fluid as a
certain cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
Broken Knees, Grease, Thrush and
Cracked Heels in Horses.—Scab, Foot
Hot, Fly, etc., in Sheep.—H-oove, Foul in
the Foot, Wounds and Sores in Cattle.
Condy’s Fluid is made by Condy &
Mitchell, Ltd., of 65, Goswell Road,
London, England, and is sold by all
Chemists and Stores. Beware of Colonial
substitutes. Insist on having Gotidv’s Fluid.
66
D.C
L
WH
K
V
s
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO., 88 King-st.,
POLITICAL
POINTS
Net result of Mr. G. H. Reid’s recent
Victorian country tour was one new branch of the
Freetrade League, with Jive members—three
squatters, one draper and one undertaker.
If people didn’t realise before to what
condition politics had come in S. Australia they
ought to realise it now when the Opposition leader
proposes to abolish free education. After all,
worse things might happen than for Darling to
have his way. If anything would finish the Tory
party that would.
The S. Australian Jenkins Iscariot can
only command a majority so long as he sticks to
the Opposition’s policy. When, recently, he forgot
himself and proposed to take over a foundry, his
Minister in the Leg. Council could command only
three votes besides his own—and it looked as
though he would almost as soon have put his own
on the other side.
N.S. W. public is being gradually prepared
for a disconcerting report on its “ magnificent
railway system.” It is now announced that there
will shortly have to be voted a very large sum to
bring the supply of locomotives up to a proper
standard of efficiency, and there are rumors of
great arrears of repairs to be caught up, and such-
like matters.
The Owe’Sullivan got three Western
railwav Bills (Cobar to Wilcannia; Bogan Gate
to Bulbodney ; and Temora to Barellan) through
all their difficult stages in N.S.W. Assembly one
night last week. No one knows for certain where
the money is to come from, but the Owe’Sullivan
reckons that will be managed somehow. Anyhow,
his eye is fixed westward and Australia is Facing
the Dust.
The Federal Iron Bonus Bill, after many
vicissitudes, has been referred to a select commit-
tee to be talked to death. The votes of the
N.S.W. members supplied the majority which
practically wrecked this chance of creating a great
N.S.W. industry ; though Victoria would have to
find a good part of the bonus, while N.S.W. got
the benefit of the industry, the Victorians voted
pretty solidly against hangingthe business up. The
opinion generally expressed was that there was no
special hurry. If the next £3,000,000 loan doesn’t
fioat, however, it will become apparent that there
is a great deal of hurry.
Another objection of the Victorian Fatman
to the Factories Act has been knocked endways
by some just-published census returns. Said
Fatman wearies the public ear by his perpetual
declamations against the iniquity of an Act that
restricts the employment of boys and drives them
on to the street corners. The 1901 census shows
that there were in Victoria 72,890 boys between
11 and 20, against 299,336 men between 21 and 65
—barely one boy to four men. Now in no trade
is less than one boy employee to four men
allowed. In many trades the proportion of
employment is fixed at one boy to every three
men, while in some there is no restriction what-
ever.
THE IDENTIFICATION OF BRITAIN WITH THE LOST TRIBES OF THE HOUSE
OF ISRAEL. (AN AUSTRALIAN VIEW.)
A Glebe alderman told the Greater Sydney
Parliamentary Committee last week that a vote
taken in his municipality showed that the great
majority was against joining the Greater Sydney
movement. A ballot-paper, said to be the one
used in connection with that vote, was published
recently. It contained a list of imaginary
and ridiculous horrors that were to fall on the
Glebe if it joined Greater Sydney, and a wholly
unreliable statement that the Parliamentary in-
quiry had proved these imaginary horrors to be
real, which isn’t the sort of thing that one expects
to find on an unbiassed ballot-paper. If a Glebe
alderman, when he went up for re-election, hap-
pened to find the municipal ballot-paper adorned
with baseless statements that he was an infidel and
a swindler, by way of inducing the ratepayers to
vote for the other man, he might possibly see the
point.
The Commonwealth Parliament has con-
ducted the most important business of its existence
during the past year in the absence of the Premier
and the leader of the Opposition.
The Tasmanian Assembly looks with a
tired eye on Lewis’s new Parliamentary Reform
scheme, and says that it doesn’t matter whether
it is passed or not, because the Leg. Council will
throw it out in any case. Not one voice is
luted to suggest that the Council had better not
throw it out or there will be trouble. They don’t
know what trouble means in Tas. Assembly, and
don t expect to find out.
S.A. Council” of Churches declares itse’f
strongly opposed to the Amended Tote Bill. S.A.
badly wants the money that Amended Tote Bill
will yield, but still if it abolished all the privi-
leges extended to the churches in the way of
exemption from taxes, and levied 5 per cent, on
the collection, it might make good the loss. Then
the lote could be abolished, and things amicably
hxed up. But so long as the greedy churches try to
dodge their fair share of taxation it should not
object when the gap in the revenue is filled by
a lote-tax.
The Adelaide lawyers who applauded at
the onslaught of their leader, “Johnny ” Gordon,
on the alleged loafing in the Govt, workshops, got
their pill when Judge Boucaut announced that the
Hall divorce-case, which had been spun out for 19
days, and wasn’t nearly finished then, should have
lasted only 12 days. When a lawyer spreads 12
days’ work over 19, and still isn’t near the end of
it, he loafs a darned sight worse than the Islington
workmen were accused of doing.
Treasurer Waddell, being asked the other
night in N.S.W. Assembly if any part of the
revenue from the resumed area of Sydney had
been set apart as a sinking fund towards meet-
ing claims, replied, like a man who speaks
regretfully of the evil deeds of a third party,
that there was no provision for anything
of the kind in the Act. It sounded much
better that way than if he said that the Govern-
ment to which he belonged had taken darned good
care to put no such provision in the Act.
There will be presently a healthy row
between Sydney and Brisbane over the Clarence
and Richmond River trade. These districts are
closer to Brisbane than to Sydney. They have
now steamboat communication with both cities,
and they may before long have a railway to Bris-
bane—a good part of the line is built already.
Then tire trouble will begin. ‘ ‘ The highest point
to which human hatred can reach,” says historian
Freeman,” has commonly been found in the local
antipathy between neighboring cities.”
Melb. Argus gravely asserts that the fact
of 14 Vic. Leg. Councillors being returned, the
other day, without opposition, proves that the
House of 48 Rich Landlords has the full con-
fidence of the people. The Council has a grand
opportunity to show that it knows it possesses the
full confidence of the people by allowing its con-
stituents to choose any one of their own number
to represent them. Then, if they still returned
the old gang, the Council would have some con-
fidence to be proud of.
N.S.W. Assembly lately spent two con-
secutive nights asking why tl'ie police don’t cap-
ture more criminals. The most visible reason is
that the police have had so many other duties put
upon them, because the State is too mean to pay
for these other duties, that only about a third or a
half of the very small force is commonly available
for police work. Another is that a patriarchal
bobby of 60 or 65 (retained in the force after the
proper pension age because the Government stole
the pension fund which the police themselves sub-
scribed) often can’t overtake a spry criminal aged
25. There are more reasons, but these are two to
go on with.
“Mr. Reid was again absent, as he has
been on most occasions when the House has been
called on to deal with questions affecting the
future welfare of the Commonwealth ” (Melb.
Age). But when the future welfare of Georgey
is concerned Georgey will be there,
t„, 0,,/i „ _ tt i ..
• , , J? . P rt n t> circles there is a
d ? slr f to c r ®iP a s? H’ ?7 <!K J - v
Millan as leader of the Federated Absentee
Importers party. Ever since the Dry Dog man
refused to do their work for them their price
( n °thmg a year and find himself in his old age)
and took seriously to his law-business, the importers
11S a jsence r ™ Parliament,
Millan has more money, can take his samples
l • um ’ and , lB exceedingly ambitious. &o
l an 1S agreeable to lead the party and the
Head bea apple may be handed down to him any
day.
“IT IS THE CAUSE!”
MRS. NOWED : “Are there no more faithful
husbands?”
MRS. THINGORTWO : “ Oh, there must be — lots.
Look how many unhappy marriayes there are.”
The bitterest enemy of the old age pension
is the elderly cookie. He used to get his tinker-
ing and odd jobs, running up to 60 hours a week,
done by patriarchs of 65 and 70 at a couple of
shillings a week and a bite. Patriarchs now ask
7s. 6d., or other princely remuneration, and cockie
sheds indignant tears.
Tasmanian Premier Lewis has now about
as distinct an idea of where he is as if he had been
put in a bag and whirled round three times, and
then left in the middle of a deep forest at mid-
night. The Assembly threw out his first Reform
Bill. Then it threw out his house-tax. Then,
after a long struggle it decided, by a majority of
one to re-consider the house-tax. Then the Upper
House smote the new Land Assessment Bill
hard. Now the Upper House is thinking whether
it will smite the second Reform Bill. A fine old
pirate like Dibbs of N.S.W. would ere this have
told both Houses that they were unfit to carry tripe
to a bear and thrown his resignation at them, but
Lewis plods on. The way of the reformer (for
Lewis is really trying to do some good work) is
hard, unless he is a very strong reformer. Tnen
the other fellow’s way is hard.
In its issue of 25th Aug. S.M. Herald
disgustedly pointed out that while the customs
revenue collected in N.S.W. was 455. 4d. per
inhabitant, it was only 395. 2d. in S.A. and
38s. sd. in Victoria, and spoke thus :
It has always been supposed that Victoria and South
Australia are the States which, by their high duties, have
fostered manufactures. As revenue-producers the com-
parison they make with the other States is not to their
advantage.
It might be suggested, as a simple rudimentary
fact, that a State which had “fostered manufac-
tures,” being able to supply itself with many more
things than another State might, would need to
import less, and would consequently pay less
import duties. If the S.M. Herald could only
realise that there are other tests of prosperity
besides the quantity of bales and boxes dragged
by low-priced labor off a foreign ship on to a
wharf that is built with borrowed money, it might
get a clearer view of the situation.
A new wail from the Free-
trade, Anti-Tax, Natural and
Unnatural Association people is
“Why do the world’s emigrants
go anywhere but to Australia?”
Perhaps one reason is that if a
man comes here with his wife and
three children (five in all) they at
once become responsible fora debt
of £26o—their share of the public
liabilities. Another may be that
there is very little for an immi-
grant to do, save “ go on the land ”
—almost the least productive land
on earth—and send the produce to
England, there being no manufac-
turing population of any size to
sell it to. Why the iron-worker,
cotton - spinner, woollen - spinner,
brass-worker, tin-worker, copper-
founder, silk-spinner, shipwright,
&c. don’tcomehere should be plain
enough. They, go where there is
plenty of work for them in their
own industries.
Hawkers’ licenses in N.S. W.
number 1668 ; of these, according
to official statement, 747, or nearly
half, are held by Assyrians and
other aliens. Hawking was once
the second line of Australian pioneering, but the
business is being eaten out of the hands of the old-
time white man.
Cowley, the Queensland nigger-labor mem-
ber, wants to sell the railways as a means of
making things hum up North, and he alleges that
there would be no difficulty in getting American
capitalists to buy the lot. If Cowley reads up the
terms that American companies demanded for
making railways in very much better country
(they received an area equal to half Queensland,
with all minerals thrown in, also cash assistance)
it will probably dawn on bun that his imaginary
American capitalist would want something for
taking the Queensland railways at a gift. Victoria
imported an American expert once to tell how to
make its lines pay, and all he could suggest was
to write off a lot of the capital as lost.
Though downed for the
time being, the Vic. public
servant has many opportuni-
-1 -s for quiet revenge against
th Kyabramapootras and
faming community gener-
ally for making him
sweat for their misdo-
ings. Already there are
signs of the get-back.
Viticultural expert Du-
bois t’other day called
Minister Taverner’s at-
tention to the handsome
way in which Vic. vigne-
rons are treated by con-
trast with other States.
Govt, has been supply-
ing them for some years
past with phylloxera-
resistant vines gratis,
whilst N.S.W. derived
a satisfactory revenue
from that source. Also,
whenever a couple of cows
or horses die, the Govt.-
dependent farmer immediately
demands that a departmental
veterinary shall be sent to give him
free advice. He gets his agricultural
journal, a very costly publication, supplied to him
for the asking, and nearly everything that he
wants, outside ordinary farm labor and the
necessary implements, is provided by Govt.
The Public Accounts Committee ap-
pointed by N.S.W. Parliament to intervene in
the wars of the State Treasurer and Auditor-
General, being M’s.L.A., will (at first) draw no
pay for their services. But it is already hinted
that they will be allowed expenses. The Public
Works Committee at its inception was a gratis
body, but expenses followed and fees followed ex-
Eenses. It is true that if a man works he should
e paid, but why not say so right off ?
The N.S.W. system of appointing the
local grocer, or more often still the local commis-
sion agent, to be district coroner gives some pretty
bad results. In mining districts it shows up
worst. The influential mining manager may be
“ practically on his trial,” and if that is so the
man who conducts the trial ought not to be
dependent for his living on the favor of either the
local bosses or the local workmen. Also, when
an assertive lawyer, and especially one with a
reputation, bumps up against tire lay coroner, not
very confident about the law of evidence and other
things, the lay coroner too often goes down and
takes justice with him.
A Bill is now before Tas. Parliament,
whereby it is proposed to repeal an old law which
has remained on the statute book, and which
makes sheep-stealing punishable by death. The
“prevalence of sheep-stealing in the island” has
long been the standing topic of conversation among
certain indignant old gentlemen of the Upper
House; and when they were suddenly informed
that the death-penalty had existed all these years,
and that somebody might have been hanged for
acquiring an ancient sheep, they seemed quite
angry over lost opportunities, and were only re-
strained, with much difficulty, from voting against
the repeal of the obsolete statute.
N.S.W. Upper House item :
Mr. Backhouse considered that machinery was respon-
sible for throwing people out of work, and what they
wanted was to reconstruct society on a co-operative
basis. He believed the unemployed should ask the
Government to provide them with work with no uncer-
tain voice.
This denunciation of machinery sounds like a
voice from the Dark Ages. Fancy abolishing
machinery—which includes railways, tramways,
factories, shipyards, foundries, ’ steam-power,
hydraulic power, &c.— to improve the condition
of the unemployed ! We want co-operation with
the best machinery that the world can produce—
not co-operation on aboriginal principles.
Extract from that energetic Free trade
paper, Launceston Examinee :
According to a paragraph appearing in the Maoriland
papers, a country storekeeper there recently ordered a
dozen dog-collars from a. Wellington firm. When de-
livered, the goods were found to be of German manufac-
ture, and the storekeeper, being of sturdy British pro-
clivities, promptly returned 11 to the suppliers. The
twelfth he sent to the Right Hon. Joseph Chamberlain,
with a polite note calling attention to the fact, and
asking why British articles of the kind cou-ld not be
obtained on this side of the globe. A courteous reply, it
is said, has since come to hand from the Colonial Secre-
tary, intimating that the matter had been passed on to
the Birmingham Chamber of Commerce, also a letter
from that body saying that investigations were being
made. Now that Great Britain has tied up the dogs of
war, she should be free to turn attention to four-footed
prowlers in colonial back yards.
The newest version of Freetrade is evidently that
our ports should be open to everybody’s goods,
but if anybody except Bull is found sending goods
in Joe Chamberlain should declare war at once.
The final reply of the Federal Government
to the demand for the abolition of the fodder
duties has just come to light. It reads as fol-
lows :
The matter is really one which is in the hands of the
State Government. The money received from these
duties collected by the Federal Government is returned l
to the States, whose Governments can employ it in
affording relief to those in distress. The case is one to
be met by State action without the intervention of the
Federal Government, whose action, if any, must apply to.
the whole Commonwealth. It is not considered neces-
sary that such action, extending to the whole Common-
wealth, should be taken when the relief required can be-
most readily, fully, and fitly obtained by State action.”
Which is solid truth. See, of N.S.W., and Philp,
of Queensland, get the fodder duty revenue of
their own States. If they refund it to the im-
porters, then there are no fodder duties in N.S.W.
or Queensland. If they won’t refund it, then
they either reckon their States don’t require free
fodder imports, or they don’t care.
The difference ! The Canadian and Aus-
tralian Governments recently decided that they
wanted new rifles for their forces. Canada set
about getting them in her own way, with best
advantage to herself, and quite regardless as to
what the Joe Chamberlain Office might thmkabout
ihe matter. The result is that the Canadian forces
are now armed with the new Metford-Ross rifle--
1 iter, lighter and shorter than the Lee-Metford—
which is manufactured within the Dominion. The
inventor established a factory in Canada, the
Government guaranteeing a certain demand. Mr.
Ross, the part-inventor, also offered to supply the-
Commonwealth forces with his new rifle from
Canada, or, if the Federal Govt, would guarantee
a certain demand, as in Canada, to establish a
small-arms factory in Australia, and supply the
local demand locally. The Australian Govt,
couldn’t entertain this idea of encouraging a new
and absolutely necessary local industry, but
humbly and dutifully sent its order and ks
£25,000 cheque to the Imperial War Office. Per-
haps when the Imperial troops are re-armed,
within the next decade or so, we will receive a
few shiploads of the cast-off, obsolete stock in ful.
filment of our order, as heretofore.


LIPP PIANOS at PALING’S
The Best and most reliable German Piano made.
The Popular Piano in Australia.
&
w<
vv.
V*
f/i
y A
fa
y a
7
Sold on
Easy
Terms.
0
Catalogues
Free by Post.
0
Old Pianos
taken in
Exchange.
Beware of Imitations of the Wonderful Lipp Pianos. The Genuine Lipp Pianos are to
be bought only from
Agents for Victoria:—
ALLAN & CO. PROPRIETARY, Ltd.,
Collins-st., Melbourne.
W. H. PALING & CO., Ltd., 338 George Street, Sydney;
Brisbane and Newcastle.
The passing of the beard. According to
British Medical Journal, the beard is doomed
to disappear everywhere, except in New Zion,
where Prophet Dowie compels all men to wear chin-
hair. In Germany the beard is denounced as a
fertile source of infection during operations ; and
William the Terrible won’t allow any doctor of
his to wear a beard. In New York the Milk Com-
mission has ordered that hereafter smoothfaced
men only shall be employed for milking cows and
delivering milk, because dust from the stable is
liable to infect the beard and thus the milk.
Baldness will become compulsory next.
Five Years’ Suffering
Cured by
VITADATIO
FEELS SPLENDID!
Shepparton, July 81,1899.
Mr. S. A PALMER (VITADATIO).
Dear Sir,—l have very great pleasure in certifying to
the MERITS of your VITADATIO. I have suffered for
the past five years, off and on, from JAUNDICE,
ENLARGEMENT OF THE LIVER, and an INTERNAL
GROWTH of some kind, which the doctors did not seem
to understand, and all the medicine I took before VITA-
DATIO had no more effect upon me than so much water.
My husband and son induced me to try your VITADATIO,
and after the second week I had been taking it a quantity
of blood and lumps of stuff which looked like pieces of
liver, came away. I now feel splendid ; and am able to
get about and do my work.
I am an old resident of Shepparton, and all my
neighbours can tell you how bad I was.
I EARNESTLY RECOMMEND your VITADATIO to
anyone suffering as I did.
Yours gratefully,
0. OURREY.
Witness to signature : W. J. Foed, J.P.
I hereby certify to the correctness of the above
Testimonial.
Wangaratta. D. H. K. McGuinness.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184: Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The Price of Medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
Newman’s
Antiseptic Pastilles.
The Best for all Affections of the Throat.
TRY THEM. PRICE-ONE SHILLINC.
S. HARRIS, M.P. S., Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Telephone 2288. 82 KING-ST., SYDNEY.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos.
ss. P.O.C. or stamps.
S. REGKNAfiEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Germany.
Colonel Cameron, of Tasmania, as de-
scribed in a letter from London :
He preceded his men to London by a week, in order to
make all arrangements for their reception, and he had
sent word that he was coming. When he did come he
was, so to speak, snubbed. But he is not the man to be
snubbed, and so he wrote to the powers that be and re-
ported the man who had tried to fend him off. He got a
reply in due course, and was told to see General Cooke,
who was O.C. colonial contingents at Alexandra Palace.
Cameron went to him by appointment, and was kept
waiting half-an-hour. Then he left and reported the
General to the War Office. Then the General ordered
him to appear before him, and Cameron said that
“ order ” was not the word to use to the representative
of the Commonwealth forces, and that he refused to
recognise General Cooke’s authority. Then Lieutenant-
Colonel Penton, the chief of staff, met Cameron and said
that the General would like to see him. Cameron said he
would not see the General, and Penton attempted to bully
Cameron, who turned on Penton with a look so fierce and
with words so cutting that Penton fled out of the room.
Then there was a great review before the Prince of Wales
and the Queen. And Major-General Trotter was Chief of
Staff to the Duke of Connaught. And he was worried
as the Australian line was not quite straight, so he
attempted to dress the Australians without consulting
Cameron, and Cameron yelled, “Don’t move, men, with-
out my order; I command you! ” and Trotter said,
“ Move into line,” and Cameron said, “ Don’t dare move,
men.” Then said Trotter to Cameron, “ Another word,
sir, and I will order you off the parade ! ” And Cameron
said, “ Don’t move, men, till I give the order.” Then
Trotter rushed off towards the Duke of Connaught and
the others, but checked himself and reined up, being, as
it were, in a state of temporary insanity. Cameron com-
plained to Barton and Forrest, and these two, being in
the toils of Royalty and in the glamour of greatness, de-
serted Cameron in his hour of need; but he refused to
back down one inch. The news spread to the Prince of
Wales, the Duke of Connaught, and all the big guns of
Parliament—Chamberlain, Brodrick, and others —who
were all against Cameron. Still he refused to budge.
And they consulted with Lord Roberts, and Lord Roberts
sent an urgent telegram for Cameron to come and see
him. And Cameron saw him, and the Commander-in-
Chief made a full apology, and wrote a letter to Barton
to say that, whoever was in the wrong, Colonel Cameron
was right.
If Tasmania is going to pick up the British lion
by the tail and whirl it in the air after this fashion
that island will get a reputation for disloyalty
that will stick.
The ‘‘Gold Bird Peace Offering Brooch”
(here illustra-
ted) is the
latest London
novelty, and
made by his
London house
for Mr. A.
Saunders, the
well-known
Sydney jewel-
1e r, who s e
address is
George-street (opposite Railway Station). Mr.
Saunders is selling this pretty brooch for 255.,
and it is one of many thousands of different
designs on sale at his spacious showrooms.
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
“ J.F.D.”: Recently met a female “bottle-
oh ”in a Sydney suburb. She was doing a roaring
biz., and confided to me that she had the pull of
the man “bottle-oh,” inasmuch as she wore her
skirts so thick and long that no dog could bite her
legs. Dog-bite is one of the chief drawbacks to
the second-hand bottle-trade.
A GOOD
BOOT
CHEAP
BECAUSE
DURABLE,
'
b
:
A
3
-
%
m
■>
THE
CALLAGHAN
23/6
A PAIR.
* POST
FREE.
DUTY
FREE.
Gentlemen’s Fine
Calf Lace Boots,
Whole Goloshed,
Calf Kid Legs, Made-
to-Order Appearance
PRICE
22/6.
You ought to wear CALLAGHAN BOOTS, because they are the handsomest, most
comfortable, long-wearing, and satisfactory Boots made at any price.
You can’t get them unless you buy from us. They are not Bargain-counter Boots. They
are not “seconds.” They are never behind the times or stale.
{Delivered Post Free
and Duty Free to
any Address
In the Commonwealth upon receipt of 23/6 per pair;
or in Tan Leather for 24/6. State Size of Boot, also if
Pointed, Medium, or Broad Toes are desired.
CALLAGHAN & BON, 395 ceobce st., Sydney.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.-^
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3XT.S.-W-.
fl)oit deplete 9Ji|. go., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEKEAQH ST., 74
' SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
'-THE-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • • 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299—assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,1X5.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of Porth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL *700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 900 ... *350,000
Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMIT JSI>. U
CAPITAL PAID-UP £451,307
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 181,859
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 56,000
£689,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
THE . . .
Kits mimim life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
Established 1879.
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection HUNTER, BLIGH and CASTLEREAGH
STREETS, SYDNEY.
The CITY MUTUAL LIFE is generally
recognised as the most liberal and pro-
gressive institution of its kind in Austra-
lasia. It retains on its books a larger
proportion of business than any other
LiYe Office doing business in these States. I
CEO. CROWLEY,
General Manager.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
‘ GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Ocean
Accident
and
Gtiarantee
Co. Ltd. of London
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Oo.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of Hew Zealand
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building’s, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital
.. £2,500,000
GENTS
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address. —L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Burrumbeet, Sat., Sept. 13,2 p.m.
Gabo, Tuesday, Sept. 16, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer Early.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer Early,
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Peregrine, Saturday, Sept. 13, 2 p.m
► Konoowarra, Tuea., Sept. 16, 5 p.m!
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 20, 2 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Saturday, Sept. 13, 2 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 20, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Qowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colomai S . Companies Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
WHITE STAR LINE
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
SUEVIC, to Sail on or about 19th SEPTEMBER.
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIC, and AERIC
to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 27 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 33 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation'
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, Parker S (Jo’s [ine
■ —TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
A
LINE
via
San Francisco,
California.
NEW
SERIES
OF
EXCURSIONS
TO THE
RIVIERA
OP
AMERICA.
FIRST-CLASS THROUGHOUT.
COSTS £6O.
Covering Return Passages, Steamer and Rail, Hotel
Expenses in San Francisco, and Hotel Del Monte,
Southern California, about Ten Days’ stay in America,
with liberty to remain longer. Steamers leave as
follows :
THE GREAT
/ OVERSEA 1
\ OVERLAND /
HIGHWAY
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM.
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, and AMERICA.
The NEWEST, LARGEST (6000 Tons each), FASTEST,
and ONLY TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS engaged in
the TRANS-PACIFIC PASSENGER SERVICE from
Australia and New Zealand.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.
BURNS, PIIILP & CO., LTD., Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
Bank of New South Wales.
Estaiilishkd 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. 1,285,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. ~ ... .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total .. .. ... 5,285,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Chas. K. Mackellar, M.L.0., President.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Auditors:
A. G. Milson, Esq. Harrington Palmer, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
Tag Bank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £9576 13 4
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
ev ctf sts
ioste'?
•s
PA***
6ll caW ws
»\e®* w 0:
cures
. O V 2^ al A
atv& ro \ d s-
d CoV
Tf^ tatvows ‘
The Roman •'
Hair
Restorer
Produces Brown and Black Hair.
Price 1/6 ; by post, 2/3.
An inexpensive and
certain preparation for
renewing and restoring
"to its original color the
hair of the head, beard
and whiskers.
Largely used by the Roman ladies for preserving their
magnificent tresses. Nourishes the roots and removes
dandruff ; increases the quantity, and renders it glossy
and supple ; does not stain the skin nor soil the linen. If
your hair is falling off or turning grey, use this.
CAUTION.—This being different from most prepara-
tions, other kinds should be refused.
JAMES BRINSMEAD and CO., Chemists, ST. HILDA.
All Chemists sell it.
KT. 3D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OP
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egj'pt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*Twm-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
Interstate First Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
Via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA,
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. TANG LIN, 15th OCTOBER,
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9Bridge-
street, Sydney.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ ALL-RED ” ROUTE.
THE GREAT COMBINATION.
Australia, Canada, Great Britain,
Canadian-Australian Line,
Canadian-Pacific B.
British Atlantic Lines,
CHEAPEST ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL:
Oct. 6, Nov. 3, Dec. 1.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
RUPTURE c “
without
operation or pain,
Throw away
your Truss.
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
1 SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C-S., ENG.,
Cor Russell Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
HIMSELF CURED
Mr, Robert E.
PARKHURST
° f Pitt st -. Sydn y. says if any sufferer from DEBILITY.
KIDNEY or BLADDER DISEASE will write him he will inform
them of the perfect home cure that did the work in his case.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAISMPCO;
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOE MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Warrego,
Friday, September 12.
S.S. Marloo,
Saturday, September 13.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Innamincka, Saturday,
September 13.
S.S. Warrego, Sat., Sept. 20.
S.S. Adelaide, Sat., Sept. 27.
Best and Cheapest lioute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith Co.,
Ld. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. INI. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINIi
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydnej r , Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Twice weekly, via Bris-
bane, Maryborough, anti Bundaberg.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
via MELBOURNE—Fortnightly.
Vussent/er A ccommodatlon, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. 11. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Agents, lo Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
D AND COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting 1 at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
Sydney,
Noon
. Sept. 20
. Oct. 4
Oct. 18
Oct. 29
iNov. 15
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £77
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific,
Messageries Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices.
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydnev.
R- BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. RHP R.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for tie Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Through bookings to points in Canada, United States
of America and Europe at special rates.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
Lowest Fares and Freights.
For further information apply to
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT and GO-, Managing Agents'.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
. SMOKE . .
TJeUi
<9°
GBD
INSIST
having this Brand
and no other,
Largest Depot:
231 CLAR€NC€ STR€€T,
SYDNEY.


SPRING
SUITINGS
Just Landed ex “ Oruba. ”
AN exceedingly choice selection of Patterns in
WORSTEDS, TWEEDS, and WEST OF
ENGLAND WOOLLENS. Also a Large and
Varied Assortment of FANCY FLANNEL
SUITINGS, in Greys, Blues and Shades.
We cordially invite a \isit of inspection frcm
old and new customers.
WB GUARANTEE A PERFECTLY
FITTING SUIT.
David Braham & Go.
TAILORS AND MERCERS,
73 & 75 King-st., Sydney.
FRINGES
Made of 'the Best Natural Curly Hair,
from 3a. 6d., ss. 6d. t 7s. 6d., 89. 6d.
to 10s. 6d. each,
jW. H. WIGZELL
lIP WILLIAM STREET,
' PLAITS
f2oin. long, 69, (sd,; '2oin., extra thick,
7s. 6d.
22in., 10s. 6d.; 22in., extra thick, 12s. 6d.
2tin., 15s. 6d.; 2iin., extra thick, 18s. Oil,
26in., 205.; 26in., extra thick, 255.
28in., 305.; 30in.,35«.; 30in., extra thick,4os.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as thick as
those sold elsewhere fpr the same morsoy.
WIGS MADE TO ORDER. '
ATRWORK 'DUTY JPRTRK, T (\ (VTITW.
CANT- B- BEAT
SAFETY RAZOR.
‘S'S
II
A
0"
Shaving with ordinary
„ & razors is not
easy for anybody. It
takes months, yes, years of
practice, and few during
the period escape many
and serious cuts. Even
with experience, despite
care, cuts may be inflicted.
Use the
CAN’T-B-BEAT
SAFETY RAZOR
Shave every morning with
Particularly Useful absolute ease, comfort,
at Sea. and security . . .
PRICE COMPLETE, in Case . . .. ss. 9d.
In Leather Case, with Extra Blade . . Bs. 9d.
EXTRA BLADES 2s. 3d.
Every Razor Guaranteed and Set ready for use.
TOILET REQUISITES—Lowest Price at . . .
S€ND US
YOUR PHOTOGRAPH.
TP you send a Photograph of yourself (or friend) to
Mr. Mark Blow, Crown Studios, Sydney,
he will reproduce from it a very beautiful and
Artistioally Finished
Permanent Enlargement
In Black and White, equalling a rich Steel Plate
Engraving, handsomely mounted on an Indian-tinted
Plate, sunk mount, and as good in every way as Enlarge-
ments now being supplied at from 30/- to 50/- each, and
will carefully pack it and send ic Carriage Paid to any
address in Australia, Tasmania, or New Zealand for 10/6.
Your Photo. Returned with Order.
SE No. 56 ACETYLENE GAS Catalogue
• p I
•uuhi 1
is the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Best
ACETYLENE CAS GENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, and
everything in connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatlo
Acetylene Gas
Generators
in daily use.
Large Stocks of the
Best
Carbide
of Calcium
Quotations on application.
James MARTIN & CO,
161 Clarence Street,
Nr. King-st. ,'Sydney.
51
ill
w
£
i
''-a
IN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade — viz. , the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
9ct. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0. or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, 15ct.
gold, filled, Bs. 6d. Illustrated catalogues sent free.
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address —
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, MELBOURNE. AUSTRALIA
No. 2
10/- BROWNIE 10/-
KODAK.
fs>
<®
a
Send for Illustrated Leaflet,
and mention this paper.
KODAK Ltd.,
284 COLLINS STREET, MELbOURNE
And of all Photographic Dealers.
CAN’T-B-BEAT RAZOR
HOLLOW
GROUND
Can’t-B-Beat
Itazors are manufactured
from the very finest English
.Razor Steel, and warranted ground by the
most expert workmen in the world, who excel
in this branch of skilled labor.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, J-inch .. 4s. 9d.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, f-inch .. ss. 3d.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, f-inch .. ss. 9d.
Oan’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, |-inch . . 6s. 3d.
Can’b-B-Beat Razor, with ivory handle .. 10s. 6d.
Presentation Case—containing Two
Can’t-B-Beat Razors, ivory handles .. 218.
MICK SIMMONS) haymarke" SYDNEY
Cinematographe Films
Coronation Subjects .
Now
Arriving.
W. WATSON & SONS ,
Sole Agents for Paul • Noted Films (
78 Swanston-St., MELBOURNE.
CAPILLA
HAIR
TONIC
The Wonder of the Age.
ALL CHEMISTS
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA.
The Inky Way.
At various times attempts have been made in Australia
to found a Journalists’ Union, always without success.
The various daily newspaper proprietaries, whilst com-
peting, with great apparent eagerness, among themselves
for the public patronage, are firmly united in resisting
any movement which would prevent “sweating” in the
profession. Proposals for the formation of “ clubs ” and
“ institutes ” J(with managers and directors as guides,
patrons, and officers) are always welcomed, but each of
the attempts to form a genuine “ union ” among press-
men has been followed by a prompt “ victimising " of the
chief organisers. But an effort to establish a Journalists’
Union, in N.S.W. at least, should be made now, since
the Arbitration Court would protect its officers and mem-
bers from any invidious action on the part of newspaper
bosses. There is certainly great need for such an
organisation. Wages are trending steadily downward ;
the employment of youths and “improvers” to do
reporters’ work at a fourth of a reporter’s proper remu-
neration increases yearly; and the work expected of a
man becomes more and more arduous. And aside from
the need of union in those directions, there is a call for a
body which will have authority to define the status of
journalism, and weed out the numerous parasites and
cadgers who degrade the calling.
There would, of course, be some difficulties in the way
of a journalists’ union, more particularly as regards
classification. But a division into three classes (a) editors
and leader-writers, (b) sub-editors and senior reporters,
and (c) junior reporters, would be fairly easy. Some
trades unions classify and provide minimum wage rates
for a dozen or more different branches of a particular
industry, and what a Boot Trade Union or a
Tailors’ Union can do should surely be within the
compass of a Journalists’ Union. But, of course, that’s not
the real difficuity. Even among such knowledgable men
as journalists there is a good deal of snobbery and the
idea that a union is not “ genteel ” has stood in the way
of organisation hitherto, though, Heaven knows, there is
enough of grievance to impress the necessity for it.
At present staff members are almost absolutely
at the mercy of the proprietors; some of the
big dailies have an understanding among them-
selves _ not to “ steal one another’s men," which
means in effect that a man dissatisfied with his salary on
a “great daily" in Sydney can’t get a show on the
allied papers in Melbourne, Adelaide, or Brisbane.
All the competing newspapers of Australia are per-
manently united in importing cables and condensing
salaries ; occasionally groups of them sink all differences
to protest against a paper-duty or to engineer a postal or
telegraphic concession. If the bosses can have a union,
why should not the men ?
* * * *
S.M. Herald, which (ye gods!) now actually has a
column headed “ Personal Items," has otherwise fallen
into line with the rest of the big dailies and prints
occasional illustrations. It was during the Federal cam-
paign that Editor Willoughby first put illustrations in
the Argus. Several outraged subscribers at once stopped
the paper. “ Kew Asylum is full of gibbering old men,
who can only rock themselves all day, muttering
softly to themselves, ‘My Argus has got pictures 1 My
Argus has got pictures 1’ ’’ used to be a favorite joke of
Editor Willoughby. And the jest had a foundation of
truth: the Argus illustrations were enough to drive a
man to drink or idiocy.
• • • •
Brotherly love was warm during the Torrey-Alexander
mission between a N.S.W. and a Vic. religious printing-
office. Sydney Christian World issued a penny daily
edition of the proceedings ; the Vic. Southern Cross
issued a 3d. one. The S.O. printed a huge poster saying
that one of the principals recommended it ; whereupon
the C.W. got the same signature recommending it, and
also besought the N.S.W. people not to patronise Vic-
torian opposition. The Eatonswill element, by the way,
is almost absent nowadays from the Australian press-
excepting the “ religious” rags.
» * • •
Mr. Jabez Packer, religious editor of Sydney D.T. and
Baptist local-preacher, was most of the brains behind the
recent Simultaneous Mission boom. The Yanks paid him
£7 a week and expenses to travel around the continent
with them and “work the press.” Mr. Packer had his
first training under Maiden Tribute W. T. Stead, and so
knows how to exploit the “business” side of holiness.
He’s a clever paragraphist, and makes his religious column
interesting with occasional items which are almost
worthy of the smoking-room.
* » • •
The Jury (Sydney), whose main purpose in life was to
abuse John Norton, is dead. John always had a winning
way with the jury.
* • • •
There’s nobody more pitiful than the man who wants to
get his name put in the paper ; unless it’s the man who
wants it kept out.
• v • *
Our famous men, as they are known in S’Africa—extract
from a Mafeking paper : “ Owing to protracted drought,
the Hon. A. Beakin, the Attorney-General of the Aus-
tralian Commonwealth, communicated with Hon. K. John,
Secretary to the Premier of New South Wales, regarding
the proposal to suspend grain and fodder duties in all the
States.”
• * * *
“Revilo”: Maoriland journals have been making an
all-round advance lately. Tri-weeklies are merging into
dailies, and bi-weeklies into tri-weeklies; linos, and monos,
are installed in offices, and so on. Staid, conservative
Auckland Herald is now a penny (Coronation memento
said to be). It is.the last of the Australasian big sheets
to knuckle down to the modest “ brown.” N.Z. Times
has run up a big three-storeyed building and put in up-to-
date machines. The Mail (the Times weekly) is at last to
be illustrated. Since Editor Kelly has been at the helm,
the Times has made rapid progress. Another change in
management recently (about the 50th during the last
decade). “Monty” Bannister is now in charge. The
Bannisters have stuck to the Times through thick and
thin, and put not a few dollars into the concern.
* • * *
The petty spirit of which the Argus can be capable,
was shown in a recent paragraph calling attention to the
fact that an allowance for “ tea ” money was being made
to the Federal Hansard men. The general public does
not understand the severe pressure under which Hansard
staff labors, but the pressman who wrote the par. does.
Fact was that the Hansarders were invited to apply for
this allowance in common with the other House officials.
♦ * * *
Labouchere, of London Truth, prides himself on the
number of his libel suits. He has defended 44 actions to
date, of which 19 were abandoned or settled and 17 won.
In some of the eight which he lost damages awarded
were only trifling. Twice Labouchere has been in dock
charged with criminal libel, and in each case he was
acquitted. To win a case he has often found to be expen-
sive. The Zierenberg action, which he won, cost him
£7OOO, and he could recover nothing from the plaintiffs.
» » • *
Illustrations in “ respectable ” weekly papers in Aus-
tralia run more and more on Police Gazette lines ; some
of the Mt. Kembla pictures, for example, and the fre-
quent publication of photographs of semi-nude corpses in
tragedy cases (the Gininderra case to wit).
• » * •
Sydney Sunday Times cable-service is occasionally
marked by an unintelligent anticipation of happenings.
A recent fable in its columns : —“Sunday Times ‘special
message ’ (London, August 16) : ‘ Later in the day the
Boer generals witnessed the great naval review, being
guests of the Government.’ ” And the generals
(treacherous scoundrels !) didn’t attend. The Sunday
Times cables often make one smile.
* * » »
Mr. H. W. Little, who is always writing to the papers
about High Church Anglican matters, is understood (on
poor authority) to have been responsible for converting
John Norton to High Anglicanism. A little, clean-shaven
man, employed in some capacity on Sydney Evening
News, H.W.L. knows all the mysteries of Ritualism, and
all about “ the Fathers ” and the “ Eastern position ” and
the “sacreing” of a king, and has other most curious
knowledge. He seems to be about the only person in
Australia who takes Anglicanism really seriously.
Quite a number of Melb. pressmen, in their anxiety to
get relief from daily-paper drudgery, have taken up land
and started farming on a small scale. As most of them
start with the advantage of expert advice as to “ the lay
of the land," they are not losing by their ventures. Big
“ Tom ” Gilchrist, formerly of the Argos, but now secre-
tary to the Railways Standing Committee, has been
especially successful, and the wines produced on his
small holding, out Whittlesea way, have gained various
prizes in the last few years.
* * * »
Delane has often been cracked up as the most wonder-
ful editor London Times ever had. Yet the day before
war was declared between France and Prussia, he wrote.:
“ We are now, happily, in a position to state that there is
no longer any danger of a war between France and
Prussia.” He neglected to make any provision for the
dispatch of war-correspondents, and the Daily News, in
conjunction with a N.Y. newspaper proprietary, got
immeasurably ahead of the Times in the early stages of
the conflict.
• • • •
Australian print shops are now exhibiting an imported
newspaper illustration of the Coronation, with Salisbury
(who was conspicuous by his absence) showing plainly.
* * * *
Victorian railway employees during the late trouble had
nothing to thank the Melbourne press for. The Age
printed nothing in their favor. The Argus certainly
did give space to a letter or two from their side. Other-
wise the two papers were eager to prejudice a not too
sympathetic public against the employees. Many country
men blame the press for misleading them as to the true
position, and causing them to waver when they should
have been most solid. This was reflected in the ballot-
papers, which was the possible cause of the withdrawing
of the “ strike ” threat.
• • • *
Out of a column of “ Country News," in a Sydney daily,
the other day, no less than eight paragraphs published
this sort of thing : “ Councillor Dash is in a critical state
of health,” “ Presentation of Bible to Miss Sunday
School,” “Ditto of purse to Rev. Mr. Balderdash,”
“ Mailman broke his leg,” “ Councillor’s son fractured his
arm,” and so forth. One has perforce to wade through a
column of common or oaten chaff to get at one small
grain of wheat. Beyond occasional tragedies, the only
country news of general interest refers to the weather
and the crops; the public has absolutely no interest in
the appearance of a pimple on Councillor Smith’s nose,
or the breaking of a Mayor’s wooden leg through falling
off a clothes-horse.
His Choice.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Married ?—and when ? ”
The man flung down his riding-whip, and,
booted and spurred as he was, flung himself on
the couch, with a spurious carelessness that
showed him not at ease. “Three months ago,”
he answered, wearily.
The woman, standing in the centre of the room,
leaned on a chair for support, and went white to
the lips : “ You—married ! Who married you ? ”
“ That’ll do, Sue ! A she-devil; a maniac ; a
putty-faced fool who didn’t know enough to come
in out of the wet. In short, Sue, I’ve been a
damned fool.”
“ And you’ve come back to me?” She laughed
—an ugly little laugh, that he knew of old. “ A
pretty compliment you pay me. You tire of your
lawful wife’s embraces. You come to me. And,
oh ! Walter, I was good to you, wasn’t I ? ”
She laid her hand on his shoulder. He seated
her on the couch beside him. “Yes 1 yes 1 And
you will be again, little woman ? ”
“ That depends.”
“On what?”
“You won’t go back to her any more ? ”
He winced at the direct question. “ I must—
for the sake of appearances.”
“ And yet you love me better ? ”
“Yes.”
She shook her head, half-doubting. “We’ll
see.” She moved towards the chair again. It
was necessary that she should keep from the touch
of his hands. “ Tell me your plans.”
“ I haven’t any, Sue.”
“Shall I tell you the programme you’ve
planned ? ”
“ Go on.”
“You’re going to run a harem of two. I’m to
be handmaiden.”
“ No ! I swear ” he started from his seat.
“Sit there! I want to talk to you. Don’t
come nearer. You intend to keep up appearances
with your respectable wife, who, according to
your statement, is fitter for my position than I
for hers. I lived six months with you. You
never spoke of her. For three months I haven’t
seen you. You come to me when you tire of her,
and you intend to go on—from my house to hers.
Am I nearly right ? ”
“But, Sue, you won’t mind.”
She colored hotly. “ Won’t I? Then some day
she and I will grow old, and the law that knows
men, won’t compel you to keep me from the Bene-
volent, or worse, while she will be rewarded for her
honorable services ! No thanks! Now this is my
plan! You’ve gone-in for respectability—got
married. It hasn’t suited you well. Somehow I
think my case will be better. Anyway I’ll try
it!”
“What?”
‘ ‘ Respectability.
“ Sue ! I’ll stick to you ”
“ I shall follow my lord’s example.”
“Surely not; you’re joking ! I love you, Sue.
You’re glorious compared with her ! I did not
care for her! It was arranged somehow; a
marriage of convenience; and it suited my people.
But you ! Come—l will not let you go ! ”
He had her in his arms and covered her with
passionate kisses. She locked her hands on his
neck instinctively. Then, remembering, she forced
herself away.
“You love me still! ”he said triumphantly.
“ Yes.” She moved to the chair again, her face
growing harder through the necessity for re-
pression.
“What devil’s mood has taken vou to-night,
Sue?”
“I’m qualifying—for—Respectability.”
He looked askance at her. “ You intend to
marry, then ? ”
“Yes.”
“And who is the lucky man ?
“ Guess.”
“Ralston—Haines—no, damn it! You’d never
be satisfied with those boobies. Grainger—too
slow for you. Who is the man ? ”
“Yourself.”
“Me?” he laughed loudly. “Come here, my
girl. I knew you were only joking.”
“It is this —You will take me to town, and
there we shall be married quietly. You will be
mine then. Should you go back to her, the Law,
which makes you support her, will also , make you
support me—for it will punish you, rich as you
are. You cannot have both of us. Now I leave
you to choose.” She moved to the door.
“ It is not necessary.”
She shook her head sadly: “ Yes, Walter.
“Why ? ”
“ Choose —Me or Respectability.”
He sat awhile staring at the closed door.
* * * *
As she heard the clinking of the spurs die a/way
in the night she said to herself, bitterly: “Like
a man —Respectability ! ”
v.
MATCHBOX.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Largo
bottles Is. everywhere.
Somebody writes to the Sydney papers to
complain of the practice “of men of the local
volunteer regiments wearing their uniforms when
off duty.” But it’s safe to say that a prohibition
against wearing uniforms, except when on duty,
would drive 25 per cent, of the rank and file and 50
per cent, of the officers out of the volunteer ranks
altogether. Half of the officers of such corps as
the Saint Narcissus’ Rifles and the Aboi’iginal
Bayoneteers are officers simply for the pride and
joy of wearing gaudy uniforms to impress the girl
in the private bar and to cut a dash in the subur-
ban drawing-room. You may see officers (and
gentlemen) at the theatres in all the glory of silver
lace and colored cloth, not forgetting spurs ; and
a list of the occupations which these officers follow
would further betray the prevalence of the snob in
Australian military circles. The volunteer and
partially-paid officers are, as often as not, merely
fools with a desire to strut in fine feathers, or
undertakers, money-lenders, tailors, and so on,
who have a snobbish idea of becoming “ gentle-
men ” by means of a commission.
Harry Morant and his sorry fate, told of
in “Bushman and Buccaneer” (now in its second
edition). The history of the Breaker and his
verses and letters, including photo, reproduction
of the Pietersburg gaol MS. Price one shilling.
Wholesale from Edwards, Dunlop and Co. Retail
from all booksellers and Bulletin office (post
free Is. Id.)


For LONG-DISTANCE WORK
on the road where strength is desirable an
to be despised, you should be mounted on a
RED BIRD BICYCLE
you " ■sx&ass s«s& y «Soj2,“Si a smi* as-* -
Branches in every State. GOOLP BICYCLE CO., 64 King Street.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Hardy’s Tintara Wines
Absolutely Pure;
Adelaide:
CURRIE STREET
A
Fully Matured;
Melbourne:
COLLINS STREET
A
700 Medals, etc.
Sydney:
GROSVENOR STREET
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Success of Abundance in A.J.C. Derby brought
him into strong request for the coming V.R.O. blue
ribbon. Latest eliminations were Brakpan and Our State
(on the course), leaving seven starters, and at that the
field was well up to the average of recent years, and its
quality, on the whole, good. Abundance was bred by
Victorian Jas. Wilson, sen., near Queenscliff; by imported
Pilgrim’s Progress from Beanfeast, by Plebian from Fes-
tival, by Sterling. The time (2.45) was somewhat slow,
and would have been slower had the winner not forced
things over the last half of the trip. Trident’s Derby
finished 7sec. faster, but many others haven’t been as
speedy. Abundance had been trained at Randwick for
months past. Many “wouldn’t have him” because his
neck and shoulders didn’t fit in with their ideals, and
because jocks, who had ridden the nag, gave out that he
was clumsy. Abundance is engaged in the V.R.O. Derby,
the Caulfield Cup (7.9) and Melbourne Cup (7.5), wherein
he will, in view of his Derby success, be compelled to
hump lib. more.
• * • *
Only malcontent on course of 29 carded for
A.J.C. Epsom, Saturday, was Sir Leonard, who, if started,
would have carried a big weight of coin for the cutest of
punters. Money came so persistently for Cyanide that
she went out a hot first choice at 9 to 2 against—this
mainly on the strength of a gallop at Rosehill. when the
Metal mare beat by lsec. a great go credited to Oast Iron
on the same course. A bolt of 11 m. completely settled
Juindo’s prospects. The luck of the race was all with
Ibex and Air Motor, inasmuch as they got well away, and
stayed in front, until the straight saw Ibex do his stopping
act in most pronounced fashion and then retire. Here
Air Motor assumed the lead, and, opposite the Leger, was
lengths away from all others. A great roar went up as
Sequence was seen forging forward, wiping Air Motor
out amid intense excitement. Jocks and nags had every
ounce on it, and it looked as if Sequence’s mighty effort
would pull him through. Suddenly another yell proclaimed
the appearance of Cyanide going great guns, but the end
was all too near, and Air Motor flashed past the post a
neck to the good from Sequence, whose head was partly
m front of Cyanide’s. It was a magnificent effort on
Sequence’s part with the steadier of 10.3, and he had a
none too comfortable passage all the way. Cyanide, too,
was badly placed the whole journey, and only got through
when the race looked over. Heavily-backed Myall and
Bon Voyage were never sighted once during the running.
Only two Epsoms since The Novice’s in ’B9 have been
slower than the latest, the time for which (1.41) would
have, years back, been written marvellous. The record
(1.38 J) belongs to Sequence, and was made last year.
* * * «
Air Motor was bred by Mr. H. L. Mackellar at
Kirkham, and is by imported Ayr Laddie (by Ayrshire
from Catherine Douglas, by Sterling) from Windmill, who
was by Goldsbrough from Merry-Go-Round, by Hamlet
from Whirlpool (imp.) by Fitz Roland. Air Motor is in
Caulfield Cup with 6.13 and Melbourne Cup with 7.3,
exclusive of 141 b. penalty in former and 101 b. in latter.
* * * m
First half-mile of A.J.C. Derby occupied lmin.,
the last mile 1.45£, aud last 6fur. 1.16.
* * ♦ *
JEtandwick has never seen a bigger crowd than
on Saturday last (Derby day), when quite 23,000 passed
the turnstiles and provided the fattest “ gate ” ever
known. Tram traffic is officially announced as the
heaviest recorded —approximately, 150 car-loads of people
were carried to the course.
* * * »
A.J.C, Metrop., run on Monday, #will always be
remembered for the very disappointing performances of
the two red-hot favorites, Patronage and Cyanide, who, for
some weeks past, have been showing excellent form, and
the fact that, for the first time since Yowi won 11 years
ago, the race went to a nag below the 7.7 mark. Winner,
Queen of Sheba, carried 6.7, and started fourth choice (12
to 1) in the betting. Patronage went out 7 to 4 and
Cyanide 3 to 1 against, while the best obtainable about
Felicitous, who got into the market with a late rush, was
7 to 1. The struggle was almost completely devoid of
incident. Caravel (principally) cut out the running to the
3fur. post, where Queen of Sheba headed him and in an
exciting finish beat The Persian by half-a-length with Air
Motor a similar distance off third. Patronage, buried
in the ruck until the last furlong, came with great
dash at the end and was just behind the placed
horses as they passed the judge. Air Motor, handicapped
with a 101 b. penalty through her success in the Epsom,
was always well up with the leader or second, thus
unarguably demonstrating that the winning of the mile on
Saturday was far from a fluke. Race was soundly run
throughout, and the time (2.36), though behind the
record, was distinctly good, particularly as track con-
ditions were against a speedy performance. Only twice
has the Metrop. ljm. journey been thrown behind faster
—by Survivor in ’97 and San Fran last year, the figures
in each instance being 2.35. The Persian showed great
grit and pace ; he was not visible till the run home, and
then finished game enough to get near pipping the money,
for Queen of Sheba tired very fast.
* ♦ *
Bay Eagle endorsed his Grand National form by
literally running away with the A.J.C. first Steeple, Mon-
day. Best backed opponents were Victorian rep. Drum-
mer, the Riverina lepper Railway, and Monarch, winner
of Hunt Club ’Chase at Rosehill, recently. Palings at
the foot of the hill were responsible for Masher and
Timmey each coming a cropper early. Monarch hit the
fence near the half-mile post and lost his rider, B. Walley,
who had an arm fractured. Railway and Bay Eagle raced
together till the palings ,at the bottom of the hill were
reached a second time ; there, Railway turned turtle,
followed by Muskeith, leaving Bay Eagle with a final lead
of, perhaps, 150yds from Sportsman. Drummer was a
long way off, third.
• » * *
Queen of Sheba, winner of rich Metrop., is a
light-fleshed five-year-old mare bred by late Mr. W. For-
rester at Warwick Farm (Sydney). She was raced un-
profitably by her breeder and another, and at the dis-
persal of Mr. Forrester’s stud passed into the hands of
present owner, W. R. Wotten, who got her for 55gs.
She comes from a good galloping family, being by
Niagara, from Happy Land, by Metal (imp.) from Pales-
tine, by Epigram from Matilda, by Yelverton from
Pauline, by The Swede from Camilla, by Capapie from
Violet, by Gratis from Camilla, by Bay Camerton from
Old Betty by Hector.
Said that Queen of Sheba’s owner, “Dick’
Wootton, who has had a long run of ill-luck, threw in for
a big win, and, besides the £2OOO prize, gathered some-
thing over £lOOO in bets and a like sum from the drawer
of the nag in “ Tatt.’s ” sweep. Queen of Sheba was well
backed for the lipsom, but could get no nearer than
seventh, though it is told now that she was badly inter-
fered with twice. Few spectators noticed the happenings,
and it was on the strength of this information that the
stable and its connections made such a substantial haul.
* * m ■*
Strata Florida showed much of his quality in
the New Stakes at Randwick on Monday, giving Free
States, Brakpan, and others no hope right through. It’s
odds on that this colt, which cost Mr. W. T. Jones 1300 gs.
as a yearling, will improve as the season advances,
and may, in the V.R.O. blue riband, reverse the A.J.C.
Derby running. He is by Grafton from Ladv Trenton, by
Trenton, and has engagements in the two Cups, with 7.2
(Caulfield) and 6.12 (Melbourne) to hump.
Despite the known exceptional powers of Mr.
L. McDonald’s galloping machine, Wakeful, many capable
Judges expected Sir Leonard to beat her in the Spring
Stages on opening day (Saturday) of A.J.O. Spring meet,
and took 5 to 2 freely, while Mo asked 7 to 4 t’other way
But Wakeful went to the front 6 furlongs from home
and, though Sir Leonard challenged, she galloped
superbly, and literally cantered away from the Impetus
nag, who had earlier been withdrawn from the Epsom
(wherein his prospects were second to none) On that
showing, all the A.J.O. w.f.a. races looked good things
for W akeful. 6
* * * •
El Koran is likely to prove the best of the South
Australian 3-ycar-olds. The son of Koran was goin? well
S. A.J.O. Derby up to the turn for home, where his
saddle slipped, and he lost his place.
• • • *
Brood mare Camilla died at Nandowra, near
Scone, t’other day. She was by Kingfisher from a
daughter of Cheddar (imp.). Cadet, C. 8., Victor, Brook-
lyn, Camillus and La Hogue were out of Camilla, who,
when she died, had a foal at foot by Lennox.
* * * •
For fiendish brutality that “international mili-
tary ride ” from Brussels to Ostend, in which 13 out of
the 71 horses engaged died of exhaustion, takes a high
place. It wasn’t even useful in a military sense. Certainly
it proved that cavalry isn’t fit for service after doing 13
hours through heavy sand, but that much was known
already. Also it proved that 13 blackguards out of 71
would rather ride a dumb animal to death than drop out
of a senseless race, and probably a large proportion of the
other 58 blackguards were built on similar principles
but that much was also known already. A French black-
guard of the rank of lieutenant won. His horse was
amongst those that died. If there is any poetic justice in
the world he should be haunted by its ghost, and its
spectre should look over his shoulder and breathe horribly
into his absinthe all the rest of his days.
• * • *
Ahsan ul Hak is the latest importation of
Middlesex County (Eng.)—the county which gave a place
to ex-Australians Albert Trott and Roche. In English
cricket circles it doesn’t seem to be a question of where
a person comes from, or whether he is black, brown,
yellow, or the colors of a rainbow—the only qualification
needed is that he can play cricket.
* * * *
No matter how the concluding engagement of
the tour may go, Trumper has added to his laurels the
record of best average ever obtained by an Australian
batsman in England, even if he does not notch another
run. This, too, without the aid of a solitary “ not out.”
Victor also has the unique experience of nearly 50
journeys to the batting-crease with not one failure to
score registered against him.
* * * *
Cabled that, exclusive of himself, Lord Hawke
had eight players assured for the M.L. tour. Personnel
doesn’t, as regards strength, impress one much, though
it may be equal to any combination M.L. can get
together. Talked of match (which seems possible)
between N.S.W. and the Englishmen on their homeward
journey should result fairly easily against the latter.
Best bats of the team are Burnup and Warner, of whom
former was the seventh Englishman to get his thousand
this season—with an average of 32.54.. and both have
shaped successfully for the Gentlemen against the Players
on different occasions. Bar ex-Australian Albert Trott,
who it is said, will re-visit M.L. and probably play with
the Englishmen occasionally, only bowlers are Hargreave
and Wilson.
* * • •
L. O. S. Poidevin, erstwhile N.S.W, represen-
tative cricketer, now studying medicine in London, was
the first member of London County Club to score the
coveted 1000 runs ; and that club includes such per-
formers as Old Man Grace, Murdoch, and Braund
(occasionally).
• • * •
Players opposed to Australians at Harrowgate,
last week, were, on the whole, but a second-rate lot;
their best combination was engaged against the Gentle-
men, at Scarborough, and, as most close followers of
cricket anticipated, the home side went under badly— by
an innings and 47 runs. Vic. Trumper notched his tenth
century (127) of the tour, and now only wants three more
to be level with Fry’s much-trumpeted record of last
year, when fine weather prevailed. Conning over totals
made by Trumper in each of his half-score of hundreds
suggests the notion that, after getting the three figures,
he became careless or played out, for not once has he
topped his initial accumulation (128), though latest neared
it; particularly is this impressed by the ease with which
he adds to his lot till the hundred is passed.
• • * *
. Thornton’s English eleven, against Aus-
tralia, embraced seven Yorkshire players. Spite of lead-
ing by 49 in first innings, and several times looking to
have good prospects during 1 English second essay, which
was closed with 9 wickets down, Australians couldn’t get
the 154 set them quickly enough ;when time expired they
had gathered 120 with 4 wickets down, but the draw was
muchun their favor. Trumper (l.b.w. on each occasion)
scored most in both innings—62 first and 55 next.
* * * *
Match, Australia versus South of England now
progressing is the second last of the lot listed. Programme
will finish with that against the opening on Mon-
day next. Possibly, something extra might be fixed for
last three days of this week. Previous match present tour
between same elevens fell to Australia by 131, towards
which result Trumble contributed largely by taking 8 for
Do and o tor zo.
• * . ,
Up to and inclusive of match with Thornton’s
Eleven, seven Australians had run into four figures for
which takes rank with happenings during tours
or f 93 ’fl Afc mornent of writing Gregory wants
th °V l -’ and lf he can manage the task this
team will add another record to the many already created.
SiS^^fia ed^ preBent one saw Gregory
* • •
Englishman Abel has accumulated his 2000
Ab ° u “ W ,° mont . hs back he’d reached 1523, so the remain-
in B 477 were slowly made. Abel had got in several
f 6f ?- re trumper started, but near the end of July
the Australian was only 96 behind the Britisher. Now,
when Abel has his 2000, Trumper’s aggregate is 2205.
* * ♦ *
Solicitor Mr. Chas. Davis, who died at Peter-
mcmh* 4 fi was among the few remaining original
members of Warwick (Sydney) Cricket Club, which
existed 40 years, and he was once treasurer of the NSW
“Bmv t ”'Mn 0 r C dnch° n ' W , itdhim famous Australian bat
Billy Murdoch served his articles for the legal pro-
fession. Through Mr. Davis’ instrumentality Billowell
was brought from Penrith to Sydney and under the
notice of metropolitan cricketing people.
* » * .
T”, tb ® . return N.S.W.-Queensland football-
-5 onnnsWfifE™’ Saturday > before 9000 people, personnel
°PP°s in g fifteens was same as previous week eveenf-ino-
that Johnston took Gordon's place, and Flegg Lamb? "n
N.S.W. team, while Nicholson was replaced by Walsh
and Freestone by A. Colton on Q. side. N.S.W scored
first, getting 3 through an easy try. Further on loose
s™ ' v °r k ,f aw Q. too good, Ld l converted toy gave
them 5. Subsequent to half-time, N.S.W. showed the
a Wh -’ le ’ bufc Q’ came Irresistibly, and, by
dint of brilliant passing, secured a try, making scores 8-3
m its favor. Just before this N.S.W. haf Finlev
badly hurt. N.S.W. now attacked vigorously
despite the bold front of home combination and soon
be u g c ° nverted < made scores 8 all.
A quickly following similar happening gave N.S.W 5
more, and then the game ended that way—l 3-8. This
was visiting side’s first win in Brisbane since ’99.
Superior condition alone triumphed. Swimming, dieting,
early hours, and a close preparation generally during the
week intervening since the previous Saturday’s defeat
did wonders for N.S.W. men.
* * * •
King’s School, Parramatta, again carried off
the N.S.W. Great Public School Rugby Premiership—
this time with an unbeaten record and the championship.
It played eight competition matches (and the only score
recorded against it was a penalty goal) amassing 163
points against opponents’ three. During the last two
years the King’s School line has only been crossed once
during competition matches, and only nine points have
been put up against it. It won the shield continuously
from 1890 to 1895; Newington College won in 1896;
Sydney Grammar School in 1897 to 1899; Newington
College in 1900; King’s School in 1901 and 1902—50 that
in 13 years the latter has won eight times (in 1897 and
IS9B it didn’t compete, owing to a dispute), and on six
occasions gained the title of champion—which is given to
the team which goes through the season without a defeat.
It is also the only college which has gained the title of
champion. The Schools’ Challenge Shield has been the
means of augmenting each year the prosperous University
Football Club, which has frequently gone so close to
annexing the senior grade—in fact, ex-King’s School boys
numbered nearly half the team which occupied the posi-
tion of runner-up during the past season.
• • • *
Richmond (Yic.), having won the Association
football premiership the other Saturday, proceeded next
day to cheerfully rub it into their chief opponents—
Ports. Both teams were level till the last match, when
Ports went down before Williamstown. Sunday after-
noon Richmond barrackers, in four drags and a dozen
waggonettes, with horses decked out in yellow-and-black
and players’ stockings on the horses’ legs, drove allround
the suburbs, winding up with a real joyful time in Port
Melbourne. Several willing goes resulted, and the cele-
bration threatened at one time to develop into a riot.
* * * *
Ingenuous note received by a prominent Vic.
footballer from the secretary of a school club :
“ Dear Sir, —You have been recommended to us as a
good firm referee, and so should be obliged if you could
assist us against team. They are rather a rough lot
of players, and we are comparatively small and light, so
watch their men and be firm and just, and we shall ever
be grateful.
P.S. Please kindly note that, if we win, drinks will be
free for the referee, and we hope you will not be nervous,
but firm and just.
* * * *
Stan. Wickham, captain of N.S.W. football
team now in Queensland, first appeared in representative
football in 1895 against Central Queensland ; and has since
played against Mongrelia (1896-1901) and M.L. (1897-
1901). lie is captain, also, of the Western Suburbs, which
recently won the Premiership ; and is admitted to be the
best three-quarter footballer now in the State.
Plugger Bilmartin writes, from Yankeedom,
that the ’Murkan saucer track “ sits up like the roof of a
house, and makes him feel very uncomfortable. Men
used to it can run rings round those who are not. It
gives you no time to think ; the minute you start think-
ing you stop and skiddle down to the pole and fall under.
There d be heaps of fun and money in building a saucer
track in Australia, and charging admission to see men
have their first ride on it.”
* * • *
M. Chappell, the winner of the Dunlop Road
Race from Warrnambool to Melbourne, is 25 years old
stands sft. sin., and weighs 9st. 101 b. He had no adven-
tures of any sort on the race ; the tucker supplied agreed
with him excellently, and he got home first by riding
himself to a thorough standstill. So complete was his
exhaustion that, on taking a hot bath just after the
finish, he fell asleep in the bath, and his mate had no
small trouble to awake him. A cold shower frightened
him up, however, and he soon got right again. This win
is Chappell s first noteworthy success on the bike
• * * *
Pankaroo ” : Melbourne motor-fiends turned
out m great force to view the finish of the Warrnambool-
Melb. road race. The inevitable dog was also on hand,
and brought a new 5-h.p. motor to an end. The motor-
man was whizzing along between the barriers, with a
smile on his face, when suddenly a dog worth about 6d.
rushed out and tackled the machine, and there was a
piteous hash of motor, dog, and driver. The dog had evi-
dently endeavored to seize the electric spark, but had by
mistake got the main cog.- The motor-car will never be
reasonably safe till some one invents a reliable dog-
remover to put in front of it and behind it.
* • » *
T,- T^, lis , fc of P enal *ies inflicted by the League of
Vic. Wheelmen during the past season is humorous read-
There were 13 “unsatisfactory,” 4 “foul,” and 6
s - 5, 1 ■ rs ’ while one cag e was “suspicious.” And
against this we have had the assertion of Bill Martin’s
trainer that all the starters, save four, in the final for last
year s Austral were squared.
* * » *
Floyd A. M'Farland, a Murkan cyclist of some
repute, who holds a number of championships for events
ranging from 1-mile to six-day contests, contemplates a
raid on this continent. He is 25 years of age, and the
tallest racing cyclist in the world, standing 6ft. 4in.
m his socks, and is known in the land of his
making—-the place where Nance O’Neil oomes from—
as the Elongated Californian.” He won his novice
race in 1895 ; and the same year he carried off
the amateur championship of the Pacific Coast, and since
then seems to have amused himself journeying from one
part of the Union to another to rake in dollars. It is
claimed for him that he is the greatest money-making
cyclist in the world, which is a good, large claim. This
country has an insatiable appetite for sports of any sort
who have hard cash to lose. This country’s love of
foreign capital, in fact, amounts to a disease.
* * * *
N.S. W. pigeon murdering supremacy was con-
tested, t other day, when 27 bird butchers, representa-
tives of Victoria, M.L. and N.S.W., made slaughter among
collection of weak fliers. Best performer of the day
although he didn’t win, was Victorian Daish, who grassed
a sequence of 16, all with the first barrel, and killed 20 of
the required 21. Goulburn (N.S.W.) man, H. Baxter, ap-
propriated the trophy and the honor (such as it is),
the only one to account for the full complement; it was
noticeable, too, that he got very few of the easiest things
Though there was a £5 sweepstake on the shoot Baxter
didn t get away with anything like the whole amount for
three divisions absorbed all the coin before the last round
was entered upon. The alleged pigeon-shooting sport is
a canny gentleman who, be the money prize ever so small
likes to handle some of it as early as possible and more as
he goes along. Neither Daish nor “Surbiton ” (Victoria)
had missed once till the 21st round, and then both went
out. Baxter divided Victorian premiership 14 years ago
so he is no chicken at the game. J "
* * * *
The Bulletin’s London correspondent: “ How
would the Austral-Angler like this applied to the Parra-
matta, or Yarra, or Brisbane river? It has just been
decided here that because Sir Roger anything owns the
land on both sides of the Thames for some miles, no one
hut he can fish the water from boat or otherwise. In fact
he owns the water-fishery because the water flows over
the soil that is his—so the ‘Mr. Justice’ decided. The
length in question was Maidenhead Bridge to Cookham
one of London’s few' real beauty spots.”
* * * *
He recent American par crediting
J. E. Gorman, of ’Frisco, with a world’3 revolver-shooting
record because he scored 934 points out of a possible
1000, nothing is said about the essential-to-be-known'
points of target size and shooting distance. Also a record
to be worth anything, must be made ir. a public oompeti-
™on' J A L B l sley , th ? revolver “ bull ”is 2in. diameter at
20 and 30yd. and 4in. at 50yd. No rest is allowed * the
bore of the pistol must not be under -38, and the trigger-
pull not under 31b. With contests conducted on these
conditions all over the world the performances of the
shooters can be compared ; but in some American com-
petitions a much smaller bore and a “hair’’-pull are
allowed, thus conducing to more accurate shooting
owing to absence of recoil and easy trigger. A smaller
bore than - 38 is not desirable when the target is alive, as
it is generally close, and must, therefore, be put hors-de-
combat before it can retaliate. Colonel Finn (ofN.S.W.)
told me a friend of his plugged a number of men with his
Mauser pistol (about '23 bore) in Egypt when the enemy
was charging, and not one dropped. Revolvers for target-
shooting only are made with a 7-in. barrel, and of as
small a bore as "22. A very small charge of powder in
ratio to bullet-weight is also used ; but, though pheno-
menal accuracy may be thus attained, the target-revolver
will hardly “ stop ” a man on the rush.
* « *
A well-known Yic. athlete put medical Melb.
by the ears, the other day. He swallowed the contents
of an unlabelled black bottle to allay his colic, and then
jumped to the conclusion that the mixture was a deadly
poison. Telephones were set going, and doctor after
doctor was rung up. The occurrence of the medical con-
gress, however, led to none being in, until finally a stay-
at-home practitioner was fluked on who hustled along
and pumped the muscular patient out. Scarcely had he
finished when another medico came along, and during
the next hour all Collins-st. East dropped in with
stomach-pumps and antidotes as they went home from
the place of meeting. To put an effective climax on the
comedy, the recovered athlete produced the bottle which
had done the awful deed, and found that it contained a
harmless cough-mixture. He is now diplomatising with
about 14 prominent medicos who want their fees.
* * » *
“T.D.”: As Sandow has been running his
physical culture colleges and his system for some years
now, isn’t it about time that he came along with a few
prize samples of his pupils ? The strong man states that
it only takes three years to attain to his own physical
perfection (proportionately, of course), and adds that he
was a bit of a weakling to begin with, and now lifts two
tons on occasion merely because he developed his muscles
scientifically for three years. Surely some promising
physiques must have been placed under Sandow’s care,
but one never hears of any Hercules but the boss
strong man himself as a product of the system. There is
surely some excuse for taking a large spoonful of salt
when he makes the announcement about his early un-
soundness.
• » * •
It is said that Prof. Miller, Melb.’s old-time
strong man, has a pupil somewhere out Williamstown
way who is willing to be pitted against Sandow.
* * » *
Easy success of blocky Jack M ‘Go wan Over
comparatively lathy Rollo for Australian lightweight pug
supremacy, in Sydney, t’other night, brings to mind the
mild manner of his training as compared with the extent
to which others go, and suggests the idea that his excep-
tional staying powers are, in some degree, attributable to
this fact. M’Qowan’s daily work while getting ready
consists of a five or six-mile walk in the morning, and a
lively, willing “go” with his trainer, Joe Stokesbury,
and some sprinting over 50 or 70 yards, to sharpen the
wind up, in the afternoon. This much, and no more, does
the little Melbourne terror, who, besides other notable
things, not long ago fought off the tall, very clever
middle-weight black, Tom Mitchell, for 20 rounds.
• * • •
“Upper-cut”: The death of Joe Goddard re-
calls my first sight of that cyclonic and courageous cham-
pion. It was at the old Crystal Palace, in Richmond
(Vic.), and Prof. King had just thrown out a challenge
to anybody of his weight, Herb. Goddard pre-
ferred. There rose above the far side of the
ropes a shining belltopper, and a gorgeous figure
entered the ring. It was tall and broad, and was attired
in a long coat, with deep astrachan round the collar and
cuffs ; that was Joe Goddard, the Barrier champion, then
just approaching the zenith of his fame. He did not
speak, but, reaching into his breast-pocket, brought forth
handfuls of notes there is no other way of describing
them—he simply shovelled his money out. That finished
Kibg. Herb. Goddard died of consumption seven or
eight years back, and Joe has now been shot by a drunken
German—or by a black policeman, accounts vary.
* * * *
Black bruiser Barnes and Murrumbidgee rough
’un Lynch fought a fierce, forceful thing at Sydney Gaiety
A. 0. last week. From beginning to end they went at each
other like a railway collision. Lynch, the cleverer, dealt
out sfoush in loads, but the negro was grit every inch and
was satisfied if he got a punch home once in away. Both
were strong all the time. They scrambled and scuffled
allover the floor, and through the ropes at times, while
the crowd screeched delightedly. It ended in Barnes
being’ knocked limp while the twelfth round was going
°P- Ea °h presented a badly “ slugged-out ” appearance
at the end, the black being much the worse ; but Lynch
was in a sorry plight, too.
• * * *
The “Kid” Parker-Williamsimposition atKal-
goorlie (W. A.), recently, about flattened out the already
tottering popularity of the bruising game in that
section, where, at one time, it paid well. Parker,
though a strong athlete ordinarily, never was a boxer,
and never could be. He is too muscle-bound, and can
only scramble and sprawl at best, but he didn’t even do
this with Williams who, fat as mud and ungainly to a
degree, labored round the ring like an old woman. A
punch on the arm or anywhere would see Parker go
down, and a lead would cause him to duck and grip the
other chap round the legs, and sometimes this would
trip Williams, and they’d sink to the-boards together like
a large shapeless mass of nothing in particular. It was
the sickest thing in fights ever the West suffered, which
is saying a deal. The farce terminated by Parker falling
to one knee in the third round without being hit, as he
often did before, and Williams, losing his head, struck
him while in that position—a distinct foul—but Parker’s
previous offences had shut off all sympathy with him, and
Williams got the verdict. Parker should stick to ball-
punching for Harry Rickards; he’s an artist at that—
nature never intended him for a fighter.
Ruined.
Business men speak of the fortunes of trade as
a sew-saw, one up and the other down. They
take their good and bad luck philosophically,
like the North American Indian, who believes
that what is to be will be. The utter fallacy of
this kind of reasoning may be seen in the manner
how the health steps in to decide whether a man
is to succeed in a commercial venture or not. Bad
health is often spelt in the word ruined. What
people require is a remedy that cures, after other
so-called remedies fail. The remedy that cured
these people will cure you. Truthful words are
like well aimed arrows; they are straight and
pointed, and fly true to the mark. There is no
fooling about the truth, it always strikes home,
and this is how the words written by Mrs. W.
Clarkson, Enmore, N.S.W., make such a deep
impression on everybody who reads them. She
writes :—“ Myself and family have been cured of
biliousness and liver ailments by using Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root pills. I can also state that they are
superior to all kinds of tonics for the hot and
muggy weather that we experience in New South
Wales.” Mrs. S. Aust, who resides at Hornsby-
street, Maldon, Vic., states: “1 havegreat pleasure
in testifying to the good results I have obtained
from the use of your Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. For some time I have suffered with severe
pains in the head, also nervousness, and after
taking two bottles of these pills, I had great
relief, and I can conscientiously give them a good
word wherever I go.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills are a perfect blood purifier, and a positive
cure for biliousness, indigestion, constipation,
headaches, sallow complexion, liver and kidney
troubles, piles, pimples, boils and blotches, and
for female ailments. Sold by chemists and
storekeepers, Is ljd per bottle, or six bottles 6s 6d.
Sole proprietors, The W. H. Comstock Co.,
Limited (Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt-street’
Sydney. Packed in amber bottles and the full
name blown thereon.


ICE! ICE! ICE!
The hot, stifling Summer days are approaching.
Have a Refrigerator, and keep Ice. It is a solid comfort, and doesn’t cost much.
Our Ice is manufactured from Distilled Water. ABSOLUTELY PURE; CLEAR and
as HARD AS CRYSTAL.
We despatch it freight paid to ANY RAILWAY STATION IN THE STATE, packed
in specially constructed cases. Waste during transit is very slight. Write for a quotation,
and full catalogue of our products.
Deliveries regular by special carts in Sydney and Suburbs.
THE N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., Ltd., SYDNEY.
“THE BEST WHEEL.”
BEST in construction,
BEST in ease of running.
BEST in strength of frame.
MASSEY-HARRIS
MASSEY-HARRIS
CYCLES
CYCLES
BEST in hill-climbing,
BEST in speed,
BEST in honest value.
IN OUR SPORTS DEPARTMENT
special attention is directed to
DUMBBELLS, WANDS, INDIAN CLUBS
For School Children.
We stock the Highest Grade of Goods for Every Sport.
*** We hold all Speed
Records, both Amateur
and Professional.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co., Ltd.
357 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches in every State.
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
BUY A
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel .
Hammerless Gun
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept in stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company,
Head Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 ios. to £is
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free
- McLEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St, Melbourne.
Ex-constable Cornelius Crowe pegs away
persistently at the “ Maladministration and Cor-
rupt Practices in the Vic. Police,” but he seems
to get no nearer to the realisation of his dream—
a Parliamentary Board of Inquiry into the
character of the police department. He laid his
old, old charges before Chief-Sec. Murray the
other month, and Murray practically referred the
matter to the men who don’t want to be inquired
into, saying “ Is there any need for further inves-
tigation ? ” And the police officers furnished the
Chief-Sec. with the expected reply. Nevertheless
it seems not improbable that Crowe will force cer-
tain specific charges under the notice of the Vic.
Assembly and obtain the Board his soul longeth
for. Vic. has gone 20 years without an official ex-
posure of its police force scandals. The exposure
of 20 years ago was instructive, but unproductive.
One constable at that time was found guilty of
having “ put up a job,” and the late Francis
Longmore, who presided over the Inquiry, re-
marked that he “ ought not to be in the service
another day.” The Board advised his dismissal.
But he was not dismissed. On the contrary he
rose high in the force.
The Bulletin Story Book (price ss.
post-free from The Bulletin office) has been
everywhere hailed as by far the best book of
Australian stories and sketches yet published.
All the best-known Australian writers, for the
last ten years, are represented; and, both for
interest and literary value, the selection is un-
surpassed in this country.*
FIRST PRIZE
8 -HOUR
ART UNION
Who Wants It?
£5OO ■for Is.
SECOND PRIZE, value .£lOO
THIRD „ „ £5O
FOURTH „ „ £25
FIFTH „ ~ £2O
and 150 other Valuable Prizes.
Someone’s Sure to Win.
Buy your Tickets Early.
TICKETS may be had from Agents in all
Country Towns, or direct from
ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary,
Eight-Hour Committee,
Trades Hall, Sydney.
SHARPSHOOTIHg
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/. nett. •
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
|F you wish to get good work and value
■ you should purchase W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative).
SOAPS dubbed Shaving
are rarely
Shaving Soaps.
In a Class by Themselves
The World’s Standard Shaving Soaps
Williams’ Barber’s Bar
and
Williams’ Shaving Stick
“BARBER’S BAR”
While the natural Ally
Of the Deft Artist
And his Trusty Blade
Is also the Ideal Soap
For Home Use
Fits your Birthday Mug
Once tried, never changed
“Won’t Dry on the Face.”
Send a Penny Stamp and we will post you Williams’
Changing Face Puzzle. Can you explain it?
J. B. WILLIAMS CO., 232 Clarence-st., Sydney.
1
1
the person who is not a millionaire, thereis ONLY
J- ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,”
situated at 50 KINO STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. W. ELLIS.
Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories:
By Albert Dorrington (“ Alba Dorion ”).
A handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated; price 4s. 6d. ; postage, 7d.
The Latest Star
f Dunlop
Vulcanised
Tyre
in the Cycle tyre
firmament is our
The Greatest Boon to
Cyclists since the
advent of the “ Dunlop”
Tyre in 1888.
No more parting of Rubber Cover from Fabric Casing—our new Tyre being
manufactured under immense pressure which converts Rubber and Fabric into
one. Ask your Agent to show you our Vulcanised Cover—the Tyre
that will prevent half the ordinary troubles—now associated with
Pneumatic Tyres.
No increase in price for Vulcanised Tyres.
' ' 4-
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co* of Australasia, Ltd.,
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane aud Christchurch.
The Big Tank.
“ F.M.” speaks to the point
The Big Tank of Australia has a surface area of not less
than 200,000 square miles. There are 62,000 square miles
in N.S.W. In Queensland and South Australia the areas
not yet surveyed are certainly greater, but 200,000 square
miles are enough for a generation, and a century, and
the making of a nation. The 39,680,000 acres in N.S.W.
represent a tank of tolerable dimensions. Its depth is
uncertain, but as it consists of Alpine ranges crumbled
down in an old, old time, and deposited as sandstone
rock, it is not likely to be a scaly layer ; nothing akin to
the coal seams, products of vegetable growth. What
would the Hawkesbury or the Blue Mountain sandstone
average if crumbled down and rolled out ?
There is also a mouth to the tank in the outcropping
rocks through which the rain constantly percolates. In
N.S.W. it is 40,000 square miles in area, in the Continent
proportionately more. Through that mouth flows, in
N.S.W., fully 50 per cent, of an average rainfall of 26in.
Reckoning stock consumption, evaporation, and outflow
of the rivers, the N.S.W. meteorological authorities could
never account for anything like 50 per cent, of the rain-
fall. All that cannot be accounted for in other ways goes
into the Big Tank. Is it possible, by any means, to get
any idea of the various capacities and possibilities of this
tank? It is not scientific attention which is required.
Science has made her investigations, applied her tests,
written her Q.E.D. The Big Tank of N.S.W. is mapped
out as plainly as any lake on the Continent. It is there ;
it is full now ; it has its constant sources of supply. Its
resources are also available. They have been tapped
by a thousand odd bores in three States, and
they draw off now near 600,000,000ga1. a day—more
than 20 times the full water supply of Sydney or Mel-
bourne ; within one-seventh of the quantity Colonel Hope
estimated as requisite to keep the Murray going below
Albury. N.S.W. draws through bores, fairly dotted over
her share of the Tank, 120,000,000 gals. That is four
times as much as Sydney wants, and six times as much
as she gets. What proportion it represents of the quan-
tity available it is difficult to estimate. The figures are
bewildering as those of star distances. Even to reckon
them is like starting to bottle off Prospect. We can no
more conceive the figures than we could stack the bottles.
Yet the Big Tank exists just as certainly as does Pros-
pect, and its waters might be as beneficially utilised.
But a vote of £200,000 a year to be devoted to purposes
of water conservation will not begin that work, nor is
the “statesmanship,” which permitted such a paltry
matter as the Sydney supply to drift into its present con-
dition, likely to tackle it successfully. The Big Tank,
moreover, is uncommonly well roofed. Over some few
millions (of acres, in New South Wales the roof surface
is loosely-compacted, red, black, or grey soil. Not a rock
for a hundred miles. The same sort of country stretches
away north-west, south-west, right west. It includes, as
has been said, 62,000 square miles, generally good and
largely very rich country. Millions of acres of it are as
fat as Nile mud or the Hunter River flats. Such is the
country nature made, and such is the country on which
man has sat weeping and wailing about drought,
devastation, and pending damnation. Such is the
country that sent its unemployed to aid in the
grinding of civilisation off the face of the veldt, and
to help in the spending of £200,000,000 over that good
work. If only £20,000,000 were spent in working our
Big Tank, what might it not accomplish for Australia
and for Empire.
But Empire does not move magnificently in that sort
of way. Victor Hugo estimated that the world he knew
spent 300,000,000 francs a year in firing salutes. We
cannot justly say that the world, or any part of it, has
become much wiser since that time. If N.S.W. desires to
open out her own share of the Big Tank she must do it
by her own resources, handled with her own statesman-
ship. The problem to be undertaken is as plain as it is
vast. The area of the tank roof is known, and the
character of the soil in its various districts. The cost of
winning the water is ascertained. It is near enough:
£2OOO for 1,000,000ga1. a day. The average cost and yield
of the bores work out that way. How much has it cost
to provide 30,000,000ga1. a day for Sydney or Melbourne ?
Artesian boring will compare very favorably with surface
storage when that question is answered.
But really the cost is the least difficulty in the matter.
The 800 bores in N.S.W. and Queensland have cost a
million-and-a-half. A million-and-a-half for a summer
Murray, flowing as desired about the central wilderness.
And, in addition, the actual Murray runs—to waste
mostly—through millions of acres of fat country, era-
versed by railway lines, and within 200 miles of the ©out
Australian capital! Use will when the
artesian area of one State, or of the Commonwealth, 1.
considered and legislated for as a separate whole, ine
land is there, the water beneath, the sunshine, which
might be all-blessing, above, and the men who hoia
that land must wet it with the water or
make room for others. One of the greatest
perhaps the very greatest—of the elements of individual
well-doing and "national prosperity in Australia, lies in
the Big Tank, atop of which, for more than a hundred
years now, Australian men have been carping as helpless
as pelicans in the wilderness, like the Arabs who prowl
about the ruined aqueducts and jungle-grown irrigation
farms of old Assyrian kings. .
But the work can’t be done if it is to stop short when-
ever Coiien in London doesn’t see his way to supply
another big loan, to lag whenever Coiien of London is
reticent with the money, or to be hung up for a few years
every now and then till Cohen in London gets his second
wind, or to be dropped and the half-finished works left to
fall into decay when Coiien in London turns off the finan-
cial tap. Australia must do it out of its own revenues if
it is to be well done, or done at all.
“Veteran” : Even if S’Langdon Bony thon
had succeeded in extracting an explanation about
those 10 alleged drill-instructors sent from N.S.W.
to S. Australia, he wouldn’t be possessed of the
information that the so-called drill-instructor is a
mere sham, who has at most two hours’ drill-
instructing a week, all the rest of his time being
devoted to quill-driving for his amateur colonel,
and making out the reports and returns which
that exalted personage signs without in the least
understanding them. There is an old story about
an Australian cavalry regiment which was to have
its first lot of officers chosen by examination. The
drill-instructor went round to the candidates and
offered to sell to each all the answers for £lO.
Most of them paid up. The drill-sergeant, in
fact, is the real commander of an Australian regi*
ment, the colonel being merely an ornamental
figurehead who does the log-rolling and political
and social part of the business. The Drayton
Grange horror ought to open the eyes of the Aus-
tralian people to the sort of fraud that is being
put upon them by the “Barracks Push, ’’ which
practically furnished, in conjunction with its
social connections, the whole of the “colonels”
and “captains” on board. Not one of them,
according to the sworn evidence of themselves,
the surgeons, and the ship’s officers, made the
slightest attempt either to keep the lower decks
clear for ventilation, to make the men keep them-
selves and their quarters clean, to give the men
exercise, or provide room for the sick —all which
things lay within their duty. If the drill-ser-
geant was there he was quartered on one of the
lower decks, and knew better than to offend the
men who were only separated from him by a can-
vas partition, by teaching officers, who had neither
the will nor the nerve to protect him, what they
ought to do. Drill is a mechanical business, and
the man who teaches it is very useful in his way,
but when an emergency like that on the Drayton
Grange arises, brains are wanted, and the drill-
sergeant is not paid for brains. Drill and fighting
are not the whole of soldiering.
Perhaps the nearest approach to human happi-
ness is the soothing sensation which pervades a woman’s
breast when she feels that the triumph of her dressmaker
cannot fail to arouse the jealousy of her dearest friends.
And, perhaps, there ,is no earthly power that can create
this ecstacy so easily as the gentle embraces of - the P.l>.
corset. The lucky inventor of that beautifier was, as
everybody knows, made a Knight of the Legion of Honor,
by the King of the Belgians. And the genial Mr.
Borsdorff, of Melbourne and Sydney, has so advanced the
mission of the P.D. in this country, that the enduring
gratitude of every Australian heart is due to him.*


r
/
m
m
yu
■
%
\
\
O
<r
/air Palmist.) fyou. ate a. gyte&t CtuzaAot/e’ &77i&/c&2>
U /t/s " S
n£ ; c7U>ar c/o- ifau Honour /hat ?
SHE /f/ain on
HE ' -ufa/t, c/'mutP confer. <zf>a77iH&&
tuwn/p cfjfyd&MfymearpM evtydy.
We present Gratis and Postage Paid a Handsome Cloth-bound ALBUM, made specially to contain Photographs, as packed with our GUINEA
GOLD CIGARETTES, to anyone sending us 100 of these pictures. We issue now the most extraordinary and unique range of Photos, ever given
to the Public.
The subjects have been collected with great difficulty, and represent a Gallery of extreme interest and of great educational value.
The Free Presentation will only last for a short period, but now and after the closing of the Gratis Distribution these Albums can be obtained
Irmn any ToW.tmUt, or from us direr, (Post Ftm, for 1. 6d OGDEN’S, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Bananaland—a country which pays a third
of its revenue, or \\ millions, in interest, which
raises half a million deficit on the top of this, and
only keeps itself afloat by spending tons of bor-
rowed money per annum—is just about to raise a
loan of a couple of millions in London. In
order to spur on the halting Philpite Cabinet
to further action, a Progress Association at N.
Bundaberg (a typical hamlet of the Kyabram
type) is vigorously stirring up the Queensland
Ministry to float a further loan of three millions,
for irrigation purposes. This modest demand
(£6 per head for all Queensland), if acceeded to,
would probably result in a crop of wholesale
repudiations of liability on the part of local irriga-
tion trusts ; also in a wild howl for the dismissal
of two-thirds of the public servants of the State,
by way of squaring things, and finally, in a fresh
clamor for a fresh loan of ten millions—by way of
setting the country up again.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N. S. Wales: Sayers,
Allport and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
The last will and execration of a bitterly
Vindictive agriculturist, formerly of Boggy
Creek (Vic.), was recently before the courts. The
old man, in his will, instructed that his daughter
Gladys was to have the farmhouse for her residence
all the days of her life, or until she married. His
son George was to hustle for himself, in his own
house, but was not to be denied casual accommo-
dation by Gladys if he required it. Son John was
apparently on the same basis as son George.
Apart from the right of domicile at the house,
these three were to share the property equally,
But on his son Francis Thomas the old man of
Boggy Creek laid his extra-special, boiling-hot
curse, and specified thg,t if he or his wife, son,
daughter, executor or assign received shelter or a
crust at the old farmhouse, the person giving the
said sustenance to Thomas should forfeit all
interest in the property. Later, the old man
took objection to son John also, and cast
him forth to be with Thomas in outer darkness,
though he wasn’t cast out so definitely as Thomas.
Then the ancient settler died in the odour of
animosity, and it was discovered that the farm
was only a village-settlement lease, which reverted
to the State at his death, the State paying for im-
provements. The Court decided that the money
thus received should be divided between George
and Gladys, but all the pleasant dreams of Thomas
coming back to the old home in rags, and having
the old family dog sooled on to him, fall through.
It must be a terrible thing to keep your gun for
years loaded to the muzzle with a big curse, and
then, when the psychological moment comes, to
find that it isn’t your gun after all, and that you
can’t fire it.
| RAMEY’S MEDIC A TOR
For the Treatment of Catarrh. Hay tever,
Bronchitis, Influenza, Catarrhal
Deafness, etc.
Medlcator, with complete treat-
ment, only 101-, post free.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY
229.231 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE.
Publications.
N€W SON 6
\om
&
«rfl
iaoiw
7
__ 1
S
fi
Author of
"Am* the Ball'
THE MI'u Coat a fmi'lritAn THE News to Mother
Price 2Jmf
Allan & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Melbourne
Read the Words
If You Please, Miss, Give Me Heaven.
“ Papa, I’m so sad and lonely,”
Sobbed a tearful little child ;
““Since dear mamma’s gone to Heaven,
Papa, darling, You’ve not smiled.
I will speak to her and tell her
That we want her to come home;
Just you listen, and I’ll call her
Through the telephone :
Chorus—
“lf you please, Miss, give me Heaven —for my Mamma’s
there;
You can find her with the angels on the golden stair.
She’ll be glad it’s me who’s speaking—call her, won’t you,
please,
For I want to surely tell her we’re so lonely here.”
When the girl received this message,
Coming o’er the telephone,
How her heart thrilled in that moment,
And the wires seemed to moan ;
“ I will answer, just to please her :
‘ Yes, dear heart, I’ll soon come home.’ ”
“ Kiss me, Mamma, kiss your darling,
Through the telephone.”
Chorus— “ If you please, Miss,” etc.
(6
XSSNmOD SZZ-9LZ
PROP., Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
TOOTK-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head aches & all Nerve
Paiiiß removed by HUNTER'S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“As ft specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I have
used it successfully for years "—Prof, W. Wilson, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDELL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, &c.
Of all Stores.
35 YEARS PROVEN EFFICACY.
TA*e
**
-
V.V
\NSEED
0
■■JiaJS CoifiP° hnb
inS ee
OF ACC CHEAUSTS
throughoutGREATBRIMIN a the COLONIES
V*-
Catharucuh Pius iwiyityuiw*
js£ COACULI N E •
Transparent Cement for au ßroken Articles
GANT YOU BREATHE
freely? Have you to sit up in bed gasping for
breath? If so, you are only one of a countless
number whose lives are made a burden to them by
ASTHMA.
If you wish to rest again at night, and breathe
with head erect by day, send ss. to NEWHAM
WATERWOETH, Edward-st., Brisbane,
who will forward pose free a sample bottle of a
New Remedy for Asthma, a few doses of which
will prove to you that life is still worth living.
I CURE
VARICOCELE,
PREVENT PARALYSIS,
And Restore the
NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Every man who has Varicocele recognises,
by evidences which are unmistakable, that
he is physically and mentally below par. It
is impossible that the self-generated toxins,
formed in the sluggish blocd currents of
neglected Varicocele, should be absorbed
into nerve matter without producing morbid
conditions that affect the entire organism.
Varicocele is unquestionably the cause
of thousands of business and social failures,
because it strikes at the very seat and centre
of physical and mental power —the nervous
system.
My treatment not only cures the Vari-
cocele, but gives back strength of body
and brain. It gives to a man the reserve
power that is the prerequisite of all success.
I seek cases where all else has failed.
Young, middle=aged, and old men can
recover the same degree of health,
strength, and energy experienced in
former years by consulting
PROFESSOR READ,
who has restored thousands of sufferers to
vigorous health.
DO ANY OF THE FOLLOWING
SYMPTOMS OR CLASS OF SYMP-
TOMS MEET YOUR CONDITION:—
Do you feel nervous debilitated, fretful, tin id,
and lack the power of will and action? Are you
subject to loss of memory, feel listless, moping, unfit
for business or pleasure, and subject to fits of
melancholy ? Are your kidneys, stomach, urinary
organs, liver or blood in a disordered condition?
Have you lost confidence in yourself and energy for
business pursuits? Are you subject to restless
nights, broken sleep, dreams, palpitation of the
heart, confusion of ideas, aversion to society, dim-
ness of sight, pimples on the face and back, and other
desponding symptoms?
If you are afflicted, why further neglect
your health when by a single consultation
(which costs nothing) you can be placed on
the way to health, strength, and vigor?
All correspondence held sacred. A speedy
and perfect life cure is guaranteed in all
cases I undertake, where doubt exists the
sufferer is frankly informed.
I CANNOT TELL YOU ALL
I desire in this announcement, therefore I
invite every man who is interested to write
me fully and freely, describing his case, and
I will advise him the best course to pursue.
My new book, which 1 send free
(six stamps to cover postage should be en-
closed), describes in detail my special
methods of curing the diseases to
which 1 limit my practice.
No promises made that age, integrity, and
long experience do not justify. o'!
Address: Prof. H. READ,
165 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE


“Sufferer from
Indigestion ”
‘ Anything I ate caused me great
pain and distress ”
We often find that deranged digestion is
no more and no less than an indication of
low vitality. Enrich the blood with the
Ju-operties which renew the vital spark of
ife, and digestion will respond to the treat-
ment and become in a normal state again.
These facts speak for themselves :
“ 121, Great George’s Street,
“ Wigan, Lancashire, England,
“ December 31st, 1900.
“Dear Sirs,—For the past four years I
have been a great sufferer from indigestion,
and daring that time have tried many
different remedies, but failed to find any-
thing that suited my condition. I suffered
from a poor appetite, and anything I ate,
no matter how simple, would not digest,
and caused me great pain and distress.
My condition got worse, and I became
seriously ill. My doctor advised me to take
your Scott’s Emulsion, and the same evening
he did so I read a testimonial in a
Manchester paper from a graduated male
nurse, s’ating bis experience with Scott’s
Emulsion, and the many cases in which he
W. MANTLE.
(From a photograph.)
had found it had given good results. This
determined me to give the preparation a
trial, and before I had taken the contents of
one bottle I was so well satisfied with the
results that I made up my mind to give it a
fair test. I have found so much benefit
from the continued use of Scott’s Emulsion
that I now have a new relish for food, and
no longer feel any distress after my meals.
I am perfectly free from all the distressed
feelings I experienced before taking the
Emulsion, and can eat anything without
the least sign of deranging my digestion.—
Yours very truly, (Signed) W. Mantle.”
There are Scott’s Emulsion
which have a direct action upon the
digestive system.. Hypophosphites of lime
and soda, for instance, stimulate the
appetite and assist digestion in many ways,
while cod-liver oil has a beneficial effect
upon the entire alimentary canal. The
most important work of Scott’s Emulsion
in the system, however, is in restoring
vitality, and giving that resistive foroe to
life which represents vigour and health. We
cannot say that Scott’s Emulsion will cure
a chronic case of dyspepsia, but we do know
that it is beneficial to the entire digestive
system, as is shown clearly in the case
which we have placed before you.
The consumptive, and all other anaemic
persons, find Scott’s Emulsion of great
advantage in giving them strength to over-
come the wasting conditions of the system.
When the blood is depleted, the whole
organism is reduced to a state of low vitality,
and there is no remedy that can be employed
that will be as effectual as Scott’s Emulsion.
Babies and children who do not thrive,
derive health and strength from its use.
It is a mistake to think that Scott’s
Emulsion is like other forms of cod-liver
oil. Scott’s Emulsion is palatable, and does
not derange digestion. If you will be care-
ful to purchase only the genuine preparation
and make a trial of it, you will soon learn
its superiority.
You can obtain a sample of Scott’s Emulsion
by sending fourpence to Scott & Bowne, Ltd.,
483 Kent-street, Sydney, and mentioning this
paper. All chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
“ Bells at Sunset.”
This charming 1 composition for the Piano by
W S. RQCKSTRO, is now in stock, andean >e
supplied by all Music Dealers.
W. PAXTON & CO., Publishers,
London, Melbourne.
The DAISY SERIES of Pianoforte Albums, The most
popular books for young play ers ever published,
the BULLETIN STORY BOOK i
By Sixty Bwaotin writers, Cloth, §5O pages •
price, is, 6'd.; postage, Od.
sot* BismißOTmt agbkts ;
EDWARDS, DDNLQP & Go., Ltd,, Sydney and Brisbane
“ Nina Jeane ” has a theory and expresses
it very plainly:—
The recent upheaval in Sydney of the W.C.T.U. and
Consul Orlando Baker did not throw much light on the
lady beer-puller and other women-workers. The W.C.T.U.
and Orlando Baker declared that the barmaid’s occupa-
tion was conducive to the demoralisation of the women
engaged therein. In support of this sweeping statement
they produced no evidence, quoted no reliable statistics,
and asked that their unsupported statement be taken as
sufficient. To prove that the barmaid class contains a
larger proportion of crooked girls than any other occu-
pation was obviously impossible. Coghlan reckons im-
morality mostly by the illegitimate births, which is no guide
to the extent of the immorality of any particularclass. And
it is generally arather decent girl that brings her baby into
the world and struggles along to support it; the really
immoral women is too worldly-wise. Speaking from
personal knowledge the most dangerous class of feminine
work is that of the chambermaid. The lady who serves
out beer is usually in the company of more than one man,
and there’s safety in numbers. Also, the lady who ladles
out the fermented wet is further protected by a high,
wide counter which has a decidedly moral and restraining
influence. But the poor chambermaid is continually
being surprised in lonely bedrooms by wicked male
citizens who are apparently always on the alert for the
purpose. If the W.C.T.U. really wants to prevent a few
thousand brands being thrown to the burning annually
let it agitate for the abolition of the chambermaid from
the list of female duties, and it will have deprived
the male boarder of his happiest hunting-ground.
When I kept a boarding-house, and had a young and
pretty chambermaid, it was remarkable, whenever
bald gents, with bunches of muscle on their jaws, came
“ to look at the apartments ” (they never came to see about
board and lodging) how their wicked old faces lit-up
when they found a bedroom in some remote corner at the
top of the house. If it was also down a long side passage,
and lit with only a skylight, they would offer to pay five
shillings per week extra to make sure of it. It was the
sudden slump in the value of those remote bedrooms
when a gaunt, wizened female of 52 became chamber-
maid, vice Grace, resigned to take a trip to somewhere or
other, that revealed the dangers of the position. If Mr.
Orlando Baker would only take up bachelor quarters in a
top-side room for a fortnight he would probably be ready
to hold forth in every Seotchbyterian kirk on the urgent
necessity of legislation to provide that no chambermaid
shall be less than 72 years of age, and ugly to boot.
Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address.—
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-street
or King-street, Sydney.*
“ Hermes ” on some kinds of women :
Someone was recently bewailing, in a daily paper, the
“frightful epidemic” of judicial separation which is
sweeping over N.S.W., and at the end of his moan he
plaintively inquired could nothing be done to check it.
I know something that could be done. During the last
six months three newly-married couples have come to
live at our boarding-house, and of these the first two
brides now come down to breakfast with their hair in
curling-pins, and one already makes a practice of going
about all the morning with half-an-inch of underwear
showing between the bottom of her blouse and the top
of her skirt. The last comer does none of these things as
yet, and is still a dainty little woman with brown eyes
and hair, who wears soft little billows of chiffon about
her neck and bosom. But this is how she talks : “ I’ve
only been married six weeks, but I know all about men—
my word ! I find they have an insatiable habit of telling
their wives what a devil of a fellow I was ‘ before I met
you, my dear ! ’ And you can make up your mind that
he’ll be the same devil of a fellow again after the newness
has worn off—if you’ll let him. But I’ll take all sorts of
care Jack never gets the chanee. If any of these cats of
women you meet nowadays were to some chasing round
Jack, making eyes at him, I’d kill them stone dead—yes,
stone dead, if I swung for It.” Then she glares
round the table at the women and looks brightly
at the men, who admire the sparkle in her eyes,
while Jack matters something incoherently, and says
he’ll go outside and have a smoke, And I can see
that this sort of talk, which wo get at every meal in some
form or another, is getting on Jack's nerves, and there is
a gleam of triumph in the eyes of the golden--haired
girl who sits at the other end and glances at Jack through
the trends of the big palm in the middle o,f the table.
And when Jack has gone out to smoke, the produce-man,
who sits at the middle of the table, tells Mrs, Jack; how
mush he admires her spirit, poth these women will be
going- about with hair in pins and down-at-heel slippers
in some hoarding-house by-and-bye, and they won’t even
he string about respectably—the conventional kind of re*
epeetability. And when a woman has her clothes sticking
Cut between her blouse and her- skirt, and is “ living in
Sin w as well, it is almost as bad as if she wore a large
grease-mark Oft her-frock and lived with her own husband.
The Melb. penny R.C. organ, The
Tribune, publishes this under the heading
“Little Stories'for Little People ! ,T
The Governor, in a rage, paused to think what kind
of death he could inflict on the saint. Iron hooks, the
rack, and other such instruments of torture seemed far
too gentle in his cruel eyes. At last he said to the
executioners—
“ Take him, and let him see and desire death, without
being able to obtain it. Out off his limbs joint by joint,
and this so slowly that the wretch may know what it is to
abandon the gods of his ancestors for an unknown
deity.”
The executioners dragged Arcadius to the place where
many other victims had already suffered.
Here the martyr lifts up his eyes to heaven, and
implores strength from above ; then stretches out his
neck, expecting to have his head cut off; but the
executioner bade him hold out his hand, and, joint after
joint, chopped off his fingers, arms, and shoulders. Lay-
ing the saint afterwards on his back, he, in the same
barbarous manner, cut off his toes, feet, legs and thighs.
.... After so many martyrdoms, his body lay a mere
trunk, weltering in its own blood.
Ugh ! nice reading for little people 1
Broken Hill is a good enough place for
anybody but a mining boss or a publican to go
mad in ; and yet 17 in one week is a big record.
Seventeen people deemed to be insane were pre-
sented to the Bench during a recent week. Five
went down to the asylum ; 11 were discharged.
At whose initiative were all these arrests made ?
A little initiative of that sort throughout the bush
would lead to queer results. There are many
hundreds very properly deemed insane, and yet
perfectly safe. Drought probably drove a few of
them in, like the birds and the beasts, and
“somebody” hadn’t sense enough "to leave ’em
alone. The mischief, not very well understood
amongst responsible people, is, that once put
“inside,” such people often quickly become
dangerously mad, and remain horrors to them-
selves and their surroundings, and permanent
charges on the States.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA'
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
II
**UfTHA*Arf
w* •ft
/A-
*>,
! > ' ss
</
1 '/' !>/.
s,
A
Croasine Blacking
Is the best dressing made for all bright finished leathers.
It is easily applied with a cloth, and produces a polish that is unequaled for brilliance
and permanence. Men, women, and children who use “ Crozme ” once want “ Crozine ”
always, as it is the most satisfactory waterproof dressing made for all varieties of shoes.
Sold almost everywhere. Made and guaranteed only by
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS, Boston, Mass,, U. S, A'
S. FREEMAN * SONS L!!s|liE
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHOS BAKING POWDER.
FREEMANS PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR,
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WTNTABD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Hotelkeepers, Make Your Own
PS
CRATED WATERS.
THE “AUSTRAL” yERATED WATER MACHINE:
" occupies only Four Feet square, will produce 160 dozen
BOTTLES per day of Finest Waters (Lemonade, Ginger
Ale, Sodawater, &c.) at a COST BELOW FOURPENCE
PER DOZEN. These machines are now working in all the
Australian States, New Zealand, ind South Africa.
May be Purohased on the Hire System.
Write for Prices and Particulars
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers —
ECKERSLEY AND SONS
214-216 Queen Street, Melbourne.
0-0013
EAIR FOR ALL!
*
iLu Chemists.
Holland’s SVSarvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price —35., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
(iST For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
SS" For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR, It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. fid.; postage, 9d. extra.
$> e
v#
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Piltrstreet, Sydney.
*3B
%
¥
CONSULT
HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
The Bushman and the Crow.
‘‘l ain’t a harrl man, strike me blind !” the
Bushman said to me ;
“ I love the dumb beasts, every kind wot walks in
land and sea ;
It’s maybe—l’ve been thinking mate — because I
love them so
That in my heart I hold the hate o’ hell against
the crow.
“See here: when drought and dry wind bring
King Death upon the track,
He sneaks behind, on smooth black wing—wi’
heart three times as black ;
And little does the d- n wretch care which
beast or where it dies,
So long’s his hungry beak may tear at offal,
heart, and eyes !
“White-livered crawler at the best, he hops
among the dirt,
And keeps a careful distance, lest his d—— d black
hide get hurt;
He’ll dance around some poor bogged thing and
pick its glaring eyes,
And if it moves he’ll take to wing—afraid the
poor wretch rise !
“ He sits upon the ringbarked limb when you and
me goes by ;
Hark to that blarsted ‘Kawr!’ That’s him!
Daren’t look you in the eye !
You don’t know when your kids, Jim Brown,
might miss the school-house track—
My God ! — with him to mark them down ! —the
MURDERING (BLANK) IN BLACK ! !
“ I understan’ that droughts may come for reasons
various;
There’s whips o’ sinners humpin’ drum might
bring such things on us,
I kin conceive how floods might be sent westward
far and wide
To let us poor blamed rubbish see we’ve small
excuse for pride,—
“ But this black devil—let me curse ! the name’s
too mild for him
That tears the poor lambs, throbbing warm, before
their eyes grow dim !
Well, God had many things to make—and how
was He to know ?
But, Jim, He made His one mistake the time He
made the crow ! ”
JIM BROWN.


Colonel Stuart, who was Acting-Command-
ant of the S.A. forces for several years during the
absence of Brigadier-General Gordon, has not
been provided with a position by General Hutton,
and it is believed that an attempt will be made to
retrench him. He was once a coach-painter, but
he went to Germany at his own expense and
attended the manoeuvres there and is a thoroughly
qualified officer. The Hutton’s aristocratic staff,
however, probably thinks he has still the smell of
turpentine about him.
“ Veteran ”: General Hutton doesn’t seem
to know his own mind. Recently he removed
Colonel Templeton from the charge of the Vic-
torian rifle clubs, partly, it was said, by way of
retrenchment, and partly because Templeton was
over the regulation age-limit. But then the posi-
tion was given with a good fat salary (Templeton’s
post had been honorary) to a Major who had just
been retired from the N.S.W. staff because he also
was over age. There is a very peculiar odor about
the whole transaction.
About the fate of certain officers of the
Bush veldt Carbineers, an old Bulletin contribu-
tor, now representing an English paper at
Pretoria, writes:
Pretoria was the headquarters of the Bushveldt Carbi-
neers, who were mostly Australians. I have met
about a hundred of them, and with one accord they
denied the blood-guiltiness of Morant and Ilandcock.
They declared the stories, current and printed, con-
cerning those officers, either gross exaggerations
or cruel inventions. What had been done by
them was strictly in accordance with instructions, and
if they deserved death for their actions, at least a
thousand others should have been shot in gloomy Pretoria
gaol. The courts-martial extended over three weeks,
yet the published evidence occupies but a few columns.
I have seen the original evidence and compared it
with the scant extracts, and was amazed at the careful
emasculation of the full report. In most essential points
the facts were perverted, and everything which told in
favor of the men was carefully excluded. Morant, no doubt,
was maddened by the mutilation of his personal friend,
Captain Hunt, but even then he did not exceed orders. As
for Handcock—a simple-minded, uneducated fellow
—the evidence would acquit him in any civil
court in the world, and all the Bushveldt Carbi-
neers I interviewed are unanimous as to his absolute
innocence. The printed evidence regarding Handcock
is simply ridiculous and infamously misleading,
to his friends and to all Australians. I have made full
and careful inquiries, and these demand that something
should be done to remove the stigma cast upon'Austra-
lians. The true story will stagger Australia, and, as a
patriotic Australian, I hope it will come out.
N.Z. Loan and M.A. Co. Ltd. reports for week
ended Sept. 6th that wool continues firm and unchanged,
the demand being chiefly for good combing merinos. Short
and faulty wools hard to place. Some inquiry for cross-
breds. Labor troubles are interfering with the despatch
of clips to Sydney and the article is arriving in very small
quantities. Next sales on 17th and 18th September.
Sheepskin catalogues large, but almost wholly of defec-
tive station skins. Inquiry strong, though coarse cross-
breds are somewhat weaker. A slight improvement was
noted in marsupials, bears frequently bringing Jd. per
skin higher. The supply of ’possums is distinctly weak,
and all medium and good qualities show an improvement,
the only exception being that Queeensland sorts are all
rather neglected. Hides seemed to have been taken from
starved stock, and the few choice samples available were
snapped up at late rales. Tallow slipped down some
more, and there being no shipping inquiry, prime mixed
is worth only £2B 55., which is from ss. to 10s. lower than
last sale. Choice bones and glue-stock sold well, also
horns, but horse-hair slumped considerably. Breadstuffs
had a quiet week, though prices remained steady. The
late rains have brightened the outlook considerably, and
1902-3 crop promises to give a yield and quality equal to
any previous record. Quotations, 4s. lOd. to 4s. lid. per
bushel for prime milling samples.*
FREE!
Send your name and
address to—
Chamberlain Medicine Co.
64 Elizabeth St., Sydney
(A Post Card will do).
and they will forward you a
Free Sample of
Chamberlain’s
Stomach and
Liver Tablets
JUST WHAT YOU NEED.
tK vyefi&MK pvws\c
THEN STOHkG*
, RE6VJYATE THE. UNp^4^
ye
C\\\l
m
m
■
MJVI> S
1
BETTER THAN PILLS.
The question has been asked : “In what
way are Chamberlain’s Stomach and
Liver Tablets superior to pills?” Our
answer is—they are easier and more pleasant
to take, more gentle and kind in their action
and more reliable, as they can always be
depended upon. Then they cleanse and
invigorate the stomach and leave the bowels
in a; natural condition, while pills are more
harsh in effect and their use is often followed
by constipation. Try and be convinced.
NOTE.—If not able to obtain Chamber-
lain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets locally,
a package will be sent, post paid, upon
receipt of 1/6, or six packets for 8/-, by
addressing Chamberlain Medicine Co., 64
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. 1 1 9
fltrAPfc aj • a shop-window in Oxford-
ticketed I *l ey ’ ?■ 8aw ’ nicel y arranged and
Kino- Hh«, cu shion, some alleged remains of
Thefp Sr rd s feaa M° the P°°* of London,
beaming on . Wlfc i* Edward’s countenance
of nio-nJL+f n 6a h° x of chocolates, packet
w l labelled “madeby British labor ”),
Stn ) k w baCC<? j and a red ’ white, and blue
i ’ otthe pride of the cushion was a piece of
pudding, which looked very much like a
, chew , of tobacco. Wonder if Ed-
. , , knows what strange uses his charitable
victuals have come to.
The truth about the Bushveldt Carbineers
and certain Australian scapegoats. Read “ Bush-
man and Buccaneer ” (embodying all the bush and
other verses of ‘The Breaker,’’ Harry Morant,
with a memoir of his life), by Frank Renar. Price
on ® shilling. Wholesale from Edwards, Dunlop
a 2r , ' detail all booksellers and Bulletin
office (post free Is. Id.)
amusements.
T 'cYi * . T HEA T R E, SYDNEY.
bole Proprietor and Manager-Ms. Harry Rickards.
PAUL CINQUEVALLI.
MR. and MRS. SIDNEY DREW.
SPRY, THE HARVEY BOYS, LES. WARTON
DIAMOND DUO, WALKER and MAY, THE NEW
BIOGRAPH, &c., &c.
Prices as Usual. Plan at
MATINEES SATURDAY and WEDNESDAY.
ICKARDS’
HOUSE,
NEW OPERA
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS
EVERY EVENING, at 8 pm
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p m.
First Appearance of EUGEN SANDOW
7 THE FLORENZS 7
FLORRIE CALLIMORE. ADA DELROY
Professor FRED. HARCOURT. RAY JONES
SAM HOLDSWORTH.
Prices 35., 2s. 6d„ 2s is. Early Doors and Booked
Seats 6d. Extra. Plan at Allan’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE
cur Lessee ,'' •• Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson
Bus. Manager, James Hendy. Treas., Julius Grant
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, headed bv Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN
IMMENSE SUCCESS of
A WOMAN OF PLEASURE.
The Greatest Dramatic Production ever seen in the
Southern Hemisphere.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
DRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE. "
1 Sole Lessee and Director, Mr. George Musgrove
Manager .. .. Mr. T. P. Hudson.
CONTINUED SENSATIONAL SUCCESS of
Mr. GEO. MUSGROVE’S NEW ENGLISH COMEDY CO.,
including Miss NELLIE STEWART, in
3VE ICE .A. 3XT D 3VE E UNT.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Wednesday Matinees.
H E ?T MAJESTY'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Under the Direction of Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
SATURDAY", SEPT. 13, Mr. J. 0. Williamson will
present, for the first time, to Melbourne playgoers
William Gillett’s Intensely Interesting Realisation of
Sir A. Conan Doyle’s famous creation,
SHERLOCK HOLMES.
Prices as Usual. 156
Box Plan at Allan’s,
DIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
« Lessee and Manager. .. William F. Ilawtrey.
Business Manager .. Leonard Davis.
THE HAWTREY COMEDY CO. has scored anothei
Magnificent Success in the production of the Funniesl
Farcical Comedy yet seen in Melbourne.
„ THE LADY OF OSTEND
Received Nightly with roars of uncontrollable laughter
Preceded at 8 o’clock every evening by the pretty and
popular playlet COUNSEL’S OPINION.
Popular Prices 35., 25., Is. Matinee every Wednesday
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’ and The Grand.
R. BENTLEY YOUNG, Representative.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY
tt , LeS fu e c ," n . "• '• Air. J- 0. Williamson.
Under the Sole Direction of Mr. George Musgrove
Manager .. .. Mr. T. P. Hudson.
UNQUESTIONABLE & EMPHATIC SUCCESS of
Mr. CEO. MUSCROVE’S NEW COMIC OPERA CO. ir
A CHINESE HONEYMOON,
Pioduced on a scale of Magnificence Unsurpassed by am
other Management in the world.
USUAL. Plan at Nicholson’s.
MATINEES EVERY WEDNESDAY 2 p,m.
YCEUM
Lessee
. Sub Lessee
THEATRE, SYDNEY
.. .. Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Bland Holt.
SPLENDID SUCCESS of BLAND HOLT’S Australian
Melodrama,
RIDIN6 TO WIN,
Interpreted by the Favorite Dramatic Combination.
POPULAR PRICES—3s,, 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
SOLE LESSEE .. .. Mr. JOHN F. SHERIDAN,
Manager Mr. Frank Weathersby.
THE SHERIDAN SEASON.
SIXTH WEEK and CONTINUED SUCCESS
of
THE OPERATICAL COMEDY,
THE LADY SLAVEY.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY at 2.30.
“Do You Know Mrs. Goldstein ? ”
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. 6d., and Is. Box Plan at
Nicholson’s. Day Sale, Early Doors Only (6d. Extra to
All Parts), at White Rose Confectionery, corner of Royal
Arcade and Pitt Streets ; also Box Plan after 5 o’clock
week days and 1 o’clock Saturdays.
PALACE T H E ATR E, SYDNEY.
■ Lessees .. .. Messrs. LEE and RIAL.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON
Every Evening, at 7.45. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
LAST 2 NIGHTS and FAREWELL PERFORMANCES of
SA.KT TO "ST.
SAT. NEXT, SEPT. 13, THE BELLE OF NEW YORK,
by Mr. Williamson’s MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Nicholson and 00.
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
Latest
Models'
£2.10 t0£5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims,
Free Wheels, Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any Port in Australasia.
I TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogue and Special Offer
Using 2id. Stamp. Dept 3.8 D
Mead Cycle Ct '^l°'
Paringa, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), reconstructed
barely five months ago, likely to require a fresh corpse-
reviver soon. Out of £40,000 new funds raised, by the
first call of Is. a share only £6300 was left after liquidat-
ing old liabilities. Shaft now down trifle over 1000 ft.,
and is to go 300 ft. more before any driving is to be
done to prove—the utter worthlessness of the pro-
perty. This work is not expected to be complete till
February. Admitted now that lode so far discovered is
valueless— ergo, it is not the Brown Hill lode. Directors
are to adopt the Elmore oil treatment —when they find
some ore.
• * * *
Queensland Menzies (W.A.) : At 446 ft. level,
eastern reef averages 2ft. wide worth 30dwts., and wes t-
ern Bft. wide of high grade. Estimated ore reserves
above this level 12,000 tons. Present 10 head of light
stampers treat 350 tons monthly, and additional 5 heads
of 10001 b. stamps have been ordered, and should easily
double output. Adjoining Crusoe mill has been tempor-
arily hired so that, in future, monthly output will reach
500 tons. Latest result 435 tons for 9120 z. Better divs.
in sight.
* • * *
The Goodenough, Menzies (W.A.), now held
under option by Boulder No. 1 Co., has had a final clean-
up before being handed to the co. Result reads, 6500 z.
from 312 tons, making a total of 18470 z. from 679 tons
since April. If the co. can come within cooee of such
results working on a big scale, Boulder No. 1 shares
should be a tempting purchase.
*•• • *
The buyers of the Standard litter of wild cats in
W.A., the New Century Trust, have floated a new co. to
take over the felines. Co. has 500,000 shares of 10s. each,
with a 2s. 6d. assessment. Paddington Consols is to be
launched on its own. It is insanity or ignorance which
suggests that it can be made to pay on the proposed
capital. The other derelicts, none of which are gold-pro-
ducing, will be miserable weaklings for the New Standard
Go. to nurse. Ex-Gov. Jerry Smith is one of the nurses.
* * * *
Menzies, Alpha (W.A.), during year ended
April 30th, made an alleged profit of £799. This feat was
achieved by debiting £3526 spent on mine development
to capital account; otherwise by treating depletedstopes
and other holes in the ground as assets. This system of
finance is a perfect godsend to the State, as it enables the
Treasurer to scoop in profit tax on purely mythical pro-
fits. The Treasurer is now prosecuting several co.s who
have been sending him amended balance-sheets showing
losses instead of the faked ones issued to bamboozle
scrippers.
* * • •
Capt. Parkes has quitted the Oroya (W.A.), and
Hollow, of the Brown Hill, is to boss both properties.
Mine will probably be surrounded by barbed wire
entanglements like the Brown Hill, and a bull pup sooled
on to “speering” visitors. Parkes pulled co. through
many difficulties, and mined and treated 50,000 tons of
Bdwt. ore at a cost of 17s. a ton. Parkes retires with the
reputation of having ploughed a straight furrow.
• • * *
Yankee Loring, who recently took charge of
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.), has reduced hands from 700 to 400
without reducing output. Transformation has been
effected by increased use of machines and by firing out a
lot of useless surface hands and alleged departmental
bosses. Unfortunately mine is not looking too well and
developments are backward owing to blanks met with.
* m * *
Associated Northern (W.A.), has shipped 700
tons of ore to smelters. As some of this assays up t 0.12
and 13oz. to the ton, a big jump in the monthly returns
will eventuate when the yield is published. Co. still
working very rich ore, but exploration confined chiefly to
the rich chute, outside of which mine is practically barren.
Quite possible another div. may soon be declared.
* « * *
Great Fihgall Consols (W.A.) costs work out as
follows Mining and reduction, 255. 3d. ; development,
11s. ; capital account, 245. 4d. The last two items are
temporarily very high, owing to sinking new main shaft,
and erecting machinery. Eventually total costs should
not exceed 355., against ore worth £5 6s. per ton. On
7600 tons monthly this would leave a profit of £26,500, or
over 2s. a share. The winzes below No. 8 level are going
down in good ore.
* * * •
Frank Hartmann, late of Lake View Consols
(W.A.), is again in charge of Ivanhoe South Extended
and Southern Development Co. In former, main shaft is
to be carried down to 1500 ft. to cut Ivanhoe middle lode,
alleged to have been located by bore. As the Ivanhoe
lodes are practically vertical for the 800 ft. tested, and are
600 ft. east of the Extended’s boundary,J,he surmise looks
far-fetched. At past rate of progress the riddle will
remain unsolved for years, as there are still 300 ft. to sink.
* • » *
Mainly, ifc seems, on the recommendations
of the Sulman-Picard firm, the Elmore concentrating
process is being taken on by Westralian co’s. This
is the interesting oil process against which people
have been rather prejudiced by the claim that it can deal
with any ore—gold, copper, silver, or anything else. It
is simple enough. After the ore has been crushed fine
(30 or 40 mesh), the pulp, not too wet, is thoroughly
mixed with a thick, sticky mineral oil, the residue left in
the stills after the refining of paraffin. The oil lays hold
of metal particles, but passes all rock or earthy particles
hy on the other side. With its burden the oil presently
floats off, is caught, and in a centrifugal machine the two
are parted again. That is all. The claim is that oil
answers best where there is heavy float losses or where
the substances it is desired to separate are of almost the
Same specific gravity. It fails, however, to act on metallic
Oxides.
* * • *
Ivanhoe (W.A.) return for August: 10,767 tons,
12,1720 z. Total charges, including development, 41s. per
ton. Profit for month, about £20,000.
• * * •
In August 12 new cos., with a nominal capital
of £223,950, were registered at Charters Towers. Of this
capital, £71,750 is represented by paid-up shares, so
contrib.-holders will have the satisfaction of knowing
that, while they will have to bear all the expenses for
certain, they can only reap about two-thirds of the
problematical profits—and in some instances the profits
are very problematical indeed. During same period 33
mining leases, totalling 868 acres, were applied for ; so
doubtless September will see numerous “ cats ” foisted
on the market—that is, if the public is not already sated
with cats’-meat.
* * * *
The boom in Charters Towers stock is waning
sooner than expected, there having been an all-round
decline in values last week. The appreciation in the
value of shares compared with 12 months ago is fully
£1,500,000, and new flotations will probably represent
£500,000 more. As the Towers has to rely almost solely
on its own people for the maintenance of share-values, it
was quite unreasonable to suppose that high prices could
be long sustained. With so many mines in the prospect-
ing stage and so many new companies starting, it is neces-
sarily imperative that many holders of good stock must
realise, to get money with which to hold up the other
stocks. One thing is to be said in favor of the increase in
share values—in the majority of instances, mine pro-
spects have fully warranted it.
* * * *
Charters Towers divs. for August totalled
£26,716, and Bendigo had the fair record of £20,500.
Latter has made a good start for current month with
£10,574 for the first week.
» » « *
Bonnie Dundee (Charters Towers) shareholders
have had their patience sorely tried. The deep shaft was
to have bottomed some time ago. First delay caused by
rope breaking, the bucket falling on and killing a man.
At the inquiry it was stated that the engine was not
powerful enough to lift its burden steadily from the
bottom (2240 ft.) and the bucket had to be taken with a
jerk. Result, new rope and engine bought. New rope
condemned by mine inspectors. Then it was decided to
cross-cut for the Brilliant Reef. Latest development is
the striking of hot water in the face of the cross-cut. The
heat fnnst have been intense as the manager reports
that tha machines had to be left in the face.
The connection of the Bonnie Dundee deep shaft with the
Brilliant Extended (they bear the cost of sinking between
them) would mean an increase in the output of the latter
with the same amount of labor, as, owing to the heat, 10
minutes in and five out is recognised as a fair thing.
A shute of good stone has been struck in the Day Dawn
Consolidated (Charters Towers). Reported formation 6ft.
thick and going strong underfoot. If so, a record will
probably be put up in sinking: “ Plant’s ” Day Dawn deep
shaft.
* * * *
Negotiations in connection with the proposed
amalgamation of the Long Tunnel mines (Vic.) have been
cried off. The two co.’s practically got within easily
adjustable difference as to the proportion of shares to be
allotted to each in a new co., and then the question of
managerial control cropped up. One co. was unreason-
able enough to stipulate that its managers and directors
should have sole control of the amalgamated mines.
This was too selfish a suggestion for the other co. to
agree to, and now each will continue to run “ on its own,”
the result of which will be that tens of thousands of
pounds will be wantonly wasted. Long Tunnel 00. has
accepted a tender to sink the first 1000 ft. of the new
3000 ft. shaft. The letting of this contract displays lack
of up-to-date business methods in mines. Anywhere else
than in Victoria the 3000 ft. of sinking would have
been let in one contract, and the contractor would
have been bound under severe penalties to have the work
completed within record time. By dividing the work
into three contracts, as intended, the chances are that the
work will extend over twice the period that it should.
L.T. Extended last return was an excellent one—lBosoz.
from 889 tons, the stone being won from below 2000 ft.
• * * •
There has been a big slump in the value of
Hustlers (Bendigo) stocks, consequent on the falling off
in the return from No. 1 mine, the records for two weeks
being 194 tons for 6290 z. and 200 tons for 4460 z. The last
crushing was taken from all parts of the mine, but the
average of 2£oz. per ton, good as it is, is not considered
good enough to keep the stock up to 40s.
* * * •
The Cassilis Gold Co. (Vic.), the company with
the future, the company which is always bothered by bad
roads, troubled by feeble air-compressors, or dry dams,
or more machinery, or bank interest, or worried by
“ timber, fuel, tools, stores, and explosives,” and many
other of the ills that badly-managed mining companies
seem heir to, has produced a threnody in accountancy
quite beating a bike road-race in disaster. After spend-
ing £17,000 on machinery, £11,480 on the mine, and
£2578 on the Commercial Bank, the directors seem
“ getting no forrader.” The gold raised during the six
months ending 28th August was sold for r1C,616, and of
that £13,270 was spent on a list from “Office Expenses”
to “ Dapto Smelting Charges,” which are quite worthy of
a Walhalla mine and not nearly so easily justified. “It
was only out of consideration for the shareholders in
these bad times that your board decided to try and make
the mine find the money, and we have been so far
successful that we shall be able to accomplish our object.”
And no mention is made of the Commercial Bank and its
overdraft of £2578 17s.
* * * ->*
Lord Nelson (Vic.), has got over the £200,000
div. mark, and it is estimated that there is £lOO,OOO
actually in sight. Stock quoted at 605.-635., but these are
merely nominal figures. Shares are strongly held. Co.
would do well to acquire Nelson North leases, which it
now has a favorable opportunity to do on reasonable
terms.
• • • »
Jubilee, Scarsdale (Vic.), seems to be a mine of
solid merits. It has a shute of ore continuous for 800 ft.,
the lode averaging about 2ft. oin. Crushings since
inception of co. show lldwts. per ton. Prospectus
promise was B£dwts. Realisation in excess of antici-
pation is a refreshing novelty. There are two levels prac-
tically intact, and shaft is down ready for starting
another. Lode has shown improvement in value in each
successive sink. Shares at about 30s. look like a sound
investment—as sound a thing as one could expect in
mining, wherein there is no certainty as great as the un-
certainty.
* * * •
Bendigo has been famous as a goldfield for over
50 years, and still seems to be far from worked out. Its
mines have lately been returning more than half of the
total dividends paid by Victorian co.’s. The aggregate
average value of the ore from paying and non-paying
mines is about 325. per ton, and more than half of this
is returned as profit.
* • * •
London mining men are continually harping on
the alleged excessive rentals charged on mining leases in
Australia, but in their own country they submit to mon-
strous extortion and consider it moderation. The co.’s
working'gold-mines in Wales have to pay a royalty of 4
per cent, on the gross value of gold and silver recovered,
and this, we are told, is “ quite a nominal figure.” This is
irrespective of income-tax. The royalty is a “perk” of
the Prince of Wales. What a howl of indignation there
would be if the Australian legislatures insisted on having
a 2 per cent, royalty on the value oif metals and minerals ?
Ada Reeve had the splendid audacity to tell M.A.P.
she was the first girl to turn a catherine-wheel somer-
sault on the music-hall stage. Ada’s claim to celebrity on
that account called forth reminiscences of the time when
Fannie Leslie, who is old enough to be Ada’s mother,
used to go whirling round the stage on feet and fingers.
And wasn’t Lottie Moore an earlier cathetine-wheeliste
than Ada Reeve ?
The most charming spectacle at Sandow’s private
demonstration in Melb. was smooth Pastor Bevan
prodding the strong man gingerly in his anatomy to see
what it was like. Sandow, a bit of a humorist, imme-
diately singled out the cherubic one and appealed to him
to dig a little harder, as it didn’t hurt. Then he seized
the fat Bevan hand and rubbed it violently up and down
his three extraordinary abdominal muscles. Bevan must
have imagined he was having his knuckles peeled on a
scrubbing board. Sandow upsets many theories, principal
among which is the one that “ hardness” of muscle must
show itself even in repose. When Sandow stands at ease
he is as flabby as a sponge, and you can dig holes in him
with your fingers, but when he tautens up he is a
“ knubbly ” mass, like a heap of road metal for hardness.
He affirms that this is one of the conditions of a healthy
strength.
“ F.” : Miss Nance O’Neil, it is cabled, has had a “ fair
success” in London as Magoa—perhaps her best part,
with the exception of Hedda Gabler. The news con-
firms the critical opinion of the bountiful O’Neil formed
in Australia —a woman with great talent, perhaps with a
soupcon of genius, but “ run wild,” untrained, vociferous,
and with a tendency to throw a good part of a ton of
flesh about recklessly. If Nance O’Neil had been
caught young by a thoroughly skilful manager—one with
the head of Dot Boucicault and the body of Lawrence
Foley—who could, if necessity arose, drag her around the
stage by the hair and explain things at the same time,
she might have made a really great actress.
“ Thesp.” : Somebody wants to know where and when
Kate Bishop acted Juliet? She played the part to Frank
Oates’ Romeo in the old Opera House, Melb., over 15
years ago.
“ Jimmie P.” : Wallace King, the tuneful Tivoli tenor,
now in Maoriland, has been stricken with paralysis, and
lost both singing and speaking voice. Doctors say that
he will probably never sing again. P. R. Dix has opened
a subscription on behalf of the afflicted one.
“Haresfoot”: Richard Stewart, just deceased, was a
prime Sydney favorite 42 years ago. He and Ned Hol-
loway were the leaders in a famous theatrical strike.
This was partly the reason why Stewart turned his atten-
tion to Melbourne. There he first appeared under
Edwards and Faucett Rowe, at the Royal. They were
also the lessees of the Princess’s. Stewart was transferred
there, and appeared with Julia Mathews and Rowe in
“Aladdin,” and other successful burlesques. When
Wheatleigh brought over the “Colleen Bawn,” and
acted Danny Mann, Stewart took Myles na Coppaleen.
Jefferson was the next noteworthy star. He opened as
Rip Van Winkle, Stewart being Knickerbocker.
Next, Stewart supported Jefferson as Sir Lucius
O’Trigger in “The Rivals,” and Lord Dundreary
in “Our American Cousin.” Then the versatile
Richard changed to Uncle Pete, in “The Octoroon.”
Ooppin opened the Haymarket with “ Our American
Cousin,” Jefferson and Stewart appearing in it. Stewart
also did well as Fangarronades to Dillon’s Belphegor. He
brought forward Miss Theodosia Guerin, his step-
daughter, as Miss Docy Stewart, in Planche’s extrava-
ganza, “ The King of the Peacocks”; and also Miss
Maggie Guerin, known as Stewart. When Barry Sullivan
opened as Royal lessee, C. Young was low comedian
there. He refused to play Tony Lumpkin in “ She
Stoops to Conquer ” at brief notice, and left the theatre.
Stewart replaced him as Tony. Afterwards Young re-
turned, and both remained at the establishment. _ “ The
Hunchback ” was cast with remarkable strength, includ-
ing Sullivan, Heir, C. Vincent, Lambert, Young, Stewart,
Miss Cleveland, and Mrs. Heir. Stewart and Young
alternated Khorsanbad, in “ Lalla Rookh,” Christmas, 1863.
The Harlequinade was the best ever seen in Australia,
with the Edwins and the Leopolds. Stewart was at the
Royal under the management of Clarence Holt and Hos-
kins. He acted Gulliver, in the Christmas pantomime, in
1866. Next year came the management of Lambert, Vin-
cent, Harwood, Bellair, Stewart and Hennings, opening
with “ The Serf.” “ The Flying Scud ” was a great hit.
The management underwent various changes, Stewart
sticking in it until Coppin got the concern. After the
Are, and rebuilding, Coppin took in Hennings, Stewart,
and Greville as partners. Miss Nellie Stewart appeared
as a boy, in “ Saratoga,” and strengthened her position a
good deal as Orpheus in the burlesque of Pluto. The
whole Stewart family went on a tour of America, with
Garnet Walch’s “Rainbow Revels” and If. Thence-
forward there is not much to write about Dicks pro-
fessional career.
Tyrone Power, late of Australia, has been playing
Bassanio in Irving’s revivals of “ Merchant of Venice.


A CHAIN OF EVIDENCE.
HE WORLD is FULL of MARTYRS. There is a DEATH every time THE CLOCK TICKS. VERDICTS ARE DAILY GIVEN that HE or SHE DIED FROM
NATURAL CAUSES ” which is DISEASE Eighty per cent, of the WORLD’S POPULATION die before their average life-period is reached. __ . . T;r
For the cure of’diseases daily killing the people, such as INDIGESTION, DYSPEPSIA FUNCTIONAL HEA^ T wt E F™ T pt?v D InD MEmCINE W
RHEUMATISM INSOMNIA EPILEPSY “the new ELECTRO-THERAPEUTIC methods, or the judicious treatment of ELECTRICITY AND MEDIGINL, practised by
the SPECIALISTS of the FREEMAN AND WALLACE INSTITUTE, establishes CERTAIN, PERMANENT CURES.
IF YOU ARE A MARTYR TO any of the above diseases, GET CURED
BEFORE YOU ARE BEYOND MEDICAL AID. READ THE TESTIMONIES
BELOW from some of the WORLD’S best-known people. THE SYSTEM THAT
CURED THEM WILL CURE YOU. Re-vitalise your constitution by the infusion
into your nerves of the NATURAL ELECTRIC VIGOR and nerve-force which is
lacking, by means of a specially-tested Electric “ INVIGORATOR,” the prices of
which are published below. WORN round the waist for A FEW HOURS NIGHTLY,
in conjunction with SOUND MEDICAL TREATMENT, INVALIDS ARE
INVALIDS NO LONGER, THE WEAK BECOME STRONG, AND THE STRONG
STRONGER.
Two Famous Specialists in Nerve Diseases.
A SERIES of PROFESSIONAL TRIUMPHS is the record of the SPECIALISTS of '
The Freeman & Wallace Institute.*
The testimonials below are selected from thousands. If you can be cured, the
SPECIALISTS will tell you so frankly. THEY CHARGE NOTHING for personal
examinations. In CHRONIC DISORDERS they have done more good than
any other association of medical men in Australia. The SPECIALISTS’ system j
of Electro-Medical Invigoration is unequalled in the cure of diseases classed as
“ INCURABLE.” Read the following testimonials and think seriously over them
r
%
Mr. HOWARD FREEMAN,
DIRECTOR OF INSTITUTE.
A Professional Pianist Declares
Mr. J. H. Brown, late of Dix
Theatrical Companies, N.Z., suffered
from Brain-fag. He says :
“I testify to the marvellous benefits ob-
tained from your Electro-Medical treatment.
I bad consulted some leading practitioners in
Sydney with no good results. Anyone suffer-
ing from brain-fag, or general decline of the
nerve system, should consult you.
(Signed) J. H. BROWN.
A Famous Athlete says.
Mr. JACK MARSH, the
brilliant professional bowler and
, cricketer, of whom so much
notoriety has recently arisen in
cricketing circles, declares :
“Heavy strain, entailed by bowl-
ing in many matches, caused weak-
ness in my loins and legs, with rheu-
matic and sciatic tendencies. To
remedy it I tried your Electric
‘ INVIGORATOR,’ and was greatly
benefitted.
(Signed) JACK MARSH.”
NOTE.—The “INVIGORATOR” Is
specially beneficial in all cases of
Rheumatic or Sciatic affliction and
is an infallible remedy.
Great Pugilist Swears Thus.
• The Champion Lightweight of Aus-
tralia, Mr. Gr. Johns, says of this
remarkable system:
“I have worn one of your Electric ‘ln-
vigorators,’ and have.found its effects most
beneficial to my nerve and muscular systems.
It has done me good in training and actual
contests. (Signed) G. JOHNS.”
Champion Lightweight of Australia.
A Great Athlete Testifies.
Mr. JOSEPH MEGSON, the CHAMPION
CYCLIST of NEW SOUTH WALES, says
of his recovery :
“ T was on the point of a constitutional break-up more
than once. The merits of your ‘ Invigorator ’ used by me
are'beyond question. J. MEGSON.”
Mr. MEGSON can be interviewed upon this
wonderful cure. What has been done for him
can be done for you.
*ni
ffiriH-Brow
*
'
Yirmmk
y-FC
m
4 .
m
m
m
m
.
m
;/?• 1
/
What
DAN I,
The great singer,
says:
SIGNOR CARLO DANI, the distinguished
operatic tenor of the Royal Italian Opera
Company, lately in Sydney, says of the
Electric “ INVICORATOR " which he wore :
“I have much pleasure to inform you
that, owing", to the great lassitude J have
experienced here, due no doubt to sudden
climatic changes, I have worn your Electric
‘ Invigorators,’ from which I have obtained
great benefit to my muscular and nerve
systems.—Yours cordially,
CARLO DANI."
(The original of
this Testimony
may he seen at the
Institute.
DR. RICHARD WALLACE,
M.D., L.R.C.P., H., L.P.P.S., E., L.M., Phyaician-in-Chief.
A Famous Rider SpeaKs.
The new “ TOD SLOAN n Ameri-
can style of riding was introduced
into Australia by Mr. Edward H.
Ames, the famous American jockey.
He declares:
“I wore one of your first-class Electric
* INVIGORATORS,’ and took a course of
your medicines. I regained my usual
nerve power, by which I won two great
racing events in one day.
(Signed) EDWARD H. AMES.”
An Inter-State Pugilist
attests.
Mr. MAT MITOHIE says
of his big fight with Denny
Maloney :
Golden Gate Athletic Club,
Sydney.
“I wore your Electric ‘ Invigora-
tor’ during training for my fight
with Denny Maloney, and to its
strengthening effect I attribute much
of the vigor and staying power that
enabled me to win the decision.
(Signed) MAT MITOHIE."
Champion Amateur
Swimmer says.
Mr. Jack Hellings, Cham-
pion Amateur Swimmer, asserts,
after a few months’ treatment at
the hands of the Specialists
“ I have been cured of rheumatism from
which I suffered for years, with continuous
sciatic attacks. Your treatment of Electro-
Medication has restored me to health.
The ‘ INVIGORATOR’ which I wore has
done me more good than I can ever ex-
press.” (Signed) JACK HEELINGS.”-
The Prices of these wonderful curative “ IN-
VIGORATORS ” are as follow
Copper Plate, £1; Silver Plate, £1 10s.;
Solid Silver, £3; Solid Gold, £lO (2oz. 18c. Gold).
We hold Certificates of Efficacy unpossessed by
others. Two leading Sydney electricians assert they
are “ electrically perfect, and their currents are con-
tinuous as used for medical purposes.”
These “ INVIGORATORS ” are superior to any
“ Belt ” sold at £5 or £lO each.
The Specialists’ Fees : Advice & Medicine, ONE POUND only.
REMARKS.
All attestants may be interviewed. The SPECIALISTS’ treatment is sure and effective. Improvement is rapid and certain.
You need not fear but that you WILL RECOVER if you try a course of Electro-Medication. It acts at once on the nervous centres, animating the
nerves, re-strengthening the muscular system, equalising the circulation, improving the blood-stream. It clears the brain, strengthens and regulates the
heart, and makes a man or woman healthy and strong, AS NATURE INTENDED THEM TO BE. A man is no longer feeble under this treatment; he REGAINS ALL HIS DOST
STRENGTH, and finds no PHYSICAL TRIAL that he cannot conquer. It is the finest medium in the world to physical peace and domestic harmony.
CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,” 550 pages, 150 Medical Plates, ONE SHILLING Post Free.
Professional Credentials.
of QUALIFICATION and REGISTRATION of the Physician-in-Chief by the MEDI-
CAL BOARDS Oh NEW SOUTH WALES, VICTORIA, SOUTH AUSTRALIA, ENGLAND and AMERICA open forjpublic
inspection at the Institute. Late Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne, and British Imperial Army Medical Staff. Sir DOMINIC CORRIGAN. Bart., Physician to the late Queen
speaking of the Ehysician-in-Chief, says:—“l entertain a high opinion of Dr. Wallace in regard to his professional qualifications.”
Professional opinions are always free. Letters replied to with utmost secrecy. Medicines sent free from observation.
FREEMAN WALLACE
and SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director Electro-Medical Department. Medicines packed Free from Observation and sent to all parts Of Australia.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., L.M., Physician-in-Chief. Letters treated with Professional Secrecy and promptly replied to.


S.S.: Like “L.M.D.” of a recent Bulletin
par, I too have often thought how it would work
if our souls were stripped before one another and
men and women saw each other as they are. But
I do not think any sense of terror or horror would
follow. Man would look at his brothers and say :
“Great Heaven, how like we are!” Much that
is supposed to be centred in man’s heart would
come off with his skin.
.N ervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
33 of this issue *
The Bulletin Reciter:
By Eighty (80) Bulletin Bards. With Illustrations by “Hop,” N. Lindsay,
A. J. Fischer, F. Leist, D. H. Souter, and H. McCrae. In handsome cloth,
decorated. Price, 55.; postage, 4d.
There has not been a more interesting
Australian book published for a long time than
“ Bushman and Buccaneer’’—giving the life and
writings of Harry Morant (“The Breaker”).
Every bushman will want to buy a copy for the
sake of the complete collection of “The Breaker’s”
verses which it contains. The book gives a photo-
graphic reproduction of the “ copy ” of Morant’s
last verses, written in gaol, and many illustrations,
from authentic photographs, of the Bushveldt
Carbineers’ operations. Price one shilling.
Wholesale from Edwards Dunlop and Co., Syd-
ney.—Advt.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Core.
THE FA.3VEOXJS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA. 1
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient
*nd a Complete Cure is certain. ° y ’
BEWARE OF COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hsarne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about, the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved! lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
Which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster ~ London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
email bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vic.
"Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain’ and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.’
Extract from a letter, since written by tlie same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows :—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night's rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Ag-ony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“ Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
foi five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchi tt
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, ami at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first, dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment]
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney."
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes :—“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to tryHearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15-years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it ”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE
xvihiAiJU 15 x ±±ihj PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist. Geelong, Victoria.
—' Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street. Svdnev. Tel 3562
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Fast to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
BRANCH DEPOT-
(A 3 NQ AS IAIOdd S3HIAI 9S>
‘TOOT
vnvuisnv JO OO DNINIdHU V ON 1113 IMS ®M±
SMELTERS
AND
REEINE RS
OF
SILVER
LEAD
BULLION
■ ■ ’’ ■"7 1 yv
MAKERS OF
S. Co, of Australia
AND
‘ ILLAWARRA’ 1
BRANDS OF
SOFT LEAD.
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
W. L. HOYT, Manager.
Agents.
Assay Offices, General Offices, Store and Sulphuric Chamber
Highest Price paid for GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, and JEWELLERS’ & c .
For all information regarding Rates, apply to HEAD OFFICE, DAPTO.
-A-* US- -ttncldler & CZJo., 40 Pitt Street, Sydney, General
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
Food’
has by its excellence
established a repu-
iat on of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, nutritive, and digestible.
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere
Extracts Jrom Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
t) find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Benger’s
Food’ everywhere.”
“If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


A prayer which, Dean Hole avers, a North
Country (Eng.) parson was in the habit of offering
up for Queen Adelaide
0 Lord, save thy servant, our Sovereign lady the
Queen ; grant that as she grows an old woman she may
become a new man ; strengthen her with Thy blessing
that she may live a pure virgin, bringing forth sons and
daughters to the glory of God ; and give her grace that
she may go forth before her people like a he-goat on the
mountains.
“ F.C." : I am sick of those letters in
the press from ex-cohentingenters declaiming
against the State Governments for their treatment
of the pseudo-patriots. As one who received a
chance to go (when acceptance meant popularity,
glory and a good billet) and refused because he
had adopted Australia as his country, and
recognised that his first duty was to her,
I would like to ask these mercenaries
what they expect. The best that can be
said of them is that they abandoned Australia —
their abandonment may not have meant much,
but that is a detail—for the sake of a 12 months’
billet at 355. a week and their tucker, and to help
England beat the Boers. Then why does their
wail pervade this country, like the rabbit and the
sparrow ? Let them look to England for their
reward. As for the Jingo promises of open
billets, State employment and so forth, does not a
nurse, to get the peace and quietness she wants,
promise a squalling child the moon ? And does
the infant get it ? Are these men babies, fools or
what? Let them take a lesson from those who
stopped at home and worked in and for Australia ;
and from those other workers in England who have
to foot the heavy bill, one item of which is for cohen-
tingenters who were paid double what they were
worth.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releasee
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
wal ff- You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
JS7i S rASA übrnlt to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
u YOU ' don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured,
bend at once for
ALBERT'S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, lumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
i i'dpdS?’ Britain, 1/1 Jd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERI 73, Farnngdon-street, London, England.
Agents : ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers stiould
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
ENNESS
CURED
DRUNK
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
tiTSee my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, igoi, wherein I agree to
accept ioo Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free,
W. LANGSTON, M R.C.S.. Bn*..
68 Russell St., Melbourne.
m/m/y.
BUSHMAN WATCH
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
KELTS and
A TELIA N CES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and’restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that id
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
CALVERTS
20 per cent.
CARBOLIC
SOAP
Cures and prevents Insect
and Mosquito bites.
The strongest Carbolic Toilet Soap.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
* EVERY MAN L
SUFFERING from DEBILITY and WEAKNESS should
send for a valuable Pamphlet explaining how all
Nervous and Organic Derangements may be success-
fully treated without stomach medication. The method
is easy and pleasant, and will effect a perfect and per-
manent cure. Sent in a plain sealed envelope free of
charge. E. NORTON, 59 &60 Chancery Lane, London,
gj Eng. Over 30 years’ continuous success. jg
Free for Asking*.
WRITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking-, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to Proprietor, Box 135, G.P.0., Adelaide, S.A.
LOVELY COLORS
BRILLIANT
GLOSS.
REJECT
IMITATIONS.
SPINALIS
OXIDISED
3yiijii.:iitHiiiiiMuii iiiimmiiii im'iii-iinjijiiii
ERFECT
ACTIONS FOR USE
!* mm
NEW
GROSS. LONDON. fSJE
m
See that Aspinall’s name
and Medals are stamped
on every Tin «
manufactured by
ASPINALLS ENAMEL Ltd, NEW CROSS,
LONDON, ENG,
Dr. Clarkson’s Electric Bolt,
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Ur. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
V
will, bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is trulv wonderful.
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
CAtai OR WRITE—
OWL
DRUG STORE
CUT
RATE
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
WISDOM !
SAVE YOUR
MONEY.
SAVE YOUR
TIME.
V#
#
m WHERE TO
%
PROSPERITY
CAN’T LAST FOR EVER WITHOUT THE
PUBLIC’S CONFIDENCE AND APPRECIATION,
EVIDENCE OF WHICH IS DAILY RE-
CEIVED IN THE FORM OF TESTI-
MONIALS AND GRATEFUL LETTERS
BY
Herb RASSMUSSEW
THE WORLD-FAMED DANISH
HERBALIST & BOTANIST,
PROPRIETOR OF THE
HERBAL
REGISTERED
REMEDIES
A FEW WORDS TO THE UNINITIATED.
PERSONAL AND PERTINENT.—Those who have Dot met Herr Rassmussen, and
who have not given his Alfaline Herbal Remedies a trial, may find it beneficial to become
acquainted with the good work which he has done in the interest of suffering humanity for
the last twenty years.
ALONG BACK IN THE BEGINNING OF THE EIGHTIES
Ilcrr Rassmussen introduced his now world-famed Alfaline Herbal Remedies to the Australian public at 547 George
Street, Sydney. Australia was then flooded with American importations and proprietary remedies, manufactured
by doubtful persons with assumed names and fictitious addresses, who took the people’s money without
responsibility, and very often without giving them fair value for same.
HERR RASSMUSSEN BROUGHT ABOUT A REVOLUTION
by straightforward and fair dealings with the public, offering to stake his reputation and future if his remedies
were not as efficacious as he claimed them to be, accepting all responsibility, and willing to abide by the people’s
verdict.
THE HAPPY RESULT IS KNOWN TO EVERYONE.
Over twenty years have passed away, hundreds of remedies have come and gone—many of them were forced on
the public in numerous designing ways—thousands of pounds spent on advertising same with the assistance of the
world’s grea'est experts in laying traps for the unwary; but the public would have none of them, and they have
disappeared as suddenly as a flash of lightning.
“THE ALFALINE REMEDIES EXCELL ALL OTHERS,”
and are well known to be more popular to-day than they have ever been. They have not only obtained, but
have retained the goodwill and confidence of the Australian public, and have become famous throughout the
civilized world. The first Sydney Office not only yet exists, but offices have been opened up for their sale at
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Wellington, N.Z., and in West Australia at Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie and
Boulder City, with Agencies throughout the world,
LET THE PUBLIC JUDGE FROM THE FOLLOWING
The Alfaline Remedies have held their own for over twenty years in Australia, and Herr Rassmussen has
been awarded the Parisian Acadamies’ Gold Medal and Diploma of Honour ; Gold Medal, Sydney, and several Silver
Medals; honourably mentioned in almost every newspaper in Australia; received many thousands of unsolicited
testimonials—every one of the originals open for inspection at his Offices. The Alfaline Remedies have never been
known to fail to cure in a single instance.
ARE THEY NOT WORTH A TRIAL?
if they are, why not try them to-day ? why leave it till to-morrow and, perhaps, lose your chance and time? No
order so small that it is not welcome ; no order so large that it cannot be executed at once. If you first wish
evidence of the efficacy of the Alfaline Remedies,
SEND FOR HIS FREE BOOK,
and read what the experienced have to say, and what the Australian newspapers have to say—the double distilled
extracts from the Press speak for themselves.
A FEW OF THE ALFALINE REMEDIES:
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS never fail to cure Nervous Diseases, Weak Spine,
Troubled Brain. Fatigued Nerves, Despondency, Poor Memory, Debility, Want of Confidence,
restore Vital Strength, and preserve the system against being affected by age more than any
known remedy. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; course, 23/6 posted.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS are a permanent cure for all Chronic, Blood and Skin
Diseases, no matter how caused, or of how long standing—Blotches, Blood Disorders, Gravel,
Diseases of the Urinary Organs, etc., etc. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; courses, 23/6 posted.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS completely cure Wasting Diseases in Women
—Anaemia, Whites, Poverty of Blood, Sallow Complexion, Dull Eyes, and act as a perfect
Blood and Nerve Tonic. Boxes, 6/- and 12/- ; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE RHEUMATIC PILLS cure Rheumatism, Gout,Sciatica, Lumbago, Ravages
from Rheumatic Fever, Chalky Formation in the Joints. Boxes, 3/-, 6/-, and 12/-; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS remove all Stomach Troubles, Costive-
ness, Indigestion, Flatulence, Heartburn, Wind, Biliousness and Headache. Boxes, I/-.
GENERAL ALFALINE REMEDIES.
Alfaline Pile Powders cure internal and external Piles, boxes 3/- and 6/- ; Varicocele
Powders, boxes 6/- ; Blood Capsules or Globulus, 6/-; Fat Reducing Powders, which remove
Corpulency, 6/- ; Hair Restorer, 6/- ; Corn Cure, 1/-; Ointment, 1/- ; Eucalyptus Oil and
Jujubes, boxes 1/-; Flesh-Producing Powders, 6/-; Complexion Beautifiers remove Pimples
and Freckles, 3/- and 6/-; Alfaline Embrocation removes all sorts of Muscular Pains, Stiff
Joints—good lor Footballers, bottles 1/6 posted; Worm Tablets, 1/-; Headache Tablets,
Instant Cure, 1/- ; Soluble Quinine Pessaries, 5/- ; Electric Belts, Suspenders, Bandages,
Enemas, Glass Syringes, etc. Circulars with all particulars sent Free.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALITY.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has made special arrangements for attending
personally to his Clients living in the Country, and letters will receive
most careful personal attention. Advice or information sent free and
unobserved. Patrons may rely on skilful, honest and confidential treatment.
His Remedies will be forwarded to sufferers, packed in plain cover and
unobserved, together with Advice and Directions. Letters should be addressed
to Herr Rassmnssen’s full name—HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN—and
Registered if containing Money, and may be sent to any of
Herr Rassmussen’s Addresses
Head Office: 547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
ALSO AT
»
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke Street
BRISBANE—3O9 Queen Street
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney Street
N.S.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington
W.A.—PERTH—4BI Hay Street
XALUOORLIE—Hannan Street
BOULDER ClTY—Piesse Street
PRIMANTLE—II7 High. Street
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of Alfaline Remedies-


presents that mill Please
«0U cannot possibly be disappointed by visit-
ing us, so come here whether you have
a definite idea of what you want or not.
We offer you the biggest variety and the most
reasonable prices it is possible to offer.
If you have not seen our new Catalogue,
ask us for one. If you live out of town
send us your name and address on a post-
card and you will get one by return mail.
No. F 4708.
Silver-plated
and Pearl
Bread Fork.
11s 6d.
No. F346?.—Fine Leather, pnd Silver-
Mounted Pocket Book, 10s Od.
No. F3939.—Gent.’s Silver Hair
Brush, 21s.
No. 374 A. —6 Silver-plated Tea Spoons
and Tongs, 10s 6d.
No. 363.—A1 Silver-plated Sugar Tongs,
3s 6d.
No. 253.—501 id Silver Match Box, 10s6d.
Silver
Glove
Buttoner,
Is 6d.
No. 20.—Gent.’s Opal
Ring, 18ct. gold,
i £4103.
No. EBO3l.- Tasteful 9ct. Gold Bangle, £l l7s. 6d.
No. B4B9o.—Dia-
mond Ruby and
18ct. Gold Ring,
No. M.— 15ct. Gold and Opal Fly Brooch, £ll5B,
No. 120. —15ct. Gold, Diamond and Ruby
Brooch, £2 7s 6d.
15ct. Gold Heavy Band Bracelet. £4 4s. Smaller, £3.
m
. ~
mm
*
No. E 6659. —9ct. Gold Engraved Bracelet, £ll7s Cd.
No. 193. —Links, 9cfc.
Gold, 15s 6d. 15c.
Gold, £llos. Silver,
4s Od.
m
No. 197.-Links, Oct. Gold,
£1 ss. 15ct. Gold, £2 ss.
Silver, 6s 6d.
No. 121A.—15ct. Gold Anchor Brooch,
£ll2s Cd.
No. E 6251. —9ct. Go!d Bird and Heart
Brooch, 12s 6d.
No. E7707.—9cb. Gold,
Pearl and Turquoise
Lace Brooch, £1 Is.
Pine Diamond Marquise
Bing, £4O.
m
No. 241.
Diamond - set
Scarf Pin,
£3 17s 6d.
No. 240.
15ct. Gold
and Pearl
Pin, £1 ss.
No. F6l2B.—Silver-plated Toast
Rack, 12s 6d.
wm
\
No. F3so2.—Silver Cabinet Photo.
Frame, 16s 6d.
No. E 6444. Engraved
A 1 Silver-plated Napkin
. Ring, 5s 6d.
No. EB499.—Purse and Card Case,
4 Silver Corners and Lock, £1 Is.
No. 359.—Silver-plated Breakfast
Cruet, 13s 6d.
No. E 7072.— Silver
and Ivory Rattle,
13s 6d.
Fit e Opal an 1 15ct.
Go <1 Heart, £5 5a
Smaller, 75?.
Silver-plated
Spectacle
Case, 14s 6d.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Supposing increments are stopped in
N.S.W. public service, where does the unfortu-
nate professional division come in ? The Public
Service Board managed, after deep thought, to
work out some kind of a regular scheme of incre-
ments for the lower divisions of the service, and,
in a precarious sort of way, they got their little
rise. But the professional division consisted of
men whose work required special knowledge, and it
took the Board so long to estimate the value of that
special knowledge that it never estimated it at all.
The professional division never heard anything
definite concerning its rise, because the Board was
still buried in thought about the matter and felt it
too important to be lightly dealt with. And mean-
while the salary of Smith, who, at the first grading
of the service, was put in the clerical division, has
overtaken and passed that of Jones, who was put
in the professional division at a higher wage
because of his extra ability, and the more respon-
sible character of his work. Now that all incre-
ments are to be stopped, and the salary of the
inferior Smith is to remain permanently ahead of,
or level with, that of the superior Jones, Jones
naturally calls the Public Service Board a wooden-
headed ass.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
KIN
2h.p. to 100h.p.
MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
Noiseless Uuderwater. .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
jr. ar.
Telephone 2371.
WITH THE KING ENGINE-ONE LEVER CONTROLS THE WHOLE.
IVE & C o 3VE A. 3 XT Y,
37 MARKET street, H^ymynn-y.
OIR’S
FRESH HERRINGS.
In 1 lb. Round Flat Tins.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS
French’s Acting Edition.
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
EooJis Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
9 201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
Business, Robbery, etc.
The Adelaide 'papers have, in the interests of
traders, re-started the practice of publishing the names
of persons brought up each week on Unsatisfied Judgment
Summonses. They fill several inches of space and are
monuments of harassed indigence. Strange to say it was
the magistrate who advised the resuscitation of the
practice, which had been discontinued for years.
**' * *
“J.F.D.”: The’Murkan gentleman in charge
of the .canvassers for a local medical work, now in the
press, has written up a special pamphlet giving all the
necessary instructions how-to effect a sale—from the
moment you say “ Good morning ” to the affixing of the
subscriber’s signature in the order T book. He says that
lonjif experience has taught him when the psychological
moment arrives hy watching his man’s eye, when it is
only necessary to hand him the pen and the order-book.
Tried my hand, and thought I had struck it With a subur-
ban! resident, w,ho never spoke once while I dilated on the
surpassing merits of the work. At last I insinuatingly
handed him the pen, whereupon he coolly Wrote across
the order-book : “ I am deaf and dumb, but I suppose
you’re a book-canvasser, get to hell out of this ! ”
• * * »
“Loco.” : Went into a tobacconist’s shop, in a
Vic. country town, t’other day. The shopkeeper asked
me iff I was a railway-man. (It is said that there is some-
thing peculiar about a railway-man, which enables anyone
to “ pick ” them as easily as townfolks “pick” a coun-
tryman.) “Yes,” I answered. “Then, of course, you
want a double in the two Cups ? ” He knew the railway-
man’s weakness. “ Ikey Mo” is not in favor of the
retrenchment of a class comprising some of his most con-
sistent customers.
* '• « *
“ Nymsie ” : Few of the thousands of Vic.
Friendly Societies’ members who trust themselves to the
tender mercies of the lodge doctor, and take £1 a week
when incapacitated by illness, know that Govt, actuary
Owen works while they are sleeping, on their behalf. At
the ' beginning L of'-the year he called for a tabulated list
of financial benefit members, in alphabetical order,
from each friendly and benefit society, and he is plod-
ding through these lists to look up discrepancies.
Saw a recent letter of his wherein he inquired if I was
not being overcharged in my contributions—a mistake
had been made in compiling the local lodge quarterly
returns from which above-mentioned official list was com-
piled, making me out five years younger than I am. And
another pointing out that a member who entered when
within a fortnight of being 17 years old should have been
charged as from last birthday—viz., 16 years of age—a
saving of 2d. a week. Little matters these, but of vital
import in the working of these benefit concerns. If there
was a constant State audit and. valuation of securities,
some wonderful muddles in book-keeping and trustee-
ship might be brought to light in the books of the various
brotherhoods.
* * * *
In an appeal on an income-tax case in Vic.,
t’other day, it came out that a syndicate that put £36,000
into a Gippsland estate and cut it up into dairy-farms
netted a clear £28,300 on the deal in a little over two
months. Which is one reason why dairying doesn’t pay
quite so well as it did.
* * * *
S.M. Herald advt. :
BARMAID has good Saloon Bar to LET, close to
city. • A. 8., Herald.
Actually advertising the sublet 1
* * * •
There was no mealy-mouthed hypocrisy about
an old sea captain who, in a recent Melb. salvage case
was asked, “Why were you feeling your way along the
coast so carefully ?” “ She was an uninsured vessel and I
was using extra care.” “Oh ! then you use more care
with an uninsured vessel than with an insured one ? ”
“Yes,”he frankly replied.
* * » •
“ F.”: Was recently assured by a woman-
canvasser that she was making £5 Weekly with a “ riever-
known-to-fail ” preparation for ladies.
Related that the boss of a certain Melbourne
yard had the misfortune to lose his son, but was too ab-
sorbed in grief to think of closing the works on the day of
the funeral. Notwithstanding this the staff, mostly
boys, assembled respectfully and bareheaded at the gate
as the funeral passed. This display of sympathy evidently
touched the grief-stricken parent,' for he put his head out
of the mourning-coach window and roared : “ Now then,
wot yer loafin’ there for?”
• » * • •
A Dunedin (M.L.) pawnbroker exhibits, in
addition to the orthodox three-balls, a signboard
inscribed : ‘‘The Golden Fleece.”
• • • •
The Amalgamated Society of Engineers, which
has possibly the biggest influence of any trade-union in
the world, is being stirred by some of its members to an
interest in “ free patents.” The first proposal was that
the society should take up the approved patent ideas of
members, and, if necessary, apply them at the society’s
own works ; a later proposal is for free patents. The
argument is that many a valuable idea formed in the
workshop is simply allowed to slide by the helpless Work-
man who can’t afford to protect it, and that industrial
progress will be fastest (other things being equal) where
the inventor is dealt with the most liberally.
• • * •
* The contract-versus-day-labor controversy has
spread to Dunedin. The Council lately let a contract
for the building of a steam street-roller, and when the
machine name home it started to roll the muddiest street
in all that muddy city. It got bogged fast, and a fearful
battle raged in the Council as" to whether it was
cheaper to let a contract to recover the engine, or for the
Council to dig it out by day labor. A third party has
been formed to agitate that another roller be bought.


m
6.1 U
immm
£d!cO§BS
PD
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM.
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark ” on band inside, as above.
.ANOTHER
CURATIVE
f AN IDEAL TONIC
is one that restores tone and efficiency to the
stomach, liver and kidneys impaired through
worry, overwork, climatic changes, unhealthy at-
mosphere in factory or office, disease or any other
cause. It promotes the thorough digestion and assimi-
lation of food, which are the foundation of good health.
Such a tonic is Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup. Mr.
Alex. Cochrane, Eva St., Tooranga, Victoria, in a letter
describing how he had for five years suffered from acute
indigestion and been completely cured by Mother Seigel’s
Curative Syrup, says. “Though it is eighteen months since I
took the last dose I feel better and stronger than ever I did in
my life before.” Such is the power of Mother Seigel’s Curative
Syrup.
MADE FROM ROOTS AND HERBS.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s (Ltd.);
CIRCULAR-POINTED PENS J
Seven Prize Medals Awarded.
Neither scratch nor
spurt, the points
being rounded by a
new process.
Attention is also
drawn to their new
“CRADUATED
SERIES OF
PENS.”
Each pattern being made in jour degrees of flexibility and Points.
Ask your Storekeepar for an Assorted Sample Box of either series.
Works: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND
arces
R
Coronation Spoon
A Special Treasure to British
People in Far-off Lands.
Size
of Spoons •
4 H & V/\
In Solid Silver or Gold. Price from 8/-, post free. Designed
and manufactured by Pearce and Sons, Silversmiths, Hud-
dersfield, England, by whom it is being sent to all parts of
the World.
olid
liver
historic Gift for 1902.
If you have an 1837 Souvenir of Queen
Victoria’s Coronation you know its
value, and will be anxious to secure
early the choicest Historic Souvenir
of KING EDWARD YII. This
registered emblematic spoon is a
I
new departure in souvenirs: a rare combination of_ the
beautiful, valuable, historic, and useful. No marriage
presents will be complete without a set of these emblematic
spoons. A gift for every ./hild of the Empire born m
this Coronation Year. No Souvenir could be more highly
appreciated. Sand for illustrations of Sizes and Prices.
The Historic Sift of 1903.
Description— The Bust of the King, surmounted by His Crown
the reverse bearing the Rose, Thistle, and Shamrock—Great Britain and
reland ; these support the Royal Monogram, E.R. VII., 1902, and are up-
held by iris-1 i.ce leaves, each representing one of our Great Possessions;
::ie leaves uniting form the Empire Stem. The Roots of this Empire
chant run rou id the Royal Arms, the Emblem of our Constitution,
iglit into the Heart of the Peoples.
Attention and Care given to
Colonial and Foreign Orders.
Colonials and those Abroad will affect a real Saving of Money in
purchasing direct from Messrs. Pkarck & Sons. Send for their
Pictorial Price List of Solid Silver Novelties and High-Class
Presents.
P£ARGE & SONS, Silversmiths, Ac.
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
c
f>Cf
o
o
N
ft
T
02
19
O
/ R r N° '
383491
The Lost Souls’ Hotel.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hungerford Road, February—and 130 miles of
heavy, reddish sand, bordered by dry, hot scrub.
Dense clouds of hot dust. Four wool-teams
passing through a gate in a “ rabbit-proof ” fence
which crosses the road. Clock, clock, clock of
wheels, and rattle and clink of chains; crack of
whips and explosions of Australian language.
Bales and everything else coated with dust.
Stink of old axle-grease and tarpaulins. Tyres
hot enough to fry chops on; bows and chains so
hot that it’s a wonder they do not burn through
the bullocks’ hides. Water luke-warin in blistered
kegs slung behind the waggons. Bullocks drag-
ging along as only bullocks do. Wheels ploughing
through the deep sand and lurching from side to
side. Half way on a “dry stretch” of 17 miles.
There is a big tank full of good water through
the scrub to the right, but it is a private tank and
a boundary-rider is shepherding it.
In the mulga scrub and sparse, spiky under-
growth, the carriers camp for dinner and boil their
billies while the bullocks droop under their yokes
in the blazing heat. One or two lie down, and the
leaders drag and twist themselves round beneath
a dead tree, under the impression that there is
shade there. The carriers look like Red Indians,
with their masks of red dust, “ bound ” with
sweat; but there is an unhealthy-looking, whitish
space round their eyes, caused by wiping away
the blinding dust, sweat and flies. The dry sticks
burn with a pale flame and an almost invisible
thin pale blue smoke. The sun’s heat is dancing
and dazzling aoross every white fence-post, sand-
hill, or light-colored object in the distance.
One man takes off his boot and sock, empties
half a pint of sand out of them, and pulls up his
trouser-leg. His leg is sheathed to the knee in
dust and sweat; he absently scrapes it with his
knife, and presently amuses himself by moisten-
ing a strip with his forefinger and shaving it—as
if he were vaguely curious to see if he were still a
white man. The Hungerford coach ploughs past
in a dense cloud of dust. The teams drag on
again. Hopeless-looking swagmen are met with
during the afternoon, and one carrier—he of the
sanded leg—hands them tobacco : his mates con-
tribute tea, flour and sugar.
Sundown, and the bullocks are done-up. The
teamsters unyoke them and drive them on to the
next water —five miles—having previously sent a
man ahead to reconnoitre and see that the bound-
ary-rider is not about, or, if he is, to make terms
with him —for it is a squatter’s bore. They hurry
the bullocks down to the water and back in the
twilight, and then, under cover of darkness, turn
them into a clearing in the scrub off the road,
where a sign of grass may be seen. But the
“bullockies” are better off than the horse-
teamsters, for bad chaff is sold by the pound and
corn is worth its weight in gold.
v * * *
Mitchell and I turned off the track at the rabbit-
proof fence, and made for the tank in the mulga.
We boiled the billy, and had some salt mutton
and damper. We were making back for Bourke,
having failed to get a cut in any of the sheds on
the Hungerford track. We sat under a clump of
mulga saplings, with our backs to the trunks, and
got out our pipes. Usually when the flies were
very bad on the track we had to keep twigs or
wild-turkey-tail feathers going in front of our
faces the whole time to keep the flies out of our
eyes ; and, when we camped, one would keep the
feather going while the other lit his pipe—then
the smoke would hold them off. But the flies
weren’t so bad in a good shade or in a darkened
hut. Mitchell’s pipe would have smoked out old
Nick ; it was an ancient string-bound meerschaum
and strong enough to kill a blackfellow.
Mitchell looked through his old pocket-book—
more by force of habit than anything else—and
turned up a circular from “ Tattersall’s.” And
that reminded him.
“Do you know what I’d do, Harry,” he said,
“if I won ‘Tattersall’s’ big sweep, or was to
come into fifty or a hundred thousand pounds, or,
better still, a million ? ”
“Nothing, I suppose,” I said; “except to get
away to Sydney or some cooler place than this.”
“I’ll tell you what I’d do,” said Mitchell, talk-
ing round his pipe, “ I’d build a Swagman’s Rest
right here.”
“ A Swagman’s Rest ? ”
“Yes. Right here, on this very God-forsaken
spot. I’d build a Swagman’s Rest, and call it the
Lost Souls’ Hotel, or the Sundowners’ Arms, or
the Half-way House to Hell, or some such name,
that would take the bushmen’s fancy. I’d have
it built on the best plans for coolness in a hot
country; bricks, and plenty of wide verandahs
with brick floors, and balconies, and shingles, in
the old Australian style. I wouldn’t have a
sheet of corrugated iron about the place. And I’d
have old-fashioned hinged sashes, with small
panes, and vines round ’em. They look cooler and
more homely aiid.- romantic than the glaring sort
that shove up.
“And I’d dig » tank or reservoir for surface
water as big as a lake, and bore for artesian water;
and I’d irrigate the ground and make it grow
horse-feed and fruit, and vegetables, too, if I had
to cart manure from Bourke. And every team-
ster’s bullock or horse, and every shearer’s hack
could burst itself free ; but I’d make travelling
stock pay —for it belongs to the squatters and
capitalists. All carriers could camp for one night
only. And I’d No, I wouldn't have any
flowers; they might remind some heart-broken
new-chum of the house where he was born, and
the mother whose heart he broke —and the father
whose grey hairs he brought down in sorrow to
the grave—and break him up altogether.”
“But what about the old-fashioned windows
and the vines ? ” I asked.
“Oh!” said Mitchell, “I forgot them. On
second thoughts, I think I would have some
flowers—and, maybe, a bit of ivy-green. The new-
chum might be trying to work out his own salva-
tion, and the sight of the roses and ivy would
show him that he hadn’t struck such a God-
forgotten country after all, and help strengthen
the hope for something better that’s in the heart
of every vagabond till he dies.”
Puff, puff, puff, slowly and reflectively.
“Until he dies,” repeated Mitchell. “And,
maybe,” he said, rousing himself, “ I’d have a
little room fixed up like a corner of a swell
restaurant, with silver and napkins on the table,
and I’d fix up a waiter, so that when a broken-
down University wreck came along he might feel,
for an hour or so, something like the man he used to
be. But I suppose,” Mitchell reflected, “he
wouldn’t feel completely his old self without a
lady sitting opposite to him. I might fix uj a
black gin for him, but I suppose he’d draw the
color line, —but that’s nonsense.
“ All teamsters and travellers could camp there
for one night only. I’d have shower-baths. But
I wouldn’t force any man to have a bath against
his will. They could sit down to a table and have
a feed off a tablecloth, and sleep in sheets, and
feel like they did before their old mothers died—
or before they ran away from home.”
“ Who ? The mothers ? ”
“Yes, in some cases,” said Mitchell. “And
I’d have a nice cool little summer-house, down
near the artificial lake, out of earshot of the
house, where the bullock-drivers could sit with
their pipes after tea and tell yarns, and talk in
their own language. And I’d haveboatson the lake,
too, in case an old Oxford or Cambridge man or
an old sailor came along. It might put years
on to his life to have a pull. You remem-
ber that old sailor we saw in charge of the
engine back there at the Government tank. You
saw how he had the engine ? Clean and bright as
a new pin—everything spick-and-span and ship-
shape, and his hut fixed up like a ship’s cabin. I
believe he thinks he’s at sea half his time, and
shoving her through it, instead of pumping muddy
water out of a hole in the baking scrubs for
starving stock. Or, maybe, he reckons he’s keep-
ing her afloat.”
“And would you have fish in this lake of
yours? ” I asked.
“Oh, yes!” said Mitchell. “And any ratty
old shepherd or sundowner that’s gone mad of
heat and loneliness—like the old codger we met
back yonder—he could sit by the lagoon in the
cool of the evening and fish to his heart’s content
with a string and a bent pin, and dream he’s play-
ing truant from school and fishing in the brook
near his native village in England about 50 years
ago. It would seem more real than fishing in the
dust as some mad old bushmen do.
“But you’d draw the line somewhere?” I
asked.
“ No, ” said Mitchell; “ not even at poets. I’d
try to cure them, too, with good, wholesome food
and plenty of physical exercise. The Lost Souls’
Hotel would be a refuge for men who’d been gaol-
birds once, as well as men who had been gentle-
men once, and for physical wrecks and ruined
drunkards as well as healthy, honest shearers.
The sick man would be kept till he recovered, or
died ; and the boozer suffering from recovery—l’d
keep him till he was on his legs again.”
“Then you’d have to have a doctor,” I said.
“ Yes,” said Mitchell, “ I’d fix that up all right.
I wouldn’t bother much about a respectable
medical practitioner from the city. I’d get a
medical wreck who’d had a brilliant career before
him once in England, and got into disgrace, and
cleared out to the colonies—a man who knows
what the d.t.’s is—a man who’s been through itall
and knows it all.
“Then you’d want a manager, or a clerk, or
secretary,” I suggested.
“ I suppose I would,” said Mitchell. “ I’ve got
no head for figures. I suppose I’d have to adver-
tise for him. If an applicant came with the
highest testimonials of character—and especially
if one was signed by a parson —I’d tell him to call
again next week ; and if a young man could prove
that he came of a good Christian family, and
went to church regularly, and sang in the choir,
and taught Sunday-school, I’d tell him that he
needn’t come again—that the vacancy was filled —•
for I couldn’t trust him. The man who’s been
extra religious and honest and hard-working in
his young days is most likely to go wrong after-
wards. I’d sooner trust some poor old devil of a
clerk who’d got into the hands of a woman or
racing men when he was young, and went wrong,
and served his term for embezzlement. Anyway,
I’d take him and give him another chance.”
“ And what about woman’s influence?” I asked.
“ Oh, I suppose there’d have to be a woman—
if only to keep the doctor on the line. I’d get a
woman with a past —one that hadn’t been any
better than she should have been. They’re
generally the most kind-hearted in the end. Say
an actress who’d come down in the world, or an
old opera-singer who’d lost her voice but not her
figure, and could still sing a little. A woman who
knows what trouble is. And I’d get a girl to
keep her company—a sort of housemaid with a
couple of black gins or half-castes to help her. I’d
get hold of some poor girl who’d been deceived
and deserted ; and a baby or two wouldn’t be an
objection—-the kids would amuse the chaps and
help to humanise the place.”
“ And what if the manageress fell in love with
the doctor ? ” I asked.
“Well, I couldn’t provide against love,” said
Mitchell. ‘‘ I fell in love myself more than once
—and I don’t suppose I’d have been any worse off
if I’d stayed in love—ah, well ! But suppose
she did fall in love with the doctor and marry
him ? Or suppose she fell in love with him and
didn’t marry him, for that matter ? And suppose
the girl fell in love with the secretary ? There
wouldn’t be any harm done ; it would only make
them more contented with the home, and bind
them to it. They’d be a happy family, and the
Lost Souls’ Hotel would be more cheerful and
homelike than ever.
“ But supposing they all fell in love with each
other and cleared-out ? ” I said.
“I don’t see what they’d have to clear-out for,”
said Mitchell. “But suppose they did ? There’s
more than one medical wreck in Australia, and
more than one woman with a past, and more than
one broken old clerk who went wrong and was
found out, and who steadied down in gaol, and
there’s more than one poor girl that’s been
deceived. I could easily replace ’em. And the
Lost Souls’ Hotel might be the means of patching
up many wrecked lives in that way, giving people
with pasts the chance of another future, so to
speak.”
“I suppose you’d have music and books and
pictures ? ” I said.
“Oh, yes,” said Mitchell; “but I wouldn’t
have any bitter or sex-problem books. They do
no good. Problems have been the curse of the
world ever since it started. I think one kindly,
cheerful character in a book does more good than
all the clever villains or romantic adventurers
ever invented. And I think a man ought to get
rid of his maudlin sentiments in private—or when
he’s drunk. It’s a pity that every writer couldn't
put all his bitterness into one book and then burn
it. No ; I’d have good, cheerful books of the best
and brightest sides of human nature —Charles
Dickens, and Mark Twain, and Bret Harte, and
those men. And I’d have all Australian pictures,
showing the brightest and best side of Australian
life. And I’d have all Australian songs. I
wouldn’t have “ Suwannee River,” or “Home
Sweet,” or “ Annie Laurie,” or any of those old
songs, sung at the Lost Souls’ Hotel. They’re
the cause of more heartbreak and drink and
suicide in the bush than anything else. And if
a jackeroo got up to sing “ Just Before the Battle
Mother,”or “Mother Bit me in me Sleep,” he’d
find it was just before the battle all right. He’d
have to go out and sleep in the scrub, where the
mosquitoes and bull-dog ants would bite him out
of his sleep. I hate the man who’s always whining
about his mother, through his nose, because, as a
rule, he never cared a rap for his old mother—nor
for anyone else—except his own paltry selfish
little self.
(Continued on 'page 36.)


A MEDICINE
FOR THE SPRING
, .... . - ii—d) ■=■ Q-cr Cr «
IT is well to remember that at this season, of all others, the human system
needs to be toned up and put in thorough condition to withstand the
change of the season.
BILE BEANS for BILIOUSNESS are the very best medicine that can
be taken for this purpose, as they cleanse and regulate the Liver, an
organ to which may be traced nearly all the minor ailments so many peonle
suffer from. If the Liver is not in thorough working order, the blood* is
impure, the circulation sluggish, the digestion impaired, the sleep disturbed,
and the complexion sallow. The consequence is that there is a lack of energy,
and the sufferer becomes a victim of “that tired feeling.” To be out of sorts
in the Spring is most trying, as many people know. If you are feeling “run
down ” and without any energy for work, take BILE BEANS for BILIOUS-
NESS, and they will put you in a condition that will withstand the changeable
Spring weather. Thus, by purifying the blood and stimulating the liver,
stomach and digestive organs to proper action, Bile Beans are an undoubted
cure for Biliousness, Indigestion, Constipation, Piles, Bad Blood, Pimples and
all Skin Eruptions, Headache, Debility, Female Weaknesses, Nervousness,
Ansemia,anda host of other ailments that owe their origin to defective bile flow,
assimilation and digestion.
Bile Beans are obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers, price
13|d. per box, or direct from the Australasian Depot, Bile Beans Manufacturing
Co., 39 Pitt-street, Sydney.
ILE
EM
A Free Sample,
The Proprietors have so
much faith in the efficacy
of Bile Beans that they
will forward a Sample
Box Free, if you send your
Name and Address and a
penny stamp (to cover
return postage) along with
this Coupon to the Bile
Bean Manufacturing Co.,
39 Pitt-st., Sydney.
B
* l,f
% c*
1
Ns
‘l*-
li
i
>
<£\
s
\
f ' V »*s
■-£»■--■■
so does
PEARS
“I’d have intellectual and elevating conversa-
tion for those that ”
“ Who’d take charge of that department?” I
inquired hurriedly.
“ Well,” reflected Mitchell, “I did have an idea
ot taking it on myself—for awhile, anyway ; but,
come to think of it, the doctor or the woman with
the past would have more experience ; but I could
1 >ok after that part of the business at a pinch.
Of course you’re not in a position to judge of my
ability in the intellectual line ; you see, I’ve had
no one to practise on since I’ve been with you.
But no matter. There’d be intellectual conversa-
ti >n for the benefit of black-sheep new-chums.
And any broken-down, actors that came along
could get up a play if they liked. It would
brighten up things and help elevate the bullock-
drivers and sundowners. I’d have a stage fixed
up and a bit of Scenery. I’d do all I could to
attract shearers to the place after shearing and
keep them from rushing to the next shanty with
their cheques, or down to Sydney to be cleaned-
out by girls. But I wouldn’t have any sex-
problems in the play. And I’d have the hero
squashed in the last act for a selfish sneak, and
marry the girl to the villain ; he’d be more likely
to make her happy in the end.”
“And what about the farm?” I asked. “I
suppose you’d get some expert from the agricul-
tural college to manage that.”
“No,” said Mitchell, “I’d get some poor
drought-ruined selector and put him in charge of
the vegetation. Only the worst of it is,” he re-
flected, “if you take a selector who has bullocked
all his life to raise crops on dusty, stony patches
in the scrubs, and put him on land where there’s
plenty of water and manure, and where he’s only
got to throw the seed on the ground and then
light his pipe and watch it grow—he’s apt to get
disheartened. But that’s human nature.
“ And, of course, I’d have to have a ‘charac-
ter’ about the place—a sort of identity and joker
to brighten-up things. I wouldn’t " get a man
who’d been happy and comfortable all his life ;
I’chget hold of some old codger whose wife had
nagged him till she died, and who’d been sold-off
many times, and run-in for drowning his sorrows,
and who started as an undertaker and failed at
that, and finally got a job pottering round—gar-
dener, or gate-keeper, or something in a lunatic
asylum. I’d get him. He’d most likely be a
humorist and a philosopher, and he’d help cheer
up the Lost Souls’ Hotel. I reckon the lost souls
would get very fond of him.”
“ And would you have drink at Lost Souls’ ? ” I
asked.
“ Yes,” saiu Mitchell, “I’d have the best beer
and spirits to be had. After tea I’d let every man
have just enough to make him feel comfortable
and happy, and as good and clever and innocent
and honest as any other man, but no more. But
if a poor devil came along in the horrors, with
every inch of him jumping, and snakes, and
green-eyed yahoos, and flaming nosed bunyips
chasing him, we’d take him in and give him
soothing-draughts, and nurse him, and watch him,
and keep giving him nips of good whisky.’
And, above all, we’d sympathise with him and tell
him that we were worse than he was many a time.
We wouldn’t tell him what a weak, selfish man he
was, or harp on his ruined life. We’d try to make
him out a good deal better morally than he really
was. It’s remorse that hurries most men to Hell,
especially in the bush. When a man firmly
believes he is a hopeless case, then there’s no hope
for him. But let him have his doubts and there’s
a chance. Make him believe that there are far
worse cases than his. And, above all, we’d try to
drive out of his head the cursed old popular idea
that it’s hard to reform, that a man’s got to fight
a hard battle with himself to get away from drink.
Pity drunkards can’t believe how easy it is. And
we’d put it to him straight whether his few hours
enjoyment were worth the clays he had to suffer
hell for it.”
“And, likely a» not,” I said, “when you’d put
him on his feet he’d take the nearest track to the
next shanty, and go on a howling spree, and come
back to the Lost Souls’ in a week, raving, and
worse than ever. What would you do then ? ”
“We’d take him in again, and build him up
some more ; and a third or fourth time, if neces-
sary. I believe in going right on with a thing
once I take it in hand. And if he didn’t turn up
after the last spree we’d look for him in the scrub,
and bring him in and let him die on a bed, and
make his death as comfortable as possible—l’ve
seen one man die on the ground, and found one
dead in the bush. We’d bury him under a gum,
and put ‘ Sacred to the Memory of a Man who
Died (Let Him R.1.P.) ’ over him. I’d have a nice
little graveyard, with gums for tombstones. And
I’d have some original epitaphs, I promise you.
“And how much gratitude would you expect to
get out of the Lost Souls’ Hotel ? ” I asked.
“None !” said Mitchell promptly. “It wouldn’t
bea Gratitude Discovery Syndicate. People might
say that the Lost Souls’ Hotel was a den for kidnap-
ping women and girls to be used as decoys for the
purpose of hoeussing and robbing bushmen, and
the law and retribution might come after me.
But I’d fight the thing out. Or they might
want to make a K.C.M.G. or a Joss of me
and worship me before they hanged me.
I reckon a philanthropist or reformer is
lucky if he escapes with a whole skin in the end,
let alone his character—but there ! —talking of
gratitude; it’s the fear of ingratitude that keeps
thousands from doing good. It’s just as paltry
and selfish and cowardly as any other fear that
curses the world. It’s rather more selfish than
most fears, in fact. Take the fear of being
thought _a coward, or being considered eccentric,
or conceited, or affected, or too good, or too bad,
for instance. The man that’s always canting
about the world’s ingratitude has no gratitude
owing to him as a rule—generally the reverse.
He ought to be grateful to the world for being let
live. He broods over the world’s ingratitude
until he gets to be a cynic. He sees the world
like the outside of a window, as it were, with the
blind drawn and the dead, cold moonlight shining
on it, and he passes on with a sour face ; whereas,
if he took the trouble to step inside, he’d most
likely find a room full of ruddy fire-light, and
sympathy and cheerfulness, and kindness and love
and gratitude. Sometimes, when he’s right down
on his uppers, and forced to go amongst people
and hustle for bread, he gets a lot of surprises at
the amount of kindness he keeps running against
in the world —and in places where he’d never have
expected to find it. But I’m getting maudlin.”
“And you’ve forgot all about the Lost Souls’
Hotel,” I said.
“No, I haven't,” said Mitchell; “I’d fix that
up all right. As soon as I’d got things going
smoothly under a man I could trust, I’d tie-up
every penny I had for the benefit of the concern,
get some ‘ white men ’ for trustees, and take the
track again. I’m getting too old to stay long in
one place. I’m a lost soul that has always got
along better in another place. I’m so used to the
track that if I was shut up in a house I’d get
walking up and down in my room of nights and
disturb the folk ; and, besides, I’d feel lost and
light-shouldered without the swag.”
‘ ‘ So you’d put all your money in the concern ? ”
“Yes —except a pound or two to go on the
track with, for, who knows, I might come along
there dusty and tired, and ragged and hard-up
and old, some day, and be very glad of a night’s
rest at the Lost Souls’ Hotel. But I wouldn’t
let on that I was old Mitchell, the millionaire,
who founded Lost Souls’. They might be too
officious, and I hate fuss. . . . But it’s time to
take the track, Harry.”
* » * •
There came a cool breeze with sunset; we stood
up stiffly, shouldered our swags and tucker-bags,
and pushed on to the next water.
HENRY LAWSON.
Forget!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
.Tusfc so ! it is not wise to speak
Of deeds like his except to blame.
Enough to say, “ All flesh is weak,”
And so surrender him to shame.
Yet, let us give the man his due;
That much, at least, the truth demands.
If all they say of him be true,
He was as clay, the Potter’s hands
Moulds thus or thus —unto the will,
A pitcher now, and now a jar,
Not caring that the clay might fill
A noblier, seemlier purpose far.
His creed (no new one) seems to show
How vain are words against the fresh
Assaults of sense ; he held, you know,
The soul supreme ; held that the flesh
Subserves the soul; that year by year
Our primal passions lose their fire ;
The ape and savage disappear
As man ambitions something higher.
And 10, to prove his words unwise,
To show the weakness in his mail,
She came with her dark, glorious eyes
And beauty passionate and pale.
And, yet, I think that at the start
She had no thought to wile or win,
But only played upon his heart
As one may play a violin.
You know the touch—the listless hands
That move and pause . . . no reason why . . .
Till suddenly the whole soul stands
Alarmed at some wild spirit cry. . „
And then—the wrought and eager a i A,
The ears alert to hear again,
The eyes that search soul-d> pths to find
The meaning of that vagrant strain ;
And finding—ah, then comes the awe,
The triumph, and the dee,>, benign
God’s joy that God felt whe i He saw
His suns and stars and systems shine.
And when he said, “ I love yc t— love
The ground you tread on and he blue
Bright, arching skies that bend i • >ve
Your head,” she said, “And I jve you.”
His love was like a pleading thing
That needs must crawl and crouo._ •v’d
While hers, bent downward, like a king
That stoops to lift a prostrate slave.
He had a wife, a creature stirred
By narrow instincts, whose pale life
Seemed bloodless, and in time she heard
How things were—then . . . What said the wife?
What said the wife?—no word to thwart
This fine, poetic love of theirs ;
She only came when least they thought,
And, tip-toe, watched them unawares ;
And gathered this and that—this phrase,
That ribbon . . . and the scented note
Wherein, “Without you, love, the days
Drag wearily ...” the woman wrote ;
And things, like these, that mean so much
'Twixt heart and heart, but lose their curie
And roseleaf sweetness at the touch
That makes them naked to the world.
Their shame was great, and great their fall ;
Yet this, I hold, was greater crime—
To drag Love from its pedestal
And trail it in the public slime.
For, right or wrong, they had done naught—
Naught else than, by their fate, to prove
To this wise age of cynic thought
That some are fools enough to love.
You know the rest . . . The simpering judg ■
The lawyers with loose tongues, that ran
Maliciously, and seemed to grudge
A shred of honor to the man. . . .
And then what followed: How he died ;
How she died, too ; how jest and mirth
Were stayed by that twin suicide
That lifted their romance from earth.
And so the last word we can say
To loves like this, that sink and set,
As suns set on a broken day,
Is that best word of all— Forget!
RODERIC QUINN.
According to a speaker at a recent Reform
League meeting, the Tas. politician rules solely by
virtue of his skill as a log-roller. Public works,
such as roads and railways, are absolutely forced
upon constituents by aspiring politicians. In
common gratitude they vote for the man who gets
them the road or the railway they don’t particu-
larly want, but which they are not so fool-honest
as to refuse. Instances were quoted; one of a
£2OOO bridge built a year or two ago, the ap-
proaches thereto having never been completed ;
another of a £3OOO railway survey to a place that
has no more produce to send to market than a team
of six bullocks, working one day a week, could
easily negotiate. Considering that the Tas. legis-
lator is only paid £lOO a year, and that it must
cost fully that amount to extend the usual liquid
courtesies to heads of departments, the “honor ”
of legislating appears to have attained an enor-
mous value in the Flyspeck.


For All the Family
Our Old Family Medicine. Good for Father, Mother, and the Children.
Purifies, Builds Up. Experience of a Trained Nurse.
■g"
LP
m
4 5J*
Mrs. John Evans, of Subiaco,
West Australia, sends this pho-
tograph of herself and children,
and says:
“ Whenever any member of
my family becomes pale, weak,
debilitated, or suffers from im-
pure blood, I always fall back on
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and Ayer’s
Pills. I give the Pills to keep
the bowels . all right and the
Sarsaparilla to make the blood
pure and strengthen the nerves.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla carried my
husband through a bad attack
of influenza, and later it also
cured him of rheumatism. I
have often given it to my chil-
dren when they have lost their
appetite and become listless. I
practise as a nurse, and fre-
quently recommend Ayer’s Sarsaparilla for the very tryingclimate of this country.
And I can truthfully say that both nurse and patient are always greatly pleased.”
“The World’s Greatest Family S^edicine.”
This testimonial should convince every one who reads it of the great value
of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla as a blood-purifier and general tonic. Mrs. Evans
speaks as a mother, ever watchful over the health of those most dear to her.
She also speaks as a professional nurse, one who knows just what effect these
medicines have on those who are suffering.
Be sure you get Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. There are a great many substitute
Sarsaparillas on the market that will disappoint you. Avoid imitations.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
A Great Blood-purifier and Blood-builder
Take Ayer’s Pills with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. One aids the otner.
Prepared by DU. J. C. AYEB & CO.. Lowell, Maes., U. 8. A.
27
YEARS’ SUCCESS
mMm
pL
the UNIVERSAL REMEDY fqb^^
Coughs, Colds, 1
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Hoarseness, &c.
has made
OYrtwtdae
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY TO EVERYBODY.
Important Notice:
SUBS TITUTfOIji. There are so many imitations
of this successful , and therefore papular, remedy that
it is of the utmost importance you should use the
word “ QWBRIDGE ' ’ whm buying Lung Tonie,
and TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
Prepared &#-.
T. QWBRIDGE, M.P.S., Chemist, Hull.
Solti everywhere in bofcttss, at Is. lid.
2s. 9d., 4s. 6 d., & 11s., t»y all
Colonial Medicine VeodorsT^
jgsAHky/px&ir
COPYRIGBS.
*
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines'(appropriately packed') forwarded over tike Commonwealth ana to the East
THE BROWN=SEQUARD TRE?tifflmfT A SPECIALTY.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
E|»S
Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORITH A
CrUIjSUSA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud os' Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieinein
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND-
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is and 2s 9d each.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK;
Price, 4s. 6d
LIST OF CONTENTS.
At Yarbawonga ...
His Hair
(Strawberry : A Love Story
The Patient’s Hand-8e11...
The Correspondence of a
Little Dressmaker
A Martyr of No Account...
Nick Vedder’s Gold
Products
An Error in Administration
A Bridal Party and a Dog
Broken China
The Dispersion of Mrs.
Black
White-When - He’s-Wanted
The Tramp
The Man who saw a Moa ...
From the Log of the Out-
ward Bound
On Our Selection
A Box of Dead Roses
A Stripe for Trooper Casey
Swamp-Swallowed
Bailiffs I Have Met
Three Cups of Tea
Silhouettes : My Horse ...
Hanging and Hell
The School at Sergeant’s
The Burial Service of a
Musician
Selling Scripture Texts...
“ Colonial Experience”...
The Ferryman
Barmy Barker’s Boots ...
The Benefit of Clergy ...
F. S. Delmer
Mabel Holmes
J. J. Poynion
F.M.W.G.
Maud Light
, C. H. Souter
A. Conway.
A. Rose-Soley
A. C. M‘Cay
“ Omega ”
“ Hoiya”
“Robin Studholme ”
A. B. Paterson
Barbara Baynton
“ WeJca ”
J. H. Greene
Arthur H. Davis
Ethel MiUs
Roderic Quinn
Alex. Montgomery
Victor J. Daley
F. Rollett
“A. Chee”
Phil. Mowbray
‘ ‘ Ponte ”
“McG.”
“ Boiling Billy ”
J.P.
L. De Baliker
E. S. Sorenson
Alex. Allen
he Bulletin Reciter; Price ss.
LIST OP CONTENTS:
The How -We - Beat - the -
Favourite Affliction ...
GiO/,Fours
Don’t Let the Moth Get Tn
The Winner of the Squat-
ters’ Cup
The Three Roads ...
Christmas Belle
My Mate Bill
What the Bottle Said ...
A German Lament
The Anarchist
The Fall of Patrick
Dooley
The Jester of the Damned
The Hairy Man of Kooba-
watha
A Big “Bust”
A Tight Corner
The Road to Wyoming
Jim Jamieson, of Tringabar
The Mali.ee Fire
Among the Palms
Dreams and Deeds
Boko
“ Dunno ! ” *"
The Fat Man and the War
The Shoe
The Cocky’s Handy Man
Bashful Gleeson
Skkeia
The Currency Lass
The Confidential Jockey
How We Won the Ribbon
A Twisted Idyl
The Tugs of Simpsonville
The Sick Cab-Rider
Tambarooba
Father Riley’s Horse
O’Toole and M‘Sharry ...
Faces in the Street
The Bush Missionary
The Last Bullet
The Honeymoon Train ...
The Murder-Night
A Scotch*Night
M. M. O'Donnell
“ McG .”
T. A. Wilson
Frank Bellman
Victor J. Daley
“ John Carew”
G. H. Gibson
E. J. Brady
“ Bended ”
Arthur H. Adams
E. J. Dempsey
J. 11. Greene
te Tom Freeman ”
Edward Dyson
C. H. Souter
Evelyn Threlfall
“ Pan ”
C. H. Souter
“ Hesketh ”
E. J. Dempsey
“ Curleia”
Bernard Espinasse
“ Magnet ”
J. M. L.
“ Ben Sun ”
Edward Dyson
Barer oft Boake
Roderic (fainn
Francis Kenha
Will FI. Ogilvie
Frank Morton
W. T. Goodge
Edmund Fisher
“ Dendee”
A. J>. Paterson
Thomas E. Spencer
Henry Lawson
W. T. Goodge
John Farrell
A. G. Stephens
Hugh M l Crae
Will H. Ogilvie
Sole Distributing Agents-
Edwards, Dunlop & Co,, Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane .
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
gratkfulcomforting.
COCOA
breakfast supper.
DON’T MISS THIS
REMEDIES Will CURE YOU.
So CONFIDENT are we of this' will send'to“any
sufferer a TRIAL COURSE (Free (if abide
f<£E your ‘ ritimatectjaE
... . . ®S TAN,c INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.


Asbestos Boiler Cowering
. . . Saves 25 Pee Cent, in Fuel ...
PACKED WET, Ready for Use, in 3cwt. Casks, 7/-, 8/-, 9/- cwt.
PACKED DRY, in Bags, each lcwt., 12/-, 14/-, 16/- cwt.
Estimates given for Covering Boilers and
Steam Pipes.
OUR ASBESTOS BOILER COVER
Saves 25 per cent, in Fuel.
PERDRIAU and COHiPANY,
Telephone. — 4w^St! —268-270 George Street, Sydney
no
YEARS DYEIIffQ
FOii. THE LADIES.
W-. c. ZEnLIDIRIIDGKEJ & GO
DYERS & GLEANERS,
40 YOJtSK STEEiT, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall);
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
32
& 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
For all Services kept in Stock.
for O ataloS'U.®*
Pocket-Knives
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
•HARK.
J. & J. MAXFJELD. ProtTvS"., SHEFFIELD
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York-St.
SYDNEY.
4'.SO AT
"THE BLOCK,”
Collins-st.. MELBOURNE.
m i
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections, x
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
iheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
AGNESSA,
wmm,
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN
CAN OBTAIN
IT
0
fieS'
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- & 2/6.
BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND'
Felton, Grimwade
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
& Co.,
&
Portable Drills, Radial Drills, Drill Presses, Lathes, Planing
Machines, Slotting Machines, Punch and Shears, Steam
Hammers, Pipe Screwing Machines, Metal Saws, etc., etc.
WOOD WORKING MACHINERY.
Ingersoll-Sergeant Rock Drills and Air Compressors, Knowles Pumps, Gates
Rockbreakers, Roger Rolls, Vertical and Horizontal Engines and Boilers of
all kinds, Engineers’ Fittings and Mine and Mill Supplies.
-WRITE FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS.
60 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
533 Collins Street,
Fremont Street,
,
San Francisco.
- '■ •*. - ■■
Mmm
i
mmmSS:
Rescued
From Drink
by a new discovery, odorless and tasteles \ w ich any lady can
give in tea, coffee or food. It does its work so silently and surly
that while the devoted wife, sister or daughter looks on, the
drunkard is reclaimed even against his will and without hb
knowledge or co-operation. Send name and address to THE
EUCRASY CO., 62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W., and
they will send you booklet and particulars free,
N. P. EREGOfi!) SCO
Machinery Merchants,
Melbourne & Sydney.
HAVE IN STOCK-
Blake's Steam Pumps.
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery.
Mundy’s Hoisting Engines-
Empire Oo.’s Laundry Machinery-
American “All Steel” Pulleys-
Harris Champion ” Lubricating Oils.
Mason Reducing Valves-
Ludlow Sluice Valves-
Korting’s Injectors and Ejectors-
Tanite Emery Wheels.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
' CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS. PRICE, 4s. 6d. ; POSTAGE 6d.
Sole Distributing Agents-*-
Ldivards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
M. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole A.gents for-
Solarine Metal Polish
Biliett’s Patent Tuyere
“Vitaphone” Talking Machine
Dodge Standard Wood Split
Pulley
Atlas Pipe Wrench
“Abbott ” Germ Proof Filter
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 101 A
Mr* Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
‘Sts*
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite Sfc.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trains. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
