

McE WAN’S ALE.
RUM.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—-FOB
M inin g and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
h
Send for
Prices and
Particulars.
Descriptive
Catalogues
on
Application.
most
Up-to-Date
Machines
ĥ
Sawing & Woodworking Machinery,
Vertical & Horizontal Band
“ G-rana Frix/’Paria, 1900.
HOLD THE WORLD’S RECORD
(HIGHEST POSSIBLE AWARD.) >
SOLE AGENTS ;
GIBSON, BATTLE & GO., m Pitt street, SYDNEY.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried in vest
pocket and blown out to life-size (causes roars of
laughter), Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket, Book of
Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin and Card
Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character), The Mafeking Grub (or
nerve-strengthener), and, last of all, that side-splitting
Look and Laugh Glass, Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. fid.
Box 3, G.P.O.', Haymarket.
X
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-street, SYDNEY.
Sore Byes! Blight!
USED 300 YEARS.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
Aleuer fails. Restores Eyelashes.
HAD FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT.”
Ask your Chemist for this little book.
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
HELIDON SPA.
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd., A-genta, Sydney.
ħ
h
389
HOBART.
—jesfs;—
(jadley’s Orient (jotel.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Grade).
J. A. TURNER - - Proprietor.
7%
Dr. J. W. GIBBS’
... Electric Massage Rollers . .
For use on Face and Body.
For NERVOUS HEADACHES,
NEURALGIA and RHEUMATISM
—a specific. Removes Wrinkles.
Gold, 21/- Silver, 16/-
Post Free. Pamphlets Free.
AMERICAN AGENCY COMPANY,
Box 440/G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
NFOLD’S S.A. WINES
S 5 a
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELT SMC
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2J 3 3| 4 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
-/7 -/9 -m v- 1/2 1/6 IAI 2/8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 IAO 2/2 2/11 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
KHSWAN
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
'< Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
is EDOTI SWAM
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot— Central Buildings, Edward-st., Brisbane.
facile princeps.
SEMPER IDEM
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
ĥ
ħ
“MENTHOLINE”
THE ONLY SURE CURE FOR (Registered)
ALL THROAT AND CHEST DISEASES (Coughs, Colds,
Influenza, Quinsy, Asthma and Catarrh).
. _ Smajl Bottles, 1/- ; Large Bottles, 2/6 each ; posted to any part of Australia.
Sample Bottles sent Free all over the Commonwealth on receipt of one penny stamp to
& SONS, 214 Queen Street, Melbourne.
PROOF
h
Head Office:
10 BLICH ST., SYDNEY
ĥ
The Finest
in the
World.
lest Grade Aromatic
Obtainable in Plugs and Pocket Tins.
TOBACCO.
WHEN buying a KEROSENE GAS STOVE insist
* * on getting a noiseless
ħ
JUPITER
The Very Latest
Invention.
Burns Noiselessly,
Without Smell
or Smoke,
Perfectly Safe.
Obtained First Prize
wherever exhibited.
Stocked by all Leading Hardware Merchants and
Storekeepers.
Sole Agents for Australasia —
Nelson and Robertson,
17 LQFTUS ST.. SYDNEY.
h
A NICE PRESENT.
The New Combination PIN-
CUSHION, THIMBLE & REEL
HOLDER, nickel plated, plush
top. Clamps on to any table
by means of a spring. Price,
only 2s. ; post free.
Star Novelty Company,
229-231 Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
The Bulletin Reciter has been taken by
Bill and Jim straight to their warm hearts, and
already its contents have gladdened thousands of
audiences all over Australia. Most of the best
and most famous Bulletin recitation-pieces are
included in this fine collection—price ss. post-
free from Bulletin office.
The Bulletin
Vol 23. —No. 1164. j
[Saturday, June 7, 1902.
Registered at the G-eneral Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE LATEST BOOKS AT__—ml.
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Griffith (George), The Missionary, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, postage 6d
Hornung, Shadow of the Rope, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d
Sergeant, The Body of Death, 2s 6d, p. 6d.
Harland, Lady Paramount, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p._6d.
Life of Charles Darwin (cheap edition), 3s, p. 6d.
Rattray, Sweetmeat Making at Home, 2s 6d, p. 4d.
Etiquette for Women, by One of the Aristocracy, Is, p. 3d
Travers (Graham), Way of Escape, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d
Hume (Fergus), Mother of Emeralds, 2s 6d, p. 6d.
Kenealy, Love of Richard Herrick, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Pemberton, I Crown Thee King, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Wharton, Valley of Decision, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Cleeve, As the Twig is Bent, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Meade, Through Peril for a Wife, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
Now Published.
Bushman and Buccaneer *
HARRY MORANT:
HIS ’VENTURES and VERSES.
By Frank Renar.
<2*
PRICE--ONE SHILLING.
A Story op the Life and Unhappy End op
“The Breaker’’—with his Verses and
Correspondence: Copiously Illustrated.
It gives the first authentic account of the operations
of the Bushveldt Carbineers, arid of the Court-
Martial on Movant and others.
B Buman Document of Intense Interest!
Wholesale from EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE.
Retail from all Booksellers, and Post-Free from
“ The Bulletin ” Office Is. 2d.
Hudson’s Eumenthoi Jujubes
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
m
osSir-'
IN TINS
(KEGrISTEKED).
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
I Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR. POST/FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR
G. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE ; and FELTON, GRIMVVADE & CO., MELBOURNE, AGENTS.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsias
THE RED PAGE.
THE SHARING OF THE EARTH.
(After Schiller.)
“Take hence the world!” cried Zeus from his
heaven
Unto mankind ; ‘‘‘take it, yours shall it he.
To you the earth as heritage is given ;
But, sharing , dwell in amity.”
In haste, whoso had hands, thereon fell, slaving
To win his share ; so labored young and old.
The husbandman seized fields of gold corn waving,
The young squire hunted deer in wood and wold.
The merchant rose, his warehouse goods securing',
The abbot chose his share of last-year wine ;
The king stopped roads and bridges, with assuring,
Saying: “ The tithes and tolls are mine.”
Too late, when the division all was over
The poet came; he came from lands abroad ;
Alas ! no vacant place could he discover,
For all things now possessed their lord.
‘ Alas ! am I the only one remaining,
Forgotten quite ? I, truest son, alone ? ”
Loudly unto the skies went his complaining ;
He cast himself before Jove’s throne.
“ Since you, in lands of dreams and fields Klysian
Roved far, ’ quoth Jove, ‘‘ do not come hlgming me.
Where were you loit’ring when they made division ? ”
Then said the poet: “I was here by thee.
“Mine eyes were fastened on thy face sun-beam-
ing;
Harmonious Heaven held enchained mine ear;
Pardon the spirit, .so enchanted dreaming,
That he has lost earth’s share while wond’ring
here ! ”
“ Whats to he done'!” said Zeus ; “the world is
given,
The harvest, hunt, the fields, are mine no more.
If you will dwell with me up here in Heaven,
Oft as you come you'll find an open door. ”
M.L.
AHAU.
A Desert—And Why?
WHY is three-parts of Australia at pre-
sent a desert ? ” is glibly explained—
“ Because of the prolonged drought.”
But the real explanation is—■“ Be-
cause we Australians are about the most listless,
indifferent crowd of loafers-upon-Providence that
ever set up to be an independent community and
to manage our own affairs.” We have instituted
Eight-hours Day, the Melbourne Cup, and Hospi-
tal Saturday, and have neglected, and continue to
neglect, to complete the work that Nature has
more than three-parts done to make the land
FIG. I.
Showing the lower courses of the Diamantina River and Cooper Creek.
independent of droughts. Compared to us, the
ancient Egyptians, the Assyrians, Persians,
not to mention the dwellers in the cities
of the plain ; the Aztecs and the pre-
historic nations that inhabited the Pacific
when the land of our ancestors was a frozen
glacier, were communities of wise and far-
seeing individuals, as superior to us in brains as
we pride ourselves in being above the aborigines
of this suffering continent. The proof of this
by no means novel statement lies in the way we
have utilised the country we have made our own.
At present, just 114 years after our coming here,
three-parts of Australia is a wilderness of sand
and desolation. If this was the original state of
these afflicted portions it would be bad enough,
but it is not. Hundreds of thousands of sheep and
cattle have been sacrificed, valuable lives lost, many
people ruined, and uncounted money spent, simply
because we have been too tired to trouble about it.
The ordinary Australian’s idea of a model country
is, that Nature should do everything. If she pro-
vides a good harbour he builds his bumpy along-
side it, and, after a year or two’s residence there,
begins to swear that he made it. Then he elects
people to govern him, who swear that Nature
always intended Australia to suffer from the effects
of drought, and when things get very bad appoints
a Royal Commission to remonstrate -with Nature.
Now Nature—to use the term that best describes
the governing power of the universe—never makes
a mistake, although we often, especially if we are
leading legislators, imagine that if we had the
ordering of things we should do it much better.
Nature has been very observant in what she
has done for Australia, and has provided the
means by which these chronic droughts can come
to be regarded as mere episodes. But then
Nature works for aeons and the leading legislator
only for the next election, so it is easily conceiv-
able how the latter does not understand her
scheme.
Nature has covered the interior of this continent,
vast as it is, with a network of natural canals that
would cost untold millions to construct artificially.
Moreover, at certain periods she sends down a
deluge of rain to fill them, and, having done the
main part of the work, she asks man just to keep
the water there —and man does not attempt to do
anything of the kind. As a rule, he sits down
and contemplates (the Australian is a good hand
at contemplating), and comes to the conclusion
that if he had run the show he would have made
a better job of it. The incalculable benefit that
would result from conserving the water in the
natural channels is no new idea born of the present
desolation, it has been pressed on the attention of
the legislatures for long years. The present writer
for one recalls writing articles on the subject 20
years ago. Nor is it a question of locking the
Darling and the Murray tributaries only, for
these natural conduits extend all over the interior,
and are, in fact, special features of the physical
formation of Australia.
To show the average reader, who perhaps does not
know, the exact way in which these ana-branches or
billabongs, whichever they may be called, distri-
bute themselves over the country, a map of the
lower Diamantina and Cooper Creek is appended,
showing Queensland and S. Australian rivers which
at times discharge huge volumes of water into Lake
Eyre. Lt is no fancy sketch, it is an official sur-
vey, and only the main features are marked ; the
lesser ramifications, embracing a far greater area,
are not in evidence. It will be seen by this
diagram how Nature provides extra channels to
carry off the flood-water that would otherwise
overflow the country, and lias left them as gifts to
man to fertilise the thirsty districts in Aus-
tralia. It will be seen how, by impound-
ing the flood-water, we should preserve it not
in ope channel only, but in many channels, and
that by the aid of only one lock, weir, or dam in
the main channel. Further, the overflow created
would supply lagoons and lakes lying far back
from the river and only filled by natural causes
once in every three or four years.
This great system of distributing the channels
of a river over a large area of country exists in the
whole of the level interior, although, perhaps, not
to such an excessive degree as shown in this plan
of a mucb-billabonged country. The map serves
admirably to; show the system that Nature, the
glorious engineer, works on. Fancy what this, at
present arid desert, would be like if some of the
water that disappears into the mysterious recesses
of Lake Eyre were impounded and spread out far
and wide !
And Nature has other means of working. When
she makes a river through level country, where she
would suggest that man should make provision for
retaining water for a season of drought, she does
not cut the channel in a straight line, but lets it
wind and twist all over the country, as is evident
in the second diagram of a portion of the course of
the Finite River, S.A. How much more land can
he thereby fertilised may be easily spen.
Nothing is ever lost in Nature. That is an
accepted and true axiom, and in no ease truer
than that of conserved surface-water. Given
enough of it over a wide stretch of country, and
the evaporation returns in the shape of dew, of
tempered nights, of foliage shade. A bare, heated
expanse of country induces an arid climate as
FIG. II.
surely as green, shaded regions induce moisture.
But, not content with letting the surface-water
run to waste, we have turned destruction loose on
the indigenous herbage, and the starving sheep
and rabbits have torn up the* valuable fodder-
plants by the roots.
We lament the absence of a backbone of lofty
ranges in the continent, and yet Nature has com-
pensated for their absence by designing a grand
system of natural canals, which we refuse to take
advantage of. Instead we spend our money,
borrowed and otherwise, upon developing the
cities, and so have taken away from our growing
youth the chances and ambitions of country life
and made them office-seekers and hangers-on to
clerical billets. They don’t start for themselves
on the land because there is nothing in it but
bard work and ruin, and all the money is spent in
the town in palatial government offices, statues,
celebrations, and one gorgeous folly and another.
For instance, there is proposed a bridge across
Sydney harbor and a weir across thq Dar-
ling. Which would be the better for the
State ? That the money should fye spent in lock-
ing the Darling and affording profitable occupa-
tion for thousands, or that the citizens of North
Sydney should have easier access to the city ?
ERNEST FAVENC.
Concerning Originality.
The.challenge as to the originality of Morant’s
most poetic verse is answered by Mr. John
McMahon, Fitzoy, Vic.
As to thought of Morant’s song—“ Love me little, love
me long.” It was originally printed in 1569 in ballad
form, oh a broadside in black letter, and is anonymous.
It appears on page 22 of “The Book of English Songs,
from the 16th to the 19th Century,” published in London
at the office of the National Illustrated Library, 198
Strand, April 1851.
But Mr. McMahon is “barking up a wrong
tree.” What he' refers to is the original song,
which .Morant answered with his “Love me much
a/little while.” “The Breaker” still holds the
credit of his idea.
This suggests again the query how much can be
original nowadays, how much has been left un-
said ? Thackeray’s Becky Sharpe, with her cry—
How easy to be good on £lO,OOO a year !
seems in all truth modern and new enough. But
it is precisely the thought in Plato’s Republic—
It is this consideration, as I hold, that makes riches
valuable . . . they contribute greatly to our preserva-
tion from even unintentional deceit or falsehood.
Shakespeare’s famous figure—
All the world’s a stage
And all the men and women merely players,
is, almost word for word, identical with an epigram
of Palladas, a, writer of the Greek Decadence—
This Life a theatre we well may call,
Where every actor must perform with art,
Or laugh it through, and make a farce of all,
Or learn to bear with grace his tragic part.
Shakespeare was so glorious a looter—a regular
Francis Drake of literature—that in his case theft
may be justly surmised, especially as just about
his time the famous 1600 edition of the Greek
Anthology, which included this epigram, was the
talk of European literary circles. But in judging as
to the probabilities of coincidence or theft, allow-
ance must always be made for the obviousness or
otherwise of a thought. G .eat thoughts may
spring up independently in different mind-gar-
dens, especially if they merely embody in an
epigram a familiar truth. Coincidence of phrase
is generally, however, fairly good evidence of
piracy. If Balbus builded a thought in certain
words B.c. 100, and Barnes puts it out in some-
what the same words in A.D. 1900, the case looks
bad for Barnes ; but the same thought* might recur
and recur each century, and always independently.
——*
Petronius : There are now four vacancies in the
Board of Trustees of the Public Library, Museums,
and National Gallery of Victoria, caused by the
deaths of Prof. Morris and H. L. Tucker, and by
the timely retirement of Andrew Harper and
Prof. A. S. Way. The trustees’ are elected by
Parliament, and politicians generally elect them-
selves., on the ground that they are best capable
of mismanaging affairs, having had so much
practical experience. So there is threatened
the appointment of F. C. Mason, Henry
Wrixon, Theodore Fink, and Doctor Maloney.
It has long been the custom to elect the Speaker
to a position on the Board, hence we have the
eminent experts Graham Berry, William Zeal
and Tommy Bent, with the promised advent
of F. C. Mason, gentlemen equally distinguished
in art, literature and science. The next cry is
that the “Labour Interest” must be represented
As it happens, Bromley, the Labor leader, is
already on the Board ; but his partisans claim that
he is a “Fine Arts” representative, because in his
working days he was a japanner and painter.
So the Labor par ty demands the election of the
“little Doctor.” Soon we may expect the appoint-
ment of Sir Fred. Sargood, as a “Freetrade”
representative, J. T. P, Caulfield as “drunks’
expert and Sir Malcolm M'Eacharn as the
“Piebald Australia” representative, and experts
on all subjects except the subjects that should be
represented. Among all the present trustees
there is not a man who has a wide knowledge of
modern literature. What we need is another
representative of Art (Australian Art is barely
recognised in the National Gallery), a representa-
tive of Modern Literature (Australian and Foreign
Literature is ditto in the Public Library), and a
representative of Science. Let political jobbery
be confined to its own spheres. But Trenwith,
who assigns the positions, would hardly dare to
pass over a brother politician. So we must suffer
for the present.
d*
Major-General Hutton in a book, “The De-
fence and Defensive Power of Australia” (Angus
and Robertson, Sydney and Melbourne), is a
General in a strange country of which he has no
maps. There is doubtless a good deal of valuable
military information in the work, but the style,
and the dragging-in, by the long hair of their
heads, of half-a-dozen poets to supply quotation
padding shows the jejune writer. For instance,
to illustrate his views on “ the tactical and strate-
gical power of mounted troops in war ” in one
chapter, author Hutton finds it necessary to quote
Longfellow, Walter Scott, Kipling, and Bayly;
and none of the quotations has any real apposite-
ness. One doesn’t expect grace from a military
writer; the best of models would be probably
Napoleon, of whose articles Madame de Stael
wrote :
On voyait qu’il aurait voulu mettre dans ce qu’il
ecrivait des coups au li-u de mots.
But a General putting on the small frills of vapid
poetry is too suggestive of Lord Yarmouth in
ballet skirts. And we had thought that the Major-
General had such a gift of language !
Some correspondents.—-
Thus T.R.'B. : P.F.R.’s statement ot the case fo_ Im-
perialism (Red Page 17/5/’o2’) is fair and moderate, and
goes to. the root of the difference between those who
believe in.the Imperial connection and those who don’t.
But it isn’t convincing. He thinks that we shall more
easily govern “so that there shall be no human waste,”
that “ all are more likely to find scope for their faculties,”
if we remain “ part of a big nation.” Even if this opinion
be right, it doesn’t affect the question, for we are not
now, except in name, and except (one must now add), so
far as risks of war are concerned, part of a big nation.
We have no share in Imperial Government : our
electors and our statesmen have no responsibility
for Imperial policy, to give them caution and serious-
ness : we have no more commerce, intellectual or material,
with England, than we might and would have as an inde-
pendent Republic. We have all the limitations and dis-
advantages of smallness, and none of the compensating
blessings—such as they are—of bigness. But, anyhow,
why should we govern ourselves “ with less human
waste,” or more readily “ find scope for our faculties” as
part of a big, than as the whole of a small nation? One
would expect the reverse to be true, seeing that the his-
tory, the existing conditions, and the ideals, of the nation,
of w’hich we are nominally a part, are, and must be, to a
large extent quite alien from our own. How can it be
any advantage to Australia, in working out her national
destiny, to be bound up with a nation which,
with all its virtues and its. high traditions, is
still, and must remain, part of the Old World
system, inextricably mixed up with the tangles of
European dipl >m:iey ; cursed by the infernal burdens of
militarism, and hampered by absurdities like the Mon-
archy and the Peerage ? The only hope for Australia is to
keep her finger out of old-world pies ; to hate militarism
as she hates, or ought to hate, the devil ; to keep herself
free from .political institutions, like the Monarchy, which
must excite the contempt, open or silent, of every rea-
sonable human being ; to keep steadily before herself the
ideals of peace, of enlightenment, of honest prosperity.
The more we have to do with the politics of the old world,
the less we shall have to do with these ideals. No man
need forfeit his reverence for what is great and good in
English life and history, because he believes that the deve-
lopment of Australia must run on different lines. If
“all are to find scope for their faculties,” if we are “to
govern without human waste,” Australia must devote
herself. to the solution of industrial and social questions,
to the improvement of her waste and barren territory ; to
the sound and serious education of her people. If she
does this, she will have neither time nor money for fooling
with other people’s wars, or with schemes of Imperial
Federation.


M DOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUSDIP.
M‘DOXJaA.LL BROS., 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
AGENTS:
N.Z. L. & M.A. Co., Ltd., Australia and New Zealand : Strachan, Cheedle & Co., Adelaide; J. B. Curran, Hobart.
ĥ
Kangaroo,
Wallaby,
Rabbit,
Opossum.
Send to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO.,
SYDNEY,
and so obtain utmost possible prices.
Undeniable Figures prove that our PERFECT and UP-TO-DATE
system of handling Wool meets with full appreciation from Woolgrowers.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO. Ltd.
SYDKTEY.
WOOL, GRAIN, and PRODUCE BROKERS.
During; the Season 1901-2 we offered at auction 64.066 bales, and sold
at auction and privately ex Catalogue 5*7,076 bales, thus firmly
establishing ourselves as the LEADING Wool Selling Brokers of Sydney on
account of COUNTRY CONSIGNORS.
We invite inspection of our popular TRUST A/c System and of the figures given above.
N.B.—Our Figures do NOT include private Sales of Uncatalogued Wool. George Maiden, Manager.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Cliarge : 3 HP ex* Cent, to tlae G-rowera.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge fed. per lb. to the Buyers.
nr A rNESS CURED
Deafness is incurable till the
cause is removed. Therefore Ear
Drums and other artificial aids
never cure. Nobody need be
deaf where the ELECTRICON is obtainable. Write to-day
mentioning this paper, and we will send valuable informa- j
tion FREE. Address-
L. R. Vernon Coy., 60-64 Hunter-st., Sydney.
A
LCOHOLIC EXCESS.
DRINK AND DRUG HABITS CURED at
Patient’s own home. Can be {riven secretly.
Testimonials from prominent people. Write for pamphlet
or call on
THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
HAVE THE
BEST.
ħ
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily operated, whioh will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR.
The Lateral Wires are two-ply cable of best Gal. Steel Wire intersected by Crimped Steel Pickets
securely interwoven at any desired distance apart, forming a perfect Web Fence which, will hold
securely all kinds of Stock.
FOE CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE PENCE CO.,
128 Franklin St., Melbourne ; 143 Sussex St., Sydney.
WONDERFUL VALUE IN CIGARS.
SINGLE BOX AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
GUARANTEE: EVERY CIGAR SOUND AND IN PERFECT CONDITION.
Goods
Exchanged or Money
Returned.
CIGARS
DELIVERED FREE OF DUTY AND CHARGES.
ROMA QUEENS
LA PAROLA, Reliable Smoka ..
HIGH LIFE MENDOZAS
NIMROD REIN A VICTORIA ..
LA SPECIAL, from Choicest Leaf
SANTIAGO LA FLOR, Fine Quality
“ LEOLA,” Borneo, Mild Smoking
“ EL RIVAL,” Borneo, Full Flavor
HEAVY WEIGHTS (P. De Mendoza) ..
“PERLA” BOUQUET
“EL M UNDO ” (Rothschilds) ..
“MENDOZA” (Rothschilds) ..
“ PERL A ” (Rothschilds) .. ..
“MINERVA” No. 1 MANILA ..
“ WINDSOR LADY ” (Manila Regalia) ..
“PERLA MINERVA,” MANILA, Fine Quality
FLOR DE NAVES (Havana Reina)
HENRY OLAY (Havana Couchas, Extra)
Post Free Post Free Usuae Rhtaie
N.S.W. Other States. Price.
25 in
100 in
100 in
100 in
100 in
50 in
50 in
50 in
ICO in
50 in
25 in
25 in
25 in
100 in
50 in
25 in
100 in
50 in
SEND FOR
OUR
LIST
OF
C. 8.8?
BRIAR
PIPES
I
MICK SIMMONS,
TOBACCO MERCHANT and IMPORTER,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
Tobacconists and Storekeepers may obtain Wholesale List on application!
WOOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON and CO., Ltd.,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN,
SY DNB "ST.
WHY WARNER’S SAFE CURE CURES.
RHEUMATISM
POUT
EURALGIA
UMBAGO
SCIATICA
BLOOD DISORDERS
ANAEMIA
INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS
SICK HEADACHE
GENERAL DEBILITY
GRAVEL
BLADDER TROUBLES
BRIGHT’S DISEASE
For the full understanding of the curative action
of Warner’s Safe Cure, it is necessary to bear in
mind tli9 processes of nature by which human life
is maintained. Reduced to their essential prin-
ciples, these processes are simply the wasting and
renewal of the tissues of the body.
It is absolutely necessary to life that the body
should waste away, and that its substance should
be renewed by food, water, and fresh air. Night
and day this process of waste and replaceman goes
on unceasingly. Every time a man draws breath
his body gains in weight by the oxygen, etc., taken
from the air, and every time he breathes out it
loses weight by the carbonic acid and moisture
given forth.
Insensibly, too, the body is losing weight all the
time. You can prove this by placing your hand
on a cold piece of polished glass, when you will
see that moisture given forth by the skin has con-
densed. Were the body to be entirely covered
with a coat of waterproof varnish, death would
quickly result.
Apart from the skin and lungs, the organs em-
ployed in this process of waste are the kidneys and
liver, and the maintenance of those organs in
thorough working order is the grand secret of good
health.
The Kidneys. —The function which the kidneys
perform is to filter the blood and otherwise
separate from it the surplus water and the various
impurities which it contains. These impurities
are urea, uric acid, and mineral matter, which,
with water, constitute the urine.
When the kidneys have done their work, the
purified blood is delivered to the veins, and is
returned to the heart, having in its course
traversed the body and become laden with a fresh
supply of waste matter. The heart again delivers
the blood to the kidneys, which once more filter
it and extract the impurities. This process is
continuous.
The Liver. —The part the liver plays in the
process of waste is chiefly the manufacturing from
the blood the liquid called “ Bile,” which is
delivered by the liver into the intestines, and acts
as a natural cathartic.
The liver and kidneys are very sensitive organs,
feudden chills, fever, alcoholic intemperance, and
tropical heat are all liable to congest the liver aiu
reduce it to an abnormal condition. The kidneyt
are exceedingly susceptible to inflammation. An
ordinary feverish cold, which closes the pores and
hinders the skin in performing its share in the
removal of the waste products of the body, throws
a burden of extra work upon the kidneys which
they may be unable to perform. Influenza, or
any kind of fever, taxes the kidneys unduly, and
may cause them to break down under the strain.
Any inflammation of the kidneys is very apt to
affect the liver, and vice versa.
Should the liver or kidneys, or both, become
unable to fulfil their purpose thoroughly, then the
blood becomes laden with urinary and biliary
poisons, which are carried to every part of the
body.
Sometimes these poisons become deposited in
the joints or tissues, and cause Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Sciatica, or Gout. In other oases the
blood, being contaminated, is in an unfit condition
to absorb nutriment, which causes Ancemia,
Neuralgia, digestive troubles, a/nd Debility. In
other cases the supply of bile to the intestines
being inadequate, Constipation, with its attendant
evils result; in others, Biliousness. In others
again the impurity of the blood develops boils and
skin eruptions. Sometimes the urio acid is
deposited in the kidneys and produces Stone,
Gravel, and urinary and bladder trouble a
The reason, then, that Warner’s Safe Cure cure;
so many apparently diverse disorders, is that they
all proceed from one cause, namely—the inability
of the kidneys or liver to do their work properly,
and so rid the blood of these poisons in the
manner provided by nature.
Warner’s Safe Cure has complete mastery over
functional and chronic liver and kidney derange
ments, and by restoring those vital organs to
health and activity, does away with the cause ol
these several complaints. When the kidneys and
liver are efficiently carrying out the wonderful
scheme of work allotted to them by nature, none
of the disorders here enumerated can exist.
A pamphlet containing fuller particular
relating to Warner’s Safe Cure and the diseases it
cures will be sent post free to any address on
application to H. H. Warner and Co., Limited.
Australasian Branch, 528 to 532 Little Lonsdal
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.


h
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
ĥ
m
•r
-
m
% (tU/.MU, Nto,,n*<A'\
Ml. y.'U/f, ;
)J*.. K| m ■#. #
»>,'
ni) i, ,>.,,
6fJ
ER*J
,W:
Bjs
syO 5 yO
R<sJ|
v"\
Wwi
3 72
n ")/-a; vvv\
#%W '
1 Ul, V / -U);. ..
•'.iik*-A" SM’-.a,
-A, '•■
t
o
K'Si&
.' 1 "•• \ i S|
. "V S' U-
//, 'v'
•l/,,.\\.. f ‘‘ Vil/^
A-vW- *,»
'//4-m
\A/]
The Largest Photographic Warehouse
I3XT
Cameras from - - - 5/6 to £5O.
375 George-st., Sydney.
260 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
65 Bundle St.,
ADELAIDE,
90 Queen St.,
BRISBAN
TRADE
MARK
FOX Bros. & Co., Ltd., warn the public that their Trade Mark consists
ONLY OF THE WORD FOX
which is a guarantee of soundness of material and quality of dye of all
Worsted Coatings, Serges & Tweeds
on which it is stamped.
As the result of many years of experience . . .
FOX’S PURE INDIGO DYE
is recognised as the best in the market. All FOX'S Standard Cloths are
stamped every two yards on the back—
FOX
PURE INDIGO
and without this stamp are not ge .uine. These celebrated serges can be
obtained from the leading Tailors and Drapers throughout the Colonies.
FOX BROS & Co., Ltd., WELLINGTON, SOMERSET, England.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS
Catalogue
Free . . .
French’s Acting Edition.
ħ
Rare Rooks
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalog ue of
Boolcs Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
A LIVERS VAGARIES.
Nervous Weakness and Exhaustion.
A Great Change for the Better.
The Case of
Mrs E. SHEWANi
(BX OCR REPORTER.)
Mrs. Elizabeth She wan. of No. 8 Lii.tle
Ed ward-street, Pyrmont, was recently in-
terviewed by a press representative, and
gave her views on various matters of in-
terest.
“ I am given to understand that you
created a great sun rise amongst your
neighbours a little while back,” said the
newspaper man. “ Will you kindly tell me
what it was all about?”
“ With the utmost pleasure,” was the
hearty reply. “It was by shaking off a
long-standing comp aint that I surprised
everybody, myself included, for I had been
suffering for many years from dyspepsia.
The reason why my' recovery was unex-
pected was because I had been under the
care of several doctors, taking their medi-
cines till I positively loathed the sight of it,
besides being treated us an out-door patient
at a hospital for five months, and no good
came from all the physics which hud been
administered to me. What else could I
think than that I was incurable? Ami to
be in such a hopeless predicament was really
awful. Earth and heaven were both blotted
out of my existence, as the inetiicacy of the
medical treatment I had received left me
alone in the world with nothing but physi-
cal suffering to e dure. For years there
was scarcely a day passed hut that 1 felt
intensely tired and so weary and weak that
I had to let my work go undone because I
was unable to do it, ami often I coul l hardly
get about for the terrible pains in my chest
and between my shoulders. ,It seemed as if
something heavy was preventing me from
getting my breath, and if the weather was
at all warm the smothering sensations were
frightfully distressing. The whole of my
system was out of order, the conseqm nee
being that I was hardly ever without a de-
pressing headache, and a feeling as if my
eyes were swollen also troubled me. When-
ever I made an effort to do a little work the
exertion made me feel lightheaded, and at
times I was afrai 1 to go outside the door on
account of giddiness, which used to seize me
and make me powerless to stand on my feet.
Another reason why I deemed it prudent to
keep as still as possible was that any exer-
tion gave me palpitation of t> e heart. It
might be through getting up from a chair
rather too quickly, or, perhaps, through a
little agitation caused by sounds in the
street that the palpitations came on ; but in
every instance I felt greatly distressed, to
sa nothing of the fears about what might
be wrong with me which entered my mind.
So many people in this country die from
various affections of the heart that anything
wrong with that organ is naturally alarm-
ing, but I now know that it was my liver
which cause., those serious symptoms to
appear. ”
“ Were there any other liver symptoms in
evidence ? "
“ Well, the gall-like taste in my mouth
and the furred condition of my tongue
pointed to the fact that my internal organs
required renovating, while to digest my food
was an utter impossibility. Try what I
would in the form of light diet, it was all
the same, after eating being violent spasms
of wind in the stomach which almost drove
me frantic, and often I felt inclined to roll
on the floor in the excess of agony, which
was making my life insupportable. The
food I had eaten was not taken from choice,
because I had no appetite for it, and it was
his continuous loss of appetite which
grieved me, as 1 knew that I could never get
strong so long as I was unable to take
nourishment to give me strength. And as
my vitality wasted away, so did my loins
and limbs ache.®! felt as sore as it I had
been beaten from head to foot, and i o won-
der that my bones were ra.kedwith aches,
for my body and brain seldom got any rest.
Sleepless nights I passed in profusion, al-
lhough if I slept at all I dreamed in such a
terrifying manner that wakefulness would
have been far preferable. What a nervous
wreck I became, to be sure ! My nerves
were so weak and highly strung that if any-
body knocked at the door I nearly jumped
out of my chair, and then it took them a
long time to get steady again. A dread of
something happening tormented my mind
both day and night, but did I not have good
reason to be like that, considering that my
disease stood defiantly against my medi-
cines ? ”
“As you are so well now, Mrs. Shewan,
that statement is scarcely correct.”
“I mean up to the time of taking
Clements Tonic ; then everything changed
for the better. I made a great mistake in
not heeding the advi e of many of my friends
who had repeatedly urged me to take
Clements Tonic ; but I thought if doctors
could not cure me, nothing could. When at
last I became persuaded, Clements Tonic
soo.i showed what a mistaken notion this
was, for after taking two or three bottles I
felt quite different, my improved appearance
being the subject of general comment
amongst my neighbours. The appetite I
gained through the medium of Clements
Tonic was, to say the least of it, remark-
able. I was always ready for my meals,
and how could I enjoy them ? That dull
and heavy feeling after eating passed away,
and when my food ceased turning to wind
and creating pain, I could soon go about in
comfort ana do a little work, for I always
woke up feeling fresh and vigorous after the
sound sleep which came thioogh using
Clements Tonic. 'ln time my chest and
head pains disappeared, and nothing gave
me greater satisfaction than the b mishment
of my heart troubles. I could walk about
quite briskly without there being any pal-
pitation or dizziness, the only inconvenience
which I experienced after three weeks’ use
of Clements Tonic being from nervousness,
for I still trembled a little if I had been ex-
erting myself very much ; but in a few days
later that trouble was entirely remedied,
and it has never come back again. My
digestive system wa3 thoroughly restored to
order, and from that day to this I must say
that the weary aches in my limbs have been
strangers. The acute pains in my head and
shoulders were also carried away by
Clements Tonic, which regulated my in-
ternal organs to a nicety. Such a catalogue
of human suffering as mine was could not
have i.een more severe, yet Clements Tonic
relieved me of every pain, besides pouring
into my system the invigorating and disease-
curing qualitie < it possessed, so that I was
left with the full vigour and health of my
younger days. The return of that alacrity
and cheerfulness of spirits that I was wont
to have made my recovery complete, and I
am not likely to forget that it is to Clements
Tonic that my gratitude is owing.”
“ V\ ill you make that admission through
the press ? ”
“ Willingly, for I recognise the fact that
many people are suffering in despair like I
was, and for their benefit you may publish
my testimony in any way you choose.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Elizabeth Siikwan, of 8 Little Edward-street,
Pyrmont, Sydney, in the State of New South
Wales, Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly
and sincerely declare that I have carefully read
the annexed document, consisting of four folios,
and consecutively numbered from one to four, and
that it contains and is a true and faithful account
of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic ; and also
contains my full permission to publish in any way my
statements-which I give voluntarily, without re-
ceiving any payment; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act, 11)00.
Subs-rilied and declared at Pyrmont, this tenth
day ni March, one thousand nine hundred and two,
leloie me,
JAB. McDOUGALL, J.P.
NIOIR’S
HERRINGS
In Tomato Sauce.
Sn 1 lb. Flat Oval Tins.
Manufacturers :
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
Tost
Published,
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Harry Morant,
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
Price 1 2
Pont
Free.
Y By FRANK RENAR.
Y
Edwards, Duniop & Co., Sydney
“The repo 't of the punishment of colonial
forces for killing prisoners has a reassuring effect.
It is the sincere wish of both the mother country
and colonies that the war will be continued without
any descent to savagery or inhumanity,” says
Toronto (Canada) Globe. If what returned
contingenters say is anything like true, a good
many of the Globe’s soldier-countrymen in
S’Africa would, if they had their deserts, share
the fate of Morant and Handcock.
Editor Bulletin. —Doesn’t loyalty cut
both ways? When danger threatens, the plu-
tocracy howls for the small man to prove his
loyalty and fight for his alleged country; yet, in
times of peace, said small man is “ left ” in favor
of any cheaper foreigner. Look at the seafarers —
how many British work on British vessels ?
Teamsters —superseded by Afghans and Chows.
When Japan called for its war-loan, in ’95, it was
over-subscribed locally, and the lenders refused
interest. Britain’s patriots don’t do things like <Aai;
witness the beef, saddle y, and freight contracts.
During our own squatter-war, the squatters were
paid 10s. a day for horses used entirely in their
own quaTrel. And Britain’s loyalty to us consists
in selling us obsolete weapons, which, if left on
their hands, would get the War Office people into
trouble for criminal ignorance.— Seen
Extract from the published letter of a
Lismore (N.S.W.) trooper, whose name is given
in the local paper:—
I forgot to tell you that we got 20,000 head of cattle on
this drive, and burned a lot of houses, and turned the
women out on the veldt and left them there.
It used to be the proud boast of the British soldier
that he didn’t make war on women. How often
has a sentiment to that effect brought down the
shilling gallery, when the melodrama had swel-
tered along to Act V., and the lost will was just
about to be discovered, and the down-trodden
heroine was suffering all the miseries of want in a
dress that cost £lO 17s. 6d. or more ?
“ H.S.R.” : Concerning returned cohen-
tingenters:—
I have only known three personally, and upon one
thing these seem fairly agreed—“No more blanky graft
for me.” One, “ pitching” to crowd of youths, male and
female, said, “ Any blanky Boer I could get at I let him
have my bayonet in the guts, and I told a Boer doctor
who was helping some of our chaps after a scrap that I
would like to have 15 yards of his tripe on my cheese-
knife.” This is what Australia gets for allowing a few
bunco-steerers to run her into Imperialism, and there
will be no return ever but Dead Sea apples. Only one
thing can be more calamitous than the sending away of
these men, and that is their return.


Little Girl
had Rickets
find was over two years of age
before she could walk
We have before us a letter which tells of
a little girl who was suffering from rickets,
a disease, as you probably know, which
results from poor nutrition. The letter say a:
“ 152, Ashmore Road, St. Peter’s Park,
“ Paddington, London, England,
“October 22nd, 1900.
" Dear Sirs, —I can safely say that Scott’s
Emulsion is a splendid preparation for
children. My little girl had rickets very
badly, and was over two years of age before
she could walk. I gave her a course of
Scott’s Emulsion, and the results of its use
were most gratifying. She also had several
fits, but has not had once sinoe taking
Soott’s Emuhion. I gave her the prepara-
tion for a few months, with the result that
she was completely cured of riokets, and
lip
1
tv
m
/7
m
i' i
EDITH WEST.
{From a photograph.)
was soon able to walk quite nicely. She
is now four years of age, and is a strong
and healthy child, and I feel convinced it is
owing to her having taken Scott’s Emulsion
that she has got on so well.—Faithfully
“ (Signed) T. G. West.”
Scott’s Emulsion overcomes rickets by
supplying lime to the bones, and by enrich-
ing the blood with the properties of food
that give to the growing body vitality and
robust health. The public should not judge
of the merit of cod-liver oil and hypophos-
phites of lime and soda until these remedial
agents are tested as they are found in
Scott’s Emulsion. No other remedy
resembles Soott’s Emulsion in form, or in
the proportion of its ingredients. In the
first place, Soott’s Emulsion disguises the
ijaste of eod-liver oil completely, which is
one decided advantage. In addition to this,
it presents the oil in its most effectual
form, so that the most good is derived from
it. This is all-important to the sufferer who
wishes a speedy cure.
tn order to make sure you are purchasing
the genuine Scott’s Emulsion, we suggest
that you look for our trade mark of a man
holding a big fish over his shoulder. This
trade mark is on the wrapper of every
genuine bottle.
You can obtain a sample of Scott’s Emulsion
by sending fourpence to Scott & Bowne, Ltd.,
483 Kent-street, Sydney, and mentioning this
paper. All chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
BUSHMAN WATCH
h
m
ĥ
last
ħ
'l'llTry It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
(apillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
CRAIG &. AITKEN, N.S .W. Barber’s Supply
House. 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A GIFT FOR THE LADIES.
h
We make this
Special Offer
to advertise
our
Ostrieh
Tips.
5/-
The Bunch
Post Free.
WRITE TO-DAY.
SEND POSTAL NOTES.
TWO VERY SUPERIOR
TIPS, with OSPREYS,
in black, white, orcream,
worth 10/6.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bourke & F-wsnston sts., Melbourne
D
EAR SIR, —I have been cured of Weakness and De
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
E. PARKHURST, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Lite Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand,
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per cent,
of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
HEAD OFFICE; 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
ĥ
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 108,
H. Hillier,
ISO Sussex-sb,,
SYDNEY.
JS" Send for a
Catalogue.
ħ
Bent -Shaft SulUlea
£lO ISb.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
W : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY,
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
mm#
V
mi
ivn.iMfi
mmm
mmiimmm
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
WHOLESALE
Distributing: Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia —
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaida
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland—
Thos. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Philp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand —
D. Benjamin & Co.
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christchurcn.
’S
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
‘FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
SALT.’
the effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— See capsule marked ENO’B ‘FRUIT SALT.' Without it yon have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. O. ENO, Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, ENG.,
bv J. C. UNO’S Patent.
MARTELLS
“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
“ Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
Tna Lancet.
h
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery IVlanuf. Company
When In town, pay ns a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY ' If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, 15; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, >7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Bnckboard Buggies from £8
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and S A PULERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do nob ba
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for lest
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay la pa*
cent more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SVOiXjaif
OUR S'I’KCIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
ĥ
Delirered at any Wharf er
N.S.-W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Bards of the Backblocks
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Free-lance Fancies.
O ! sing for the sight of a river—
A scent of the pines on the breeze,
A rustle of reeds and the quiver
Of buds upon blossoming trees—
For, out of the memoried far-way
Of mountain and river and plain,
Of bush-track and bridle and bar-way,
I’ve caught the old vagabond vein.
I know not what bred the emotion,
Save this, that I sat for a while
Attempting to knock a bush notion
Into something like printable style,
When, out where the sparrows are winging
Their way over brick-work and slate,
A mob of merinos came stringing
Across to the Merribong gate.
There was scent as of maple ; wood burning ;
The sandhills seemed never so fair ;
And a mirage was solemnly turning
A box-clump roots-up in the air ;
And out where the lignum is scanty
And swamp-tracks lead up to the road,
I could see the white roof of the shanty—
And remembered the “scores” that I owed.
But I drank there (in fancy), and, drinking,
Dreamed over my vagabond dreams,
Till, the music of memory linking
Soft hands with swift mountainous streams,
I was back in the heart of the ranges
Full-veined with voluptuous gold,
Where it’s only the season that changes
And only the rocks that are old.
And under the peppermints, shining,
With silver-ways won from the moon,
Warm fingers with mine were entwining,
Warm lips with my lips were a-tune ;
And a brown horse fed into the distance,
And a sweetheart crept closer beside,
And, O, for the joy of existence,
With a dear little vagabond bride )
Ah ! ’twas only a moment of dreaming !
I am back in the turmoil again,
And under the veil of the seeming
Are the faces of bartering men ;
Yet over the tiles of the city
I’m flinging the lilting refrain
Of a song thg,t I learned on the “ Mi tty ”
When I lived in the vagabond vein.
And, somehow, the half-written stories,
The topical ditties and ‘ ‘ proofs ”
Seem glowing with vagabond glories,
And rhyming with galloping hoofs ;
And maidens in manuscript lurking
Laugh out of the leaves where they hide,
For they know that their free-lance is working
To welcome a vagabond bride.
Then, sing for the sight of a river—
A scent of the pines on the breeze,
A rustle of reeds and the quiver
Of buds upon blossoming trees—
For, out of the memoried far-way
Of mountain and river and plain,
Of bush-track and bridle and bar-way,
I’ve caught the old vagabond vein !
Vio.
MILKY WHITE.
Australia.
Old ! not as Time is marked in days like these,
But hoar with unblest seons of salt-dry tears,
Ringed by the surges of the trackless seas,
Girt with the mysteries of thy barren years 1
Untouched by any later Hopes or Fears
Than those which linger in thy bitter lees 1
Shrouded and Dark —shod with Infinity,
Freezing the soul of man within its shrine ;
Preserved through terror thy virginity,
Untouched by that dark race which was not thine :
Longing and lonely ’neath thy sweet starshine,
Waiting the face of thy Divinity !
O barren land ! thou may’st be fruitful yet,
Undarkened, grand ! Thy sun hath not yet set!
ECHO.
The Bush Telephone.
Prim Phcebg’s cheeks are flushed to-day,
Methinks I can espy
A wanton air amid her curls—
A lovelight in her eye.
No sorrows canker Phoebe’s heart —
Nor dry-rot of despair.
She plants these in her suitors’ breasts,
With snubbings debonair.
Yet Phoebe knoweth many things,
And often ’neath the stars
She taps the homestead telephone
Beside the slip-rail bars.
A jam-tin hanging to a post,
With parchment lid of brown,
Catches her whispered messages—
While Cupid takes ’em down.
For Jake M'Grinnis, tanned and tall,
The boundary route must tend,
And he—the favored one of all—
Camps at the other end.
Bast night, just past the old slip-rails,
Where nodding heads of gold
Rustled to warn of watching stars,
They passed the tale of old.
The surly mopoke’s gruff rebuke,
The plover’s eerie cry,
The honeysuckle’s quaint perf ume—
All passed unheeded by !
And Phoebe’s cheeks are flushed to-day,
Her heart’s no more her own ;
She gave it all away last night
Per homestead telephone.
VIC.
RITA SUNYASEE.


AN OPEN INVITATION.
ALTHOUGH our Stocks are the finest and best-selected, and displayed by us in the most handsome Stores
in Australasia, don’t for a moment think that our Stores are too grand for you, or that you
can get more for your money in a smaller place. If you do think so you make a big mistake,
and the sooner you give us the opportunity to prove that this is so the better will it be for you.
Does it not stand to reason that we, with our six popular Australasian stores (two more will be opened
in a couple of months, one in Brisbane and the other in Dunedin, N.Z.) can buy in larger quantities and sell at
lower prices than single shops ? Is not the possession 1 of these six stores proof that our prices please the public ?
Next time you want anything in our line, come in and see how well and how cheaply we can supply your
Wants. It will cost you nothing to look round and get all the information you want, and even if you don’t buy
we won’t be offended. Let the purse be fat or lean, the same careful and courteous attention is given to all.
If you are out of town your name and address on a post card will bring our 1902 Catalogue, and you will see
that we can serve you just as carefully by post as if you were standing before the counter.
Watches
to depend on.
ipHAT is the only kind we stock, because we know
that a Watch that does not keep time is much
worse than no Watch at all. We quote a few prices
and our Watch Catalogue tells of the others. You
can have a Catalogue free if you ask for it.
Spoons
and Forks.
A 1 QUALITY.
pLATED on pure Nickel Silver
and warranted to give com-
plete satisfaction. Old English or
Fiddle Patterns.
Table Spoons .. 355. per doz.
Table Forks .. 355. „
Dessert Forks 255. „
Dessert Spoons 255. „
Tea Spoons .. 15s. „
See our Spoon and Fork List for
Lower Grades.
OE
FID
Keeper Rings
ħ
In a wide variety of hand-
some, hand-chased designs.
We make them in 18ct. gold*
and at the prices quoted
you will fintUwe give excel-
lent value—2ss, 30s, 355.
Engagement Rings.
h
A Five-Stone Diamond Half-
Hoop Ring has always been
the favorite style, and we
have a splendid stock to
select from. We illustrate
our Five Guinea Ring—five
Sparkling Diamonds set in 18cb. Gold. Better
ones at £6 10s, £8 10s, £lO 10s, and higher if you
want them.
Wedding Rings,
ĥ
Of 18ct. Gold, in different
thicknesses and widths ; all
sizes. We are sure you can’t
get better value anywhere,
and here you can rely on
our rings being full quality
18ct. Gold.
Prices—2ls, 255, 30s, 355,
40s, 50s, 60s.
Tie Clips
The handiest things imaginable. Keep the tie in
position. Suitable alike for ladies and gentlemen.
Prices—Silver, Is 6d a pair; 9ct. Gold, 6s 6d ; Heavy,
12s 6d ; Pearl or Turquoise Set, 14s 6d ; Sapphire or Ruby
Set, 16s 6d.
Gold Muff Chains,
There is a dressy gracefulness about these long Gold Chains
that ensures their being fashionable for some time to come.
We stock a big range in 9ct. Gold from 635, and in lfict.
Gold from £5 ss. The one we illustrate is extra heavy and
costs, in 9ct. £4 15s, in 15ct. £8 10s.
ħ
4>2 GEORGE ST sydnfy.
ALL GOODS SENT FREE AND SAFE BY POST ON RECEIPT OF REMIT-
TANCE £©' Write for our ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
Cruets
immense stock of Cruets, Breakfast, Lunch or Dinner sizes, to choose from. Silver-
plated Frames and Spoons. Plain, Fancy or best Cut Glass Bottles. The prices for
Breakfast Cruets run Bs. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d., 16s. 6d., 18s. 6d. ; Lunch size, 16s. 6d.,
18s. 6d., 215., 255., and Dinner Cruets 16s. 6d., 215., 275. 6d., all the way up to £5. The
last price buys a lovely Six Bottle Dinner Cruet, finest Full Cut Bottles and very best
Silver-plated Frame.
A CRUET FOR A LIFETIME .
Price 12s. 6d.
Gent’s Solid Gold Cuff Links
Of the very best English manufacture, Hall-marked, wi'h strong chain connections, thus ensuring long wear.
Dozens of good Designs to pick from.
No. F 126.
9ct. Gold, 16s 6d.
No. 201 A.
9ct. Gold, £1 Is.
No. 193 A.
Oct. Gold, 13s 6d.
IF
No. 200.
9c.t. Gold, £1
Pearl Crescent
Brooches.
A really pretty, well-made 15ct.
Gold Orescent Brooch, set with
Beal Pearls. A marvel of value.
£1 15s each. Hundreds of nice
Designs in Gold Brooches to pick
from at prices starting as low as ss,
and Oct. gold, too, at that price.
Maori
Lucky
Beans
Made of the real
New Zealand
Greenstone, so
highly prized by
the Maoris. We
have them in two
sizes, mounted with 9cb. Gold.
They are suitable for Gentlemen’s
Pendants, or to hang on a Lady’s
Bangle or Mnff-Ohain. Two sizes,
7s 6d and 9s 6d.
Curb Bangles.
The Ever - Fashionable Bangle.
Fitted with Padlock and Safety
Chain. Each in a Morocco Case.
9ct. Gold, three sizes—
£2, £2 15s, £3 10s
15ct. Gold, three sizes—
£3 15s, £5, £6 6s
Bamboo
Bangles
Still retain a
wide popular-
ity on account
of their hovel
yet artistic
appearance. All our Bamboo Bangles are
well made and finished, and of good
weight.
h
Oct. Gold as Sketch.. £1 7 6 15ct. Gold £2 10
Oot. Gold, larger .. £1 17 6 15ct. Gold £3 10
Oct. Gold, larger still £2 5 0 15et. Gold £4 0
WE have a fine selection of these Useful and Popular
Articles in stock. They make nice Wedding Gifts,
especially when cased in half-dozens, as these are. The
prices run—
Cake Forks.
CONSTIPATION VANQUISHED.
Professor LAWSON TAIT, M.D.,
THE GREAT SURGEON, in writing, said
“Lawson Tait highly recommends
KUTNOW’S POWDER.”
We call attention to the high praise bestowed
upon KUTNOW’S POWDER by the highest
Medical authorities, and the indisputable testi-
mony of the general public.
*
Professor B. L. WYMAN, M.D.,
Dean of the Birmingham Medical College, in
writing, February 13th, 1901, says^—-
“Gentlemen. —I have to say that I have tried
KUTNOW’S POWDER, and am pleased to Say
the results have been very satisfactory. I have
been a great sufferer from Chronic liitnemia
(uric-acid in the blood) for the past two years,
and have been greatly improved since I began the
use of KUTNOW’S POWDER. I mention this
simply that you may know what I think of the
value of your Powder in all URIC-ACID
DISEASES. As an eliminant of URIC-ACID
poison, have found it distinctly efficient. I have
prescribed it freely, and shall continue to do so.”
It is especially beneficial in all cases of GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, DIABETES, and BRIGHT’S
DISEASE.
RECENT VALUABLE
TESTIMONY.
SIR JOHN B. MONCKTON,
Town Clerk of London, writes:
“ Guildhall, London, E.C.,
4th Nov., 1901.
“Gentlemen,—l have much satisfaction in
stating that for the last two years I have regu-
larly used KUTNOW’S POWDER, with the
result that troublesome and frequent attacks
oflumbago, with other gouty symptoms that
had troubled me for years, seem to have
entirely disappeared. “Yours truly,
“JOHN B. MONCKTON.”
Rev. H. T. DUDLEY writes : —-
“I consider KUTNOW’S POWDER invalu-
able, and have again and again found it of the
utmost service, and would not be without it
Singly IT HAS QUITE RECENTLY
CLEARED OFF SOME RHEUMATISM
WHICH HAD TROUBLED ME. lam con-
tinually recommending it to friends. You may
make what use you ermy other letter.
“(Rev.) H. T. DUDLEY (Yicar),
“ Whitfield Vicarage, Glessop, Derby.”
Kutnow’s Powder
PRESCRIBED FOR AND USED BY THE ROYAL FAMILY.
THE GREATEST REMEDY IN THE WORLD
.FOR ...
Constipation, Stomach, Liver and Kidney Troubles, Gout,
Rheumatism, and Uric-Acid Diseases.
VARIABLE APPETITE, coated tongue, and unpleasant taste in the morning, are the result
HEADAGH^either nervous or bilious, mental depression, and insomnia are the result of a
pimples, boils, and eczema are the result of impure blood and unhealthy
deposits in the system. , . ~ . .
RHEUMATISM, gout, and sciatica are the result of excessive uric-acid m the.blood
INDIGESTION and chronic dyspepsia are the result of insufficient and sluggish gastric ju c
supply.
The Proper Remedy Indicated by the highest Medical Authorities
for these disorders is KUTNOW’S POWDER, which is a perfect organic
cleanser and the safety-valve of health. KUTNOW’S POWDER has the
same curative and medicinal healing properties as the waters oft e
Royal and Imperial European Spas, without their drastic and lower-
ing effects. KUTNOW’S POWDER possesses the power of eliminating
from the Blood the poison created by it, an excess of bile and acids.
The use of KUTNOW’S POWDER thereby gives tone to the system ; and
in assisting to build up healthy tissue, becomes the first aid to a
vigorous constitution.
Constipation neglected or unskilfully treated becomes habitual or chronic,
and is responsible for most of the ills which flesh is heir to. Most people,
when sick? whether from INDIGESTION, DYSPEPSIA, BILIOUSNESS,
SICK HEADACHE, FLATULENCE, NAUSEA, SOUR ERUCTATIONS,
VOMITING, or HEARTBURN, fly to the aid of drastic purgatives, pills,
salts, or noxious oils, the use of which means a passing relief, but which (as
most medical men declare) afterwards -increase the constipation, and thereby
accentuate the ailment. Of all the innumerable remedies (offered to the public)
for the cure of constipation there is only one which absolutely meets the
natural necessities of this frequently recurring evil—viz., KUTNOW’S
POWDER, the safety-valve of Health.
Beware of Fraudulent Imitations.
KUTNOW’S POWDER may be obtained in capsuled bottles, of all Chemists and Medi-
XT X Cl 1.1 i- TMn nlr * * TT I T’O nix QTI CUril CT DpAT T iPU.dV
cine Vendors. See that the Registered Trade Markj “ Hirschensprung ” (or Deer Leap), and
the autograph facsimile signature, “S. KUTNOW and Co* (LdA” are on thedabel and carton.
ONLY THESE ENSURE GENUINENESS. INSIST ON “KUTNOW’S,” AND
FIRMLY REFUSE ANY SUBSTITUTES; THEY ARE WORTHLESS AND OFTEN
INJURIOUS.
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 FARRIN6DON ROAD, LONDON, E.C.
Proprietors in U.S.A.: KUTNOW BROS., LTD., 853 BROADWAY, NEW YORK CITY, U.S.A.
Sir MORELL MACKENZIE,
M.D,
THE WORLD-RENOWNED SPECIALIST,
in writing, said :
“ I have tried XUTNOW’S POWDER
and find that it answers particularly
well.”
This testimony requires no comment, but must
appeal to all who value the advice of this eminent
physician.
Additional Medical Evidence.
DR. BRACHET, Head Physician
at the Baths at Aix-les-Bains,
in writing, said :
‘‘For patients suffering from disorders of the
Stomach, Liver, and Bowels I have prescribed
‘ KtJTNOW’S Improved Effervescent Carlsbad
POWDER,’ and by its aid obtained the best
results. Have prescribed the powder for about a
year in my hospital practice here, as well as fre-
quently for my private patients, and find it also
efficient in Gout and Rheumatism. I consider
KUTNOW’S POWDER indispensable to persons
travelling. ”
Dr. HUGH LANE, M.R.C.S.,
L.R.C.P., wrote :
“ The more I try KUTNOW’S POWDERS in
my practice, the more I like it. The flavour is
unobjectionable, and thus it is readily taken by
ladies and children.”
D. McNEIL, M.D., L F.P.S.,
writes:
“Holm, Kirkwall, Nov. 2nd, 1901.
“Dear Sirs, —I always use and prescribe
KUTNOW’S POWDER, and could not get on
without it.-
- Yours truly, „ „
“D. McNEILL, M.D.
A NURSE writes :
“Netley House, 15 Henrietta Street,
“ Cavendish Square, W.
“NURSE BELL begs to thank Messrs. Kut-
now & Co. for the bottle of KUTNOW S PO
DER forwarded to her. After having given it a
fair trial, she is much pleased with it, and wm
most certainly recommend it to her patien s
suffering from ‘ uric-acid ’ disease.” -
BEWARE OF FRAUD.
WARNING.—When purchasing KUTNOW’S POWDER
we must ask you to be cautious. Be particu ar i
seeing that you get “ KUTNOW’S.” Fraudulent nu -
tations are simply drastic purgatives, and no o
useless, but absolutely injurious.


UNDER THE ROYAL PATRONAGE OF
H.M. THE QUEEN OF GREECE.
M.R.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE.
M.R.H. THE PUKE OF SPARTA.
ĥ
H.R.H. THE DUCHESS OF SPARTA.
H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHENLOHE.
H.R.H. PRINCE GEORGE OF GREECE.
(High Commissioner of Crete, &c., &C.)
EDWARDS’
II
a
FOR
THE
ħ
fit
=~l.>
Photo d specially for the •• TTarlene ■ Jo., hy I.angfier, Bond St., W
Hay market Theatre, London.
Miss JULIA
writes —
“ / am at present trying your ' Harlcne 'for my
hair, and T find it one of the best Hair Tonics and
Restorers / have ever used, and I have lined many.
Will you kindly send me two more bottles.”
THE GREAT HAIR
PRODUCER and RESTORER. I
THE FINEST DRESSING SPECIALLY PREPARED AND
DELICATELY PERFUMED.
A LUXURY AND A NECESSITY TO EVERY MODERN TOILET
“ Harlene ” Produces Luxuriant Hair. Prevent its Falling Off and Turning
Grey. Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the Beard and Moustache.
The World Renowned Remedy for Baldness. For Preserving. Strengthening,
and Rendering the Hair Beautifully Soft, for Removing Scurf Dandruff; &c.,
f also for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour.
Crown Prince’s Palace. Athens.
HLR.H. PRINCESS SPARSE OF GREECE
writes —“ Messrs. Edwards’ Preparation, ‘Harlene’ for the Hair, has given entire
satisfaction. H.R.H. wishes six more bottles of ‘Harlene’ sent as soon as possible.
Kitegyhaza, County Bikis, Hungary.
COUNTESS OEfSSIS ALS¥IASY
writes—“ Please forward me three more bottles of ‘Harlene, _asl am particularly satisfied
with the two bottles sent me to Switzerland, and have been using it ever since.
Full Description and Directions for use in Twenty Languages supplied with every
Bottle. 1/-, 2/8, and (three times 2/(5 size) 4/8 per Bottle, from Druggists, &c.,
all over the World.
/
M
v
ss
Plioto’d specially lor the "Harlene Co., liy i.anpfier, Bond St. ,W.
Ganick Theatre, London.
Miss VIOLET VANBRUGH
W 7 ites-
"/ am very pleased to testify to the excellent
qualities of ' Harlene,' it is most refreshing and
invigorating and I have found it very Stimulating
to the Growth o 1 my Hair.
" P.S. —/ hope fatek will never take me to any
quarter of the globe I where I should be unable
to procure * Harlene,'"
■EDWARDS’ “HARLENE” Co., ©5 & @® 3 High Holborn, kora cl ora, W.C.
GENERAL ELECTRIC
COMPANY.
Capital - - - £5,250,000.
Manufactures the Highest Grade of Electrical Machinery
THEIR NAME IS A GUARANTEE.
Dynamos, Engines and Motors up to 250 H.P. in Stock.
Lighting and Power Plants for Immediate Delivery.
Arc and Incandescent Lamps and Supplies of all kinds.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.,
Electrical Engineers and Contractors,
SOL€ REPRESENTATIVES.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE AND SYDNEY.


:a&"i
m ■
MU}
aui
m
ML
W
&
Li
m
ma>
St
mi
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only and
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
GORDON MARE, Secretary.
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
28 Years in the Establishment.
h
BEST SILVER-PLATED BELTS
We have 100 Latest Patterns to select from.
They will fit any size waist, and guaranteed to last for years.
Prices- 4/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/- to 15/-
Post Free.
ml
SOU.
■&2or
Kindly send for Illustrated Catalogue.
The Goldsmiths & Silversm ths Alliance
Jewellers, Opticians, Watchmakers, 90 King-st.. Sydney (only).
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
hold the
Largest
Stock
on
Earth
of
Genuine Bottled
Cognac
Brandy.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAN].
0o
£
60
cA 1 ”
385
lam-BJO
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica-
tion to The Manager.
mm
m
WIGHTMAN’S
BEACONSFIELP HOTEL
Beaconsfield Parade, St. Kilda, Melbourne.
pillST-OLASS ACCOMMODATION for Visitors and Per-
* manent Boarders. Situated in the healthiest part of
St. Kilda, facing the sea. Hot and Cold Sea Baths. Fifteen
minutes from Melbourne—tram or train. Reasonable Tariff.
Special terms for families and permanent boarders.
Telephone 65 Windsor Exchange.
A ROYAL LIQUEUR.
PETER F. HEERING, Copenhagen,
CHERRY BRANDY
As Supplied to- a " a ■
The King of England; The Royal Danish and Imperial Russian Courts.
SWIFT AND COMPANY, 7 Spring Street, Sydney, Australasian Agents.
W. D. and H. O. WILLS’ 8
“KEYSTONE”
PLUG TOBACCO, in two strengths, DARK and BRIGHT.
Contains only the finest selection of richest Virginian Leaf. To pipe smokers wishing a great treat, “give it a
trial and you will like it.”
“KEYSTONE” TOBACCO smokes cool and sweet. Special pains have been taken in the manufacture to hit the
public taste, and we confidently recommend this Tobacco as being absolutely pure.
MACHINERY
MERCHANTS,
WHOLESALE IRONMONGERS,
And Importers of
Engines, Boilers, Pumps, Wood-
working Machines, Engineers’
Supplies, Blacksmith and
Coachbuilders’ Requisites, Pipes
and Fittings, Boiler Tubes, Gun
Metal and Brassware for S team
and Water, Household and
Builders’ Ironmongery, Agri-
cultural Implements, ilQ.ss
Gears, Chaff Cutters, &c.
! Si
MACjilittßY storc.
Bsm&Aife..
Si
qMCLLIE&C
Euuk
STOKE.
VAi i r V
[w* rn Out tnsLArfo Branch
I'TWNSVIU.E..
ma
ĥ
ħ
AGENTS FOR
ROBEY & CO., Portable
! Steam Engines.
IW. B. HAIGH & CO., Saw-
i mill Machinery.
I GWYNNE’S Centrifugal Pumps
iPEARN’S Manchester Steam
Pumps.
DUPLEX Steam Pumps.
SCOTT’S Steel Mining Ropes.
FRANK VIAL & SON Leather ,
Belting.
WAUKEGAN Barb Wire.
PLANET JR. Implements.
AER MOTOR Windmills.
KEROSENE OIL ENGINES.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 23. No. 3164.
SATURDAY, JUNE 7, 1902.
Prior 6d.
“PEACE!"—ENGLAND’S NEW WHITE ELEPHANT.
MAHOUT CHAMBERLIA N: “WELL, HERE HE IS, SIR, AT LAST. I’VE SAWN ORE HIS TUSKS, AND I THINK IN TIME HE’LL BECOME QUITE TAME,
AND FEED OUT OF YOUR HAND.”
J.B.: “BUT WON’T THEM TUSKS GROW AGAIN?”
CHAMBERLAIN : “TIME WILL TELL, SIR.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBER*
(Payable In Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... 0 9
Half-yearly ... ... ••• ncc
Quarterly ... ... ••• 0 6b
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
SI, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in (kveensland.
Owing to the imposition of\\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— l jd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o f The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note ,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch., poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the "Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects , and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 2000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuit able MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Am.rttP.Hrs in lilack, and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient,
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
. — i. e., 'any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
San Francisco. — L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., S Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
SATURDAY, .TUNE 7, 1902.
The Barmaid Problem.
That sanctified class which signifies its
inward grace by a bare upper lip and an
untidy rim of hair round its face, has lately
started its periodical outbreak on the subject
of barmaids. It proposes to memorialise
several Australian Premiers re the abolition
of the girl who drags the beer-handle, and
the siren who produces the whisky for six-
pence, its alleged reasons being that the
atmosphere of the public-house is bad for
female purity, and that the language heard
there isn’t such as a woman should be
required to listen to. As regards the latter
argument, it may be frankly admitted that
the monkey-shave crowd has much good
logic on its side. It is also claimed that the
barmaid isn’t necessary to the public, seeing
that various countries—notably the United
States—get on quite well without her ; that
she isn’t necessary to herself, seeing that
probably every barmaid in Australia could
get a billet to-morrow in domestic service,
and in some cases with shorter hours, lighter
work, and better sleeping accommodation
than she enjoys in her present capacity, also
with almost equally good pay ; and that the
life of the lady who serves out the beer is
unhealthy, and very frequently immoral.
There is logic in all these things. And when
all these things are granted, the crowd with
the bare lip and the horrified expression isn’t
much further forward.
* * • *
No doubt the atmosphere of the public
house is very often immoral, and if there
was a better moral atmosphere outside for
the barmaid to go to it may be fairly reasoned
that, other things being equal, she ought to
go. Unfortunately the moral atmosphere
outside the hotel—in factories, work-
rooms, coffee palaces, and Sunday schools
—seems to be worse than that inside.
Coghlan, State Statistician of New South
Wales, the leading authority in his line
in Australia and one whose writings
command high respect all over the world,
figures it out on good evidence that over half
the adult female population of New South
Wales is immoral in the conventional sense
of the term. In any average year in N.S. W.
about 9500 mothers will bear each her first
child, and of these much more than a quarter
are illegitimate, and about another quarter
can be proved, by the rapidity with which
birth follows marriage, to be the result of
intercourse, with the husband or with
somebody else, before that marriage
took place. As to whether a married
woman’s second or third or fourth child
is the offspring of adultery statistics can
prove nothing. Further, they can take no
account of the very large number of cases in
which no child is bom to be an evidence
of a wf .nan’s fall, so, considering these
things, it is very probable that matters
are even worse (they can’t possibly be
better) than they look and yet they
are so bad that it is difficult to see how
they could be very much worse. And
though N.S. Wales, judging by its illegiti-
macy rate, is the least moral place in Aus-
tralasia, still the other States are not very
much better. It isn’t professed, even by
the most furious of the monkey-shave clan,
that more than a fraction of the adult
feminine community consists of barmaids.
The awful statistics quoted above don’t
represent the moral atmosphere of the hotel
bar, but the atmosphere outside—the one
into which it is proposed to eject the bar
siren for her soul’s health. The monkey-
shave people have been cleaning up the
morals of this outer world for centuries, and
charging for the work—and if they are not
ashamed of the results they ought to be.
* * * *
It is claimed also that the allurements of
the siren behind the bar lead men to drink
when they otherwise would not, though it
might be as reasonably suggested that many
a man who wouldn’t mind making a hog of
himself before another man would strive not
to be a complete hog in the presence of a
woman. Especially if he cared so much for
the woman as to go to an hotel on her account
he would strive to go there sober on her
account. And as the consumption of liquor
per head is larger in the United States,
where the barmaid is unheard of (see
Coghlan’s “Seven Colonies ” for 1900, page
417), than in Australasia, where the barmaid
flourishes, there is better evidence that she
is an influence for sobriety than that her
presence promotes drunkenness. Apparently
her smiles and her curls distract many men
from their second whisky or their third beer.
In evidence of this, the wild-eyed reformers
can be referred to several fashionable bars
both in Sydney and Melbourne where only
men are employed, and where, perhaps for
lack of distraction, drinking goes on in a
swift, business-like way seldom to be seen
in the woman-managed establishment. It
is also claimed, and with perfect truth, that
the lady who hands out the beer hears much
bad language such as no woman ought to
bear. And if the people who want to eject
her from the bar had any inhabited place for
her to go to where she wouldn’t hear bad
language, their case would be a great deal
better than it is. Unfortunately, there is no
such place in Australia. The language to
be heard outside almost any churcb in this
country is awful.
• * • a
Certainly, the abolished hand-maiden of
the bar (if she is abolished) will have no
need to starve. There is room for the whole
tribe of her in domestic service—often under
better conditions than she enjoys at present,
for in many cases her position is both hard
and unprofitable. Then a man would take
her place behind the fusel-oil, and being
thus supplied with a billet he might be able
to marry and do something to honorably
help along the diminishing birth-rate. And
many households which are now distracted
by the impossibility of obtaining domestic
aid, even at good wages, might be brightened
by the ex-barmaid’s assistance, and that
might also be of some indirect help to the
birth-rate. Certainly, the situation is
anomalous. Women are doing work, which
may fairly be called men’s work, in
hotels—also in offices and many other places ;
men are unemployed ; women’s work, in
the way of domestic service, remains un-
done: and men can’t marry for want of work;
and the old maid multiplies lamentably in
the land. It doesn’t require the eloquence
of the preacher brigade to point out that
these things are absurd and ill-managed, and
that it would be a much more convenient
world to live in if they were better managed.
But the kitchen is the only sphere of woman’s
labor which is not over-crowded. It is prac-
tically the only one that can be offered to the
deposed barmaid, and, by some process not
easy to trace, a hopeless social stigma has
come to attach to the domestic servant or
kitchen officer. All the other drawbacks of
her position might be got over by mutual
arrangement or arbitration, but that one is
beyond arbitration. A man of some stand-
ing may marry a barmaid, a milliner, a shop-
girl, a governess, a typewriting lady, a houri
of doubtful character out of the leg-show, or
a houri about whose character the doubts
have long since changed to certainty, and
yet not be a subject of mirth for all
his old associates, and he can present
his wife to these old associates with-
out anything dreadful happening. But,
if he marries a domestic servant,
for some unwritten reason he can’t so pre-
sent her. And as for the woman, she may
be a drunkard and yet reform ; she may be
divorced under awful circumstances and get
over it in a social sense ; she may be charged
with a wildly sensational murder, and if she
is good to look upon she will receive at least
six eligible offers of marriage while in gaol
awaiting trial; she may be a Magdalen and
yet repent—but unless she is content to
marry the butcher’s boy there is no place of
repentance for her if she has been a servant.
Even if she marries the butcher’s boy he
may rise to be a wholesale butcher some
day, and then he may be sorry.
* • * •
So long as domestic service is the chief
alternative, and so long as men make that just
about the same thing as social suicide, the bar-
maid will remain a barmaid to the best of her
ability, and it is no use for the Stiggins or
the archbishop to offer platitudes on the sub-
ject. They both point out quite truly that
domestic service is an honorable and often
comfortable and well-paid calling, but the
smallest and greasiest Stiggins of them all
would lose caste in his conventicle if he
married a domestic, and if the archbishop
did so he would probably go mad by reason
of the consequences, and cast himself and his
gaiters into the sea. Neither of them by
any chance acts up to his theory. The
preacher man will address the humblest
shopgirl or type-writer maiden of his
acquaintance as Miss Smith, but the habit
of addressing the domestic help as Mary is
incurable. Consequently the domestic help
is mostly a remnant or human sediment who
doesn’t mind being called Mary, and who,
feeling herself lost, doesn’t care whether she
sweeps under the bed or not.
# * * •
Probably compulsory domestic service will
have to be resorted to some day. That will
not only help to solve a difficult problem,
but it will also lift the social stigma off the
kitchen industry by main force, and then the
Stigginses of the day can ask for the aboli-
tion of the barmaid with some semblance of
decency, there being another respectable
avocation open to her. Compulsory military
service for men is common enough, and
even Australia will almost certainly find it
necessary to have it some day. Com-
pulsory domestic service for women —say
from the age of 19 to 21—is no greater a
hardship. Compulsory military service has
lifted the stigma off the gun-carrying occu-
pation. In England the voluntary soldier,
though an object of admiration in the mass,
is looked upon individually as the scum of
the community ; in France or Germany, just
because every man has to take his turn in
the ranks, the private is as respectable as
anybody else. The domestic servant would
also be as respectable as anybody else if the
daughters of the aristocracy had to put in
their term of servitude in somebody else’s
kitchen along with the remainder of the
female community, and the experience would
probably do the daughters of the aristocracy
a lot of good. There is the same reason for
the compulsory female in the kitchen as
there is for the compulsory male in the army
—a great national demand and an insufficient
supply ; and they could both oe locked up
on exactly the same principle for refusal to
obey reasonable orders. Over and above the
compulsory force there wouldalways be a class
who would stick to the business from choice,
but their status would be completely altered,
An industry in which the Chief Justice’s
daughters had to take their turn with the
rest of the community would have become
respectable. The hand of social recognition
and the damp paw of Christian brotherhood
and sisterhood would be extended to it.
But, as things are, the lady who furnishes
the drinks isn’t taking any of it —and quite
naturally so. In her present sphere, the
Church and other dignified moral organisa-
tions may, at least, call on her and remon-
strate with her as a supposedly Lost Sister ;
if she abandoned the alleged evil ways of the
beer keg and the whisky bottle, and took to
the only woman’s trade in which there is
room for a rush of new applicants, they
wouldn’t even do that. The writer knew
one Scotch parson years ago who carried his
practical Christianity to the extent of making
bis servant-girl dine at the family table, but
he was a solitary specimen, and he died in a
lunatic asylum.
* • • *
To sum it all up : Only a few women "«ave
independent means. Marriage is a chance
which comes to some only in middle age, and
to some not at all. When it comes it is no
guarantee that the woman won’t have to
hustle just as hard for a living as she had to
before, also to keep the children and to find
the money for divorce expenses. The trade
of the Magdalen is unprofitable and the
wages of sin are harder to collect than the
salary of a Turkish army. The honest occu-
pations which a woman of refinement and
education can resort to without sinking as
completely in public estimation as Bishop
Smith would do, if he dropped out of his
present sphere and was found in the bottle-
oh business, are over-crowded and mostly
ill-paid. And the Stiggins party wants to
close one of them for a purely selfish motive
—that it may enjoy at somebody else’s ex-
pense the inward glow under the crumpled
shirt-front which comes of being a good
Stiggins, as the Stiggins clan understands
goodness. The number of people in this
world who are willing to be good at someone
else’s expense is truly marvellous.
The Drought and Other Matters.
In view of the fact that the drought is, at present,
even worse than usual, the Freetrade party comes
forward with the brilliant proposal that the food
duties should be suspended. This, it is claimed,
will make food cheaper, so that the farmer, having
little to sell, will get still lower prices for what he
has. Then things will be even worse with him
than they are now, but meanwhile the rich city
importing man will make a little more commission,
and screw a little more profit out of the agri-
culturist’s distress. Australia is still, or has
been till quite lately, exporting meat to
London and gram to South Africa. What
scarcity there is arises, not so much through the
supply of food being less than the demand, as
through the export, in order to pay interest on
the country’s foreign debts, of food which should
be retained for local consumption. The duties
are not high enough to block imports to any
serious extent, if the people who are chiefly con-
cerned had the money to pay for them. To the
man out-back, who has no money and no credit,
the news that, at some seaport 100 or 200 or 300
miles away, the Jd. tax had been taken off maizena
would amount to very small consolation.
• * * *
The present trouble begins with the fact that a
huge proportion of Australia’s agricultural and
pastoral industry rests on a rotten foundation at
all times. _ Nearly half of Australia has an
average rainfall of iess than 10 inches per annum
—a very large proportion has barely five inches—
and that country, except in very rare seasons, is
not fit for either man or beast. Over two-thirds
of Australia has an average rainfall of under 20
inches per annum. There is no permanent hope
in that kind of country unless water can be found
on an immense scale to irrigate with. South
Australia, barring Eyre’s Peninsula and the little
scrap of country in the south-east, is all within
the belt where the average rainfall is under 10
inches, and there is no reasonable hope that the
10-inch country will pay its way unless under
very different management from any it has
had up to date. A few unusually good sea-
sons, combined with a huge expenditure of
loan moneys on public works, and liberal
borrowing from banks and financial institutions
(till they went broke) kept some of this sort
of country afloat for a few years. But the Govern-
ment can’t build railways into it for ever, and no
sane financial institutions are ever likely to lend
money on any large scale to the 10-inch country
any more, and the rabbits have come, and the
good seasons are too rare to give it any chance
of standing on its own merits as a regular thing.
* * * *
New South Wales is, comparatively speaking,
one of the favored portions of Australia. Most
of it can’t reckon on a rainfall of anything like 20
inches per annum as a general thing (all these cal-
culations are based on matters as they were
before the present great drought set in, and if recent
drought years are taken into account there is a
serious lowering of the average all round), yet
N.S. W. is one of the most fortunate sections of this
continent. In 1882 the cultivated area of N.S.W.
was only 584,000 acres, and the produce
of this area was worth £7 14s. sd. per acre.
Since then the cultivated area has increased
every year, and the value per acre of the crop has
diminished, till in 1901 there were 2,446,000 acres
under cultivation, and the yield was only worth £2
Bs. Bd. per acre. Apparently most of the really
good land was already occupied in 1882, and the
increase since then has been mainly a spreading
out into worse and worse country. The exhaustion
of the soil through bad farming, and the increase
of landlordism are partly responsible, but a great
deal must be set down to the want of good country
to go to. In good years and bad, as the farmer
extended his operations, the average value of his
produce per acre steadily dropped. Now, even
taking good and bad soil together, and throwing
the splendidly fertile Hunter Valley in with the
rest, the average yield isn’t enough to make going
on the land a promising undertaking.
... *
The Government has borrowed, and is bor-
rowing, immense sums to “develop the magnifi-
cent natural resources ” of this kind of country—
borrowing 10s. very often in order to make 2d.
worth of desert into a garden worth 3|d. Since
1882 no less than £40,000,000 has been borrowed
in N.S.W. alone, mostly to develop the agricul-
tural and pastoral industries with railways and
other works, and the amount payable in interest
on this £40,000,000 is nearly £1,400,000 a year.
And with all this immense expenditure, the value
of the output of wool and agricultural produce has
only increased by a little over £1,900,000 - from
£11,680,000 to £13,600,000 per annum. Moreover,
these industries covered much more ground in
1901 than they did in 1882—in agriculture alone
there was nearly five times the area under cultiva-
tion ; and there can’t be far short of twice the
number of people living on the industries. When
allowance is made for their support, there is a
vastly smaller profit than there was in 1882—and
£1,400,000 a year more interest to be paid. The
best part of £40,000,000 has gone in turning 2d.
worth of desert into a garden which—after allow-
ing for the. cost, of cultivation—is only worth
And in this comparison no attempt has
been made to take advantage of the seasons. The
year 1882 was also the middle of a great drought,
but in those days settlement hadn’t been pushed
out so far into the area where 10 or 15 inches of
rain represents a respectable year.
• ♦ * *
But during this period, when the expenditure
of the best part of £40,000,000 in loans increased
agriculture and wool production by £1,900,000 per
annum, the manufacturing production of N.S.W.
increased by about £5,000,000 per annum. The
semi-Protective tariffs of Parkes and M'Millan
and Bruce Smith, of Dibbs and of George
Reid (who also protected a number of leading
industries) were largely responsible for this.
These manufactures did not cost the country any-
thing like £1,400,000 a year' in interest on loans
spent in opening up a desert so that the desolate
cocky and the distressed pastoralist could get
their produce to market. They didn’t burden the
country with a huge railway deficit, and another
deficit through spending loan moneys on works even
less productive than railways. They didn't render
increased taxation necessary to make good the
interest on loans spent in “opening up the
country.” The value of N.S.W. manufactures,
small as they are, is now nearly twice the value of
N.S.W. agriculture, and is much more than the
value of N.S.W.’s wool product. For some un-
explainable reason it is the custom to describe the
cultivation of the exotic sheep and the exotic
bullock, and the growth of the exotic wheat and
oat, and other things equally unnatural to Aus-
tralia, as this country’s “natural industries,” and
when they were extended by the opening up of
the interior at a cost in interest which exceeds the
whole extra profit derived from their expansion, that
is described as the natural spread of “the great
producing industries.” On the other hand, manu-
factures, which only ask for a reasonable measure
of Protection, which return revenue by reason of


these Protective duties instead of costing ft huge
Sum in interest, Which pay better' Wages, which
grow far faster, which haven’t to be pampered by
free water trains and reduced railway rates for
starving stock, which never cost the country large
Sums in free immigration, and which didn’t ruin a
lot of financial institutions in loans on waterless
Country —manufactures, for some reason or other
are habitually denounced as exotics, parasites,
cormorants, monopolies, and other objectionable
circumstances.
• • • •
If the comparison is restricted to the period
from 1892 to 1900—the last year for which returns
of all industries are available —the results are
even more striking than those shown above.
In that period the total value of N.S.W.
production increased by about £5,600,000, and
of this nearly £3,000,000 was an increase in
the value of manufactured goods; £1,500,000 an
increase in mineral production; and the “great
natural industries” showed an improvement of
about £1,000,000 among them.
• * * *
Country lands yield N.S.W. a large revenue,
but that has no bearing on the case. The agricul-
tural industry and the wool industry must live by
what they can produce, and the amount they pro-
duce is the sole test of their value. And,
valuable as they are, it is a fact that, despite
the most expensive coddling, bonusing and
pauperising with State aid, they hold out
less prospect for the future than do N.S.W.’s
manufacturing industries. Also, there is this
further consideration to be borne in mind. If
N.S.W. isn’t to go bankrupt, it must either export
a great deal more or import a great deal less. If
it is to keep from going constantly further into
debt (which must mean insolvency in the end), it
requires to export fully £4,600,000 a year more
than it imports, and the only way to do that is by
buying less or selling more. Apparently there is
very little chance of selling more raw material,
because the country with the average rainfall of
10 to 15 inches isn’t productive, and because we
get a steadily decreasing price for our exported
goods. The only resource is to buy less manu-
factured goods—and manufacture for ourselves.
Again, N.S.W. oan’t hope to attract population
unless it has profitable employment for that
population—in the last ten years it only gained
336 people by immigration, and during that period
it imported and paid the passages of nearly 500
free immigrants. In 1900 the persons employed in
N- S. W. manufactures prod uced £137 worth of goods
per head ; the agricultural population produced
to the value of £B9 per head. Immigrants are not
likely to come to N.S.W. in large numbers to go
on the land upon that basis. Agricultural and
pastoral industries are certainly necessary, and
should be encouraged. _ Manufactures which are
not blighted by periodical droughts, which don’t
require to be boosted up by huge loans, which pay
better wages, and which are the only possible
solution of the problem as to how this country is
to pay its way and avoid losing its population,
are still more necessary and more deserving of
encouragement. Agricultural and pastoral pur-
suits are not natural industries over three-fourths,
or more than three-fourths, of N.S.W. ; out of the
last 28 years 19 have been drought years in N.S.W.,
insofar that in each of these 19 years from 600,000
to 8,000,000 sheep have perished through
drought, and industries which depend on rain are
wholly unnatural in such a country. Manufac-
tures are natural industries wherever there are
coal and brains, and enough raw material to make
the people’s own clothes and boots on the premises.
N.S.W. has spent more millions, or tens of millions,
than it is pleasant to think of now in indirect
bonuses to its agricultural and pastoral industry.
It is time it gave more consideration to manufac-
tures which are not nearly so hungry for bonuses,
which only ask for a moderate amount of Protec-
tion, and which give better value for the assistance
received.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Reduction of Members.
The See Government has definitely committed
itself to a Referendum on the question of
a reduction in the dimensions of the State Parlia-
ment—at least if there is any meaning in this
clause of the Governor’s speech it has done so :
A measure will be submitted to you for inviting a direct
vote of the people upon the question of a reduction in the
number of members of Parliament, and the necessary
legislation will be introduced to give effect to their
decision.
Now, the Referendum is a good democratic device
when it isn’t faked; when it is faked it is just a
little worse than useless, for it conveys misleading
impressions and records opinions that don’t exist.
The present writer hopes to be at the poll early
on Referendum day, and to vote for reducing the
N.S.W. State Parliament from its present size
(about 190 members) to 80 or thereabouts by
abolishing the whole 65 M’s.L.C. and about 45 of
the M’s.L A. In his own narrow circle he knows
about 40 persons who want to be there for the
same purpose. But if, as is rumored, the
electors are simply to be allowed to vote for the
retention of the Assembly at its present size, or its
reduction to a number arbitrarily fixed by the
See Govt., there isn’t much in it. If an elector is
only permitted to vote for a thing he doesn’t want,
or for another thing that he doesn’t want, or
else to throw up his rights as a member of a self-
governing community and not vote at all, it is
difficult to see where his advantage comes in. If
the Referendum is to be of any real value, even
so far as concerns the mere reduction matter, the
questions submitted to the electors should be
these:—
(1) Are you in favor of the abolition of the Legislative
Council (to be answered with a plain Yes or No)?
(2) If in favor of the retention of the Legisla-
tive Council, do you wish its numbers to remain un-
limited as at present—present membership being 65 (Yes
or No)?
(3) If in favor of reduction, what number do you wish
it reduced to (fill in number) ?
(4) Are you in favor of the retention of the Legislative
Assembly at its present size of 125 members (Yes or no)?
(5) If in favor of reduction, to what number do you
wish it reduced (fill in number)?
That is about the smallest space into which the
real problem can be compressed. As regards
question 1, if the majority is for abolition
of the Council then that matter will be
settled, and questions 2 and 3 won’t count.
If there is a majority for the retention of
the Council, the returning officer will go on to
question 2, and supposing there is a majority
there for retention as at present then the matter
will be settled, and question 3 will cease to have
any public interest. But if the majority on ques-
tion 2 is for reduction then it will simply be a
matter of finding out what number is most
favored under question 3 as the number to which
the Council is to be reduced. The two questions
as regards the Assembly will have to be dealt with
in the same fashion. Of course it is quite possible
that the defeated minority in favor of retaining
the Assembly at its present size (question 4) will
number 60,000 votes, while the triumphant
majority which (under question 5) decides what
particular figure the future Assembly is to be
reduced to numbers only 25,000.*" That can’t be
helped. So long as there is a majority for reduc-
tion then the anti-reduction minority must be
dropped out and the majority must be left to
decide the details of the question. The great
point is that this will be a real referendum —one
which will put the whole of the reduction question
before the electors. If that is not done it is
hardly worth having any referendum at all.
♦-
The Open Door.
Dick Seddon of Maoriland, now running wild in
S’Africa, has gone through several stages of
derangement over there. For a while he declared
himself in favor of a preferential tariff on British
goods imported into “the colonies.” Then, as
he tramped excitedly up and down the country,
raising a bigger and bigger dust-cloud as he fled
through the land, he got beyond that stage, and
the latest advices are that he advocates all the
empire keeping an “open door” to British pro-
ducts. This is a case of going the complete hog
with a vengeance. The Open Door necessarily
means the free admission of British goods, and
Seddon is, and has been for over nine years, the
head of a Government which banged its door more
furiously on British products than almost any other
door in the empire. The latest complete statis-
tics available (1900-1901) show that New South
Wales taxed all British goods that came
into the country at the rate of about £5 3s.
per cent. ; South Australia, £8 ss. per cent. ;
Victoria, £lol7s. per cent. ; Westralia, £l6 per
cent.; Queensland, £l9 16s. per cent.; Maoriland,
£2O Bs. per cent. Seddon’s Government dis-
courages and damages British trade and manufac-
tures with a much heavier tariff than Cape Colony
does —it was to the people of Cape Colony that
Digger Dick spoke so severely about the Open
Door. Seddon smites his beloved Mother
Country with nearly twice as heavy a tariff as
Paul Kruger’s Government did, and with a tariff
tiventy times as heavy as that of Holland. And
his country buys no'larger a,proportion of its
imports from Great Britain than the Common-
wealth does, though it talks so much more about
the necessity of trading with its beloved ancestor;
the latest statistics show that the Commonwealth
bought from Britain direct £25,363,346 worth out
of its total of £41,387,944 foreign purchases,
while Maoriland bought £6,504,484 worth
out of £10,646,096, the proportion being
in each case 61 per cent, bought from
Britain and 39 per cent, from other countries.
Big Dick Seddon certainly speaks more silly
Imperialism than all the Australian politicians
put together, but in practice he struggles harder
to damage British trade than any of them. The
Open Door man even taxes British imports more
heavily than any European State, which isn’t
what might be fairly expected from such a loud-
mouthed patriot. Of course, however, there isn’t
going to be any Open Door—unless Seddon is
going away for good at an early date. If that
door was opened it would be necessary to increase
the direct taxation nearly fourfold to make good
the loss. It would mean a general disappearance
of customs revenue, or very nearly so, for hardly
any save free British goods would come in, and
as nearly half Maoriland’s public income arises
through its policy of damaging British industries
through the customs, the fall would be something
incredible. This will not matter to Seddon if he
is going away to be a duke or something, and is
only coming back to open the fiscal door and pack
up, but it would matter a great deal to Seddon’s
deiuded country. If Richard of Kumara doesn’t
get his title or his governorship, and has to decide
to spend his declining years in Maoriland, it may
be safely wagered that he will once more explain
that he was wrongly reported. It is the misfor-
tune of excited politicians always to be wrongly
reported.
4
The Fat Socialist.
When capitalists fall out, the public are likely
to get back a little of their own. The possibilities
of Pierpont Morgan’s shipping-ring nave so put
the fear of God into the Australian Fatman that
he has begun to squeal in the tones hitherto only
used by visionaries of the advanced school of
labor politics. Months, weeks, even days, ago,
Melbourne’s anointed Fats were arising in
their wrath to declaim against Socialistic
legislation. Private enterprise had made
the world and the British Empire what
it was; the people of this glorious nation
would never submit to inquisitorial interference
with the liberty of the subject, the trend of
modern legislation was contrary to human nature,
and was bound to end in disaster—and so forth.
W. S. Gilbert’s gondoliers modified their repub-
lican principles on learning that they had in-
herited a throne. “When I said kings I
meant had kings,” remarked Guiseppe ; and
the Australian capitalist is now tumbling
over himself to explain that he meant bad
socialistic legislation, bad interference with
the liberty of the subject, bad measures which
were contrary to human nature. He can conceive
of socialistic legislation which would prove an
incalculable boon to the community—and to him-
self. Of all the institutions in the Commonwealth,
probably the most abjectly conservative and
obstructive, not even excepting Vic. Legislative
Council, is the Melbourne Chamber of Commerce.
Its members represent the big importing interests;
a few are manufacturers as well; and all have
become famous by their bitter and uncompro-
mising hostility to the Factories Act, food
adulteration laws, and all such measures. Conse-
quently the remarks of the president, Robert
Reid, M.L.C., come as a bolt from the blue ruin
of Toryism. It was the Morgan shipping-ring
that made Reid, M.L.C., sit back in anger, and
say (Age, May 27) —
Under our flag these combinations could not exist, but
at the same time the control of shipping from Great
Britain to Australia was in the hands of a ring. (Hear,
hear.) Should these trusts be formed in the Australian
trade it might be necessary to introduce legislation to
make such schemes illegal, for moderate freights were in-
dispensable to the success of the Commonwealth.
Twenty years ago 275. 6d. a ton was considered a fair rate
of freight between Great Britain and Australia, but by
limiting the number of ships placed on the berth the
combination of brokers, by a cunning system of rebates,
had since maintained an average of 475. 6d. The public
ownership of our railways prevented the shipping trusts
from securing control in that direction, and he hoped we
would never lose them to capitalists. If these combina-
tions grew, nothing would save us from disaster but the
ownershipjof steamers by the Government.
These, it must be remembered, are not the state-
ments of the Yarra Bank orators or the Trades
Hall council, but of the president of the Chamber
of Commerce; and the crowd of stout gentlemen
who listened attentively said “Hear, hear!”
Reid next turned to the Pacific cable, gave his
fellow capitalists of the Eastern Extension Co.
particular sheol over the way they used their
monopoly in the past, and finished up by remark-
ing, amid further “ Hear, hears,” “ It is high time
that the merchants of the British Empire
awakened to the importance of State-owned
cables.” Thus we have open and unqualified ad-
vocacy of socialism in its most advanced form,
coming from a source least expected by all who
have not closely watched the recent movements of
the world’s traders. Only a few years back the
Tories of Victoria pleaded hard, not only for the
leasing, but the absolute sale of the railways.
State-owned steamers were advocated at the
termination of the shipping strike of ’9O,
and, where the idea did not meet with derision,
erudite gentlemen of the Reid type produced
formidable arrays of figures to prove the utter
impossibility of such a tiling. State-owned cables
were equally a subject of derision a few years ago.
Only tne first beginnings of a change are apparent
as yet, but the symptoms are unmistakable. And
as for the reason—well, it is the old struggle of the
poor and the rich. A few years ago Robert Reid
was the rich man (all wealth is comparative) scof-
fing at State Socialism as a dream and cursing
the insolence of the poor. Now he is a
poor man (all poverty is comparative) beginning
to cry for State Socialism and cursing
the arrogance of the rich. Robert Reid
may be as rich as he was a few years ago;
but now that the riches of a trading corpora-
tion begin to be measured by the £30,000,000
capital of an American trading syndicate, he is
just a swagman by comparison. His class were
autocrats a few years ago; if the huge dreams of
men like Pierpont Morgan, and the even
larger men who may come after him,
are realised, Reid will be to them smaller
than the shearer or wharf-laborer was
to him. When it begins to seem possible
that one great bulging Anglo-American syndicate
may yet control all the cables of the world and
practically all the shipping of the world, and treat
the Robert Reid class of comparatively small
traders as Bumble used to treat the paupers, then
the Robert Reid class begins to see the advan-
tages of State-owned cables and steamers, and the
blessings of “ Socialism in our Time.” It only
begins to do so as yet. If the American syndicate
business collapses by its own weight, and the
scare passes over, the Reid class will become
Tory again. If the American syndicate trouble
grows and multiplies, Robert Reid will subscribe
to the Worker yet, and become a Labor candidate.
4
The N.S.W. Labor Party.
Results of the Pyrmont and Inverell bye-elections
suggest that the N.S.W. Labor Party holds not
alone the balance of power, but the actual power
in N.S.W. so soon as it cares to claim its heritage.
In the political fog caused by the meeting of a warn
and vapory mass known as Mr. Tweedlesee, with
a cold and vapory mass known as Mr. Tweedle-
lee, there is only one clear outline to be
distinguished by the elector, and that is the Labor
Party policy. The elector has, as a rule, a horror
of vagueness, a dislike of almost undistinguishable
vapory masses; he would rather vote for a man
he doesn’t like than for a foggy blur on the horizon
which doesn’t even know what it is itself. So
Mr. John See and Mr. Solemn Lee are hopeless
circumstances if they are faced by any definite
party at the next elections. But that party
must face them, face them both, and abandon
all alliance with either. Further, it must revise
its policy and platform, so as to make it more
national and less sectional, and that not by
omitting anything, but by adding much. The
problem of State finance—the borrowing madness,
the figure-faking of the present system—must be
faced, and faced with honest purpose. Let the
Labor party in N.S.W. shape its platform on the
lines of John Ballance’s programme in Maori-
land with an even stronger financial reform policy
than Ballance had, and it will carry 70 seats at
the next State election.
4
The Great Bow Up North.
The Queensland Continuous Government is work-
ing hard just now. Abetted almost universally
by the Northern Press the PHiLP-ites are doing
their best to bring the Federal Government into
disrepute by way of getting ready for next
Federal elections. The universal cry has gone up
that the sugar industry is ruined—although the
sugar districts are as active as ever (and em-
ploying—there’s the rub —much white labor in the
cane-field), and the C.S.R. Co. still pays its 10 per
cent, dividends. The rotten state of Queensland’s
finance is also attributed to the Barton Cabinet,
which is held responsible for the purchase of the
Seaforth estate, the spending of £200,000 on two
useless dredges at present rotting in the Brisbane
river; the building of 20 tank-engines (cost,
£88,000) which can’t be used until the lines have
been relaid to bear them; the subsidising of a
Brisbane gutter-organ to the tune of £lO a
week, &c., &c. And recently Cobb and Co.
(whose manager is a henchman of Philp
and Co.’s) decided to stop their coach and mail-
service, and thereby throw W. Q. out of gear, and
heap endless discredit on P.M.-G. Drake— as a
reward for his stand on a question of Kanaka
legislation. For days, the Courier and kindred
organs published articles demonstrating the utter
impossibility of Cobb and Co.’s continuing to run
owing to the impracticability of Drake and the
Federal Cabinet, and when the P.M.-G. (without
granting concessions at all) showed Cobb and Co.,
in a burst of unusual firmness, that they were not
indispensable, that mighty firm soon drew in its
horns and re commenced running its coaches,
despite the fact that the PHiLP-ite press had just
proved conclusively that running them was an
utter impossibility. The real grievance is that
the Federal Parliament has proved too democratic.
The anti-Kanaka Bill will rob the Philp crowd
of its S.S. island serfs; the Aliens Restriction
Bill will make its country uncomfortably white;
and the Federal franchise will eventually force a
broad and democratic State franchise. Hence the
necessity for besmirching the Federal Parliament
and especially the Q. Representatives, and the
need for preparing the way for a complete revolu-
tion at next Federal election. But it won’t
matter. No peg-vote at the Fed. elections, and
without the peg-vote the Philp Govt, is as lonely
and helpless as a pelican in the wilderness.
4
The Western Trouble.
“ T.S.” offers some suggestions about the drought
country:—
One of the largest present troubles of N.S.W. is the
bitter cry of the Western lessee for a reduction of his
rent. Out in the dismal country, where there are 10 to 20in.
rain in a good year and much less in a bad one—where
there are dust, and rabbits, and a decaying population,
and bones, and hopeless mortgages—where there used to
be 16,000,000 sheep, and there are now 5,000,000 skeletons
leaning up against the fences and pretending to be alive—
the Government is most of the time in trouble. In bad
seasons it is piteously dunned to reduce the rent, and in
good ones it can’t raise the rent again, and it is dunned
for railways and other assistance. The question begins
to arise whether the whole treatment of the West wasn’t
a mistake from the beginning. It was dealt with as a
part of N.S.W., whereas it might have been better if
N.S.W., for all business purposes, was considered as
going no further West than longitude 147 —a little t’other
side of Nyngan—and no further north than latitude 34,
and all the rest was treated as a sick relative in low cir-
cumstances. It is difficult to formulate any scheme that
is likely to meet the case of the dreadful country beyond
the line marked 147. But these ideas are suggested as a
new departure:
(1) That in the area west ot longitude 147 and north of
latitude 34 agricultural settlement be discouraged (ex-
cept in specially favored spots) as a gross cruelty to the
settler. In the favored spots aforementioned reservations
might be made for agricultural settlement.
(2) That the rest of the country be regarded for, say,
SO years, with a great probability of renewal, as pastoral
country pure and simple.
(3) That it be let as such, with rigid stipulations against
overstocking and against the holding of more than a cer-
tain area by one lessee, and with such agreements as
may be considered advisable re rabbit destruction, im-
provements, etc.
(4) That the rent be about one-third of the present
figure, but that the pastoralists be subject in addition to
an income tax of 4s. in the £, with an extra tax on
absentee proprietors ( i.e ., non-Australian proprietors).
The exact amount is difficult to arrive at, but 4s. is sug-
gested, subject to further consideration, as a figure that
might meet the case. This would mean that in good
seasons the State would get a considerable share of the
profits. In bad seasons the pastoralist. would be relieved
by an automatic process, and would pay hardly anything.
But the Government’s claim must come before that of the
mortgagee. Profit must be defined as the amount
received from the station, plus any increase in the stock,
and minus working and management expenses and any
decrease in the stock.
(5) The mortgagee to take his chance of getting his
interest out of the balance of the profit.
(6) The money obtained in rent and income tax to be
set aside as a fund for the improvement of the western
country by water conservation, locking rivers and creeks,
sinking artesian wells and otherwise—in short, as a fund
for rescuing a big State asset from utter destruction.
This idea is based on the assumption that the amount
the West would yield in customs, excise, stamps, &c.,
would pay for its share of the cost of government, for
education, roads, gaols, mail carriage and sundries. It
probably wouldn’t do so, but that can’t be helped. By
setting aside all the land revenue which could be obtained
from the western pastoral country for its improvement
the West would have a chance to work out its own salva-
tion, if there was any salvation in it. Any railways made
out that way would, of course, have to support them-
selves as other railways do, and their deficit would come
out of general revenue. The arrangement would not
interfere with any composition the State might be able
to arrange with existing mortgagees, but it should be a
hard-and-fast condition that no mortgage or lien of
any kind, made after the new law came in force,
would be of any account—that the mortgage law was
suspended as regards pastoral properties west of longi-
tude 147, and north of latitude 34. In good times, of
course, the pastoralist would try and cheat the State out
of its income-tax, and it would be the business of the
State auditor to see that he didn’t do it. In bad times
there would be hardly any revenue, and no great question
of re-appraisement could arise. The fixed rent would
just be about sufficient to prevent leases being held
unused. The idea is to treat the western country as a
kind of sick brother, and spend his income on medical
attendance pending further developments. If he dies
under these circumstances it is difficult to see how it can
be helped.
4
Arbitration in Working.
It is an unfortunate fact that at the very outset of
its career N.S.W. Arbitration Court should be
obliged to lay stress upon a technical point. The
controversy between the Australian Workers’
Union and the Machine Shearers’ and Shed Em-
ployees’ Union was brought into court by the
secretary, Mr. Macdonell, acting for the former,
and by leading barrister Want, acting for the
latter (which is said to be a union of working men,
just started, with a practically nominal subscrip-
tion). The case alleged by the A.W.U. that the
M.S. and S.E.U. was a bogus union promoted by
the pastoralists merely as a means of blinding the
Arbitration Court, got a set back almost at once
when Mr. Justice Cohen pointed out to Mr.
Macdonell, who wished to produce certain evi-
dence, that—
Now he wanted to open a new case, supporting his
position by altogether new evidence. The anticipation of
the Court had been that the case would be argued on the
evidence that was before the Registrar, on the assump-
tion that all the evidence available had been brought
before the Registrar.
Of course, Mr. J ustice Cohen was quite right.
It would be an intolerable position if a litigant,
having set forth his case and given due notice of
it to the other side, could in Court turn round and
say: “No, that is not my case. I have some quite
new facts here.” The whole theory of legal pro-
cess in a civil case is that, by plaint, plea, and, if
necessary, demurrer, the issue should be narrowed
down to certain points for the decision of the
Court j and this safeguard to justice is most
essential. But it puts trades-unions in this
position, that they must either have officials who
will make it their business to understand the
technicalities of the Arbitration Court process, or
employ lawyers. The former is by far the more
desirable alternative, and it is not at all an im-
possible one.
4,
“E.F. Peacock’s dream of a reconstructed Vic,
Ministry, with himself still in the same old place,
has been shattered by the motion which his flabby
adversary Irvine is moving. Irvine is practically
certain of getting a majority to agree: “That the
House expresses its emphatic disapproval of
Ministers signing their resignations and continuing
thereafter to administer their departments.”
Taverner, the tactician of the Country Party,
will cross the floor with at least half-a-
dozen other deserters, and the recognised Oppo-
sition will vote as one Gillies against the
father of the Factories Act. The numbers
are up, and Peacock’s tail is down—very
down. It doesn’t say much for the morality of
Australian politics that Irvine’s excellent excuse
for attacking the Ministry was not generally
thought of a week ago. The action of Peacock’s
colleagues in signing their resignations last year
on the understanding that they didn’t want the
document to be taken seriously for another five
months, was contemptible, though not more so
than Peacock’s acquiescence in the compromise.
But Victoria is so accustomed to contemptible
political tricks and arrangements that the recent
exposure of the provisional resignation business
excited very little comment. Everybody ought
to have felt disgusted—but didn’t. Irvine’s
motion of censure is sound in principle and
worthy of all respect, like the Psalms, and Lord
Hopetoun and everything else which a right-
thinking citizen mechanically lifts his hat to. But
it is not honest in the wording. Vic. Leg. Assem-
bly does not emphatically disapprove of Ministers
drawing salary for five months after they have
gone through a form of declaring themselves unfit
to hold office* It knows it ought to, but it
doesn’t.
4,
The meeting held at North Sydney, last week, to
demand a reduction in the size of N.S.W. State
Parliament showed its real intentions when aider-
men, and land agents, and financial agents, and
other public-spirited characters, started to demand
also the abolition of payment of members. Some
extracts from the daily paper report:
Alderman Petrie -said that ... we were grossly over-
governed in proportion to our population, and he ven-
tured to say that the present State Parliament was the
worst we had had for 25 years. (Applause.) .. . For
himself, he thought it would be better were there no pay-
ment of members. (Hear, hear.)
Mr. Goddard seconded the motion. . . . The worst Act
of Parliament in this country was, he considered, that
providing for the payment of members. (Applause.)
Alderman Duff supported the motion. He strongly
deprecated the payment of members.
But, as it happens, N.S.W. isn’t taking any more


AAsl
OAWMILL MACHINERY.
° BAND or CIRCULAR MILLS, very heavy for
hardwood timber. Complete Outfits of any capa
city. BAND RESAWS. ENGINES. BOILERS-
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
PULP MACHINERY. GRIP PULLEYS.
FLOUR MILLING MACHINERY.
“ ALLIS ” ROLLER FLOUR MILLS on the
UNIVERSAL BOLTER SYSTEM.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 24 Clarence-street, SYDNEY.
patriotic unpaid members. What it is looking
for is patriotic unpaid bank managers, and land-
jobbers who won’t take any commission. The
man who offers to look after the cash without any
salary always excites suspicion, and so long as
banks decline to engage men who are willing to
take care of their money without pay, having a
dark suspicion that these men intend to pay them-
selves, the country can’t do better than follow
suit.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal.. . ;... “ A Runaway Girl.”
Lyceum “In London Town.”
Tiv01i...... Rickards’Co.
Palace “ Facing the Music.”
Criterion “ The Christian.”
Town HAll. Dolores Concerts(June 3 and 5.)
Centenary Hall Newbury-Spada Pops (Saturday).
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ The Thirty Thieves.”
Her Majesty’s. “Much Ado about Nothing.”
Theatre Royal “ The Mariners of England.”
Bijou World’s Entertainers.
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Co.
EXHIEITIONeBUILMNG} Amy oast , e g, ooncerfc .
4
“In London Town,” which followed “In
Sight of St. Paul’s” last Saturday, at Sydney
Lyceum, is the kind of play one expects from the
programme remark: “ Kind hearts are more than
coronets.” Other equally original statements
decorate that useful document. The drama begins
with a fairly good working idea when the mil-
lionaire’s lost daughter is handed over to the blind
beggar as his own, and the latter’s child is passed
on to the man of substance ; but the idea doesn’t
evolve to any very interesting situations, and by
Act 111. it has become wearisome. There is a
gleam of originality in the blind beggar, who is
not a pathetic person, but refreshingly villainous,
lie thrashes small, lame boys, and keeps false coin
hidden away in a manner that would excite sus-
picion even in the police. Alice, the heroine, is a
woeful female for four long acts. In the first she
has the usual highly improper proposal made to
her, though she is an obviously steady lady whose
appearance doesn’t encourage anybody to call
out “Tottie” to her in the street. She
immediately goes to London. In London she
spends her time moving on and off the stage say-
ing “ All is Lost.” She varies this dreary fact
now and then by singing “Asthore.” She was
previously heard singing “ Asthore” in Act I ;
it seems to be the only song she knows. Evi-
dently the metropolis doesn’t take kindly to
“ Asthore,” and Alice is driven to remarking that
beneath the blue surface of the Serpentine there
is Peace. The villain saves her further trouble
by dropping her in. She is fished out a moment
or two later in a neat, dry condition, and is accused
of stealing a bracolet belonging to the supposed
heiress. (About this juncture a d.c. man
on the first night remarked, “ Hee-haw ” in a loud
tone, and was advised by a galleryite who took Alice
seriously to go out and get brains). Alice’s
later escapades consist in all but tumbling off a
London roof by night, and in wandering into the
workhouse where she fails to look pathetic in a
mob cap and red shawl. The workhouse scene is
good in itself, and the incident of the aged male
pauper* who is reproved by his wife for having
admired a girl in a “ stror ” hat 30 years ago is
deep in psychological significance.
*•* * *
Miss Frances Ross does her best with the
commonplace heroine, and the rather colorless
character of the impostor heiress is fairly endurable
in the hands of Miss Harrie Ireland. There is no
pronounced individuality in either of these ladies;
they are simply driven hither and thither by the
winds of calamity and prosperity respectively,
like brown paper blowing up the street and brown
paper blowing down the street. They are restored
to their true positions without any great denoue-
ment. The usefulness of the heroine will doubt-
less make the drama acceptable to the gallery, but
Sydney, as a whole, likes to see its Frances Ross in
an adventurous and well-dressed character instead
of in a !neat, brown frock and a meek and quiet
spirit.- Also, as the millionaire father who dis-
likes his supposed daughter because she doesn’t
take kindly to wet paupers on her drawing-room
carpet, Baker has not much chance to display
anything but a haughty popt and a deep, re-
sonant voice. Baker’s forte is the. love scene,
and he isn’t allowed, to .fall-in love in this present
drama. Arthur Styan makes a good blind villain,
and some interesting, though slight, character
sketches are presented by Harold Carr and others;
but the male performers as a whole do not stand
out. The writer has only a hazy recollection
of the nice young man Frances Ross is understood
to marry, and cannot say whether it was he or
some other dim person who fished her out of the
blue Serpentine. Mr. and Mrs. Bland Holt
are up to their ordinary level as a sailor man
and a girl in a jam and pickle factory respectively.
There is a want of explosion about the scenic
effects “In London Town,” but the scenes from
London low life are more realistic than usual, and
the rows of vegetable carts are to be strongly com-
mended.
*# # *
“Facing the Music” was presented at
Sydney Palace on Saturday—a farcical comedy,
bearing a closer resemblance to the Broadhurst
(American) productions than to the English farces
of the “Confusion” type. “Facing the Music”
has enough essential reality to carry it success-
fully over some minor situations which are un-
natural ; and with brisk playing never allows the
ridiculous to become the absurd. The central
idea is reasonably possible. Mrs. John Smith,
the clergyman’s wife, coming to join her husband,
fqr the first time, in London, is brought by
her cabman in a fog to No. 19 instead of
No. 69 Mona Mansions. At 19 lives Mr. John
Smith, -racing man, whose wife is also return-
ing from a holiday tour in Scotland. There
are so many Smiths in the world, and so many
parent Smiths are too tired to think of any other
front name than John when the fourth boy arrives,
that the prevalence of John Smith is .going to be a
serious problem when the Last Trump sounds and
a whole nation of him arises simultaneously. So
there is nothing inherently improbable in the mis-
take of Mrs. John Smith, wife of the reverend
gentleman. Whether John Smith’s wife _ goes
away for a holiday oftener than other ladies is not
known, but she goes often enough to make her re-
turn quite a feasible event. From this preliminary
mistake theauthor has evolved a gorgeouscrowd of
embarrassments. There are two Mr. John Smiths,
two Mrs. John Smiths, a notably stupid British
detective, and three or four other people circling
around the one little flat in a glorious jumble of
Johnsmith. Finally, when everybody’s character
is on the edge of irretrievable ruin, and each Mrs.
John Smith thinks the other to be a low character
with designs on her husband, and the other Smiths
are being arrested on various charges, the end of
Act 111. comes with the inevitable sorting out of
the Smitlrs into their proper clans.
It would be dismal to imagine what
“Facing the Music” would be without Frank
Thornton, who bears the chief burden of the
piece, and plays it with brisk and vigorous
humor. For an extravaganza one must be ex-
travagant, and Mr. Thornton is that, but it is a
sustained, coherent extravagance which gives the
impression of absolute naturalness. Of the other
players, very much less is demanded, and what
demand is made is not always met. Mr. Denton’s
caricature of the Rev. John Smith is, for example,
not in the least degree natural. Mr. Bradley and
Mr. Wilson fill their parts, however, successfully.
Of the women players, Miss Katie Lee is the best,
perhaps because of having the best opportunity,
but Miss Vera Fordyce also acts with charm and
grace. “Facing the Music” is prefaced by “ A
Test Match,” a little absurdity which travesties
the casket scene of “The Merchant of Venice,”
and is excellently played by Miss Phoebe Mercer
and Joseph Wilson.
* * 5)4 *
The “Runaway Girl” and Williamson’s
season at Sydney Royal close together in the
centre of next week. With his own big theatre
mostly ashes, and his great “ Ben Hur ” spectacle
buried among the ruins, and the Lyceum occupied
by Bland Holt, and the Royal only temporarily
available owing to prior engagements, J. Cassius
Williamson finds himself a dweller in tents in
Sydney. His headquarters are now down by the
pure and noble Yarra. Before he leaves this
time his co. proposes to make an effort in the
way of a Saturday matinee in aid of that deserving
oharity, the Royal Comic Opera Fund. It will be
a mixed programme, including the “Runaway
Girl,” some bits from “Florodora” (including, of
course, the sextette “Tell me, pretty maiden”),
the Dartos, and the balcony scene from “Romeo
and Juliet,” done by Lauri and Carrie Moore.
Somehow the opportunity to put on the “Silver
King,” with Lauri as the King, and Kenningham
as Jaikes, and Pat Bathurst as Corkett, and
Howard Vernon as the Spider, and Miss Palotta
as Mrs. Denver, and Gulliver as Geoffrey Ware,
has been overlooked. The next tenant of the
Royal will be George Musgrove, with “Nell of
Old Drury.” The Bulletin hopes to give way
to appropriate enthusiasm on this subject in next
issue.
** * *
At Sydney Tivoli, Fagan and Byron, new
arrivals, are full of Yankee smartness (though
announced as coming from London). Henrietta
Byron, in particular, is a clever singer and actress,
with plenty of life and go. Winton has returned
with M ‘Ginty; Tom Wootwell re-appears with
some new songs, and Miss Ivy Scott is a welcome
feature. The rest of the programme, with the
exception of the item contributed by the Jackson
Family—the star turn of the show—and the Net-
ball game, is mostly dust and ashes. Some turns
badly want to be turned out.
** * *
“ Confusion,” a comedy that mixes up a
dog and a baby with disastrous results to the repu-
tations of some innocent characters, was perpe-
trated at Sydney Queen’s Hall last Monday by
some people more or less known to fame.
One of these persons deserve absolute shooting,
and The Bulletin has decided to leave that
guilty person to the pangs of conscience. Clement
Meade, who looks like an improvement on
Napoleon Buonaparte, introduced somegood effects
into his interpretation of the tragic husband who
suspects a baby when the reality is only a pug dog.
The middle-aged lady with the virgin heart in-
dulged in realistic hysterics, and some large facial
distortions the kind that are supposed, to
characterise a stage maiden lady of uncertain age
when stricken with the tender passion. Ex-
cluding the- afore-mentioned personage, who
is left to her conscience,, nobody in
the company called for very bitter execration.
There was plenty of business, and very little for-
getting of parts, and when the pug-dog was
brought in at the last on a silver salver, it con-
fronted a house that was in a gentle and unwarlike
spirit. The audience, which consisted of George
Rignold and other people, was fairly large.
** * *
, “The Christian,” as interpreted by the
Woods-Williamson Co., is doing its second week
at Sydney Criterion. The prettiness of the first,
act, before the drama begins to fall into gloom and
the characters begin to go mad, pleases the
audience, and the dropping out of the Monastery
act has at least the negative merit of not making
the drama any more gloomy. The long-tailed
brethren were interesting but far from cheer-
ful, and their dark and speechless wander-
ings in the cold corridors led to nothing very
definite. Still the loss of this act makes
John’s fanaticism less easily understood. Miss
Williamson’s version develops the character of
Glory better than did the drama seen here some
time ago, but it leaves John a shadowy personage,
whose moral insanity comes too much as a shock.
The person who hasn’t read the book doesn’t
know that John Storm began to go mad on the
premises of the Holy Gethsernano, and that
insanity was the only vegetable likely to grow on
the Gethsemane premises.
** * *
“The Sydney Comedy Club” made its
appearance two or three nights last week, not in
the Queen’s Hall, as usual, but at the Palace. The
brightness and glitter of that little domicile
seemed to exert a stimulating influence upon
the comedians, who made a fairly good
impression with a more than fairly good play.
Fortunately, “The Philanthropist” moves more
slowly than most of its kind, so that if a
comedian forgets his. part for half a minute
he can fill in time with a deep, quiet
think without seeming to be out of gear. Nothing
very tremendous happens iff this play ; most of
the points are made by characters going out of a
room in a stern manner, and iheAMnouement to Act
11. consists in a man coming in with his face
. shaved. The Sydney Comedy Club does these
things well, and nothing else very badly.
Jack Glover, as —a -Pecksniffian person,
deserves encouragement, and Mrs. Ed.
Munt, as one of his two wives—the legal
one who snivels—-is matched by Mrs. John
Lemmoue as the gay, unintentionally illegal one,
who doesn’t snivel. These two ladies are brought
together to annihilate their husband, and they
almost annihilate each other instead, but the
wh.ols matter is taken in a strictly comic spirit.
At the Palace, people may do with impunity
things which, if done at the Lyceum across the
street, would lead to penal servitude. Jones, for
instance, the person that What Happened to,
assaulted a policeman at the Palace, and the only
consequence was that he met some very nice gir s
and had a good time. Across the road, lie would
have got 10 years for murderous battery on an
officer.
** * *
At Melbourne Princess’s, the tall, portly
baritone with the white satin lining continues to
sing in vain for Marianna, said Marianna being
devoted to a person of no consequence, whilst
another damsel, named Rhoda, is hungering for a
low comedian, who paints his nose red and rears
to kiss her until the light’s turned out. ihe
Thirty Thieves ” is the first fiction of its class
wherein the ornamental baritone fails to fascinate
even one girl during the evening. To that
extent it is strikingly original. Also, the
plot is original, though not striking, in several
minor respects. “Thirty Thieves ” reminds one of
pantomime, opera-bouffe, and musical comedy,
and the reminders are rarely bright. The music,
as far as it is borrowed from Arthur Sullivan,
may be said to improve on acquaintance, but the
inducements to go and hear it a second time are
not sufficiently powerful. Present scribe has
heard it twice, or oftener, and familiarity with
the airs has increased his disrespect for the
dialogue of this alleged comic opera—the long
discussions re Marianna, the hidden treasure, the
wood-cutter, the Lord Mayor, and other uninterest-
ing features. Even handsome costumes seem to lose
their attraction when associated with tiresome
characters. Of course, “The Thirty Thieves”
has been shortened and shaken-up since the first
night, when the curtain fell at 11.30. The enter-
tainment travels faster than it did. Its intentions
are strictly honorable, and if the. author were
brought on and subjected to a painless death in
the middle of the second act, everything would be
forgiven.
#* * *
“The Mariners of England ” is not enjoy-
ing a particularly warm time at the Royal thus
far. A more foolish specimen of British patriotic
drama might have moved vast audiences to
enthusiasm, but “The Mariners” relies mainly
on Admiral Nelson for support, and the calm,
parental tone of that nautical genius seems, to
have fallen rather flat on the ear of the Andersonian
public. All the same, Willard’s attempt to repre-
sent a Nelson somewhat like the person depicted
as such by artists who never saw him, is a highly
creditable endeavor. Willard had to be either an
alert, upright Nelson, a few inches taller than the
original, or a bent figure in an advanced state of
decay, and he chose the latter alternative with
good melodramatic results. The bent hero at the
Royal is a nice old man in a series of commanding
attitudes. His method of capturing the French
fleet might be improved upon, but he gets there in
the end. Moreover the company which shines in
Willard’s reflected'glory deserves a kind word for
trying to adapt itself to the conditions of a
milder story than usually falls to its lot.
* * * *•
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.) the latest
change of bill didn’t happen last Saturday, al-
though something else than “A Royal Divorce”
would perhaps have given satisfaction to a less
empty house. “ Much Ado About Nothing ” was
announced for Wednesday of the present week,
and the Benedictine comedy, with, subsequently,
a “Twelfth Night ” revival, may be expected to
fill in the few remaining nights of the present
season. . On Saturday (14th) comic opera will
come again to Williamson’s theatre. Then the
auditorium will look as it was wont to look.
** * *
The “World’s Entertainers” made a rather
unhappy re-appearance at the Bijou last week,
owing to the utter sadness of along and straggling
item entitled “The Merry World.” Several
people were concerned in this awful conspiracy of
merriment. Each of them in turn sang a song,
the offence in some cases being aggravated
by a chorus. - Also, ' they talked about
their songs before singing them, and
smiled complacently at one another as. though
their Indefinite Musical Trifle had a hidden
meaning. At length the gallery grew restive,.arid
the unmerited infliction was brought to a bitter
end. Bunth and Rudd helped t > improve ma‘ ters,
and little Eileen Boyd,' who is likewise new to
Melbourne, was favorably received. ' The rest of
the long programme consisted of Salerno and
other items that happened exactly as Of yore, plus
the Dusky Professor and the Animated Song
Sheet. ' ;
** * «
At the Qpera House the only new arrivals
on Saturday were Mr. and Mrs. Tom Nawn,.
whose daughter, Hettie, had seemingly been in-
cluded in the advt. by mistake. The Nawn con-
tribution is an acceptable bit of comedy terminat-
ing on roller-skates, Tom being the moving spirit
in the turn. Peggy Pryde and the club jugglers
will remain at the Opera House until the 9th, by
which time the Net Rail girls will have passed on.
Consequently a considerable alteration in the pro-
gramme is due on Saturday next, or thereabouts.
m * *
Miss Amy Castles, who had a farewell
concert at Melb. Town Hall last week,' is going to
repeat her final appearance on Saturday (7th), this
tiirie at the Exhibition Building. Manager
Williamson says that, “in order to bring this great
treat within the reach of all sections of the public,
popular prices will be charged, ” which proclama-
tions implies that J.C. W. is offering the populace
their “ Princess of Song ” at an alarming sacrifice.
* • * * *
At Adelaide Royal the Brough co. has
been changing its programme rather rapidly.
The sentimental “Second in Command” gave v
way to “ Mrs. Dane’s Defence,” which powerful
play was for some reason announced for two
nights only,. “ The Tyranny of Tears” starting a
successful run on Saturday. At the little Tivoli,
Rickards’ new policy of subletting occasionally
has come in, and the house, after being empty for
three weeks, has opened'its doors to a single week
of variety, under “Angelo,- the renowned
juggler.” “ The Wrong Mr. Wright ” istb follow
this week.
Peace!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Peace without honor closes war sans fame.
Peace! Is it peace, while half a continent
Smoulders with hate, ferments with discontent,
And stands un-British still in all but name ?
Pluck down those flaunting flags for very shame.
Ye have no more to boast of than some rude,
Harsh pedant, o’er a stubborn boy subdued,
Whose rising strength shall be his mentor’s shame.
The Boer is still the stubborn Huguenot,
Whose will though often bent was never broke.
Alva made peace with him long years ago,
And Philip brought him ’neath tiie Empire’s yoke.
Yet still he stand;, still freedom crowns his brow,
4nd where are Alva, Philip, Empire now ?
F.
The Wild Cat Column.
It is pleasing to hear that a party in the House
of Reps, proposes to fight the Inscribed Stocks Bill to a
finish, and demand that the Commonwealth shall not
borrow, but construct its public works out of revenue.
The Commonwealth measure is a great deal better in
some respects than the State loan system—still the whole
principle is utterly objectionable. It is proposed that
the Federal Government shall borrow at 3 per cent., with
a sinking fund of not less than 10s. per cent.—it may be
more if any special Loan Act so directs, but it isn’t at all
likely to be more. The sinking fund is to be invested in
the repurchase of Federal stock, but if at any time none
is available for repurchase, it may be temporarily
invested in State Government securities. But even
assuming that the sinking fund is raised to £l
per cent., it would take 47 years to pay off
the first loan. Most things that loans are
invested in don’t last 47 years, and then it is
a weary working off of a dead horse for ever after-
wards. And the relief gained by borrowing, with or
without a sinking-fund, instead of paying for the works
out of revenue as we go along, is very temporary, and
soon turns into a dead loss and an increased burden.
Suppose the Commonwealth borrows £500,000 a year
regularly—the figures pan out just as badly, of course,
with any other sum —here are some results :
Charge on revenue if Com-
monwealth borrows Charge on revenue if
£500,000 annually : 3 there is no borrow-
per cent, interest, 1 ing, but works are
per cent, sinking- built out of taxa-
fund. tion.
Ist year .. £20,000 .. £500,000
10th „ .. 200,000 .. 500,000
20th „ .. 400,000 .. 500,000
25th „ .. 500,000 .. 600,000
30th „ .. 600,000 .. 500,000
40 th,, .. 800,000 .. 500,000
47th „ .. 940,000 .. 500,000
And every suc-
ceeding year 940,000 .. 500,000
That is to say, the relief gained by borrowing vanishes
after the 24th year. And after the 25th year, the bor-
rowing policy begins to cost more than the self-reliant
non-borrowing policy would, till the loss reaches £410,000
a year. Then, assuming that the policy of borrowing
£500,000 a year continues, the loss of £440,000 a year goes
on for ever.
And supposing there is no sinking-fund, the
thing works out like this :-t-
Charge on Revenue if Charge on Revenue
Commonwealth if there is no
borrows borrowing, but
£500,000 a year at works are built out
3 per cent. of taxation.
Ist year .. £15,000 .. £500,000
10th ~ .. 150,000 .. 500,000
20th „ .. 300,000 .. 500,000
30th „ .. 450,000 .. 500,000
34th „ .. 510,000 .. 500,000
50th „ .. 750,000 .. 500,000
75th „ .. 1,125,000 .. 500,000
100th„ .. 1,600,000 .. 500,000
200th „ ... 3,000,000 .. 500,000
And so on ad infinitum. With no sinking fund the
temporary relief gained by the borrowing process dis-
appears before the end of the 34th year, and the loss that
begins then grows larger and larger for ever afterwards.
Only a person who is incapable of looking forward this
mere handful of years would advocate, a loan policy under
any circumstances. And, bad as these figures are, the
reality is much worse, for the above calculations take no
account of the losses by flotation of loans at a discount (3
per cent, loans are almost always floated at a discount),
of flotation expenses, underwriting expenses, cost of re-
mitting interest, and all manner of sundries.
Supposing the money is borrowed abroad, there
is, of course, a little temporary boom while the loan funds
are coming in. But it is miserably temporary. Assuming
that the Federal Government borrowed £500,000. a year
regularly at 3 per cent, and got not only par value for its
loans (which it won’t), but also got them with no expenses
whatever (which is absurd), in 34 years there would be
more money going out in interest than was coming in in
new loans. And in 66 years every penny that had been
received in loans would have gone away again in interest,
and the country would owe £33,000,000 without haying a
penny more capital than if it had borrowed nothing at
all.
Asfor the sinking fund, it is generally a delusion.
It is suspended in a time of stress, or, as in Maorijand,
the country decides after a while to pay the sinking fund
out of new loans. The borrowing is a reality,'and the
sinking.fundjs.nnly a promise. ~
• * * *
The late N.S.W. loan of £3,000,000 was sub-
scribed some TO or 12 limes over, and Premier See has
the front to say that this fact “ is a sufficient answer to
all the pessimistic criticism which has been published in
regard to the public finances.” It is difficult to decide
whether John See is one fool or, whether -he .takes the
N.S.W. public for 1,360,000 of them. The statement that
we are too deeply in debt isn’t disproved by the fact that
we have had great success at- getting further into debt!
The British money-lender will lend so long as he-thinks
we can pay, just as Moses Threeballski will make further
advances on the spendthrift’s furniture and other, goods
so long as he believes that, by selling up the spendthrift
and making him a beggar, he can get back his loan and
interest. John See’s argument is that we haven’t bor-
rowed too much so long as we can borrow some more—
which, in private life, would mean that any merchant
is a highly prosperous man so long as his ships,
his furniture, his insurance policy and his other
belongings are not so deeply mortgaged but that a
Mont de PietO will lend a little more on them. Of course
Australia can borrow a lot more than it has ,done and
still be able to pay. If it makes default it can always
arrange with its creditors, as Peru has done, by handing
over to them its railways, unsold public lands, and public
lands which are sold but not paid for, its mineral rights
and other sundries. The security is good enough, but
the misery isn’t. Australia wants something more than
the knowledge that it hasn’t pawned quite everything yet.
* * * *
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
Written
off, or Added to
Total Ex- provided Assur-
Income. Claims, perises. to cover ance :
Depre- Fund.'
ciation.
1892 .. £392,609 £157,252 £85,120 £150,237
1893 .. 389,756 165,983 84,069 ... '— 139,704
1894 .. 392,483 181,427 79,391 £337 131,328
1895 .. 393,686 179,163 78,429 67,198 78,896
1898 .. 392,705 193,941 78,180 120,584
1897 .. 397,012 196,092 80,403 120,517.
1898 .. 412,898 220,073 79,996 112,829
1899 .. 409,744 209,907 75,832 124,005
1900 .. 406,428 218,526 77,735 67,969 - 42,198
1901 ... 412,816 226,783 79,577 ... 106,456
The premium income shows an increase, though it hasn’t
yet got back to the figures of 1898. The assurance fund
now stands at £2,499,113, and there is also an investment-
fluctuation fund of £96,756.
The expense rate continues high—in fact it
shows an increase, for the second year in succession, and
the improvement shown in 1899 has practically all
vanished again :
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1892 .. £2113 7 per cent. 1897 £2O 5 0 per cent.
1893 .. 21 11 5 „ 1898 19 7 6 „
1894 .. 20. 4 6 „ 1899 18 10 1 „
1895 .. 19 18 6 „ 1900 19 12 6 „ '
1896 .. 19 18 2 ~ 1901 19 5 6 . „ . •
These figures differ a little from those published in this
column last year because it has been considered advisable
to include the regular annual depreciation of office property
in expenses, instead of reckoning it among the amounts,
written off. The expense-rate, as already pointed out,
shows an increase for two years in succession. It is a


ħ
XR.A.MWA.YS. TRA-MWA-YS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN, -
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Deseription of Tramway Materia*
INF" Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p. ""*1
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel Sleepers,.
Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical advice gratuitously
rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Catalogues and Photo-
graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different parts of the World, upon*
application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
Is prepared to purchase or develope, with option o(
purchase, “big’ prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “ Option,"
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Mr. Mepban Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c.,of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that th>
great demand for spiral riveted p'pes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscrav
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all size* of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts,nuts,forgings, andallsortsofiron-work.’
* * * *
If you want to borrow money,, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * »
Vanning Tables.—The very newest and what
gives exceedingly fair promise of superseding all other
tables is the machine known as the Wesleydßaird Vanning
Table. The table is of South Australian invention, and
has given excellent results on Broken Hill ores and ores
containing pyrites, carbonate of copper and tin. Like all
tables, the best work is done on “fines,” and more espe-
cially when the product is properly classified. The
Central Mining and Tramway Co., of 424 Little Collins-
street, Melbourne, and 40 Hunter-street, Sydney, are the
sole agents in the Eastern States. The table has a capa-
city up to 30 tons per day.*
* * ' • *
The Boulder mines have, on an average, 50 per
cent, of the shafts and pans of their Griffin mills broken
monthly by unexploded dynamite finding its way into
the mills. The wear and tear and loss of time for repairs
are enormous and must increase trea ment-cost several
shillings a ton. If the new patent explosive compound
(Rendrock) were used - this expense would be avoided
because even if this explosive got into the machines it
would not explode. Rendrock gives off no smoke or
fumes. Particulars will be furnished by the Sole
Proprietor, N. Guthridge Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne,
Fremantle, Wellington.*
* • * *
Assure, August, 1901: “At the end of last
year the Colonial Mutual had attained the age of 2GJ
years, and it Can point to a wonderful career of develop-
ment and expansion. During that period the Company
has issued no less than 85,372 policies assuring
£26,085,346.”*
* * * *
Any metal can be melted if only sufficient heat
be obtainable, and, as the new American Patent Hydro
Carbon (Gasoline) blow-pipe furnaces can easily melt
cast-iron, they should he of the greatest service to all
assayers. Mr. Ernest De Beer, 439 Bourke-street, Melb.,
Will be glad to answer all inquiries.*
* * * *
Bonnie Charlie (W.A.) again at work under
Joel Phillips, well and favorably known at Broken Hill
and in South Australia, who is lauded to the skies as a
mining genius. There was the same fulsome adulation
of his predecessors, who are now shattered idols. Bonnie
Charlie, as a gold-mine, has been a frost, and is likely to
remain so. Joel will learn that a bad mine can spoil the
reputation of a good manager.
* * * *
Horse-traction underground in the B.H. mines
is being superseded as fast as possible, mainly by electfie-
haulage. The horse system has failed several ways. The
original plan of stabling the animals below had soon to be
abandoned, and to send them up and down every shift
has proved expensive. Further, their use has kept some
of the main drives ankle-deep in filthy, lead-bearing
slush. '
CABBIDE OF CALCIUM,
Under license from the A.G.C. of A. L'd,"
SPOT or FORWARD. LOWEST PRICES.
Storage can be arranged.
HY MABKWALD,
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Auckland,
Dunedin and Wellington.
pretty large increase, and when It is added on to ® rsde
which was much too high before, it is a very regrettable
circumstance. v ,
More important even than the expense rate is
the rate of interest earned on the average funds for each
year, this being the principal criterion of the safety of the
society’s investments. Assuming that the amounts set
aside for depreciation are wholly written off, and treating
the life assurance fund as the whole invested funds of the
society, the rate of interest earned each year has averaged
as follows: -
Interest Representing on average amount
earned. of Assurance Fund for year.
1892 ~ £80,115 £5 10 8 per cent.
1893 .. 81,026 5 1 9 „
1894 ... 86,953 5 0 8
1895 ... 89,703 4 17 10
1896 .. 81,147 f 3 11
1897 „ 84,562 4 2 4
1898 .. 90,130 4 3 1
1899 .. 92,197 4 0 7 „
1900 .. 95,074 4 0 2
1901 .. 99,165 4 1 1
The interest earnings are somewhat of an improvement
on those of 1899 and 1900. Still they are so very low and
so very much below the Australian average that
point very definitely to one of two things. Either the
assets are still considerably over-valued, and despite the
sums written off in 1895 and 1900 there is still a great
deal of loss and depreciation unprovided for, or else the
policy of extending the business to England, Scotland,
Ireland, Gape Colony, Natal, Transvaal, Fiji, etc., is a
miserably unprofitable policy. It may prove unprofitable
in three ways-by increasing the expenses, by reducing
the average interest through the necessity for investing
part of the funds in places where rates are low, and by
reducing it again through the necessity for keeping cash
balances uninvested in a number of different countries.
At all events the Colonial Mutual’s expense rate is very
high and its interest earnings are very low, and both
these facts are bad for the policy-holders’ bonuses and
prospects. It would be necessary to write off as lost
about another £200,000 to bring the interest earnings up
to a fair average Australian rate, and that would mean no
bonuses for several years. The Colonial Mutual s esti-
mates are based on the assumption that its funds will
vield £3 10s. per cent, interest, so it has a margin of only
11s. Id. between estimated and real earnings.
In fairness, however, it must be stated, that the
Colonial Mutual isn’t the worst specimen so far as the
exceeding smallness of its interest earnings are con-
cerned. The Citizens’ (Sydney) for last year showed an
even more depressing record. Still, in this matter it is a
poor boast to be only one degree better than the Citizens’.
Amon°- the half-dozen large mutual offices of Australasia
the Colonial Mutual makes certainly the worst showing,
and has done so for a number of years now.
* * * *
, “P. 8.” : Don’t see that your investment was a
very bad one ? You seem to confuse your policy with an
endowment policy, and expect the same results. But
when in recent years, did vou see these alleged “ lauda-
tory ” notices of'that institution in Bulletin? It began
to show signs of weakness some years ago, and this was
the only paper which said so with all possible emphasis.
To accuse us of bolstering up a dubious concern, which
we alone condemned, suggests an inability to read
ordinary English. , , »
Melbourne Mutual Store, which is seriously
hampered by a big property acquired at boom values, has
decided to write off £12,500 capital, reducing it from
£112,500 to £lOO,OOO. This £12,500, with the reserves,
will make over £22,000 available for the writing down of
property values.
The Grand Hotel, Limited (Melbourne)
Written Total
March, Profits. Dividends. off. Reserves.
1899.. £13,613
1900.. £4035 lfper cent. =£562 £1336 15,750
1901.. 4608 3 „ „ 927 19,431
' 1902.. 7255 3 ~ „ 927 25,759
The profits represent a very respectable figure, but the
Grand Hotel is burdened with a heavy mortgage (it was
£70,000 in 1899, and is now reduced to £64.000), and the
management wisely devotes the bulk of the earnings to
paying off this liability and building up a reserve for
possible depreciation. The paid-up capital is £30,913, so
the mortgage is very large by comparison. It swallowed
£2082 as interest for year to March, 1900; £2036 next
year ; and £1968 in the year just closed (sufficient in it-
self to pay a 6 per cent, dividend)—and a burden like that
is worth taking some trouble to shift.
• * • *
Recently there appeared in the Bankers’ Maga-
zine a letter by H. G. Turner, in which he denounced the
State banking idea in a tone of deafening arrogance, and
declared that it was almost sufficiently condemned by the
financial incapacity of its advocates, among whom he
instanced James Mi rams, of the -Premier Permanent
Building Society. This remarkable outburst brings to
The Bulletin office a letter of protest, in which Mr.
Mi rams seeks to demonstrate that, if any cause is blighted
by i ts advocates, it is the private banking idea, which, by
the above logic, ought to be stone dead when it has any-
body bearing the name of H. G. Turner to support it. The
letter is much too long for publication ; besides, so far as
The Bulletin is concerned, its publication is quite
unnecessary. The fact that Mr. H. G. Turner, with the
Commercial Bank of Australia horror still unforgctten,
should go out of his way to criticise anybody else’s
finance, can only strike any thinking person as an
upheaval in the great domain of Modesty which deserves
to be classed as phenomenal.
* • • •
The Assets Purchase and Realisation Co. (S.A.)
is a little venture formed in 1889 to take over from the
liquidators of the smellful Town and Country Bank the
assets which needed nursing. The 25th half-yearly
balance-sheet shows the diminutive scale on which opera-
tions are now conducted. The 4s. originally called up on
each share was repaid almost at once in dividends, and
another 3s. on top of it, but the last nine years have only
paid as many pence. In last half-year £l5O worth of
property has been realised, directors’ fees and all exes,
amounting only to £5O ; and there is £3OO in hand towards
the £940, which will furnish another 3d. div.
m m • •
The Intercolonial Investment, Land, and Build-
ing Co. (Sydney) concluded a very profitable half-year on
30th April, 1902:
t, , , Written Total
Year to Profits. Dividends. off Reserves-
Oct., 1892 ~ £1,006 Nil £7,293
1893 .. 831 Nil £5OO 7,624
” 1894.. 1,823 Nil 1,000 8,446
” 1895 ~ 3,209 Nil 3,557 8,098
” 1896.. 6,854 10 p. c. = £3,200 769 10,983
” £1 781 forfeited capital added to Reserves .. 12,764
1897 6,123 10 „ „ 3,295 1000 14,592
” 1898.. 4,916 8J „ „ 2,785 16,723
” £512 forfeited capital added to Reserves .. 17,235
1899 .. 4,235 7 „ „ 3,325 19,145
” £l6 forfeited capital added to Reserves .. 19,161
1900 .. 4,392 7 „ „ 2,339 21,214
” 1901.. 4,911 7 „ „ 2,448 23,677
& Year to
April, 1902.. 2,573 7 „ „ 1,260 24,990
The only unpromising feature about this very progressive
co iatliat it seems to be trading beyond its strength. It
owes £12,764 to depositors, £6014 bank overdraft, and
£5260 otherwise, making a total of £24,038. Against this
considerable sum its sole liquid assets, in case of a run on
its resources, appear to be £4 in cash. Everything else—
capital, reserves, deposits, and money raised from the
bank and otherwise—appears to be locked up in land
transactions. In good times this policy of employing the
funds to the very last penny makes large profits. If bad
times come suddenly it may make very large difficulties.
* * . * •
The half-yearly report of the B.H. Junction is
not of much consequence. The co. has been recon-
structing, and, though latterly it has been industriously
exploring, the mill has been kept idle. The reconstruc-
tion (this was the sth or 6th) cost £172 ; apparently the
co. has done it so often that it knows now all the short
cuts. Total cash raised was £5OOO, and, as this is about
exhausted, a call was made the other day. For its
money, it can show a lode 17ft. wide, and already proved
over 70ft. long, averaging ll'6oz. silver, 16 '8 per cent,
lead, and B'B per cent. zinc. The low percentage of zinc
is in its favor ; but, especially as it cannot be got to sur-
face cheaply, this seems at present several points under
the pay limit-.
* * * *
British B.H. report tells little that is worth
knowing beyond the bulk-figures sent out by cable.
The report covers the six months to Dec. 31, so it is five
months stale ; and in five months nowadays a silver-lead
company would have time to come into the world, die,
and be resurrected, and then not hurry. The co.’s ex-
penses in the half-year were £17,054, of which £12,165
was for mining ; as against this £5427 was realised from
concentrates sold during the few weeks the mill ran. A
significant item in the balance-sheet is “ Covvper Cole’s
Metals Extraction Syndicate, Ltd., shares at cost written
off, £ll9O so apparently the Oowper Coles process has
been put in its little grave alongside a few score other
much-boomed lead and zinc extraction marvels. The
British Co. was not as badly off as most of the poorer B.H.
concerns when the slump looked in ; even at the end of
last half-year, after two bad terms, it had nearly £25,000
in cash and investments, besides £7OOO worth of stores,
and on the other side creditors for under £2500.
When that way suits them best, an average
board of Australian mining directors drops the usual
charge for depreciation of plant and says nothing about
it ; and an Australian auditor never draws attention to
the omission. Compare that with the certificate of
Turquands, Young and Co., the big London auditing
firm, given to the British B.H. Co. :—“ We report to the
shareholders as follows : Subject to the remark that no
depreciation has been written off plant, machinery, and
buildings for the half-year, owing, we understand, to the
fact that the milling-plant was shut down for the greater
part of that period, in our opinion the balance-sheet is
properly drawn up,” &c.
* » * *
General manager Delprat, of the big Broken
Hill Co., the other day worked up the gross output into
silver-wire and lead-piping and zinc-sheets. The silver-
wire (he handled a sample of it as he juggled), all made
out of Broken Hill bullion, he carried once round the
earth, tied it into a knot, passed it over the moon and
once round it, brought the ends back to the earth, and
found he had 20,000 miles still left on the reel to do odd
jobs with. With his Jin. lead-piping he tried to reach the
moon, but found that it would take 18 months’ output to
finish the job ; while with the hitherto worthless, zinc in
the waste-dumps he rolled out a sheet 14ft. wide and
found he had just enough to make a track around the
globe at the Equator. Then he went on juggling with
expenses—covered the floor with sovereigns two deep (it
was at a mine engineers’ dinner) to represent the timber-
bill, and, having swept up the lot and thrown them all at
the reporters, laid the gold out 20sovs. deep to represent
the £10,000,000 paid away in 15 years in wages.
# * • *
Failing to get any satisfaction from the B.H.
co’s in its request for a fairer mining contract agreement,
the Miners’ Association is preparing a case for the Arbit-
ration Court. With the request for a less lop-sided bond
for contractors will be coupled a claim for better pay for
wages-men—broadly, a return to the rates paid before
the ’92 strike. The “ other side ” will probably counter-
claim a mining-apprentice system.
* * * *
The recent history of Block 14 :
„ . Surplus of
Half-year to Divs. Liquid
March, 1896.. £6174 £lO,OOO £17,857
Sept., 1896 .. 7752 5,000 -23,081
March, 1897 .. 7755 10,000 27,024
Sept., 1897 .. 6995 10,000 27,372
March, 1898 .. 9813 5,000 23,463
Sept., 1898 .. 6373 5,000 25,504
March, 1899.. 1674 10,000 30,050
Sept., 1899 .. 5448 10,000 31,099
March, 1900.. 8257 5,000 29,480
Sept., 1900 .. 8499 15,000 27,814
March, 1901 .. 8257 10,000 19,041
Sept., 1901 .. 3127 nil 9,484
Deficit.
March, 1902 .. 2095 nil 7,087
So far as the surplus of liquid assets goes the co. is thus
£16,571 worse off than it was six months back. And
while the liabilities are solid enough you wouldn’t stake a
week’s dinners on some of the assets —“ estimated surplus
on bullion, £6443,” for instance. There was, six months
ago, an “ estimated surplus on bullion ” of £4378 ; but in
this half-year’s account that particular estimated surplus
stars as “ deficiency on bullion shipments, £1728.”
Nevertheless Block 14 has not had quite so bad a time as
this slump of £16,751 in assets would lead one to expect.
In the first place, there wasn’t any such surplus
as £9484 at the end of the previous half-year.
The management owns up now that it counted
the almost-worthless slimes in with the “ ore and
matte” or with “concentrates and ore”; but it has
dropped that now. Also the £9484 included that large
“ estimated surplus on bullion shipments ” which turned
into a deficiency. Making allowances for these items and
a few more, including the £1389 which the highwaymen
who stuck up the manager got away with, Block_ 14 has,
still put up its worst record. And in order to do it it has
scooped out 6077 tons of the carbonate ore which is
almost invaluable for smelting in conjunction with
sulphides. Sulphides, however, it is not touching at all.
The co. has just got a new chairman, and possibly he will
improve things. Down to date, as said here several times,
the co. takes an easy first in the competition for bad
handling. m m •
Re Cobarite (8., May 24), “T.” writes from
Cobar : “ Inspector Schloesser, of Cobar, is a white man,
and a real friend of and of the worker.
The Occidental was not told by him to timber its open
cut. The Cobar copper co. were not told by him to fill
in their big stopes. Mr. Schloesser is a practical miner
and manager of 13 years’ experience in Queensland,
N.S.W., Tasmania, South Africa, and Belgium, out of
which 13 years for six years he managed a mine employ-
ing over 100 men.”
• * » *
Reported that the N.S.W. Government has
agreed to subsidise £1 for £l, to the extent of £30,000,
any party that will undertake to test the deep ground at-
Hill End, on a system approved by the Mines Department.
This is almost too good to be true. The Department has
become so accustomed to doling out £5O here and there
and everywhere to maintain prospectors who would be
better engaged otherwise—no good result ever having
attended the prospecting-vote expenditure—that it is
hardly conceivable that it can depart from its beaten
track. The proposed expenditure at Hill End will be in
the nature of a national undertaking, for which there is
every justification, provided that public interests are
safeguarded in wire-pullers not being allowed to shepherd
large areas in the immediate vicinity of the prospecting
operations.
Paringa Consols (W.A.), having been safely
resurrected for second time, again got to work on alleged
Brown Hill lode. If calls duly met should make big
splash with 2s. assessment on 800,000 shares.
• • * •
North Star, Mt. Malcolm (W.A.) run at a loss
by co., worked by tributors for four months, produced
14200 z. from 845 tons. Since flotation in 1896 mine pro-
duced 13,1590 z. from 13,196 tons, and yet made a loss.
* * * *
Queensland Menzies (W.A.) main shaft down
450 ft., and winze from 366 ft. level down 140 ft.; winze
measures 14ft. x 10ft., and, as pipe of ore is only 25ft.
long, winze takes out nearly half. When next level'
starts, reserves of rich ore won’t keep battery going four
months. Good stoerk to sell on rise.
* * • *
Boulder Main Reef (W.A.) still looking sick,
and returns growing smaller by degrees and beautifully
l egg _April 18940 z. against March 19370 z. With no pros-
pect of div., scrip dear at any price.
Stated that Brown Hill Central (W. A.) is to
sink another 300 ft. from present depth of 450 ft. This will
entail outlay of £2OOO at least, and involve reconstruc-
tion. Displays more pluck than sense.
• • • •
Princess Royal, Norseman (W.A.), just returned
13250 z. from 1447 tons. This mine seems the best Aus-
tralian-managed W.A. concern. To date, produced
68,0000 z. gold, worth £240,000, from 57,000 tons, and dis-
tributed- £56,000.
• * ' * *
Great Boulder (W.A.) April return was
13,3760 z. from 8267 tons against Ivanhoe’s 11,1410 z. from
10,455 tons. Owing to difference in gold, gross values are
practically identical at £43,000. Boulder got furnace to
refine gold, but, as refining would reduce by over 2000 oz.
monthly, furnace not in use.
Rumored that Bank of England (W.A.) is to be
swallowed up by North Boulder. As mines adjoin, and
the kettle can’t call the pot black, an amalgamation could
hurt no one, unless possibly the directors, j
• * • *
Kalgurli (W.A.) return for April reads 33100 z.
from 3000 tons, and South Kalgurli 26730 z. from 2700
tons. Both co’s. promised divs. early this year, but
neither has come along yet.
* * • *
Perseverance, W.A. : Asserted by an outsider
that the eyes are being picked out of this mine to main-
tain high yields for the time being, and that its history
will be a repetition of that of Lake View. If so, the West
has produced an exaggerated type of Ananias, as official
reports are consistent as to the immense reserves of high-
grade ore in sight.
J|C * * *
Hannan’s North (W.A.), again resurrected with
189,821 shares of 45., paid up to 3s. Assessment of Is.
would realise £9491. As co. spent £32,000 since last re-
construction in Dec., ’OO, and closed down mine while
erecting 10-head battery, and then merely rooted out all
available ore, its prospects of div. earning are absolutely
nil.
* * * *
Great Boulder No. 1 (W.A.), now said to be
clearing £lO,OOO a year by recovering gold from tail-
ings resulting from public crushings. Lake View South
also prospering on the same system. Custom work is
good business when there is plenty of it. As many for-
tunes have been made out of public batteries as out of
mines in Australia.
• * * *
Ironsides North (W.A.) made another 6d. call
and, as usual, circulates glowing reports of developments.
Work being done is mere parody on mining and can
result in nothing but calls and bankruptcy.
m * * *
Associated (W.A.): Among probable candidates
for the mantle of manager Hewitson are mentioned
A. E. Thomas, M.L.A., formerly of the Norseman mine,
and W. W. M’Kinnon, late of L.V. Consols. Rich speci-
men stone still coming from No. 2 cross-lode at No. 5
level, bub this won’t help scrip much. Developments
being feverishly pushed on, as ore reserves are getting
beautifully less.
* • « •
Phoenix (W.A.), ashes of a dozen wild cats, re-
vivified ; capital, 360,000 shares of ss. each, with Is.
6d. assessment. Old co., run by the Paringa crowd, con-
spicuous for its failures. Phoenix not likely to change
its luck. Its next collapse will make it like Lucifer —
without hope of rising again.
* « * •
Results of crushings from Great Boulder South
known only to Frank Gardner and his “inside” asso-
ciates. Similar reticence being practised by Hampton
Plains people re trial parcel from Queen. As assays only
ran into grains, battery result could hardly run into any-
thing else. This bubble likely to burst in near future.
• * * *
Vosperton (W.A.) reconstructed in somewhat
novel style with 400,000 shares. Vendors, who originally
got 180,000 out of 200,000, kindly take 200,000 new shares
with 2s. 6d. liability for additional 36 acres. Of this Is.
to be called up. To provide the wherewithal holders of
old shares offered 200,000 10 per cent, cumulative prefer-
ence shares with Is. liability. This assessment provides
£lO,OOO to liquidate valueless debentures held by vendors.
This meets call on vendors’ shares and gives better chance
to unload. Locally, mine considered poor; 535 tons
alleged to have yielded 6950 z.
m * » *
Mt. Margaret Reward (W.A.) examined in
interest of largest shareholder, and came safely through
ordeal. This ensures success of proposed reconstruction.
Co. owns 10-head mill and 4-drill air compressing plant.
Main shaft down 240 ft., and 600 ft. driven at 100 ft. and
200 ft. Results to date : 49350 z. from 5844 tons.
* * » *
“Golden Pole (W.A.), adjoining n.w. corner of
Westralia Waihi, just completed test crushing of 5640 z.
from 250 tons. Mine held by private syndicate for past
three years. Property fairly well opened up, and contains
big body of stone.
* m * *
North Kalgurli (W.A.) recently amalgamated
with Brookman’s Boulder. A 20ft. lode with an ounce
alleged to have been discovered. Property has always
been patchy. Locally, large number of shares being
mopped up at about 7s. Parcel of 44 tons smelted for
soz. 2dwt. average.
m m m *
Chairman of Brown Hill Extended (W.A.)
hugging himself that he squelched amalgamation with
adjoining Brown Hill when shares of latter had been
judiciously rigged to £l2, a figure not likely to be reached
in near or dim future. Everything now depends on east
lode, which has always proved patchy, but shareholders
are assured that it is certain “to improve with depth.’-’
Marvellous how this parrot-cry seems to catch share-
holders’ imagination and empty their pockets.
m m m »
Golden Horseshoe (W.A.): New mill running
smoothly. Mine continues to develop well for full length
of property. With full 100 heads going, less tonnage of
rich ore will be used in future.
* « •* 9
Latest mill returns from Peak Hill (W.A.) only
average 4‘6dwt. per ton, actual figures being 104Sqz.- from
4518 tons. In addition, 14860 z. were recovered' from
6487 tons of old tailings. Rich find is reported at 360 ft.
level, but rumor may be taken with chloride of sodium.
41 « •* *
All sorts of wild rumors continue to be circu-
lated re Cosmopolitan (W.A.), but, so far as ascertainable,
no real justification for slump. Hitherto profits have
been absorbed in development and equipments, owing to
insufficient working capital having been provided.
Hannan’s Oroya (W.A.) at last located rich Iron
Duke chute, after cross-cutting west, driving north, and
then cross-cutting east. Lode, where intersected, both
wide and rich, and, as 250 ft. in Oroya’s boundary, long
run of ore assured. Owing to lode being found further
east than anticipated, Oroya possesses much more of
underlay than expected.
Kalgurli: Reported that at 920 ft. high-grade
telluride ore is being worked for a great width, and that,
generally between 600 ft. and 900 ft. mine is looking
remarkably well. About time that the mine had a good
showing, in view of extravagant early anticipations,
which, so far, have not been realised.
m * • »
Golden Horseshoe: Year’s record, 184,1890 z.
from 191,608 tons. Production bo end of March, 19 tons
of gold; divs., £1,003,000. Oxidised and sulphide ore
actually in sight, ready for stoping, estimated at 278,644
tons ; and ore in sight, bub not ready for stoping, 269,381
tons.
* * * *
Some W.A. aggregates to the end of April
Tons. Oz. Average.
L. V. Consols .. 346,537 714,693 2oz. ldwts. 6gr.
Boulder.. .. 319,678 656,245 2 „ 1 „ 14,,
Horseshoe .. 257,655 678,158 2 „ 0,, 11 „
Ivanhoe 315,423 457,942 1 „ 9 „ 0 „
Perseverance .. 249,479 334,043 1,, 6,, 21,,
Brown Hill .. 166,044 329,901 1,, 19 ~ 17 ~
Associated .. 206,111 266,535 1 „ 5 „ 20 „
* * * *
North Lyell: Plans are being prepared for a
■plant to consist of five blast furnaces, one of which is
now being* erected. It will be interesting to note the
result of blast-furnace work on the highly silicious N.
Lvell ore. A few years ago the man who would suggest
that there was a possibility of from 60 to 70 per cent,
silicious ore, with a low percentage of iron, being
smelted in a blast furnace woulid have been regarded as a
lunatic. The fact is that metallurgists have a lot to learn
n re mechanical operations in the blast furnace.
Bowes. Kelly’s speech at Mt. Lyell meeting was
even more gloomy as to the outlook for the co. than any
interpretation of the official report could have been. After
admitting that much exploratory work had been done,
he said that the developments had added nothing of
moment to the information available re the main ore
body- He also stated that the April div. had been paid
out of accumulated profits and that the diminished div.
for July would be drawn from the same source. The co.
has a substantial reserve, and by their silence on the point
shareholders seem to approve of the policy of drawing
on it for divs. Unsatisfactory as is the position of Mt.
Lyell owing to the slump in the value of copper, it is not
nearly as bad as that of a large number of American co.’s.
Wholesale sacking of copper directors is the order of the
day in America. The merest suggestion of a suspicion
that directors subordinated company’s interests to the
manipulations of the Copper Trust is sufficient to induce
irate American shareholders to kick out directors un-
ceremoniously.
♦ * * *
Mayne’s tin mine, Heemskirk (Tas.). Reported
that a direct offer of £lO,OOO cash has been made for the
property, but, as is too frequently the case in connection
with new finds in Australia, there is a dispute as to title,
which is blocking the negotiations.
* * * *
The continued low price of copper has ended at
lastdp the closing of the works for extracting the metal
from the huge waste dumps at the old Burra (S. A.) mine.
» • * *
The Brisbane-boomed Tartana copper show
evidently is not taken with absolute seriousness
by all North Queenslanders as, commenting on the
statement “That the rock is so perfectly oxidised
by natural forces that it does not need to be
fine-crushed in order to leach out the copper con-
tents,” a writer in the N.Q. Reotster indulges in this
sarcasm : “Tartana Hill ore is of a remarkable character.
At Brisbane the other day a lump of ore (not selected, of
course) from the mine, the size of a pawnbroker’s tomb-
stone, reacted magnificently when operated on by a solu-
tion forced through a twopenny syringe. The huge mass
dissolved in an instant, the 6.M.8. copper collecting in a
solid mass at the feet of the triumphant operators.
Everyone was much impressed, and each took a sample of
the copper to exchange for tram tickets. You can’t beat
these Brisbane metallurgical magicians.”
* * * *
Charters Towers is the one bright speck on the
gloomy horizon of a land of drought, dust and dry bones.
The dividends declared at the Towers during April
amounted to £26,700, and the calls to £2OOO only.
* • * *
West Coast M.L. dredging returns for April
show that the average yield per week was about 30oz.
per dredge with 25 dredges at work. This means £3OOO
worth of gold per week, almost £2OOO of which ought to
be clear profit.
* * * *
A curious instruction has been given to the
inspectors of mines in Victoria : “Inspectors are hereby
cautioned that, while they are to point out to mine
managers where compliance is not given to the require-
ments of the Act, they are to carefully refrain. from
imparting instructions as to what is to be done in the
matter.” Viewed practically this cannot be regarded
other than as a lack of confidence, officially, in the
inspectors. They are the sole arbiters as to whether or
not their orders are given proper effect to, and as an
order may mean £lOOO expenditure, surely the least that
a mine-owner can demand is that the inspector should
specify,in detail, and, if necessary, supply plans of the
work which he insists on having done. The instruction
quoted is evidently the outcome of difficulties which have
arisen over the question of mine ventilation. The law
says that so many cubic feet of air shall be supplied per
miner, but, so far, there are no mechanical appliances
available equal to the work. The offer of £lOOO for a
successful mine-ventilating machine is still open.
m *
Central Lady Braasey, Castlemaine (Vic.), is a
unique mine. It has no shaft, no plant of any sort, but
works from an adjoining mine. Its total called-up capital
is £1125 ; it has crushed 8254 tons for 82890 z., value
£33,000, out of which £19,500 has been paid in divs.


OVERCOATS
IN Melton Cloth ... ... 29/6
Black Vicuna 35/-
Venetian Cloth 47/6
Ready for Itotocdiate Wear,
PAVID JONES CO.
ORIENI^C^TWERS,
George # Barrack Sts., Sydney.
h
Eye COMFORT!
ĥ
Is yours if you come here for
your glasses. We’ll test your
eyes FREE, and advise glasses
ONLY when absolutely neces-
sary. n.b. —Post Test sent
Free to any country address.
WOOD, THE
299
Ceorge-st.
OPTICIAN
Note ONLY Address—299 George-st., Sydney
(Top ok Hunter-st. in George-st.) l
and Equitable Buildings, Elizabeth-st., Melbourne
EVA BRAHAM,
LADIES’ HAIRDRESSER,
From H. P. Truefitt, 114 Old Bond Street, London,
Pupil of Dr. Gurney, M.D., L.R.C.P., L.R.0.5., Harley
Street, Cavendish Sq., London, W.
HAIR <sc SKIN TREATED.
CONSULTATION GRATIS.
Pamphlet on the Art of Preserving: the Complexion,
Hair, Nails and Feet, POST FREE.
HENNA TINCTURE
for STAINING GREY HAIR.
Harmless and Effectual. In three
shades—Black, Brown, and Light Brown. 3s. per case.
Hair Stained from 21s.
LADIES’ ORNAMENTAL HAIR made up in all Newest
Styles. Prices Moderate.
Removal of Superfluous Hair and Chiropody by an Expert .
EVA BRAHAM,
15 First Floor, Equitable Buildings,
George Street, Sydney, near g.p.o.
SOCIETY
They are pumping water from Prospect
Reservoir for the use of Sydney now, and the
days to elapse before a water-famine comes are
dwindling. A more alarming possibility, in
some people’s opinion, is that the drought will
break with a rush of much water over the land,
and that Prospect Dam, seriously weakened by
the long dry spell, will not be able to endure the
strain. Hey then for a big condensing-plant
on the shores of Sydney Harbor.
• • • •
A damp silence has pervaded the Sydney
Jingo organs ever since that disloyal meeting of
the University Union, when a resolution of sym-
pathy with Prof. Wood, in the attacks recently
made _on him, was carried by a two-thirds
majority. The meeting was with Prof. Wood
(though professedly dissenting from his views)
almost to a man. The reason that there was even
a one-third minority was, that many of the
minority had to vote against the resolution if they
voted at all, since the first clause expressed dissent
A COURTESY TITLE.
OLD FRIEND (in confidential whisper): “ Does
your — er —wife know that you are going to
get married?”
front Prof. Wood’s views. But the main purpose
of the meeting has been served—viz., to rehabili-
tate a public teacher in the best way possible—
viz., by showing that he has the confidence of his
students.
The silence with which this development has
been received is something truly remarkable—
except to those people who know the little ways
of the daily papers. Prof. Wood’s exceedingly
moderate and truthful letter to the Manches-
ter Guardian has been published (how it must
have pleased the Herald to print that par in
it about The Bulletin !), because that was un-
avoidable under thecircumstances, and the sub-
ject has been dropped like a hot brick. Another
drop was in the lower jaws of all the Scottish
heresy-hunters of the Senate. There is not likely
to be heard anything more of the precious project
to “deal with” Mr. Wood.
• » * •
The loudly-boomed “Victoria Day” cele-
brations in Brisbane were unspeakably dull. Bris-
bane’s population is roughly 110,000, and of these
2000 went to the feebly-fierce variety show at the
cricket ground in the afternoon, and 3000 or so
wandered dismally through the parched Botanic
gardens in the evening, watching a few Chinese
lanterns bobbing fitfully in the westerly wind.
At the afternoon show the management put on a
boxing-match and a billy-goat race to attract the
crowd, but they mainly preferred to go to the
local race-meeting.
The Gov. Rawson reception in Sydney provided
another exhibition of the depth of Imperialistic
feeling in Australia. A few ramshackle carriages
which looked as if they were filling in time
between the morning trip to Waverley cemetery
and the afternoon corpse to Rookwood ; little
crowds of tired women holding children and of the
ordinary passers-by stopping for a moment, and of
the unemployed dead-beats, in the streets—that
was all the reception. It will, perhaps, dawn even
on Lord Hopetoun before he goes that the great
loyalty outburst of 1901 in Australia was mainly
due to the fact that the Empire was just then
identified with an enterprise which closely
resembled a push outrage—the belting to death of
a little people by overwhelming force; and there
is unhappily a big class in Australia, as in any
other partially-civilised country, which will whoop
for anything with blood and kick in it, from a
football match or a cock-fight to a Boer war, on
general principles.
The tendency to divide up
the control of the very moderate-
sized city of Sydney among 40 odd
municipal councils, a harbor trust,
a water and sewerage department,
a resumption board and a few
sundries gets in the way of every
improvement. When the State
resumed the original plague area
of Sydney the area was put partly
under the control of the State
Government and partly under the
Harbor Trust. The only reason
why the Government didn’t create
a Rabbit Board, and a Sheep
Board, and a Marsupials Destruc-
tion Board, and an Irrigation
Trust, and give them, also, por-
tions of the area to look after
was because it forgot. One re-
sult of the confusion of authori-
ties is that certain persons who
owned hotels in the resumed area
have received compensation for
the loss of their leases, and have
also received new leases. The
best feature of the ease is that the
aggressive brewery man is not to
receive compensation for the loss
of his tied house. At least that
is the present attitude of the
Government upon the matter.
• • •
Meteorologist Wragge’s pre-
sent position recall’s Lawson’s man
who wouldn’t take the sack. Origi-
nally Wragge’s Bureau was run in
conjunction with the Postal Dept.,
which the Federal Govt, took over
later, minus Wragge. The Bureau
was then tacked on to the Home
Sec.’s Department, and was
charged for its data by the
Federal Postal Dept. Now that
the Philp Govt, has cast him
adrift, and that the retrenching
Federal Govt, refuses to take him
in out of the wet, Wragge intends
running the concern on private-
enterprise lines. If combined
with sporting tips, there would
be a living in meteorology. There
is a great deal in common between
the two games.
The capers of the returned cohentingenter
begin to interest this sobered-up country. The
other day about 40 of them stowed away on the
Fortunatus, bound for Durban from Melbourne.
They were nearly all ex-farm-burners and the
passengers and crew concealed most of them till
too late to put back, but the skipper managed to
round up 14, and these he unceremoniously
bundled ashore three miles t’other side of Portland
(Yic.) and left them to foot it back to Melbourne
or do the other thing. Mostly they footed it, and
the road to the city is one long trail of spoliated
hen-roosts, and ravaged turnip-fields, and butchers’
and bakers' shops with a great dearth of stock.
They all told the same old yarn about the Jingo
employer who was going to keep their billets
open, but straightway filled them, and the State
that was going to put them in its service and went
back on its word; they had been ruined by 12
months’ loafing and looting, and the only thing
THE PET LAMB.
‘ I told your father we thought of getting married
next year, and he got quite mad"
“ Yes, dear, pa is so fond of me.”
“ Evidentl y—he asked what I was hanging fire
for.”
they could do was to try and get back to “the
front ”; but they hadn’t £lOO and couldn’t get the
necessary permit, so were forced to stow away
on the chance of squeezing through somehow.
Also from Albany comes an interesting tale of the
amusements of some of the 1600 oohentingenters
returning by the Aurania—tales of hosts of com-
plaints to the police, of missing sailing-boats and
dingies, of abstracted jewellery, of damaged bars
and wrecked windows and a general looting of
the town ; and though there is a very specious ex-
planation that the Albany outrages were the result
of an unhappy coincidence and not of cohentin-
genting wildness, the publio is hard to convince
on that point. Verily the curse is coming home
to roost.
• • • •
Over 2000 blankets were issued to “dis-
tressed persons” in N.S.W. during May by one
Govt. Department. This does not include those
distributed by recognised institutions such as
Sydney Benevolent Society, or those issued by
the police, but mainly represents the 25 to 50 pairs
on the application of “Mr. Log Roll, M.L.A.,”
as per the next morning’s newspaper. This
cheap-and-nasty form of patronage is steadily
growing in favor. The M.L.A. who can’t get 50
blankets for the supporters, who run the local
relief agency, to distribute, is looked upon as a
poor sort of creature.
• • • •
Mayor Cohen, of Adelaide, has been
hauled over the coals by the city P.M. for holding
private mayoral courts and settling prosecutions
without allowing any hint of names, evidence, or
penalties to transpire. The particular trouble
arose over breaches of the Weights and Measures
Act. TheP.M. issued information against offenders,
and the Mayor interposed by having them up
before him in his parlor and afterwards causing
the informations to be withdrawn. The P.M.
threatens in future to take no heed of these civic
arrangements, but to issue warrants against per-
sons not responding to his summons.
* * * •
The Moss breach of promise case, abruptly
withdrawn in N.S.W. Court, the other day, gave
a valuable insight into feminine human nature.
The very charming plaintiff, according to
her own showing, had not been always quite
correct in her manners and morals, but the
Hebrew gentleman loved her so much that,
she said, he was prepared to forget all about
that. A passing-strange circumstance the
lady confessed to a child which she hadn’t got!
The imaginary infant was, however, a useful
fiction, as on one occasion Mr. Moss paid out for a
surgical contrivance for it; the poor little mind-
child was a cripple. In view of the deceit about
this supposed child and other matters, plaintiff’s
case broke down. There was another rich breach
of promise plum promised this law term, but it
was withdrawn at the last moment. Sydney
Society folk were all so glad—so they said. But
the evening papers wept.
• • • •
Herbert B. Moss, in one of the love-
letters read as him last week in
the breach-of-promise action unsuccessfully
brought by the unblushing Miss Myrtle Hofer,
told the damsel she was his “gem of the first
water, without a flaw.” How intensely Mossaie !
Had he not changed his views, Herbert might
have lived to address petitioner as. his Own
Emerald, Peerless Ruby, or Pearl of Price.
• * * *
After several weeks of dead silence the
police report having surprised the Kenniffs in a
scrub between Hutton Creek and West grove (Q.);
a horse, apparently just shot, was discovered;
also a quantity of ammunition, some new bread
and fresh butter. The Kenniffs escaped through
the scrub, and are said to have obtained fresh
horses at Westgrove. This place is considered
one of the best laid-out stations in Queensland,
and is situated in wild, scrubby country, near the
head of the Dawson River.
* » * *
In memoriam—the latest style. It comes
from Greymouth, M.L.
IN MEMORIAM.
In loving memory of who was killed
by accident on Ashburton racecourse. May sth, 1898.
When he saddled upon grim Death, the mysterious
course was cleared. With his colors up, he answered
“ God’s command,” and the Angels gave him wel-
come, for his time had come that day, as he galloped
past the bright and heavenly stand.
Inserted by his loving mother, brothers and
sisters.
The business enterprise of the
“ simultaneous missioners ” who
raided Melbourne and stole the con-
gregations of the every-
day gospellers showed its
hoof in more directions
than one. Pastors Geil
and Torrey saw the
expediency of employ-
ing the exclusive ser-
vices of a smart
pressman to
whoop things up
in the dailies, and
as the “religious
editor” is a quan-
tity unknown in
Melb., they sent
to Sydney and en-
gaged the bustling
little man who
rakes in church
news for one of the
morning papers.
The Melb. reporter
is a wicked person
with an irreligious
habit of going
round to “missions” and affairs of that sort
when the fun is over, and picking up a four-line
paragraph. Geil and Torrey’s special rep., who
did the work for all three papers, assiduously
ferretted out the liveliest yarns those saintly show-
men had to tell, and sprang columns of funny
stuff on an unsuspecting public, which forthwith
put on its hat and muffler and went round to hear
the missioners for itself.
Sydney wharf-loafers get every day in the
week a cheap entertainment through the stupid
brutality of the authorities responsible for the
removal of short-sentenced prisoners sent up the
river. At the most public hour of the day these
prisoners are dropped out of the police-van on to
the Quay, and marched through a laughing, jeer-
ing crowd along Phillip jetty to the police-launch,
waiting to carry them to supposed penitence and
reform. Reform ! Why the publicity of the
thing makes for the production of utter callousness
in those subjected to the ordeal. Last week one
wretched woman with trembling steps faced the
crowd and then deliberately plunged into the
water. A water-policeman promptly fished her
out, and then a sergeant held the dripping figure
stretched on the deck as the launch left the Quay.
Phillip jetty seems now to be used exclusively as
a starting-place for political roysterers, and as a
changing-pi ace on the road to Destruction of Self-
Respect.
» • • •
“Kelm Scott” on certain aspects of a
section of the police-magistracy :
I heard the P.M. in a southern N.S.W. town recently
interrogating an applicant for an old age pension. “ How
do you know you were born on 3rd March ? ” was one of
the questions put. Another was: “How do you know
you came to this State in ’6B ? ” And again : “ Why didn’t
you save enough to keep you in your old age without
becoming a burden on the country at large ? ” These and
many other questions were put in the soured tone of a
personally-injured man. What would have happened, 1
wonder, if the applicant-worm had turned and asked the
almighty potentate on the bench how he knew he was
(say) Bilkins—how he knew he wasn’t a bounceable ass—
how he knew what time he got home the previous night—
and why he (a prospective pensioner) wasn’t saving enough
out of his salary to prevent him becoming a burden on
the country in his old age instead of spending the money
on the cultivation of a flushed nose and an irritated
aspect ? Possibly, three months would have happened.
“ Licensed Surveyor,” to The Bulletin *
“ Woman’s Letter ” (B. 26/4/’O2) advises consumptive to
buy a tent and camp out. Instances, irrelevantly, a man
far gone in phthisis, given three months only by doctors,
compelled to sleep out in the Domain, who consequently
partly recovered, and is now, six years later, fairly strong.
The correct deduction is : Sleep in the open, Yes ; buy a
tent, No. Have slept under tents for 20 years and over.
Tents, as usually pegged-down, afford less ventilation
than the ordinary room. The main point in consumption
is to breathe all nieht pure air of same quality and tem-
perature as the free air outside ; if freezing, all the
better (colds and phthisis are said to be unknown in
coldest latitudes). Open and enter an ordinary snug
tent at daylight on a frosty morning, and you will usually
find the inside air quite warm and vitiated from being
frequently breathed. Consequence to occupant is a
severe fit of coughing at the first contact of the heated,
weakened lung-surface with the pure frosty morning air,
and, if suffering from lung-trouble, possible immediate
death from pulmonary rupture. Would advise sleeping
under, as opposed to in, tents, with the front always
wide open and back tied up, not pegged down. Keep
body warm with sufficient extra blankets. Rather sleep
in the open bush than in a tent full of vitiated, heated
air. A roof with one wall only is the ideal sleeping
place.
[When it was said “sleep in a tent,” it wasn’t
suggested to close the tent up. With one flap
open and roof-ventilators, a tent is not likely to
hold vitiated air.]
• * • •
On one day recently in Sydney various
laborers were sentenced, respectively, as follows :
10s., or 24 hours gaol; 10s., or 48 hours gaol; 405.,
or one month’s gaol. Query, find the value of a
laborer’s time ?
SHE AND I.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When fate is hard
I try to smile,
And in this way
I time beguile.
When gloomy thoughts
Oppress my soul,
I brighten up
I think I stole
(Some years ago)
A kiss which she
Stole back again
Immediately.
Whene’er we meet
We smile and bow
Just as of old.
(She’s married now.)
“ Does she love him ? "
I do not know.
But she loves me,
And so—and so.—
We smile and bow
Whene’er we meet
Each other in
A room or street 1
S. O. O. J.


There has not been a more interesting
Australian book published for a long time than
“Bushman and Buccaneer’’—giving the life and
writings of Harry Morant (“The Breaker”).
Every bushman will want. to buy a copy for the
sake of the complete collection of “The Breaker’s”
verses which it contains. The book gives a photo-
graphic reproduction of the “ copy ” of Morant’s
last verses, written in gaol, and many illustrations,
from authentic photographs, of the Bushveldt
.Carbineers’ operations. Price one shilling.
Wholesale from Edwards Dunlop and Co., Syd-
ney.—Advt.
The Yankee papers have also their
“letters from the front.” Extract from one of
a 32nd. U.S.Volunteer writing from the Philippines
to Omaha World :
We go out, catch a negro, and ask him if he ha 3 a
gun. He will give us a polite bow and say, “ No, sabby,”
and then we take hold of him and apply the water cure,
after which he can get us two or three guns. Now this
is the way we give them the water cure. Lay them on
their backs, a man standing on each hand and each foot,
and then put a round stone in the mouth and pour a
pail of water into the mouth and nose, and, if they do
not give up, pour in another pail. They swell up like
toads. I tell you it’s a horrible torture.
U.S. Major Waller, tried by court-martial
at Manila for cruelty, frankly justified his actions
by reference to the British in Egypt in 1882, and
all the allies in China recently. He was there
both times, he said, and after proved acts of
torture by irregulars on the other side all prisoners
were “ executed ” without trial. And the Filipinos
were worse than either Arabs or Boxers ; one of
their favorite tricks was to cut an American
prisoner open and fill the body with jam ! “ They
murdered my command,” said Waller, “ and I
shot them. I honestly thought then that I wa3
right, and I believe so now.” Verdict of
acquittal by eleven votes to two.
‘"Dis is wot
Igrov/don
MARK
TRfiDEaiypV™"
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Australia's
Leading Tonic
Beverage.
Sydney Consecrated Press lately con-
veyed ” from Philadelphia Catholic Standard
the report of a sermon on marriage, and, after
localising same, palmed it off as its own article (no
signature was appended). Melbourne Advocate,
also an R.C. organ, discovered the little game,
and after devoting a whole page to convicting the
Press by the aid of parallel columns, unctuously
inflicts a holy rebuke
We feel sure that the honor of Catholic journalism has
been besmirched by the action of The Catholic Press,
and we think it better that the grave fault which it has
committed should be pointed out by a friendly hand
rather than one whose opinions were not in accord with
the offending journal. We trust that The Catholic I ress
will receive our comments in the spirit m which they are
written. .
But the Consecrated Press doesn’t. It fails to
recognise that a blessed brick hurts any less than
a heretic rock, and (artfully avoiding any reference
to what all the row is about) retorts that its contem-
porary is “toothless,” and if it doesnt look out
and keep quiet the Press will open an opposition
office in Melbourne. And so the matter stands.
* » • *
A wealthy Brisbane firm, prosecuted for
having its premises in a disgusting condition,
pleaded guilty to the inspector’s charges ot
horrible neglect (in plague-time) of the common
decencies of civilisation and was fined £5. W ithin
48 hours a drunken woman pleaded guilty to taking
a pair of 2s. lid. boots off a shop counter and
got three months' hard labor.
* * * • *
The long arm again. Lady from Too-
woomba(Q.), visiting London, gets out at Pad-
dington Station, and is hailed by London jarvey :
“Here y’are, Mrs. C !” Lady questions
cabby and is truthfully informed: “ You were me
first fare when I drove the only cab in Toowoomba,
and now I’m the first cabman to drive you in
London.
Also: 20 years ago a Sydney lad struck up
an acquaintance with a young foreigner, who evi-
dently knew a thing or two. They fell out, and
the Sydneyite did a term in gaol. On scenting
freedom he resolved to try honesty, and finally
established a small northern sawmill. One morn-
ing a miserable crew of escapees from New
Caledonia reached the coast, and the first man
helped ashore by the Sydney-sider was his erst-
while mate, escaped (for the second time) from
French penal servitude
THE BRIDGE OF SIZE—NOT SO EASY
AS IT LOOKS.
“Another suicide has taken place from the Victoria-
street Bridge—the ‘Swain’ Bridge.”— Melbourne paper.
MAN (at. the top): “Now, I'll just allow for the
wind a bit—give a lurch to the left, and clear
them there buttresses; and then I'll draw me
'ands and legs in quick and throw meself
into the turgid stream."
“Viking,” a sour-minded scoffer, writes
thus:—
In S.M. Herald of 17th May a correspondent suggests
that in the event of retrenchment in N.S.W. Naval
Brigade the officers and men who went to China should
be considered. So they should. A moment’s considera-
tion of their public-spirited actions should result in their
instant dismissal when retrenchment is in the air. That
patriotic body was asked to go to China at 4s. 6d. per day
(same rate that other men were then getting for doing
hard and dangerous soldiering in Africa), and only eight
men volunteered. When the rate was increased to 7s. 6d.
per day they went pretty well en masse. That needs no
comment, but some people would like to know why the
pay was raised. Then instructions were issued that no
midshipmen were to be sent, probably with the object of
preventing junior clerks from holding responsible posi-
tions in a naval force on active service. But the powers
met that by raising their white-headed boys to officer’s
rank at 255. per day. Why was that done ? Of course
the Brigade heroes would have fought if called on. The
fact, however, remains that they didn’t fight; but they did
bring baok a goodly hoard of valuables, which men (even
though in receipt of the princely wage of 7s. 6d. per day,
including Sundays) cannot usually afford to buy. Com-
ment on that point is needless also. By all means
give proper consideration to the case of these warriors.
* • * •
The “ bridle-track ” from Katoomba to
Jenolan Caves is rapidly disappearing. The
route was originally marked by blazed trees, but
owing to recent bush fires most of the trees them-
selves have disappeared. And just now, when
water is so soarce in the valley, it would be death
to lose one’s way. Perhaps when some tourist
goes amissing the authorities will take steps to
re-mark the track.
The Council of the National Gallery should
be supreme in all Art matters in N.S.W. If the
present trustees will not do for such a council, and
can’t be kicked out, and won’t resign, swamp
them, or amend the Act under which they hold
office. Give the State, by some means, an advis-
ing and controlling body, competent and fully em-
powered, and let that body have first and last
word in all Art affairs. N.S.W. has suffered tor-
tures through lack of such a body in the past, and,
unless dynamite gets to work, posterity will have
to endure. Look at the statues which “adorn”
Sydney’s public places. That pantaloon thing of
John Robertson on the Lands Office ; Dr. Lang,
sausage-footed and pudding-headed, in Wynyard
Square; Dailey, cock-a-hoop in his only weak
attitude, in Hyde Park; and old Phillip, all fit only
for the melting-pot or the napping-hammer. Then
the monsters about Phillip, in the Gardens, cry
out “Look at the G.P.O. carvings!” Not one
of those monstrosities could ever have been, had
a properly-constituted Council of Art had an
effective voice in the State.
* * * *
N.S.W. Works Minister O’Sullivan lately
visited Jenolan Caves and returned with a distinct
impression that the present system of accommo-
dation needs reform. There is but one accommo-
dation-house, and the tariff thereof is prohibitory
to the poor tourist. A few years back a “ second-
class ” house existed, but Govt, bought it ouL
closed it, and gave the lessee of “Cave House
a monopoly. The Caves’ employees, in the
interests of the monopoly, are prohibited from
sheltering anybody, and tucker can’t be bought.
If Government cannot see its way clear to establish
a second-class house, there is no reason why the
present establishment should not have two tariffs
to give a show to the poorer people who wish to
see the Caves.
• • * *
When a man receives a newspaper under
special cover, and with red penoil or ink marks
under or about certain obnoxiously personal
notices, he is not to jump to the conclusion, as a
Federal statesman lately did, that the paper was
designedly sent by the manager or editor. The
person who receives the paper should watch the
solicitors who make occasion to speak to him that
day or the day after. Attorneys in Sydney, a few
or many, send newspapers around in that way
week after week on the off-chance of libel
business.
a * •
Legal technicalities are of real use
sometimes. In a recent Adelaide case a
young man, charged with not obeying an order
to maintain his child, asked to have the order
rescinded, as he could now prove that he was
not the father. Court held that that point
had been previously decided and could not be
reopened. His lawyer then challenged the
order because it styled him the “putative
father,” a thing not mentioned in the Act or
recognised by the Law. ‘ ‘ You might as well
call him ‘Governor of North Adelaide’ or
‘Emperor of Timbuetoo,”’ said the indignant
counsel. Order dismissed as bad on this
technicality. So the mother had to start
afresh to prove him the plain ‘ father, and
this time she failed dismally, it being shown
that she had at various times claimed at least
two other men as co-parents. But the “puta-
tive ” one would never have had the chance
of re-opening his case but for that blessed
word.
* • * •
On three occasions recently, within a
very few days, N.S.W. Supreme Court arose
in its dignity and struck Gentleman One off
the rolls for gross swindling and breach of
faith. Nothing happened to him except
being struck off. A common clerk who got
away with £I2OO or so belonging to his em-
ployer would be struck off the rolls of local
clerkdom quite as effectively, inasmuch as
nobody would employ him in that capacity
again, and he would get three years’ gaol in
in addition, perhaps more. And he would
be alluded to as the prisoner Smith —not
Gentleman One. Of course there is no legal
reason why the fraudulent solicitor should not
be put in gaol as well as struck off the rolls—
the law makes full provision to that effect.
But such is the divinity that hedges in 6s. Bd.
that hardly anybody seems to think of putting
him in gaol. He simply goes away unhin-
dered, with the loot, which is sometimes as
much as he could make at his practioe in
three years.
« • * •
There is still in Scotchbyterian Dune-
din (M.L.) a Gaelic society, ye ken ; and it
meets once a year to declare in broken English
that the Gaelic is a sweet and expressive
language. At the last meeting, chieftain
Dugald M'Phairson ocoupied the chair, and
for twa solid hoors the meetin’ drank whusky
an’ sang songs like “ Ged tha mi gun chrodh
gun aighean,” “Mo thastan boidheach,”
“ Caismeaehd cloim Chamrain,” “ Aribhinn
og”; and several other kinds of og and bhru
ghorst. Some of these people are violent
pro-Gores, and demand that no language but
English shall be permitted in S’Africa. And by
reason of their ignorant obstinacy in perpetuating
a dialect which is mostly og and bhru ghorst,
English isn’t even the universal language in the
United Kingdom.
* * * •
A Fitzroy (Vic.) burglar cleverly robbed a
local jeweller’s window. He fastened a wooden
batten across the shop-door, and then smashed the
window with a stone, and helped himself to £SO
worth of rings, brooches, and watches. Their
owner, hearing the crash, made frantio but in-
effectual efforts to open the barred door. When
he did ultimately get out, the robber had gone
safely away. From the similarity of the methods-
before-the-act, the criminal was probably the
person of “Melb.’s” par. (8., 17/5/’O2). When
the criminal begins to devote the brain-work he
now spends in dodging detection after his crime
to careful preliminary preparation ib will be bad
for society.
* * * *
How these earthquakes are mismanaged I
If instead of murdering all those people in the
Antilles and Guatemala, the authorities were to
start a volcano in the centre of Australia, where
there are no people, and throw up a 20,000 ft.
range of mountains, with glaciers and perpetual
snow, Australia would have five or six big rivers
in two shakes of a comet’s tail, splendid water
sheds, and, for the first time in its interior history,
real weather. Now, if Clement Wragge—but too
late ! —too late !
A CLEVER DODGE.
EDITOR OF BUSH RAG: “ Well, what is it—poem
or subscription?”
YOUTHFUL BUSH-RHYMER (timidly): “ Er—oh—
I’ve brought ” (sees the editor make a move
with the scissors)— “ I mean—a subscription”
(Pays and departs without mentioning the
poem.)
Queenstown (Tas.) has a Ketcheuerian
• reputation as a baby-killer. Last year there were
182 births locally and 66 deaths. Of the deaths 31,
or nearly half, were babies under one year. The
official death-rate among the babies is 170 per
1000. Greatest mortality between Jan. and April,
when the place is all a-steim. It is now the rule
for n.others who can afford it to get away for a
spell; but poverty chains many to the place.
Though Queenstown has an evil reputation for
infant mortality, the sulphur-arsenical fumes from
the smelter furnaces seem to act beneficially on
anaemic constitutions. Writer knows many pallid
Hobart girls who have found roses (where no
flower groweth) in a few mouths at Queenstown.
Most of them found husbands also. Probably
cause and effect, whichever way you look at it.
• • * *
“ Alone ” :
There is one thing to be thankful for about the modern
“revivals” conduoted by preachers of the Geil stamp.
The attacks of hallucination and temporary insanity
they induce are mild and transitory, compared with the
hideous effects produced by “ revivalists ” of a decade or
two back, to say nothing of a century or two back, when
every human being was looked upon as the likely abode of
several devils. In those days it was common for people
“ convicted of sin ” at revivalist meetings to take fits,
and “ writhe horribly in the clutches of the devils ” ;
scream out, and go stark mad. Nowadays, instead of
shrieking Hell at his victims till their hair stands up, the
Geilfull revivalist tells them funny stories, makes them
laugh and feel at ease. The worst that happens nowadays
is that some ewe lamb faints, or some weak brother sobs
a little before conversion. A few years ago there struck
the Vic. town where this scribe lived an apostle of Gloom,
Of the deepest hell’s-your-portion dye. He soon had a
numerous following, mostly women. After a rather
stormy career of a few weeks the apostle had a
vision, which he confided to his chosen ones.
They were to discard everything, except white
garments, and go at daybreak to a small mount
five miles out, and the Lord would appear, and take them
to heaven in a cloud. The apostle led out his little band
of believers, in their snowy garments, at the break of
day ; the summit of the mount was seen to be enveloped
in clouds; and their faith was great. In their enthusi-
asm they were unconscious of cold or discomfort. They
marched up into the cloud singing lustily. Then they
fell on their faces, and prayed loud and long. But alas !
no matter how hard they prayed they were still
only lying on a cold mountain top in spotless but dread-
fully inadequate raiment. And it was cold. After much
shivering, heads began to be raised and questions asked.
Then the stern voice of the apostle was heard demanding
who was the unfaithful one whose unbelief had caused
the project to fail ? A lot of draggled and shamefaced
she-saints began to make their way back to town as fast
as possible ; their re-appearance created much merri-
ment. One lady, whose husband had not yet risen, knocked
at her door many times before she got any answer—
meanwhile a crowd was gathering and asking all sorts of
rude questions. At last a voice from within called out
“ Who’s there 1 ” “ Oh, James, open the door, it’s me ;
your wife 1 ” “Go away, you shameless hussy 1 how can
you be my wife? My wife went to heaven in a cloud at
daybreak 1 Go away 1 ” She only trot in after much
delay. The revivalist still conducted his meetings as if
nothing extraordinary had happened, until somebody
threatened to shoot him and he then took up hia last
collection and disappeared.
m • * •
S.A. Govt, has gathered up certain heaps
of stone on a plot of land behind Adelaide
destitute asylum, and has made it known that
any married man who wants to earn rations for
his wife and children may have food if he will
crack the equivalent amount of metal. Premier
Jenkins is surprised that so few avail themselves
of the chance to thus pay for their rations.
• * * *
Melbourne’s post-mortem expert, Dr. Neild,
at a recent inquest: “More than 50 per cent, of
boarded-oufc children who have come under my
notice suffer from a specific congenital disease.”
And Coroner Dr. Cole wentfurtner: “Probably
the public isn’t aware that the records show that
seven out of ten of these poor mites die in this
dreadful way.”
* * * *
A Melbourne grocer found a strange man
on his balcony the other night, and hollered for
the police as excited grocers do under such cir-
cumstances. Very soon two detectives, who were
providentially in the vicinity, loomed upon the
scene, recognised the intruder as a hardened
offender of the worst sort, and took him away to
receive seven years’ hard. None of the three
was heard of again, however, and as the burglar
couldn’t well have eaten the two ’tecs, the grocer
now concludes that they were also burglars, and
that things were satisfactorily arranged as soon
as they got round the corner. _ A story built on
exactly these lines appeared in a recent English
magazine, and was reprinted in various Australian
papers. Probably the three burglars, or the
grocer, had read it.
The Caucasian is not quite played out.
One of them recently, in an Australian
town, charged a Chinese neighbor
with having stolen a rail from his
fence. The case came on ; tha
prosecutor swore manfully,
and identified the stolen
rail which he had seen in
the Chinaman’s garden.
The heathen’s defence
was mostly “nosavee”
and “whaffor.” The
Bench convicted and
sentenced him to some
months. Same afternoon
prosecutor rushed up to his
Worship (a local trader) to
say he had made a mistake :
“ When I went home I told
my wife I had got Ah Cow
gaoled for stealing my rail.
She asked me what rail, and
when I told her it was the rail
from the side fence she said she
had taken it to prop the fowl-
house up, and there it was against
the fowl-house.” “Never mind,”
said the Bench blandly—“ never mind. If he
didn’t steal it from you he might have stolen it
from someone else. Let him stay there ! ” And
he did. ,
The gipsies are in Sydney. From the
camp at Bellevue Hill they send parties of women
all over the city and suburbs, who will tell for-
tunes for anyone who crosses the rather dirty
palm with silver. Some of these women are
rather good-looking, in a heavy, sensual Oriental
style—indeed, in dress and appearance, they
might easily pass for the Maltese or Syrian
women that have been long familiar locally.
By readers of Borrow, they will be re-
garded with interest, for they are Spanish
Zingari, who have come here from the Argentine.
On Sunday last a large crowd went to see their
camp, and worried them with crackers and
curiosity until an irate woman split one meddle-
some fellow’s head open with a jam-tin, and
knocked another down with a delf dish. There
was one policeman on the ground, but he was
wrapped in a sublime abstraction, which pre-
vented him seeing anything.
* ■* * *
The Chief Justice of Victoria, whose
ordinary name is Madden, has brought the first
edition of the Henty Will Case to a close by
delivering judgment. The hearing of the case
lasted 47 days, and thence came a pause of five
months whilst the learned Judge prepared a
decision. Finally His Honor came back to his
perch with 500 pp. of MS., which occupied six-and-
a-half hours in the,reading. Regarded as a work
of legal art the Henty Case was truly beautiful
and harmonious. It put £lO,OOO into the pockets
of the lawyers because it lasted 47 days. The
long-delayed judgment was written out at the
rate of 100 pages per month for five months, and
as to the allegation of fraud by the trustees of the
Henty estate (which was the main issue, involving
a sum of not more than £lO,OOO in all) the Court
ordered each side to pay its own costs. One of
the defendants was removed from the trusteeship
without a stain of dishonesty on his character.
Otherwise the trial gave no satisfaction to any-
body, save the lawyers. God Save the King !


9
w
C KAvCnETTES
Are the Ideal Rubrics
for
RAINCOATS.
Do you like Coffee ?
Perfect, Pure,
Fragrant, Exhilarating Coffee
Then Try
Coffee Essence
THE VERY BEST /
Gold
Medal
Australian Representatives:
SWIFT & COMPANY,
7 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY.
P.D. Corsets } Latest Specialty, Straight Front, Erect Form ( P.D. Corsets
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, June 3, 1902.
My Dear Arini.—
Out at Bondi (Sydney), where the low downs
lean to the sea, amongst the short scrub, bottle-
brushes and wastes of gliding sand, at the red
golf-house, the president of the Sydney Golf
Club, Mr. B. R. Wise, and Mrs. Wise gave an
At Home last Saturday. It was a big gathering—
well-looking, well-dressed. Some of it drove the
best horses in Sydney, and some of it came in
motor cars (the noise of those cars is the best imi-
tation of the sound of falling rain that I have
heard, excepting, perhaps, Bland Holt’s stage
rain), but most of it came in ’buses and cabs.
Judge Rogers, for instance, came down in a
hansom, which, of itself, is not as worth chronicling
as if he had arrived in a chariot of fire; but, after
he had ascended the steps to greet his hostess, his
cabby desired to tell him that he had left some-
thing in the vehicle, and democratically hailed
him : “ Hi, hi, Jedge ! ” whistling shrilly through
his teeth. Our Indian summer still endured
and the weather was peerless—no more breeze than
would please a butterfly, not enough to stir the
feathers in Mrs. Wise’s hat, or ruffle her corn-
flower-blue gown. Some unreliable authorities
present thought that Mr. Wise intended a slight to
the mother-in-law country because he wore a grey
tweed suit and straw hat instead of the frock-coat
and belltopper in which Mackennal will one far
day do his statue —when he’s dead. But just then
the French Consul came along with Some Two in
his wake, far finer than the Milky Way. They
were very handsome young French gentlemen;
one, the Comte Periti de la Rocca, was the only
sample of hereditary nobility present. The other
was Chancelier M. Mettement. The Comte was
dressed in a white Panama hat, a short, dark-blue
jacket, black and white check trousers, small pink
and white check tie, white gloves, cornflower-blue
shirt, white spats and. tan boots, and as it was
very muddy and raining that afternoon in the
Faubourg St. Germain he wore his trousers turned
up six inches.
Some beautiful reds amongst the dress colors at
this At Home. One in particular was a glowing
crimson cloth ; but of so fine and soft a tone that
it could be seen only, and felt; it couldn’t be
heard. Some purplish pinks there were that lifted
their voices above the crash-bang of the R.A.A.
string band. Not so many of those whiskery
dress stuffs such as zibeline, frieze and Esau cloth
—good definition!—were abroad. The wife
of the member for Goulburn, Mrs. Ashton, was
Esau-clothed, and looked as if she had spent the
morning in a cattery, hugging the meow-meows.
A lot of greys, with an undertone of pink in them,
were around. Mrs. Burdekin and her daughter
were pinkly-greyly clad. Mrs. T. Hughes had
a harmonious combination of black, pale
blue and violets. One of the latest “en-
gaged ” came clothed in white linen and
white silk (what a climate we have, to
be sure !), and a big white straw hat. By the
way, the number of big young women —women
who topped their male escorts by half-a-head, and
who had let their figures run classically wild, was
very noticeable. Several Judges and two arch-
bishops came along Archbishops Smith and
Kelly; the last ministered to the Orange Pekoe
needs of Lady Rawson in the refreshment marquee.
No disloyalty intended, but I forgot the Rawsons
till this minute. They came so late. No track
had been blazed for the English coachman, so he
took the wrong turning 14 times and got as far out
of his way as that extinct crater at Hornsby. The
Admiral-Governor was in his Sunday “ blacks” ;
Lady Rawson was black-and creamy and silver-
foxy. Miss was nice in blue and fawn. Banjo
Paterson said an au revoir previous to leaving
that eve on his New Hebridean trip. Even then
his barque, with sails unfurled, awaited him in the
offing. The man who wrote of Push Psychology,
and was consulting counsel to the King of the
Reservoir-street Push, was the most elegantly-
clad male present, and looked like a highlv-cultured
undertaker.
N.S.W. State Governor, his lady, and Miss
Rawson have left the Australia, and are now at
“ Cranbrook,” with which they profess to be very
pleased. At present they are kept occupied in
“signifying their intention to be present,” etc.
Some of these “ significations ” affect the ball in
aid of the North Shore Hospital in Sydney Town
Hall on the 19th, and the Tempo Hospital Ball
(at which the Gov.-General will also attend).
Mesdames O’Sullivan and P. E. Quinn are hon.
secs. The Rawsons are also taking an interest in
the Lewisham Hospital, and were present at a
meeting there last Wednesday.
Fresh Air Leaguers were very lucky in their
ball this year: they had the first of the vice-regal
people, and the first of the charity-dance season.
Hon. secs. Mrs. Caro and Mrs. Cohen were absent
through family bereavements, but Miss Margaret
Harris was at her post. The decorations and
some of the refreshments, including meats, winged
and otherwise, had been donated by charitable
ladies. Nearly 800 on the dancing floor and 1000
in _ the galleries. Twenty-six girls came out at
this dance : twenty-six debutantes—white-chif-
foned, white-garlanded, fluffy-haired, flushed with
the excitement of an already-filled programme, or
white with the wall-flower terror. It is a most
serious influx, such a lot of buds at every ball
(public and private), and it adds to the perplexity
of this drought-stricken country, where squatters
who haven’t a hoof left are suiciding or. going
demented. The Governor, lady, and daughter
were received by the Mayoress of Sydney, Miss
M. Harris, Mrs. Finn, Admiral and Lady Beau-
champ. Sydney doesn’t consider the Rawsons are
day-after-to-morrow in point of fashion-date. It
is both pleased and grieved that the Rawson ladies
can’t teach them anything about street or ball-
dressing.
Opening of Parliament is sometimes a brilliant
ceremony, but in its sameness is always as
monotonous as the opening of oysters. Occasionally
a new opener gives variety. State Governor
Rawson opened N.S.W. State Parliament last
Wednesday. Seated in his chair of state on a dais
and wearing a cocked hat and all his medals,
sashes, and orders, with his short neck and kindly,
rather German, face, his likeness to King Ned
was so strong that it struck everyone who had
never seen the monarch (save in portraits). In
the semi-darkness of the chamber, looks, dress and
personality of the women visitors were levelled.
There was nothing humorous save the- appear-
ance of those lackeys who carry long white
billiard cues. On Tennyson’s authority “ nothing
walks with aimless feet,” so those persons
must have their uses—probably to amuse people.
You know the President of the Association for
the Study of the Mind of the Hen. Well, she—
the President, not the hen —was bidden to the
opening of P., but on arrival there found she had
left her card of invitation elsewhere. When she
E resented her official pasteboard, which sets forth
er name and her status in the A.S.M.H. —well,
one of the white wandsmen took it, let it fall, and
superciliously remarked: “That’s not a kyard !”
(Orthography cannot convey the hardness with
which persons from Ballywhackmaquew pro-
nounce the hard C.) “No,” said the weary Hen
student, “then it must be a wheelbarrow.” She
was saved from being thrown down on to the
bayonets of the guard by the arrival of the
Governor.
Mr. F. B. Suttor, on behalf of Parliament, pre-
sented Lady Rawson with a bouquet of blue and
white violets, tied with streamers of Highland
ribbon with the date of the opening in gold
letters.
Why don’t more of us dwell in camps ? Some
of us do, I know, but scores that could, do not.
They think they own their houses, electro-plate
and pictures, but their houses, pictures and plate
own them, and keep them ignorant of the most
glorious life, &c., &c. For years, I have yearned
for a camp where I could go out in the sunset’s
purple air, with my brown-eyed dog, and cut my
twig bed with an axe, spread newspapers on the
gumleaf palliass (and be kept awake all night by
their rustling); where I might watch in the twi-
light timid rabbits come hopping out to browse
around me (I sitting on my dog the while, to keep
him quiet); where I could boil my billy and broil
the fish that I had caught on the coals that I had
fired ; where I could dream amongst wild flowers,
and listen to the locust’s song, where every leaf
spoke to me with a tongue of Pentecost.
Upon a day I met one who had a camp, so he said.
It was water-tight, the canvas in good repair, and,
as he thought of going away to Coronate, I might
have it. Rashly I offered 7s. 6d. a week for it, as
it stood, but he, being honest and Scotch, depre-
cated the reckless offer, and said I might not care
to stand to the extra saxpenee if I saw the place.
I went to see where it sits by the sea, Rose Bay
way. A Yale lock opened a door in a high wall
and admitted me to a garden—to a garden full
of tame flowers. There was a two-stall stable,
with tiled porcelain dado of dragons and waratahs
and mirrors, in which the polished brumbies
look to see if the stars on their foreheads are
straight. The “tent ” was a series of rooms open-
ing on a lawn, and the wretched owner had
kept up a miserable assumption of cam pish ness
by having a canvas door to his pinewood sleep-
ing lair. There was a bathroom with hot and
cold water, and a doll’s drawing-room with stan-
dard lamps, and instead of the charred circle
that bespeaks the bush fireplace an ex-Union
Club chef hung over a range, and, later, served
foreign birds in a hessian dining-room, where
there was a piano, and Ashton’s, Long's,
and Nerli’s pictures. Nearer the sea was an eighth
of a mile of a bush-house with orchids and gold-
fish, and nearer still a jasper yard full of prize
collies. The whole thing, from the Yale lock to
the concrete sea-wall, was so disenchanting that I
haughtily withdrew my offer. Besides, they who
rent such camps, much less own them, will be
called upon some day to do the eye-of-the-needle
juggle or stay outside the kingdom of Heaven.
Barron Morley, whose first concert takes place
to-night (Thursday), in the Town Hall, is a young
Australian pianist who has been studying his art
in Vienna for the last four years, and comes to us
after a brilliant tour in America, where critics
spoke rapturously of him. Wine and spice, and
fire and flowers are said to be in the music he
makes.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent
“T’other night, when the Hopetouns saw the
‘Thirty Thieves,’ the Gov.-Gen., the Countess,
and her dark, spectacled brother had the mana-
ger’s box, while Wally and Dr. Philson tenanted
the one opposite. Edward Lauri, a smart, spry,
acrobatic little comedian, with a fleeting look of
his uncle George, a decided resemblance to Bland
Holt, and something suggestive of Fitzgerald’s
‘ dummy ’ clown, plays secretary to the Mayor.
When secretaries in general were being discussed
on the stage the Hopies looked across at Wally
and laughed, but when their own turn came, and
a special verse was devoted to ‘ himself’s ’ flit,
they were all on the jumps. I suppose they had
approved of the reference beforehand, or it would
have been omitted, but it touched them up all the
same. The Hopetoun, of course, passed it off
with an extra-cordial clap, tactful to the last. It’s
depressing to think of the stout, crude peers who
will descend upon us in a long line, stretching
out to the ‘crack of doom,’ when Earl Charming
departs.
“ The ‘3O thieves ’ are dressy marauders, lead-
ing off in black-satin evening clothes, top-hats,
knee-breeches, silk hose, etc. Piddock, their
captain, tops his magnificence by black-satin
Inverness cloak, lined with white, its corners
turned back with jewelled coronets. Later, the
‘thieves,’ having ‘rescued’ the 30 girls, dress for
the ladies in crimson-satin Court-suits, Piddock
‘going one better ’ in brocade of the same color,
while a glittering garter advertises both his rank
and the shapeliness of his shin. Piddock is hailed
by some as a second Ryley, and his spry ankles,
and hair brushed low on his forehead, have a ten-
dency to recall the lamented favorite —though
he is rather more staid and portly than Charles
the Beautiful. On the other hand, he is
more agile than Brownlow, who beats him, how-
ever, in full, ringing voice quality. May Beattie,
as the Mayor’s plump daughter, affects shortish,
decollete frocks, one pink, t’other white, dotted
with green rosettes round the hem, and worn with
green shoes and hose. Josephine Stanton, the
winsome young thing whose voice seems satur-
ated with coon syrup, is a pretty maid-of-all-work
in muslin pinny and flowery hat. As the 1 thieves ’
guest she blossoms forth in skittish white and
silver.
“Governor Clarke played leading role at the
State Parliament Opening on Tuesday. He had
not been seen in the part before, and a little in-
terest crept into the eyes of the tired crowd that is
summoned twice a year to ‘assist’ at these open-
ing and shutting functions. The sad news that
the President’s dame was serving a period of
MR. F. BARRON MORLEY, THE
AUSTRALIAN PIANIST.
Photo, by J. Hubert Newman, Sydney.
bereavement for a relative, and could not give the
usual ‘At Home’—a music, tea, and talk con-
glomeration-kept many people away. The lan-
guishing, wind-tossed figure of Mrs. Isaacs, the
vivid rose hue of Miss Rose Mason’s frock, the
blazing blue theatre-cloak of dark-eyed Mrs. N.
Grimwade were but a few breaks in the monotony
of frumpishness. The Guv’nor’s dame was in her
well-tried bibulous gown and party toque. The
contented and good-tempered daughter aired a
familiar blue frock with John Bull trimmings of
gory red and white, and a toque distinctly home-
trimmed. The V.R. potentate, dressed in many
gold fixings, clanked into the chamber with an
important little swaggah, surpassing much the
Brassey and Madden manner.
“Mr. Agar Wynne had to press Mrs. Jenkins
into service as hostess at the diminutive tea to
Lady Clarke, as his own wife was ill. This cur-
tailed funotion was a homely affair. No super-
fluous rustle there. The chief guest beamed on
the little circle and waved aside all ceremony in a
way that elated the unaffected homely brood.
Miss Clarke talked Amy Castles and music. She
calls the well-paying voice a lyric soprano, and
likes it fairly well. She asked new girl acquaint-
ances to tea. ‘ What is your number ? I’ll ring
you up!’ Half-a-dozen are now waiting to be
rung up by the bonnie lass of ‘ Stonington.’ ‘ Isn’t
she a darling?’ the delighted girlets gush forth.
She is certainly a pleasant relief after the refriger-
ating process of talk with bygone Y.R. lights.
“ Most notable at the last Castles concert was
Mrs. Claude Macdonald, about again in all her
new motherly dignity. She was thin, but sar-
torially resplendent. Her voluminous cream
chiffon and lace cloak frills washed over on the
bleak clerical coat of pastor O’Connell, whom she
chatted to in her bright way. The lady returns to
‘ Wantabadgery ’ for the important babe-naming
and church-blessing ceremony. The local Jordan
waters are perhaps considered more salutary than
the Yan Yean mixture. Another swagger' dame
at the Castles’ sing-song was Mrs. Donald Mac-
donald, whom half of Sassiety genuinely envies
for her lovely olive-branches.
“ Daisy Belmore (Mrs. Waxman) was the
dressiest of the programme sirens at the Kennedy
matinee last Friday. Miss Linda Raymond was
the briskest and most attractive of the others,
with Miss May Chevalier and Miss F. Green an
attractive second and third. The big audience
was a musty one—in point of dress. Mrs.
Lawson, in the front row of the stalls, dis-
tinguished herself in black, with striking frescoes
of scarlet, and a hussar cap of the hardest and
severest description. Mrs. N. Menzies sat
huddled up like a grandfather enveloped in furs
in a corner of the circle. Although Dorothy
Vane imports none of her old-time stage gaiety
into her married life she is a close and constant
chum of that other chorus siren, Dora -D’Amele,
who is always brimful of fun.
“Among the matinee stars, Eugenie Duggan
sported the loveliest frock. It was an effective
white point d’esprit muslin, frilled almost from
the hem to the knees. Violets at the corsage and
waist were a happy thought. A large white felt
hat was banked up with violets frosted over in
parts with snowy tulle. The Caselli sisters
startled the Naicest in the audience with their leg
convolutions. Those not used to Rickards’ rockets
had their breath taken away by these leg-twisting
sisters. That’s the best—or worst—of a matinee;
you get a wide and varied field of view. Mel-
bourne girls of the school series fell in love
with Lauri the younger. He wore his own face,
and that uncalled-for, but naice, scarlet satin
thief suit. Mr. Piddock (one must say ‘Mr.’to
him) thrilled the more matured with one of the
Thieves’ vocal gems. A little Dorie Duckett
executed some wonderful dancing on the toe-tips,
and Charlotte Hemming’s recitation atoned for
some of the other lone hands.
“ A terrible raid by some hundred gentle
daughters of Eve on the refreshment-tables at the
Prahran Mayoral Reception was something worse
than the usual hungry onslaught at gratuitous
social feasjfcs. Women, tossed and torn in the con-
tending currents of the surging crowd, were so
ravenous that by the time they really were swept
up to the precious buffet they seized anything
they could lay hands on, and were unconsciously
eating bananas through their veils with desperate
energy. A _ sorrowful sight. Plates of sweets
were swept into hand-bags, and anathemas hurled
at the devastated sandwich-plates.
‘ ‘ The massage craze is not limited to women.
In bne well-known skin-and-nail-polishing resort
the pretty manicurists tell you, as they pink your
filberts, and file and brush them, that ‘ Gentlemen
are our best patrons; we visit some, and some
don’t mind coming here. ’ Busy city men climb
the stairs at odd times during the day, and enter
the beauty parlors for nail-mending, cutting and
‘ nibbing. The heavy scents of the atmosphere
gather around them, shutting out the dust and
grit and nastiness of the city, while dainty fingers
apply the sponge and the brush and the rose-
water and the rose-powder to the horny commer-
cial paws. What a relaxation ! No wonder they
like it.
“ T’other day, Mrs. Storey, State-school cookery
expert, treated local big-wigs to viands, cooked by
her pupils and selected from a schedule purporting
to feed a family of six, plus a baby, at a
weekly cost of 18s. Minister of Educa-
tion Gurr pronounced the provender ‘ excel-
lent,' but house-mothers scout the m4nu as
impracticable at the price. To begin with, Mrs.
Storey calculates the cost of weekly firing at about
2s.—not enough, considering that the schedule
contains 47 items plus 9 jorums of boiling-water
for tea—all to be cooked for 2s. Maybe, the
Department pupils, with their patent cookers and
time-saving stoves, can manage all the stewed
tripe, rabbit-pie, bullock’s heart, &c., &c., at the
price, but the ordinary woman, with next to no
appliances, shakes her head mournfully at the
hopelessness of it all. Then there’s the utensil
question. The Department cooks, I’m told, are
supplied with expensive pots galore, such beauties
as even the middle-class housewife sees only in
her dreams. Practical rub-a-dubs also criticise
the Storey scheme as too costly of time. The
toiler’s household fairy, you see, can’t devote
her life to economical, professional cookery for
her hungry family. To keep things decent on 48s.
per week—the amount mentioned by Mrs. Story—
she must also sew, darn, patch, wash, scrub, &e.,
which knocks her out as a chef of many dishes.
Of course, if the girls at the department class are
being trained with a view to taking up the pro-
fession of cookery in rich households, these obser-
vations are beside the mark. They themselves
are sure of good wages in the future, and those
citizens who can afford to pay trained cooks will
be in clover, but the laborer of days to come won’t
be much better fed than at present till some
cookery expert comes along and trains the young-
sters to do the very best that can be done with a
so-so colonial oven, a frying-pan, a saucepan, and
a kettle.
“The Ward-Cole assignment supports the
popular contention that, in Australia, money is
less stationary than in England, where wealth
apparently hugs the same family for generations.
Old Captain Ward-Cole, founder of the local
clan, left the loveliest old home at Brighton
(Melb.), with a wonderful garden running down
to the sea. Till now, the bosky haven has
remained in the family, and whenever marrying
or giving in marriage has been mooted in the
extensive Ward-Cole connection, the happy pair
and their following were bidden to hold tne revels
at the old Brighton place. Many a bonnie bride
has been ‘ busked ’ in the hospitable Eden, whose
present mistress, npw fallen on lean times, is a
straight-backed, staunch, churchy spinster of the
old school.
“Four Melbourne girls left ror London by the
Persic, intent upon climbing the slippery stairs to
fame and fortune. One of the travellers is Miss
Edith Berry, daughter of Graham B. and sister-
in-law of Mr. Sandes, of the Abgus. Another is
Hope Mayne, a tall, decorative member of the
Arnold and Willoughby co’s. Everyone wishes
the wanderers the best of luck and reiterates the
names of Australiennes, born or adopted, who
have mended their fortunes by a move to the big
city. Miss Sutton, who left here with a theatrical
co. for S’Africa, was next heard of as proprietress
of a tea-room over there and is now succeeding as
a costumiere in London. Mrs. Maesmore Morris,
Maggie Stirling and Agnes Murphy are other
cases in point.
“ In the 1 Mariners of Englftfid,’ Miss Duggan’s
series of Empire gowns suffers from bulky
bunchiness of build. Moreover, the bright-blue
of her first is cruelly trying and makes its wearer
unnaturally ghastly and haggard for an Admiral’s
‘lovely niece,’ described by Nelson (who knew a
pretty woman when he saw her) as ‘ Beauty and
Innocence, personified.’ Later, Miss Duggan
escapes from her sartorial blues into a more
merciful costume of primrose satin, embroidered
down the front with white flowers, but she sub-
sequently retrogrades into bundlesome white, and
thence relapses into the clutches of the aforesaid
blue devil of her wardrobe.
“Winsome, mellow-voiced Maggie Stirling
(Mrs. Riddell) has made up her mind to remain in
London, where far more is to be earned singing at
At Homes, etc., than hereabouts—a consideration
for a family breadwinner to ponder over. Very
soon, the home-sick Australian hopes to send for
her delicate husband and her two children to cheer
her exile.
“One of the smart marriages announced for
June is that of Miss Winnie Davey, daughter of
Alderman Davey, with Mr. George Bruce, a
martial son of the Flinders-lane chiffon-merchant.
The bride-elect is a chic little girl who has de
veloped the swan-in-a-gondola air since her trip
’Ome. She is one of the smartest frockers in
Melbourne, and is devoted to a step-mama only a
few years her senior, which is a commendable
virtue in an up-to-date daughter.
“ Mr, Macdonald Paterson delivered his epi-
curean mind of some old-fashioned sentiments in
the House of Reps., the other night, when de-
ploring the loss through the departure of a liberal
Governor-General to the world of tradespeople.
He read out a list purporting to be the
golden menu of the dress, hat, and brolly lay-out
over a function at the glass-house on the hill. But
he was quite out in his calculations. About fifty
women (at the most) spent the ten guineas on a
costume, three guineas on a hat, and one guinea
on a gamp. The two thousand odd turn out on
almost a quarter of this, and they include some of
the smartest in the community. It is the new-
rich arrival in Sassiety that spends lavishly on
her haberdashery fixings. The fashionable limit
their dress-builders unmercifully, while the smart
very often buy the showiest material and ‘ run it
up ’ with their own fair hands.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
A graceful form and well moulded bust
are essential to perfect beauty. LacU, the
wonderful “Skin Food” is nature’s remedy for
giving back those essentials when lost through
sickness or action of time, and for supplying them
when constitutionally deficient. It fills all hollows,
develops and gives a charming roundness to neck
and arms. Price 7s. Gd. per jar, post Bs. 3d.
Westall Guest, Toilet Specialist to the Gov.-
General, 229 Bourke-street, Melbourne.


CITIZENS’ LIFE assurance co., Ltd.
Has Money to Lend
on security of Freehold City or Suburban
Properties, Good Dairy Farms, Agricultural
and Grazing Lands (Freehold or C.P. & C.L.)
or Government Stock of any of the Austealian States or New Zealand,
At the Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Loans may be arranged for a fixed term or repayable by Instalments, without notice or
payment of any fine.
Kiippers Elberfeld Lager.
The United Typewriter and Supplies Co.,
one of the largest concerns manufacturing type-
writers, seems to be getting more of its share of
the world’s business. One of its machines, the
“Yost,” was favoured recently by the Indian
Government with an order for one hundred and
twenty machines. In addition to this their
Australian representative now reports the sale of
five hundred “ New Century ” Typewriters for use
on the Government Railways. An important
fact is that these two are record orders for the
world, and, what is more important in the eyes of
the Company, were obtained in competition with
all the leading makes. Australian buyers can
obtain both of these machines from the Company’s
office in Sydney, Melbourne and Perth.*
Hotel Cecil &
Restaurant
Largest and most magnificent Hotel in Europe.
Overlooking 1 the picturesque Embankment Gardens and river.
LONDON.
Moderate Charges
Telegraphic Address:
i Bedrooms lio-ht and attendance included, from 6s. per day. Breakfast, from‘2s.;
‘ lunch, 3s. 6d); dinner, 6s. Suites, ensuring.absolute privacy, from 245. per day.
CECELIA, LON3ON. A. JUDAH, Manager.
Australia
vlilCtftEST * Wines
in
Supplied to H.R.H. the Duke of York
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Suggested by that Sydney breach-of-
promise case; “ A rolling stone gathers no
Moss.”
Premier Peacock next Wednesday (June
11) will complete his 41st year and Represent-
ative Braddon on the same day will be 73.
“ Banjo ” Paterson has gone to the New
Hebrides to have a look-round. He is in hard
condition, thinner than ever, and will not tempt
the cannibals.
There are four N.S.W. solicitors of the
40’s still living—Mr. A. H. M'Culloeh (1844),
Mr. W. Russell (1846), Mr. James Norton (1848),
in N.S.W., and W. W. Billyard (1847) in Eng-
land,
W. T. Dick is the latest N.S. Wales
M.L.i*. to be admitted to the Bar. Dick is clever
and industrious, and used to be a schoolmaster;
he has been trained as an actuary, and is now a
lawyer.
W. G. Higgs, one of the best Democrats
in the Senate, is a continual cause of offence to
the Tory Simon Fraser. The latter fairly writhes
at the sarcasms of Higgs, whose somewhat dismal
face is an admirable mask for much latent humor.
Brewer Hon. John T. Toohey with his
brother Jim, in the early 60’s, kept a small hotel
in Emerald Hill, a Melbourne suburb. Now, a
generation later, he floats his Sydney brewery for
more than half a million. “ There’s nothing like
leather ’’—except Beer.
Jules Joubert, Australia’s old friend of
many shows, is again to the fore as manager of the
proposed International Exhibition in Melbourne.
Whatever is known about exhibitions, Joubert
should know. He is now close on 80, and has
been conducting them since 1844.
At Cathcart (Bombala district, N.S.W.),
recently, Mr. and Mrs. M‘Coy celebrated the 60th
anniversary of their wedding, which took place in
’42, at Bibbenluke (N.S.W.). The husband and
wife are 99 and 77 years old respectively, and have
been 70 years on the Monaro, arriving there from
Ireland in 1832.
" AUSTRALIA’S NOBLEST SON.”
They didn’t polish their boots or their
tongues to go to some of those bush meetings
which Lands Minister Crick addressed in the
N.S.W. Far West. They just came along with
their ordinary blankies, and Crick took a few out
from the city. On the whole, Crick leaves them
unconvinced that his Western Lands Act is work-
able.
Manchester Guardian, in Prof. Wood’s
now famous article on “Australia and the War,
refers to the N.S.W. Premier as “Mr. Gee.
Evidently a misprint, but it suggests the possibility
of the Colonial Office making a similar mistake
and posting that long-looked-for knighthood to
Mr. Lee. Such is fame.
The retirement of Librarian O’Donovan
from the service in Queensland produces a gentle
sort of regret, especially among those who like
their public officials neat in person and gracious
in manner. Mr. O’Donovan loved high life, and
particularly doated on the refined, whether in the
matter of books or people.
“The Maori ‘King,’ Mahutu, is to be ap-
pointed a member of the Legislative Council, now
that he has ceased his agrarian agitations,” a
Maoriland message says. As with Mahutu, so
with digger “King” Seddon ; he is to be ap-
pointed to something big “now that he has
ceased ” to be a democrat.
Labor-member Hugh Mahon represents
the largest constituency —in point of area —in the
Federal House of Reps. It has an area of about
670,000 square miles—about the size of Queens-
land. Page (Maranoa), another Labor man, has
the second largest electorate, and represents just
about one-half of Queensland.
Old Dr. Torreggiani, R.C. Bishop of
Armidale (N.S.W.), is announced to be physically
in bad straits. Dr. Torreggiani met with the
injury, which it is now feared will lead to a crisis,
by falling through the floor of a buggy. The seat
gave way, the floor gave way, and the 20-stone
bishop crashed to the ground.
John Norton’s latest attack on an enemy
of his, for coarse (though prosaic and uningenious)
vituperation “ lays over ” anything The Bulletin
ever read in any newspaper since the days when
one San Francisco editor alluded to the editor
across the way as “an iridescent, putrescent,
phosphorescent mass of festering corruption.”
Senator Harney explained in the House
t’other evening that he was misled into talking
Protectionist views by the Australian wine he had
had for dinner; as the effects of it wore off he
became Freetrade again. Sobriety is a crime in
people like Senator Harney. There are plenty of
men who need a little wine for their brain’s sake.
President Steyn, of the
Orange Free State, is going blind
and dying of two incurable and
agonising complaints Bright’s
disease and locomotor ataxia. Yet
he is an irreconcilable of the irre-
comMables, and led the last
wrecks of the thinned commandos
in their hopeless struggle. History
has produced few heroes who rank
ahead of this “cowardly Boer,” as
the stay-at-home Jingo lawyers
and politicians of Australia were
fond of calling him two years ago.
“Ithuriel,” in the Argus,
on the clear, incisive delivery of
Prime Minister Barton :
Mr. Barton could not, for the life of
him, say, “It is a fine day.” If ques-
tioned on the subject, his reply would
probably be something like this: “I
am prepared, as I always am, to make
the most frank and explicit statement
on this important subject. There are
certain conditions present in the atmos-
phere which might well lead those who
take a superficial view of the subject to
assert, with more or less assurance,
according as they were swayed one way
or the other by their personal idiocyn-
crasies, that the day is fine. Nor must
I be understood to imply that I might
not, upon a fuller consideration of all
the surrounding circumstances, agree
with them. But it is surely obvious to
the least careful observer that there
may be modifications of the conditions
which would render such a pronounce-
ment, to say the least of it, premature,
and, therefore, I am by no means pre-
pared to definitely commit myself to a
view which I might be required, upon a
further consideration of the conditions,
to depart from, to a greater or lesser
extent, and this the more so, &c., &c.,”
Re the recent death of Morris
Collman, the one-time lucky
pioneer of Bendigo quartz-mining,
and largest shareholder in the
Collmann and Tacchi mine, which
gave phenomenal yields in the
’7o’s. Collman, a German Jew by
race, was a thorough “white”
man. He gave his men the eight-
hours’ boon unasked, paid wages
for the 52 weeks in the year, and
(when he got homesick) set his
needy compatriots in the district
on their feet ere departing for the
Faderland. Home again, with his
fortune he dabbled in bushels —and
went under to the wheat fever.
He returned to Australia, without
his family, to dabble in quartz
7entures again, but Fortune had
disowned the brave, generous,
plucky, old-time pioneer. He
ended his days in Bendigo hos-
pital, and all he left behind in
worldly wealth was* a life-assurance
policy for £2s—but the cleanest
record of a life’s crushing that any
man and any employer of labor
could wish for.
Re the much-wanted Kenniff brothers.
The Bulletin is told that one Kenniff was edu-
cated in a N.S.W. college, and that it was
originally intended to send him to Ireland for
training as a priest. The other brother is also
well educated. They are superb bushmen, with
no end of sympathisers outside the police force—
and in it.
ECONOMISING BE THE CORONATION.
A SUGGESTION.
The Prune Minister of the Australian Common-
wealth Mr. Barton.
Mounted Escort ... ... ... Mr. Barton.
Contingenter Outfit, lent by Col. Price.
Troop-horse, lent by British Govt.
Flag display, decorations, &c. ... Mr. Barton.
According to a Southern N.S. W. paper,
an irate elector threatens to vote against the local
member at next election for breaking three out of
a dozen eggs he was carrying to said elector’s
daughter in Sydney. Hard to say which requires
sympathy most —the member with such a con-
stituent, or the constituency with such a member.
London Daily Chronicle, in giving a
friendly hint to Phil May (now in his 40th year)
to “conquer the strange hallucination that he
was born an actor, ” remarks :
Australians now get more fun out of his pictures in
Punch than other people, for he has a playful habit of
audaciously introducing prominent Antipodean person-
alities.
“This foundation-stone was laid to the
Glory of God, and the Salvation of the People, by
Commandant H. H. Booth, Sept. 2nd, 1901.
William Booth, General.” That is the inscription
which meets the eye of Mr. Herbert H. Booth,
sharebroker, general agent, and what not, as he
strolls along Albcrt-st. to the new Salvation Army
printing-works.
Young inan Fotheringham has just left
Vic. politics to take a decent job in Sydney with
regular hours and fewer bosses. His probable
successor is Trades Hall youngster Lemmon, a
beardless youth with an elaborate kiss-curl.
Lemmon’s doughtiest opponent is a barber who
has qualified for politics by shaving Premier
Peacock once a day.
Re the N.S.W. acting-judge system. If
Mr. Acting-Justice Pring, who now enters
on a third term of temporary Supreme
Court justiceship,. goes back to the Bar to
practise, as he will do if not permanently
appointed to the Bench, he may yet be called upon
to act as junior to Wise, K.C., Want, K.C., or
Pilcher, K.C., all of whom held briefs in the
Wadey-Mort’s Dock case, recently presided over
for 35 days by Mr. Pring.
Retired miller Sam. Riley, of Murchison
(Vic.), died the other day of diabetes, aged 45.
Deceased, known in his earlier years for his
immense strength, weighed about 40 stone; the
coffin was 7ft. long, 4ft. wide and 3ft. 6in. deep.
To convey the corpse to the cemetery the hearse
was dispensed with, being too small, and a large
farm waggon, painted black for the occasion, was
used, being drawn by a heavy draught horse. The
coffin had to be lowered to the grave by means of
heavy timber stages, close on 20 men assisting.
Little Vic. Governor Clarke has an extra-
ordinary trick of posing his chin, as though
troubled with an angry boil somewhere there-
abouts. He accentuates the habit at functions,
and was a source of much amusement to onlookers
at the opening of Parliament last week. Already
the disrespectful begin to call the unassuming
little Gov. ‘ ‘ Chinny ” Clarke.
Miss M. E. Ferguson, just appointed lady
sanitary inspector for Sydney City Council, is a
daughter of the father of Parramatta journalism,
old John Ferguson, of Cumberland Times. Miss
Ferguson has on several occasions brought out an
issue of the paper—doing all the work, journalistic
and mechanical. She was chosen out of 32 appli-
cants for the much-prized post.
The estate of Bishop Selwyn, before
N.S.W. Chief Judge in Equity the other day,
revives a notable name in the history of the South
Seas. The first Bishop Selwyn paved the way for
the civilising of the Melanesians, and although he
forsook Australasia and ended his days as Bishop
of Litchfield (Eng.), he left his son, Bishop John
R. Selwyn, to carry on the work. Both Bishops
left widows, that of Selwyn senior celebrating her
90th birthday not long ago,
Robert Caldwell, poor politi-
cian and worse verse-writer, who at
recent S.A. general elections was
shunted out of his long-held
Assembly seat Onkaparinga, broke
into lamentation the following week
in Mount Barker Courier —the
excuse for the outbreak being the
death of a worthy old lady resident
and voter. The impressive close:
For years she held a mother’s place
In my affection, and I knew
She took in all my woes and ways
A sympathetic interest, too.
But one by one our friends depart—
The worthiest leave us at the last ■
And I am weaker now in heart
To move against the stormy blast.
Our women well may mourn the day
When their brave sister ceased to be ;
For but for her, I truly say,
No franchise had they had from me.
So Caldwell gave S.A. female
suffrage ! Historians please note.
Vic. Premier Peacock’s recent
laughing “turn” at Sydney Palace
Theatre recalls a similar ebullition
when the Smiler was comparatively
new in politics. He was then Min-
ister of Education, and, perhaps to
reassure people at a time when
matters in the Shiels Cabinet were
all at sixes and sevens, went round
with a couple of colleagues to grin
through a variety show. The Laugh
was a Mt. Pelee eruption in those
days as compared with the feeble,
present-day cachinnation _of an
overweighted Treasurer, and Peacock let it go to
such an extent as to rile one of the comic men,
who wanted to know whether “that horse in the
dress-circle ” thought he was running the show.
The Duke of Grafton, who has just had his
chief English country-seat burnt, was a very
familiar figure in Adelaide 20 years ago, aA
Fitzroy, A.D.O. to Gov. Jervois. He was a typi-
cal Ouidaesque hero to look at, and very popular
with the ladies —none the less so for being under-
stood to be romantically unhappy in his marriage.
As a matter of fact, he had married a circus-rider,
and when he returned to England, he made a
desperate attempt to get rid of her. He was able
to prove that she was married before he met her,
but she calmly proceeded to show that her former
husband had a wife living all the time; there-
fore she was not properly married to him, and had
been free to accept Fitzroy. So Mrs. Fitzroy she
remained, and, if she is alive and has behaved
discreetly, she is presumably (in title, anyhow)
Duchess of Grafton to this very day.
Burgoyne, christened “ Old Logic,” who
is the oldest member of the S.A. Assembly, will
be 75 next Tuesday (June 10). He was Works
Minister with the Radical Cockburn Govt. 13
years ago, and the Cabinet was thrown out because
he would not ratify the agreement with the Silver-
ton Tram Co., which everyone—everyone who
doesn’t hold shares in it, that is—is now more than
sorry was ever completed. Burgoyne ran away
froni the Kingston Govt, in ’99 and received office
under Solomon, but he only retained it for a week
and since then has assumed the role of friend and
philosopher to the whole House. Burgoyne, with
a keen sense of his own administrative short-
comings, has, on more than one occasion, moved
to reduce the salaries of Ministers of the Crown
from £lOOO to £6OO a year !
A man with a history passed the Great
Divide in Melbourne lately, and the manner of
his death was as unaccountable as at least one
incident of his life. This was J. J. Hoogklimmer,
who, in ’B6, when but newly-married, went to the
beach at Frankston one day, took a bath and
disappeared, leaving his clothes and a camera on
the sand behind him. He was insured, and shortly
afterwards his wife applied for the money, but
the offices disputed his death. Nine months
later he turned up in Holland, his native place,
just as obscurely as he had disappeared, and told
a tale of having been carried to sea on an oar,
and picked up by an outgoing steamer. There-
after he seems to have taken his wife to Holland,
where she still lives, then returned to Melbourne
and resumed business pretty nearly where he left
off. T’other Sunday he was found dead in bed—
apparently suffocated by gas, of which the room
was full. There was a large fireplace in the room,
which was otherwise well ventilated, and the gas
was turned off, but the tap had been ioosened and
was leaking somewhat. Yet the post-mortem
proved he had been poisoned by prussic acid
vapor. Also, he had in January, and again in
March and April last, taken out accident insurance
policies for £3500 altogether (£2OOO against train
or tram), and he had left minute instructions about
his will and the whereabouts of his property. The
jury verdicted accidental death, but as there are
suicide clauses in the policies, the companies may
fight. Anyhow, it is all vague and indefinite and
occult; the only thing certain is that this time
the man himself is dead.


h
WEAK-SI6NTCP REAPERS^-
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing with comfort, whose distant vision is dull
and who suffer from persistent headaches or pains after close
application—you may rest assured that you are suffering from
Ageing or Impaired Vision, and Need Glasses. You
should visit us, and have your sight scientifically tested, and
be supplied with Glasses adapted to your individual case.
TO COUNTRY READERS who cannot visit us personally, we send, Post Free to any address, with full instruc-
tions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT. By its use
you can Test your own sight and determine for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you may need
Write for it to—
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Consulting Optician,
371 George St., Sydney,
And at 232 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, opposite Age Office.
next door to the A.J.S. BmV
King and George Streets.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.—ln the case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience ; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
“F.M.” : The one fatal mistake in all
Ministers’ and Commissioners’ plans for the relief
of Western N.S.W. is the assuming that in any
bad drought.it will be possible to fall back on the
East. The idea of entraining stock in millions is
madness. Spare pasture for one million could
not be rented in N.S.W. to-day for 10s. a head.
The idea of carrying out forage in sufficient
quantity to appreciably mitigate the effects of
even a single year of drought, is, if possible, madder
still. We. have lost 16,000,000 sheep in the
Western districts through the seven years just
past. What could we have done for them if
railway lines had run to every woolshed in the
West? A sheep will hardly keep alive on less
than 31bs. of chaff or hay a day. That amounts
to just about half-a-ton a year. It would cost
£8 a ton delivered now, and could never be
reckoned at less than £4. Take that lowest price
and the cost of feeding one million for one year
figures out £2,000,000 ? The West must stand on
its own resources or be abandoned. Those re-
sources are (1) the native bush, scrub grass, and
herbages, to be restored by artificial means over
hundreds of sq. miles, and thereafter wisely con-
served, (2) the cultivated growths on all irrigable
areas which may be harvested as ensilage or hay,
(3) and the water to be won and saved. The two
great enemies apart from drought are rabbits and
mortgages. The one great avoidable danger—
overstocking when the rain comes.
• * * *
From a stockman’s letter :
This is the worst year ever experienced on the Rich-
mond. The water-holes are lined with dead and dying
cattle. You can tell when you are coming to a hole by
the number of dead beasts lying about which have been
pulled out of the bog. In many places they have only a
mixture of mud and slimy liquid to drink ; they are dying
wholesale on the big stations. On Bonalbo they have
been cutting down oak-trees for the last six weeks to
keep the cattle alive, which has never been done before ;
while thousands of sheep from New England and Queens-
land stations are travelling about the district looking for
feed.
OBVIOUSLY IM-
POSSIBLE.
CANVASSER (who has put up at bush-shanty the
previous night): “I thought I asked you to
call me at seven this morning?"
SHANTY-kEEPER: “ Yer never give no name. I
couldn't call a blanky dog if I didn't knots
his blanky name."
“ Tonbur ” : It is impossible for the city
dweller to form an idea of the utter desolation and
misery wrought by the drought in Queensland.
East from Clermont to Aramac, across fiery sand-
hills on which the spinifex is burnt black ; north
to the Burdekin; south to the Dawson, and west to
Nebo and St. Lawrence, it is all the same—one long
stretch of withered wilderness. Miles of parched
desert, empty creeks and water-courses, shrivelled
scrub and stunted trees, under which famine-
stricken sheep and bullocks—grotesque, blear-
eyed, loony-looking beasts—stagger pathetically
while the hateful crow clamours in fiendish exul-
tation, and skeletons and scattered bones are to be
seen everywhere. The strings of motherless
calves following the pads out of the empty water-
holes tell their own tale. The stations are
deserted, except for a manager and a black boy or
so. All the Downs country is now a howling
wilderness. Lake Elphinstone, which should be
seven miles in circumference, has hardly any
water. Everyone is making for the coast and
northwards. At intervals you meet men in small
parties—grim, sullen, hopeless - looking men—
shouldering heavy swags and carrying large water-
bags and billies, some almost bootless in the
blistering sand, looking for a job which they have
no chance of getting. Or else a solitary horse-
man, leading a pack, eagerly asks, “Where is the
next grass ? Where’s the next water ? ” and passes
on. The town of Clermont is almost deserted.
The hotels have mostly been visited by the
bailiff, and the P.M. has issued hundreds of passes
and tickets for rations. Rockhampton, the capital,
so to speak, of Central Queensland, has some 500
unemployed, and a paternal Govt, gives a week’s
rations for a day’s work. There are 800 empty
houses there. From Longreach to the coast there
is nothing but stagnation; and Mt. Morgan, if
rain does not soon come, will have to shut right
down.
* * * *
Men among stock in the West notice that
the sheep are becoming more drought-resisting.
Some of them say that conditions that would kill
1000 ten or fifteen years ago are not killing 500
now. Possibly the men have as much to do with
this as the sheep, though ; they haven’t battled
with drought 10 or 15 years without learning a
bit. Thus at one time they killed the scrub that
they cut for the starving sheep, and often killed
the sheep, too; now, by more scientifically “pul-
ling” the foliage, they actually improve some of
the native scrub. And also, nowadays, they get
the sheep on to the scrub earlier than they used to,
• * * *
One big and plucky Riverine squatter,
famed for his merinos over Australia, is now com-
pelled by the drought to practically give away his
breeding ewes to try and save them from starva-
tion ; he merely stipulates the right of buying the
lambs at a fixed price after shearing.
• * * *
“ Hagram ” : The frequent poisoning of
cows by young sorghum and “ planters’ friend ”
begins to alarm South Coast (N.S.W.) dairymen.
T’other morning a cocky turned 20 cows out of
the milking-yard. They broke into a bit of sorg-
hum about a foot high, and in less than an hour
eight were laid out for the pigs (everything goes
to the pig). Another man got at his in time and
cured them by driving them at a run down a
steep hill, thus giving the liquid, which (so goes
the bucolic theory) accumulates in their mouths
and kills, a chance to run from them freely. Up
to date, that is the only known remedy. Horses
are proof against sorghum-poisoning, and—still
more remarkable —so are bulls.
The guile of the
Hindu hawker. Writes
“ 8.R.”: —
No wonder the Hindu
hawker is received where
the dog is sooled on to
the white ditto ; wherever
there are children—and
that’s almost everywhere
—the cunning Asiatic al-
ways comes with a pre-
sent— a pen’orth of sweets,
a ha’penny top for
“little missee” and the
“little boy.” This gene-
rosity, of course, wins
the mother’s heart, and
she buys something she
doesn’t want; so a little
business is gradually built
up. The white trash never
thinks of the kids ; so his
business is with the dog!
Apropos, was witness to a
business transaction be-
tween a cocky’s wifiT and
a Hindu hawker t’other
day; article under dis-
cussion an egg-beater, full
value 4d. Hindu asked
“two sheelin’.” Oockey’s
W. : “ Too much ; won’t
give it; give you eighteen-
pence.” Hindu (after little
consideration): “ All ri’,
missee, you buy, no have
you; you know too much,”
and the copper-hued curse
smiled alluringly. “Missee
Jone, you know, nex’
farm, she pay two sheelin’,
but she no know price,
no likee you, Missee.”
Mrs. Cocky was flattered,
won, and got a few more
“bargains.”
• •
From Cumberland
(N.S.W.) Argus :
Just before last Christmas,
at Kenthurst, a mammoth
red gum tree took fire at the top branches when the bush
conflagrations were raging, and, notwithstanding rain in
the meantime, has been burning ever since. On Wednes-
day night it was burning as brightly as ever, limb after
limb being gradually eaten off by the fire until it is now
within 15ft. of the butt. The trunk of the tree, notwith-
standing, is still sending out sturdy shoots.
• • • *
“ A.C.” : Re big Murray-cod. “ Edge-
Nevin ” (8., 19/4/’O2) is right about rivers flowing
out of Queensland, but some of the smaller
N.S.W. streams have “whoppers” too. Or the
Cudgegong this year, between Mudgee and
Burrendong, there are floating tons of dead cod,
some of which easily scale three figures. Cause
of death supposed to be the stagnant state of the
river. By the way, jew or catfish do nest. They
clear weeds from a gravelly spot and there spawn.
The jewfish then guards said spawn for two
months—generally January and February. Have
frequently caught “jews” by throwing a jag-
hook on to the nest. The fish picks up and re-
moves it (or any other foreign matter) from the
nest. Then it is simply a case of haul in the line
with fish attached.
• * » •
“ Yeppoon ” : Re par (8., 17/5/’O2) touch-
ing the tethering of young children during their
parents’ absence, I can not only bear out this
statement, but give one which goes further.
Tethered children are fortunate compared with
their brothers of remoter Western parts, who,
owing to the meanderings of the wild native dog’
are suspended mid-way and secured in a sheet from
the rafters of the hut, during the absence of the
mother-parent, whose energies are at times called
to the busy scene of “ grubbing” or “ breaking ”
an acre or two.
It must
be dreadful
to be a can-
didate in the
country in
S. Austra-
lia. They
hunt the
electors (say
1 per sq.
mile in the
populous
parts) in
fives and
sixes; and
the meet-
ings usually
take place
in some
pub.’s “as-
sem b 1 y
h a 11,” s o
that all the
candidates
may get
through,
and the
seven or
eight elec-
tors who
turn up may
scatter
themselves
to their
homes same
day. Every candidate is bound to listen to
every other candidate’s speech; and by the
end of the month over which the campaign
drags the poor, tortured brute knows all the
other fellow’s wheezes by heart—knows just
when he will talk about our great resources, knows
when he will put his finger-tips over his heart and
swear to get them a railway or perish in the
attempt. It’s worth all the poor little £2OO a
year.
* * • *
“D. 8.” : As a result of the drought out
west of Orange, N.S.W., it is now almost impos-
sible to get locally-grown beef or mutton. Many
storekeepers are meeting the meat-famine by get-
ting casked corned-beef from Sydney.
* * * •
“ Tweed River ” to The Bulletin :
In Queensland, the cattle-ticks, and sequent redwater,
are obliterating station cattle, working bullocks, bulls
and dairy cows ; with a decided preference for bulls and
valuable cows of heavy milking strain. Q. Govt, trucks
tick-infested cattle on the railways, and sends same
trucks, without disinfection, to the four winds of
Heaven. They now find they are not reducing the tick-
blasted areas. N.S. Wales, with most valuable, fast-
developing dairying districts right on the border, erected
a four barbed-wire fence from Point Danger inland. This
fence runs between the two pubs at Tweed Heads, which
represent the twin border cities of Ooolon and Ooolan-
gatta in N.S.W. and Q. respectively. The coach-horses
running through country lately sown with ticks between
Southport (Q.) and Tweed Heads are stopped at the
barbed-wire fence, groomed, and fed actually at the
wires, and fraternised with by hungry-bellied, wandering
mokes reaching through the wires for a smell of tucker
or a mutual scratch of mangy withers. If the four
barbed-wires won’t stop the ticks, the Govt, is under-
stood to contemplate further precautions.
* * » •, »
Clearing-work on the Mareeba-Atherton
railway (N.Q.) has been suspended owing to the
presence of some scrub abounding in “stinging-
tree.” Wherever a clearing is effected this
terrible scourge springs up again with marvellous
rapidity, and any clearing now done would have
to be repeated as the construction gang came
along. The .stinging-tree has a broad, heart-
shaped leaf covered with fluff, a touch of which
gives most intense pain ; its effects have been
known to remain for many months. Heat
relieves the pain and contact with water intensifies
it. The utmost care has to be taken by those
engaged in clearing the scrub. The hands are
gloved and the face covered with cheese-cloth; the
respiratory organs also need attention as the
fluffy dust is most injurious to the lungs.
A FOREIGNER.
“ I'm sorry to hear that you have pneumonia in
your camp, Denis."
“ Not here, yer Riverence. Oi guess he's wid the
Oitalians on the fiat.”
“ Baratt ” : JRe irrigation (“Mick,” B.
26/4/’O2). On the Flinders, where drought has
again got the upper hand, in many places where a
bore is on' a rise irrigation has been tried, with
good results. The wonder is that on places
now denuded of stock people do not let the bore-
water flow over the dams to make grass, instead of
letting it run away down drains and creeks. On
one property I lately saw 500 acres thus irrigated,
with results equal to those of a good wet season.
* * * *
“ Raupo ” : Re finding the cardinal points
on a cloudy day. I don’t know where
“ J.A.C.”(B. 26/4/’O2) hangs out his little bit of
washing, but in this country (Maoriland) there
are no shadows on a cloudy day, so that the watch
and pencil method mentioned (B. 26/4/’O2) would
not work.
PLAYMATES.
A little special interest in volcanoes prompts
Ernest Favenc, who knows all about the West
and North, to give S.M. Herald a little much-
needed information. But we are nearer Tophet
down South. Mt. Wingen (N.S.W.) is nothing—
a burning coal-seam producing results closely re-
sembling those of volcanic action—but in western
Victoria there are evidences of outbursts which
could not have been so very long ago. An old
crater on Mt. Blowhard (Ballarat) is only a puny
affair, but unmistakable. Two cousin Jacks
went down once to find bottom, but “a wamblin’
in the innards of her” scared them. Reginald
Murray, geological surveyor, followed, but he
didn’t like the hanging stuff above, and only made
one venture. Mt. Shadwell, 20 miles in from
Warrnambool, is a grass-grown hummock of
scoriae right on the surface. They tunnel out the
stuff for railway ballast and road-making—cinders
and boulders that do not seem to have been over-
long cool. And there are other local extinct vol-
canoes—such as Tower-hill. No record or tradi-
tion of any outbreak, but then it’s not 100 years
since these hills were first sighted by white men ;
and the blacks were killed off so quickly that they
took their traditions with them.
* • * *• *
“6x8”: If the Kenniff bushranffers
know their way about they have long ere this
joined the band of outlaws known up nor’-west as
“The Ragged Thirteen,” who are masters of all
they survey west of M’Kinley and the Gulf
country. The original 13 were union shearers
who got away from the police after the big ’9l Q.
shearers’ strike. Ben Bridge, the horse-duffer
and Normanton lock-up burner, is said to have
once been a member of the gang. Anyone wanted
by the police in the Far North makes for the
“Thirteen,” who seldom come further in than
Winton, and live by kangaroo-shooting and
occasional cattle-mustering. When meat-hungry
they shoot the handiest beef. The police are shy
of them, because police-stations are few and far
between in the North, and every member of the
Thirteen can ride and shoot to perfection. Some
members of the gang once visited a cattle-station
which was in charge of a new-chum bank-manager,
who refused to give them meat because “ haw—
he wouldn’t feed —haw —beggahs on horse-back.”
They thereupon shot a beast in the station-yard,
skinned it, and took what meat they wanted—all
before the manager’s eyes.
* • * •
“ W.M.1.” (Croydon, Q .): Re white ants
(B. 15/2/’O2). White ants do attaok living plants
and trees. I have had tree after tree eaten down
in my garden. They go up through . the heart of
the tree. Cut off their communication with the
earth and the ants die. Here in the Gulf they
attack almost every species of tree—ironwood,
quinine, box, gum, tea-tree; in fact, 999 out of
every 1000 trees in my immediate region are dead
from the ground up.
A party of about a dozen Hindus re-
cently entered a Brisbane bootmaker’s,
and when the attendant hurried up ex-
pecting a wholesale order for bluchers,
spokesman of the crowd asked for a pair
of bootlaces. When the (disgusted shop-
man produced the laces, they were handed
round the whole party for inspection before
the necessary 2d. was paid. Again, 11 of
these gentry trooped into the bar of a pub.
near Childers, and the bar-tender was
nearly paralysed when one of them, having
got a pint of beer, took a sip and passed
it on to the next one. That pint did ser-
vice for the whole crowd ! What a god-
send to business would be the further
influx of Ram-Jam-Sammee !
The Noogoora burr, a recently-introduced
weed-pest in N.S.W., is spreading fast in the rich
dairying districts of the north coast. On some of
the Richmond River flats it can be seen for miles
at a stretch, and bids fair to be the worst enemy
settlers there have to face. As it is not a noxious
weed within the meaning of the Act, the depart-
ment does nothing.
* • * »
In E. Riverina there is great mortality
amongst the ‘ ‘ domestic ” cats. The disease is
strange and unaccountable; the symptoms are
akin to phosphorus-poisoning, which it isn’t. On
one station near Junee writer has counted scores
dead, mostly around tanks and dams. The
malady apparently does not affect any other
animals. Plague ?
* « * •
“Bob”: Numerous farmers around Temora
(N.S.W.) are sowing headlands with oats all about
their'wheat crops. This is supposed to keep the
rabbits from destroying the wheat, bunny not
caring much for an oaten crop. All the same, if
the average bunny can be so simply fooled by a
chain or two of oaten crop, then present writer
will lose all faith in him as a pioneer and ex-
plorer !


The HANSARD Fountain Pen
(Author fiM n^ <lstaff >
Fine, Medium, or Broad Points. One Quality—The Best; One Price—The Lowest, 7/6 (Post Paid).
Barrel of every
Pen branded “ The Hansard.” ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTE.
LASSETTER & GO., Ltd., SYDNEY. HANSARD PEN CO.,
Sent to any address on receipt of
, Box 98, Q.P.0., SYDNEY.
price.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalassk and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE
Patents for Inventions.— Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.*
PEARL
RINGS
Of SYDNEY
Manufacture.
Five Choice Whole
Pearls, 42/-
WHY SYDNEY?
We design them in Sydney.
We make them in Hunter-street.
We set them in our Workshops.
We finish them to perfection.
It saves importing expenses.
It saves Customs Duties.
The Pearls are found off Australia.
The workmen are imported—but
now help to build up our Nation.
It saves buyers 50 per cent, off London Prices.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures.
Strictly Cash.
23 HUNTER STREET.
“ H.S.R.” : This
talk about the sterility
of Australians is mostly
bunkum. I can point
to 100 miles of river-
frontage whereon the
families will average at
least six, and where the
smallest will be found
amongst the imported
people. Eight is quite
a common number, and
10 and 12 are not too
rare —I know four fami-
lies in juxtaposition
which total 47 children.
The slow increase of
population is due to the
scarcity of marriages,
and to the fact that the
Australian has already
to emigrate in search
of a crust. Alter this
by legislation and the
Australian male and
female will do the rest.
[Quite wrong. Twenty
years ago, the census
showed that every 100
married couples in Aus-
tralasia had on an aver-
age 579 children. Now
they average only 426
children. Strange
things may be found on
100 miles of river-front-
age, but they don’t alter the general fact. —
Ed. B.]
• . . •
A S.A. farmer crossed the border into
N.S.W. under seven years ago and took up a
10,240-acre homestead lease. Since then each of
his six sons and two daughters has taken up a
similar lease—total 92,160 acres. And under the
new Western Lands Act the family reckons upon
getting another 180,000 acres at least!
* » * *
“Raupo”: “ How the old order changeth ”
in Maoriland ! Long ago the Pakeha, for a few
trade-mirrors and a rusty muzzle-loader, could
buy a nice, compact, little sheep-run from the
Maori. To-day the Pakeha, i.e., Dick Seddon,
sells, for a few mats, about 1600 acres of land
(belonging to the public) to the Wanganui Maoris.
Would like to know how many of the public even
saw those mats, and also if they are still in Maori-
land or on the way ’Ome ? Would also like to
know what those mats would be worth at ’Ome, if
they are worth 1600 acres of first-class land in
Maoriland ?
* * * *
Bane and antidote. On at least one
Riverine station foxes are being bred and turned
out on the property in the expectation that' their
destruction of rabbits will more than compensate
for their depredations on the “woo’lies.” Some
pastoralists, indeed, maintain that where rabbits
are plentiful foxes will do little harm to the sheep.
UTILITARIAN.
O’LOUGHLIN (full of grief and whisky): “[?] suppose yez knew the
good mahn?” (Sobs.)
SCOTTY: “ No-o-o, I canna ’ say I knew any of the family .”
O’L.: “ Thin phwat right hov yez in the mournin' coach?”
S.: “ Well, I've been vera poorly of late, and the dokthor told me to
take as much driving oxercise as I cuid, and this is the fourth
funeral I've been to the day.”
“R.W.M.”: What is wrong with (1)
Maori, t.e. native race; (2) Maoria, i.e their
country; (3) Maonan, t.e., white man born m
• * • *
The rainbow-trout (S. iridens) seems to be
getting firm hold in N.S.W. waters. In the Pros-
pect “ hatchery ” there are at present 750 trout,
which will be two years old in Sept, next, and
which it is intended to retain for further breeding
purposes. In the Bibbenluke River, Monaro dis-
trict, were recently taken with the rod six rain-
bow-trout, averaging nearly 31b., and a 3ilb. fish
of this variety was recently found dead in Prospect
reservoir. Tins specimen is to be seen, mouftted,
at the Fisheries B?part ra e„t, S y d„ey. _
At Fosterville (Vic.) the other day, a set-
tier carving a leg of mutton, came upon a key
embedded in the flesh near the bone. A distinct
impression of the key was visible on the bone
itself. The key is produced, but no solution.
THE LAST STRAW.
BUNNY BUMPS (to Mrs. Bumps): “ It's bad enough, pussy, to think
of the wire fences and the drought with our large family, but
this export-trade in rabbits—' that fairly breaks me up.”
“Ponga”: I don’t quite agree with
“Paka” (B. 10/8/’01) about the methods of dif-
ferent animals in raising themselves from the
ground. Pigs, for instance, although even-toed,
raise their fore-parts first.
* * * •
A farmer on the Southern N.S.W. railway
cleared £l5OO, this year, growing cabbages. He
chanced the crop in new land, was favored by
showers, met a scarce market, and _ scooped
the pool. Every farmer within a radius of 20
miles threatens to follow suit next year, and each
one will probably succeed in paying expenses.
The percentage of lucky men is small.
From a “ religious ” paper, the Southern
Ceoss (Yic.): —
The great sums paid to popular singers suggest one
somewhat painful comparison. The cost of the Simul-
taneous Mission now in progress is, roughly, £2500, less
than one-half the sum Miss Castles earns for a couple of
dozen songs. Now, in the Simultaneous Mission no less
than 214 churches are joined ; there are 50 missioners,
700 committee-men, 2000 personal workers; 16,800 home
prayer-meetings have been held, 50,000 people have been
attending the Mission services every night. When before
in the history of Australia has there been such an impres-
sive and even amazing concentration of religious forces
for a religious'end ! And yet the modest £2500 which
represents the money cost of this great enterprise has not
at the moment we write been fully contributed ; it is at
least £lOOO short I
The cheapness of talk probably accounts for the
state of affairs pictured herein !
Mayor Cohen, of
Adelaide, is credited
with having spent
£3OOO on his recent
ball which Lord Hope-
toun told him (or so
Cohen says) was the
most brilliant of its
kind he had ever seen.
At the last ball given
by Mr. Cohen as
Mayor (in 1891) Guy
Boothby, the novelist,
superintended the de-
corations in his capa-
city of private secre-
tary to the host.
A very tired young
man, charged with
continually supporting
verandah posts in
Bourke-street, Melb.,
was asked by the
Magistrate lately if he
had any means or a
billet. “ No,” he fool-
ishly answered, “I’m
waiting for the Govern-
ment to find me work.”
No magistrate could
lose such a chance of
making a really bril-
liant joke, so he was at
once told that the Go-
vernment had found
him a permanent job
at stone-breaking for
six months. If the
Erisoner’s funnyism
ad been differently
built, so that the Bench
could only work in a
bright retort by ac-
quitting him, he might
have got off. - The
accused who so mis-
manages things that
the court’s best witti-
cism would be spoilt
if it didn’t send him
to gaol, deserves to go
there. He doesn’t know
enough for this world.
“Wealsman’': Apropos “Why We Went”
(8., 17/5/’02.) and the statement therein that our
out-back Dusthole of Despair would have driven
our young men to enlist for military service under
the American or any other flag. Deplorably true,
as regards some of our young men. Writer
knows more than one young backblock Australian
o „ c
«, f , r f, ™ w ar-fever, struck
- ~ 10 VI „ 6 es trahan dust and
' 7 s mnntha F’i' ’’ ar, | ny ’ ® ne
,nB B J 9rXt Un g ’ wea /, led °j
drifted* back to Australia lle but
. f _ 1, , woik .due
SyK. - ‘Z
Zola’s characters, “I’ll defend the old soil of France
since j no longer ’ have the C()U to tm it” S
wifch R lot of 0 8 ur co hentingenterl
°
ANSWERS, to CORRESPONDENTS.
So notice willle taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Reader : Your argument is based on the state-
ment that all death statistics go by the percentage per
annum, therefore the concentration-camp statistics for
that particular month must have referred to the pro-
portion of deaths for the year—not the month. Well,
just look at such very common books as the “ Statis-
tician’s Report on the Vital Statistics of N.S.W.” and
“ Mulhall’s Dictionary of Statistics” and you will find that
death-percentages per month are published. Therefore
when the cable said the deaths for the month were at the
rate of 45 per 1000 there was no certainty that it didn’t
mean exactly what it said, even though you send along
your unsupported assertion to the contrary. But, the
matter being open to doubt, The Bulletin made no posi-
tive assertion, as you say it did J.M. : It’s this sort of
thing ; no reason why it should be printed ; no reason
why it shouldn’t be printed. So we don’t print it
G.G.: Sorry for you ; still, the fact that The Bulletin is
the most frequently stolen paper in Australia is some-
thing to be proud of H.M. : Argument not as con-
vincing as it might be. Why shouldn’t an atheist believe
in immortality—the immortality of matter, or of memory,
or of the human race—though he doesn’t believe in an
immortal soul ? As to Ingersoll’s use of the term “ divine,”
why shouldn’t an atheist use it ? It means, among other
things, “excellent in the highest degree”—see dic-
tionary W.H. : Many thanks P.G.T.: Well, as
long as the defunct was really hanging from the tree at
the height described, it doesn’t matter much whether he
“ swayed ” as the paper said, or didn’t sway as you say.
Perhaps he swayed part of the time, and just dangled the
rest of the time J.E.R. : All the material of a tragedy
is there, but it is told as dully as if it was a heap of ox-
hides Colonist: Regret can’t publish. The facts are
all right, but the literary style needs much repair
R.S. : Your poem is a “ have.” It starts off promising
strong tragedy, and winds up with weak comedy ; and
that’s not good business A.M. : Well, the Law Insti-
tute is supposed to investigate things a bit beforehand ;
in case it doesn’t there seems, to the lay mind, solid
foundation for an Equity action E.L.L. : Fear your
“unpublished M.S.” is likely to remain so ; to class Daley
as a “ Swinburnian,” or to dub him “obscure,” shows a
curious critical kink in you.... Jack Shay: You say
“bushies,” “coves,” “ blanky ” and “cripes” at odd
intervals, but that doesn’t make a poem... .Stone : This
is not ‘‘ a land of milk and honey,” far from it; and there
is a mighty good chance of many people going near to
starvation who vote now on the basis of that delusion
W.F.E. : We’re tired of the very name of Amy, and
of the Yellow people who say she squawks, and of the
Green people who say she sings like an angel The
Daffodil: Album verse about English sentiment, English
trees, English climate 1 We want strong verse about Aus-
tralian things H.F.W. : Merely pretty Muriel M. :
We never look at the “ politics ” or opinions of really
first-class verse, but, in choosing from a huge mass of
matter which doesn’t show supreme merit, naturally that
is accepted the opinion of which is most to our liking ;
and about prayers for rain, our views are Omar’s
E.B. : Your note on Gordon suggests a good article, but
you don’t make that article. Could you improve it?. .^.
Gelosco : The reason why it “ doesn’t get any further” is
that the N.S.W. Supreme Court smothered the useful
Inebriates Act in foolish regulations, which make it more
difficult to convict an inebriate of chronic drunkenness
than a lawyer of larceny as a bailee C.L.O. : You can
have Morant’s verses mailed .you from Bulletin office for
Is. Id. in stamps Klush (Burketown): You misunder-
stand our frequently-expressed opinions. We don’t
want a halo around “The Breaker.” His fate
was well-earned ; but there should have been others....
Kilripani: Cow and bank yarn very beautiful, but too
shocking for print. There are some cow habits
that are better left unsaid.... Democrat: Thanks
Bilby : We don’t feel inclined to condemn the Minister’s
action ; and a good bit of the dirt you tell about is the
fault of the men, not the bosses... .J.P. : “All Off” is,
well, “all off.” Val. S. : Treatment too fruity, and
treatment is everything in that sort of story... .Alone :
Political verse needs to be, above all things, neat....
M.S. : Compact and arti.-tic John R. : Verj' inferior
verse... .H.W.S. : Neither would suit the“B.”—though
the rhymed piece has a merit of its own... .Glenare : Im-
possible metre in places Cigarette: Not skilfully
enough treated.... Kelpie : Good verse, but hackneyed
erotics H.H.B. : Hardly point enough H.R. :
Rather shapeless and insignificant.... Sub :We are “at
liberty to publish it.” Thanks !... .The Record: We
cannot say... .Sphinx: May do C.W.P. : Neat enough,
but out of our line.... Albo : Some humor, but otherwise
unsuitable New Hand: Obviously very new!
C. : Has a rude kind of strength, but is too spasmo-
dic and incoherent Bracken : Has a distinctive
quality. Will consider E.F.N. : Good of its
kind. May have a chance W.J.B. : Not up
S. : Too thin. Agress : Imp ! You almost make us
laugh Lerli : “ Patriot” not a bad idea, but treatment
obscures it altogether : would need handling by a man
who knew the ropes of a big daily. “ Shadow ” is but a
shadow M. : The then British Government has long
been suspected of complicity in attempts to assassinate
Napoleon : but point has no present interest... .Native r
You don’t tell it with any brightness J.A.A. : Your
drunk yarn not picturesque enough Yarrum : Hasn’t
got any sand The Snob: Too heavy A.P.P. r
Verse not on mark J.H.S. (Eng.): Thanks; but we
don’t heap jam on our own plate Canopus : Many
thanks.. .R. A. : S’Maloolm moved from one “ Goath-
land ” into another. He carries the name with him to
each new place of residence. It’s in the family, or some-
thing. Anyway, the shiny Tory is said to have a house
in Yorkshire called Goathland... .Norah D. : Stamps
must always be sent with copy, not with any accompany-
ing letter... .Fossicker : Thanks... .Attang : (1) No fixed
rate —depends on quality. (2) We fit illustrations to
legends. (3) We endeavor to return rejected MS. sent
with stamped envelope, but accept no responsibility....
Gilrooney : For print J.F. : But we don’t know that
Mr. Treeve is dead, and we can’t take anyone’s mere
say-so E.P. : Well, it was written by a licensed sur-
veyor as a matter of personal experience, and we have yet
to meet an experienced bush-surveyor who is an absolute
fool. The average licensed surveyor is as hard-headed as
the average Presbyterian parson.... H.G. : What are you
giving us ! He is back in Melbourne, more of a conjuror
than ever Macrow : Burns, Whitman, and Byron are
the only English-writing Democratic poets of calibre,
anyhow John Carew : Not amiss ; may print
F.R. : “ Oration ”is poor stuff... .Maori : Feeble of touch.
....Geo. W. : Too lamely and loosely t01d.... A.H.T. :
Shorter item good, but hardly printable Sad J. : None
quite suitable... .A. 11. (M.L.): Oyster-yarn venerable;
others not good enough... .K. Squirt: Not up to mark.
.... J.L.B.W. : Hardly point enough.... Barcoo : Too
rhetorical and wordy.... Migro : Scarcely worth print.
Gabba : Useless libel-action hanging to that
Sandy D. : Great lack of skill... .Stanley P. : Graphic;
may use Djali : Not quite up Luke J. : Good
material, indifferently handled... .Albo : Too long and
loose-jointed Bokah : Not nearly good enough....
John Brown : Sentiment all right, but matter rather.
du11... .Bonyangs : Thanks Ponga : The name of the
Vic. town is “ Wangaratta,” not “ Whangarata,” and has
no connection with Maori Riverina : Neatly versed,
but climax too weak to redeem length Licensed S. :
Please claim for your matter as it appears Hamer:
Slidalong too reminiscent; Sun Ling unattractive
T. : “For J.” won’t do C.H.S. : The subject of
“Maud’s Lament” calls for much defter handling
Bluemetal: Not enough in it... .Wanderer : Would need
re-writing Gumleaf : Crude and clumsy Toko :
May possibly use Mary M. : They hardly suit us
D. : Good idea, in very wobbly verse... .Deeby : Too
long in the wind.... Ben Sun : “An Oath” may do—
others not R.A.K. : Both rather feeble Bullaman :
Strained and awkward Bob R. : “ Disillusioned,” will
consider.... Pauline E.: You have imagination ; but,
so far, greatly lack skill Macswell: Don’t care about
either Yarrum : Two under consideration
Grotsey : Quite wrong; the writer lives at Wandelegong
—is not, and never has been, in Bulletin office. Wrong
also as regards this paper’s alleged aversion to women-
contributors, of whom it has many.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
H.M.0.: Will serve as suggestion J. 8.8.: Un-
suitable .... Misery : Will d 0.... W.H. H.: Dachshund sub-
ject very far fetched H.M‘C. : May serve as sug-
gestion.... Dugald Mac.: Those “Illustrated Sayings”
off Bulletin track. Try something obviously Australian.
.... J.D. : Have already had that saplings-and-hobbles’
idea. The pre-historic-man domain is the sole property
of artist Gould Unavailable : Theo P. (Q.), W.W.S. (we
don’t print Freetrade advts.)
This letter reached The Bulletin last
week :
Have you seen this riddle before, and which is the
correct answer to it? Is it himself he is looking at?
“ Brothers and sisters have I none, but that man’s father
is my father’s son.” Who is he looking at? Things are
very quiet down here. I will send you some more if you
wish.
The above conundrum is very old, and it was never
worth 2d. when it was new. Yet Australia
apparently spends most of its spare time pondering
over it, which shows a tendency to' childish
things; and in failing to solve it, which shows
a lamentable flabbiness in the intellect. On a
steady average, The Bulletin receives one letter
per week from some person or other who
says that the old wheeze was sprung on a party of
full-grown citizens in the hut, or in the public-
house, and they were greatly surprised at it.
None of them had heard of anything so brilliant
before. Bill Dadd said it was his own portrait,
and Dick Simpson said it was his father’s, and
Mike Cooley said it was his son’s, and Samuel
Ferguson said it was perfectly wonderful. In the
argument that ensued, the slush-lamp was upset,
and the dog trodden upon, and Mike Cooley got a
black eye, and Sam Ferguson had half his ear
swallowed. Then, when Bill Dadd had emerged
from under the table and got the corned beef out
of his hair, they agreed to write to The Bulletin
asking for the real, true, genuine solution, and the
winner was to drink himself into the horrors at
the losers’ expense. Till the answer appeared
they agreed to keep the peace and sit on the edge
of the bunk in anxious expectancy, being quite
unable to get their proper rest, or enjoy their salt
horse, till they knew whether that man’s father
was his father’s son or not. The Bulletin is tired
of answering, but it is willing to offer a suggestion.
As a practical way of solving the problem, find
a man, named (say) Thomas Jones, who has no
brothers, and whose father, Bill Jones, and son,
Jack Jones, are both living and available. Let
Thomas Jones plant his father and son before
him, and recite the conundrum in a thoughtful
voice in the presence of witnesses, and see how it
works out. If there is reasonable intelligence in
the audience, the answer will be discovered ; if
there isn’t, Samuel Ferguson will probably lose
the rest of his ear in the ensuing debate. And if
the dog is a well-advised animal, he will run his
hardest for the door as soon as the subject starts.
At all events, if present writer was the dog that’s
what he would do.
THE LATE DR. PATERSON.
Photo, by Herbst, Oxƒordst., Sydney.
Many kindly things are told of
that excellent scholar, the late Dr. Paterson,
of Sydney. For the plucked birds of the
University he had a feeling akin to love;
and he knew when to make a judicious
present of class books. He had one of those
minds that could learn anything, the capacity
lasting through old age. Still, he cherished no
speciality. He was an acute reasoner in equity,
but did not care for law laurels. He could
write verse and prose respectably in half-a-
dozen languages, but thought nothing of the
accomplishments. His work in the old Punch,
of Harold W. H. Stephen’s day, was always
graceful, but never seemed to have any robust
purpose in life. Probably he was most in his
element while acting as Professor of Classics in
Sydney University. He was sounded on two
occasions for District Court Judgeships, but was
apparently so little interested in the appointments
that he forgot to denote his pleasure until the
offices were filled.


FROZEN-OUT: Design for a Historical
Frieze. Observe a. future plain brown
Governor -General, with dog - outrider,
approaching the horizon.


THE COUNTRY SANATORIUM FOR
CONSUMPTIVES’ QUESTION.
“ The scenery in N.S. W is
impressive and awe-in-
spiring,” says a guide-
book. All the same,
the traveller has> to
take the guidfeA
book's word fop ft
entirely.
THE SYDNEY WATER FAMINE (Understudy}.
Pumping has begun at Prospect dam and the outlook is more
'cheerful The water in the dam now comes quite up to Jake Garrard’s
aplrlpß-
London, Tuesday Afternoon.—A committee lies been formed
New York to present the German Emperor with a statue of
George Washington.
HohZnzollern, Junior [translatedfrom the German] ; "Who was
George Washington, pa 1”
Hohenzollern, Senior : “ A great and good
American war-lord, my child, who never
told a lie 1 ”
_ Hohen. Jr. : « What S— never 1
-And an American l”
fern, if i ■were you, I wouldn’t use any
ware water than is absolutely necessary.
"V «PW^'v^S 0 ®
> <s>°
.0* Ai . " j|S>-
■xO (il) 1 N _ V
&
A masked man, with feet muffled in
sheepskins, and armed with a Winchester
riiie, bailed up the mail coach from Wil-
c&nnia to Menindie on Friday
last near Hay.
The robber opened the mail
bags and cut through the
registered letters, telling the
driver that he expected to
find the monthly remit-
tance of old-age pensions.
He was disappointed, A
however, as the
contained"'nothing of
Dsra: «Why, wherever can yen have been livin’ that ver didn’t
fenow the Pension Fund was bankrupt long ago 1 ”
CARTOONLETS.


A. SAUNDERS
WATCHES, JEWELLERY. AND SILVERPLATE AT FREETRADE PRICES.
SAVE 25 TO 50 PER CENT. SHOWROOMS: 815 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
A. SAUNDERS.
EATII BRUSH, Pure Silver, in Silk-lined Case, 30s.
EREETRADE PRICES. NO ADVANCE.
A. SAUNDEKS’ EREETRADE PRICES.
NUT CRACKERS and PICKS in Silk-lined Case,
Chased and Silver-plated, 15s 6d and 20s.
VERY USEFUL.
A. SAUNDERS.
SOAP BOX, Silver-plated, Nicely Chased and
Embossed, 12s t'd.
FREETRADE PRICES.
A. SAUNDERS’ FREETRADE PRICES
LADIES’ FRIEND, PureSilver-monnted,
in Silk-lined Case, 18s 6d. Smaller; 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CLOTH BRUSH, Pure Solid Silver-
mounted, 15s 6d, 17s 6d.
COMBS, Pure Solid Silver-mounted, Beal
Tortoiseshell, 20s ; Imitation Shell, 10s 6d ;
Similar, 5s 6d and 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDEBS.
Manicure Set, Pure Solid Silver-mounted, 20s.
Smaller, 12s 6d.
NO ADVANCE IN PBICE.
Pure Solid Silver Chased PHOTO
FRAMES in every Style and Shape.
10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, and 255.
A very acceptable present.
FRKETRADE PRICES.
A. SAUNDERS.
MIRROR, Solid Silver-mounted,
Heart-shaped, Velvet-lined, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 15s 6d, 20s, 80s, £2.
FREETRADE PRICES.
Pure Silver Hair BRUSH,
Best Bristle, 15s 6d.
You save money buying
from A. SAUNDERS.
1
I
A. SATTN 1)1 RS.
Ladies’ Silver-mounted TV aJLLET CARD
CASE, 20s. Similar style, 15s.
A. SAUNDEBS.
Gent.’s Hair Brush, Pure Silver, Best
Bristles, 12s 6d. Splendid Value.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHILD’S CUPS,Pure Solid Silver,
in Silk Case, 80s, 355, £2, £2 10s;
Silver Electro-plated, 12s 6d, 15s,
20s. ‘Without Case, 7s 6d, 8s 6d,105.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ PURSES, Pure Silver-mounted, Lizard
Skin, 20s, 255. Other stales, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
Our Stock of Pirst Purses is large and Assorted.
A. SAUNDERS.
FREETRADE PRICES. SAVE 25 to 50 PER CENT.
Solid Silver 4 o’clock TEA SPOONS, in Case, 15s, 20s; with
TONGS, 20s, 255, 30s, £2 ; Silver Electro-plated, with
TONGS, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Or Cake KNIVES or PORKS, 20s, 255, 80s. Most Useful
for Afternoon Cake. All in Silk-lined Cases. Post Free.
THE FEDERAL TARIFF.
*-s*Bl®*
THIS I HAYE ANTICIPATED.
MY CASH PURCHASES have been Enormous,
and I am in a position to sell at EREETRADE
PRICES. £32,000 worth of
WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELLERY, and
SILVERPLATE
to choose from. It will pay, and save you 25 to 50 per
cent. This is a consideration.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Ay,,.,../] ~ THE WELL KNOWN JEWELLER
. OaiIIHUJIIS, axd SILVERSMITH.
815 and 817 GEORGE-STREET,
Nearly Opposite Railway Station.
ms
sgSg=
atSiaßHy
UHiiiliyiiihl! ioiliiiiilHliiiiiliililiPi!
A. SAUNDERS.
FREETRADE PRICES. SAVE YOU 25 to 50 PER CENT.
Full-sized TOILET SET, Beautifully Chased, and Ornamented, in three patterns, “ Watteau as
above, “ Cherub,” and “ Floride,” Chased and Embossed Designs, Containing two Hair Brushes,
Hat and Cloth Brush, Mirror, Shoe Hook and Lift, £l2 10s. A most acceptable Ladies’ present.
> ;V, S*v
- 1 * ,
mm
m
W>%r
mgrm</'.
mm):
cBMIIBK J
mrn&mi
W / »'
m
mm
FREETRADE PRICES. SATE YOU 25 to 50 PER CENT.
A. SAUNDERS’ Newest Style in Pure Solid Silver Chased and Embossed,
4 o’clock Sugar Cream SPOON and TONGS, in Silk-lined Case. We
Stock three patterns similar to Illustration, £4 10s. A useful present.
A. SAUNDERS’ Pure Silver Pencils. We stock in every style, ss, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s
Gold, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s, £2. Shall be pleased to send post free anywhere.
EREETRADE PRICES. NO ADVANCE.
SEND YOUR ORDERS TO A. SAUNDERS.
I DO NOT INTEND TO ADVANCE MY PRICES.
FREETRADE PRICES-NO ADVANCE.
ilium i i v =»?
,'fej
P i
irr—I‘"' 1 ‘"'
ißtfia
NOW IS THE TIME TO BUY ALL ARTICLES
AT FREETRADE PRICES.
A. SAUNDERS’ CAKE SERVER, Pure Solid Silver, Pearl Handle, in three styles, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
The very latest London style.
Call and See onr Jewellery Exhibition—A Splendid Display; or send for onr 1901 Complete Illustrated Book, Post Free anywhere,
\fSt
M
Pure Silver-
mounted
HAIE PIN
lIOTj Dlilv. 5s
A. SAUNDERS.
PUFF BOX, Pure Solid Silver, Pretty and
Ornamental, 255.
Silver-plated on White Metal, 17s 6d.
Silver Tops, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
NO ADVANCE. FREETRADE PRICES.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, Pure Silver,
best Bristles, “Cherub” Design,
18s 6d. Other styles, 20s, 255,
30s, £2. Send for Pattern
FREETBADE BOOK.
Pure Solid Silver Badger
Hair SHAVING
BRUSH, 12s 6d. Other
styles, 15s and 20s.
A Nice Present.
W3*.
A. SAUNDERS.
Smelling Salts BOTTLE, Pure Silver,
255. Other styles, Silver Top, 2s 6d,
ss, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s
Bj
A. SAUNDERS’ EREETRADE PRICES.
Dessert KNIVES and FORKS, Silver-plated, Nicely
Chased, £2 15s. 12 Pairs, £4 10s, £5, £5 10s.
A Useful Present.
A. SAUNDERS’ FREETRADE PRICES.
Two Peppers, Mustard, Pure Solid Silver, Beautifully
sed and Finished, in Case, £2 10s.
m
M
a?
tUh
A. SAUNDERS. NO ADVANCE.
Jam SPOON and Butter KNIFE, Pure Solid
Silver, in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d.
Gent.’s “ COMPANION,” or Letter Boole,
Pure Silver Mounted, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. 255,
n ■
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Solid Silver-mounted PEPPERS and
SALTS, in 3 sizes, 4s 6d, 6s 6i, 7s 6a.
FREETRADE PRICES.
SAVE 25 to 50 PER CENT.
STM
STS
Ladies’ TOILET TABLE, Pure Solid Silver Pin TRAY, Artistically Chased
and Ornamented, 10s 6d. We stock in large quantity.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted KNIFE RESTS, in
Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDEES'
EREETIIADE PRICES.
DflffijgNNHuSe MS
bit
A. SATIN DERS’
FREETRAIJE PRICES.
THIMBLES, Silver Steel-
lined, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALTS, Pure Silver-mounted, White Cut Glass,
in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
SAVE 25 to 50
PER CENT.
LEADING ART JEWELLER,
SAVE 25 to 50
PER CENT.
815 & 817 GEORGE-STREET,
Nearly Opposite
Bailway Station,
SYDNEY.


CEREBOS
TABLE SALT
The Silent ....
Constitution Builder.
%
From Grocers and Stores. Wholesale Agents -.—Harrison <£ Attwood, Sydney.
Castro’s Last Sacrament
By ALBERT DORRINGTON.
4s 6d.
SOLID SILVER LEVER
Price,
21/-
Posfc Free
in Australia.
SOLID SILVER DOUBLE-CASE, LADIES’ or
GENTLEMEN’S SIZES. Jewelled in all move-
ments. Kept in order FREE for two years,
unless unfairly used.
MONEY RETURNED IF WATCH SHOULD
NOT PROVE SATISFACTORY.
L. I. FLEGELTAUB,
Watchmaker & Jeweller,
96 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Price,
21/-
Post Free
h
“PRIMUS”
Kerosene
Room Warmer
with Asbestos Heat Radiator.
PRICES, WITHOUT STOVE:
Made of Sheet Steel, 15s. each.
Made of Sheet Brass, 255. each.
If sent by Post 1/6 extra.
Brandt Bros.,
236 Pitt St., Sydney, and
422 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
ĥ
Of d
be *t r
Allan's
Australian music Books
s e c
o°
yS
%
W.
Sold by aQ Mmla Sellers in Australasia
Allan a Co. pt*. 276-278 collins mslbourns
Established 1840*
For hhii
Good quality Fuse, in cases of 500 coils, 4jd. coil
Roofing Felt, 75ft. x 32in., Bs. per roll.
500 tons Bolts and Nuts, up to 30in. long.
Black Galvafiised Steam Pipe, up to Bin. dia.
Octagon Steel, lin. dia., £2O per ton.
Bullock, Leading, Drag, Back Chains, 2d. lb.
Good Hand Pumps, 6s. ea. ; Haines, Is. 6d. pair.
Grindstones, 12in. to 20in., 2s. each.
Harwood’s French Polish, ss. gallon.
Mixed Paints, in tins, from 31b.
Damaged (slightly) Wire Nails, 9s. cwt.
Cooking Ranges, 36in. dia., 30s. each.
Black Paint, 20s. cwt.
Marine Paint and Priming, 20s. cwt.
One of the Largest Stocks of Ironmonger*
in Australia.
John Macintosh & Sons,
Wholesale & Retail
IRONMONGERS, IMPORTERS, BUILDERS,
ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS, BLACKSMITHS, CABINET
MAKERS, and GENERAL IRONMONGERY,
307, 321, 323, 325 PITT STREET,
Sydney, N.S.W,
The Bushveldt Buccaneers.
As a preface, The Bulletin wishes to repeat that
it has no quarrel with British authority for
having shot Morant and Handcock, ex-Australian
citizens and officers of the Bush veldt Carbineers,
proved guilty of having murdered, in cold blood,
Boer prisoners. The men stated that what they did
was “ the usual thing ” ; but that did not make it
aright thing. They pleaded that they “acted
under orders” ; but that only puts them in the
position of being hangmen who hanged on very poor
authority. There could be no decently-grounded
sympathy with the men who massacred unarmed,
helpless captives, even if they had had the written
orders of Ketchener himself countersigned
by Chamberlain. So, as to the death of the two
men, our opinion is unchanged from that expressed
when less was known than is now of the circum-
stances ; if ever men deserved execution, they did.
But later, and more trustworthy, information m
regard to the incidents surrounding the British
campaign against the Boers in the year 1901, par-
ticularly in the “ out ’’-districts, more than sug-
gests that Morant and Handcock were killed,
not for murdering Boers, but on a charge
of murdering missionary Hesse—then supposed to
be a German citizen —a charge on which they
were acquitted, and of which it is, therefore,
reasonable to suppose that they were guiltless:
later information, further, more than suggests
that there were very many other officers, English
and Canadian,. who were guilty of just as cold-
blooded atrocities as the Australian officers
charged, but who were either not brought to trial,
or “ honorably acquitted ” after evidence precisely
on all fours with that,which was sufficient to con-
demn Australians.
• « * *
As to the Hesse question, it has been dis-
covered now, somewhat late in the day, that he
was not a German, but a British, subject. But at
the time of his death, by shooting, when the Bush-
veldt Carbineers had charge of the Spelonken dis-
trict of Northern Transvaal, it was generally
believed that he was a German (he was in the service
of a German missionary society), and an account
of the affair was sent to Germany. The British
authorities have manfully lied on this point, deny-
ing strenuously that there was any interference,
or even knowledge, on the part of Germany re
the Pietersburg district atrocities. But, as far
back as January 13, Baron Yon Richthofen, Ger-
man Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, stated
in the Reichstag -
I have been informed of the following case : A mission-
ary named Hesse, belonging, I believe, to a Berlin
mission, was murdered, apparently by soldiers of the
British Army. The German Consul immediately placed
himself in communication with the British military
authorities, who instituted a most searching inquiry into
the matter.
* » * •
So the Hesse incident was known in Germany ;
was the subject of German representations to the
British authorities ; and, though Hesse proved not
to be a German subject after all, it seems reason-
able to suppose that it was the first representations
of Germany, and the publicity given on thecontinent
to the case, which induced Britain to take such
action against Morant and Handcock as was not
taken against other murderers of Boer prisoners.
It is the duty of the*Australian Government, since
Australian citizens are affected in this matter, to
demand the production of the papers in regard to
those German representations ; whether they were
conveyed to Lord Kitchener, and with what cover-
ing comment. On this point Major J. F. Thomas,
well known as a citizen of In verell, N.S.W., but
now in S’Africa, who acted as counsel to the
accused Australian officers writes (in a letter
under date Feb. 27): —
The order for the execution was signed yesterday some-
time, and Lord Kitchener immediately left town and
could not be approached. There was no time to do any.
thing, but directly I heard the decision I went to General
Kelly (A.A.G.) and begged and entreated him to ask Lord
Kitchener to defer the execution to enable me to cable to
England to the King on behalf of the Australian people
for mercy ; but he was obdurate, and said the order came
from England, and practically said grave political trouble
had been roused (apparently over the Hesse murder in
particular). I begged especially for Handcock, who was
merely present as a Vet. Lieutenant when Morant ordered
the Boers to be shot for outrages. I pleaded his want of
education and military knowledge, and all that I could
plead, but of no avail. Poor Handcock was right when
he wrote two months or more ago : “ Our graves were
dug before we left Spelonken.” They were dug ; I see it
all clearly now, and why. I know what I cannot write in
this accursed military-ridden country.
Thus, direct proof exists that, despite British
authoritative disclaimers, the German Govern-
ment did know the facts, and made representations
with regard to the Bush veldt Carbineers; and there
is strong evidence to bear out the allegation that
those representations had material weight in de-
ciding the issue against Morant and Handcock.
* * » •
As to the plea of custom put forward by the
accused at the Pietersburg court-martial, it should
not, in The Bulletin’s opinion, have any value as
an argument against their punishment, but
it would be of some very great moment as an
argument that other offenders should be
brought to trial. If, as alleged, there
were secret orders for the shooting of
Boer prisoners, or the impression was allowed
to go unchecked that such orders existed, and
murders of unarmed men were of frequent occur-
rence, it seems to have been an invidious dis-
tinction (well worthy of inquiry by an Australian
Government) which was exercised against the
Australian officers executed. On this point the
report of the court-martials, as given by
“Reuter,” a report which we have checked by
another, and found to be correct, throws valuable
light. Some extracts:
Sergeant S. Robertson, sworn, deposed . . . Captain
Hunt had previously told witness that he had direct
orders that no prisoners were to be taken. On one
occasion Captain Hunt abused witness for bringing in
three prisoners against orders.
Civil-Surgeon Johnson (sworn) deposed that he had
heard Hunt reprimand Morant for bringing in prisoners.
Lieutenant Hamman (sworn) deposed that, when he
was a trooper in the Queensland Mounted Infantry, on
one occasion, at Bronkhorst Spruit, in 1900, his squadron
took some prisoners, and was reprimanded by Colonel
Craddock for taking them.
Sergeant Walter Ashton (sworn) deposed to Brabant s
Horse receiving orders to take no prisoners, in conse-
quence of specific acts of treachery on the part of the
goers
The Judge-Advocate objected to such evidence as irrele-
Va Lieutenant Colin Philp (sworn) stated the Queensland
Mounted Infantry were in disgrace on one oceason for
brino-ino- in prisoners caught sn ping. Boers caught-
breaking the customs of war were shot summarily. In-
structions were published in the orders in Colonel Gai
rett’s column that Boers caught in khaki were to be shot.
Captain King, of the Canadian Scouts (sworn) stated
in evidence that Boers guilty of wearing British uniforms,
train-wrecking, or murdering soldiers, were dealt with
summarily. .
There is here sworn evidence from six different wit-
nesses (the majority of them unconnected with
the Bush veldt Carbineers) testifying to operations
in various parts of the country, with various corps,
«U alleging that the summary shooting of Boers was
part of the war-game as played by the British
THE SCAPEGOAT.
“And the Goat shall hear
upon him all their in-
dignities into a land
not inhabited, and he
shall let go the Goat in the wilderness."
forces; that officers bringing in prisoners were
reprimanded, and that on various pretexts, or with-
out pretexts, Boers were shot after being taken.
It is, perhaps, needless to remark that “train-
wrecking” is an absolutely legal and regular mode
of warfare prescribed in the British Army
books, and that wearing kharki is no more
an offence on the part of a Boer than of
a British soldier. These six witnesses could have
been reinforced (we are reliably informed) by 60
others if the trial had been at Pretoria, not
Pietersburg. The latter is only a small town with
a small garrison, but even there were found six
witnesses to swear that the murder of Boers was
usual, to swear it though they were warned by the
court of the danger to themselves of giving
such evidence. One of the witnesses, it will
be noted, was the son of the present Queens-
land Premier. The. position then seems to
be that, among very many murderers of Boers,
three Australians have been singled out—two for
execution, one for life imprisonment—as scape-
goats for all. Is Australia willing that that
position should stand ? If so, it is plain that in
future wars Australian contingents will have an-
other valuable function. They can be not only shot
by the enemy, but also shot by their allies when
need of placating a foreign power arises; and
when our contingents go to war side by side with
the Japs, there will probably be need for a good
deal of placating.
When the average farming person is told
of such progressive ideas as the Referendum and
the Initiative he holds up his hands in horror and
shudders at such “Socialistic legislation.” Yet
these two levers would have given the Kyabram
farmers —now tramping round Victoria to try and
get a poor half-ounce of retrenchment —the very
power they want, to force Parliament to move in
the desired direction, at one-tenth of the effort
and a hundredth pare of the cost. And then there
must have been a visible result—Yea or Nay.
Now there is no guarantee of any result what-
ever, beyond the recurrence of Peacock’s
laugh.
The large edition of “ Harry Morant : His
’Ventures and Verses ” is selling very rapidly.
Wholesale from Edwards, Dunlop and Co.,
Sydney. Single copy mailed from Bulletin-
for Is. Id. stamps of any State.
SHAKESPEARIAN THERAPEUTICS.—
If anything can “ minister unto a mind diseased ”
it is assuredly Hunyadi Janos, which will “cleanse
the stuff’d bosom of the perilous stuff which
weighs upon the heart.” It is an arsenal of
therapeutics, being speedy, sure, and gentle.*
If the dream of a Melbourne inventor is
realised, there will shortly be a revolution in
leather manufacture. He has turned his attention
to utilising the thick massses of kelp found all
along the rocky Vic. coasts, and tans it into a
material which, he believes, will be more durable
for use for boot-uppers, machinery-belting, &c.,
than the ordinary beast-hide leather, besides being
infinitely cheaper. He is lodging an application
for the right to collect kelp along the unfre-
quented shores, and is understood to have enlisted
the interest of moneyed men to exploit the idea.
When Queen Vic-
toria died, over 7000
addresses of condolence
were received inside
three days, and of course
that was before the im-
mense squad began to
arrive from remote parts.
The King did not see
nor even hear of more
than 70 of these—proba-
bly not nearly 70. They
were arriving night and
day at the rate of nearly
two a minute, and no
King wants, in addition
to his regular work, to
read two tearful grovels
every minute. Nobody
saw or heard of the bulk
of them except the clerk
who Wrote the perfunc-
tory acknowledgment
and threw the document
away. If the municipal
councillors and Fitzgib-
bons and such like would
understand that the tele-
grams and addresses of
grovel that they send to
the King haven’t one
chance in 1000 of ever
reaching him much of the
taxpayers’
money
might be
saved.
“G. 8.”
writes :
Over - work
nas delayed my
rtply to “ Bob R.”
Accusations concern-
ing “ subterfuges and
half truths ” come with
recoiling effect from his pen, for all his statements,
either wittingly or unwittingly, are either subterfuges or
untruths. For instance, he says : “We know the mem-
bership fee (A.W.U.) is 15s. plus ss. for the Worker,
which evfery member must subscribe to.” I repeat that
the A.W.U. annual subscription is now 15s. for shearers
and 10s. for shed-hands, and that each member is entitled
to a copy of the Worker, post-free, for one or other of these
sums (see Rule 6). The Worker subscription has always
been included in the subscription. Indeed, it is utterly
ridiculous to suppose—as “ Bob R.” professes to do—that,
having sold a man a ticket of membership for either 15s.
or 10s., he could then be told his membership was con-
ditional on the payment of an extra ss. for the Worker.
As “ Boi) R.” seems hard to convince, I will bet him any
sum from £1 to £lOO that this statement is neither
“half-truth” nor a “subterfuge.” “Bob R.,” who
so magniloquently speaks as “We,” also states that:
“We (meaning members of the A.W.U.) don’t
fix the salary of any official.” Dealing first with
“Bob R.’s” assumption of A.W.U. membership, I will
bet him a tidy sum that he can’t give me the number of
his ticket for 19)0-1 or 1901-2, with the names of his
Branch and the seller of his ticket. He has bluffed quiie
enough on the subject. For his information let me state
that, under Rules 33 (to 40, all A.W.U. official positions
are held subject to an annual vote of members, and that
salaries, at the instigation of any member, are then also
subject to alteration. In answer to “Bob R.’s ” first ques-
tion, let me say that, if an A.W.U. member, he would know
that delegates to the late conference were fully instructed
by the motions forwarded by Branches and Sheds, and
that, therefore, a plebiscite was not necessary. In answer
to his other question, all Unionists know that, apart
from strikes—our last resource—funds are needed for
organising shearers, shed-hands, navvies, and other bush-
workers ; to maintain the central and branch offices j for
the defence of members; for the succour of unfortunates ;
for political purposes ; for newspaper sustenance and
development; and now also for the cost of Arbitration
proceedings. It is only bogus unions which can afford to
hire expensive offices and keep officials travelling the
length and breadth of Queensland, New South Wales,
Victoria, South Australia and the Domain on an annual
subscription of 2s. 6d., while their Rule 17 states that :
“No fee or salary shall be paid to any official in respect
of services to the Union.” By the way, the Worker will
soon have to pay postage in this State as it has always
done in Victoria and South Australia.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N. S. Wales : Sayers,
Allport and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
The number of people wearing a steel ring is
really surprising, and the question is : is it faith, or do
the rings actually relieve rheumatism ? The manager of
the Modern Art Jewellery Co., 187 Pitt-street, says they
are selling large quantities of them and receive
most satisfactory reports, many wearers of them return-
ing to buy others to give to friends. The price of the
combined metal ring (steel, zinc, and copper,) is only
3s. 6d. and to those suffering from rheumatism we would
say—try it.*
The system of electrical and medical treatment
of disease, as practiced by many of the leading physicians
of Europe to-dav, is fast arresting the attention of the
local medical faculty. In sciatic affections and nervous
disorders arising from structural changes in the great
nerve centres, causing paralysis in various forms, nerve
derangements, palpitation, acute nervousness, insomnia,
or rheumatic affections, the treatment involved in the
judicious application of electricity and medicine effects
amazing results. The consulting staff of specialists of the
Freeman and Wallace Electro-Medical and Surgical
Institute, cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney, 1
daily receive magnificent testimonies from sufferers in all ,
grades of life cured from long-standing diseases through
this new curative system, which is their speciality. The
firm’s advt. appears in this issue.*


A FREE VETER!WARY BOOK.
A most useful V eter inary Book is attached
to every bottle of Condy’s Fluid. * This Book
contains instructions for curing most of the
ailments and accidents affecting Horses,
Dogs, Sheep, Cattle and Poultry.
In this Book eminent Veterinary Sur-
geons recommend Condy’s Fluid as a
certain cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
Broken Knees, Grease, Thrush and
Cracked Heels in Horses. —Scab, Foot
Hot, Fly, etc., in Sheep.—Hoove, Foul in
the Foot, Wounds and Sores in Cattle.
Condos Fluid is made by Condy &
Mitchell, Ltd., of 65, Goswell Road,
London, England, and is sold by all
Chemists and Stores. Beware of Colonial
Substitutes. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
ĥ
Q-O TO HELL-
IQOLANT) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
HATS.
HATS.
HATS
BRISBA.KTE
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made .Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted t>y
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
K-PT" Sales Held at the Auction Itooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
Some of our women coronation-visitors
don’t intend to Coronate at all. Their objective
is Paris, their intention to interview skin special-
ists and hair-raisers. Probably they are ignorant
that Miss Eva Braham, of the Equitable Buildings.
Sydney, is skilled in hair and skin treatment by
the best modern methods. Hair-work, hair-dress-
ing and electrolysis are also her specialties.*
ħ
SIMPSON’S JUMP-SEAT SULKIES.
Good Work.
Lowest Price.
Cash Only,
SIDNEY SIMPSON, Coachbuilder, 73 KING ST., NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
! lie Victorian tobacco expert who visited
Queensland lately discovered that “the whole
tobacoo crop is grown by Chinese on the share
system the other sharers being big financial
companies, Suoh faots disclose the true inward-
ness of the colored labor movement.
London Times gives space to an appeal for
tlie codification of English laws, and holds up
Griffith's Queensland performance as an example
to go by.. But Higinbotham’s was the only codi-
fication in Australia with genuine merits. The
Queensland and N. S. W efforts were mere cata-
loguing, and in *-he cas? of N.S.W. indifferent
©yen as that.
~ Melb. Trades Hall moves to stop the
Senate “ mutilating the protective duties fixed by
the Representatives.” Said mutilation is only
possible through the ratting of Fatmen Fraser and
Sargood, who, with little Zeal, topped the Vic-
torian poll, and did it largely through the votes of
those same trades-unionists.
It only needs a stalwart liberal leader to
work up a good majority for progressive legisla-
tion in the new S.A. Assembly. Of 42 members
at least 22 profess advanced Liberalism, but the
Jenkins Cabinet favors nothing more vigorous
than standing still, while if the democrats are
not watchful there will be a retrograde move-
ment.
The Queensland Cabinet is “black” from
the heart outwards. Individual members of it
are personally mixed up with blackbirding
schooners, with black-labor sugar plantations,
and with black-labor pearl-shelling—in fact, there
is hardly a big colored-labor-employing concern
in the State in which /one or other Minister has
not a share.
The fact that J. W. Taverner looms large
in the present Ministerial-construction boom in
Victoria shows how utterly destitute local politics
are of any men fit for leadership. Taverner was
one of the Jonahs who had to be thrown over-
board by Turner on account of criticism of his
alleged lavish expenditure of public money when
he made a historical trip to Europe.
Adelaide Agricultural Society has covered
itself with glory by returning £3OO of its £BOO
Govt, subsidy, on the ground that the State is
hard-up and that the Society’s gate-receipts have
been abnormal It voted £2BOO as prizes for the
Sept, fixture. This piece of self-abnegation is not
likely to be infectious. Just imagine the N.S.W.
“ Agricultural ” Society giving back anything!
SURE CURE.
" I've a grand specific for keeping my wife
healthy “ What is it?”
"I tell her that if she is well enough when I
come home we'll go to the theatre; and when I
want her to be very healthy I always say,
‘and to supper afterwards.'"
Lee and Hogue were both members of the
Reid Ministry, which twice went to the people
for a mandate to reform the N.S.W. Upper House,
and got it, and made no attempt to reform the
Upper House. It is worth while remembering
this. No one would think it, considering the
virtuously indignant blither of Lee and Hogue
because John See ian. year behind in keeping his
promise about reforming the Lower House.
Yio. Premier Peacock found a spectre with
a motion of censure waiting for him on the door-
step when Parliament met. If the Tory party
can secure office now the re-enactment of the
Factories Act is probably lost, and the proposed
reform of the House of Landlords is lost to a dead
certainty. So Irvine, the man with the dried
soul and the sandy mind, is making a special
effort.
There is, so far, no mention by the See
Government of the legislation—promised for the
beginning of the session—to put the Sabbath
banana on a legal footing in N.S.W. Meanwhile
the Sunday-closing laws are administered, whether
by carelessness or design, with gross partiality,
and those who do obey them find their business
seriously prejudiced by rivals who keep open seven
days a week.
Extract from the Speech at the opening of
N.S.W. Parliament, being the See Government’s
vote of censure on itself:
My advisers. . . . are. however, of opinion that it is
desirable to curtail the Loan Expenditure on Public
Works.
In other words, “my advisers respectfully but
firmly kick themselves, and trust that the process
gives every satisfaction.”
Canada, the most protective and the most
prosperous of all the British dependencies, has on
its tariff 33 articles on which the import duty is 50
per cent. ! 314 articles at 35 per cent.; 435 at 30
per cent.; one at per cent.; 450 at 25 per cent.
That miserable apology for Protection, the Barton
tariff, on the other hand, begins where the Cana-
dian tariff leaves off; it has about half-a-dozen
duties at 25 per cent., and the rest are lower than
that.
Roughly estimated, parties reassemble in
N.S.W. Assembly as—Opposition 30, Labor 30,
Country party 20 (mainly Seeites), Govt, party 40,
and the John Norton party 1 (this party meets
with a very sore head). Also one Speaker and
an indefinite or two. None of them seems to
have a definite aim but the Labor party, and after
its recent victories that organisation will exercise
more sway in Parliament than last session, if that
is possible.
What of all things Australia wants most is
population of an industrious, enterprising, solvent
type —men with a little courage to strike out, and
a little money. It’s just that sort of people that
Premier Barton, by his iniquitous arrangement
with Bums, Philp, and Co., is pushing off to the
New Hebrides to “ extend British influence there.”
Australia is being bled white for the Empire.
Barton’s White Australia—bled white for Cham-
berlain, Cohen, and Co.
S.A. Parliament will not meet until the
first week in July, and no one yet can say what
will happen when members get together again.
There is said to be a tacit understanding between
the Ministry and the direct Opposition that
everything possible shall be done to isolate the
Labor party. Darling and Homburg, the Tory
chiefs, both have lucrative businesses, and neither
feels inclined to sacrifice income by taking office,
so they have magnanimously made it known that
“ so long as Jenkins goes slow we shall not inter-
fere with him, but if he tries any socialistic non-
sense, out he will go. We think,” they add,
‘ ‘ that he won’t risk his Ministry for the sake of
pleasing the Labor fellows, and certainly we don’t
want their help.”
At the last Royal Colonial Institute
slobber:
Lord Grey recommended the creation.of an order of
membership, the members to be styled associates, with a
view to enlisting wider sympathies, especially among the
artisan classes, on behalf of union and the development of
the Empire.
That’s the game. Give the fools a bit of the
alphabet to tag on to their names. The bait costs
nothing and catches many a gudgeon.
A plausible theory re the Hopetoun epi-
sode is that Chamberlain, wishing to draw tighter
those “silken cords,” and further desiring to fan
the flame of Imperialism freshly lighted by the
S.A. war, hopes, in the not distant future, to give
us for G.-G. a princeling, German or otherwise, as
may suit the Colonial Office. With this end in
view, he has been pushing Barton to make the
salary good enough for a minor Royalty;
and Hopetoun, being well and favorably known
in Australia, was the mo3t likely to score in this
direction —hence the pressure.
A STRAIGHT TIP.
DR. M ‘LEAN, SENR. (to Dr. M‘Lean, junr.):
“ Above all, my son, take care to keep your
patients well up in the latest fashions in
diseases. Just now, for instance, abdominal
inflammation must always be appendicitis,
and”-(Left talking.)
A Tasmanian branch of the A.N.A. lately
fassed a resolution favoring the granting to
reland of the same rights of self-government as
.Australia enjoys. And a prominent A.N.A.
director in a public speech commented —
Such action was distinctly mutinous. It embarrassed
the board, which was anxious to carefully preserve the
non-political character of the association.
But there is no influential protest against the nu-
merous pro-Gore resolutions of A.N.A. branches;
it is only Liberal opinions that are objected to.
Sydney D.T. (May 19), in a leading
artiole :
The bonus system is one which gives large opportunity
for the misuse of public funds by the importunate adven-
turers of manufacture and production, who conduct ex-
periments in the establishment of industries at the public
cost.
This remark applies with sweet completeness to
the payment by N.S.W. Government for many
years of a bonus of some thousands per annum to
the proprietors of the D.T. and S.M.H., to enable
them to have their papers carried by special trains
for nothing.
Whilst the resignation of Gov.-General
Hopetoun was under discussion in the Senate,
t’other day, Senator Higgs asked if the Govern-
ment ‘‘would respectfully petition the Imperial
authorities to, in future, reserve the office of
G.-G. of the Commonwealth for those statesmen
who had served Australia faithfully and honor-
ably,” and was informed that the Govt, could
entertain no such proposition. The reply was to
be expected in the circumstances. What Aus-
tralia should fight hard for now is the right to fill
her State Governorships from amongst her own
people, as in Canada.
A London Daily News correspondents
urges that Australia should put up £29,000,000 as
its fair proportion (of the cost of the Boer war
according to its proportion of the empire’s white
population, and Canada £34,000,000. And if, as
our Jingoes used to assert in the blaring days
of the Mafeking drunk, they are prepared to carry
their share of the burdens of the empire, the
statement is just about correct. The Daily News
proposal hasn’t a friend in all Australia, and it is
greeted on all sides as a hideous joke, yet it is
only the thing the Jingoes declared they were
longing to do, reduced to plain figures.
“ T.” : The open rupture between N.S.W.
Lands Minister Crick and the Farmers’ and Set-
tlers’ Association will not cause the. country much
concern—if anything, it will give Crick a reputa-
tion for some spine, which none of his prede-
cessors, bar Jack Robertson, ever had. The
F. and S. Ass. has now developed into a political
organisation, controlled by “sharks,” agents,
newspaper-men, and a few pannikin-squatters
who call their places Something Park, and are
described by the thirsty bush journalist as
“squire ”or “ our enterprising citizen.” Not five
per cent, of the farmers of the State are members
of this body.
Maoriland Farmers’ Union is likely to go
to pieces over the question of some railways.
The Otago farmers want the Otago Central Rail-
way finished at any cost, and at once. The Can-
terbury farmers want the Midland completed
immediately, and the Auckland section demands
that the north trunk line shall be built instantly.
Meanwhile the money has gone in the ten contin-
gents, and all three railways are stuck. And the
Farmers’ Union demands that more contingents
be sent, and, so far from putting up the money to
pay for them, it refused recently to pay its own
railway fare to its own conference, and demanded
a free pauper ticket.
One of the loudest cries of the squatters
just now is that the State railways should carry
fodder for their starving stock gratis. Yet the
man who runs the squatters’ organ, the Pas-
toralists’ Review, bombards the press with
letters to the effect that State railways are a
curse, and that private lines are the only thing
that can save the country. It would be interest-
ing to know what kind of chance the squatters
reckon they would have to get their fodder carried
gratis on private companies’ railways. The Tory
party curses State enterprise in theory, but no
party appeals to it more enthusiastically for aid
when times are bad and private enterprise is tot-
tering on its uncertain legs.
A letter from Gladstone (Central Queens-
land) :
Many were the advantages we were to receive when the
Gallide Railway was started, if only the Labor supporters
did not put in one of their objectionable sort, which would
block the business, and the line would never be con-
structed. That was the cry some months ago. What’s keep-
ing back the line, now the right member has got in ? The
syndicate has three years to construct 40 miles of railway
fit for passenger traffic. Sixteen months of this time are
past and gone, and the promoter is yet, some time in
the future, to do a trip to London to raise the money.
Oh, this trip ! How often has the promoter been going 1
Our present member, Jason Boles, will probably be able
to promise, at next election, that the Oallide Railway is
going to start as soon as he is safely returned again.
Jenkins Iscariot, of S.A., recently ex-
plained that, so far as his State has got with its
policy of repurchasing large properties for closer
settlement the money raised for repurchase pur-
poses (£192,265) costs about £5BOO a year in
interest, and the land has been cut up and let at
an annual rental of about £7BO0 —net profit £2OOO
a year. That looks good enough, for at 3 per
cent, compound interest the profit would pay off
the whole debt in 47 years and leave the land an
unencumbered State asset. Yet Jenkins and the
Jenkins papers profess that the scheme is some-
thing very like a failure; one of the Adelaide
weeklies even published these figures to prove that
the rash experiment had practically fallen through.
Concerning the Commonwealth’s printing-
bill, military administration, and a few other
matters, The Bulletin gives this extract from
the Commonwealth Gazette
Military Forces of the Commonwealth, Queensland.
DISTRICT ORDERS.
By Lieutenant-Colonel P. R. Ricardo, 0.8., Acting
Commandant.
No. 276.—A Board, composed as under, will assemble
at Victoria Barracks, at 11 a.m. on the 23rd instant, to
report on the fitness of a horse, No. 3 Queensland Regi-
ment, Royal Australian Artillery, as to its fitness for
work or otherwise :—President, Lieutenant-Colonel A.
Aytoun, D. 5.0., 1.5.0. ; Members, Major W. H. P.
Plomer, Officiating A.AG., Lieutenant H. D. K. Macart-
ney, Q.R.R.A.A. The Principal Veterinary Officer will
attend.
If only that horse, No. 3, could read 1 There
would surely be a stable inquiry as to the sanity
of several L. M. N. O. P. Q. R’s.
BITTEN ALL THE SAME.
COUNTRY DOCTOR : “ What about my account,
Duffy, for treating you last summer for that
suspected snake-bite?”
DUFFY : “ Yerself said no shnake touched me, and
faith meself at the toime misdoubted that
same, but whin I got your bill, Docther. I
foinds it was thin I was bit for sartin.”
“ Solomon Smith,” to The Bulletin :
Quite an error to suppose that the Maoriland prohibi-
tion movement is owing in any great measure to the cold-
tea party. As a matter of fact, it is Bung’s best friend,
for the simple reason that sensible people will not mix
with Pharisees, and the average cold-water person is
usually a compound of ignorance and self-righteousness.
The real feeling that is gaining ground is against the
monopoly : one has to pay sixpence for a decoction of
malt of no more intrinsic value than the same quantity of
tea or milk. A brewer in England, whose tied houses
retail wholesome malt liquor at a shilling a gallon, has
grown so wealthy that he can send for King Ned to
inaugurate his new brewery. And yet a section of
Maorilanders howl about the liberty of the subject, <fcc.,
whenever any scheme for reducing the brewers’ extortion
is mentioned. The moderate revenue obtained under the
present system doesn’t pay the necessary magistrates and
police for protecting the retailer, and there are but a few
licensees who earn anything like a shilling an hour.
Prohibition (of the present system) is the first step
towards supplying the public with good malt liquor at a
penny or three-halfpence a pint.
Premier Philp, of Queensland, the man
who proposed to save money by retrench-
ing Wragge, has lately announced that he
will be able to keep on Wragge if the Federal
Government pays for Wragge’s telegrams. Of
course, if the Federal Government pays for
Wragge’s telegrams that will be so much less
Federal surplus to return to Queensland, and
Queensland might just as well pay Wragge’s
telegrams itself, but the primitive Philp is always
trying to make the blanket longer by cutting a
bit off one end and sewing it on to the other.
Still more recently Philp had an even brighter
idea. He proposed that the other States, in
addition to paying for their own meteorological
departments, should subscribe among them to pay
for his department. This cheeky attempt of one
State to pass the pauper hat among the others for
the support of one of its own State departments
was in very bad taste. If Queensland would levy a
land and income tax, as its neighbors do, it could,
pay for its own Wragge.
QUAERITUR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
a We made a war of Robbery ;
We made a war of Jobbery ;
We cut the throat of Freedom, and we tore the
breast of Shame;
We filled a canvas city full
With tender ones and pitiful,
And when they perished sorrowful—we prated
loud of Fame !
We threatened fierce and thunderful,
We fought a combat wonderful,
We bragged about our battles where we numbered
five to one ;
Each tender word we stifled it,
Each gentle home we rifled it,
And plunderers ranked as heroes when the days of
Heath were done 1
So now we sheathe the sword again,
And now we praise the Lord again
For Peace that fills our borders after Battle’s fiery
flood;
But, when the land is green again,
Will these, our hands, be clean again ?
And shall we reap in Blessing—when we sowed the
seed in Blood f
L.


&he
vSTEINWAY
PIANO
Used by Royalty.
SOLE
AGENTS
PALING’S.
STEINWAY PIANO * *
Is beyond question the Best Piano tHat
Has ever been manufactured.
It is the outcome of brains, energy,
and mechanical sßill of tHe Highest
order.
THe Steinway Patents produce re-
markably pure tone quality, great
delicacy of touch, and extreme dura-
bility.
It is tHe most expensive Piano made,
but then —IT**S THE BEST..
No further argument needed.
Catalogues and Price Cists Free.
Old Pianos taKen in Exchange.
W. H. PALING (Q. CO., Ltd
338 George Street, Sydney,
Brisbane and Newcastle,
KOH-I-NOOR
GILDED
METAL
LETTERS
For Signs and Shop-Fronts,
Sole Agents:
Made from Copper or Steel in
one piece, deeply embossed, and
ooated with the best English
Gold-Leaf.
Supplied by Anthony Hordern and
Bons, or depot at 509 George St,
Copper & Gilded:
6 10 12 15 20in. per letter.
8/- 6/8 8/3 11/8 17/3 „
Steel & Gilded:
6 10 12 15 20in. per letter.
8/8 4/6 6/9 7/10 12/4 „
J. Leigh Jones & Co.
600 CEORCE ST.
SYDNEY.
VITADATIO
The Great Herbal Blood Remedy.
66 Oastlemaine-atreet, Yarraville,
„ _ Melbourne, Vic., 19th July, 1897.
Mr. 8. A. PALMER, agent for VITADATIO.
Dear Sir, —I have been troubled for the past two years
with Stricture, and been under skilful medical men in
South Australia and also in Victoria. I have undergone
three operations but only received temporary benefit.
As the doctors said there was no cure forme, I was recom-
mended to try VITADATIO. I purchased one bottle
which I was pleased to find acted like magic on my
complaint. I have taken five large bottles, and can
truly say up to the present time I have received great
benefit, and fully believe it will make a complete cure of
my complaint. You are at liberty to make what use you
think of this, as VITADATIO cannot be too highly
recommended.—l remain, yours truly,
EDWARD JENKINS.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
Franz Josef
APERIENT WATER
Is the ONLY PALATABLE NATURAL
APERIENT WATER.
Sole Agents ßockb, Tompsitt &00., Melbourne.
The Ways of Many Waters
Bv E. J. BRADY. 6/3 (Post Free)from Bulletin Office.
MEUBALGIA IS RESPONSIBLE , . .
... . r for a great number of the careworn
7-f; faces so frequently met with both
in the city and country. All
neuralgic pains and headaches can
7 -> c be speedily removed by taking
Newman’s SPECIAL NEURALGIA POWDER, 2/-
By post, 2/2.
NEWMAN, CHEMIST, 82 King-street, Sydney.
Thus John Arthur (Brisbane Chamber of
Commerce big-wig) in a recent Courier :
It is possible that in the event of a great war involving
England we may have to rely on the Japanese fleet for
protection to our commerce, and for the retention of our
islands in the Pacific, and in such a case it should be
apparent, even to the average Australian legislator, that
our present position would be absolutely untenable.
Wherefore John Arthur recommends (not as might
be supposed) the building up of an Australian
navy for our own protection, but the relaxing of
our restrictive immigration laws —for fear of
offending the Jap, who may have to defend us
some day. ... It is hard to distinguish nowa-
days between the voice of Plutocratic Pat and the
squeal of abject cowardice.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
32 of this issue.*
XJSE
SPOONER’S
m
SPOONER’S
V
*
*
IMINT LEATHER 8 DOTS
'GLAZED RIOS «
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning’ and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, eta.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
I of the blood,and ena-
blingtli. constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
t Invaluable in all
I cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
. for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET. “A beautiful and interesting
preparation”
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-"!* has all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
v it does not blacken the teeth."
SOLD, BY CHEMISTS .ALL THE WORLD OVER.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette.
FROM US TO YOU - .THE
It
Wears
Well!
In the Commonwealth upon receipt of 23/6 per pairor in
Tan Leather for 24/6. State Size of Boot, also if Pointed,
Medium, or Broad Toes are desired.
CALLAGHAN
BOOT
POST
FREE.
DUTY
FREE.
Gentlemen's Fine
Calf Lace Boots,
Whole Goioshedj
Calf Kid Legs, Made-
to-order Appearance.
Price
2^/6
You ought to wear CALLAGHAN BOOTS, because they are the handsomest, most
comfortable, long-wearing, and satisfactory Boots made at any price.
You can’t get them unless you buy from us. They are not Bargain-counter Boots. They
are not “ seconds.” They are never behind the times or stale.
{Delivered Post Free
and Duty Free to
any Address
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st., Sydney.


Banking, Public Companies, &o.
Tffpon * all * Classes - of
Security.-
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
tis>
c,t-
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3>o\S,-\7V.
(|)ont deplete OJI. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
CASTLEREAGH ST. f *1 A.
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
TIIIB—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Robbrts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Brijch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Mii-i.hr.
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,872 —assuring £26,085,346.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —equitably distributed.
Head Office :
il9 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
file Bank of Oorfh Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director - JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Oo. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL *;700.000
Capital Paid-up ... £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 900 ... £350.000
Tb€ Trustees, CnccdtorS,
AND
Agsocv Conjpaov Limited,
£150,000
£90,000
£150,000
0 0
£BB5B 7 3
16,388,976 5 3
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
RESERVE FUND (used in Company s
business)
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1901
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Lsq. ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED.
P A PITAIj PAID-UP .. .. «• •• ♦* £423,000
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS. 209,581
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 54,000
£686,581
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital
.. £2,500,000
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of Lon don.
The Premie* - Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Dire'•tors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Briirht & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Borns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M‘Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
I< arquhar. ALLEN Genera i Manager for Australia,
’ 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
■PHE SAVINGS BANK IN VICTORIA
I HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Queensland Smelting (Jompy.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
-OUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
l~> Conner Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
tariff am ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
ior Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 62 Market-street, Melbourne. _____
United iQSdraoce Co.
(LIMITED.)
He GE°ORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£,500,000.
T nn(i effected on all classes of
Fire Insurances buildings, stocks, Fumi-
“““— —— tuT . 6) e t C- Rents also assured.
iwr • UloVc. on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
Marine JaiISKS o{ y esse i S) Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Ilutes very Low.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, June 7, 2 p in.'
Gabo, Tuesday, June 10, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, June 14, 2 p.in.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tuesday, June 10, 6 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Tuesday, June 10, 6 p.ui.
(No Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Peregrine, Saturday, June 7, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra, Tues., June 10, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, June 14, 2 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Saturday, June 7, 2 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, June 14, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GEUALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Lass o' Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked t.hrouirh.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
WHITE STAR LINE
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
RUNIC, to Sail on or about 20th JUNE.
MEDIC, AFRIC, SUEVIC, and PERSIC
to follow.
FARES—Capetown
London
New York, &c.
£l3 13 0 to £2l 0 0
16 3 6 to 24 6 1
22 611 to 30 7 7
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables , and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, parker & (Jo’s Qine
—TO —
MELIK) rut Nit, lIOItA ItT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTKA LI A,
NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
A.3XTI3
&
LINE
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS,
SIERRA
SONOMA
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P.
Length, 426 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.. LTD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
via
San Francisco
California.
TIME TABLE.
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
, Ass6rai)C€ Society.
(ESTABLISHED 1879.)
THE MOST LIBERAL AND PROGRESSIVE
LIFE OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA.
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and Castlereagh
Streets, Sydney.
VICTORIAN BRANCH:
Baring Chambers, Market Street, Melbourne.
Wm. Bennett, Manager.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH:
36 and 33 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
JAS. GLISSAN, Resident Secretary.
GEO. CROWLEY, General Manager.
JBank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office —GEORGE STREET, SYDNKY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund...
Reserve Liability
Total 6,270,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Chas. K. Mackellar, M.L.0., President.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Hf.nry Normand MacLaurin, M.L.Q.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
Auditors:
A. G. Milson, Esq. J. S. Harrison, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East. /
J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
The-Commercial Bankiny Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund ... ... l,0li),000 0 0
Reserve Liability .... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:*
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. £. Kater, M.L.C. .. . .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. 4 Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
E. W. Knox, Esq.
Auditors :
E. S. Cape, Esq. Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A.' Dibbs, General Manager : T. B-. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dahgar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H S
Lit tleton Manager, Nathaniel Cork
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
2,000,000 0 0
1,270,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
SLATER’S DETECTIVES.” Acknowledged by
both the Press and the Public to be the finest
ranisat'on of Male and Female Detective talent in the
arid for private inquiries. Representatives in every
wn on earth. Consultations Free. HENRY SLATER,
in age r. No. 1 BASINGHALL STREET, LONDON,
1 GLAND. Cables, “ Distance,” London.
nxr. id. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
Off
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS ROOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
h
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
Interstate First Glass Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0.; Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN. Uth JUNE,
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
Moana, June 16.
Miowera, July 14.
Aorangi, August 11.
GRAND EXCURSION TO ROCKY MOUNTAINS
OF AMERICA.
£6O FOR 63 DAYS,
Including steamer, Railway, and Hotel
Expenses.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
W/fA
%mwlm
m^Mw
hi
CHOICE TIPS,
Black, White or Cream.
Graceful and
becoming for the
Young or Old.
10/-
The
Bunch
There is a charm about a hat
with Ostrich Tips no other
Trimming can impart.
Post Free to any Address.
Write Now. Send Postal Notes,
FILLER'S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets,
MELBOURNE.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE >
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. VVollowra,
(from Melbourne),
Tuesday, June 10.
S.S. Marloo
(from Melbourne),
Tuesday, June 24.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Allinga,
Friday, June 6.
Best and Cheapest Jtoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cfcirns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith Oo.,
Ld. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Oo. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY. .
A. U. S. N. Cov. Ltd.
rOyal mail coastal service.
.THIS POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sj’dnev, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Maokay,
80-wen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
_P asseiif/er Accommodation, A (tendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, 10 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P AND A COMPANY’S
■ ■ ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
• FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
ĥ
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £/7
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific,
Messageries Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE. FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Officer
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Through bookings to points in Canada, United States
of America and Europe at special rates.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
Lowest Fares and Freights.
For further information apply to
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
SMOKE .
THE
<?°;
ħ
GBD
A
h
INSIST
on having this Brand
and no other,
Australian Depot:
231 CLAR€NC€ STR€€T,
SYDKTBY.


Premier See, being deputationised once
more on the weary subject of Local Government
for N.S.W., posed as a very tired man. He said
it was a large question, and couldn t be dealt with
comprehensively without devoting a whole session
to it (the question won’t become any smaller by
being postponed), but that next session he hoped
to bring in “ a short measure which would contain
the basic principle of local government on a prac-
tical platform.” But the country wants just plain
ordinary local government as they bave ** 111
Queensland or Victoria (John See, if he is too
tired to draft his own Act, might copy one of
theirs), and it doesn’t want to be put oft with
basic principles or a short measure or a
platform any more. When John See wants
18 tons of carrots in bags, he objects to being put
off with a short turnip on a platform. Li he
would be half as business-like in Parliament as lie
is in his produce store, things would go much
faSter ' TO darken grey hair.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
There is now no doubt that the “ Reform
agitation in Victoria is a crusted-Tory move. Its
chief object is the wiping out of the Factories Act.
The producer, who sweats his own flesh and blood
by forcing his children to pick fruit, milk cows
and scare birds off the crops, naturally sympa-
thises with the manufacturer who used to sweat his
factory hands. These two classes of vultures have
joined forces and are determined, if possible, to
break up what in their ignorance they are pleased
to call “socialistic legislation.” The peculiar
feature about the whole underhand business is that
the Tories outside of Parliament are not in accord
with the Tories in Parliament Most of the Tories
in the Leg. Assembly have declared war to the
knife against the Kyabram programme, although it
was framed with the view of giving the fatocracy
a better chance at the polls. F. T. Derham
has re-emerged from the bleak obscurity of his
biscuit-factory, and impotently threatens Peacock
with ruin and devastation if he does not abolish
the Wages Boards. Outtrim, chairman of the
Royal Commission appointed to inquire into the
working of the Factories Act, is playing some
deep game. The other day, the Commission re-
commended Govt, to re-enact the measure until
Dec. 31. Peacock has rightly declined to adopt
such a ridiculous idea. The Act does not expire
till the close of the session, and the session may
last beyond 31st Dec.
ĥ
RAMEY'S MEOICA TOR
For the Treatment of Catarrh. Hay Fever,
Bronchitis, Influenza, Catarrhal
Deafness, etc.
Medlcator, with complete treat-
ment, only 101-, post free .
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY
229,231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE..
Publications.
TO HORSE-MASTERS.
NOW READY.
The Highly Instructive Book,
“AUSTRALIAN HORSES FROM
PADDOCK TO PARK ”
By D. McGILLIVRAY
(The Celebrated Australian Horse Taming, Riding,
and Driving Expert).
A TREATISE on the Scientific Handling, Breaking,
-“• Educating, and the General Management of Horses,
teaching the Author's wonderful methods of completely
subduing the most savage animals living : in a few
minutes, with upwards of 105 splendid illustrations
obtained by instantaneous photography whilst he was
at work upon the wild and raw material.
Obtainable from the following Agents :
Sydney—Messrs. Wm. Brooks & Co. Ltd., 17
Cas tier eagh -street.
Brisbane—Messrs. Wm. Brooks & Co. Ltd.
Grunnedah, N.S. W.-—Messrs. Bacon & Co.
Price, 11s.—post free.
20% discount allowed on large orders.
NOW READY.
“BUSHMAN »»d
BUCCANEER”
Illustrated
HARRY MORANT:
(of the
Bosh veldt
Carbineers)
HIS ’V€NTUR€S
AND V€RS€S
By FRANK RBNAR.
The History, Verses and Correspondence of
“The Breaker.”
PRICE ONIfsHILLING
POSTAGE ONE PENNY. All Booksellers.
Wholesale: Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney.
Retail: “ Bulletin ” Newspaper Co. Ltd., Sydney.
Ask your music-seller for
FREDERIC H. COWEN'S
Beautiful Song,
The Mission of a Rose
Sun? with the greatest success by
Miiss AMY CASTLES.
The Illustrated London News says : “ It is a gem.”
“Bells at Sunset.”
This charming composition for the Piano, by
W S. ROCKSTRO, is now in stock, and can le
supplied by all Music Dealers.
W. PAXTON & CO., Publishers,
London, Melbourne.
Tha DAISY SERIES of Pianoforte Albums. The most
popular books for young players ever published.
EDISON PHONOGRAPH RECORDS,
One Shillling; Each.
One Dozen Assorted, carefully packed and postage
paid to any address on receipt of 15s. Blanks, 9d.
Edison Electric Company,
1 ROWE STREET, SYDNEY.
2h.p. to 100h.p.
KING. MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
!525
Mias
7 -
<’v.-
Noiseless Uuderwater . . .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J. F.
Telephone 2671.
WITH THE KING ENCINE— ONE LEVER CONTROLS THE WHOLE.
MCDERMOTT & COafIEFA-KTY,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
CORSETS
P.D.
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard or
HIGH-CLASS CORSETS
LATEST SPECIALTY
Straight Front
Erect Form.
Obtainable from Leading Drapers
Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and sea that each
>air bears the Manufacturer’s ‘ ‘ Trade Mark ” on
>and inside, as above.
VMi
$3
ħ
h
ĥ
A Beautiful Solid GOLD RING Set with a Genuine Garnet.
NO MONEV WANTED.
Simply send us your name and adduess, plainly written on a postal card, and we will send you
20 packages of our Imperishable Violet Perfume in a box —free of all expense to you. You
then sell the perfume among your friends and neighbours at 6d a package (if you can), and
when sold you remit us the money •you have collected and we will send you Absolutely Free i
for your trouble the above descrihod ring, which is stamped and warranted Solid Gold,
set with a Genuine Garnet. Remember you have no duty or charges of any kind l
to pay—both the perfume and premiums are sent absolutely Free of all charges. Our
object in making this marvellous offer, and giving such unusual fine premiums, is to get our (
very superior perfume into the hands of the public immediately, as we are satisfied that everyone
wi’l he so well pleased with it that they will gfadly recom lend it to their friends —we have (
hundreds of unsolicited testimonials. You simple send your name and address plainly written
on a post card, and we will send the perfume. No money required. We take all risk. Goods (
returnable if not sold. Remember ive pay all Shipping Expenses.
NATIONAL SUPPLY CO., Dept. f. 38 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W. *
THE
‘PLUM’
ħ
THE
/"GENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, ring’s
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Prick
{Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 219.
Single Razoi, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 303.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
5t3P" Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
esenss
THE —a.
Coronation Spoon
A Special Treasure to British
People in Fai -off Lands.
Size
of Spoons ■
4% &6^
In Solid Silver or Gold. Price from 8 post fre<
and manufactured by Pearce and Sons, Silvers
dersfield, England, by whom it is being sent to
the World.
Designed
uuths, ilud-
all parts of
olid
liver
historic Gift for 1902.
If you have an 1837 Souvenir of Queen
Victoria’s Coronation you know its
value, and will be anxious to secure
early the choicest Historic Souvenir
of KING EDWARD YII. This
registered emblematic spoon is a
hew departure in souvenirs: a rare combination of the
beautiful, valuable, historic, and useful. No marriage
presents will be complete without a set of these emblem tic
spoons. A gift for every «. mid of the Empire born in
this Coronation Year. No Souvenir could be more highly
appreciated. Sand for illustrations of Sizes and Prices.
h
The Historic Gift of 1903,
Description —The Bust of the King, surmounted by His Crown,
the reverse bearing the Rose, Thistle, and Shamrock—(Jreat Britain and
reland; these support the Royal Monogram, E.R. Vii., I!iu2, and are up-
held by iris-like leaves, each representing one of our (treat Possessions;
the leaves uniting form the Empire Stem. The Roots of this Empire
,'iant run round the Royal Arms, the Emblem of our Constitution,
right into the Heart of the Peoples.
Attention and Care given to
Golonial and Foreign Orders.
Spy- Colonials and those Abroad will affect a real Saving of Money in
purchasing direct from Messrs. Pkarck & Sons. Send for their
Pictoxdal Price List of Solid Silver Novelties and High-Class
Presents.
PEARCE & SONS, Silversmiths, &c.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
matt:-
C
O
o
N
5
19 * 02
O
m
m
m
m
383491
Li
,’S
t>^ r
Euca
VS a
\# ttS
OVV
£l v\w 0 ;
va \«aW® c uves
»-• S» «•»*■
Co^ s
TVVO
\t<iV
ta^
ot* s ‘
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstkk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
HIS RUPTURE
CURED.
Engineer on the Midland Railway
Restored by the Wonderful Rice
Method.
One of the well-known engineers on the Midland
Railway, having been in their employ a long time,
relates some very interesting facts about how he
cured himself of a bad rupture by the Rice
Method. His name is George Jordan, and is in
good standing, so what he says for the benefit of
other railway men who are ruptured can he relied
upon as truthful and of value.
1 1
m
v 'V\\V\>'
27, Bishopstone Road, Gloucester,
Dr. W. S. Rice. July 21,1901.
Dear Sir,—l am very pleased to say that I am
cured of Rupture after using your treatment for
three months, having been ruptured for seventeen
years.
I have already spent a lot of money on treatment,
having paid one doctor sixteen guineas without
getting much good, and I had lost all hope of being
cured until I read your advertisement in Lloyd’s
Newspaper.
I acted strictly on your advice, and I have not been
troubled with my Rupture since the first week I tried
your treatment, and although I get a lot of shaking
about (being a locomotive engine driver on the
Midland Railway), I have not worn a Truss for abouO
two months, and Ido not feel the slightest weakness
now, and am enjoying better health than I have
had for seventeen years.
You can make what use you like of this letter, as
I am anxious for all sufferers to know of your treat-
ment; and I shall advise all my friends afflicted with
this complaint to use it, as I know it will cure per-
manently.—Your faithfully, George Jordan.}
The RICE Method of curing rupture is as near
perfect as anything could be, and a great many
remarkable cures have been effected. Every
ruptured railway man should write Dr. W. S. Rice,
9S stonecutter Street, LONDON, E.C., who
will send a FREE SAMPLE of his method, also
a complete and illustrated series of pamphlets
showing conclusively that his method cannot fail of
a cure. It is a home treatment at small cost, with-
out pain, danger, operation, or an hour’s detention
from work. Do not fail to write for either yourself
•vr someone vou know to be ruDtured.
The Roman
Hair
Restorer
Produces Brown and Black Hair.
Price 1/6 ; by post, 2/3.
An inexpensive and
certain preparation for
renewing and restoring
to its original color the
hair of the head, beard
and whiskers.
Largely used by the Roman ladies for preserving their
magnificent tresses. Nourishes the roots and removes
dandruff ; increases the quantity, and renders it glossy
and supple ; does not stain the skin nor soil the linen. If
your hair is falling off or turning grey, use this.
CAUTION.—This being different from most prepara-
tions, other kinds should be refused.
JAMES BRINSMEAD and CO., Chemists, ST. KILDA,
83T“ All Chemists sell it.


JOHN JAMESON
“THREE-STAR” WHISKEY.
Agents : J. BASSE JOHNSTON & CO., Loffcus Street, Sydney.
REUTER’S
LITTLE
PILLS FOR
THE LIVER .
Are particularly adapted to the needs
of the family, act in such a manner as to
cause no inconvenience, specially intended
for the cure of all ailments arising from a
disordered LIVER and STOMACH.!
TM€
PLAIN
TRUTH
ĥ
THE RED BIRD BICYCLE
WILL STJIT TOTJ BEST.
It Is Strong, Easy Running, and Every Part is of Tested Quality.
The Buying Terms are Easy. Goold Bicycle Co., 64 King St., Sydney
Hardy’s Tintara Wines
Absolutely Pure; Fully Matured; 700 Medals, etc.
Adelaide:
CURRIE STREET
A
Melbourne:
COLLINS STREET
A
Sydney:
GROSVENOR STREET
Peace.
As this issue went to press it was announced that
the South African war was at an end and that
terms of peace had been signed at Pretoria. The
terms, as reported by cable, include the abandon-
ment of the proclamation condemning the Boer
leaders to exile; a grant of £3,000,000 towards the
repair of the burnt farms ; the farmers are to
Tetam their rifles ; their language is not to be
suppressed ; no death-penalty is to be enforced
against the men from Natal and Cape Colony who
joined the commandoes ; and at a date not yet
faxed, but understood not to be remote, the
-British troops are to be withdrawn, and the
country placed under a system of local self-
government such as exists in Australia. These
terms suggest how utterly, unspeakably weary of
the long-dragged-out war Britain had become,
itven the mere fact of there having been a formal
signing of a peace agreement marks a tremendous
climbing-down on the part of the “uncon-
ditional surrender” party. The two repub-
lics had been formally “annexed,” and
the British Government therefore claimed
tho right to treat the Boers as “ rebels ” 5
yet the leaders of the last remnant of the Farmers’
army seem to have negotiated their surrender as
belligerents claiming equal rights, and not at all
as criminals. The item which recalls the
most unpleasant memories is the allusion to
local self-government; it was a silly and
shameful breach of faith on that same point which
lost Britain the Transvaal 20 years ago, and
brought about all the troubles which followed. In
the late 70’s the Boers peacefully became a part
°f the British Empire, on condition that they
should have the same Parliamentary rights as
were enjoyed by Natal, Cape Colony, and the
Australian States. But no Parliament was
ever called together. The Transvaal was
ruled as a Crown colony under an arro-
gant and autocratic Governor who had been
trained driving _ niggers in India —and anyone
who reads Premier Seddon’s accounts of Crown-
colony government in Fiji, and his passionate
demands to be allowed to annex these islands and
save the people from it and its horrors, will cease to
wonder that Majuba Hill followed. If the mistake
is not repeated there may be a chance of peace, or
something like peace, in South Africa. But, in
view of the proposals to suspend the constitution
of Cape Colony and put it under a kind of military
despotism, it looks very much as if the unhappy
mistake of 20 years ago was going to be repeated
on an enlarged scale.
. . •
Meanwhile the Jingo press of Australia is in-
teresting reading. All the large public Jingoes
have been interviewed as to their opinions
about the peace, and they all got off mild
platitudes about the Boer and the Briton living
in harmony ; about the fusion of the two races ;
about the union being to the ultimate benefit
of both ; about the Boer being a brave
opponent who was now to be welcomed in a
generous spirit and made a brother, and so on.
And this all means that the language which the
same class of Jingoes lias been using for the last
two years was a series of glaring and premedi-
tated falsehoods—or else that the Jingo is lying
now. For if the Boer is the dirty, cowardly,
treacherous and cruel ruffian that the Jin-
goes have so long declared him to be, he
can’t be a brother, and he can’t mingle with
the British people without degrading the race.
And if he is qualified to be the kind of
brother that is now suggested, then the Jingoes,
in their previous descriptions of him, were a per-
jured and slanderous gang, and anybody who
entrusts his legal business to them—they are very
largely lawyers—is unwise.
* * • •
At all events, the annexation is now completed.
The Boers have not only failed to recover Natal
and the Diamond Fields, stolen from them by
Britain in previous years, but they have lost, what
little territory British aggression had previously
left them. Britain has got another Ireland on its
hands, and the fact that it cost the largest empire
in the world nearly three years fighting to down
two States whose whole white population wouldn’t
make a second-rate English city has given its
military reputation a shock from which it will take
long to recover. Dick Seddon’s occupation is gone.
Australasia, already distracted by its unemployed
problem, will get back some thousands of men to
add to the trouble —men only too many of whom
have lost the habit of honest industry while loot-
ing homes and burning farms. They come back
when affairs here are at their worst. Even in
Maoriland, which is not afflicted by droughts,
fully a quarter of the agricultural land has gone
out of cultivation through the agriculturists going
farm-burning in Africa, and Maoriland itself sees
something not unlike famine ahead of it. This
suffering country may look forward to a trouble
during the present winter which will break all
recent records. The war bill, so far as we are con-
cerned, is still to be paid, and by reason of our
share in the struggle we are going to be cordially
invited to contribute permanently to the support
of the British army. There is nothing cheering
in the situation so far as Australia is concerned,
whichever way matters are viewed.
Authority was cruel to the Aurania cohen-
tingenters. If denial had been spared, and they
had been left with the honor of having sacked an
Australian town, curiosity would have brought
all Sydney out to see them land on Tuesday.
As it was, when the big splash of mud-
colored men spread itself over Circular Quay
in the morning, holiday though it was, there
was but a poor fringe of dark-coated humanity;
and the 1300 in kharki trickled up the
street, led by Colonel Lassetter wearing his best
Sunday frown, between very thin lines of specta-
tors. '* There were a few cheers, but more
“chyack.” But as the men straggled along many
a brother or mate, many a mother, sister, or
“ girl ” fell in to the line, with hand-grasp or kiss,
and to those so favored the welcome home seemed
hearty enough.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Opening of new fixture—A.J.O. P. of W.
Birthday meet—at Randwick, Saturday, drew a big
crowd. Only two of five starters in hurdles finished.
Hot favorite King Pin and third pick Rio came down. In
the Steeple M.L. Pukana, first Australian appearance,
shaped badly over the initial lep, and fell at the second.
Mo had a joyful time on the whole. Principal things,
Princess May and Ellesmere Stakes, fell to Chippy Nor-
ton and Aurantia—the longest priced starters in each in-
stance. A week before Chippy Norton’s owner was fined
for late scratching at Moorefield, and on the same day
Aurantia lined up heavily backed by the public for
Moorefield Handicap, but ran a comparative duffer, which
goes to show what a great game punting is not. Chippy
Norton wasn’t of the first 9 in May Stakes at S.T.O. meet
on 3rd ult., and, two weeks later, figured second last in
Tatts.’ Flying Handicap. Atop of Aurantia’s poor show-
ing at Moorefield she was unplaced in S.T.C. Handicap,
May 3, and Rosehill May Handicap, May 10. Most
diminutive jock. (A. E. Cornwall) in the business to-day,
perhaps, was up on her Saturday last.
* * » *
Of 21 carded only 11 started in A.J.C.’s two
jumping races, Saturday, and only five stood up through-
out. Both supplied hot finishes up the straight, par-
ticularly the Hurdles, wherein big Cranbrook gelding
Taiwan and Marton were locked together to the post,
where Marton just won., Taiwan made his first public
appearance at the “ illegitimate ” game, and jumped
beautifully. Cross-country rider P. Fallon blundered in
trying to win the ’Chase all the way, especially as his
mount, Bushie, had only been in work a few weeks,
consequently he bungled badly at the last obstacle (the
logs) and came a “ purler ” that looked certain death for
Fallon, but he escaped with no injury beyond a stiff neck.
Judiciously ridden, Bushie might have appropriated the
money.
* * * *
Novice Handicap at A.J.O. meet, Saturday,
“ for apprentices,” to some extent defeated its object,
because there are apprentices and apprentices—some
almost as good as the best “ out of their time,” because
of the amount of experience they’ve gone through.
Osborne, who won on The Persian, is little short of the
best among light-weight riders. To bar jocks who have
wins to their credit would fit the purpose better. A
little while back the successful rider in a Melbourne Cup
would have been an eligible pilot under the conditions re-
ferred to.
* ’ * *
Adelaide R.C. Birthday meet opened Saturday.
Big event, City Handicap, fell to an outsider in Clifton,
who streaked home comfortably from well-backed Fortune
Teller and Lucky Dog. Admiral was favorite. Clifton is
from N.S.W., and was got by Grafton from Loch Ena,
who died in ’B9, a year after foaling Clifton. Machine
investments totalled £13,535—£2204 better than last year
and a record, with one exception, for the jlast nine years ;
it also eclipsed S.A.J.O.’s opening day’s busi-
ness. Double-event investment is the feature of S.A.
betting, and Mo. has reaped rich harvests thereby; his
Goodwood and Adelaide Cup specs, brought him a heavy
mad of shekels, and it’s sure that Clifton’s success will
swell the haul as much more.
* « • *
The tote “ fractions” at the recent S.A. Jockey
Club meeting amounted to over £197. In paying out, the
machine only pays to the nearest shilling, and the odd
coppers totalled this respectable sum, which, by common
consent, goes to charities. The idea of annexing small
sundries like that for a Public Debt sinking fund is
below the beastly dignity of the State.
* * * •
Grafton—Sequel filly Suivre, mentioned herein
(31/5/’O2) as full of promise, and which won so hand-
somely at Moorefield previous Saturday, isn’t likely
to run again, through breaking a small bone in the near
foreleg. Which is to be regretted, as good prads are hard
to find these times, and her career, though brief, was
certainly brilliant.
• * • •
Recent Lockhart (N.S.W.) races supplied some-
thing out of the ordinary. Zeno 11. beat Countermarch
in Lockhart Handicap, but owner of latter wouldn’t have
it, and offered to make a match for £2O a-side, which was
accepted. Countermarch won this time by a length.
Stewards held an inquiry into jock Hammill’s riding and -
sent him up for five years. Hammill explained that the
reason he failed in the first instance was through mis-
taking the winning post.
* * * m
A “Speedway Club” is asking permission to
make an enclosed trotting track in Albert Park, Melb.
The track would run alongside an equestrian drive which
the Park commissioners intend to form, and if the club
is really prepared to spend £5OO a year on the main-
tenance of its speedway, under the commissioners’
supervision, the demand for space looks reasonable at a
first glance, seeing that the public would have free
admission to the enclosure, and full use of the seats
placed along the drive. Yet a question arises as to the
fairness of permitting what would be practically an
attraction for blackguardism. Where the trotters are,
there will the beetle-browed blokes gather together.
The day-time character of Albert Park—it was never a
very innocent place after dusk—is threatened by this
speedway proposal. A track set apart for the exercise of
light harness ’osses would be not quite so bad as a low-class
racecourse in its human environment, but it would cer-
tainly serve to introduce a spieler element into Albert
Park life. Years ago the inhabitants of Elsternwick, near
Melbourne, managed to abolish the local racecourse
because it drew mobs of foul-mouthed undesirables to the
district by train and cab, and lowered the moral tone of
proputty thereabouts. Albert Park is so close to Mel-
bourne that the seedy professional loungers would pro-
ceed thither per boot any time the spirit moved them to
go and scowl at the horseflesh of the Speedway Club.
They would constitute a majority—an overwhelming
majority—of the public round about the track, and scare
decent folks away. Heaven knows the decent folks of
Melbourne don’t want any addition to their list of
dangerous thoroughfares.
• * * *
Monday was a heavy day with turfmen. Epsom
Handicap, Metrop., Caulfield and Melb. Cups, N.S.W.
and Melb. Derbies and St. Leg-era, aad V.R.C. G.N. Hur-
dles and ’Chase entries had to be made. Through
absence of the sweepstake in the Caulfield Cup and its
presence in A.J.O.JVletrop., latter race will be equally
rich as last Caulfield Cup, which has been enhanced by
. £5OO since. All the big plums filled well- in quantity and
quality. There were 114 noms. for Epsom Handicap as
against 117 last year, and 101 for Metrop. as opposed to
96 on the previous occasion.
* * • *
Saturday saw Palmer emphasise his Brisbane
Cup form of previous week by appropriating Moreton
Handicap, and once more settling Rabato, this time on
121hs. worse terms. Blunderer also scored again, secur-
ing the Royal Stakes with (among others) the St. Leger
winner, Narelle, behind him. “Jimmy” Wilson, Junr.,
sold Palmer for stud purposes in Q., but the buyer leased
him to K. A. Miller, whose venture has proved a particu-
larly good spec, up to now.
» « • •
Haphazard, among Cabbage Garden State’s
best-known hunters, was destroyed recently, after collect-
ing 86 firsts and 42 seconds in shows. " Said he once
humped 18.10 (made up of rider, saddle, bridle, and other
impedimenta) over eight miles of tough jumps following
Mount Gambier hounds.
Has this ever been equalled ? At Mount
Morgan meeting t’other day gelding Kinetoscope gathered
in four events in as many hours, and from fields of fair
quality. Kinetoscope belongs to Mr. C. H. Humphrey,
who got him for £9. He is a well-proportioned nag, bred at
Waverley station by Richard, from Kaleidoscope. Kine-
toscope finished the day without turning a hair.
* * * *
First test began Thursday, with fine weather
and England batting. Cables announced 3 for 35, 3 for
69, then 9 for 376 and innings closed. Trumble, Carter,
and Saunders were the Australian absentees, Saunders
being reported in bed, suffering from throat trouble.
Personnel of the British indicated something exceptional
in batting, as ten of them are always liable to make cen-
turies against the best of bowling, and the eleventh
(Rhodes) had a century in first-class cricket to his credit.
Principal scorers were Tyldesley (138), Jackson (53), and
Lockwood (not out, 52). Jackson hadn’t previously been
heard from since meeting the ’99 Australian team, when
he scored 118 in one of the tests, and with Hayward
contributed 185 for the first wicket. Grace predicted
months back that Australia would find Hirst’s, Rhodes’,
and Lockwood’s bowling much more difficult than
Blythe’s, Gunn’s, and Braund’s, and this panned out
right as far as Hirst and Rhodes were concerned, for, on
a wet wicket, they literally mowed the Australians down
for 36, Rhodes getting 7 for 17 and Hirst 3 for 15. Fol-
lowing on, Australia lost 2 for 46, and then the game had
to be drawn.
* * * «
Safe to predict that the All England team for
the fifth Test-Match this season will be considerably
different from the eleven selected last week, of whom every
man, bar Braund, the Uncertain, had been previously tried
in England. Fry, for instance, is likely to be dropped
out on account of his nerve, which fails him “ on the
pinch,” as a rule. Fry batted eight times against the
Australians in the ’99 Tests, and his scores were 60, 9, 13,
4, 38, 9,1, and 60. This time the tall athlete led off with
a “ duck.’ Lilley seems to have lost his steadiness, Lock-
wood has only occasional flashes of ‘ form,’ and Jessop
will probaoly not be chosen when the wicket is fast.
One thing is certain. If all the Test-teams are going to
be as old as the eleven who played last week, English
cricket has stagnated.
• • • •
The luck of it. Maclaren has skippered 13
English test-match teams, and called the right thing in
the toss 10 times.
* m • *
Australians first innings’ compilation in recent
Test-match is the lowest recorded in any like engagement
here or “ down under.” Previous smallest was Australia’s
42 in Feb., ’7B, at Sydney, and Australia’s 44 at the Oval
(London) in ’96. England’s 45 at Sydney, Jan. ’B7, follows
close. Until this latest collapse Sydney Cricket Ground
owned the reputation of having witnessed highest and
lowest totals in Test-matches ; former was Australia’s 586
in Dec. ’94, when Gregory made 201. Gregory, Darling,
and Jones helped to build up the biggest total, and they
are also in the eleven that scored the smallest.
• • • *
Latest was the sixty-second test-match since
their initiation. First occurred in Melbourne in ’77, when
Australia won by 45. Then old-timer “ Charlie ” Banner-
man made his often-referred-to 169 (retired),.
* * • •
Australia-Marylebone C.C. match at Lords,
London, opened Monday, when English side notched 240,
which was good in face of the fact that—so far as could
be gathered from the cables—the wicket was drying all
aay after recent rains. Second day’s play saw Australia,
under improved conditions, tot up 271. M. 0.0. followed
with 8 for 280, and declared the innings closed. Game
ended in a draw when only three visitors were out for 217,
which left them having 7 wickets to get the necessary 33.
Old man W. G. Grace shaped well, accumulating 29
and 23 respectively. Best batting was Trumper’s
105 and 86; but W. G. was a cricketer 20 years before
Trumper first reached for his feeding-bottle. Grace took
five Australian wickets for 29 runs in their initial
innings. Trumper’s century this match was nis third
since reaching England ; others were against Surrey and
Oxford ’Varsity. So far five indhidual hundreds have
been hit up by Australians. Darling made 128 against
Notts, and Hill 104 in opposition to Essex.
• • • •
New England cricketer J. R. Mackay—who on
several occasions has represented country teams against
the metropolis with credit —had an aggregate last season
of 656 runs, average 164. For several seasons Mackay has
proved himself the best batsman in the Northern (N.S.W.)
district, but, like many other sterling players, he
has had no chance in representative cricket held
out to him. Sydney city selectors seem to forget that
the country turned out some of the best State reps, in
the past—Howell, M‘Kibbin, Turner, and a score of
others.
• • * •
Once again the chopping record reverts to Tas-
mania, Victorian Bryan’s time for a two-foot log (3min.
68isec.) having been beaten by 22Jsec. by Phil. Helm, of
the Huon, in a £lOO match against Geo. Harris, of Port
Arthur. The contest happened at Hobart and was very
close. Harris is not satisfied, and demands another go—
for which Helm’s friends are not burningly anxious.
Helm (who lowered the world’s record) got through his
2ft. log in 3min. 36sec., and struck 165 blows. The axe-
man’s stroke is thus shown to be about 47 to the minute.
* • * *
Holder Harry Pearce and Jack Pearn wrestled
a second time for the supremacy of Westralia at Perth
recently, Pearn being far from satisfied with previous
contest. Both men were in splendid fettle, and the tussle
is said to have been the finest seen in Westralia. It was
six exciting minutes before Pearce secured the first fall
through a half-Nelson. Second bout was mostly on the
mat, where first one and then the other got uppermost,
till Pearn brought t’other over with a full-Nelson after
smin. Pearn’s head-spins were startling. Once Pearce
went within an ace of scoring with a hammerlock, but
missed, only to come again and do the trick per medium
of a half-Nelson and hammerlock combined. Pearn forced
hard in the fourth, but, though the stronger, didn’t think
hard enough, and eventually Pearce secured a full-Nelson,
and hammerlocking his man worked him over in 4Jmin.
This fall was decisive, and Pearce arose to talk about
“ taking on ” Sandow. But Sandow isn’t a wrestler —he’s
too muscle-bound.
» » * *
Tas. pugdom was treated to that modern rarity,
a genuine slugging match, by bruisers Archer, of Ballarat,
and the local sure-comer James, for supremacy of the
island. The mill occurred at Queenstown before a
packed “house.” Archer—lighter in every way—was
second best right through, but it took tons of stoush to
smash him. James often had the Ballarat man on his
knees taking “ time,” but he was always perpendicular
inside the limit ready for another dose, until a mighty
smite in the thirteenth round dropped him utterly.
James didn’t come away scatheless, but though he
resembled a spotted dog, Archer’s thumps were not as
heavily charged as his own. Winner, who comes from
Longford (Tas.) has not been licked so far, and wants a
“ cut ” at the best Sydney or Melbourne can produce,
which desire will probably be gratified early, as there are
heaps of pugs, waiting for jobs. As Dr. Kennedy, of
Zeehan, certifies that no sounder man organically than
James ever submitted himself for examination, given grit
and skill, there are possibilities that Australia has pro-
duced another genuine heavy champion.
• • • •
Huge crowd that paid high prices to see J ack
McGowan and Bob Frazer slog each other at Melbourne
Lyceum last week proves that interest in the pug. game
is as keen as ever when men above the “ gutter bully ”
grade are brought together. ’Twas among the toughest
fist-fights seen in that State for years. Frazer owned the
greater amount of poundage, was longer reached, and
stood well over the dwarfed giant opposite, and led
in the first eight rounds of the stipulated 20.
McGowan got one on the jaw that sent him prayerfully
postured during the sixth term. During nine and ten
McGowan evened up things and made points level.
Betting promptly altered from 3 to 1 on him to “ evens.”
Amidst white-heat excitement in round 14, while clinched,
McGowan got a paralyser in, spread-eagling his man for
9 seconds, and bringing roars of disapproval from the
thronged hall. Referee Basto couldn’t separate the pair
at the end of the twentieth round, and ordered two more,
which were reeled off at a fierce clip. The first of these
saw McGowan do best, and the next would have been his,
too, but for another punch while holding, which forced
the verdict against him, whereat chaos reigned. Roughs
rushed the ropes bent upon “ dealing wid ” the referee —
an old-time successful trainer and second of pugs, being
in the van, and, but for Jack McGowan himself and his
mentor, Stokesbury’s, timely and determined intervention,
serious trouble might have resulted. Looked at after-
wards, McGowan exhibited many blotches and grazes
while Frazer sported few or none.
* * * •
First table-tennis championship finished at
N.S.W. Sports Club, Saturday last, saw H. Elliott
triumph. He is a dashing player, accurate with the
fastest “ drives” and “ smashes ” in a manner that would
send a gallery mad ; shifting to either side of the table
and picking up edge-skimmers with wonderful precision,
and moving yards from the end to take fast deliveries or
returns. His opponents (D. C. Ward and C. K. Robert-
son) in the semi-final and final, put up a great showing-
former being something after Elliott’s own style—but
Elliott gave neither a hope, and gathered in the pot—2o-
- and 20-12. Table-tennis craze has a tight hold of
Sydney, and some richly-endowed tourneys are talked of.
Sydney first-grade Rugby football competition,
Saturday, - was interesting. ’Varsity only had one point
(9 —8) better than Balmain, and Newtown squelched
Western Suburbs by 2 (10—8). Norths accounted for
Souths (Sydney)—their first success this season—(l4-
nil). Glebe distanced Eastern Suburbs with 22 to 3,
though the win wasn’t really so very soft, for throughout
the first half Glebe had a heap the worse through E.S.’s
good judgment. Subsequently Glebe opened the game
up and improved much in consequence.
* * • *
Annual amateur billiard supremacy of the State
started at N.S.W. Sports Club, Sydney, on Monday. The
seven entries were much below last years, when H. Rum-
ball succeeded. American and “knock out” systems are
obtaining. “Mai” Spencer and S. L. Cooke were the
first pair. Nervousness, tight pockets of the “ Standard ”
table, and new cloth apparently hampered both, with
the result that very poor play was shown. Ultimately
Spencer won, 500 to 265. Best breaks were Spencer's 34,
31 twice. Cooke never got beyond 26.
* * » »
Blarneystone—Miss Reveller puppy, Miss Blar-
neystone, winner of Tas. St. Leger from 31 others, is
tough, for, atop of that success, she subsequently
gathered in Belle Vue Stakes (19 all ages), which necessi-
tated winning four courses after a particularly gruelling
bye in the first round. Miss Blarneystone is little sister
to “ The Ensign. Her sire is a Livingstone-Honeysuckle
dog.
9 * « *
A well-known Australian cyclist lately ’had an
eye blown out by the bursting of a seltzogene. A photo,
of his was on the mantelpiece behind him at the time,
and the same eye of the photo, also had a hole blown
through it.
* * * *
Nominations for the great Dunlop road-race
from Warrnambool to Melbourne, 165 miles, will be
received by the Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co., 108 Flinders-
street, Melbourne, up to 5. 30. p.m., Thursday 31st. Juljf.
The total prizes amount to £l6O ; the first being a cheque
for £3O, and a gold medal valued at £5 ss. from the
Dunlop Tyre Co.*
• • • •
“ A capital home exercise for peds” (writes The
Bulletin’s London correspondent) “ has been invented
by W. G. George, the well-known runner. He calls it the
* 100 up,’ and attributes his own record-breaking successes
to it. You can use it in a 6ft. floor space, and there is no
necessity to strip. With chalk or pencil draw on the floor
two parallel lines 18in. long and eight apart. Place a foot
flat on each line, then raise a knee level with the hip 20
or 30 times ; ditto the other leg. When expert at this,
balance slightly forward on the ball of the foot, heels up,
and arms held as in running. Now raise the knee to hip
line and return to ball of toe 20 times. As an indoor
exercise for sprinters the ‘ 100 up ’ is perfect.”
* * * *
Novice handicap at Horseshoe Grounds, Kal-
goorlie, recently supplied a beautiful case of “ ringing-
in.” “T. Parker” appropriated one heat in a walk
almost, and thus brought suspicion his way. Judge and
promoter “ carpeted” him, and expressed doubt as to the
genuineness of his moustache, which looked “peculiar,”
and asked for permission to feel the adornment.
“ Parker ” acquiesced on condition that they didn’t pull
it, but the “ feeling ” proved heavy enough to drag one
half away, which brought out a “clean breast,” and
revealed “Parker” as a whilom champion who left a
lasting impression at Coolgardie five years ago, and who
was at the time of his exposure supposed to be in Stawell
(Vic.).
A Brisbane Woman’s Message.
Mrs. Jew states clearly what she tuejins in a
few woi'ds. She writes:—“For -vears I
have suffered from a sluggish liver, accompanied
at times by severe pains in my chest and
shoulders. These pains not only caused me
intense suffering, but they often kept me from
doing my household work, and confined me_ to
bed. No medicine gave me permanent relief,
and many failures made me despondent, so
when I tried Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills I
had little hope that they would give me any
great relief; but I can assure you that one
bottle made me feel a different woman. I find
they are a very good pill, acting mildly and
searchingly, benefiting the whole system ; and
I can recommend them to anybody needing such
a medicine. You may make what use you like of
this letter.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are
a perfect blood purifier, and a positive cure for
biliousness, indigestion, constipation, headaches,
sallow complexion, liver and kidney troubles,
piles, pimples, boils and blotches, and for female
ailments. Sold by chemists and storekeepers,
Is. per bottle, or six bottle 6s. 6d. Packed
in amber bottles, and the full name blown
thereon.


BUTTER BY POST .
A boon, to residents of the back country, where butter is scarce or
unobtainable. Parcels containing from 21bs. to lOlbs. of our CELEBRATED
“ GOLDEN STAR ” BUTTER despatched regularly, packed in special card-
board boxes, at SYDNEY RETAIL RATES, plus postage. Remittance should
accompany order. Ask for a catalogue of our other HOME NECESSARIES
THE N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., Ltd., SYDNEY.
YOU CANNOT BUY /
BETTER ANYWHERE!
SPORTING MATERIAL—
Canada’s Best Lacrosse Racket, “ The Mcßriety ” ;
Baseballs, Bats, and Gloves; our Stock of Boxing
Gloves is the Finest in Sydney; Golf, Tennis, and
every other Requisite. -
OUR STOCK OF--..
tyASSEY - HARRIS BICYCLES
(FOR LADIES and GENTLEMEN)
Is worthy of every Buyer’s inspection. The beautiful designs, quality of material, and
the Special Purchasing Terms are such that it is foolish to miss the opportunities offered.
A Special Lot of Second-Hand Bicycles from £4.
Massey-Harris Bicycle Depot: 357 George StSydney .
Branches—Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth.
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER. .. .
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DUFY COMFESTITIOW.
WINES **•' Bat °" lv SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Sydney took the declaration of peace with
marvellous stolidity, as though the crowd by some
miracle of intuition had comprehended the hollow-
ness of this patehed-up compact to “save the
face ” of the King at his crowning, and had seen
that there was no more real peace in S’Africa, now
or for many a year to come, than in Finland or
Poland after its partition. • Not a procession, not
a band, not a bonfire, not an illuminated house,
not a flag, not any extraordinary drunkenness,
not a trace of Mafficking ! -
The eye of the Sydney poacher has turned
upon the temptingly tame ducks in the Centennial
Park lagoons. They are used to being fed, and a
bit of dough with a hook in it looks as good as ona
without. So far, the thieves have had good
hauls.
Mr. L. I. Flegeltaub, who has opened a new
Jewellers’ and Watchmakers’ Shop at 96, King-street,
Sydney, is advertising in our columns solid silver double
case Lever Watches for 21s.*
E. W. O’Sullivan, having in controversy
with Bruce Smith on the day-labor-arid-extrava-
gance question unwittingly imputed to him
corruption—or something very close to it—has
had to apologise publicly. Bruce Smith isa hope-
less Tory, but his personal honesty has always
been conspicuous.
A boon to the bald—whether only thinnish
in the thatch or as bare as a billiard-ball—is
Richards’ Capilla Hair-Tonic, which has already
made hosts of Australians rejoice that they did
not class this splendid restorer with the numerous
nostrums that glibly profess to be able to do what
Capilla unquestionably has done, in every case
where.it has had a proper “show.” That’s the
point : A fair trial and no favor. To be had
from all chemists and storekeepers, or from the
agent, 168 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
“ SHARPSHOOTING
For Sport and War.”
ħ
By W. W. GREENER.
Hits the Mark!
1/- NETT.
It you wish to know how to guard the
Empire—if you are one of those who will
rally round the old flag—read this book.
It teaches all about Rifles and Rifle-
Shooting, how to aim and make allowance,
&c., and it contains chapters on Ranges
and Rifle Clubs, with a history of the part
played by the Armed Civilian in the past.
The Best Shilling’s Worth Ever Published !
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, for 1/- nett.
Of all Booksellers, or C. W. Buckland, Agent
for W. W. Greener, 317 Collins St., Melb.
TT'OR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
-E ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King- Street Coffee Palace,” “WS
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. IF. ELLIS.
y
fiKtt
mm
ALWAYS
RIDE
DUIMLOPS!
THEY HAVE PROVED
GOOD BY EXPERIENCE.
ROADSTER
Duniop Tyres
Are ALWAYS RELIABLE.
Are GUARANTEED.
Are SAFE and SPEEDY.
Are The finest-wearing' Tyres
obtainable.
Are
Only Genuine when
the Cover and Tube
bear this
h
ARTISTIC \
BOOKLETJ
®*~Trade Mark
Gratis upon application.
Racing Cyclists
Are invited to send for Prize and
Condition Card of the Dunlop
Road Race from Warrnambool
to Melbourne (165 miles), to be
held on Saturday, August 30th.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Go.
of Aus. Ltd.
108 FLINDERS-ST., MELBOURNE.
And 160 GLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY. Also at Adelaide,
Brisbane, Perth, Christchurch (N.Z.).
At Poverty Point.
“ Adelaide ” : Now that Nellie Stewart has gone in for
drama, is there any reason why she should stop? What
a Berenice she would make in “ The Sign of the Cross ! ”
Or a Cleopatra if she cared to tackle Shakespeare !
, ...
A certain theatrical manager has a leadin B ladj i, nho is
of the pale, fragile and intense type, and when he found
that audiences eyed her with more sympathy than a
plumper heroine could hope for, he fixed her remaining
span of life aklO months. It is some time now since she
began to die of fade-away on the word of th j manager,
but her sad poetic end gets no nearer. He drops his
voice to a funereal whisper as he tells his patrons that he
engaged the brave girl for 10 months only, because the
doctors wouldn’t give her another day to live. “ She is
fading away like a flower.” Young men adorers come to
him and suggest that the case may be curable after all,
but he says “No—she is Doomed—another 10 months and
f;fj e n—well, her one hope now is that she will die upon
the stage.” Then he blows his nose expressively and the
inquirers shed tears. One of these days, perhaps, it will
be advisable to have a funeral of the fair one prior to
reproducing her as her own Sorrowing (and consumptive)
sister.
Kyrle Bellew, the Beautiful, to a London interviewer :
“I have played love-scenes for nearly 20 years, and,
during this time, I have never kissed a woman on the
stage in my life.” That’s pretty bad English, but the
moral is alfright. It’s always wisest to wait till you get
’em in the wings. By the way, Kyrle must have been
making hits. He lately gave 1500dOl. for a bull bitch.
The Bulletin s dramatic critic reckons that he will die
happy after he has seen George Laun play Macbeth.
Nance O’Neil is said to be going to do a season at
London Lyceum in Aug., or thereabouts.
, ... , no .
R.A.K. : In the Alfred Pluinpton article (26/4, 02),
writer omits to mention that “ Monsieur Brussels, as
Alfred was called in his later Me bourne days, had been
one of the numerous husbands of lima di Murska.
“ This melodramatic mixture of inconsequent history,
gilt archeology, and violently sensational, semi-blasphe-
mous religion.” — London St. James s, on Ben Hur.
ten Hur ” and “ The Sign,” and the rest of them are
all wiped out by the latest Parisian novelty. It is simply
the Passion on a theatre-stage, and advertised as a Lenten
attraction. It is all there, all that the rest have been
content to hint at. Judas soliloquising: “A kind
master ; but he was poor. If he had been rich, how I
could have loved him ! ” And again in delirium, foaming
at the mouth and screaming: “Oh, for one kiss of the
cool lips of the Saviour ! ” The awful trial scene in detail,
The carrying of the Cross and the fall under its weight.
Finally, Calvary, in detail too, with the dicing soldiers
and the suspended victim. “ Now and again there was a
twitch in His body and a parched movement of the lips ;
then a weary shudder and a glance Heavenwards. From
time to time the head rolled and the muscles contracted,
as though to ease the pain. When at last came the words
‘Eloi, eloi, lama sabacthani?’ the tension was too great,
even on the hardest.”
“T.D." : The Marshall-Hall maidens are gushing already
over the “successes” of Misses Marguerite Henderson
and Kate Samuells in London and Aix-la-Chapelle respec-
tivelv. The former had a voice which could stand any
amount of rough usage, but the time to crow has not yet
arrived. Albani and others of the world’s finest singers
have of late commented on the paucity of front-rank
voices, which they unitedly attribute to the rush to do
Warner, instead of first mastering the soft Italian style (the
one°without the vibrato abomination). No world-famous
singer of the present day has been trained in Germany on
the modern Wagnerian lines, and for that matter the
Pattis and Jenny Linds of aforetime were all Italian in
method. One or two frauleins are occasionally heard in
London during the opera season, but never outside
Wagner’s music, for the all-sufficient reason that the
singers of other nationalities will not impose the strain
on their voices on any account. A voice inured to the
German production should be strong enough to endure
anv racket for a few years, but, unfortunately, the
majority do not get inured, but spoilt.
Bernard Espinasse gets some very candid London
notices for his curtain-raiser played by Mrs. Langtry’s co.
The Standard’s faint praise of “rather a powerful little
play ” seems the best notice available.
Mother Church was bound to have a cut at the Castle 8
profits, one way or another, and pushing Father Robinson
managed after all to make the little lady a source of
benefit to his Camberwell church by getting her out last
week to “ assist ” at a bazaar- many people being lured
by the artfully-worded advt. to go out on the supposition
that she was to sing. They were entertained, instead, by
songs from sister Dolly, who is being rushed into this
sort of thing in defiance of the strict injunctions of
trainer Parkinson, that she should hold back for a while
to get thoroughly over a pronounced vibrato developed
] 3V ear ly forcing, and also to surmount certain breathing
ciifiieulcies. Dolly’s'voice is big and ringing, but it will
time enough two or three years hence to bring her to
fc he front,
Wybert Reeve lately contributed to a Melb. weekly a
doleful account of the condition of the English stage,
No good plays, no artistic acting, and Shakespeare im-
possible of presentation. Not more than half-a-dozen
legitimate and responsible managers, the people who own
theatres or rent them being mostly syndicates and low-
down adventurers. The veteran is naturally a praiser of
past times, but his dictum that the Australian stage is
little behind that of the old country is not far out,
especially if one cannot admire Irving or enthuse over
Ellen Terry.
“ Much Ado About Nothing,” at Melb. Her Majesty’s,
recalls that it is 10 years ago last Boxing Night since' the
cheerful old comedy was produced in Melbourne by B.
and B. It ran then for 7 weeks at the Bijou, because it
was new to most people, and now, after the lapse of a
decade, “ Much Ado ” would have another run of good
business if it were smartly staged and acted as then,
Titheradge played Benedick to Mrs. Brough’s Beatrice.
Emma Temple was Hero, with Hilda Spong and prettv
E m ma Gwynne as her attendants. George Anson and
Tom Oannam were Dogberry and Verges, and Brough,
Sass, Lyndal and Cecil Ward took partin the production.
Ward, who played the love-sick Claudio, was at that time
about to make his successful venture in matrimony, and
fh e character gave him an opportunity to gaze with
becoming ardor at his fianc6e, seated behind the curtain
of the private box, as he said: “Time goes on crutches
tin Jove have all his rites.”
“Haresfoot”: Taking up last London Athenaeum, I
am startled bv an announcement of the suicide of Mrs,
Hermann Vezin, aged 74. She threw herself from a whi-
dow at Margate in a fit of depression—-it is supposed
through the death of her daughter last year. When I
last heard of Mrs. Vezin, a couple of years ago, she was
living in Highgate. I have seen it in print that she
married Chas. Young when she was only 18. Anyhow,
they came over to Melbourne from Launceston with
Coppin and co., in the schooner Swan, and opened at the
Queen’s Theatre 57 years ago. The play was the “Lady
of Lyons.” Claude Melnotte, O. Young'; Glavis, Coppin ;
Beauseant, Thomson. Mrs. Young did not act at that
time, but only danced between the pieces. She was a
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Thomson, both in Coppin’s co.
Her sister afterwards became Mrs. C. Jones, a great Syd-
ney favorite, when she divided the suffrages with Mrs.
Guerin, Miss Nellie Stewart’s mother. Mrs. C. Young was
slow in developing histrionic ability. She acted Emilia,
in “ Othello,” for Brooke’s first Melb. appearance. Her
powers were thought to be far below those of Fanny Cath-
cart, and yet they were greater. She formed a correct
opinion that Australia did not properly appreciate her.
Messrs. Brooke and Coppin both fell into the error. So
? *^ rs ' Young went to England. Her success in
.ndon was instantaneous, opening at Sadler’s Wells,
II 1 , Phelps, when she acted Julia in the “ Hunchback.”
|J e l en laucit and I army Kemble having retired, Mrs.
* oung was long recognised as the next Shakesperian
actress to Mrs. C. Kean. Having obtained a divorce from
°ung, she married Vezin, in 1863.
Mrs. Brown-Potter is now playing Calypso in “ Ulysses,’
and is said to be in appearance the ideal Calypso. “ Her
sinuous grace, her languorous poses, her daring revela-
tions of rounded limbs and insinuating body, whose lines
are emphasised by a clinging white robe, yet subtly
hidden by a flowing train, are characteristic of Circe, on
whom rather than on Calypso Mr. Stephen Phillips has"
moulded the goddess.” But it is complained that the
tongue of the beautiful charmer is not up to the level of
the body, and she “ plays strange pranks with the verse,
and gives no idea of the emotion of the character.”
English music-halls, mostly run by limited co’s, pay
tremendous divs. The biggest of them all, London
Empire, pays 2s. on each 10s. share every half-year—4o
per cent, per annum.
Marie Lloyd’s latest cerulean song is all about an im-
pecunious damsel who suddenly burst forth in sealskin
and fine linen, and “ never told her mother how she did
it." One of Marie’s critics—they are getting to be very
critical towards Marie nowadays—suggests that she
might have given a turn of wholesome satire to the song
by explaining in the last verse that the girl made her
money by appearing at the ’alls as a “ serio-comic.”
Gwenn, the light “ broad ” comedian of the Janet Wal-
dorf co., resembles Elton in his general appearance and
way of acting. The fault one would And with his per-
formance of Touchstone was its up-to-dateness. The
Clown didn’t seem to belong to the same period as the
melancholy Jacques, or the exiled Dook, or old Adam.
He recalled Elton’s Jester, in Gilbert’s serio-comic
“Yeomen of the Guard’’-—the Jester who ventured to
ask of his master, the Archbishop of Canterbury, a harm-
less conundrum : “ What is the difference between your
Grace and Jack Point?” “His Grace was pleased to
give it up,” said the professional humorist, “so I told
him that whereas the Archbishop of Canterbury was paid
£lO,OOO a year for being good, poor Jack Point was good
—for nothing.”
A recent London criticism of Mark Hambourg urges the
young man to put restraint on his “ virtuosity ” and show
more consideration for the feelings of the composer if he
wants to take his place immediately “ amongst truly
great pianists.”
In the names Rosie Foote, Connie Wediss, Ada Leeve,
and Marie Storm, four of the pretty Cook’s Tourists in
“A Runaway Girl,” one recognises easy copies of Rosie
Boote (now Countess of Hereford) Connie W. Ediss, Ada
Reeve, and Marie Tempest, all of whom have been under
the flag of George Edwards, the “Gaiety” entrepreneur.
The manufacture of names for Australian chorus ladies is
a very primitive art.
The two most marketable commodities in this world
are a new sin and a new sensation. The latest ’Murkan
addition to the latter catalogue is a species of switchback
railway, in which special provision is made by side-rails
to keep the car from jumping. Also, the passengers lie
on soft couches, and shoot downhill, head-downwards, at
a rate of 95 miles per hour. Then the down-grade ends,
and the car dives upwards at 60 miles an hour. This is
the latest American sensation. Tub Bulletin being a
respectable family journal, the latest American sin is
consigned to the waste-paper basket.
“ Snell ” : How marked is the American type as we see
it on the variety stage in Melbourne and in photos, of
theatrical people in American prints ! Not a bit like the
American of the untutored imagination, and as far from
the Red Indian sample as you could get in a century’s
journey. Small of stature, fleshy in the face, and square
in the jaw, it strikes me as a predomination of the Dutch
phiz. In the American composite photo, the Dutch con-
figuration becomes conspicuous. Take the American
stage girl. Patrice, the damsel who wore the pants in
Conor’s burlesque co., is a striking example, and just
that kind of girl would appear to be as usual in America
as “ I guess.” We have nothing quite like it here. The
men of the recent companies have such striking pecu-
liarities of build and features that you can pick them out
of a crowd on sight. There is.less difference between a
Frenchman or a German and an Englishman than between
an American and an Englishman when you break through
the upper-crust and take your samples from the masses.
Should an actor “ feel ” ? Diderot: “In the complete
absence of sensibility is the possibility of a fine actor.”
Ooquelin : “To move, you must not be moved.” Irving:
“The actor must have some emotion, or tendency to
emotion, but he must keep it in hand.” Perhaps it would
be most truthfully said that emotional stage artists must
have the power of deceiving themselves into taking them-
selves seriously when they are performing, like the suc-
cessful orator or the persuasive bagman. Many commer-
cial travellers are sincere actors.


“ She was rattling her trotters in a dance-
room when I twigged her ” said the complainant
in a recent Melbourne bigamy case. When the
lady left off rattling her trotters he procured an
introduction, and was “fair shook” on her.
After a short acquaintanee, in the course of which
he learned that she was a widow with two
children, he urged her to “hook on,” and she
hooked. The event took place at a matrimonial
agency. Later he discovered that she was not a
widow, and that the two children were illegiti-
mate, but still his affection for the lady who
rattled her trotters doesn’t seem to have wholly
faded. He went to Westralia, and came back in
a few months with much money, which he de-
scribed as “plasters,” the results of the sale of a
reef._ Then he was informed his wife’s trotters had
carried her away with another man, and that she
had unlawfully married him, and the husband
informed the police, and a pursuit started. It
was a long chase. The lady was nearly captured
at a dance at Prahran, where she was once more
rattling her trotters, hut she fled in time. Finally,
she was found in domestic service in a far-out
suburb, and as she repudiated her legal owner
with scorn (which, he told the Court, he couldn’t
understand, he being far from a loathsome bloke
in appearance), she was run in. At time of writ-
ing the case had not been properly investigated,
but the above is plaintiff’s story as related on his
colonial oath to the Melbourne press, and corro-
borated in some minor particulars by the detective
who pursued the fast-trotting young lady. The
other man doesn’t appear in the story, save as a
rumor, but he was known as “ Snowy,” and seems
also to have been a “bloke.” In fact, an atmos-
phere of bloke pervades the whole narrative.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue *
Cheapest House in Australia for EDISON
Phonographs Records
“BlJOU,”i,with 6 Records .. £llO 0
EDISON “STANDARD,” with 12 Records .. 610 0
EDISON “.HOME,” with 24 Records .. .. 810 0
COMBINATION A 1 “GRAND,” taking both
Large and Small Records, with 12 Records, 6
Concert (sin.) Records and Large Horn ~ 10 10 0
EDISON RECORDS, English and American,
per dozen 100
CONCERT (sin.) RECORDS, per dozen.. ..300
Send for Splendid New
Illustrated Catalogue
containing 5000 Selec-
tions to choose from.
Electric Fans, with Bat-
tery, £5 ; Electric Bike
Lamps, 21s ; Flash
Lights, Scarf Pin Lights,
10s 6d; Vapour Bath
Cabinets, 20s ; &c., Free.
Records can be posted
to any address.
Machines carefully
packed and forwarded
to any part of Austra-
lasia.
r\
REEVES & CO.,
KING WILLIAM ST., ADELAIDE
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
GIVEN AWAY T 0 A S ETISE
ĥ
OSTRICH TIPS
THIS NEW
Fashionable Mount.
TWO TIPS WITH
OSPREYS.
In Black, White, Cream, or
Black tipped with White.
Write To-day.
3/-
THE BUNCH.
POST FREE.
Send Postal Notes with exchange.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bourke & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Mention Thf, Bulletin.
a
EVERY MAN
SUFFERING from DEBILITY and WEAKNESS should
s nd for a valuable Pamphlet explaining how all
Nervous and Organic Derangements may be success-
fully treated without stomach medication. The method
is easy and pleasant, and will effect a perfect and per-
manent cure. Sent in a plain sealed envelope free of
charge. E. NORTON, 59&60 Chancery Lane, London,
m Eng. Over 30 years’ continuous success.
LADIES
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address—L.D.l., 300 Col ins St M Melbourne
SLATERS
DETECTIVES.
1 BAS INCH ALL S\ n EC
ACKNOWLEDGED by both the Press and
the Public to be the Finest Organisation
of Male and Female Detective Talent in the
World for Private Inquiries. Representatives in
every town on earth. Consultations free.
HENRY SLATER, Manager,
1 Basinghall-street, London, England,
Cables, “ Distance,” London.
RUPTURE CURED
1
0
without
operation or pain,
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. 10. Address:
I SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C S., ENG.,
Cor Russell a Collins Sts.,
Throw away
your Truss.
MELBOURNE
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCI€TY OF N.S.W. <
<
Grand Coronation BALL <
X — \ l
Towo Hall, Sydi)«y | v Thursday, June 26,1902 |
TICKETS : Gentlemen - - - 15 s. Gallery, 3s. ( including <
Ladies - - - - 12 s. 6d. Refreshments). (
Lady and Gentleman (Double) 255. F. webster, Secretary.
Visitors to the old country:
BAILEYS
GLOUCESTER ROAD,
SOUTH KE/SSIfmTOfL
uonDonsw.
THE NEW LOUNGE.
Under Royal Patronage *
HOTEL
ħ
One of the FINEST examples
of modern OAK CARVING extant
Self-contained Suites .
Public Rooms opening on to
PLEASANT PRIVATE GARDEN.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON.
h
nt
ĥ
Si. 6d., to lOi. 6d. e«cti.
W. H. WIG2ELL,
110 William Sweet.
SYDNEY.
( 20 inches long, ss. 6d.; 20 inches, extern thick, 7e. 6d|
*22 inches, 10s. 6d-; 22 ioohes. extern thick, 12s. 6dJ
24 inches, 15s. 6d.; 24 inches, extern thick, 18c. 6d.
26 inches, 205.; 26 inches, extra thick, 25*.
28 inches, 305.; 80 inches, 35s '
30 inches, extrs thick. 40s
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as thick ~as
those sold plsewhere for the same money.
HAinWORK DUTY FBICE TO OTRKH OTAI
ħ
h
Warm Woollen Underwear.
LADIES’ and GENTLEMEN’S GARMENTS.
rpHERE is no more Healthy, Comfortable, and Rational
form of material for everybody during: Winter, or for
continual wear for Delicate People and Invalids than
/ERTEX CELLULAR WOOLLEN
which by its construction and relation to the human
body constitutes practically a supplementary skin,
affording the protection of natural warmth while per-
mitting the necessary free evaporation of moisture and
deleterious vapors continually being passed off by the
true skin ; the escape of which is prevented by most other
forms of Underclothing Fabrics by their density and
closeness of texture.
For Children, /ERTEX CELLULAR FABRICS are par-
ti sularly suitable.
To Gentlemen we also specify our
/ERTEX Cellular Lineiufitted Evening Dress Shirts
wearing which, no matter the amount of exertion, no
man will ever experience the discomfort and danger of
that cold chill always in evidence when long cloth, linen,
or Shirts of other fabrics are worn. Also White /ERTEX
Cellular Linen-fitted Shirts for Every-Day Wear.
Sole Agents in State of N.S. Wales—
DAVID BRAHAM and CO.,
73 & 75 King St., Sydney
(OFF GEORGE ST., A.J.S. BANK CORNER).
Call or Write. Price Lists Post Free.
" Missing Friends.
STAHN HEIRS SOUGHT.— KARL EMIL STAHN is dead,
aged 85 years. He was a native of Gratz, Prussian
Posen. His half-sister, Paulina Steinbach, married Henry
Franke, and they went to Australia about 1848, and
settled in some Australian seaport. Their children were
Lydia, Paul, and Karl Franke. Such children, or their
descendants, should write Darwin 0. DeGolia, Esq.,
care Harry Monson, Esq., 27 Mercantile Square, Bangor,
Maine, United States of America, at once, and authorise
him to represent them in the matter of Karl Emil Stahn’s
estate. __
Huston wanted.
Relatives of ROBERT HUSTON,
born County Cavan, Ireland, 75 years ago, should
write immediately to James Broad, Placerville, El Dorado
County, California, for particulars as to inheriting
property.
OBEET MARTIN, late of Union Hotel'
Specimen Hill, Bendigo. Youi Mother is
dead, and a sum of money awaits you. Please
address —
Quick, Hyett, and Rymer,
Solicitors, Bendigo;
or, J. F. Hogan, High-street, Bendigo.
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
LIMITED.
Sib SAMUEL DAVENPORT, L.L.D., K.0.M.G., South Australia.
VICE-PRESIDENTS :
| The Hon. JOHN DOUGLAS, C.M.G., Queensland.
DIRECTORS :
ERNEST BAGGALLAY, J.P., London.
J. A. BAM, Cape Colony.
The Hon. J. F. BURNS, New South Wales.
EDWARD HENRY BUTLER, Tasmania.
The Hon. A. M. CAMPBELL, Natal.
The Hon. THOMAS BRIDSON CRIBB, M.L.A., Queensland.
Sir SAMUEL DAVENPORT, L.L.D., K.C.M.G., South Australia.
C. C. De VILLIERS,-Cape Colony.
Colonel GEORGE FERGUSON, South Australia.
SEYMOUR THORNE GEORGE, New Zealand.
Sir BENJAMIN WESLEY GREENACRE, M.L.A., Natal.
J. B. HARCOURT, New Zealand.
HENRY HENTY, Victoria.
The Hon. Sir ROBERT G. W. HERBERT, G.C.8., D.C.L., L.L.D., J.P., D.L., London.
The Hon. ROBERT JAMESON, M.L.C., Natal.
The Hon. J. F. LEVIEN, M.P., Victoria.
General Manager : LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.I.A.
Assistant General Manager : A. F. CROMBIE.
The Hon. Sir JAMES G-. LEE-STEERE, K.C.M.G., Speaker of the Legislative Assembly,
Western Australia.
The Hon. WILLIAM THORLEY LOTON, M.L.0., Western Australia.
H. BYRON MOORE, Victoria.
The Hon. GEORGE McLEAN, M.L.C., New Zealand.
The Hon. ALBERT NORTON, M.L.C., Queensland.
The Hon. Sir JAMES PRENDERGAST, New Zealand.
The Hon. 0. J. ROBERTS, 0.M.G., M.L.G., New South Wales.
The Hon. Sir GEORGE SHENTON, Kt., President of the Legislative Council, Western
Australia.
BRUCE SMITH, M.H.R., New South Wales.
LUDWIG WIENER, Cape Colony.
HERBERT WILMAN. Cape Colony.
ARTHUR BONVILLE WERE, J.P., Victoria.
The Hon. AGAR WYNNE, M.L.C., Victoria.
Actuary : JAMES PULLAR, F.F.A.
Consulting Actuary : ROBERT THOMSON, F.I.A.
PROGRESS OF THE SOCIETY, 1873-1901.
FUNDS.
Date.
31st March, 1875
31st March, 1880
31st March, 1885
31st December, 1890
31st December, 1895
31st December, 1901
Amount.
£2,864
£103,551
£471,353
.. £1,196,414
.. £1,923,835
.. £2,595,869
NEW BUSINESS.
Period.
13f years ended 31st December, 1887
14 years ended 31st December, 1901
Sum Assured.
... .£11,481,006
... .£15,345,374
TOTAL NEW BUSINESS SINCE THE COMMENCEMENT
OF THE SOCIETY EXCEEDS
Twenty-six Millions Sterling £26,826,380.
Claims Paid immediately on Proof of Death and Title.
Policies kept in Force out of Surrender Value so long as there is sufficient to pay One Quarterly Premium.
The Society is established throughout on the Federal Principle, and thus secures for its Members the Widest Scope
for Remunerative Investment.
CHIEF OFFICE for NEW SOUTH WALES: 105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary. LESLIE J. PARK, General Manager.


A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
An interesting Franklin relic has just been
lent toG-oulburn (N.S.W.) Technological Museum.
It is a small terrestrial globe, about 3in. in
diameter, which originally belonged to Captain
Gore, third-in-command of Captain Cook’s ex-
pedition. The globe was thus brought Out to
Australia, when Cook “discovered” the well-
known continent; and, passing afterwards into
the possession of Lieut. Gore, of the Franklin
expedition, was by him taken to the Arctic-
regions. There, together with Gore’s telescope
and sword, it was long afterwards recovered by a
search-party. Noteworthy that on this little
globe only the northern, western, and part of
the southern coasts of Australia are outlined.
This extract, from the letter of one
“J.A.H.” in Sydney Telegraph, ought to be
hung up in letters of gold in every Australian
House of Parliament, and read by the Speaker
(instead of prayers) at the opening of business
every day:
There is, however, a deeper cause for men being unem-
ployed in Australia, and that is the exaggerated notions
diligently fostered by influential interests as to the
natural wealth of these colonies. These ideas arose
through the ease with which a comparative handful of
population made a living in days gone by through the
exploitation of the virgin resources of the continent.
But now, however, all this is altered. The population
has greatly increased, but the original riches in pasture,
soil, forest and mines have been largely exhausted. It
appears that over-stocking, drought and rabbits have
ruined much of the sheep country, and only by skill and
outlay of capital can wealth be produced to sustain the
population now here. The position has never been
properly faced by the inhabitants, for they have kept up
the appearance of prosperity for many years by selling
public lands for revenue, and by lavish outlay of borrowed
money.
In other words, as The Bulletin has said a
thousand times already, we want Australia Facing
the Bill —not Australia Facing the Dawn.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest, buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
The date of the Warrnambool to Melbourne
road-race will have to be altered from September 6th
until an earlier date, owing to the Royal Agricultural
Society of Victoria having selected the date named for
their annual show at Flemington. As it would be im-
possible to finish the race at the Haymarket, owing to the
heavy vehicle traffic on the road, it is necessary that some
other date be selected. The Dunlop Tyre 00. have
applied to the League of Victorian Wheelmen for Satur-
day, August 30—a week earlier than the date previously
Axed—and as no other fixtures are down for this day it is
more than likely that the application of the promoters
will be granted. Intending competitors in this famous
long-distance road-event should therefore start getting
into form, as it is now only three months until this classic
road-race is decided.—Later : The L.V.W. have granted
the above date.*
Smoke oh ! nothing like it !—especially
when the pipe and tobacco are obtained from
Mick Simmons, The choicest lot of cigars on the
Australian market are collected in Mick Simmons’
establishments, and are being sold at prices which
defy competition. *
From a letter dated from Capetown, April
23rd:—
Things were a hit merry in town a few days ago, when
about 1500 Australians came down from the front, and
were awaiting a transport to take them home. One night
in particular they got on the drunk, played up and
knocked the police about properly. They went into one
hotel, called the “ Standard Bar,” and simply wrecked it
—broke every glass and bottle in the house, because the
barman (whom they nearly killed) happened to make
some unfortunate little remark anent Botany Bay. The
hotel was closed for repairs for a few days, and now
there are two soldiers with fixed bayonets guarding the
front door—no Australian uniform being allowed in.
Rumor hath it, that the Australians are to have a special
bar attached to their medals, on which will be inscribed
the legend “ Standard Bar.”
On top of this comes news of the heroes’ per-
formances at Albany. i
THE PUBLIC
DON’T KNOW
IS THE PET IDEA 1
(i
%
mr
m
15
S'
V
Under which a great many so-called Electric Belts and Rejuvenators have been sold. Articles
possessing no merit whatever have been foisted upon the credulous public, with the consequences
that they are becoming gradually acquainted with at least the methods of people who do business
under this head, but the knowledge so gained causes them to be sceptical in regard to all new
appliances; hence it is well for them to know just what they should obtain, in order to get a real
and genuine Electric Appliance for medical purposes. The time las now come when people should
cease to waste their money on imitations.
The Public must know, and if we may command a few minutes of their time, we will teach
them just what to demand to get what they want.
If you are interested, and if you are sick, you should interest yourself, the mere request will
cause us to mail you one of our Illustrated Free Books, which will guide you in your search for
health. Our Books are sent, sealed, free, and post-paid to anybody who will take the trouble to
send for one. An hour or two’s good reading if you will simply send.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
Is the Only Genuine Electric Rejuvenator to be had, and does not require any drugs, at an additional
cost, to make you think it is working. It is the only Electric B©l,t in Australasia that-possesses a
Constant, Lasting Electric Current, and it was only after the most exhaustive examination, and _a
practical demo istration, that the highest officials of H.M. Customs Department consented to permit
Our Belt being passed as an Electric Appliance. Others you will find listed as wearing apparel.
If you want on'y a flannel belt, make it yourself and save your money.
When we recommend our Belt, it is a Certain Cure for WEAK KIDNET S, CONSTIPATION, LUMBAGO, RHEUMATISM,
LOCOMOTOR ATAXIA, SCIATICA, BRIGHT’S DISEASE, INSOMNIA, WEAK BACK, or GENERAL RUN-DOWN CONDITION.
SUEDE! IT , DOES.
Your wonderful Belt completely restored me to vigor. I wouldn’t take £5O for it if I couldn t get another.—JNO. KING, Ed' ard-st, Brisbane.
Tlie Belt is worth its weight in gold; it cured me completely. JNO. LITTLE, Camperdown, N.S.W.
The doctors told me I could never go to work again. I got one of your Belts. It cured my Sciatica, and now I feel like a new man.—
WM. OGLESBY, Kegv orth-st, Leichhardt.
A Postage
Stamp
Will bring your request for
one of our Free Books, or
we will b glad to have you
call. Hours, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.
The Dp. McLaughlin Co.,
85 iING-STREET, SYDNEY.
I ruptured a great muscle in my back, and was in terrible pain. Your Belt cured me in
two weeks. My doctor said I wouldn’t get well for months.—ROßEßT VHP ON, Darling-st.
Sydney.
Other so-called Belts had failed me, but Dr. McLaughlin’s cured my lame back that had
troubled me for years.—A. J. GREENLAND, J.P., Launchley, Uralla, N.S.W.
Since using your Belt I have been feeling splendid, I sleep and eat better, and feel re
freshed when I get up.—W. LALYtENCE, Nyngan, N.S.W.
Everybody interested in the present war,
and concerned to know the truth about its origin,
and the manner in which it has been carried on,
should read Methuen’s “ Peace or War in South
Africa,” the best compendium of the subject
printed. Price, 6d. ; post free from Bulletin
office, Bd.
Indigestion
poisons .
THE BLOOD
as surely as a serpent’s bite.
It lessens brain power, lowers
vitality, produces languor,
sleeplessness, nervous depres-
sion, and is the source of
aching heads and weary limbs.
THE KEY TO HEALTH IS
good digestion, and Mother
Seigel’s Curative Syrup gives
that assuredly. "I suffered
from anaemia, nervous debi-
lity and acute dyspepsia,”
says Mrs. E. Wilson, 10,
Little Eiley Street, Sydney,
“ and was treated by two doc-
tors without avail. My health
was thoroughly re-established
by nine bottles of
JA.OTHER
£EIGEL’S
IBP CURATIVE
SYRUP
Marvellous Effects.
YOUR PICTURES IN
SOLID RELIEF.
~ Stereo
Weno
For Stereoscopic Pictures upon
KODAK daylight changing cartridge
Film.
£6 6S. Only.
Price,
Send for new Illustrated List and mention
this paper.
KODAK Limited and Reduced,
284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
AND OF ALL DEALERS.
IN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade — viz., the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
9et. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0. or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, 15ct
gold, filled, Ss. 6d. Illustrated catalogues sent free"
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address—
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA.
FOR ACETYLENE GAS
f
\
“ WE ARE
THE PEOPLE.”
Over 300 of our Reliable
Acetylene Gas Genera*
tore in daily use, and all
giving satisfaction.
We also supply Table,
Portable, Street, and
other Lamps for Acety-
lene Gas and all accesso-
ries.
We carry large stocks of
Carbide of Calcium.
Send for our No. 56
Acetylene Gas Catalogue
Martin’s Advance Acetylene Table Lamp. Price £1 7s. 6d.
James MARTIN & CO.
101 Clarence Street
Nr. King-st., Sydney
Business, Robbery, etc.
Bank officials mustn’t marry in Australia until
they are in receipt of a certain income. The idea is that
the employees must keep up a certain “ style,” for the
credit of the bank, and mustn’t do it by embezzling, so
the luxury of matrimony is forbidden until late in life.
A Sydney bank-clerk who married, recently, without per-
mission, was carpeted before the general manager. “You
treated us badly, Jones,” said the magnate, severely.
“ We can’t allow our officers to live in the slums or have
their wives taking in washing. You know you can’t carry
on upon your salary.” “ But, Mr. Smith, my father-in-
law promised to assist.” “What has he done?” “Nothing,
sir, as yet.” “ Well, by , I’ll make him. I’ll transfer
you on a reduced salary, so that he must either stump up
or you quit the service.”
* * * *
Boarding-house keepers—mostly poor women
who work 16 hours a day for tucker and clothes—suffer
much from the “sloper,” who clears out without paying
his board-bill. In the Westralian mining districts the
mean bilker is particularly common. Wanted, a law
which will put lodging-house keepers on the same plane
as regards debt-recovery as publicans, who can detain
any goods belonging to a lodger as security for the pay-
ment of his account.
* * * •
“J.V.0.”: It would tend to honesty if a fixed
percentage of money lost were allowed to the finder. A
deal of money lost in Australian cities never returns to
the owner, because finders are so often meanly treated.
Close on, £lOO was picked up a few weeks ago, and the
finder, whose appearance indicated a struggle with hard
times, was presented with half-a-crowm Again, a man
left on a ferry-boat £6O in gold. The poor employee who
restored it got half-a-crown. Not even when a reward is
advertised does the advertiser always pay. It would be
better for losers and finders all round if the reward busi-
ness were placed on a fixed basis.
A Stratford (M.L.) bank clerk, who had to
make good a £3O shortage, sued a person whom he alleged
he had overpaid for the amount, and secured judgment,
although defendant swore that he hadn’t received the
over-money.
* * * *
It may interest “ smart ” auctioneers who, to
effect a quick and profitable sale, bestow virtues on a
thing to which it has no claim, to know that they can be
held liable for this exaggeration. An extra-keen auctioneer
in a N.S.W. southern town fell in badly the other day.
In offering a horse he declared it quiet in harness ; but
buyer found his purchase an “ outlaw,” brought it back,
and demanded a refund, which was scornfully refused.
Took proceedings in the local Court, and the P.M.
ordered a‘ refund of the money plus all expenses incurred.
The locajgswp-press must have had a day off as no report
of the proceedings was ever published.
„}■; *„ -• * * *
Tf “ Tattersall ” is finally squelched as a sweep-
promoter, his managers should be able to write up some
spicy of “ Blackmailers we have met.” It would
prove interesting reading for the admirers of papers
(“ respectable ” and otherwise) in more than one Austra-
lian city.
‘ :2; * • * »
Some “smart ” insurance agents who get a big
commission push business all right. When they strike a
good thing that “doesn’t quite see his way” to insure,
they appoint him nub- agent ; the bait is tempting, he is
probably caught, and gets, maybe, 10 or 20 per cent,
back, whilst the agent collects 10 per cent., perhaps
more. Whether any more premiums are paid doesn’t
matter to the agent, and the insured gets a better shade
of odds against his life for 12 months, anyway.
* 1 * * *
“ Calvo ” to The Bulletin :
A good example of ijhe way in which the Americans are
capturingtthe engineering trade of the world is afforded
by the ajsj, of Sydney tramway extensions. The cars
(thoughdja&frflUt in.iSydney) are copied from patterns
importetfwdfmAmerica, and the under-tracks, motors,
controlled brakes, electrical gear, trolley wire, over-head
fasteners, etc., are all American. Almost the whole of
the enormous plant connected with the present scheme
for convejsion from low to high voltage is American.
The solitary exceptions are the underground cables
(British),',’ accumulators (German), and the boilers,
which, although made in England, are supplied
through a U.S. firm. And not only the plant, but
the engineers entrusted with the erection are Yankee.
Visit Ultimo power-house any day and hear the “ guess-
ing” and “cal’clating” and “right here’s,” and the
strange swear-words, and the twang that can be scraped
with a file. Nor is this invasion of British and Australian
territory confined to tramway work only. Five years
ago practically the whole engineering trade of Sydney
was in British hands. Now one branch after another is
being captured by the pushing gentleman with the
goatee and his hat on the back of his head. Print-
ing machinery, electric lights, new mine-working systems
(instance the deep leads of Victoria, the Kalgoorlie power
scheme, Mt. Morgan, and others), electric pumping,
pneumatic tubes, and a dozen others.
And the reason of all this? Simply the Yankees
superior method of doing business—-his tact, his guile, his
obliging manner, his attention to details, his knowledge
of strange drinks, and his gift of lying. Buy anything
from an American firm, and see the trouble they will take
to please you ; send the same order to England, and note
the difference. Writer had a vivid example of this last
month, when two separate shipments of machinery
arrived from these two countries. The Americans sent
proper packing-lists and full directions ; every case—and
there were nearly 500 —was well packed and marked dis-
tinctly, with a card inside detailing the contents, signed
by the packer. Proper plans and shipping papers came
per same mail, and one could start to handle the
machinery with some confidence. How very different
the English shipment! The sole advices consisted of the
bill of lading and the invoices—no packing-list came,
the contents of the cases were not marked either inside
or out, and nearly a fortnight was wasted opening up at
haphazard before the different parts were assembled and
erection could be commenced. The plan arrived after
the machinery was in its place, and consisted of a blue
print of an old and somewhat similar apparatus with the
alterations marked in red ink.
Until Australia becomes an engineering and manufac-
turing centre, all the writer’s future business, robbery,
&c., goes to America. But please don’t give his address
to an inquiring Yank —he loves a quiet life.
v * * •
A few enterprising people in Melbourne, small
magsmen out of harness, have discovered that money is
to be made by identifying stolen property. The idea is
to see that no other claimant turns up for property
“ reasonably supposed to have been stolen,” and then to
put in your own little claim and get off with the loot.
• * • •
Cheek and presence of mind go a long way.
Recently two elegantly-dressed young fellows in rollick-
ing spirits drifted into a Sydney hotel and had whisky,
and one of them dropped a rather dull-sounding half-sov.
on the counter in payment. “ It’s a bad one,” he said,
cheerfully; “just made it by gilding a sprat.” Then
they both laughed hilariously, and the girl laughed and
gave 9s. change. She couldn’t inspect the coin closely after
that for fear of looking like a sour female with no sense
of humor. Going out they said to the landlord with a
cackle of mirth : “ Such a joke, old man ; just passed a
gilt sixpence on your girl for half-a-sovereign.” The
landlord also laughed, in the waj' of business. Later he
found it was a gilt sixpence. Then he didn’t laugh.
* * * *
“ 8.R.” : You ask (3/5/ ! 02) “ Does all Australia
live on the commission racket?” Practically, Yes. Go
into any Australian bush town, and the population mostly
consists of stock, station, produce, tea, whisky, wine,
insurance, bike, softgoods, machinery, &c., agents.
Breast the bar, and the occupants of the seats round the
walls rise as one man and beg of you to try various
brands of “rotgut,” with the inevitable “Book you a
case, sir?” Perhaps a voice will be heard, “Try half-a-
chest of our Li-chang-hang blend ; nothing better for the
money.” Mention above a whisper you have anything to
sell, produce or stock, and life becomes a burden to you.
Even the “ cookies” are going into the commission busi-
ness, and in this line dog eats dog with a vengeance.
Don’t forget the sky-pilots, either—they are merely
agents of Providence, and are prepared to save your very
soul on commission!


Amusements.
JHEATRE ROYAL, BYDN E Y.
Lessee .. .. „ ... Mr. J. a Williamson.
Under the Sole Direction of
MR. GEORGE MUSGROVE.
General Manager ... ~ Mr. T. P. Hudson.
Commencing,
SATURDAY, JUNB 14,
Miss Nellie Stewart,
and
George Musgrove’s NEW ENGLISH COMEDY and
DRAMATIC COMEDY
in
the Most Charming Comedy of the Century,
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY.
An Australian Production.
?nu
m
m
AHAIR-RENEWER, the efficacy of which has never yet been questioned. The Inventor and Proprietor
can be interviewed personally or communicated with by post, and every interest ahd attention will be
given to his Clients. CAPILLA HAIR TONIC is a medicinal preparation which, if regularly used
as a dressing, will not only cure all scalp troubles, but will prevent all risk of disease by contamination. If
the scalp is once made healthy, and the sebaceous or fat-forming glands properly nourished, the Hair instead
of being weak and falling, will become strong and luxuriant.
To say that the testimonials in support of CAPILLA HAIR TONIC are numerous only modestly
describes the appreciation of the public. Letters from local celebrities and well-known professional business
people will be at once submitted to you upon application. I give away no coupons as an inducement to buy
my preparation. It is made up of good and non-injurious ingredients, and it cannot be sold for less than 2/6
or by post from the proprietor, 3/2; inter-State, 3/8. Full course, 17/2 ; inter-State, 19/2. ’
Every Chemist throughout Australasia stocks it. Wholesale from all Sydney Houses •
Billot Bros., Queensland; George Swift, Collins-st., Melbourne; Bickford and Sons
Adelaide, S.A. ; Paulding and Co., Perth, W.A. ’
W. RICHARDS - - Proprietor and Inventor,
CITY BANK CHAMBERS, 164 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
' The most-stolen paper in Australians The
Bulletin, which doesn’t always find its way
through the post. Writes a Melbourne man
“I have three places of call in the city. At each
The Bulletin is subscribed to. Last week, at Jno.
1, I was told the paper had been stolen, h. o. 2,
same ; No. 3, same.”
amusements. .
H E A T R E ROYAU, S Y D N E Y.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
LAST 0 NIGHTS of the Season of J. 0. Williamson’s
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
LAST 6 NIGHTS of
A RUNAWAY GIRL.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
YCEUM THEATRE, SYDN E Y.
Lessee Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT’S
Latest Attractive Melodrama,
IN LONDON TOWN.
POPULAR PRICES—3s„ 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee MAUD WILLIAMSON.
THE EVER-POPULAR
WOODS-WILLIAMSON COMPANY.
LAST NIGHTS, LAST NIGHTS,
of
T XX lE3 CHRISTIA-KT,
In Preparation, the Grand Production,
A WOMAN’S SIN.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. No Early Doors.
E W BUR Y-S P A D A Is. “ PO P S.”
Is. “Pops.” CENTENARY HALL, YORK ST.
Is. “ Pops.” NEXT SATURDAY EVENING, the Great
Is. “Pops.” English Tenor, Mr. PHILIP NEWBURY
Is. “ Pops." is creating a perfect furore.
Is. “Pops.” The Popular Prima-Donna, Madame EMILY
Is. "Pops.” SPADA, receiving storms of applause.
Is. “ Pops.” GRAND ARTISTIC COMBINATION.
Is. “ Pops." SST Full Programme Saturday’s Papers.
Is. "Pops.” ADMISSION, ONE SHILLING.
Is. “Pops.” Reserved Seats 25., at Nicholson’s.
Telephone, 168 Waverley. ARCHIBALD NEWBURY.
-|- o w"n hall, sydn e y.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 7,
Under the Direction of Mr. John Lemmone,
F. BARRON MORLEY,
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN PIANIST,
Assisted by Miss GRACE FLETCHER, Mr. W. ROLYNS,
and Mr. JOHN LEMMONE.
PRICES—3s., 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
JOHN LAURE, Manager.
AL ACE THEATRE, SYDNEY,
Lessees .. .. Messrs. LEE and RIAL.
Sub-Lessee .. Mr. FRANK THORNTON.
Representative, Mr. Mayne. Agent, Mr. 11. P. Lyons
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING,
Mr. FRANK THORNTON and his Specially-Selected
LONDON COMEDY COMPANY,
including Messrs. Joseph Wilson, Alexander Bradley,
Galwev Herbert, Frank Wilson, John Denton, Mesdames
Vera Fordyce, Phcebe Mercer, Leonie Norbury, Katie Lee.
First Production in Australia of the Funniest Farce-
Comedy of the Day, written by J. H. Darnley, entitled,
FACIN6 THE MUSIC.
As played at the Strand Theatre, London, with enormous
success, for over 300 nights.
Preceded at 8 o’clock by the Musical Farce, A TEST MATCH
by Bower arid Fitzgibbon. Music by Guy Jones.
PRICES—Ss., 35., and One Shilling. Box Plan on
view at Elvy’s.
I V O LI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
LAST NIGHTS of Mr. JAY W. WINTON and M’CINTY,
the Wonderfully Clever Veritriloquial Entertainer.
LAST THREE NIGHTS of
ZOBEDIE, the Clever Hand-balancer and Ascensionist.
Electric Success of PROFESSOR FRED. HARCOURT.
Tremendous Success of HARRIS and WALTERS,
THE FAMOUS JACKSON FAMILY.
INTER-STATE NET BALL COMPETITIONS.
Prices—2/6, 2/-, 1/6, 1/-, and 6d. Early Doors 6d. Extra.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Acting Mgr., A. JIIDDLETON.
ICKARDG’ NEW OPERA HOUSE
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY IUOKARDS
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.m.
MR. TOM NAWN & COMPANY.
MR. and MRS. SIDNEY DREW.
DERENDA and BREEN.
THE LUNDCREENS, PECCY PRYDE, RAY JONES,
WESTON & YOST, JENNIE OPIE, CASELLI SISTERS,
The Great American Novelty, 3WET BAI.L.
Prices—2s. 6d., 25., Is., and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
HEATRE ROYAL,7 MELBOURNE. ~
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and-Manager .. •• William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hendv. Tr.eas., Julius Grant.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, headed by Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN.
. SECOND WEEK of the SUCCESSFUL m
Historical Naval Drama, *
THE MARINERS OF ENGLAND.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. George Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING,
the Bright and Sparkling New Comic Opera,
THE THIRTY THIEVES,
Interpreted by a Specially-Selected Combination of Eng-
lish, American and Australian Comic Opera Artists.
Prices as Usual. Matinees Every Wednesday.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Associate Manager and Stage-Director, Mr. H. H. Vincent.
Bus. Manager, R. Stewart. Treas., E. J. Tait.
LAST NIGHTS of
IVIISS JANET WALDORF
in a Splendid Revival of Shakespeare’s Brilliant and
Ever-Popular Comedy,
MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan .at Allan's.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURN E. ~
Sole Lessees .. .. Henrv Lee and J. G. Rial.
EVERY EVENING,
THE WORLDS ENTERTAINERS,
Comprising the Most Attractive and Up-to-date
Vaudeville Organisation ever seen in Australia.
100 Artists will Present a Programme Replete with
.. Fun and Novelty.
NO ADVANCE IN PRICES—3s., 25., and Is.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
Manager, HARRY MUSGROVE.
Exhibition building, Melbourne.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
THE PEOPLES’ FAREWELL TO THEIR
PRINCESS OF SONG,
A. M Y C A S T TLm BS.
ONE GRAND FAREWELL CONCERT,
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 7. **
Miss Castles will be supported by the Famous Tenor,
SIGNOR CARLO DANI, who will also be heard for
Positively the Last Time in Melbourne.
Popular Prices : The General Admission will be One
Shilling (Is.) Special Reserve, Is. extra. Tickets obtain-
able in all suburbs. Business Manager, GEO. TALLIS.
After several weeks’ hard swearing that
its policy of reduction of members alone can save
the country, Sydney Daily Telegraph has suc-
ceeded in getting a list of 31 members who have
kindly consented to act as saviours, in the House;
27 of these are the direct Opposition who would
blindly follow the Telegraph if it proposed an
increase of members, the balance being rail-sitters
whose support can’t be depended on for a week at
a time. The Telegraph’s agitation has fallen
dead flat; and that journal’s latest aspirations for
a political boss-ship seem to have been definitely
knocked on the head. The paper’s first big mis-
take was in trying to kill Federation; its second
m trying to kill John See when he held such big
again B^eeve ‘ And now it’s in the soup
How does this brutally-frank statement
(from Sydney Telegraph) read ?
F ou " cil yesterday had to deal with 115
applications for the position of chief mechanical engineer,
and a wearing-down process was adopted. Those appli-
cants who were unknown to any alderman were at once
put out of it with the stroke of a pen. Very quickly 80
names disappeared, and there remained 35. From 35 to
10 was another easy step ; from 10 to six was not a diffi-
cult one. The aldermen were about to go on with the
pencil-scratching business, and to eliminate all the re-
maining names but one, when Alderman Beer suggested
that the testimonials to the applications of the six might be
read. - We would then,” he added, “ know what we are
u°ing. The suggestion was acted upon, though not
before Alderman Watkins had protested against the pro-
cedure adopted from the beginning. It was not fair, he
said, to read the testimonials of half-a-dozen men and
pass those of over 100 by, when perhaps they included
rngner credentials than could be found in the lucky six.
His idea was that the applications, with the testimonials,
should have been first dealt with by a small committee.
If the above is true, then the Council should ex-
plain in its advertisement that no person who
isn t blessed with an alderman’s acquaintance has
any show, and that his application won’t even be
considered or his testimonials read. Any other
course amounts to deliberate deception.
It should certainly be one of the most
pressing tasks of the Federal Labor party to
secure for the Australian seaman and shipowner
fair conditions of competition. The cheap ocean
tramp should be as rigorously excluded from our
trade as the cheap, colored laborer, and the
coastal commerce of Australia kept as a close
preserve for an Australian mercantile marine. A
law fashioned upon one now in force in the
United States will effect that object.
Lord Wolseley is said to have visited
Natal to get information at first hand, with
which to equip himself for championing the cause
of his friend Buller in the controversy likely to
arise in England re the Spion Kop affair
directly the war is over. Wolseley, who was
69 on June 4, is considered to have been
greatly ill-used himself by the British Govt., and
a recent Saturday Review heads an article with
the significant words, “ The Roberts Myth.”
The decision of Victorian Judge Hodges,
followed up by a magisterial judgment to the
same effect in N.S.W,, that the Federal duties
can’t be lawfully enforced till the tariff passes
both Houses, seems to upset a‘whole lot of old-
established precedents. Both here and in Eng-
land the Government has always proceeded to
collect duties as soon as they were an-
nounced, and “indemnified” the action after-
wards, and the process was always held legal.
Ex-Attorney-General Isaacs, of Victoria, was
the only man who foresaw possible trou-
ble. He suggested that, for absolute security,
the tariff as originally drafted should be fixed by
Act of Parliament till the end of the session. But
the Freetrade party declared it to be a Protec-
tionist conspiracy to prevent any reductions they
might secure coming into force till the end of the
session, and the matter dropped. There is just a
chance that that dropping has left the Common-
wealth with no present legal revenue at all.
In March, a member of the French Cham-
oer of Deputies proposed that, in future, no deco-
rations should be conferred by Govt., or that, in
the alternative, every Frenchman should be
reckoned to have been born with a decoration, and
that, when the nation designed to specially honor
a man or woman, this should be taken away.
The usual yarn :
“Look at our progress,” cried Victorian members.
“ We have Protection and export more butter than any
other State.” Senator Gould replied that N.S. Wales,
under absolutely Freetrade conditions, produced.the next
largest quantity to Victoria.
In other words N.S. W., under the Freetrade con-
ditions that Gould boasts about, is only next best,
and a very bad next best, to a Protectionist State
' with one-fourth of its area and which started
nearly 50 years later. For that matter, if all
Australasia is reckoned, N.S.W. isn’t second but
third, the little Protectionist province of Maori-
land being second. Gould had better work np
some better defence of the Shoddy policy than
this apologetic second or third place argument.


ĥ
ħ
/'ml.
**\
%
If,
%
A''
IS-
U
Vs
,?<■
i'Z'T
V
A'
A\
3N
ww 1 !
m
%
t
m
%
Vj
SUFFERERS.
What you were you may never be again.
In this lies the lesson we would teach.
Perchance St may be of benefit to those still in the flesh
WHAT THE WORLD’S SCIENTISTS SAY.
THAT half of the nervous affections from which people suffer arise through imperfect and insufficient nerve force. Rob the body of animal magnetism, and paralysis and dis-
order of the chief functions follow. Pluck a flower—it withers. The principle is the same. It is one which involves Death.
Physicians of the widest experience and highest attainment declare that where nervous disorders arise from structural changes m the great nerve centres, the treatment
which lends itself with direct adaptability and possessing most curative results is that of Electricity combined with medical treatment. Many eminent professional medical experts
assert this fact—that where nervous exhaustion and functional disorders are present, symptoms show themselves m sleeplessness, great muscular debility, headache, backache, mental
incapacity, loss of appetite with dyspepsia, and constipation, weariness or a condition of weariness and unrest. The intensity and variety of these symptoms indicate how greatly
the j^dici ous i y w i t h restorative medicines have powerful reconstructive influences/ An electric “ Invigorator ” worn around the loins for a few hours
nightly will effect a great and lasting change by pouring into the nerves that necessary vitality which being absent forms the nucleus of disease.
Head the two following testimonials from persons who have suffered and tried the treatment. Then if you are ill, consult the {specialists and speak likewise.
TESTIMONY
JOCKEYS, CYCLISTS, ATHLETES, SENi)
US VOLUNTARY AFFIRMATIONS.
Mr. Joseph Megson, Champion Cy-
clist of New Sooth Wales, declares :
“I suffered from nervousness for sonrn
time. I was on the point of a constitutional
break-up more than once. The merits of
your Electric ‘ Invigorator,’ as supplied to
me, are beyond question.
(Signed) “J. MEGSON, 1902.”
(There is no mistaking this striking testi-
mony.)
] Certain Reliable
Cure for |j)en.
"jV/TEN want to know where they can he
J.TJL cured. This is most important to
them. THEY WANT THIS KNOW-
LEDGE STRIAGHT AWAY. Perhaps
they hear of others cured. People COME
ALL THE WAY from the Gulf of Car-
pentaria and Western Australia and GET
RELIEVED OF THEIR TROUBLES.
The SPECIALISTS of the INSTITUTE
cure, not only WEAKNESS IN MEN,
but they TONE UP THE REPRODUC-
TIVE SYSTEMS, and so thoroughly reno-
vate the body generally that the thought of
calamity dies permanently. They have in
their secretarial chamber OVER 10,000
TESTIMONIALS from men CURED of
EXHAUSTION and GENERAL DE-
BILITY. The system of the Specialists is
entirely new, and is in effect a combination
of Medicine and Electricity. Electricity is
Life, and an Electric- “ In vigorator ” worn
around the waist for a few weeks, instilling
into the system a gentle, remedial current,
re-invigorates the entire nervous system.
Worn whilst a course of medicine is taken,
this system will conquer the worst case of
“ weakness ” endured by men.
Anyone suffering from Chronic forms of
DYSPEPSIA, INDIGESTION, CON-
STIPATION, ORGANIC or FUNC-
TIONAL NERVE DISORDERS, PAL-
PITATION, EPILEPSY, NEURALGIC
AFFECTIONS, HEADACHES, BACK-
ACHES, RHEUMATISM, LUMBAGO,
INSOMNIA, ENFEEBLED CONDI-
TION, GOUT, should write to the
SPECIALISTS and state fully their symp-
toms. Patients write to thejmstitute from
all parts of Australia, and are treated in
thgir own hpmes as well as if they had
visited the Specialists personally.
rn»J
ar
m
U
&
I
K
I
i
zr
if 1 ??*
%
%
111
7*5
&
TESTIMONY
BARRISTERS, LAWYERS, AND COMMER-
CIAL MEN SPEAK WELL OF THE NEW
SYSTEM.
Mr. Jack Marsh, the brilliant profes-
sional bowler and cricketer, of whom so
much notoriety has recently arisen in
cricketing centres, says
“Heavy strain entailed by bowling in
many matches caused intermittent pains and
weakness in my loins and legs. To remedy
it I tried your Electric ‘ Invigorator.’ I
can recommend the treatment to all athletes.
“(Signed) JACK MARSH, 1902.”
“Witness: F. Ironsides.”
Our Electric
“ Invigorators.”
WE do not ask you to believe that an
“Invigorator ” will entirely cure
you of disease, but our “ Invigor-
ators,” used with our medicines, accom-
plishes that which neither electricity or
medicine alone can do. The two together
have wonderful renovative effects, and con-
tain reconstructive elements in cases of
degenerated and enfeebled constitutions
which amaze the medical Faculty. Our
“ Invigorators ” are the only ones tested
by two of Sydney’s leading electricians.
We hold certificates of genuineness unpos-
sessed by others. We have several classes,
which vary in value according to cost of
construction. Our £lO instrument contains
the same current as those at £1 (which we
specially recommend), but it also contains
2oz. of 18ct. gold, which raises the value.
If you require a test privately it will be
given you.
We ask you to read these prices and then
give one of these instruments a trial. What-
ever you suffer from where your natural
strength and nerve power is lacking, you
will be strengthened. The desire of a man
is to be with the victors, not the vanquished.
To be strong, hearty, healthy—that is your
desire, and it is the effect of the use of this
instrument.
PRICES:
Copper Plate ... £l.
Silver Plate ... £1 10s.
Solid Silver ... £3.
Solid Gold £lO
(2oz. 18c. Gold)
(There is no reason why you should pay more.)
OUR MEDICAL LITERATURE.
RECENTLY offered to the public is the INSTITUTE’S ANNUAL PUBLICATION,
“ Clinical Experiences,” ELEGANTLY BOUND, ADMIRABLY PRINTED,
PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED, DESCRIPTIVELY WRITTEN ; it is a medical volume
all should possess. The BOOK CONTAINS 550 PAGES OF MEDICAL LITERATURE,
150 FULL-PAGE PLATES and MEDICAL ILLUSTRATIONS, over 30 Chapters Treating
of General Diseases, with SPECIAL ARTICLES upon Poisons and Antidotes, Burns, Scalds,
Drowning, Invalids and their Treatment, Sick Room Advices, Snake Bites, Fevers, etc. This
makes it invaluable to people in the outlying portions of Australia. It is a work everyone
should obtain. It is practically given away. It is a handsome addition to the Household
Literature, and is in itself A WHOLE LIBRARY OF FACTS. 1/- is the only charge.
FEES FOR CONSULTATION.
ALTHOUGH the Specialists are undoubtedly the Leading Pathologists of Australasia,
being known far and wide by reason of great professional achievements, which are a
series of professional triumphs, their Fees are not considered to any person who may be ill and
require an opinion of their case. THIS IS GIVEN FREE OF CHARGE. The only cost
of securing these opinions will be the cost of writing. Letters are replied to punctually and
are treated with professional secrecy. In all cases a reply is assured within a few days to the
farthest parts of Australia. All medicines are posted to all addresses safely packed from obser-
vation, and patients can have their remedies sent to any address and under any name they
chose. In all cases free opinions are given in cases of disease. This is done in the service of
suffering humanity.
QREDENTIUS.
The MEDICAL BOARDS of NEW SOUTH WALES, VICTORIA, SOUTH AUSTRALIA, ENGLAND, and AMERICA prove the PHYSICIAN-IN-CHIEF
of the INSTITUTE is registered throughout the FACULTY, and that he is a man of exceptional professional attainments. NINE CERTIFICATES of QUALI-
FICATION and REGISTRATION are open daily for inspection in the great consulting chamber of the INSTITUTE. SIR DOMINIC CORRIGAN,. Bakt.,
Physician to the late honored Queen, speaks of the Physician-in-Chief thus
“I entertain a high opinion of Dr. WALLACE, both personally and in respect to his professional qualifications.”
British Army Medical Staff.
Late Consulting Staff Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne, and
FREEMAN * WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAI
and SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director Electro-Medical Department.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, Physician-in-Chief.
Medicines packed Free from Observation and sent to all parts of Australia.
Letters treated with Professional Secrecy and promptly replied to.


HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
"ith Wounds (hat Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that deties all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
ifhver can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
niay be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
tf allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured,
r-'e ll dat once for
AEUERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PiLLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Begs,
Housemaid s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists. Stores,
Sto. Price, in Great Ilri ain, 1/Hd. per box. Prepared by
AI 13 hit I', La r ringdon-street, .London, England.
Agents : ELLIOTT BUOi., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
g.een label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
30 Days’ Trial.
h
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.'—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Brice List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabexh iSTUKUT, SYDNEY.
CALVERTS
20 per cent.
CARBOLIC
SOAP
Curas and prevents Insect
and Mosquito bites.
Tlie strong-st Carbolic Toilet Soap.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
rnmim
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, By Dr.
ALFRED NEALE. Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
AND THEIR TREATMENT.
Posted Is Id.
Publishers : Turner an d Henderson, SYDN ICY.
A Wonderful Inven
tion. Grand Piano
like Tone.
The REUI HARP ZITHER,
Piano-Harp.
A Harp that Anyone can
Play. Louder than the
Large Italian Harp.
m
.
Or its tones can be modulated to the soft, sweet tones of the German Zither.
In addition to its wonderful tone quality, the Harp-Zither has a great many
advantages over all other Zithers. It is the only Zither which may he played
while holding vertically like the Harp, or it may be laid upon a table, as is
necessary with the ordinary Zither.
Observe the diagonally crossed strings, almost the same as in a piano, the
melody strings passing over the chord strings. By means of this improvement
in construction the similarity in tone and volume of the piano is produced.
Beautiful in Design, Grand, Resonant Tone, Perfection in Every Point,
and it is the easiest to learn to play of any musical instrument in existence.
A child can play it almost at sight. The reason anyone can play this ins'.ru
ment on first trial, even though the person may know absolutely nothing
about music, or may not have an ear for music, is this : Each string is num-
bered, as is each note in the music, so all one has to do to render the most
difficult selections is to strike the strings as indicated by the numbers ; hmce
we guarantee that anyone able to read figures can learn to play.
The Harp-Zither is built on the lines of the large harp which sells at
£2O and upwards, and to the astonishment of all the Harp-Zither has the
louder tone of the two ; in fact, its tone is similar to that of a piano.
D*- SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
As a parlor ornament, the instrument, with its classical outlines, is
unique. For the serenade, the musicale, or any class of entertainment, the
Harp-Zither excels all other instruments of its class. Its Deep, sympathetic
Tones Penetrate even those Insensible to the Charms of Music.
Style I. —Ebonised, piano finish, decorated, twenty-three strings, three
chords, two picks, key, case, full instructions, and a lot of figure music,
I dripe 9rl | Carriage paid to any part of Australasia. Size of Style 1
I | Harp-Zither is 10 inches wide by 18 inches long. Paymen
should be made by Post Office money-order, and orders for goods addressed to
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY, 229-231 Collins St., Melbourne.
V
PLAIN NOM€ TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1200 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, butabout
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1901 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted to any address for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, is posted.
Sboret History of the Court of England, 1 6 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Bead Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illns. Leather hound, my price, 15s post paid
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Pa, Ma and Baby, by Gustdve Droz, posted 2s.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big Book
Catalogue- post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
Dr. CTarlsson’s Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep ; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts,- and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarlison’s
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
V
* «
partes, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
vviii ’ bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful.
THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
oaeeorwrite- OWIj CUT. DKT JG STORE,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
' . ;
■mm
mm
m
■Ssfi
mm-i
M
■
-0 _ V Y
W&
HERR RASSMUSSEN (HANS PETER RASMUSSEN),
The Celebrated Danish Botanist,
Proprietor and Discoverer of the World-Famed Alfaline Herbal Remedies,
which have been the means of effecting the most marvellous Cures for Blood,
Skin and Nervous Diseases ever heard of in Australia.
Herr Rassmussen’s Australian Career:
It is about Twenty Years since Herb
Rassmussen introduced his Herbal Remedies
to the Australian Public. At that time
he was only known to the public as a Botanist
pure and simple, having devoted almost his
whole life to the study of that most useful
and interesting branch of science. It how-
ever, soon dawned on Herr Rassmussen that
immense virtues existed in many plants which
were entirely unknown to medical men, and
that it was his duty towards his fellow man
to bring these new discovered Herbal Remedies
within the means of suffering humanity.
Herr Rassmussen at once set to work,
and his entire energy was directed towards
extracting the medical properties from all
kinds of plants, and putting them up in the
most suitable and practical form, according
to the nature of the complaints which they
had been found a cure for.
Pills and Powders were found to be the
most practical form to administer these new
Herbal Remedies.
It is unnecessary to particularise here the
immense success Herr Rassmussen met with
in his venture twenty years ago ; suffice it to
say that in less than twelve months the
great and wonderful cures brought about by
his Alfaline Herbal Remedies were known
throughout Australia, New Zealand, and many
other parts of the world. Testimonials and
Honors arrived from all parts. Gold Medals
from Paris and other places were awarded, and
Herr Rassmussen’s name has been a house'
hold word ever since.— (Sydney Press-)
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Herbal Remedies!
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
are a guaranteed cure for all Nervous Diseases’
Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Poor Memory
Tired Feeling, Melancholia, Spots before the
Eyes, etc. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
are a permanent cure for Wasting Diseases in
Women, Anaemia, and a perfect Blood and
Nerve Tonic Boxes, 6/- & 12/-; bourses, 23/6,
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
are a permanent cure for all Chronic Blood
and Skin Diseases, Blotches, Blood Disorders,
Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, &c.
Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER & KIDNEY PILLS
cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulence,
Heartburn, Wind, Biliousness and Headache.
Boxes, One Shilling.
ALFALINE RHEUMATIC PILLS.
Guaranteed to cure Rheumatism, Gout,
Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted 3/-,
6/-, 12/- & 23/6. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
ALFALINE ASTHMA & COUGH PILLS.
A wonderful remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis, Influenza and Asthma.
Boxes, posted, 3/-, 6/-, 12/- & 23/6.
GENERAL REMEDIES.
Alfaline Pile Powders, cure internal and
external Piles, boxes 3/- and 6/- ; Varicocele
Powders, boxes 6/-; Blood Capsules _or
Globulus, 6/-; Fat-Reducing Powders, which
removes corpulency, 6/-; Hair Restorer, 6/-;
Corn Cure,!/-; Ointment, I/-; Eucalyptus
Oil and Jujubes, boxes 1/-; Flesh-Producing
Powders, 6/-; Worm Tablets, 1/-; Headache
Tablets, 1/-; Electric Belts, Suspenders,
Bandages, etc. Circulars with all particulars
sent Free.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPEGIALTY.
HERR RASSMU3SEN has made special arrangements for attending
personally to his Clients living in the Country, and Letters will receive
most careful attention. ... ,
His Remedies will be forwarded to sufferers, packed in plain cover and
unobserved, together with Advice and Directions. Letters should
to Herr Rassmussen’s full name —HANS PETER RASMUSSEN and
Registered if containing Money.
Herr Rassmussen’s Addresses:
Head Office: 547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
ALSO AT
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke Street
BRISBANE—3O9 Queen Street
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney Street
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington
W.A.—PEETH—4BI Hay Street
KALQOOELIE—Hannan Street
EOULDEE ClTY—Piesse Street
FEEMANTLE—II7 High Street
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, aud List of Alfaliue Remedies
There seems to be a definite split in the
British Cabinet on the Imperial Federation ques-
tion, Salisbury’s declaration against any “closer
union ” negotiations having been now answered by
two Chamberlain speeches, stating that “closer
union is imperative.” The odds are 10 to 1 in
favor of Chamberlain’s idea being adopted as the
Government policy. Salisbury is in the position
of a fat and weary publican anxious to doze in
peace, but pestered by an assiduous bagman, who
insists that he shall stock a brand of liquor which
lie knows will not agree with his guests ; the fat
publican will hold out, yawningly, for a little
while, and then the bagman will have his way.
Lord Salisbury, the weary old cynic of the
British Government, sees enough to see how
dangerous is the Chamberlain idea of Imperial
Federation, and comments —
Considering the difficulties regarding- the burdens of
finance, the duties of defence, and the rights of decision
which the Motherland could retain, I look with appre-
hension on any attempt to force the various parts of the
Empire into a mutual arrangement for which they are
not ready, as being calculated' to produce a reaction in
avor of the old state of things.
In short, he would prefer the unfettered amica-
bility of the present to the chances of another
colonial war of independence.


Discovered by
Christopher
Mudd, F.L.S., F.R.G.S., M.B.Ph.S., London,
England during His Majesty’s Indian Tour.
Botanist
ECZEMAOLEAC
Cures this terrible itching complaint.
Not a grease. Does not stain the linen.
Full directions each jar. Jars, 4/6 ; post, 4/10
Used in the Melbourne Homoeopathic
Hospital with success.
ANTHOS-HAIR
Not a Grease, purely Botanical.
Written testimony from well-known medical men.
One bottle In daily use lasts about 4 months.
"Anthos” prevents Hair falling out, Dandruff,
and Irritation, Bottles, 2/6 ; posted, 3/3.
obtainable: from all chemists and
Melbourne : Foy & Gibson and all Chemists.
Svdnev : Pattinson & Co. (alt branches).
ay y Park & SON, i<6 Pitt Street.
Depot: M. H. MOR WITZ, 34 Pitt Street.
New Zealand: C. L. Best, Ponsonby, Auckland.
Adelaide: Harris & Kemp, Arcade.
Brisbane: Taylor & Colledgk Ltd.
Perth: Foy & Gibson.
Colonial Representative : Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
WOOL. PRODUCE. GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
acX A.S SBLX.IKTG BROKERS OKTLY.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of tins Company.
WOOL,
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (JI PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
.'(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising ovor SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
< will be , ••• "•
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb : ••• •••
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
L under
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing.
Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT. . _ „
Everv inducement is offered growers to consign them grain for realisation by the Company
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed Circulars are sent wl
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
AGENTS FOB. McDOUGALI/S SHEEP DIP.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL, you enjoy your lunch
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
Single Room, with. Full Board, 8s per
day, or .£2 2s. per week.
TERMS.—The convenient
system of paying for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms ; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp —from Is. —and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.3 o—from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
LOVELY COLORS.
. BRILLIANT
GLOSS.
REJECT
IMITATIONS.
SPINALIS
OXIDISED
ENAMEL.
irm n iii»j
READY FOR USE
§3
ERFECT
—
/FtCCTIOMS FOR USE.
mu u mi
nemcross. LOHDtmmm
.. *
/MG
See that A spin all’s name
and Medals are stamped
on every Tin.
MANUFACTURED BY
ASPINALL’S ENAMEL, Ltd. NEW CSSSS,
LONDON, ENG.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney Clarence Street)
19, 21, 23 King Street;, Melbourne.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES . . .
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pumps, Turbine Fans.
(Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
Messrs. GREENWOOD & BATLEY LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Eleotrioal Engincerc, Dynamos, Motors, Pumps, etc.
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
Insulated Cables, Wires, Tapes, efo.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to> 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Harr and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers a. Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human llair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
CRAIG & AITKBKT,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
WANTED
TP YOU ARE SUFFERING from any of the following
ailments, viz., Rheumatism, Sciatica, Vital Weak*
ness, Liver Complaint, Dyspepsia, Lame Back or
Debility, Kidney Disease or any Organic Derange-
ments, we want you to wear one of our ELECTRIC
BELTS, and when CURED to let other sufferers know
that our ELECTRIC BELTS will permanently CURE
when all other Remedies have FAILED. We prefer those
cases who have failed to obtain relief elsewhere. Send
us a description of your case, and size around the waist
next to skin. Address —
ARTHUR HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
44 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
London Address: 105 Regent Street, W.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to XOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of"
RX CORO’s
y.\ f € "
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World. ,
Dr. Ricord's Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia —PERRY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
F. H. Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Beat
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. •
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE’S
rNLOROPyNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BROHOHITIS,
DIAKRHCEA, Ac., bears on,
the Government Stamp tlxe name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS at
Sept. 28. 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
ĥ
GOUGHS
ħ
Powell’s Balsam
of Aniseed.
SAFE AND RELIABLE.
i
Gives Immediate Relief.
h
FOR 78 YEARS
THE POPULAR REMEDY FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and all Lung Troubles.
It loosens the -Phlegm immediately, and removes
the tickling sensation in the Throat, which de-
prives so many of rest during the night. It also
Strengthens the Voice and Cures Hoarseness.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers,
But see the well-known Trade Mark—Lion, Net
and Mouse—is on each wrapper.
Prepared only by Thomas Powell, Ltd.,
k Blackfriars, London, S.E. a
r GOUT v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO,
These invaluable Tills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pbout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
“Don’t shout”
" 1 hear you. t can hear now
as well as anybody.
••‘How?’ Oh. some-
thingnew— The Wilson.
Common-sense Ear-V]
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can’t see them
-they're invisible, i wouldn't
know I bad them in myself,
only that I hear all right."
.The Wilson Ear-Drum Is
really a substitute for the
.working parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other de-
vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
.1. CtlAUlfßh, 229-231 Collins »f. t Help.
ĥ
h
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
ĥ
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English
American and made to order
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, Jec.
DENYER BROS.. Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
■
Vapor Bath Cabinets.
Price, 25/-
Kead and Face Steamer, 3/6
Carriage paid to any railway station
on direct route in Victoria, N.S.W.,
and S.A., or any seaport town.
We also have a better quality
Cabinet at 45/- (Head and Face
Steamer/ree to advertise this line).
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
ħ
<9
1 Render, why Dot be able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can -earn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. Yon can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
I that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can curedisease
I conquer pain ,* win reluctant affection,
\ gratify your ambitions, and produce
iamusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find ont all about it. I have
iust issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
[Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
|of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I will send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a chance of |
a lifetime. Address—
&
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A TESTED AND /NFALLIBLE REMEDY,
Within the reach of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CURES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C.S. Eng.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
NASAL POLYPUS
and Similar Growths in the Nasal
and Post-Nasal Passages . . .
CURED WITHOUT OPERATION.
Hundreds of cases successfully treated. Write for
particulars to . . .
NEWHAM WATERWORTH.
Edward-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIADLT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Fop Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault's Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GR.IMA.UI4T & Co., Paris. Sold by ai. Cbcmi ts.


C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s
CIRCULAR-POINTED PENS
(Ltd.)!;
Seven Prize Medals Awarded;
Neither scratch nor
spurt, the points
being rounded by a
new process.
Attention is also
drawn to their new
“ CRADUATED
SERIES OF
PENS.”
I
h
Each pattern being made in jour degrees of flexibility and Points.
Ask your Storekeepar for an Assorted Sample Box of either series. Works: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND*
Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FA.MOTJS REMJaOY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA. 7
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing Hoarseness Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure Tt is most com-
fortmg in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develon 'OnnsmnnHnn has
never been exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is* generally sufficient,
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. —Dear Sir, —I am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my cose to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
" r "stminster*ridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
JEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked."—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindjy forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vio.
"Mr. Hearne.—
"Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to inv mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“ JOHN S. MORTIMER."
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
" 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
"Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
"Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only' every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.*
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows: —“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night's rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Tears’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,’
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Pive Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
! I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
‘‘Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthina, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment!
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS' CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville
Queensland, writes : —“After suffering from Asthina for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then
which was in the beginning of 1883— 16 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it ”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states-—“’i
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma. ’*
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
„ ’ Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street. Sydney Tel 35fi2
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large. 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. * Post to any Adless Jn not olflllfpHly.
BRANCH DEPOT—
(LIMITED).
(X.a,lt© HlawarraJ, aear
SX3DKTBY.
MAKERS OF
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
•V
S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AMD
ILLAWARRA”
..BRAND Off..
SOFT LEAD.
rcbasera 61 .11 oUsses of GOLD, SILVER. LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS. JEWELLERS’ SR EBP REFINERS of SILVER tFa n wirr r
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT“ "s“ S BULLION
■ *! 0 L“ 1 "WliN -to- apply to P. S. Morse. Manager, Tn smeu.ng Company of An.tr.lia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.SW.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
“‘Benger’s Food’
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBIIION, LONDON
Benger’s Food
Far Infants, Invalids , and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive, and Ugestibie.
Bender s Food is sold bv Chemists. Rrc.. . Fverv where.
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
t > find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘Benger’s
Food’ everywhere.”
“If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.
Again the unreasoningness of the fair sex.
At Ballarat a comely-looking young woman was
charged with stealing 10s. worth of groceries. It
was Proved that she was in great want and did it
tb feed her children, so a kindly J.P., named Long
after h " s L and P 'V d the ra ° ne y himself. Shortly
alter, as he was leaving the court, the woman
embraced him publicly, thanked him witlT tears
leaven the btoings 3
over him P Tr lm ’ , al ? d we P fc gratefully all
over him. It showed that Mr. Long’s goodness
jp n ? ™splaced, but it is embarrassing for a
J-P. to be publicly embraced by a handsome
voung woman, and if it happens often he will
have to send all such to gaol to prevent misunder-
standings. A more self-contained woman would
have gone silently round to Long’s house and
polished his door-handle or whitened his front
steps as a token of gratitude. There used to be a
legend up Maryborough (Q.) way of a man who
repaid a similar kindness by spending the best
part of the night whitewashing his benefactor’s
wooden fence. He meant well, but, unhappily, he
failed to notice in the darkness that the fence had
been recently painted a bright green. When the
benefactor looked out in the morning and saw
what had happened his language was terrible.


THE CONDUCTOR OF AN ORCHESTRA
AND THE
. .*
!!J;f
jEOLIAN ORCHESTRELLE, STYLE GRECIAN
Does the conductor of an orchestra
Experience the pleasure incident
To the producing of music?
Did you ever stop to consider this?
Did you ever wonder what would be the
Effect should the master drop the
Baton? Would not the inspiration to the
Men be gone? Would not the result
Be colorless and mechanical? Watch
The effect of his controlling spirit;
See how he “leads in” the different parts
At the right moment. Should the
Strings waver or hesitate, see how, with
Almost hypnotic force, he inspires
His men. Should the brass predominate,
Watch with how gentle a hand he
Subdues the tone to its proper balance.
He makes the music ensemble.
Would you not enjoy the ability.
To produce these musical results f
You can do this ■with an JEolian
For with it you become virtually
An orchestral leader.
The relation of the performer
To the instrument is exactly the same as
That of the conductor to his orchestra.
Neither the conductor nor the AJolianist
Produces a sinrde tone.
The perforated music-roll performs
The duty of the men. Your part
Is to bring in at the proper time,
As indicated on the roll, the proper
effects— i.e. t
String, wood, wind or brass.
Should the tempo drag, by means of
One of the stops you quicken the 'music.
Do you need a greater volume of tone?
Do you wish to produce a delicate
Pianissimo, the touch of the hand and
You have the effect. Thus the
iEolian enables you to produce, with a
Few weeks’ practice, results which usually
Are obtained only by life-long study.
The Orchestrelle is a new type
Of which, every one who has
Not yet had an opportunity to
Pass judgment upon it should hear.
If you are not able to call and examine
This wonderful instrument
Write for our illustrated pamphlet.
The Co, of New York
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.,
Sydney, 323 George Street,
Melbourne, 185 and 187 Collins Stree ‘
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
*
L
ime-
The basis of which is “Montserrat ” Lime-Fruit Juice.
Far Superior to
all otHer sauces<
•
AGENTS— E I I tott Bros. Ltd., J. Connell & Co., D. Mitchell & Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
WINCHESTER
MODEL 1900 SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE
HIS rifle sells at a price within reach of almost every-
body’s pocketbook, but it is made with the same care and
exactness as Winchester rifles that cost five times as
much. The name “Winchester” on this rifle is a
| guarantee in itself of its quality. The Model 1900 is a
| hammerless take-down, and can be taken apart easily
and quickly. It is made with an 18-inch round barrel,
fitted with open front and rear sights. It shoots .22 Short and .22
Long Rim-Fire cartridges, and Bullet Breech caps. These cartridges cost
so little that one can afford to shoot as many times as he likes as often
as he likes. Some makes of .22 Caliber rifles are a few pence cheaper,
but they are a great deal cheaper in quality than they are in price.
We don’t try to see how cheap we can make this rifle, but how good.
FOR SALE BY ALL IRONMONGERS
m
gg|
I
MELLIN’S
FOR INFANTS FOOD AND INVALIDS.
Is adapted for use from birth.
Send for Pamphlet and Samples to GOLLIN & CO., 562-4, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
60, Clarence Street, Sydney; Grenfell Street, Adelaide; and Wellington.
Mellin’s Food Company for Australia and New Zealand, Ltd., 66, Cannon Street, London, Eng.
Explorations in Civilisation.
BEING THE LETTERS OF AN AUSTRALIAN IN EXILE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Nov. ctfd. —We suffered a return to bad weather last
night, and in the battering of the ship by the gale
a poor soldier from Saigon died died from the
mere buffeting. Passed through the Straits of
Messina early. The city of Messina stretches
over miles of the Sicilian coast —on the Italian
side are Reggio and Scilla. The latter was evi-
dently built to encourage the castle we saw on a
very abrupt promontory. There are hundreds
of hovels clustered at the castle foot like penniless
cadgers round a penurious drunkard. The steep
slopes of the mountains, which rise like walls out
of the sea, are covered with vines; every bare
rock is in cultivation. Even seen from the sea,
there is an air of picturesque misery about rural
Italy, so that I felt sorry for the Italian peasants
who'drank wine, played the guitar, and starved.
I might have saved my sympathy. I had not
then seen the English poor —the most squalid poor
on earth.
All the morning we coasted the Li pari Islands,
which are great masses of bare rock rising without
vegetation 2000 or 3000 feet above sea level. Yet
each of these islands has a fairly big population—
the towns sprawling down the mountain sides to
the sea, the houses spotting the slopes as if they
had been shaken out of a great pepper castor.
The people who are plucky enough to put such
soil into cultivation are the kind we want in Aus-
tralia. We could do with a few millions of the
rural workers of the British Isles, of France, and
of Italy, but we do not want the city pauper of
any country—English-speaking or otherwise.
Nov. 4th.—Passed the Straits of Bonifaccio
shortly after daylight. Both Sardinia and Cor-
sica are very uninviting. The granite shores of
King George’s Sound are heavenly in comparison
with the shores of Corsica. Napoleon was born
here —it ia not hard to believe he left as soon as
possible. The chief products of these islands
seem to be scenery for comic operas. I saw nine
cliff-scenes with chateaux, or lager-beer breweries,
or light-houses just like the first act of “ Les
Cloches de Corneville” We expect to pass the
third act of “ Olivette ” during the afternoon.
Nov. sth. —Awoke at dawn and found we were
anchored off Marseilles. Dead ahead was the
town, and a cable-length off us one of the most
famous gaols in history—the Chateau D’lf. You
look at it and feel the pang of disappointment.
It seems so easy to escape from there, that you
wonder how the Man with the Iron Mask and
Dumas’ hero were ever held for so long. But inside
the rock and below the water there are cells whose
walls are 15 feet thick—and that constitutes a con-
siderable sort of gaol. But Pentridge Stockade
or Melbourne Gaol look more ancient and more
awesome than any of these old European prisons.
There is something enduring, terrible, majestic
and reserved in bluestone. Sandstone and lime-
stone gaols seem, in comparison, almost futile.
We landed and found another new world.
There were many long, two-wheeled drays drawn
by a beautiful type of light draught-horse, very
big in the shoulders, which were exaggerated by
the high-peaked collars and the tall hames
trimmed with little bells. Another fine patch of
color is the grape-woman, with her scales at her
girdle, and balancing a basket of translucent fruit
on her head—her sabots clicking over the cobbles.
We went to breakfast at a cafe on the Cour
Belsunce under the plane-trees, whose leaves were
just beginning to turn. In Australia pictures by
old-world artists of “Autumn ” seemed to be very
exaggerated and unreal. Now I find that these
autumn tints had been faithfully reproduced.
Around us was all the raffle of the boulevard—
the cake women, and the paper kiosks, and the
shoe-blacks, and the chestnut braziers, and the
cafes (which I found next day were busy from
daylight) ;"and the dAjeuner was good and joyous.
A Marseillais who called himself a guide because
he knew five words of English and knew them
wrong, attached himself to me, but he could only
offer indecencies for consideration. Feeling vir-
tuously indignant, I asked him to have a drink,
and he ordered “Scotch Wisk’ ” —and I lost him
with some trouble.
It is the romantic way of looking at facts
which makes poverty in France and Italy not
so horrible as in the more lymphatic, but
not always more practical, England and Ger-
many. When they are poor the Englishman
and the German stay in their cellars and rot
there. The poverty of southern Europe is pal-
liated by open air and a sun that knows how to
shine. In the names of the streets of English
and German towns there are bald statements of
facts j in France and Italy there are statements
of fact and suggestions of picture and story. One
Sunday I had four hours to wait for a train at
Paris to take me to Mont Cenis, and for an hour
of that time I wandered (very appropriately) in
the Street of the Dance of the Mule, hungry for
the story it must have to tell. In Rome, during
my first afternoon there, I found the “Street of
Life,” and the “Way of the Greeks,’ and the
“Street of the Incurables,” the “Street of
Marie ” “ Street of the Flowers,” and the “ street
of Death.” In London I find the Strand and Old
Broad-street (one of the narrowest streets of the
world), and many other bare statements or mis-
statements, but no picture and no romance. Any-
how you can’t have true romance or good art
without sunlight.
By the great Arch of the Republic at Marseilles
I saw the home-coming workmen entertained, as
their great-great-grandfathers were entertained
centuries ago, by the street acrobat and the street
clown —a third actor helping out the awkward
pauses with an insistent drum. The finest sight
of all was the public washing-place—where, in the
sunlight, softened by the square of plane trees,
the women of Marseilles washed their linen m
public on the flat stones of the great troughs.
Such work in the sunlight loses half the sting of
poorly-paid labor; washing done English-fashion
in a steamy cellar is mere slavery—squalid,
unrelieved slavery. The chestnut braziers steamed
round the square, sending up a savor like that of
baked potatoes. , . ,
Through these narrow streets—rectangular to
the nobly-wide boulevards, without footways—
carts and waggons and landau-cabs mixed them-
selves with the pedestrians, who retreated occa-
sionally for safety into the doorways of charcoal-
shops, wine-shops, beer-shops, and butcheries.
The streets, paved with square stones, are cleansed
bv streams of water flowing continuously m the
middle of the day. I walked m some of the nar-
rower of the narrow courts, with high buildings
on both their sides—so high that only a strip of
blue showed the sky—and blessed the chance of
this return to medievalism. While so engaged in
thinking of the spiritual and inward grace of the
16th century, I scarcely escaped the outward and
visible-gign of that period, at the hands of an old
woman who cleaned house in 16th century style,
by throwing the jetsam out of a four-storey
window. After all, the 20th century and an
energetic Board of Health have their uses.
At night I went to the railway station to see a
friend from Manila off to Paris, and we entered
the refreshment-room for a final drink. It was.a
gorgeous apartment, and I took pleasure in
smoking a pipe there, simply because a pipe m
that salle <i manger is considered to be a sacrilege,
whereas the smoking of a cigar is regarded as a
proof of having found grace. But they had their
revenge, and charged us four francs for two
whiskies-and-soda. ,
So back to the Cour Belsunce and then to the
Alcazar, where I paid three francs for a stall and
one franc for a programme. This separate-charge-
for-a-programme fraud is a blackmail common to
all England and the Continent. A piece of paper
whicli cost, printed, about ten a penny, is sold for
anything up to tenpence —the idea being that,
having paid for admission you may see a puzzle,
but not an explainable performance, unless you
consent to pay extra. None of the women-smgers
had fine voices, but most were vivacious, and
one of them, Marguerite Dantes, was a splendid
animal, with that gift of humor which amounts to
the possession of a soul. She yelled her songs in
a pleasant, big, strong, unmusical voice ; bullied
her audience, shouted at them until her breasts
worked out above her corsage, evidently a not
unrehearsed happening, for her bodice had no
shoulder-straps, and was strikingly low. Ihe
audience shrieked encores to her again and again.
Finally she made faces, lifted high her arms, and
was gone. The teetotaller, or the Social Purity per-
son, or any other suspicious organism, of thin
blood, would have said “Vile! Disgusting ! to
all this. But it wasn’t. The audience was not
prurient, nor was Dantes either. What these
people were all admiring was the energy and
the laughter of her ; and she was enjoying her own
animal spirits, the rarest of all things m this tired
old Northern Hemisphere. Indeed, when a
tiring performer who followed Dantes tried the
effect of her arm-pit-flash that audience hissed her.
Then there was a wondrously well-acted panto-
mime, with a grave, bearded, barristerial-looking
young man as recitant. There was a Pierrot try-
ing to entice a Columbine. Summer flowers in a,
vase on the table. By-and-bye she accepts and
Pierrot kisses her. Curtain rises again. I lerrot
disappeared—snowfall seen through the window.
Colombine deserted. Curtain falls on Colombine
sobbing as if heart-broken. All very human—the
recitant and the orchestra telling it well. And
not a guffaw from the audience —not one indecent
chuckle at the picture of the woman paying the
price Even the two demi-mondames who sat
next me did not laugh. Other demi-mondaines
I have met would have laughed under such cir-
cumstances, because of their belief that hardness
is expected of them. In France, apparently, an
unvirtuous woman is not irretrievably doomed. In
English-speaking countries the. woman who slips
pays for all. In England, and in some Australian
towns, the fallen woman is an aggressive horror.
In London there are many music-halls kept up
principally by this class ; in such places few visi-
tors regard the inane indecencies of the performers
—they are beset by the more substantial lndecen-
cies of the audience. These places are clustered
around by as many churches to the square mile as
there are clay-pans on Packsaddle-road ; there are
every night a dozen dinners in the vicinity, where
some prize complacent ass talks of our glorious
England—brave, happy and free” ; and at the
back of these wholesale assignation-houses—these
schnapper-grounds of squalid, weary lust, called
music-halls, are the wretched tenements ot the
worst savages on earth.
The two women who sat near me at Marseilles
were not aggressive. They were quiet, unobtru-
sive—-their occupation did not suggest itself on
sight. The one who was my immediate neig ibor
sighed, and said “‘Pauvrefille !” in allusion to
the Colombine.
RANDORLPH BEDFORD.
according to reports, Commandant Fi< j t
de Wet offered to lead a force of renegade
burghers under the British flag against his
country’s cause, and London Times, publishing a
laudatory notice of his career, states that in the
earlier stages of the war his reputation stood
higher than that of his brother Christian and
though the extreme party have sought to belittle
his services since his surrender in 1900, some im-
partial judges are inclined to hold that he has
shown the better military abilities of the two.
As a matter of fact, Piet de Wet was seldom men-
tioned in reports, ‘and was then referred to as a
brother of Christian de Wet.” To the mere
accident of kinship he owed whatever reputation
he had ; but it doesn’t suit the Imperial Press to
belittle those who have turned dog on their
country in the British interest. For his turn-
coat policy, London Times holds up Piet de Wet
as an example of “an honorable soldier .
if a Britisher acted in a similar manner, he would
be justly called the worst and meanest land of
traitor.
At a multitude of the Sydney churches,
on a recent Sunday, handbills wyre served out
calling on the people to protest against the I ederai
Divorce Bill because:
1 The welfare of the state depends upon the sanctity
of the family relations. 2. The civil law should therefore
be kept as close as possible to the law of Christ. 3. this
Bill allows re-marriage for the following causes: (1)
Desertion for three years, (2) habitual drunkenness, (3)
imprisonment in the aggregate for three years (4) re-
peated cruelty during one year; and the law of Christ
does not. 4, Judicial separation can always be granted
without the right of re-marriage. 5. The Christian law
secures the greatest happiness of the greatest number.
6. Cases of hardship should be relieved, but not so as to
injure the whole community. 7. By making divorce
easy, you aggravate the very evil you seek to alleviate.
8. Once begin to relax, and you open a door that cannot
be closed 9. Therefore, instead of relaxing the marriage
laws, the State should protect the family, punish severely
all transgression, and assist the injured. 10. Finally, it
is not iust to bring 1 down the higher standard of four
States (West Australia, South Australia, Queensland and
Tasmania) to the lower level of two (New South Wales
and Victoria).
This is a fine sample of the church’s cheek, seeing
that it is its failure to give any decent value for
the collection-plate money that makes divorce
necessary. The bulk of divorces are granted for
desertion, and it is a fact that the church can t
get over—a fact based on the way the Creator saw
fit to fix things—that the deserted husband or
wife if not allowed to marry again, will very
probably “live in sin” instead. The church
having failed to teach people not to desert, and
having failed to teach the deserted ones the full
beauty of celibacy, and being a failure all round,
there are only three remedies: (1) To allow the
deserted person to re-marry without divorce, which
is bigamy ; (2) to decide that “living in a state of
sin” doesn’t matter and that illegitimacy is an
honorable condition; (3) to allow divorce. The
church offers no remedy ; the law offers one which
may be bad but which still is a remedy. When
the institution which can’t do it at all puts on airs
and criticises the institution which does it badly,
it is a case of the bootmaker’s ass speaking severely
to his master about the imperfections of his boots.


BRINGING
IN ITS
vV
//
/W
//
Bi
L»E
S
K
HEALTH
WAKE.
When MY SHIP COMES HOME ” is a well-known saying in every
household. It usually forms an indefinite promise to meet some juvenile
request, and literally means, “ When I attain wealth.” But there is some*
... , . t , hln B' of far more value than wealth in this life, and that is HEALTH. A
medicine which will bring back health to the long-suffering patient is of inestimable
value. BILE BEANS 808/ BILIOUSNESS has been proved in thousands of
oases to be such a medicine, and although it is not claimed that this specific will cure
e?ery 111 that flesh is heir to, there is no doubt as to its efficacy in cases of BTLIOUS-
SJ”f^ NSTIPATION . PILES, DEBILITY, FEMALE
WEAKNESSES, BAD BLOOD, PIMPLES, AND ALL SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BAD BREA IH, HEADACHE, DIZZINESS, FULLNESS AFTER EATING,
and a host of other ailments that owe their origin to defective bile flow, assimilation and
COUGHS, COLDS, INFLUENZA and RHEUMATISM. BILE BEANS are
obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers throughout Australasia, Price 13M.
per box, or you may order direct from the Australasian Depot, Bile Bean
Manufacturing 1 Co., 39 Pitt-street, Sydney
A
A
Rhymes wiili
s.
as
m
m
h
>
<£\
/
%
r
and so does
PEARS
The Gray Fleet.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The open seas sing a reckless measure
And leap untrammelled upon their way;
The coast-bound breakers in sore displeasure
Go thundering, blind, in a cloud of spray.
But deep and sad is the dreamy cadence
That fills the Sounds when the moon sweeps
low,
And swung and steadied by fair mermaidens
The shadowy hulls of the lost ships go.
From Milford Sound to the dark Pelorus
There’s never a night you will not hear
A sweet, clear song and a rolling chorus—
Now loud—now soft—as they heel and veer.
Their old sails flash with the wet sea-flowers—
Their ropes are gay with the sea-weed’s gold,
And as they travel, the passing hours
On silver bells by the watch are tolled.
Their spars with gems of the sea are laden—
Pearls of the deep and mother-o’-pearl,
And each wheel yields to a gold-haired maiden,
And each look-out is a dark sea-girl.
In Ions:, bright lines on the deep, black water
Their wakes lie swirling beneath the moon,
And every ship, where the breeze has caught her,
Is reeling wild with her bows a-spoon.
Their blocks “cheep, cheep,” and their sails are
filling
To pile sea-diamonds at their bows ;
The wash foams high, on their scarred sides
swilling,
And winds kiss curls on the sea-girls’ brows.
Silver and gold and the gems of oce m,
With girls to steer them and girls to sing,
These shadow-ships with a long, swift motion,
With steer-chains groaning and all a-swing
Pass silently through the channel narrow ;
And as they shimmer, so ghostly white,
And lay a course for the bluff Pencarrow
Their steersmen sing us a sad “Good night.”
The Sounds are dark and the channels often
Are all a-swirl with the ebbing tides,
But e’en the frowns of the grim cliffs soften
When this old fleet of the gray ships rides
The water, sailed in the gloomy dead light
By girls whose laughter is in their songs—
And each ship carries a star for head-light,
And sea-flowers cluster on green kelp-thongs.
The hills reply to their wild sea-chorus
And ring again with their mirth, but oh !
The night lies black on the still Pelorus
When these old ships and their singers go.
M.L.
QUILP N.
Society in Hobart.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In autumn it is the fashion for mainland folk
who can do so to take a holiday in cool Hobart,
garlanded with orchards, crowned by snowy Mt.
Wellington. Visitors during “the season” find
nowadays in Hobart very little to suggest to
them a strange land. It is just a small Aus-
tralian city with inferior electric trams. The rosy
faces of children are a little unfamiliar, the fre-
quency of very old people a little unfamiliar.
But, on the whole, there is not much variation
except in climate, from mainland conditions.
It was not so a dozen or so years ago, before
the days of cheap excursions, when the old Tas-
manian S.S. Co. had a monopoly of the means of
communication with Australia, and steamboat
fares were high and visitors comparatively few in
number. Then Hobart slept peacefully in old-
world quiet and cherished ideals such as those of
the days and of the circle of Jane Austen. Its
“ society ” was as radically different from that of
Melbourne and Sydney as “county society” in
Lngland differs from the “ London set.”
“ Blood” and not money was then the passport
to the “upper ten” of Southern Tasmania. If
you were “of good birth,” if your father and
grandfather had been gentlemen, your standing
was assured, even though you had no money to
entertain, lived in a poor house and wore poor
clothes. Any connection with “trade” was a
stain. As to the most honorable of occupations
Hobart agreed with Cicero in holding that it was
the tilth of the soil. A man who would be held
in contempt as a “poor coekie” by the lordly
publican and storekeepers of a N.S.W. or Vic-
torian town, in South Tasmania was a gentleman,
and his acres formed his “estate,” and from his
plough he went to his cottage to see in the sitting-
room his “ crest ” set up somewhere with its motto
in Latin. I shall never forget the sense of awful,
almost hopeless, degradation impressed upon a
litt e circle by a severe old dame, at the sin of a
little farmer’s son (whose “blood” was good) in
marrying the well-dowered daughter of a wealthy
hotel keeper. He was henceforth out of the fold
of Society, a lost sheep, with hardly any hope of
Redemption.
Of course all this was very absurd, but it had a
habit of creeping over the barriers of logic into
your heart, and whispering that after all it was
better than an aristocracy of wealth, a “society”
made up of the most successful drink-adulterators,
the sharpest stock exchange swindlers and the
cutest shopkeepers. At least there was lacking in
it the vile ostentation of wealth, in dress, in
carriages, in house-furnishings. There were in
Hobart scores of dear old-fasnioned people—who
went to Government House, and despised “trade”
with all the pathetic hate of an enraged sheep
acknowledged leaders of society and yet keeping
up their establishments on less than £3OO a year.
It was not a disgrace in Hobart, those days, for a
gentlewoman to wear the same dress, or the same
bonnet through one year, or two years. So long
as it was of clean, wholesome stuff and any rents
were darned neatly, the well-known dress moved
unabashed in the “highest circles,” proudly con-
fident that its wearer was its justification.
A land where few people had carriages, but
most could walk their 10 or 20 miles; where the
worker s wife wasn’t ashamed of her wincey, and
the gentlewoman walked abroad and condescended
to the “lower classes” in raiment which would
cause a snigger in any Toorak or Darling Point
drawing room ; where most housewives made their
own jams and simples and many baked even their
own bread South Tasmania was very sweet and
very charming, even if very undemocratic and
very muc.i behind the times. I say “ South Tas-
mania because the North of the island was from
the earliest days infected by Melbourne, and
became progressive, and looked with contempt
on the sleepy hollow around Hobart.
Straying from Hobart into the country, to the
Huon or the Derwent River banks, the same
quaint old-world spirit showed itself—little farms
ot wonderful greenness to be met everywhere
with a cow or two in the meadow, a piggery, a
poultry yard, some few acres under grain, other
tew acres under fruit, here and there a hop garden.
Ihe farmer mostly had, or was in the process of
getting, from 5 to 15 children, and lived almost
completely on the products of his own land. The
sacrifice of a pig or a sheep gave him meat —him-
self and some for his neighbors, who would recipro-
cate in kind when their killing-days came round,
ihe poultry yard, the orchard, the dairy, the
little potato patch were other sources of food
supply. He was counted a thriftless fellow who
bought from “the store” anything but clothes,
tools, sugar, tea and so on. Some even gristed a
little grain for their own oatmeal and johnny
C9/K6S.
Southern Tasmania was proud of being very
English. It was counted “the thing” to belong
to the Anglican Church, though Roman Catholi-
cism (of a type which expressly disavowed all
_ vv ith Eenianism and said nrayers for
the Queen in the church) was also highly respect-
able. Other sects were grouped together as “dis-
senters, ’ and to be a “dissenter” was counted
rather a reflection on one’s gentility. The edu-
cation system was also very English : the
humanities” were strongly insisted upon at the
colleges, and a boy had to learn Latin, and
usually also Greek. Every year, at the State
expense, two of the best scholars of the Island
were sent home” to an English University to
take degrees and bring back the flavor of pure
Oxford culture to Tasmania. The big colleges
insisted that their headmasters must be Church
ol England clergymen. Froude, the historian,
was appointed headmaster of the High School,
Hobart, once, and the appointment was cancelled
when it was found that he was not strictly
orthodox !
But all this is passing away, and Tasmania is
becoming Australianised. There are now Sunday
gatherings in the Domain, “ just like Sydney ; ”
and when you ask for strawberries and cream in
the fruit-shops you don’t get a big jugful of
Devonshire clots ” to help yourself; and you
need a bit of money to cut a dash in Hobart, and,
having the bit of money, you can cut a dash even
if you have made the cash out of beer; and
society’s dresses are unfamiliar enough to be
chronicled in the papers. Twelve years ago a
lady’s dress was generally something of “an old
establi-hed institution,” and a new gown wouldn’t
be mentioned except by vulgar people.
Hobart is much more up-to-date and all that sort
of tiling, yet, to those who knew Hobart 12 years
ago, is it happ er, pleasanter ?
F.R.
Illuminations.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was the night of the harbor illuminations in
Sydney. I was on board the Port Bathurst. She
had anchored for a couple of hours off Fort
Denison, that the passengers might see the fire-
works. We were going to Melbourne. A low
murmur of countless voices came across the
water from the black headlands, glasses tinkleu
merrily in the saloon, a few dark figures moved
about the deck. Suddenly, a sharp ring sounded
through the open skylight of the engine-room.
There was a sound of voices and hurried feet
below-the captain rushed past me towards the
bridge. He returned a moment later with the
first-mate ; they half led, half supported between
them, a tall, handsome, young fellow, who was
rapidly assuring them that “It was altogether
too d—d slow waiting here all night—can-you-
lend me-half-a-sovereign ?—there you are ! ”
“ Put him in irons,” growled the mate.
A man hurried down the deck to the group.
“ What’s wrong now ? ” he asked, in a voice that
suggested his small confidence that all was right
“Look here, Mr. Gibson,” said the captain,
speaking in a very friendly way, “ you’ll have to
do something with this friend of yours—he has
upset the ship quite enough, as it is, but, when it
comes to going on the bridge and ringing on
tull-steam ahead when we are at anchor it’s a
bit too strong.”
“ Gan you lend me half-a-sovereign ? ” said the
offender by way of apology.
“Come to bed!” said his friend leading him
away. I thought I had seen the last of him, but
I hadn t. Rockets were bursting above Fort
Denison—the men-of-war blazed with colored fires
—Strange monsters gleamed along the oily waters
when I noticed the tall youth and a man who was
not his friend fling themselves into two lounge
chairs behind the fringe of passengers that lined
the bulwark.
They lay back comfortably, and from the start
the young man did the talking. After a time he
seemed to realise that his companion was further
gone even than himself. He reached out and
shook him by the arm. “ Here—pull yourself to
gether, man—can you lend me half-a-sovereign
There you are ! ” he added, reflectively
A steward passed. “Here, steward-a counle
of whiskies They were brought, and the young
man drank his own, and with kindly but unsteady
insistence, pressed the glass to the other’s lips
“ Wake up—you’re losing all the fun,” he said
impatiently. The rockets were still flying.
They sat there for more than an hour. When
the last bomb was fired the decks again became
thronged, the chain clanked to the rattle of the
steam winch, and someone went and stooped over
the silent man. He hurried away, returning with
the doctors and others.
The young man woke up. “Can you lend me
half-a-sov., he began.
“Take him away,” said the doctor. “This
man has been dead for an hour.
PEDLAR.
The coming Amending Factories Act in
N.S.W. will, among other things, relieve the
Operative Bakers’ Union of the duty it has had
to assume of guarding the bread-supply of the
community from pollution ; the employees have
long had to protect the public, by strikes or
threats of strikes, against filthy bake-houses The
new Act, if passed, will provide for State inspec-
bakehouses and it will be possible to pro-
hibit the storage of flour and other products used
in the making of bread in a loft over a stable in
close proximity to sanitary conveniences, or' to
premises used for sleeping accommodation ; and to
enforce proper sanitary conditions in bake-houses
generally.


A Living Skeleton
Changed into a Healthy and Robust Child.
The trying weather of summer makes children drowsy, lifeless, and with-
wit energy. They lose appetite, their blood becomes impure, and they break
out in sores.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
&
9
IPL
¥
mm
A
Mrs. Emily Air, of Murray Park, Adelaide, So. Australia, very kindly sends
us a photograph of herself and family, which we reproduce above, accompanying
the same with the following testimonial:
“The trying hot weather of our summer has a very debilitating effect upon
children. They run down in health, become drowsy, lose appetite, and break
out in sores on the face and head.
“I have invariably found Ayer’s Sarsaparilla a perfect remedy for this condi-
tion. It purifies the blood, restores the appetite, and tones up the whole system.
“One of my children only twelve month old was transformed from almost a
skeleton into a healthy and robust child simply by giving it small doses of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla.”
Do you wonder, then, that people call it
“ The World’s Greatest Family Medicine”?
It is the greatest family medicine the world ever knew, good for all ages and
all conditions. When you take it you get more benefit from your food, your
blood becomes richer, your nerves are made stronger, and the whole system be-
comes filled with new life and vigor.
AYER’S Sarsapari ila
A Great Medicine for Weak Children.
Take Ayer’s Pills with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. One aids the other.
v' ■ ■ 1 v?
ayj»ggj( m w JP?3
S».
27
YEARS’ SUCCESS
AS
the UNIVERSAL REMEDY foe
Coughs, Colds.
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Hoarseness, &c.
HAS MADE
£ungTomc
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY TO EVERYBODY.
Important Notice:
SUBSTITUTION. — There are so many imitations
of this successful, and therefore 'popular, remedy that
it is of the utmost importance you should use the
word “ OWBRIDGE ’ ’ when buying Lung Tonic,
and TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE
Prepared, by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, M.P.S., Chemist, Hull.
Sold everywhere in bottles, at Is. 1 id.
2s. 9 d., 4& 6 d., & 11s., by all
Colonial Medicine Vendors.
COPYRIGHT.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of and
arousing with the Rosebud ob' Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine vn
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is ltd, and 2s 9d each.
i.irorei-re
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
.Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
ĥ
ħ
mmmm
-
w//m.
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life) Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
TBi© Langstc n Regenerator
WILL CURE
YOU
Its effects are almost instantaneous and the good results go
on increasing from day to day.
Health, Vigor, Strength
for all who
desire it.
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, permanently located in
Melbourne since 1886, originator of the Regenerator treatment, has so
perfected his method that it has revolutionised the art of Healing,
and it can almost be said there are no Hopeless or incurable
cases.
Are You a Sufferer
from bad health in
any of its many forms?
Do you feel nervous, fretful, timid and lack the power of will and
action ? Are you subject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a
disordered condition ? Do you feel weak, nervous and generally debilitated ? If so, do not fail to have the
Doctor diagnose your case. Send at once for full information and question blanks.
Seelt the Truth, it costs NTothing!
All communications are considered sacredly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, 8V3.R.C.5., Eng , cor Russell & Goflins Sts., Melbourne
•A
AUTH
02INE
BOX
%. A
<v//
Wjlf/
Crozine Blacking
is a waterproof polish that produces a brilliant and permanent
gloss, which will not rub off. Shoes polished with “ Crozine
Blacking ” wear long, because it is an oil dressing, which softens
the leather. “ Crozine Blacking ”is guaranteed to be absolutely
free from all harmful substances, and will be found to be the
most satisfactory dressing made for all walking boots and shoes.
Sold almost everywhere. If not found, write at once to
C. L. HAUTHAWAY SONS, Boston, Mass., U.SA.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER
THE ONLY WAY
TO BE CURED of Weakening and Debilitating Diseases
is to obtain the PROPER REMEDIES. We have the
REMEDY that will CURE YOU. So CONFIDENT are
we of this, that we will send a trial coarse FREE OF
CHARGE and abide by the result. Send your symptoms
and prove our statement. Address— Botanic Institute,
Victoria Chambers, Eiizabeth-st., Sydney.


FOR_^^
WATERPROOF COATS
RURBER BOOTS
- GOLOSHES
PERDRIAU and COMPANY,
(between Bond & Hunter Streets) 2TO StTo©"£ij SjfCf Il©y
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK*
h
32 & 34
Clarenoe Street,
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send for Catalogtie.
ĥ
Spoons, porks,
Celebrated
PLATE and
Pocket-Knives & Scissors cutlery
MARK.
60
TEARS DTEING
FOR THE EADIES.
■W. c. IBIiIDIE&IIDa-ZE & GO ,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
.
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York-St.
SYDNEY.
Also at
“THEE BLOCK,”
Collins-st., MELBOURNE.
S. FREEMAN # SONS L!^
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HgA D _oFFicE: WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY,
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
GAN OBTAIN
BY USING
at
&
&
o
V
4*
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- & 2/6
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
Write for Prices and Particulars of
'rK KSttiK j! : •: tote:
m
' ' l®ga is, j*;>sa: m al
■MRH
m
KNOWLES”
Steam
Best Value. Highest Efficiency.
A Large Stock of Pumps suitable for every
kind of service ready for immediate delivery.
Pumps
60 .Clarence-st., Sydney, and
533 Collins-st., Melbourne.
ħ
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
JL _ Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
H. F. GREGQiy S CO.
Machinery Merchants,
Melbourne & Sydney.
HAVE IN STOCK—
Blake's Steam Pumps.
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery.
Mundy’s Hoisting Engines-
Empire Co.’s Laundry Machinery-
American “All Steel" Pulleys-
Harris ‘‘Champion’’ Lubricating Oils.
Mason Eeducing Valves-
Ludlow Sluice Valves-^
Korting’s Injectors and Ejectors-
Tanite Emery Wheels.
The Plica [ubricant Co., South Shields, Eng.
Lubricants and Packings for all purposes. Patent Mica Grease saves 90% in cost of lubrication, and keeps
bearings perfectly cool. Patent Mica Packings last twice as long as ordinary, and are 25% lighter. The}' do
not score the rods, but put a mica surface on them, similar in appearance to electro-plate.
Sole Agent for Australasia: R. A. H-ERVEY. Depdt, 111 Clarence-st., Sydney, N.S. W
GET A GRIP OF THIS FACT.
THE ATLAS PIPE WRENCH
away ahead of all others.
h
A REALLY SPLENDID TOOL. WON’T LOCK ON THE PIPE.
10in., ss. 9d. ; 10s. ; 24in., 15s. ; 36in., 325. 6d. Easily Adjusted.
HOUSES or
ĥ
71 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Henry Skinner,
OJarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 1013.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered tor
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITOR*
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Eilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF fer
Boarders, 9s. per Day, Or from 2 Guineas per Week.
