

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
I’s London Draught Stout.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best
Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
Jhfc.
Mining
107 Kent
Sydney,
Street,
—FOB—
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
BO ILDEIiS’ am> GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
fg
INSIDE BJJARINGS.
Pitting No. 106 for Fast Wheels.
axle part round and square
attends, rivetted:
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried in vest
pocket and blown out to life-size (causes roars of
laughter), All Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket, Book of
Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin and Card
Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character), The Mafeking Grub (or
nerve-strengthener), and, last of all, that side-splitting
Yook and Laugh Glass, Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
Box 3, G.P.0., Haymarket.
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
XNEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-street, SYDNEY.
Sores Eyes' Blight!
USED 300 YEARS.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
Never fails. Restores Eyelashes .
HAD FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT.”
Ask your Chemist for this little book.
GIBSON, BATTLE &O 4 *> ntt street, SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for Samuel Osborn & Co., Sheffield, makers of Mushet’s Titanic Borer Steel for Miners’ Drills, Bessemer Steel, Cast Steel, Mushet’s
Self-Hardening' Tool Steel, Mining, Well-Boring, Spring, and Tyre Steel, Steel Castings of all Descriptions, Steel Truck Wheels and Axles.
INDENTS EXECUTED, SPECIFICATIONS SUPPLIED FOR ALL KINDS OF MACHINERY.
castings, hammers, eiees.^^
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
HELIDON SPA.
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd., Agents, Sydney.
k
uobAht.
Ijadleys Orient fjotel.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Grade).
J. A. TURNER - - Proprietor.
'-J i jj%'
Dr. J. W. GIBBS’
. . Electric Massage Rollers . .
For use on Face and Body.
For NERVOUS HEADACHES,
NEURALGIA and RHEUMATISM
-*-a specific. Removes Wrinkles.
Gold, 21/- Silver, 16/-
Post Free. Pamphlets Free.
AMERICAN AGENCY COMPANY,
Box 440, G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
Nature’s Restorative
H.M. the King’s Jury of Experts at
the London Exhibition pronounced
Penfold’s Wines “ By far and away
the best seen from Australia and
awarded them highest honors.
Gold Medal Paris.
PT&MEER
■SSI
'LEATHER
BELT IMG
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2| 3 3| 4 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
-/7 -/9 -/10J 1/- 1/2 1/6. 1/11 2/8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 2/11 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
THE WOEED-RENOWNED
Ediswau - Lamp.
EDISW
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE MI & SWAM
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch : 18 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SVONiY.
Q’nslaud Depot—Central Buildin s Edward-st,'linsbane
PIIiLA
HAIR
TONIC
3VCOST CEUTBALLT SITUATED.
OTARD-DUPUY
Estbd. 1795. 25 Years BRANDY.
m
PROOF
iO/WEViS
USE
&
Head Office:
10 BLICH ST., SYDNEY
WATERBURY WATCHES
Have Stool the Time Test, and the Test of Time,
PRICES BEING LOW and QUALITY HIGH.
The Hair Restorer of the Century.
All Chemists and Storekeepers,- 2/6 per bottle, or by post
from W. RICHARDS, Proprietor, 168 Pitt-st., Sydney
N.S.W., .3/2. Obtainable in Melbourne at G. Swift’s,
Chemist, Collins-st. ; Victorian price, 3/-. Full Course
17/2 ; Inter-State, 19/2.
SPOONER’S
hfg
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoe?.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
The Bulletin? Story Book
Price, 4s. 6d„ direct from the Publishers.
The Bulletin
Vol 23.—N0. 1160 1
[Saturday, May 10, 1902.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE LATEST BOOKS AT
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Gunter, Deacon and Actress, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, postage 6d.
MacDonald, God Save the King, 2s 6d & 3s 6d., p. 6d.
Crockett, The Dark of the Moon, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Boothby, My Strangest Case, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Denny, Deep Level Mines of the Kand, 30s, p. Is 6d.
Gerard, Sawdust, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Dana, The Decoy, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Macdonell, Story of Teresa, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Gallon, Dead Ingleby, 6s, p. 6d.
Meade, Drift, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Write to us for
Book or
We are always pleased to answer Enquiries.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) &at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane &
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
Miss Amy Castles writes
“/ have used your Eumenthol Jujubes and have
found them invaluable for the throat , particularly in
case of colds.
“ I should like to recommend them to all singers
The Great Press " Combine.”
IT is difficult to o"er-estimate the influence of
a daily newspaper on public opinion. “ The
mighty power of the press”—a wide term,
embracing all newspapers, pamphlets, and
books—has long been a common-place of polemical
discussions, no longer questioned, always granted
without reservation. That power reaches its
highest expression in the “ daily.” In the armory
of the press the daily is the most modern and
effective weapon—a Maxim machine-gun among
muzzle-loaders, quick-firing, repeating, giving
little chance of “ cover.” Its power is due to the
fact that it is able to speak at once, giving the
comment with the news ; that it is able to speak
six days in every week of the year, repeating .each
day the. same truth or the same falsehood ; and
that it is able to force its way into men’s minds,
to compel even the unwilling to see its opinions,
for it is the vehicle for the conveyance of “ news,”
and news is as much a necessity as bread to civilised
man. Few weekly newspapers, no pamphlet
can compete with the daily newspaper on even
terms in leading or misleading the public. Its
ability, its humor, its sound knowledge of
human affairs and human nature (or some less
worthy but still attractive attributes), may give
an occasional weekly, an odd'pampldet, great
vogue in a community, may give its advice almost
oracular weight among its readers. But, after all,
the influence of such a publication is, as a rule,
less in effect and more precarious in tenure than
that of a leading daily. In the first place,
the public must take a daily, or go without news ;
it can dispense with a weekly and not feel any
vital loss. Then the daily can speak at once, can
strike while the iron is hot, can give its views of
Mr. Barton’s speed) or Mr. Chamberlain’s action,
simultaneously with the publication of the report
of that speech or actiou. Days must elapse before
the weekly or the pamphlet can make its voice
heard. And meanwhile the daily is artfully
buttressing up its view, with every day a fresh
argument or a fresh appeal to prejudice.
There is a section of the public which is not led
by the nose by the mere expression of opinion, or
by the guile of specious argument —a section
which makes up its own mind in its own time on
the problems of the day. But this class in
Australia is so comparatively insignificant in
numbers that it is almost negligeable as a political
factor. It may comprise the cream of the com-
munity intellectually, but it comprehends very
few numbers. So that, to all intents and purposes,
if a community had but a single daily newspaper,
the proprietor or proprietors of that newspaper
would exercise an almost despotic power over its
politics. It would fall to that organ chiefly to make
and unmake opinions. Similarly if, with a num-
ber of daily newspapers competing for the business
of supplying news to the public, there is a “Com-
bine” or “Trust” among their proprietaries on
certain points, then, in regard to matters affected
by those points, the majority of the public is help-
less and is necessarily misled, if it is the policy of
the paper proprietors to mislead them. They are
in the position of the people in a country where
the chief lighting facilities are in the hands of a
Trust and must accept what light is given to them
—and what darkness.
That is the position of the Australian public in
respect to the daily newspapers of this continent.
These papers compete with one another on
certain points, compete very savagely in some
cases, but they form a Trust, working absolutely
unitedly, on other points. For example, they are
all combined to give the public the same version in
regard to news outside of Australasia. No daily,
under pain of the heaviest penalties, can give to
the public any exclusive cable news from Europe,
America, or Asia. AH such news comes through the
one agency ; and the people of the Commonwealth
and of Maoriland are absolutely at the mercy
of that agency for foreign news. Anything may
be suppressed, distorted, magnified, minimised ;
they can be none the wiser, for no check exists.
All the cable news sent from London, by three
men there, and it can well be imagined that
various interested persons keep well in touch with
those gentlemen—the powerful triumvirate who
are dictators of the news of the world to a popu-
lation of 6,000,000! An Imperial statesman
desiring to “ work points ” in Australasia probably
doesn’t neglect them ; one may infer as much from
the ckbles. A colonial crawler, desiring to
infect with the virus of toadyism his neighbours
out here, certainly doesn’t neglect them : one may
know that from the frequent messages recording
the social movements of these “distinguished”
persons. And from what is suppressed, blotted
out of our news by this monstrous censorship,
what might not be inferred if the public but
knew —but knew ?
But it is not only in the tangible cable syndi-
cate that the Australian daily newspapers are
united in a Trust. There are other bonds of
union, if not so easily noticeable, none the less
real. The big city merchant class, which provides
the bulk of the advertising support (the drapers,
auctioneers, drink-sellers, shipping companies,
banks, and so on); the local “ society ” class,
with which the proprietors’ wives desire to curry
favor ; and the London governing class, from
which the proprietors expect to get titles—all
these the Australian daily newspapers are com-
bined to serve, at the expense Of truth, if need
be, at the expense of independence of thought and
manliness of attitude certainly. And this combi-
nation practically stifles any political thought
which is outside the mental sphere of the drapers,
the auctioneers, and the publicans of the com-
munity, or which is liable to give offence either to
local Society or to- London Court circles. Such
thought may find expression in an occasional
weekly, powerful expression perhaps, but, after
all, that doesn’t compensate. The combined
daily newspapers which can lie six times a week,
and suppress a fact (so far as the great bulk of
the community are concerned) for ever ; and which
must be read because they are the newspapers,
are able to overwhelm in a flood of falsehood any
voice raised up for truth. Occasionally, as was
the case when the Labor Party burst into Aus-
tralian politics, a section of the people, by platform
organisation, successfully defies the daily press.
But, that notwithstanding, this generalisation is
true : that, usually, the mass of the people, the
compact majority which speaks at election times,
is almost the slave of the daily press, so
far as those points are concerned on which
the daily press is combined. Sometimes a
newspaper chafes at the bonds of the “Com-
bine,” but is soon brought to reason by the
advertising influence. In a daily newspaper a
great amount of capital is embarked (in a morning
journal of the first rank at least £300,000) ; and
capital is ever timid for its dividends. During a
recent great Australian industrial upheaval
one newspaper strove to take up an inde-
pendent attitude, and not to join in the commer-
cial class cry for Gatling guns as arguments on a
wages question. It joined in the chorus when a
deputation of auctioneers had seen the manage-
ment. At the outbreak of the S’African war, one
daily (most of the members of whose literary staff
were opposed to the war), tried to be a little less
pro-Gore, and a little more reasonable than its
contemporaries. But the advertising section of
the community, the Stock-Exchange boodlers and
the flag-selling drapers and the publicans with a
prophetic eye to “ Mafeking night,” spoke, and
that paper had to swing round and give a special
batch of Boer atrocities all “on its own,” to atone
for its previous attitude.
In short the daily press in Australia has
been absolutely captured by the moneyed classes
and the tuft-hunting classes. The process is even
more complete than in England, where the foreign
Jew and the American have been “combining”
public opinion so extensively of late. In London,
Manchester, and other great English cities, one
may still find newspapers taking a dissentient
view of Chamberlainism. But not so in Australia.
Here whilst the big daily papers agree to differ on
Freetrade and Protection, and on other points of
politics, they are absolutely one in suppressing all
Australian National spirit; in truckling to the
Jingo-militaristic party in England; in dis-
countenancing any movement towards greater
Liberty of popular thought and action ; in mis-
representing the news of the outside world. It is
not possible to correct one by the other: the
Trust works too well for that. The result of this
state of things, which has now existed for some
decades, is that a people—which promised in its
early gold-digging days, the times of Lalor, of
Lang, and of the young Henry Parkes, to carry
the standard of freedom in the van of all nations—
has degenerated until it has become a bye-word
for lickspittle-loyalism and title-hunting toadyism,
for intolerance of freedom of speech and for
insane Jingoism. Australia, urged on by her
daily newspapers, has entered upon enterprises,
such as the insane wholesale'borrowing policy and
the equally insane wholesale contingenting policy,
which must lead to the gravest national difficulty,
if not to absolute’disaster. And the tale of follies,
which a'press representing solely a commercial
class (that cares no more for Australia as Aus-
tralia than it does for Hong-Kong, and pursues
ever the dividend of to-day reckless of the disaster
of to-morrow) has instigated, and even now insti-
gates, is not by any means completed by these
two instances. It is not, indeed, too much to say
that the daily press is the evil genius of Austra-
lian freedom.
The proposed new daily paper in Sydney will
do nothing to better things. It will be just an
addition to the sup-Press, with the slight varia-
tion that it will try to right certain little griev-
ances which Mr. Barton and others have,
because the big Sydney dailies are unanimous
in disagreeing with their fiscal opinions.
There is no intention on the part of its
promoters to remedy the grievance which demo-
crats have because all the big dailies of the con-
tinent are un-Australian. Some day, however,
it is possible-—may Heaven grant it ! that a
sound, honest, able, experienced Radical, a man
whose convictions are a part of himself, will
be in the financial position to found a daily paper
in Australia—a paper large enough to give all the
news of the day in handy condensed form ; small
enough to be fairly independent of advertisers
and absolutely independent of advertisers who
wish to influence its policy ; so well managed as
to pay its staff 50 and 100 per cent, above the
rates now ruling in the big “ sweating dailies,” and
consequently seouring the men brightest to write
and most skilful to'judge public affairs available
in Australia. Such a paper, voicing Australian
aspirations first and last, as independent of Lon-
don titles as of foreign warehousemen’s advertise-
ments, giving to the public in bright and breezy
fashion, with absolute fearlessness of comment,
the news of the day, rejecting,all the slush news
with which so many of the columns of the average
daily are fitted now, and condensing the maun-
derings of notoriety-seeking politicians as severely
as the maunderings of notoriety-fearing police-
court offenders, would be a great power for free-
dom and progress. And it would be also a magni-
ficent speculation,
F.R.
The Race-War in Queensland.
SOME reminiscences (published in a London
paper) by Mrs. Campbell-Praed of early
Queensland days, and of outrages by the
blacks, are interesting but very one-sided.
Mrs. Praed gives the story only from a “white ”
point of view—the story of women beleaguered by
the aborigines at out-stations when the men-folk
were away, of foul murders, and of grim pioneers
forced to ever carry the carbine at the ready. The
lady reminds a reader of Tom Hood, who prayed to
be taken to some sunny isle “ amid the murmurs of
the deep, where the whites for ever smile and the
blacks for ever weep.” She makes no mention,
for instance, of the indiscriminate shooting and
burning of 28 men, women, and children at Myall
Creek, which gave John Hubert Plunkett the
opportunity for a rare vindication of justice, as
between blacks and whites. It took two trials to
sheet home to the eight, ruffians who were
involved in the massacre responsibility for their
actions; but Plunkett (then Attorney-General)
was indefatigable and inexorable—and the Judge
was Chief Justice Howling.
In the'early days of Queensland, blacks were
shot down like wallabies and poisoned in whole-
sale fashion by arsenic mixed with flour. At a
later date they were, in parts of the colony,
practically exterminated by raids of the native
police, under the leadership of such sanguinary
white officers as Fred. Walker (famed afterwards,
and more honorably, as an explorer). A man of
good social position, living in Queensland to this
day, proudly exhibits a rifle, the stock of which
is criss-crossed with notches —a notch for every
aboriginal that the weapon had brought down.
Conflict between the races must have b4gun
with the first British occupation of the Moreton
Bay District. Captain Logan was Commandant
of the little settlement at Brisbane from 1825 to
1830, when his career was brought to a tragic
close. An enthusiastic explorer and an ardent
DOtanist, he set forth at the head of an exploring
party. Most of his men were prisoners of the
Drown, with long-standing scores to wipe-out
against their iron-willed leader. They returned to
Brisbane without their chief, whose body was
afterwards found by Captain Clunie (his suc-
cessor) pierced with a spear and battered, appa-
rently with waddies. The murder was promptly
charged against the blacks, though there is little
doubt that it was the work of Logan’s bond-
Followers. However, the ease with which the
latter shunted the responsibility of the murder
from their own shoulders is proof enough that the
relations between the two races were somewhat
more than strained even then. The blacks of
Queensland were always more daring, more warlike
and more enterprising than their southern kinsmen
in New South Wales and Victoria. They were
better fed, and more numerous. But castaways
from ships, and convicts escaped from the penal
settlements, generally met with kind treatment at
their hands, as the narratives of Pamphlet, Davis
(“ Durramboi ”), Bracefield (“Wandi”), Morrill,
and Pelletier show. Against their kindness in
such individual cases there are a score or so of
outrages to be entered on the debit side. But
who was the first offender? An accredited writer
on the subject makes this charge against the
squatters of the period :
The historian who has ransacked 'the repertoires of
official records, and has sought information from the sur-
vivors among the early pioneers and colonists, cannot but
admit that poisoning was a common resource in dealing
with the wild blacks. The universal use of arsenic for
sheep-dipping placed the means within the reach of all
who chose to use it. Generally, it was the isolated
shepherd or stockman who thus relieved himself of
menacing enemies as treacherous as himself. But such tra-
gedies were generally insusceptible of proof. They formed
the text of yarns round the camp-fire and in the shearers’
hut, just as) within the recollection of men not now past
middle age in northern Queensland, exciting accounts of
battues of blackfellows were as common as sporting
narratives of riding-down dingoes or emus, and bringing
them to earth with a blow from a stirrup-iron, swung at
the end of the stirrup-leather, detached for the purpose,
while the rider dashed along at a gallop. On the fron-
tiers everybody knew all about it, but a certain reserve
was maintained in general conversation. Names were
omitted, arid localities merely hinted at. Some squatters
stood out against the prevailing influence, and did their
best to keep on kindly terms with the natives about.
Some encouraged and protected them to “come in” to
the head station. This was generally condemned as
unwise, and even foolhardy, and several tragedies
supported that view.
Captain Coley, when giving evidence before a
select committee of the Queensland Parliament,
produced an official report by Captain Wickham,
which gave the number of white men killed by
blacks, from the time when he took charge of the
settlement in 1842 up to 1852-3, at 174 ; and Cap-
tain Coley estimated the number who had thus
perished up to 1861 (.a period of 19 years) at 250.
White history is ominously silent as to the num-
ber of aborigines poisoned and otherwise done *to
death by the settlers during the same period.
Plunkett did not, unfortunately for the sacred
caused of even-handed justice, leave any succes-
sors among the Attorney-Generals of Queensland.
Viewing the evidence impartially there can be
little doubt that the white settlers were the first
aggressors. Davis, or “Durramboi,” told the
following story to old Andrew Petrie, who pre-
served it in writing. Kilcoy Station was situ-
ated on the upper reach of the Brisbane River,
and was owned by Evan Mackenzie. At this
place were slaughtered, in wholesale fashion, men,
women arid children belonging to one of the abo-
riginal tribes. The murders were perpetrated by
mean's of arsenic mixed with the flour which was
given to the blacks for food. Henry Stuart Russell
describes “Durramboi’s” way of telling the grue-
some yarn. He became all “blackfellow” during
the recital, and illustrated his narrative with panto-
mimic gestures, imitative of the convulsions and
writhings of the wretched victims of the virulent
poison. Russell charges with the crime two
lonely shepherds on Evan Mackenzie’s run, who
had been terrified out of their senses and rendered
desperate by the menacing demeanor of a mob of
blacks. But, according to evidence given before
a select committee of the first Queensland Parlia-
ment, the crime was committed at the head-station
itself, during the absence of its owner.
A historical encounter took place between the
belligerent races along the course of a new track
leading from Ipswich to the mountains, where the
aborigines showed themselves exceptionally bold
and hostile. The battlefield was not far from what
is now Helidon railway station. There the
attendants and drivers of a caravan of bullock-
drays were set upon by a formidable mob of
aborigines, and were obliged to bolt for their lives.
Once off the field, the drays were looted, and their
contents consumed or destroyed. The settlers
made vigorous reprisals. They mustered every
man that could with safety be spared from the
stations. Then an organising foray upon the
plunderers was planned, and the whites drove
the aborigines from their stronghold, and forced
them to seek refuge on the boulder-strewn slopes
of ,a peculiar table-topped mountain, to which
Allan Cunningham had given the name of Hay’s
Peak, and which the white forces took by assault.
A ‘number of the blacks perished, but the spirit
of the survivors remained untamed. It took, at
length, a detachment of soldiers to restore security
to the route.* These, troops had to be permanently
quartered at the foot of the Main Range before
the road again became safe for travellers. Some
while after, in the Maranoa district, about four
or five hundred blacks combined on one occasion
to attack a station ; but they were beaten off
while trying to storm a hut in which the hands
had entrenched themselves.
The brothers Frank and Alexander Jardine,
while driving a path through almost impenetrable
bush towards the apex of Cape York Peninsula,
had literally to fight their way through battalions
of blacks. Leichhardt had bitter experience of
hostile natives, who killed Ins naturalist and
severely wounded two others of his party.
Edmund Kennedy, the explorer of Cape York
Peninsula, met his death at the hands of the
blacks, as did also nine out of eleven of his white
followers. ,
Captain Griffin, living at Pine River, a day’s
ride from Brisbane, was full of reminiscences of
the blacks in the early days. He had had three
white men killed on his run ; away, of course,
from the head-station. His father having been a
sea-faring man, he was used to armed ships. (He
had served “ Exmouth ” Cochrane at the bom-
bardment of Algiers.) So the old warnor never
left the homestead undefended. He had a ship’s
swivel gun brought up, and mounted it upon a
stump in front of the house, building a frame
over it, and covering it on top. Once or twice,
when there was a lot of blacks about, foregather-
ing for the bunya season, the ancient mariner had
his weapon of might loaded chock-a-block with
grape and canister, and blazed away with the idea
of inculcating a moral lesson.
The first of Griffin’s men to be assaulted by the
blacks was an old man named Campbell, a
prisoner of the Crown, sent out for killing a
sheep with which to feed his starving wife and
family. He was at the back of his hut when a
tomahawk struck him, just where the nose joins
the forehead, splitting the bone of the nose, and
knocking both his eyes out of their sockets. The
old man swiftly felt his way along the hut till he
reached its open door. He slammed it close and
groped about until he found his musket. Then he
began firing furiously through the chinks between
the slabs. He was, of course, not able to see, and
his shots were wild, but at the head station, a
mile and a-half away, the firing was heard and
wondered at. The Griffins saddled up, armed
themselves, and rode out to the rescue. They
found poor old Campbell ramming with a
mad eagerness, a fresh charge. On his frontal
bone was a horrid gash. His face was covered
with blood. His eyeballs had sprung from their
sockets. The old man'was taken to Brisbane for
treatment, and ultimately regained both sight and
health. A little while after his return to the
station one of the Griffin boys found that the
savaged old fellow had shot a black, skinned him,
stuffed the hide with dry grass, and had swung
the weird thing on a rude gallows outside the door
of his hut. Thereafter, the aborigines kept miles
away from the vengeful shepherd.
On the south bank of the Mary River squatted
at one time a shanty-keeper named Furber. The
place was erstwhile a run belonging to John
Bales, of the Hunter River; but the run had been
abandoned on account of bad times and the
ferocity of the blacks. Furber, however, remained.
The timber-getters wanted rum, and were able to
pay for it. Sometimes the shanty-keeper would
get a blackfellow to do an odd job for him. Once
this happened, and the native was digging a post-
hole. Hard-by, Furber was squaring a post, using
a broad-axe. The aborigine handled his spade
awkwardly, and the shanty-keeper went over to
show him how to dig. Thoughtlessly Furber
handed the axe to the black and took the spade
himself, stooping over the post-hole. Then came
a blow on the neck, the weighty, keen-bladed
broad-axe sinking deep into the flesh. The black
bolted. When Furber came to his senses he ban-
daged his wound in some sort, caught and saddled
his horse, and rode to Ipswich (by the roads of the
time 150 miles distant) for surgical treatment. He
recovered, and survived for years. Ultimately,
with a son-in-law, he was slaughtered by the
blacks while timber-getting in a scrub on Tinana
Creek, a feeder of the Mary River.
In order to show the duration of the feud between
the races it is, finally, sufficient to mention that
as recently as 1800 there was not a single
settler at Saudgate ; and where picnickers now
stroll about and saunter away a summer’s day
a small party of men landed, and were promptly
murdered bv the blacks. This tragedy led to the
establishment on that spot of a native-police
Station to assure security for the future. Sandgate
is now a pleasure resort and a place of sea-side
villas. It is about 14 miles from Brisbane, and
yet only 42 years ago no one dared approach it.
The tragedy of Hornet Bank, on the Dawson
River, when 11 men, women and children were
murdered by the blacks, and the wholesale
slaughter of the Wills family on the Bareoo, were
incidents of this racial war. Mrs. Praed’s version
to a London paper is correct enough, so far as it
goes, but gives, as I’ve said, only’ the one side of
the case. The other side is not likely to be popu-
lar in London, where it is the fashion just now to
believe firmly in England’s invariable humanity as
a coloniser, and indeed to declare forfeit the goods
and lands of small peoples who do not treat their
niggers just as they ought to be treated.
F.J.B.
Frederic Harrison, the great Positivist, author
of one thousand (at least) review articles, has
definitely retired on his laurels, aged 70. For the
future he lives apart from public life.
Some correspondents—
J.R. : Your English horror that an Australian officer
(re “ F.R.’s ” article on Morant, 19/4/’O2) should presume
to set himself up as the equal of the “ English gentleman
officer who has had £5OO spent on his education, and
has been examined in two languages ” (useful that for
swearing, certainly) isn’t borne out by facts. Arguing
from history, the carefully-educated, carefully-drilled,
examined-in-a-score-of-subjects officer has always made a
poor show beside the natural fighter. Compare the Boer
officers as against the English officers in this war ! Do
you remember Macaulay on that English gentlemanly,
carefully-drilled general who superseded Peterborough in
Spain, drew up his forces after the best models and the
most correct authorities, and in four hours—lost some
thousands of foot and all his guns and baggage ?
S.T.S.: This gem of Morant’s—
“ ‘Love me little, love me long’—
Laggard lover penned such song ;
Rather, Nell!—in other style—
Love me much, a little while! ”
is perfect as it stands ; final, inevitable. Read it through
twice, and you seem to have known it always. There
indeed is the one haunting doubt. Does not one already
know it sub-consciously (or otherwise) ? Anacreon,
Horace, Herrick, Tom Moore—has not some one or more
of them said it before ? Only fair, however, to say that
this is merely a candid question, not an implied asser-
tion. One would much prefer to think that this pearl is
of purely Australian production—as its setting presum-
ably is, beyond all question. [The challenge is thus
thrown down to discover the source of this gem—or to
leave it for all time to Morant.]


M c DOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POI SONOUSDIP.
M DOUGALL BROS., 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
AGENTS:
N.Z. L. & M.A. Co., Ltd., Australia and New Zealand : Strachan, Oheedle & Co., Adelaide; J. B. Curran, Hobart
h
Kangaroo,
Wallaby,
Rabbit,
Opossum
Send to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO.,
and so obtain utmost possible prices.
Undeniable Figures prove that our PERFECT and TJP-TO-DATE
system of handling Wool meets with full appreciation from Woolgrowers.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO. Ltd.
SYD3XTEY. ———
During the Season 1901-2 we offered at auction 53,343 bales, and sold
at auction and privately ex Catalogue 56,202 bales, thus firmly
establishing: ourselves as the LEADING Wool"semng _ Brokers - of Sydney on
account of COUNTRY CONSIGNORS.
We invite inspection of our popular TRUST A/c System and of the figures given above.
N.B.—Our Figures do NOT include private Sales of Uncatalogued Wool. George Maiden, Manager.
KING
2h.p. to 100h.p.
MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
fg
hfg
h
Noiseless Uuderwater .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J. F.
Telephone 2671.
WITH THE KINC ENGINE— ONE LEVER CONTROLS THE WHOLE.
2VL cDB R. M O T T & C O 3VE F A. KT "ST,
37 MARKET STREET, SYD3NTEY.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK; Price, 4s. 6(1
HAVE THE
BEST.
( 'l
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE
Is built by a light, handy machine, easily operated, which will weave
THREE CHAINS OF FENCE AN HOUR.
The Lateral Wires are two-ply cable of best Gal. Steel Wire intersected by Crimped Steel Pickets
securely intenvoven at any desired distance apart, forming a perfect Web Fence which will hold
securely all kinds of Stock.
FOE CATALOGUES AND PAETICULAES
“CYCLONE” WOVEN WIRE FENCE CO.,
128 Franklin St., Melbourne ; 143 Sussex St., Sydney.
WONDERFUL VALUE IN CIGARS.
SINGLE BOX AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
GUARANTEE: EVERT CIGAR SOUND AND IN PERFECT CONDITION.
, Goods Exchanged or Money Returned.
CIGARS
DELIVERED FREE OF DUTY AND CHARGES.
SEND FOR
OUR
LIST
OF
fg
BRIAR
PIPES
TOBACCO MERCHANT and IMPORTER,
MICK SIMMONS,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 Per Cent, to the Growers.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers.
HUMAN POISONS . . .
and THEIR ANTIDOTE.
The Blood in the course
of its circulation be-
comes laden with vari-
ous poisons produced in
the human body by the
mere act of living.
T t is the province of the
Kidneys and Liver to
filter and extract these
poisons from the blood.
When the Kidneys and
Liver are unhealthy the
poisons remain in the
body and give rise to
such diseases as
Indigestion
Dyspepsia
Biliousness
Sick Headache
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Backache
Sciatica
Ansemia
General Debility
Blood Disorders
Bright’s Disease
Gravel
Bladder Troubles
All these diseases are
caused by Urinary and
Biliary Poisons being
deposited in the mus-
cles or joints, or being
retained in the blood.
Warner’s Safe Cure,
by its specific action
upon the Kidneys and
Liver, causes these
poisons to be naturally
eliminated and expelled
from the body. *
The disease is then
cured permanently.
Explanatory Pamphlet post free
on application to
H. H. Warner & Co.,
Ltd.,
Australasian Branch, Melbourne,
VICTORIA.
hfg
Explanatory Pamphlet post free
on application to
H. H. Warner & Co.,
Ltd.,
Australasian Branch, Melbourne,
VICTORIA.


hfg
We II
want to give
you a little light
on how to improve
your looks and save your
.money at the* same*?time.
We want to prove to you that
house in Melbourne can produce r for the'same
money anything like the
FAMOUS
DRESS SUITS
that we offer
for the price
£4 4s
Silk lined and
handsomely finished
Every man who cares for his personal appearance should
pay us a visit.
Up-to-date Cutters, First-class Hands, and Newest Material.
IV e can’t prove this to you unless you give us the chance.
The chance is all we ask.
London Tailoring Depot
BOURKE ST. (Opp. G.P.O.J I
F. S. Meyers, Manager,
MELLIN’S
FOR INFANTS FOOD AND INVALIDS.
Is adapted for use from birth.
Send for Pamphlet and Samples to GOLLIN & CO., 562-4, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
50, Clarence Street, Sydhey; Grenfell Street, Adelaide ; and Wellington.
Mellln’s Food Company for Australia and New Zealand, Ltd., 56, Gannon Street, London, Eng.
LOVELY COLORS.
BRILLIANT
GLOSS.
REJECT
IMITATIONS.
m
■
m
SPINALIS
oxidised 1
UN AM EL. (i
ERFECT
" 1
I
■ ..
:
SiHriEHril
LONDON'
mm
S.E
'Am
mm
See that Aspinall’s name
and Medals are stamped
on every Tin.
MANUFACTURED BY
ASPINALL’S ENAMEL, Ltd., NEW CROSS,
LONDON, ENG.
PRIMUS
KEROSENE-'
BATH HEATER
hfg
h
fgh
fg
HOT . .
. . WATER
V^-TT.Y
NO
PLUMBERS'
WORK
REQUIRED
IN
FIXING.
SEND
FOR
CATALOGUE
Large Stock of Bath. Heaters, suitable for Gas or
Chips—from 50s. each.
BRANDT BROS.,
236 PITT STREET,
. . . SYDNEY
and 422 & 421 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne,
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, aud all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdicstke & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdicstke & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Dyspeptic Emesis
A LONG PERIOD OF SUFFERING.
A Permanent Cure in Newtown.
The Case of Mrs. G. WALKER.
(For the “Independent.”)
A subject necessarily inviting to all, and
the discussion of which has of late years
employed many able pens, was recently
touched upon by Mrs. (Gertrude Walker, of
No. 17 George-street, Newtown, when chat-
ting with our special representative.
“ It is in reference to the most effective
means of getting rid of one’s jersonal
enemies that I wish to speak to you,” said
Mrs. Walker, “ and I think that I am
entitled to speak on the subject because my
liver was out of order for a long time and
my sufferings were extraordinary, I am
twelve years older since my troubles began
with an attack of neuralgia, which I
endured for three months without abate-
ment. The tei rific pains lodged in the back
of my head at first, then they affected my
gums, which became very sore, making it
impossible to properly mas i;ate my food,
and then the tortures shot up to my eyes.
Later on there was not a part of my head
which escaped the maddening agonies of
neuralgia, and often I thought they would
drive me out of my mind.”
“ I expect you got but very little sleep ?”
enquired the writer.
“ Sleep was denied me altogether,” re-
sponded Mrs. Walker. “Often I have paced
the floor for hours when everybody else has
been fast asleep, aed when morning came I
was not fit for anything. My nerves were
all of a shake, nervousness having such a
hold upon me that I was afraid of my own
shadow, and when a knock came to the door
it caused me to tremble so violently that I
could scarcely move. I was afraid at every
turn, an idea being in my mind continually
that somebody was standing behind me,
though when I looked round there was
nobody, and I could only reproach myself
for my folly. Still, I could not help feeling
timid, and to be so every moment of the day
had the effect of making me fretful and
despondent. I lost flesh till I became as
thin as a skeleton, for which I blame my
poor app< tite and the trouble I had in keep-
ing my food down,' My stomach was in a
dreadfully weak condition, a fact which
accounted for the frequent fits of vomiting
I had, for it was all the same in effect what
kind of food I took—it would not stay
down. Many a time I thonght I was going
to be suffoi ated by the sense of oppression
in my chest, for when it was at its worst I
had to gasp for breath in a most alarming
way. I could not make out what was
wrong a little distance below my neck.
There seemed to be something pricking me
there —a very tantalising sensation—although
at other times the pain was as great as if I
had strained myself. I cannot imagine
anything more vile than the taste which was
in my mouth, and to make it more un-
pleasant still there was a coating on my
tongue which made me feel quite sick. On
arising from bed I was distressed by the aches
running through my legs and across my
loins, for they set at defiance any attempt I
might make to do any light work about the
house, although at the best of tinus I was
so easily overpowered by exhaustion that I
had to let matters take their own course.”
“Did you obtain advice from any
source ? ”
“ I should rather think so. A doctor
from Sydney was doing his best for me, yet
I cannot say there was anything satisfactory
resulting from his treatment. lam sure his
medicines did not benefit me, because my
internal troubles multiplied week by week.
If I walked a few yards I was brought to a
standstill by an attack of giddiness, and on
many occasions when I walked a little
distance in the garden a mysterious sensa-
tion come over me which made it appear
that the further I walked the further the
fence seemed to be away. And then my
heart gave rise to serious reflections. The
slight est excitement or exertion always caused
it to flutter and throb, but even when I was
sitting ttill it used to suddenly start pal-
pitating with such vengeance that its
be itings could be heard quite distinctly.
The shaip pains which ran through my heart
from time to time also lent color to the idea
that it wasdiseased ins< me wayor other, and
as the physic I was taking did not alleviate
my sufferings in the least, it appeared
certain that I was going to be an invalid
for life. With my yellow skin and my
features distorted by the physicial agony
and the anxiety of mind I was enduring, f
looked as if my days were almost numbered,
but now, thank Heaven, there is a great
difference in my appearance, and although
I am over thirty years of age, I feel as young
ami active as a girl of sixteen.”
“Can you account for such a wonderful
transformation.”
“ Easily. Clements Tonic did it, and only
for an old friend who told me about that
medicine I might still be suffering, or per-
haps be dead, as nothing else could cure me.
Several days passed before I felt any better
by taking Clements Tonic, and I was
beginning to think that it was no benefactor
of mine, but I kept on with it and then [
commenced to feel revived. The neuralgic
pains, I uoticed, were dying away, and then
they suddenly stopped ; but although this
was a great relief, I was more concerned
about my internal organs, and I was in a
state of painful suspense as to whether
Clements Tonic was equal to the occasion
Sure enough it was. I became regular in
all my habits, freed from the unpleasant
taste in my mouth, my tongue was cleansed,
and I had an appetite to enjoy my food.
The wind which used to arise from my
stomach did not form now, and I never had
the least inclination to vomit my food. 1
thought this was a remarkably satisfactory
test of the merits of Clements Tonic,
and when my first purchase was exhausted
I got more, as I meant to get quite well
whilst I had the chance. From that time
onwards I gained strength by leaps and
bounds. As regularly as I lay down to rest,
I had calm and refreshing sleep, and I
did appreciate it after passing so many
wretched nights not long before. lhe
freedom with which I could draw my breath
was evidence that my digestive organs were
being benefited 1 y the use of Clements
Tonic, and as my heart had resnn ed its
normal pulsation, without e\er paining me
either, I knew that it was not diseased, hut
that my anxious fears had been induced by
the bad state of my liver. For my nervous
system there was nothing I had taken which
could approach Clements Tonic for general
excellence, as my nerves were left without
a tremor and I could walk anywhere in the
dark without any fear. By adhering
to the use of Clements Tonic for some weeks
I became as healthy as I have ever been, and
for several years my constitution has beni
perfectly sound. If these admisssons will
assist people similarly afflicted, you nun
publish them in any way you please.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Gertrude Walker, of 17 George-street.
Newtown, in the State of New South Wats,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and sin
cerely declare that I have carefully read ti e annexed
document, consisting of five folics, and ccnsecutnely
numbered from one to five, and that it contaii s ui d
is a true and faithful account of my illness and ture
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full per-
mission to publish in any way my statements
which I give voluntarily, without receiving a,i y
payment; and I make this so’emn declaration
conscientiously believing the same to be tiue, and
by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
lit.
Subscribed and declared at Newtown this seven-
teenth day of Febiuary, one thousand nine hundred
and two, befoie, me
FREDERICK JONES, IP.
ENO’S
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
‘FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
SA LT.’
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. O. ENO, Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, ENG.,
by J. C. ENO’S Patent.


Anaemia for Years
“After trying many things I per-
suaded her to take Scott s
Emulsion ”
To see many of the hurrying thousands
in the streets of London you might almost
believe that modern conditions of life
left them no chance to look other than
pale and ill—they seem so anaemic. Yet
they need not:
“ 6, The Parade, Bounces Road,
« Lower Edmonton, London, England,
“November 19th, 1900.
“ Dear Sirs, —Will you allow me to add
my testimony as to the efficacy of Scott s
Emulsion ? I had lately an in-door patient
who had suffered from anaemia for years
and was altogether in a bad state of health.
After her confinement she seemed to really
get weaker day by day, instead of stronger.
After trying many remedies, I persuaded her
to take Scott’s Emulsion. She did so and
NURSE F. ROBERTSON.
(From a photograph.)
has rapidly gained strength, and has now
gone to her own home determined to con-
tinue taking Scott’s Emulsion, as she is
oonfident it has saved her life. I have also
given it to my sister’s baby of four months,
and with great benefit. We find the child
has increased in weight ten ounces in one
week.—l remain, yours respectfully,
“(Signed) F. Robebtson, L. 0.5.,
“ Certified Midwife.”
Anaemia maybe shortly described as “poor
blood.” It is obvious if you enrioh poor
blood, provide it more and more with the
red corpuscles that stand for life, you will
do away with “poor blood” and in its
place provide the body with that red, natural
blood which ensures full, generous health.
For thirty years there has been gathering
in all countries of the earth an immense
mass of testimony—from physicians and
nurses, from professional men and women,
from adult patients and children of all ages
—testimony directed to one point, namely,
that for quick enrichment of poor blood
there is nothing to equal Scott’s Emulsion.
Scott’s Emulsion is a scientifically blended
remedy cod-liver oil with hypophos-
phites of lime and soda. The first it is
which so promptly enriches the blood—the
second and third are bone and tissue build-
ers. Together the three combined, as they
are combined only in Scott’s Emulsion, form
t&e standard remedy for all impoverishing
diseases. To take Scott’s Emulsion is to
take draughts of life.
A distinguished physician who made com-
parative tests reports: “ Scott’s Emulsion is
three times as efficacious as the same amount
oj common cod-liver oil."
The genuine Scott ? s Emulsion has as a
trade mark a picture of a man carrying a
big fish—if this picture is absent you
cannot know what you are buying; if it is
on the wrapper you are protected.
You can obtain a sample of Scott’s Emulsion
by sending fourpenceto Scott & Bowne, Ltd ; ,
483 Kent-street, Sydney, and mentioning this
paper. All chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
hfg
THIS NEW
fashionable
Mount,
TWO TIPS WITH
OSPREYS,
,In black, white,
cream, or black
tipped with white.
3/-
the Bunch
Post Free.
We make this
special offer to
advertise onr
OSTRICH TIPS.
Write To-day. Send Postal Note?. Mention this paper.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Bourke & Swanston Sts.. Melbourne.
I’ll Try It”
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
3F
imp
The Result.
CRAIG & AITKEN, N.s .W. Barber’s Supply
House, 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand,
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per cent,
of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KMOU&V*
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10Sr
H. Hillier,
ISO Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
&2T Send for a
Catalogue.
hfg
Bent - Shaft Sulkies
£lO IKb.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Right Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussexrstreet.
w :MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send.particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
P LAY E R’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
: K\- r A •
mmwiiiii
> -,
::
I
'••UlPitu
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales—
M. RUTTY & GO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria—
<l. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia—
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaida
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland —
Thos. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Philp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
' "a smania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin & Co.
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christchurch.
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
BY
“Steele Rudd.”
f <r
Lime-Fruit Juice Sauce
The basis of which is “Montserrat ” Lime-Fruit Juice.
Far Superior to
all otHer Sauces.
■ *
AGENTS— Elliott Bi>os. Ltd., J. Connell & Co., D. Mitchell & Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
MART ELLS
“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
The Lancet.
h
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
When In town, pay ns a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description oi
SADDLERY! If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, t 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE. —Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 P«<
e nt more for your requirements’
193 to 195 Cleveland L-street, Redfern, SYON«<
OUK SPECIAL \o. 2
£8 18/6
fgh
Oelirered at any Wharf or
'•'.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Australians Yet!
1 saw a Track shine out across
The weariness and strife,
And on it marched a Band that was
The Vanguard of our Life.
A small but loyal troop of men,
With shining eyes and souls,
That left the western gaol-pen
For Freedom’s far, white goals.
They were our Nation’s pioneers—
The star-life of our day ;
Within their straining hearts and ears
There rang the Call: “ away ! ”
“Away, beyond the shackling Laws;
Beyond the empire-crest,
Away, away, away —your Cause
Lies Eastward —curse the West! ’"
• • • • •
A small, great-hearted band it was,
A troop of marching men ;
They bore the dear, gum-fashion’d Cross—
There were Australians then !
They were our country’s Pioneers,
The warriors in advance,
And were—by Faith’s own royal tears—
The first Australians!
West, where the sinking ships go down,
Like plummet souls to sleep,
Their vanguard hearts refused to drown
Within the turgid deep.
Adown the track their spirits strode
Unto the gleaming East.
A turn ... a bend within the road—
The stars and Freedom’s feast!
They knelt before this god with lips
A-tremble in the light
Of suns that drowned in red eclipse
The dull gray moons of Night.
They knelt, as I who write shall kneel,
As ye who read shall, too,
One hand upon the blood-marked steel,
One filled with faded Rue.
One god there is in all the host
Worth bend of true man’s knee,
And East he holds his Pentecost—
My god of Liberty !
With pains and woes and many tears
Ye say the Road is set ?
I see a track blazed down the Years,
We’ll be Australians yet!
GRANT HERVEY.
In the Street.
Passed me in the street to-day
Girl of long ago—
Dainty form encased in grey,
Neck of purest snow ;
Didn’t even look my way,
Phiz she didn’t know.
Trams and ’buses disappeared,
Came the long-ago;
I was bringing up the rear
Of a squadron slow ;
Tramping through the desert drear
Tracks that dead men go.
Gleam afar of station roofs,
Out-sheds close at hand,
Ring of maddened horses’ hoofs,
Scatter of our band :
All but one—who stood and took
His chances in his hand.
Made a hero of me then—
Dainty girl in grey ;
When you saw the sun agaro
In my arms you lay ;
And to day—God pity men !
Didn’t look my way.
Blood wood trees at Prosser’s Bend—
Oh, that Sunday ride !
When our passion free, unpenned,
Found no cause to hide ;
Every tree about the Bend
Shook its head and sighed !
You could love a rouseabout,
And not count it shame ;
When the old man found it out
I took all the blame—
Shouldered bluey, turned about,
Went the way I came.
Better days have found me out,
Money’s come and stayed ;
But a happier rouseabout
Held a bright bush maid
Whilst she sobbed her passion out
’Neath the bloodwood shade.
Dainty girl, your rouseabout
Takes a track to-day
Back to where the plains reach out
To the skyline grey,
And his swag’s a sickening doubt,
Dainty girl in grey !
VIC.
L.M.D.
Superintendent Larkin naively explains
why, despite the trouble, he wishes the N.S.W.
police to continue collecting names for the elec-
toral rolls. “It gives the police,” he says, “a
very good idea of people’s occupations, and the
whereabouts of suspicious characters.”
In the course of the present war, so it is
openly alleged in the House of Commons, shipping
contracts have been given to people who had no
ships, meat contracts to mining companies, re-
mount contracts to men who had no horses and
had never dealt in horses, and transport contracts
to men who had no waggons or cattle.


HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
inedical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured,
bend at once for ,
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
* n Ureat Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
30 Days’ Trial.
fg
We grant every purchase!
of our
ELECTRIC
KELTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electria
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTICE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
CALVERT’S
20 per cent.
CARBOLIC
SOAP
Cures and prevents Insect
and Mosquito bites.
The strongest Carbolic Toilet Soap.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
TRIGhOLOGU
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, By Dr.
ALFRED NEALE. Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
AND THEIR TREATMENT.
Posted Is Id.
Publishers : Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY.
A Wonderful Inven-
tion. Grand Piano-
like Tone.
The HEIU HARP-ZITHER,
OR
Piano-Harp.
A Harp that Anyone can
Play. Louder than the
i Large Italian Harp.
i
Or its tones can be modulated to the soft, sweet tones of the German Zither.
In addition to its wonderful tone quality, the Harp-Zither has a great many
advantages over all other Zithers. It is the only Zither which may be played
while holding vertically like the Harp, or it may be laid upon a table, as is
necessary with the ordinary Zither.
Observe the diagonally crossed strings, almost the same as in a piano, the
melody strings passing over the chord strings. By means of this improvement
in construction the similarity in tone and volume of the piano is produced.
Beautiful in Design, Grand, Resonant Tone, Perfection in Every Point
and it is the easiest to learn to play of any musical instrument in existence-
A child can play it almost at sight. The reason anyone can play this instru-
ment on first trial, even though the person may know absolutely nothing
about music, or may net have an ear for music, is this : Each string is num-
bered, as is each note in the music, so all one has to do to render the most
difficult selections is to strike the strings as indicated by the numbers; hence
we guarantee that anyone able to read figures can learn to play.
The Harp-Zither is built on the lines of the large harp which sells at
£2O and upwards, and to the astonishment of all the Harp-Zither has the
louder tone of the two ; in fact, its tone is similar to that of a piano.
’ ID*-SATISFACTION GUARANTEED -3*l
As a parlor ornament, the instrument, with its classical outlines, is
unique. For the serenade, the musicale, or any class of entertainment, the
Harp-Zither excels all other instruments of its class. Its Deep, sympathetic
Tones Penetrate even those Insensible to the Charms of Music.
Style I. Ebonised, piano finish, decorated, twenty-three strings, three
chords, two picks, key, case, full instructions, and a lot of figure music,
PRICE 25/-
Carriage paid to any part of Australasia. Size of Style X
Harp-Zither is 10 inches wide by 18 inches long. Paymen
should be made by Post Office money-order, and orders for goods addressed to
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY, 229-231 Collins St., Melbourne.
m
mm
PLAIN HOM€ TALK-
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Cbromos. 400 Illustrations. 1200 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a' superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1901 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted to any address for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post. !
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus. i
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post.2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted.
Seoret History of the Court of England, 1 6 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter. Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. Tiib Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Ohiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle's Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Bead Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Beynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d nosted.
The Slide Bule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Becitations and Beadings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather hound, my price, 15s post paid
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, Is 3d.
Pa, Ma and Baby, by Gust&ve Droz, posted 2s.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Beason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big: Book
Catalogue—post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-sf., Sydney.
Dr. Clarkson’s Electric Beli,
will All your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
than any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
expense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s tte-lxivigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body, It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Dosing Memory, Dyg.
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. OLA It KSON’S RE-IN VIGO RATO R
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is trulv wonderful
THEIR TOUGH IS MAGNETIC,
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 16s. *, RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. Od, per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
* •
OAIjL Oil WRITER
O’XWT-a
OUT
RATE
3DKXJG STORE
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY,
BK
||§f
AH®
. ®
m
m Ip®-&
■
wm
m
wm
mm
ibiii
HERR RASSMUSSEN (HANS PETER RASMUSSEN),
The Celebrated Danish Botanist,
Proprietor and Discoverer of the World-Famed Alfaline Herbal Remedies,
which have been the means of effecting the most marvellous Cures for Blood,
Skin and Nervous Diseases ever heard of in Australia.
Herr Rassmussen’s Australian Career:
It is about Twenty Years since Herr|
Rassmussen introduced his Herbal Remedies
to the Australian Public. At that time
he was only known to the public as a Botanist
pure and simple, having devoted almost his
whole life to the study of that most useful
and interesting branch of science. It how-
ever, soon dawned on Herr Rassmussen that
immense virtues existed in many plants which
were entirely unknown to medical men, and
that it was his duty towards his fellow rnah
to bring these new discovered Herbal Remedies
within the means of suffering humanity.
Herr Rassmussen at once set to work,
and his entire energy was directed towards
extractiiig the medical properties from all
kinds of plants, and putting them up in the
most suitable and practical form, according
to the nature of the complaints which they
had been found a cure for.
Pills and Powders were found to be the
most practical form to administer these new
Herbal Remedies.
It is unnecessary to particularise here the 1
•immense success Herr Rassmussen met with
in his venture twenty years ago ; suffice it to'
say that in less than twelve months the
great and wonderful cures brought about by
his Alfaline Herbal Remedies were known',
throughout Australia, New Zealand, and many
other parts of the world. Testimonials and
Honors arrived from all parts. Gold Medals,
from Paris and other plac s were awarded, and
Herr Rassmussen’s name has been a house-
hold word ever since.— ( Sydney Press.)
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Herbal Remedies!
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
are a guaranteed cure for all Nervous Diseases’
Weak Spine, Brain and Nerves, Poor Memory
Tired Feeling, Melancholia, Spots before the
Eyes, etc. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS
are a permanent cure for Wasting Diseases in
Women, Anaemia, and a perfect Blood and
Nerve Tonic, Boxes, 6/- & 12/-; courses, 23/6,
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
are a permanent cure for all Chronic Blood
and Skin Diseases, Blotches, Blood Disorders,
Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, &c.
Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER & KIDNEY PILLS
cure Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulence,
Heartburn, Wind, Biliousness and Headache.
Boxes, One Shilling.
ALFALINE RHEUMATIC PILLS.
Guaranteed to cure Rheumatism, Gout,
Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted 3/-,
6/-, 12/- & 23/6. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
ALFALINE ASTHMA & COUGH PILLS.
A wonderful remedy for Coughs, Colds, Con-
sumption, Bronchitis, Influenza and Asthma.
Boxes, posted, 3/-, 6/-, 12/- & 23/6.
GENERAL REMEDIES.
Alfaline Pile Powders, cure internal and
external Piles, boxes 3/- and 6/- ; Varicocele
Powders, boxes 6/-; Blood Capsules or
Globulus, 6/- ; Fat-Reducing Powders, which
removes corpulency, 6/-; Hair Restorer, 6/-1
Corn Cure,, 1/- ; Ointment, !/- ; Eucalyptus
Oil and Jujubes, boxes 1/-; Flesh-Producing
Powders, 6/-; Worm Tablets, 1/-; Headache
Tablets, 1/- ; Electric Belts, Suspenders,
Bandages, etc. Circulars with all particulars
sent Free.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALTY.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has made special arrangements for attending
personally to his Clients living in the Country, and Letters will receive
most careful attention. , , . , , .
His Remedies will he forwarded to sufferers, packed m plain cover ana
unobserved, together with Advice and Directions. Letters should be addressea
to Herr Rassmussen’s full name—HANS PETER RASMUSSEN and
Registered if containing Money.-
Herr Rasstnussen’s Addresses:
Head Office: 547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
AX.SO AT
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke Street
BRISBANE-309 Queen Street
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney Street
N. 2.-91 Lambton Quay, Wellington
W.A.—PERTH-481 Hay Street
KALG-OORLlE—Hannan Street
BOULDER ClTl—Piesse Street
FREMANTLE—II7 High Street
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of Alfaline Remedies.
Whifcelaw Reid, the U.S. representative
at the London Coronation, has asked to be
excused from being a Royal guest, as he wishes to
pay his own board-and-lodging. A vacancy is
thus provided for N.S.W. Premier See.
In re the magnificent and ever-increasing
“balance of trade” in America’s favor. Follow-
ing on TnE Bulletin’s recent deductions comes
W. F. Ford, in the Contemporary Review, with
the conclusion that the U.S. is busy buying up
the business interests of Europe, but chiefly Eng-
land, at the rate of about 500,000,000dol. yearly.
In the last four years Jonathan sold Europe
2,354,500,000dol. worth more goods than he bought
from there ; and with that money lie has been
buying up Govt, bonds, railways, businesses of all
kinds, lines of steamers, bank stocks, &c.—in fact,
any loose trifle that possesses money-earning
potentialities. For many reasons, but chiefly the
Freetrade one, England is proving his easiest
orange to suck ; and is being sucked, accordingly,
ten times as fast as any other. If U.S. trade
continues to grow as it is doing for a decade or
two, and interest and compound interest get in
their fine work, there will have to be a new
proverb: “The earth is the Yank’s, and the
fullness thereof.”


SilverScenf Charm 4/S
Silver Match Stand.
4/fc
Silver Plated
Serviette Ring
Silver Belt Clasp
15/fi
HI
Silver G!ore Hook 4J
Silver Sorereifn fhrje
. -'O/6 .
Silver M' a Powder Box 10^
Baby 's Silver
<5 Cora! Battle
S/6
Silver flower Vase I 2/q
It
Silver
Natch Box Holder
13/6
Gent 's Silver Card Cas e
18/6
Silver Mounted
Hair Pin Sox 13/q
Silver Plated Bell
12/6
Silver Parse
liicely Enor<3ved
5. 2.16.0
Silver Pin Tray
12/6
Silver Plated
Pin Tray
2/6
Silver ITF
Pail File Zj.
•Silver Photo Frame
Cabinet
'7/6
«SHvefffatea
Toast Rack /3/g
Silver Plated Jam Dish
»/6
mm
Silver Plated Egg Stand
22/6
Silver Plated Jam Dish.
I S/6
mmimrY *
Silver Plated
Ink Bottle
16/6
Silver Plated dauced/and
22/6
Silver Pl'
Sugar Sifter
Silver Plated Tea Spoons ,
& Tongs 9/6
hfg
412 George S
STR/f/Y/D
COR Herd
Sydney
The Goods;With us, live in reality not in print alone. Our
PRICES MAKE IT EXPENSIVE FOR YOli TO BIJY ELSEWHERE.
The Worlds best value °
9
<&
Silver Hair brush IQ/6
Silver Mounted Comb
Silver Plated Tea Pol Stand 10/Q
c
lig£^igs>
Silver & Ivory Paper Knife 1 1/6
Solid Silver Cake Forks JL2.
Knives to match c£ 2.
Silver Pocket Knife 9/6
Solid Silver Cake Forks 6/6 dach
Silver Plated 2/6 each
E. P. Afternoon Tea -Set <~t 4.
Silver Fruit Knife
Silver Plated Fruit OishJi.4.lo.
Silver Brush & Comb 35/-
c l&
hf
•
Silver Plated Cruet & Butter Duh 27/ 6
Silver Button Hook 2/-
T3* <yr
Oak Stationery Cabinet 25/.
the Worlds best Jewellery Stores
Solid Silver Hand Mirror 52/6
Silver Placed Comb Tray 10/5
Silver Plated Pie Dishes
32/s 37/6 42/.
Silver Hair Curler 2./.
6 FP& ivory Cake Forks 25/.
Silver MV Nail Knife Z/-
Silver Pi**Biscuit Box
20/-
Silver PlToast Rack
6/6
Silver Plated
Breakfast Cruet 10/g
£ P & Oak Butter
& Knife 4/f;
Silver Plated & Pearl
Knife Rests 21/-
Silver
Shav'ind
Brush
Silver Plated
Candlestick 12/g
Silver Plated
Toast Pack 8/q
Silver Pl ld ßutter Dish 10/6
3 a Gold Links 25/
Silver 6/6.
9 Ck Gold Brooch
10/6
IS C' Gold & Gem Set
R,n J£z
9 C‘ Gold Sc
Amethyst Brooch
25/-
Chain Bracelets
■Special \/alue 5 2.
5.2 15 5,3.10.
9 C- Gold Sr Opal
Brooch 22/g
18 C‘ Gold &
Opal Rmo§[2\Q
9 C t Go/dStone
Set Brooch (5/6
Diamond & Ruby
R‘ n °J[s.lo
9 C* Gold
& Pearl L inks 1 0/6
Pocket Spirit Ftaski
r 2>/g to 2.
Silver MW L ealher Purse
9/6
//
'i£B
Silver Plated
Honey Jar 3^.
$
Solid Silver
Childs Cap^2.
SHvtr Plated
Serviette Rmo 7/ 5
#
&
Silver Photo Frame
C.deV 8/6
Childs Silver
Plated Cup S/q
Gents Stiver '
; Hair&rush lu/fj j
NATURE’S GREAT PICK-ME-UP.
The Greatest Life Invigorator in the World.
Prof. LAWSON TAIX, M.D., wrote: “LAWSON TAIT highly recommends KUTNOW’S POWDER.”
CONVINCING
TESTIMONY.
SIR JOHN B. MONCKTON,
Town Clerk of Londom writes:
“ Guildhall, London, E.C., 4 Nov., 1901.
“ Gentlemen,—l have much satisfaction in stating that
for the last two years I have regularly used KUTNOW’S
POWDER, with the result that Troublesome and Frequent
Attacks of Lumbago, with other Gouty Symptoms that
had troubled me for years, seem to have entirely
DISAPPEARED.
“ Yours truly,
“JOHN B. MONCKTON.”
“49 Grange Street, Olayton-le-Moors,
“Nr. Accrington, Oct. Ist; 1901.
“ Dear Sirs,—Have much pleasure in very gratefully
acknowledging receipt of bottle of Kutnow’s Powder., and
I beg at the same time to give my testimony as to its
efficiency and value. It has in each case (when used by
me) given me material relief from acute indigestion.
“ I am, dear Sirs, yours truly,
“(Rev.)JAS. WRIGHT,
“ Primitive Meth. Minister.”
“ Addingham Vicarage
“Langwathby, R. 5.0., Cumberland,
“ April 3rd, 1901.
“ Dear Sirs,—l am much obliged for the bottle of Kut-
now’s Powder. I consider it an excellent remedy for the
Liver and Kidneys. It has the best advantage of being
pleasant to take. ■ /
“ Yours faithfully,
“ (Rev.) T. W. STEPHENSON, Vicar.”
HUNDREDS OF DOCTORS RECOMMEND IT.
THE MEDICAL JOURNAL (April, 1901) says :
AS A SUBSTITUTE for the European medicinal spring treatment for CONSTIPA-
TION many eminent medical men and the most prominent medical journals have recom-
mended KUTNOW’S POWDER, as the same is a portable, economical, reliable, and very
agreeable remedy, extensively employed by the profession, to whose further attention it is
recommended. It exercises a beneficial effect on the liver, gall-bladder, kidneys, and
stomach. The flavor is refreshing, and it is readily taken by women and children. It has
also been successfully prescribed in diabetes and for the correction of the lithic and uric
acid diathesis, with or without jaundice, constipation, acid dyspepsia, and hemorrhoids.
“ Its advantages,” says a medical correspondent, “ appear to arise from its possessing the
power to eliminate from the body the excess of bile and acids, thereby purifying the blood
and strengthening the general tone by improving the assimilative processes of the
debilitated system. Consequently it has a salutary effect in cases of hypochondriasis
associated with low spirits and general depression.”
For the above reasons KUTNOW’S POWDER has been employed, under the highest
medical authorities, for patients leading sedentary lives and those suffering from abnormal
accumulations of fat. For corpulent women, in particular, physicians will find it a pleasant
remedy when aided by the appropriate diet. The well-to-do classes, with leisure to com-
mand, periodically seek the cleansing and health-restoring medicinal Spas of the European
Continent. Of the million of sufferers, however, only comparatively very few are favored
by such fortunate circumstances as to enable them to indulge in the luxury of a trip to the
Continent. Therefore, as a boon to suffering humanity, Kutnow’s Powder won by sheer
sterling merit the approval of such authorities as Sir Spencer Wells, M.D., Professor
Lawson Tait, M.D., Sir Morell Mackenzie, M.D., Sir Andrew Clarke, M.D., and the most
eminent physicians everywhere.
Beware of Fraudulent Imitations.
KUTNOW’S POWDER may be obtained in capsuled bottles, of all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors. See that the Registered Trade Mark, “ Hirschensprung ” (or Deer
Leap), and the autograph facsimile signature, “ S. KUTNOW and CO. (Ln.),” are on the
label and carton. ONLY THESE ENSURE GENUINENESS. INSIST ON “ KUT-
NOW’S,” AND FIRMLY REFUSE ANY SUBSTITUTES ; THEY ARE WORTHLESS
AND OFTEN INJURIOUS.
TRIBUTE WHERE
TRIBUTE IS DUE.
“ Maplecote, Woodhouse Eaves,
“ Leicestershire, May Bth, 1901.
“ Dear Sirs, —I have proved the great value of Kutnow’s
Powder even in extreme cases of delicate patients, and
should be glad of its being made more widelj- known. I
have recommended it to a great many people, most of
whom have received great benefit from its use and da
not like to be without it.
“ Yours faithfully,
“ (Nurse) L. BYWAT-ER.”
“ 402 West Chelten Avenue,
“ Philadelphia, July 2nd, 1901.
“ Gentlemen, —I would now no more think of doing
without Kutnow’s Powder than my daily food. I only
wish every soul in the land used your powder, they
would experience great benefit. Four of my family be-
sides myself take your powder daily.
“ Cordially yours,
“ F. H. GRIFFIN, M.D.”
“ 11th Coy. Ist Btn. Rifle Brigade,
“ Field Fo. c ■, South Africa,
“ 14th May, 1901.
“Gentlemen, —Thanks for bottle of Kutnow’s Powder
safely recei\ ed. For years I have suffered severely from
Liver Complaint, contracted during my tour of service
with my Regiment in India. I commenced taking your
powder immediately I received It, and have felt most
beneficial effects from it. My appetite has returned, and
I may truthfully say I feel better than I have for some
years. I shall always recommend it.
“ Yours gratefully,
“ (8757) Pte. W. HAMPSON.”
Great Chance for those Weary of Sickness
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 Farringdon Rd., London, E.C.
Proprietors In U.8.A.: KUTNOW BROS., LTD., 853 Broadway, New York,


1111
ImMJljirfi
Iffl
a
in
u
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only and
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
GORDON MARE, Secretary.
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
28 Years in the Establishment.
a
3
2
1
■Jewellers & Opticians
[9oKingSTjSydney.
NOVELTIES
. . IN . .
EARRINGS.
We have just received, ex R.M.S.
Ormuz, a lovely shipment of Ear-
rings, comprising all the very
latest London and Parisian Novel-
ties, which we are selling at the
undermentioned exceptionally
low prices. fST"AII Goods Post Free.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Turquoise (Parisian), with Gold Screws, as Sketch No. 1,. .. 8/6 per pair!
Pearl (Oriental) ,» » » » ®/~ >* (
Coral (Beal) » » » » » •• 7/6 ~
Gold Bead sty j e ” g a bo’ve, with Gold Wires, 1/6 per pair less. ” (
Cleopatra, Pearl Drops (all the rage), as per Sketch No. 2 .. 6/6 per pair i
j( „ for unpierced ears.. .. 10/6 „ '
”, Turquoise „ >, „ •• 12/6 „ i
Turquoise (Parisian), for unpierced ears, as per Sketch No. 3 .. 10/- „
Pearl (Oriental) >, » >* » » >» {
Diamond (Parisian) „ » »> » » •• °/o »
Hundreds of other styles in stock, froiri 3/6 to £5O per pair. <
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
Ji
Hennessy’s
Brandy
Disarms
Influenza
of
all
its
Dangerous
After
Effects.
THE
OLD BATTLE AXE BRAND.
rj.
5tS
1
mr
5«
1
SB
m.
m
».
CG
St
£
gh
-» .
IO3UI
■ n
11
DifflO
320.
li li
SB
'fjilfiifi!
BPS
J£Uii
htFl
i-r' J !
HOTEL
HIETROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s- 6d. per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica-
tion to The Manager.
A ROT Alt LIQUEUR.
PETER F. HEERING, Copenhagen,
CHERRY BRANDY
Supplied to— _
The King of England; The Royal Danish and Imperial Russian Courts.
SWIFT AND COMPANY, 7 Spring Street, Sydney, Australasian Agents.
The Plica [ubricant Co., South Shields, Eng.
Lubricants and Packings for all purposes. Patent Mica Grease saves 90% in cost of lubrication, and keeps
bearimrsperfectly cool. Patent Mica Packings last twice as long as ordinary, and are 25% lighter. They do
no t score the rods, but put a mica surface on them, similar in appearance to electro-plate.
Sole Agent for Australasia : R. A. HERVEY. Depdt, 171 Clarence-st, Sydney, N.S.W.
MACHINERY
MERCHANTS,!
—————— |
WHOLESALE IRONMONGERS,
And Importers of
Engines, Boilers, Pumps, Wood-’
working Machines, Engineers’
Supplies, Blacksmith and
Coachbuilders’ Requisites, Pipes
and Fittings, Boiler Tubes, Gun
Metal and Brassware for Steam
and Water, Household and
Builders’ Ironmongery, Agri-
cultural Implements, Horse
ears, Chaff Cutters, &c.
sxiaaj
MacH irfE-RY STORE
'JjeAD
FFJC.E
I3RISBAN
figßKl
5357
SMELLIE&C
Bulk
VallcY
nbßTit OuctMSLAtfD Branch
PWNsviat.
BRISBANE.
North Queensland Warehouse:
Stanley & Sturt Sts., Townsville.
New Broad St. House, London, E.G.
AGENTS FOR
ROBEY & CO., Portable
Steam Engines.
W. B. HAIGH & CO., Saw-
mill Machinery.
GWYNNE’S Centrifugal Pumps
PEARN’S Manchester Steam
Pumps.
DUPLEX Steam Pumps.
SCOTT’S Steel Mining Ropes.
FRANK VIAL & SON Leather
Belting.
WAUKEGAN Barb Wire.
PLANET JR. Implements.
AER MOTOR Windmills.
KEROSENE OIL ENGINES.
W. D. and H. O. WILLS’* 3
“KEYSTONE”
PLUG TOBACCO, in two strengths, DARK and BRIGHT.
Contains only the finest selection of richest Virginian Leaf. To pipe smokers wishing a great treat, “give it a
trial and you will like it.”
“KEYSTONE” TOBACCO smokes cool and sweet. Special pains have been taken in the manufacture to hit the
public taste, and we confidently recommend this Tobacco as being absolutely pure.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 23.—N0. 1160.
SATURDAY. MAY 10, 1002.
Prick c, d .
SUMMED UP.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
«Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ijtd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-Street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBER'S
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ...
Half-yearly ... ... ...
Quarterly ... ... W fa 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Utaoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
41, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum , payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pouml Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to 3 F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, ivhere practicable,
acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. ivhen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To A inateurs in Blade and IPhite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
. — i.c., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions i under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; and Street & Co., Comhill.
San Francisco. — L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
T^e^^xxSe^Ti.
SATURDAY, MAY 10, 1902.
More About Greater Sydney.
The big meeting held last week to urge that
the 42 municipalities in and around the
N.S.W. metropolis be united in a Greater
Sydney, ruled by one corporation, looked as
if it might be the beginning of better things.
At the same time the fact can’t be disguised
th it the excitement was mostly worked up
by a few intelligent reformers like Fitz-
gerald and Hughes, and that of spon-
taneous public enthusiasm there is very little
as yet.. The great bulk of the population of
Sydney has no idea of how badly its city
wants reform, because it doesn’t really know
what a well-governed city looks like. Syd-
ney is isolated and parochial. A small pro-
portion of the people have seen Melbourne
—which is a little better than Sydney, inso-
far that it is governed by about 12 municipal
bodies instead of 42, yet even Melbourne
would be regarded as a hideous joke in Eng-
land or Scotland nowadays. A small num-
ber have seen Brisbane, which is as
bad as Sydney or a little worse—
certainly it is a great deal dirtier.
But there are very few who have seen
and studied a well-managed modern city of
from 500,000 to 1,000,000 people, run by
one central authority which controls every-
thing, and where municipal life offers so
large and brilliant a career for an ambitious
citizen that the ablest and most con-
stantly-washed men in the community
struggle for aldermanic positions. There-
fore very few understand what Sydney might
be—and not understanding that, it is diffi-
cult to rouse any real and general and per-
manent indignation against the system which
has made it what it is. There are many
stumbling-blocks in the way of any serious
attempt to promote an awakening. There
is the O’Sullivan variety of politician who
has blathered for years, with an easy flow
of verbal grease, about Sydney being the
“Queen City of the South,” till it has
become an article of faith with a large
section of the people that there is really little
or nothing to reform. There is still a rem-
nant of the John Robertson species of furious
parochialist who sees in any attempt to show
that Sydney requires improvement a deep
Victorian conspiracy to slander the city in
Melbourne’s interests. There are the
42 sets of gimcrack aldermen who don’t
want to be abolished, and their satel-
lites. There are some, at least, of the
30 or 40 M’s.L.A. who live on looking
after local interests, and therefore don’t
want to see them efficiently looked after
by any other body. And there is the
obliging Government, which wood-blocks
worn-out streets at times out of loan money,
which cleans up slums or pulls them down,
at plague time, which makes a new street
now and then out of loan funds, and by its
interference prevents the neglected metro-
polis realising, as it deserves to do, the utter
badness of its municipal system.
» * * *
Still, the people are at least more wide-
awake than the politicians or the suburban
aldermen, and the latest movement is an
appeal to the peopie. It is proposed that
Parliament should authorise the election, by
the population of Sydney, of a convention
to draft one municipal constitution for the
city with the 42 sets of aidermen. And the
promoters of the movement wisely urge
that, for the election of that convention, all
Sydney and its suburbs shall be one con-
stituency. That dear old friend, the local
member, desires that the Parliamentary con-
stituencies in the areas affected shall each
form a separate constituency, so that the local
member shall be elected to the convention
as a matter of course. That other dear old
friend, the local alderman, desires that the
42 municipalities shall each form a separate
constituency, returning one or two members
to the convention, so that the local mayor
may be returned as a matter of course. The
local member, with one or two honorable
exceptions, has absolutely neglected the
urgent question of municipal reform. The
local alderman, with a few honorable excep-
tions, has been bitterly hostile. He is, as a
rule, a petty nonentity, whose influence
extends over two streets and a back
lane, and his only chance of being sent
to the convention in any large quan-
tity lies in keeping his two streets and
a lane as a separate voting entity. He
wants to be returned so that he may
represent, not the Greater Sydney idea, but
the one to which he is accustomed —the two
streets and a lane idea. He wants to be
returned so that he may look after the
separate interests of his district, as dis-
tinguished from those of the whole metro-
polis, and preserve himself from extinction.
Where he is not directly hostile he often
inclines to federation rather than unification
—he wants to preserve the existing councils
with a federal one added, so that the joke
of 42 mayors and sets of aldermen sitting in
42 town halls to govern less than 500,000
people may be transformed into the larger
and wilder joke of 43 mayors and 43 sets of
aldermen. And all these things are vanity.
• * * *
If the See-O’Sullivan Government can
turn its thoughts for a while from its big
loans, and statues of Australia with its back
to Sydney and its face towards a cleaner out-
look, and its huge city railway station built
miles out of the city, the convention idea
may come to pass. That convention needs
to be composed of men who have the con-
fidence of all Sydney—not merely of Dar-
lington or North Botany. Its business will
be to look after the welfare of all Sydney,
which has hitherto had no one to look after
it. It requires to be a protest against the
whole Darlington and North Botany idea,
and the Five Dock fetish, and the St.
Peters superstition. The municipal con-
stitution it draws up will doubtless have to
be submitted to Parliament and then to the
people by referendum. The aldermanic idea
is that it should be submitted to each
municipality separately, and that the
one which accepts it joins Greater
Sydney, and the one which rejects it
doesn’t, so that one municipality out of the
42 may mar the whole plan of reform at the
bidding or instigation of some grocery-souled
mayor. The aldermanic outlook begins with
an alderman, or more likely two aldermen,
being elected by each municipality to repre-
sent it at the convention—this after a great
campaign at which the aldermen who are
selected to stand, and ten or twenty other
aldermen, expound the position to the people.
Then a convention of 84 or 88 aldermen, each
holding forth about the extra merits of his
municipality, and declaring that his munici-
pality will not join unless it gets special con-
ditions and concessions. Then the drafting
of a constitution which will be accepted by
the votes of 45 aldermen, while 43 aldermen
present a minority report and a rival scheme.
Then a reference to Parliament, with never
less than a dozen aldermen waiting about to
advise members. Finally a referendum, at
which each crowd of aldermen will instruct
its own municipality how to vote, and the
municipality will vote accordingly. But
Sydney doesn’t exist for the sake of its 42
sets of aldermen, and it is much more
promising to let the people of all Sydney,
voting as one constituency, elect a conven-
tion by manhood and womanhood suffrage,
and to let the people of all Sydney accept or
reject the scheme which the convention
draws up. If aldermen, in their private
capacity, get into the convention that is
another thing. The main consideration is
that a much better class of men are likely to
stand if it is a case of appealing to a con-
stituency of 500,000 people, than if it is a
case of appealing separately to St. Peters
and Five Dock, and other absurd little
allotments.
* * • •
xf the N.S.W. State Government would
draft a constitution for Greater Sydney closely
resembling that which Glasgow possesses,
and submit it first to Parliament, and then
to the people, there would be no need for the
convention, and much time and trouble would
be saved. But the Government never gets
any further advanced with this matter. In
its utter want of constructive ability, its
laziness, and its incompetence, it seems
hopeless to expect anything from it. The
mere size of the Bill that would have to be
drafted makes it leave the question alone
year after year, and lean up against some-
thing else. The brain-worry of thinking
out the financial problems involved is beyond
it. But Parliament is capable of passing a
measure of three or four clauses authorising
someone else to do the work, and of giving
its perfunctory assent when the work is done.
All the effort required of it is that one of
these clauses shall put the convention
on a sensible basis, so that it won’t
necessarily be a close preserve for
the aldermanic crowd, whose dirtiness and
ignorance have made Sydney a plague-spot
and an eyesore and one of the standing
jokes of the civilised world. The beginning,
middle and end of the movement is to abolish
the system which brought about all these
aldermen—the system to which they owe the
only distinction which most of them are ever
likely to achieve ; and to replace it by one
which will make such aldermen impossible
in the fdture.
The Australian Iron Industry.
Coghlan estimates the value of iron and manu-
factured iron imported to he Commonwealth at
£5,306,729 a year. The quantity of pig-iron
represented in this is about 380,000 tons. To
make 1 ton of pig-iron from If to 2\ tons of iron ore
(=665,000 to 855,000 tons) are required; also, from
1 to ton of coke (=380,000 to 475,000 tons), or
3 tons of coal (=1,140,000 tons). Those are the
big figures that strike one in the eye when one
begins to quiz into the movement to produce iron
in Australia. And then for one’s encouragement
some other bigger figures come on. In 1865 the
United States produced 843,000 tons of iron and
13,848 tons of steel ; in 1899, 13,838,634 and
10,736,806 tons respectively ! At the start most
of the American iron was produced where ore,
fuel, and flux cuddled one another ; but now
most of the ore is carried at least 800 miles, first
by rail, then by canal boats that hold up to 6000
tons, then by rail again. About 14 million tons
goes like that from the Lake Superior country
every year. Another million or so goes from
Cuba, and has much more boating and railage.
The Protectionist policy of the States made the
industry possible ; magnificent organisation has
done the rest.
• * » *
In Australia the first attempts to make iron are
just 50 years old. The old idea of looking only to
districts where iron and coal overlapped was
followed ; but, as the coal was not suitable, the
enterprise collapsed. Other attempts have been
made —and one, at Lithgow, has still a good deal
of life in it. The best iron ore in N.S.W., and
the nearest most suitable coal are, however, nearly
100 miles apart; and the railways, bossed nearly
always oy Freetrade Govts., happy to get their
iron and steel from abroad, have not helped much.
But now, with Federation here, with cut-throat
border duties impossible, with Protection the
national policy, a big enough concern with powers
of organisation ought to be able to give the
industry a fair start, if only the importing tribe
will give it a fraction of a fair chance.
* * * *
The ironmaster’s paradise has iron ore, fuel and
flux—all three—under his feet. It is the carriage,
and especially the rail carriage, of crude stuff that
kills ; for, in order to make a ton of pig-iron,
which must be sold for under 555., from to
4J tons of stuff (including from a ton to ton of
coke) has to be handled. The British industry
got its start from the occurrence of iron bands in'
the coal measures ; and even now, when these
bands are about exhausted, the British ironmaster
has a big “pull” in the fact that most of the
Cleveland ore carries its own fluxes. Nevertheless,
given good enough organisation and solid enough
backing, it pays better to bring good ore to fuel
than to attempt to use poor ore on the spot. Of
22 million tons smelted in Great Britain in a year,
74 millions now come from abroad, including
nearly five millions from Spain. Yet for a start,
anyhow, it may be safely said that any but a very
little rail carriage will constitute too big a handi-
cap for the iron industry in Australia. According
to latest figures available, Bessemer pig-iron can
be produced in the U.S. for £1 12s. sd. a ton ; in
Great Britain the average cost is £2 2s. lOd.; and
on the Continent, £2 ss. lOd. Remembering the
before-mentioned requirements of coke and coal,
of flux (say J-ton of limestone per ton of pig-iron)
and of labor, there is too obviously not much
margin left for rail-carriage.
* • * *
The project which has been put before some of
the Australian Governments includes the use of
ore from Blythe River (Tas.), and of coal and
coke from Newcastle and other N.S.W. fields,
with a site for works on the Parramatta River,
near Ryde. Flux, it is stated, can be got cheaply
thereabouts. The Tasmanian iron ore deposit (its
true character, whether lode or bed, has not yet
been ascertained) has been known to mining men
for years. It is seven miles from the deposits to
the mouth of the river, where there is harbor
accommodation. Alex. Montgomery, then Govt.
Geologist of Tasmania, visited it in 1894; and
W. F. Ward, Tasmanian Government Analyst,
made tests for him. The latter’s report was—
Iron peroxide, 95.2 (=iron, 66.4); silica, 4.8;
phosphoric acid, traces. First-class Lake Superior
ore carries 63 per cent, iron; good ore, 58 or 60
per cent. Some Pennsylvanian 35 per cent, ore is
successfully worked. The Spanish ores run from
45 to 55 per cent. The main seam of Cleveland
(England) ore gives an average of 30 per cent; but
it carries its own flux. “ A ” grade Swedish ore,
the richest handled in the world, carries 68 per
cent, of iron and over; “B” grade, 67. A good
deal of this very rich ore carries over much
phosphorus for steel-making though. The Tas-
manian analysis is therefore remarkably satis-
factory. Admittedly, however, the samples
were from the best-looking ore: a fair test
could hardly yet be made. Taking the analysis
as a basis Mr. Montgomery wrote of the
hematite as “one of the finest in the world, rank-
ing with the famous Spanish, Algerian, and Cuban
ores, which are now exported in very large quan-
tities . . . for the manufacture of Bessemer steel.”
As to quantity, he estimated roughly 30 million
tons in the outcrop alone; and as to working costs
—“lt is most favorably situated for economical
working, the steep sides of the river gorge giving
exceptional opportunities for mining by open
quarrying.” (Some of the Lake Superior ore,
it may be noted here, is broken down and
shovelled by steam into 25-ton trucks, a truck in
2\ minutes, for lOd. per ton.) The cost per ton
would very largely depend upon the proportion of
poor stuff —quartz bands, etc., that would have to
be discarded.
• * * *
But Australia is not tied down to the Blythe
River scheme. There are others —several of them.
Under the new conditions and with the public
help asked for by the Blythe River co. ore may
perhaps be profitably brought from Carcoar and
Cadia to Lithgow and smelted there. Certainly
the 100-mile rail-carriage of the crude ore would
be one big handicap while the industry was a
baby and the 100-mile rail-carriage of the iron
from Lithgow to the port would be another.
The Carcoar deposits, m which J. B. Jaquet,
of N.S.W. Geological. Survey,, estimated that
there is over three million tons in sight, average
about 53 per cent, of iron; at Cadia there is, he
says, probably 39 million tons, but the value is
unqertain. Whether these can be worked more
profitably than the other is not worth arguing;
paper-talk cannot settle it. And whether they
can be worked profitably now or not, they almost
certainly will prove sometime to be a great
national asset.
* * * •
And the conclusion is this: Here are the raw
products, evidently of good quality and well-
situated, but now unused. Here, too, is a people
sending out of the country over £5,000,000 a year
for the worked-up product. Here, further, is a
people growing thinner, yet more heavily loaded
with debt—a people who, when they ask for work,
are sent either to shift sand in the city or to taste
despair “on the land.” And here is the record
of what the U.S. have done, and of the way they
have done it. Isn’t it at least worth attempting
here, too ? And isn’t the attempt worth encourag-
ing ? Or are we just going to blankly give up,
and let things slide ?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Bowen Railway.
Ip Queensland Government carries out its inten-
tion of closing up the hopelessly unpayable Bowen
railway, it will thereby awaken the ghost of an old
and terrible stench which were better left un-
disturbed. The story of Bowen and Townsville
makes curious reading. Queensland has many
harbors, but few good ones. Bowen, whose harbor,
with practically no money spent on it, has 22ft.
of water at lowest tides, is one of the good ones.
Townsville, 103 miles further north, is swallowing
up £250,000 in a struggle to make a harbor with
20ft. of water. But Townsville is a head-centre
of the Philp clan, and of the firm of Burns,
Philp & Go., which owns North Queensland body
and soul; so strange things happen thereabouts.
The Northern railway has its inland terminus at
Winton. From that town it runs as straight
towards the coast as it can do without presenting
too great a contrast to the principles of the
builders, till it reaches the great gold town of
Charters Towers. Thence, if it went right
ahead, it would reach the coast at the splendid
harbor of Bowen, but instead it turns sharply
north for a long way, to bring up at muddy,
shallow, inconvenient Townsville —where the
Philp interest is. Bowen also has a railway,
but it stops short in the middle of nowhere. The
train runs there twice a week, and then a coach
connects with the great line striking out west,
If Bowen’s little scrag of railway were carried on a
little further till it junctioned with the main line
it would pay, and Bowen would boom —but
Townsville, where the Philp interest lies, would
suffer greatly through the diversion of trade, so
the connection isn’t made. It is much the same
as if the Cobar and Bourke line in N.S.W. turned
north at Penrith, to bring up on the muddy
shores of Gosford, and Sydney wasn’t permitted to
connect with that line at all, but was allowed, by
way of consolation, a fragment of railway which
broke off in the bush near Liverpool. There
are large meat works at Bowen, and cattle
coming to them have to get out of the
trucks about 80 miles from their destina-
tion and take walking exercise on the road.
The Boodle Government of Queensland has a
yearning for private railways, and is willing, as a
rule, to give large grants of land to their pro-
moters but, when a syndicate connected with the
meat-business offered to build the connecting link
between the Bowen line and the Townsville-
Winton railway without any land - grant, it
couldn’t get the required permission. Such a line
would draw trade from Townsville to the superior
port of Bowen—and Philp is member for Towns
ville, and Townsville, whose shallow harbor is a
sink for public money, must be considered.
So it is proposed to close up the railway o)
one of the best ports in Queensland because
there is practically no trade from that port
to a stump in the bush, that being where the
railway leads to. It is the case of Gladstone
over again. Gladstone, with 26ft. of water
in its splendid harbor, has no communica-
tion with the West, the Central railway dodging
in a northerly direction to avoid it, and bringing up
instead at Rockhampton, which is 33 miles up a
river, and has naturally about 10ft. of water.
Enormous sums have been spent trying to make
Rockhampton a workable harbor, while the
splendid port of Gladstone mouldered alongside
unheeded. Political influence was the cause here
also—in fact, Queensland railvvays mostly end at
a mudhole because of political influence. The big
wire-pullers had the consistent ill-luck to settle
down in localities as shallow and dirty as them-
selves, and the railways went there to meet them.
♦
Treason to White Australia.
Ip Premier Barton has not become traitor to the
White Australia ideal it is high time that that
stout gentleman defined his position. The Aliens
Restriction Act gives the Barton Government
power to keep out any and every undesirable im-
migrant, black, white, piebald, or of any hue
whatever. In addition to certain other disquali-
fications it enacts that every immigrant may (it
is not compulsory, but he may , at the option of
the authorities) be required to pass an educational
test by writing out a passage in some European
language. This is not, perhaps, a desirable
method of shutting out the alien, but Australia


was very broadly informed by the British authori-
tiesthat it was theonly one which could beobtained;
and it is certainly as comprehensive and effective a
means as could be desired. The test may be applied
in any European language, so that it can be used to
shut out everybody except the man who knows prac-
tically all the languages of Europe ; at the same
time its application isn’t compulsory, so it can let
in anybody as well as shut out anybody. Everything
depends on the honesty of its administration.
Premier Barton now uses it, apparently, as a
means to let in every possible nigger who comes
along, by having him tested in the one European
language that fie is acquainted with, and openly
scoffs when the influx of niggers is complained of.
Considering Edmund Barton as Premier of
Australia, The Bulletin is glad to remember
that, long before the election of the Federal Par-
liament, it declared in its biggest type its opinion
that that spineless, eloquent, incompetent, unreli-
able spasmodic man, was not a fit person for the
Premiership, It was almost the only paper which
declared Barton’s utter unfitness, and it has been
K)ud of its discernment in this matter ever since.
e pity is that Barton can’t come to his well-
deserved fall without pulling down far better men
along with him. Barring Forrest there is nobody
in the Ministry whose departure would do the
Ministry more good.
♦
Symon the Freetrader.
The tariff was greeted, on its arrival in the
Senate, by a blast of indignation from Senator
Josiah Symon, a Freetrader of an aggravated and
purely bookish type, who has evidently learned
from books written to suit English, not Australian,
conditions. What Josiah Symon doesn’t know
about law, and what he does know about finance,
are equally not worth knowing. He doesn’t even
know that N.S.W., in its most aggressive Free-
trade days, protected a number of its largest and
most prosperous industries, and he blew off again
the old, silly, mechanical fable about the corn-
stalk ports being “entirely open.” Mr. Symon
had many grievances about small anomalies in the
tariff, and considering how it was botched by his
party in the Representatives, there doubtless are
anomalies. As regards his fiscal principles, he
wanted a low revenue tariff so as to encourage
imports. “If they wanted revenue they should
encourage imports,” said Josiah, which appa-
rently means that there should be 5 per
cent, duties, and whenever the Government
badly needs £lOO,OOO the people should buy
from abroad £2,000,000 worth of goods so that
it may get that small sum. The trouble
with the Symon clan is that it never explains how
the country is to pay for all these extra imports,
which are essential if the tariff is to yield enough
revenue. It can’t pay in wool and meat and hides,
for extra imports won’t make the cattle any less
dead than they are now. The bogged cow and
the sheep with its eyes dug out by the ravenous
crow take no stock in fiscal policies. It can’t pay
in gold and silve , for no fiscal policy will make
goldfields where there are none, or make silver
worth 3s. 6d. an ounce instead of 2s. It can’t pay
in manufactured goods, for if it takes to importing
more it is likely to manufacture even less than it
does now. It can hardly pay much more by rais-
ing wheat in this arid land of six-bushel harvests.
The beautiful doctrine that Australia should have
low duties, and make them yield enough revenue
by importing, say, £ 15,000,000 worth more every
year always comes up with a crash against the
fact that we must export £15,000,000 worth more
a year to pay for it, or else pay for it with loan
moneys and wind up in national insolvency. This
is the situation which the Josh Symon crowd has
to face :
(1) Australia already exports more, in to
population, than any other important State on earth bar
Holland. It exports nearly twice as much per head as
Britain does. It exports everything it can raise and
everything it can spare.
(21 It restricts its imports very greatly by Protective
tariffs.
(8) Even with all this extraordinary exporting and this
restricted importing it doesn’t export enough to pay for
its imports and the interest on its foreign debts. It is
always borrowing more money abroad to keep itself
going with. For the last 2J years it has borrowed, mostly
in England, at the rate of £1,000,000 a month.
(4) If the duties are greatly reduced and the revenue
still keeps up because of the great increase in imports,
what does Josiah Symon propose that this country (which’
despite its almost unprecedented exports, doesn’t export
enough to cover its interest bill and to pay for its
restricted imports) should export another £15,000,000
worth of by way of meeting the new liability ? Josiah
Symon and Reid and M’Millan and Pulsford and Conroy
and Glynn produce nothing exportable.
(5) The taxable imports, inter-State imports being free,
are about £42,000,000 a year. A 100 per cent, duty on
intoxicants and narcotics would produce about
£2,500,000 ; and to raise £& 000,000 a year (admitted to be
quite insufficient) it would be necessary to tax all other
imports 15 per cent, and have no free list. To make 10
per cent, do with no free list it would be necessary for
the country to import £15,000,000 worth more per annum,
and to export £15,000,000 worth more to pay for it. If
the Commonwealth doubled its agricultural output and
exported the whole surplus it would just about do this.
Or if it a good deal more than doubled its wool output it
might do it. Does Symon know how these things are to
be done ? And if they are done they will still leave Aus-
tralia borrowing £1,000,000 a month to make good the
shortage on its exports.
(6) The case of England has nothing to do with the
problem. England can import more than it exports
because it has a huge revenue from foreign investments
and from mines and other interests it has seized in con-
quered countries. Therefore England can encourage
imports—if it doesn’t encourage them too far. Australia
must export more than it imports to pay interest on
its debts, and as the debt increases the surplus of exports
must increase also. If Australia exported as much per
inhabitant as the United States does, and imported
nothing at all, still its surplus of exports would not suffice
to pay interest on its foreign debts. For a country in
that condition to talk about encouraging imports is drfvel.
In short, nobody has a right to advocate en-
couraging imports (seeing that we can’t pay for
the imports we already receive) unless he can
show how these imports are to be paid for. And a
gang of non-producers, who don’t grow anything
to export by way of payment, should keep
especially quiet on a subject like this. It isn’t
merely a small question of encouraging this or
that industry—the shoe business or the clothes-
peg manufacture or the egg production. Behind
that there is a large national question, which the
pottering Freetrader seldom considers, that Aus-
tralia is just now buying from abroad £12,000,000
more a year than it can pay for, and the crowd
which calls on it to fix its tariff so that it will buy
still more is a gang of improvident lunatics.
4
Playing 1 at Umpire.
As a further sign of the tendency to play at
Imperialism this notice moulders on the order
paper of the House of Representatives:—
Mr. O’Malley : To move, that, in the opinion of this
House, it is both desirable and essential in the interest
of fairness and the friendly relations existing between
the Australian Commonwealth and foreign nations—
(l) That the Commonwealth should declare that any
attempt of any foreign power to spread its anti-British
system to any part of this portion of the Southern Hemi-
sphere will be regarded as dangerous to the peace, happi-
ness, and safety of the Commonwealth.
(2) That with the existing dependencies of foreign
powers the Commonwealth should not interfere, but un-
questionably by natural geographical conditions the con-
trolling destiny of the Islands of the Southern Seas is
sacredly vested in the Australian people.
(3) That the further annexation of territory or acquisi-
tion of Islands in the Southern Seas by foreign powers
will be considered as an act of hostility towards the
Commonwealth, and that none of these Islands should
ever be utilised for any foreign stations or convict settle-
ments.
This, be it noted, is not supposed to be the
British empire speaking. It purports to be
the Commonwealth with 4,000,000 people and
not one serviceable war - ship of its own,
talking on its own responsibility, and inform-
ing France, Germany and Holland with 500
war-vessels of one kind and another that it won’t
biff them out of their present holdings in these
waters, so long as they walk an honorable chalk-
line, but that any further expansion will bring
this country down on them like an avalanche.
Also it is a warning to Chili, with its fleet of 43
ships, that even those islands which lie much
nearer to its coasts than to ours must not be inter-
fered with, as the Lord has given them to
us, and any Chilian annexation will result in
the pilot vessel Captain Cook appearing off
Santiago with a bloodshot eye and a cry of rage
in both hands, and asking “Whaffor?” And if
the reply isn’t satisfactory it will land the cadets
and the Push and the National Guard, and they
will march on Valparaiso and drink everything
they can find. If King O’Malley isn’t intoxi-
cated with the exuberance of his own big hat he
will quietly withdraw that motion. Failing that
the House should refuse to discuss it, on the
ground that the Commonwealth isn’t big enough
yet to pull the tails of two first-class and two
second-class Powers all at once, and that it has no
desire to pose before all the world as the silly
infant of the Pacific.
The Sydney Land Resumptiona
An indefinite spectre name Lee, leader of the
Opposition in N.S.W. State Parliament, has a
vague idea that he possesses just ground of com-
plaint in the matter of the Sydney land resump-
tions against an inefficient spectre named See, who
is understood to conduct the N.S.W. State Govern-
ment. Lee has no distinct knowledge, it would
appear, as to what is amiss, but he keeps making
shadowy statements to that somebody
has been wrongfully kept out of his money.
Attorney-General Wise replies by asking coldly
for the name of the person who has been defrauded
or kept out of his money, and Lee flounders on
the horizon in the far distance without making
any specific reply. As a matter of fact, there are
quite a number of grievances, but the inefficient
Lee apparently doesn’t know what they are. The
first and most glaring one is the rent swindle.
When N.S.W. Government resumed the property
it immediately began to collect the rents. Also
it immediately became liable for interest on the
purchase-money until the said purchase-money
was paid. Until the alleged owner’s title was
examined and found good, and the amount
to be paid for the property was decided,
it was impossible to say how much interest
was due to the previous owner ; but it was always
a safe thing to assume that it would about absorb
the rents, and to put aside the rents, less expenses,
to pay it. The See Government annexed the
rents as revenue—the rents of properties which
didn’t belong to it, and which it hadn’t paid for—
and spent them as revenue. When, after two
years of waiting, it has decided that Smith or
Jones has £lOO,OOO owing to him for his property
which the State has resumed, and £BOOO for in-
terest accumulated while Smith or Jones was
waiting for the money, the See Government now
simply says to Smith or Jones : “We have col-
lected £BOOO or £9OOO in rents from your property
in the past two years, which ought to be available
to pay the interest due to you for the past two
years, but as we have spent it in keeping up the
boom it isn’t available. So we will pay the
interest out of borrowed money, and hand down
to posterity £lOO,OOO worth of property with
£lOB,OOO mortgage upon it.” If Opposition-
leader Lee had made this dirty little fraud the
subject of his complaint he would have had a case,
but apparently he didn’t comprehend his own
grievance. Attorney-General Wise asked him
to name even one person whose title had
been proved good, and to whom Government
hadn’t promptly tendered the cash. And there-
upon that inefficient spectre, Lee, faded silently
and unsatisfactorily into the distance. Of course
the Government has offered compensation to
everybody whose title has been found to be good.
But the Government can take as long as it pleases
in investigating a title and finding it to be good—
it has already been nearly two years on the job,
and the work doesn’t appear to be half finished
yet. And every month the See-O’Sullivan Gov-
ernment annexes another £20,000 or £30,000 of
rents as revenue, while the interest which
accumulates at the same time is charged to loans,
and the slower the Government is the more money
it makes out of this device. The See-O’Sullivan
Government is willing to argue on every other
phase of the question, but wild horses won’t draw
from it any allusion to this aspect. And while
the See-O’Sullivan Government states confid-
ently that the resumed area will prove a splendid
in vestment,, and. will far more than pay interest
on its cost, it is impossible to drag a semblance of
a promise from it that the profit, if there is one,
will be applied to paying off the debt on the
resumed area, so that N.S. W. will possess at least
one asset that isn’t mortgaged up to the neck.
The idea of resuming the Darling Harbor
frontages and the‘Rocks area was a splendid one
—in fact, the idea of resuming all Sydney would*
have been better still. The trouble is that
N.S.W. hasn’t had an honest Government since
Dibbs’s time, and when a'N.S. W. Government
gets a great and noble idea now, its first anxiety
is apparently to find out how to use it as a vehicle
for a shabby political fraud of one kind or other.
The resumptions are the See vehicle, just as the
Cash Basis was the Reid vehicle. If the average
N. S. W. Government were endowed with the power
of working miracles, it would pick the pocket of
Lazarus’s sister while it was raising Lazarus,
and after Lazarus was raised it would sell his
tombstone to two different people and not deliver
it to either of them.
♦
Squatter Austin’s Indignation.
It is not every curse that comes home to roost so
early and effectively as this : When the Exported
Products Amending Bill—giving inspectors
power, which they do not now possess, to grade
butter and meat, and to reject unsuitable consign-
ments—came before the Victorian House of 48
Rich Landlords last session, that body, threw it
out as an “ unwarrantable interference with the
liberty of the subject,” and so forth. T’other day,
in Melbourne, squatter Austin, chairman of the
Riverina Frozen Meat Co., arose, in a great rage,
to bleat that the action of Vic. Agricultural
Department in branding and allowing the ship-
ment of certain impoverished muttons—subse-
quently condemned in London—was a “ gross
scandal, and that the department had done its
best to ruin Vic. producers in the eyes of English
consumers.” The sober fact of the matter is that
the department has to brand all meat sent for
export with one general brand—so long as it is
sound and free from disease—and is not allowed
to grade exported produce, and the whole blame
for an action that has caused incalculable damage
to Australian —not merely Victorian—stock-
raisers lies directly with the stodgy representa-
tives of squatter Austin and his class—the 48
Rich Landlords. That alleged House of Review,
in its great love for the rights of the individual,
not only declined to give the Agricultural Depart-
ment the right to grade and reject, but compelled it
to brand with the Govt, stamp any abomination a
conscienceless, mercenary producer may choose to
ship, so long as it isn’t actually rotten. The
skeletons recently sent to England (some of them
weighed only lOJlb.) have created a prejudice
against Australian meat that will cost Victorian
squatters many thousands. As they 'are mostly
Tories, and cordial supporters of the Upper
House which caused the loss, it serves them just
about right. It is a wise curse that knows its own
roost, as this one did.
«
More Melbourne Tramway Troubles.
Just as Adelaide has fooled away its tramway
privileges to the Snow syndicate the ghost of the
Melbourne tramway monopoly rises again. Mel-
bourne made what looked like a much better
bargain with its monopoly than Adelaide has
done. Among other things it gave away its street
rights for a shorter term, and it reserved to Par-
liament the right to revise and compulsorily
reduce the fares after a certain period. What it
forgot was that mere figures on paper are dead
things, and that agreements are only ink, and
that the human equation lies behind all these. It
overlooked the probability that the shares would
be held in so many influential places that the co.
might get an extension of its term and that Par-
liament might refuse to revise the fares, and that
in consequence the wise precautions might prove
a dead letter. And that was just what happened.
Parliament didn’t revise the fares when the time
came, the reason assigned being that the Tramway
Co. was a poor, crushed, suffering thing, which
was only making 5 per cent, (it was making 9g per-
cent. on its real capital just then, but a judicious
capitalisation of profits made it look like 5 percent.)
The shareholders of this gorgeous monopoly have
received dividends varying from 9J to 38| per cent,
per annum on the money they put in—they now
receive 24 per cent. This is in addition to setting
aside very large sums for the repayment of their
capital when the lease expires. The fares are
high, and the co., having managed to make things
right with Parliament, refused to make any
reduction until a Sydney man began to run a
number of old-fashioned penny ’buses on certain
of the tram routes. Then a reduction was made
on those routes only. But in order to maintain
these reductions the public must, to a great
extent, abandon its comfortable .trams and go
back to the antiquated conveyances of the Dark
Ages ; if the ’buses are run off for want of patron-
age the tram fares will rise again, for a dead cer-
tainty. Under these circumstances the numerous
municipal councils of Melbourne are talking
about buying out the monopoly, and it is said
they have received an indirect intimation thatthe
co. is willing to sell provided it gets a price equal
to its profits (which are about 36 per cent. —24 per
cent, dividend and the balance going to reserves)
until the end of the lease, 14 years ahead.
Things have changed greatly since the time
when Parliament threatened the much-needed re-
vision of fares. Then the co. posed as a poor,
barren thing whose monopoly was paying so
badly that it would almost give it away with a
pound of tea, and it escaped the revision of fares
by reason of its poverty. Now it remarks, in
quite a different tone, that if the councils wish to
purchase its splendidly-remunerative undertaking
they must pay an adequate price. Probably the
councils will be better advised to leave things
alone till 1916, or till the 24 per cent, dividend co.
comes to reason, and meanwhile help along the
penny ’bus service all they can. There are many
possibilities inside 14 years—trams may be wholly
superseded by some newer and better device
before half that period has elapsed.
♦
Federal Treasurer Turner proposes to retire from
office and politics at the first dissolution of Parlia-
ment, and there is noone in sightfit to take his place.
Turner is the Australian politician who turns up
once in 60 years or 80. He is a good democrat
who never calls himself a democrat, and the only
financier of his period who has practised strict
economy all the time. His word has always been
his bond. His personal popularity has carried
good democratic measures which no one else could
carry. In a mild, silent, beaming way this elderly
solicitor pushed through, in the teeth of the
strongest and almost the most Tory Upper House
in Australia, measures which, in some points, put
Victoria at the head of the world’s democratic
legislation. Hisminimum-wage, old-age pensions,
and State Land Bank were reforms which a man
like Seddon puts through with a roar that attracts
the attention of the whole globe ; Turner passed
them so silently that he hardly got even an adver-
tisement out of them. He has been strictly
sober in a land where politicians are often drunk.
He never made any speeches he could avoid,
and those he had to make were as short as possible.
In a country where the politician’s dishonored
P.N. is a standing joke no one ever saw his signa-
ture, on any document that wasn’t paid. The
Ministerial salary isn’t nearly large enough to
make it worth the while of a man like Turner to
stay in politics. Moreover, he is the unobtrusive
cart-horse of the Ministry and does work that
other men shirk, and he is probably tired.
Also bis sense of order makes him feel out of
place under Barton’s haphazard and untidy
leadership, and his sense of economy doesn’t fit
him for a Ministry where things go like waste
paper flying before the wind. When he leaves.
Kingston and O’Connor will remain to keep
Barton from flopping into utter wreck, and if
either of them follows Turner’s example the
Barton Cabinet may as well close up.
♦
Arthur Griffith to The Bulletin
By their last move in selling the farms of their gallant
enemies the Chamberlain gang has about put up a
record for meanness. Till the perpetration of this last
infamy, their thieving has been more or less of a
buccaneering character—now they have descended to
petty larceny.
It isn’t only the farms of the leaders, as the cables
would infer, that are being sold. The work is being done
systematically, and has been in operation for some time.
In Johannesburg Star of three months back appeared
the following par. :
“ Particulars are gazetted of 15 farms in the 0.R.C.,
which are to be sold on March 15 in Bloemfontein, to pro-
vide for the recovery of the costs of maintenance of the
families of the owners, these latter not having surren-
dered before the 15lh September, 1901.”
Olher nations in semi-barbarous days have burnt and
harried the territories of their enemies," but when has any
nation claiming to be civilised sunk so low as to sell, in
cold blood, the homesteads of men whose only crime has
been to defend their country ? It looks as if the Chamber-
lain gang are trying to see how much a blood-drunk
Empire will stand : but surely even the gorges of the
most savage Jingoes must rise at this last degrada-
tion. Up till now the British Government has
claimed vast credit for its generosity in housing
and feeding the women and children of the
enemy—though what less they could do after burning
them out, one cannot imagine, unless they were to follow
the advice of the Sunday Times and leave them to rot in
the rain, or get Seddon’s Maoris to disembowel them.
But the man who will burn out a man’s wife and children
and then sell his land to pay for their keep (on a mud
floor in a rain-soaked tent) is a combination of bum-
bailiff and barbarian that, till now, all the ages have
failed to produce. If the thing goes on we shall next hear
of the Boers being ca sa’d for the funeral expenses of their
wives and children in the concentration camps. That
would develop quite a mine of wealth to the Jingoes.
This, from the Trade Review, a dry and unemo-
tional, purely business circular published in
London, is a very common sample of English
literature nowadays :
Agriculture. —The acreage under wheat cultivation in
the United Kingdom is less than it has ever been —half
what it was 25 years ago, and it continues to decrease,
being now well below 2,000,000 acres. It is not surprising
that, with an ever-increasing population, we have arrived
at the state that, out of every five loaves consumed daily,
nearly four are produced from foreign and colonial wheat.
“Protection" is the word increasingly heard in com-
mercial circles, and undoubtedly protective duties have
the effect of nurturing home industries, so that the indus-
trial classes have continual work. The worker must be
fed ; if we cannot give him employment we must support
him by a Poor Rate, and whether he should get his living
by means of “ protected ” industries or in the workhouse
labor yard is the burning question. There were, on
January Ist, 1901, more than 800,000 people in England
and Wales depending on the Poor Rate 3 for their exist-
ence. Roughly speaking, nearly one in every two of the
wage-earning class, one out of every three of the total
population, and two out of every three of the lower-paid
workers, agricultural laborers and unskilled workmen
become paupers on passing the age of 65.
♦
The Victorian Reform Party—mostly a country
party which had its origin among the landowners
of Kyabram— has missed its opportunity. All
the “ reform ” it has specified consists in saving a
miserable £14,700 a year by abolishing a part of
the Assembly—the Democratic House —and that
isn’t much. And the Government could save five
times that amount by abolishing the subsidy of
£75,000 a year paid to the Railway Department on
condition that it carries the grain of the Kyabram
and other farmers below cost. It could save
£150,000 a year in grants for country
roads, and make the country maintain
its own roads. In Footscray, the working-
man’s suburb of Melbourne, rates are 2s. 3d.
in the £. In Rodney shire, where Kyabram is
situated, the rates are Is. in the £, and the greedy
local landowners get the Treasury to help them
(partly at the expense of the Footscray workmen)
to make up the difference. And the State could
still save £200,000 by repealing a certain recent
Act and making the swindling landlords of Kya-
bram district keep to their agreement to pay for
their own waterworks. Also, the £1335 a year
which Rodney, the shire in which Kyabram is
situated, gets by way of a further annual endow-
ment might be saved, and Kyabram might pay
its way as Footscray does. There are lots of
savings the “Kyabram programme” crowd has
overlooked.
“ E.F.” to The Bulletin :
We are told that the free and horny-handed electors of
Richmond (Melb.) have been prejudiced against member
Trenwith by the Age’s allusions to his “undemocratic”
attitude on tour. Mr. Trenwith sits convicted of
luxuriating in a “ ducal car ” when he travels from place
to place as Minister of Vic. Railways. He takes his work
easy instead of taking it hard. He has done the things
that were done by previous Ministers of Railways who
didn’t happen to be Labor members, and there is no
humility in him. He “lolls ” upon the springy upholstery
of the saloon-carriage just as though a Labor member
would not be more suitably employed in stoking the
eng'ne fire. The Age’s attacks on «“ Trenny ” are
utterly undemocratic in sentiment, but they serve
the purpose of his adversary, Boss Syme, by appealing
to the spirit of envy which is rife among men,
“working” or otherwise. What is Trenwith that
he should 101 l upon the cushions of a “ ducal car,”
asks the average Richmond elector. Well, he’s the strong,
fluent talker who rose from the ranks of the Bootmakers’
Union to be a member of Vic. Government, and who,
having so risen, was sneered at the other Monday when
he took his place, in tweed suit and felt hat, among the
marching bootmakers in the Melbourne Eight Hours’
Procession. No matter how he may shape nowadays
Trenwith must expect to be sneered at. He is really
nothing, for all that he has lolled like one who thinks him-
self something. Australian democracy objects to any-
body being anything unless he comes from Europe with
his importance thick upon him. A few weeks ago when
a Flemington race-train was about to leave Spencer-street
station, Melbourne latecomers hurried along the platform
looking for a carriage that wasn’t already full. Each of
them in turn spotted a compartment not nearly full,
but they found the door locked. Whereupon they looked
for a reason why the door was locked, and saw
Edmund Barton and a lady occupying the reserved
space. And the baffled ones, hurrying further along the
platform, protested in most cases—“ Toby Barton ! who’s
he that he should have a carriage to himself ? ” Those
citizens of the Commonwealth would have denied their
Prime Minister the right to be treated as a person of dis-
tinction. It is bad for a country to hold its leading
native products cheap merely because its most expensive
goods of the human sort have hitherto been imported,
and are likely to be imported for some years to come.
When the democratic sentiment hereabouts has been
educated up to a sense of the relative value of things, it
will cease to sneer at the little privileges of big men,
whilst sanctioning the large privileges of little lords
without a demur.
♦
A private letter received from Pretoria (passing
the censor only by an ingenious device) shows
that The Bulletin surmise as to German influ-
ence operating for the execution of Morant and
Handcock was correct. When the death sen-
tence was promulgated (18 hours before it was put
into effect) counsel for the prisoners, Major
Thomas, sought an interview with Lord Ketch-
ener, and found that he had left Pretoria for that
and the following day—probably with the idea of
avoiding any appeals for mercy. Major Thomas
then sought out the next in command, General
Kelly, and implored him to defer execution until
an appeal had been made to King Edward. The
request was refused, and Major Thomas given to
understand that the matter had already been
referred to the authorities in England, and that
“international considerations” rendered stern
action necessary. Morant and Handcock were
found “not guilty” on the charge of shooting
German missionary Heese, but that, it seems,
was what they were shot for, all the same.
»
The “sweating of the child” (B. 14/4/’O2) is not
confined to the Australian continent. In Maori-
land, too, especially since the war took so many
adults away, this form of cruelty is rampant. A
schoolmaster was dismissed by Wanganui Educa-
tion Board, the other day, owing to the unfavor-
able reports of the inspector on his school. He
placed his case before the Teachers’ Court of
Appeal, and the evidence, adduced during a sitting
extending over three days, was startling. Children
who had to do milking early and late were said to
be listless, inattentive, and sleepy, their home-
labor being prejudicial to school-work. One wit-
ness, who had made special inquiries, reported
that the proportion of boys engaged in milking
more than six cows was 25 percent, of those above
the first standard on the school-roll. He didn’t
count lads who milked six cows and under. The
Appeal Board seemed to recognise that it


Baker & Rouse Proprietary Ltd.
fg
the largest and most up-to-date stock of
EDISON’S PHONOGRAPHS
THE ACME OF REALISM.
Perfect Reproductions of Sound are obtained by using
Edison Records.
Looking for the Band. 3-75 GrBORGrB STREET, SYDIXTEY
260 Collins Streets
MELBOURNE.
90 and 92 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
65 Rundle Street,
ADELAIDE.
‘ AWMILL MACHINERY.
* BAND or CIRCULAR MILLS, very heavy for
hardwood timber. Complete Outfits of an y
city. BAND RESAWS. ENGINES. BOILERS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
PULP MACHINERY. GRIP PULLEYS.
FLOUR MILLING MACHINERY.
“ALUS” ROLLER FLOUR MILLS on the
UNIVERSAL BOLTER SYSTEM.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 24 Clarence-street, SYDNEY
| FACILE PRINCEPS. | | SEMPER IDEM-l
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
couldn’t expect any master, under such circum-
stances, to keep his scholars up to the mark, for
the dismissed man was reinstated. It is, of course,
hopeless to look for any remedial action whilst the
blood-drunk Seddon continues in power. But,
when a merciful British Government removes that
person to some “ higher sphere” of usefulness (a
nigger-bossing job in the West Indies should pro-
vide a suitable outlet for Mr. Seddon’s present
ambitions), this child-sweating may be prohibited
by legislation.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
ROTAii . “ A Runaway Girl.”
Lyceum “In Sight of St. Paul’s.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Palace World’s Entertainers.
Criterion' “ Gates of Bondage.”
Centenary Hall Newbury-Spada Pops
(Saturday and Wednesday).
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess •* Facing the Music.”
Her Majesty’s “ Romeo and Juliet.”
Theatre Royal “ The Favorite.”
Bijou “ Why Smith Left Home."
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
«
A multitudinous house welcomed back the
Comic Opera Co. at Sydney Royal on Saturday.
Unreliable persons of bad character said it was
the largest gathering the Royal had ever contained,
and, judging by the kindly manner in which the
“ Runaway Girl” was received, the old house may
continue in this-state of crush for some time.
The “ Runaway Girl ” is a tender little episode of
the kind that Miss Braddon-Ouida-Corelli might
have built a tearful novel on. Its tenderness may
be obscured by the musical brigands, and the bald
lay brother, and Lauri’s courier, but it is there
none the less. An English heiress, educated in
the retirement and holy calm of a convent in
Corsica, receives a peremptory warning that she
is to return home to her guardians, whom she
doesn’t remember, and that a marriage is being
arranged for her with their nephew, whom she has
never seen. There are no weddings or riotous
young nephews in the convent, and the nearest
approach to a man is the fatted lay brother.
The girl blushes all over at the thought of being
handed like a bale of goods to this stranger,
and in her shocked modesty she abandons her
wealth and flies to make a precarious living as a
singing-girl in the streets. The fatted lay person,
who is a man as well as a brother, abandons his
career that he may go with her and watch over
her, though he can’t sing any better than a plough.
And a heavenly young man, who proves to be the
nephew, falls in love with the singing-girl, despite
her humble estate, and she loves him, and they
are joined in holy matrimony after all, the blush
having cooled down or worn off. This story might
be made into a dolorous melodrama, with the
heroine reduced to singing in the streets of London,
adjacent to a baked potato stall and a pigs’ feet
barrow and a bloater emporium. But as it takes
place in the sunlight of Corsica, and the
wandering singers include a cheery band of Italian
brigands and a young cockney widow painted
brown, and the lay brother lets his tonsure
grow and mashes the widow, and the gloom is
relieved by a weedy tourist who runs like a demon
with a green net after butterflies, and fishes
dreamily in the Mediterranean, it is quite a
cheerful proceeding. It inspires hope that even
“East Lynne” may become a happy musical
comedy some day, when a capable person has
revised it and changed little Willie into a pirate,
and made Archibald Carlyle jump through a hoop
occasionally.
*„* • *
The “Man from Cook’s” is tho episode
which will be best remembered in the ‘ ‘ Runaway
Girl.” The reasons why certain high-born
English ladies take jumping exercise over hurdles
at Lauri’s instigation are not clear, but the limbs
and frills which they display require no explana-
tion whatever. The spectacle of Grace Palotta
and Carrie Moore rushing at the hurdles will
linger in the memory of many baldheaded men
for many days. There is also the satisfaction of
knowing that the exercise is good for the ladies.
Lauri is a jest of considerable calibre in the new
production, and so is Carrie Moore who plays up
to the principal humorist most successfully.
Claude Bantock, seen in Sydney for the first time,
is a fleshy lay brother of considerable humor
Before he falls away and lets his hair grow he
apparently rules his department of the convent
school kindly but firmly, and when Florence
Young holds out her rosy palm to be caned he
whacks her once with judicious severity. Howard
Vernon has returned, after a long absence, with an
alarming accumulation of flesh, to fill a part which
gives the capable comedian less show than he
deserves. Florence Young, Grace Palotta, and a
new lady, Celia Ghiloni, are received with general
favor; ditto Hugh Ward, Frank Lear, and the
robust Pat Bathurst, who, a 3 the boss brigand,
looks like a gigantic edition of Cecil Ward mixed
with Kenningham. Kenningham, who almost
always looks exactly the same nice young man,
and doesn’t blight his fatal beauty with whiskers,
looks exactly the same once more, and sings his
part cheerfully. The “Runaway Girl” isn’t
an overwhelming musical comedy, but whatever
deficiencies it may have, the Man from Cook’s
will pull it through. The bald space on the lay-
brother’s head gleams with the radiance of an
assured success, and the calm, mild lunatic who
fishes in the Mediterranean and runs after the
beetle which he never catches is a symbol of the
confidence which pervades the management and
all concerned. The mild lunatic’s certainty that
he will catch that beetle some day is a comforting
thing to witness.
m* * *
At Sydney Palace, Wong Ching Gong and
family proved on Saturday to be Bunth, Rudd
and co. in a remarkably poor “conjuring enter-
tainment” —every trick of which has long been
familiar as suburban parlor-magic. The item is
utterly uninteresting and should be withdrawn in
great haste. As a compensation, Miss Ada
Willoughby contributed a new song—“ The Lady
Volunteer which, with her dainty singing and
acting, was more than successful. “ The Merry
World ” now occupies a better place on the
programme, and has also been consistently im-
proved.
** * *
“In Sight of St. Paul’s,” revived by the
Bland Holt co. at Sydney Lyceum last Saturday,
is very ordinary melodramatic stuff, containing a
good brother who is more than usually imbecile.
The desire of a very superfluous old father that
Prances Ross should marry the brother she doesn’t
want to marry, and who doesn’t want to marry
her, instead of the one she does want to marry,
and who is anxious to agree with her on that
point, is responsible for the complications
which ensue. They consist of a murder and
a-half, an immoral house on fire, a large amount
of cab and policeman, and several other
trifles. There is no visible cause or impediment
why Frances Ross should not be allowed to marry
the good elder brother instead of the frivolous
younger one; but it is understood that the old
man’s heart will be broken if she doesn’t take the
bad specimen, so Baker suffers much anguish in
an immaculate evening suit. Further, he takes
his brother’s forgery on his own shoulders, and
nearly knocks the brother down several times
when he still won’t marry Frances, and tries in
every way to bring peace into the home. He then
goes to live in lodgings, where his bedroom is kept
m the cupboard, and Mrs. Bland Holt, who is
the lodging-house slavey, refuses to marry Bland
till Baker’s wrongs are righted. The average
servant-girl in real life does not postpone her own
union with a cabman j ust because an aristocratic
lodger has difficulties with his best girl; but in
stageland such faithful slaveys abound like
rabbits. Presently the Imbecile Father and the
rest of the family flock in, and state that they
have discovered which brother did the forgery,
and Baker, after one or two people have told him
to do so, finally proposes to Frances. Even then,
however, he chases after the younger brother, and
is not really happy till almost hanged by the
usual error of the law.
* * • *
There are some effective scenes in “St.
Paul’s,” notably the burning of the Panther’s
Hen and the arrival of the firemen with the_ hose.
Bland Holt gives his audience plenty of time to
see a display of this sort, and his burning and
falling house dismembers itself slowly and realis-
tically. Miss Harris Ireland, as “The Pan-
ther,” lives up to her nickname well, more
especially in the latter half of the drama.
Frances Ross as the good girl is as usual. Mr.
Kemp does well as the imbecile old father, and
good character sketches are given by Arthur
tyan and Charles Brown. Baker is at his best in
the love scenes. A pretty little incident is intro-
duced in the last act—the dialogue between the
Chelsea pensioners and the Greenwich one. It
hasn’t anything to do with the drama, which is
possibly one of its advantages.
** # *
Pop the First of the Newbury-Spada
popular concerts happened at Sydney Centenary
Hall on Saturday, to an audience of which any
tenor in the flesh or out of the flesh might be
proud. It listened as if it were all ears ; it
applauded as if it were all hands and feet and
umbrella. Miss Lillian Frost, who is a genius
(writer merely mentions this fact gratuitously),
played on the organ some Wiegand-arranged airs
from “Traviata.” Messrs. Vollmar, Allpress and
Sykes are always good wine, and don’t need any
bush. The Newburys will Pop some more on
Saturday.
* * *
“The Gates of Bondage,” written by
Maud Williamson, and founded on Hall Caine’s
“Deemster,” was staged at the newly-opened
Sydney Criterion on Saturday. It isn’t the novel,
but it is a bright enough drama, kept on its legs by
Maud Williamson and Alfred Woods, the other
characters being, on the whole, fairly harmless.
Alfred Woods, as Dan Mylrea, is the champion
bad young man of the island, but his evil reputa-
tion rests mainly on the fact that he killed two
oxen, in a fit of temper at their want of intelli-
gence —a circumstance which cannot be very
impressive to the people of Australia where oxen
perish quite frequently, not in anger but in cold
blood and for the sordid purpose of being put into
a tin. The oxen are killed behind the scenes in
Act 1., but they are mentioned in tones of gloom
in Act 11., and their ghosts don’t haunt the
Island in Act 111., mainly because by this time
Daniel has killed someone else, and this diverts
public attention from the oxen. As a consequence
of the second crime, the inhabitants of Man, who
consist of twenty or thirty people, gather at
Tynwald among the rocks to hear Daniel con-
demned to death by his uncle, and then to
exile by his father. Later on, Mona, Dan’s
sweetheart, has remarks made about her character,
and in obedience to an awkward law in Man, she
is obliged to appear in church clad in white to
take an oath on the subject. At this juncture,
however, the murdered man violently diverges
from the novel by appearing alive and well, and
Dan also comes in to state that he has just married
Mona. The wicked accuser is rushed off by six sol-
diers for reasons not explained, for his accusation
remains just as it was before, Mona not having
been married to Dan at the time mentioned in the
accusation. Nobody inquires into that, however.
By this time the oxen are quite forgotten.
* * * #
Miss Williamson, though too tall for most
of the men characters, makes a very good Mona, her
acting when accused by Jarvis Kerrish being es-
pecially fine. Her part is a trying one, but she
contrives to avoid being monotonous, which is
something in the case of a heroine who is in
a state of dejection for five acts. Alfred
Woods has a slight tendency to overdo the
boyishness of Dan Mylrea’s character, but
his acting throughout is natural and bright,
and shows considerable study. The other
characters are of no great note. A larger
bishop, with more impressive hair, would have
looked better. His may be the sort of hair
an Isle of Man bishop always wears, but it
wouldn’t do in a more progressive locality. The
behaviour of the ocean at Peel Beach is also
erratic. There are about five waves, but only
the front one moves up and down. When the
fight is going on, even it stops and takes a rest.
** * *
On the evening of Thursday, the 15th, a
“ Night in Bohemia” 'will rage at the Town Hall,
Sydney, in order to give the great conventional
public an opportunity to see how Bohemians
really live, and also the privilege of contributing
to the Victor J. Daley fund. Mr. Daley has been
ordered a sea trip for his health, and the fund is
needed to keep the pot boiling in that part of
Bohemia where the Daley family dwell, while the
poet drinks in new inspiration elsewhere.
** * *
“ Dead wood Dick’s Revenge,” or “ Hands
Up” was said to have been started at Sydney
Empire last week. The writer can supply a
reliable personal assurance that something was
produced in that small building, and it
might just as well, for convenience sake,
be called “Deadwood Dick” as anything
else. The company occasionally threatened
to remember its part on that opening night.
The proceedings left an impression that bits
of act 11. dropped into act 1., and that
act 111. was mostly invented as it went along.
Sometimes six persons remembered their
parts at the same moment, and said
them all at once, and several times
actors went on out of due season, like the goose-
berry that is picked before it is ripe, and had to
be dragged off and expostulated with in the side
scenes. This so annoyed the scenery that it
nearly knocked some Deadwood characters off the
stage, after which somebody was hanged, but,
unfortunately, not completely. When nobody
could think of anything to say next, someone
would fill in time by remarking “ Hands up, or I
fire,” which gave the company time to invent a new
act. These remarks refer to certain men of the
company. The actresses knew their parts, and
Miss Rose Phillips would have made a nice
enough melodramatic heroine if her Deadwood
lover had shown any warmth. But Texas Bill
had apparently been chosen for the part because
he could introduce a variety item by carrying
people around with his teeth, and his attitude
towards Rose was one of gloom. When she was
tied up to a tree to be burned alive, he regarded
the proceedings with indifference, and her ultimate
rescue aroused him to no apparent enthusiasm.
** * *
There was no change of note in the Sydney
Tivoli programme this week. Peggy Pryde fol-
lows up her artistic pictures of “slavey ” life with
“The Honey-suckle and the Bee” —painfully
incongruous and unmusical from her. Mr. S.
Holdsworth has a new set of sentimental illus-
trated songs, which meet with the cordial approval
of the gallery. The gentle gallery loves sentiment.
** * *
The absolutely final farewell of the Broughs
in Melbourne seems to have been reduced to a
statement that their reappearance on the local
stage at any future time is “highly improbable.”
As a matter of fact, Brough hopes to bring out
more companies to Australia, though not with
himself and Mrs. B. in leading parts. And if he
returns in a managerial capacity it will be a
strange thing if General Desire doesn’t induce
him to reappear in at least one character. The
old General is an irresistible force where actors
are concerned.
** * #
Frank Thornton and his imported co. put
in a cheerful appearance at Melb. Princess’s last
Saturday. The rapid comedy of errors which
brought Thornton back to notice and disclosed
the fact that Time has dealt geutly with him
these last five years, is not the most promising
thing he has staged, though it compares favorably
enough with several other farces of recent date.
If it didn’t invite comparison its prospects would
be brighter, also it would probably carry a dif-
ferent name. “ Facing the Music ” might just as
well have been published earlier under the title of
“What Happened to the Wrong Mr. Smith.”
The story contains two married pairs of Smiths,
together with a bachelor guest, an uncle, and a
housekeeper of the right Mr. Smith, and a detec-
tive who suspects all the Smiths of being some-
body else. The only other character is a genial
lady in the theatrical line of business, who met
the right Smith by accident and helps to increase
his worries by not coming along to explain some-
thing. The principal Smith — i.e., Thornton Smith
—has many worries arising from the ancient
expedient of his wife’s absence in the country.
When that devoted female returns home sooner
than she ought to have returned, her husband
doesn’t tell her everything she ought to know re
the other Mrs. Smith. In fact nobody attempts
to arrive at a proper understanding of anything
until the farce has lasted two hours and the funda-
mental foolishness of the situation has exhausted
its strength. The best thing in the last act is a
long mock-tragedy speech by the right Smith,
which suggests that if Frank Thornton had been
caught when very young and restricted to the
immortal lines of W. Shakespeare, Esq. , he might
have earned a respectable living as Richard the
Third. In other respects Thornton is a brisk,
eccentric comedian bustling through an ordinary
farcical-husband part at the head of an active and
intelligent co. which strikes one as being stronger
on the male side than elsewhere.
*** * *
“A Test Match” precedes “Facing the
Music,” and in this brief musical extravaganza
Joseph Wilson proves himself a weloome stranger.
Mr. Wilson is the three traditional suitors of the
plump domesticated cook. Firstly, as a police-
man, he pins his hopes to his loved one’s pie;
secondly, he is a soldier seeking the bubbled
’toxication, even at the tankard’s mouth ; lastly,
the sailor who captures the cook by choosing a
glass of cold water with whisky in it. The songful
cockney-character actor is assisted by Miss
Phoebe Mercer and Galway Herbert, and all five
people were equal to raising a laugh on Saturday.
* ' * * *
Her Majesty’s Theatre (Sydney) is not
to be rebuilt. The Royal is now the only
house where a “big piece” can be played,
and its capacity is not nearly equal to what
Her Majesty’s was, either in regard to audi-
torium or stage. The Tivoli and Palace are very
fine theatres, but with small stage capacity—
suitable only for “ variety,” or comedy. The
Lyceum has a fair stage, but it is not, on the
whole, a first-class theatre ; nor, of course, is the
Criterion. Whilst there is no call for a greater
number of theatres, the substitution of a large,
first-class modern house for one of the existing
smaller ones is urgently needed.
## * *
“ As You Like It,” the most irrepressible
of Divine William’s musical comedies, has shifted
its latest Australian epidemic to Her Majesty’s,
Melb., where the “ specially selected chorus of
20 trained voices” doesn’t offer much consolation
for the loss of “Dorothy” and “A Runaway
Girl.” A humane notice of “As You Like It”
appeared in The Bulletin a fortnight back;
therefore the present historian relieves himself of
what might have been a melancholy duty by
murmuring “ditto” to the previous remarks.
Miss Janet Waldorf is a capable actress, likewise
Norval M'Gregor is an actor who keeps his end up,
but their individual and collective lack of dis-
tinction will make it hard for them to set the
Yarra on fire. Melbourne forbore from rushing
the show last Saturday, and, somehow, the mode-
rately full house almost forgot to applaud the re-
appearance of H. H. Vincent. From which the
present scribe assumes that the audience was
mostly too young to remember H.H.V. aforesaid,
or not sufficiently familiar with “ As You Like
It” to recognise the melancholy Jaques at a
glance. The Waldorf revival is disposed to be
light in spirit, and the trouble terminates in a
dance instead of an epilogue. “Romeo and
Juliet ” will expire together next Saturday.
** * *
Tom Wootwell, one of the very few pro-
fessedly comic persons who knows how to make
this country reciprocate his abundant smile, is
getting joyful receptions at the Opera House just
now. Thomas, it seems, has been re-imported for
the purpose of singing his old songs as well as new
ones. In the meantime he confines himself to
songs new or nearly new, including the ballad of
a hen that sat upon a sausage and hatched a
poodle. Fagan and Byron, especially Byron, are
pleasing the patrons of Rickards’s. The little
lady from America is the gladdest worker that
ever was since Lottie Moore went away.
** * *
“ The Favorite,” a drama of horse and
chloroform, seemed to get well off the scratch at
Melbourne Royal, last Saturday. At 11.15 p.m.,
when Willard was found administering deadly
cough drops to the long-lost boy who rescued his
unknown mother from a cistern, the people in
front were apparently not yet weary of Willard’s
evil-doing. They had yielded to the drama’s
horrible fascinations, and were prepared to lose
their last train rather than miss the final
despairing scowl of the baffled chloroformer.
The scent of the horse and the odour of the
anaesthetic had entered into their souls. There
is no arguing against an entertainment which
supplies a public want for three hours and twenty-
five minutes. “ The Favorite, ”if badly acted and
shabbily fixed-up, would be a hopeless speculation,
but a good deal of the acting at the Royal is very
worthv of its hire, the animal that plays the name
part is well supported by its dumb accomplices,
and the scenery earns several rounds of genuine
applause. Therefore, Robert Inman will probably
go to scale at Bst. lOlbs. for some considerable
period, and the dry and dusty form of Miss Dug-
gan will arise from a watery grave on the house-
top every evening until further notice.
* Hf * *
At Melb. Bijou the revived “ Why Smith
Left Home ” now answers the purpose of a sequel
to “Wrong Mr. Wright,” which left a fat ’Frisco
millionaire hovering on the brink of matrimony
with charming Roxy Barton. That the marriage
turned out well may be inferred from the furni-
ture and appointments of the Willoughby-Smith
household, not to mention the husband’s grief at
his having kissed Julia in mistake for his bride.
Australian “ May ” is hereby advised, should she
get the chance, to accept the name and address of
Yankee “September,” provided, of course, the
latter’s cloud of years has a golden lining.
* * » *
Julia Merton, who succeeds poor Sallie
Booth as Smith’s “ cook-lady,” uses a recipe unlike
her predecessor’s, though nearly, if not quite, as
good in its own way. Poor Sallie’s creation was a
slim, spry, Irish-American spinster. Miss Mer-
ton’s is an enormously fat Tipperary widow, with
warm-colored hair, complexion to match, and some
experience, perhaps, of pub.-keeping in Australia.
Roxy Barton makes “Mrs. Smith” far younger
and prettier than Agnes Knights could do, but
the latter’s touch of tender-heartedness seems
lacking in present version. Lillie Bryer, who
does Smith’s spinster sister, formerly played by
dead-and-gone Ada Lee, dresses the mature
“Juliet” poorly and further detracts from the
credit of the “Smith” family-tree by her com-
plexion make-up. Ada Lee, in the part, waspalpably
passe but rather dressy and not uncomely. Hope
Mayne, in Dot Frederics’ shoes, as the clever
lady’s maid, and Millie Ascoli, playing Miss
Mayne’s former part, help to make present Smith
household unfamiliar. Miss Watts-Phillips, as
Auntie, is perhaps a little too terrifying. Men
look quite cowed when her eyes flash fire and her
lips breathe brimstone and vitriol at the wretched
“General.” Cannam, as the Count, will be
better when he gets a little more way on his per-
formance, which remark applies to all new-comers
in all such pieces. The first duty of a Broad-
liurstian comedian is hustle ; also the second duty
is hustle, and the third is identical with the other
two.
* sle * sfe
“ Sweet Nell of Old Drury ”at Adelaide
Royal has been simply rushed by the public, even
though coming just after comic opera. General
verdict that, barring Nell herself, the men are far
stronger than the women. Thomas Hudson, co-
lessee of the theatre after Wybert Reeve’s de-
parture, is back with this co. as manager (F. H.
Pollock is now sole lessee). The Tivoli (which
was “ Hudson’s Bijou ” for some years) has the
Cragg family as backbone of a strong programme,
including also Murphy and Mack, Nadine, from
Paris, and Brown - Parker, the American ball-
puncher.


hgf
TRAMWAYS. TRAMWAYS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop. Ltd.
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material.
PF" Locomotives from, 10 to 250 h.p. "TBB
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel Sleepers,
Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical advice gratuitously
rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated Catalogues and Photo-
graphic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different parts of the World, upon
application, A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager,
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big- prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,"
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of i ron-work. *
* + * *
Mr. A. Gilfillan, B.Sc., C.E. (Edin.), Mining
and Metallurgical Engineer, Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne, is leaving for London about April next, for
the purpose of establishing a London office, and attending
to the flotation of approved mining and other proposi-
tions. Before leaving Mr. Gilfillan will visit the various
colonies for the purpose of inspecting any options which
may be offered. Correspondence invited from mine
owners who have properties worth handling.*
• * * •
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * •* » '
See for yourself. The Australian Medical
Gazette of January, 1891, compares Zetz Spa to the cele-
brated Vichy waters of France, and states that it is
valuable for gout, rheumatism, gravel, catarrh of the
bladder, diabetes, dyspepsia, splenic and hepatic dis-
orders.
* # * •
Vanning Tables. —The very newest and what
gives exceedingly fair promise of superseding all other
tables is the machine known as the Wesley-Baird Vanning
Table. The table is of South Australian invention, and
has given excellent results on Broken Hill ores and ores
containing pyrites, carbonate of copper and tin. Like all
tables, the best work is done on “ fines,” and more espe-
cially when the product is properly classified. The
Central Mining and Tramway Co., of 424 Little Collins-
street, Melbourne, and 40 Hunter-street, Sydney, are the
sole agents in the Eastern States. The table has a capa-
city up to 30 tons per day.*
* * • •
Local Government Journal, July, 1901 :
“ The Colonial Mutual in 1900 : Funds 31st. March, 1875,
£2864 ; Funds 31st. December, 1900, £2,491,989. We
believe that we are correct in stating that no life assur-
ance office in the world can show such a record as that
given above.”*
* * • *
The Gardiner Electric Rock Drill, which has
been lately introduced into these Colonies by the sole
agents, the Austral Otis Company of South Melbourne,
can now be seen in operation at their works at any time
by appointment. It is very simple in its mechanism,
and remarkably effective in its work. It is economical
in the cost of operation, consuming less than one fifth of
the power and fuel required to operate a drill working
with compressed air, and, besides, it is less costly to
iiistal in a mine, it being easier and much cheaper to run
the wires in place of air pipes. It has already been
adopted by several mines here, among which are the
Boulder, Perseverance, Kalgoorlie, North Gippsland,
Grant, and the Marodian Company. The machine is
built in several sizes, suitable for any class of rock or
mine work, and can he operated under any conditions in
which machine drilling can be done. It is also specially
suitable for railway and quarry work, owing to its
portability. The machine has been extensively adopted
in America and Europe.*
* * * *
Sensational find of rich copper lode reported
from Mt. Buchanan (50 miles from Chillagoe). Lode
allegedly 13ft. thick, and a sample assay goes 70 per
cent.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shaving’s, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Arsenic, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and Blasting Charges.
Hy. Markwald
178 William-street;,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st. , Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Eagle-street,
Britsb. ; and at Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, and
Auckland, NZ.
The Wild Cat Column.
The Financial Reform League, of Tasmania,
like the similar institution in Victoria, demands that all
borrowing for unproductive works shall cease. It is a
most commendable idea, and one that The Bulletin has
preached in season and out of season for more years than
it likes to remember. But the financial reformers must
remember that this sort of thing can’t be done without
money. Unproductive works (roads, bridges, culverts,
gaols, court-houses, public buildings of all sorts, break-
waters, dredging-works, fortifications, and many other
things) are absolutely essential, and the only way to
reform is to pay for them out of revenue, and if the
revenue isn’t sufficient to raise more revenue. Very few
people realise what a miserably small sum the Common-
wealth States raise by taxation compared with the amount
that they borrow for unproductive works —works which
should be charged to revenue. For instance, for 1901: —
Borrowed
Land and All other forunpro-
. income direct Total taxa- ductive
taxes. taxes. tion. works.
Victoria ..£318,262..£406,523.. £724,785.. £313,735
S.A 166,948.. 116,373.. 283,321.. 148,904
N.S.W. .. 493,673.. 572,121.. 1,065,794.. 1,056,007
Tasmania .. 89,796.. 63,798.. 153,594.. 163,709
Queensland .. Nil .. 329,777.. 329,777.. 677,430
Westralia .. Nil .. 144,103.. 144,103.. 289,763
£2,701,374 £2,649,548
There are thus two States in which the amount of revenue
raised by all forms of direct taxation (including land and
income tax, licenses, probate duties, bank-note tax, &c.)
is less than half the amount raised by the misappropria-
tion of loan funds 1 There are three in which the total
amount raised by all forms of direct taxation is less than
the amount raised by loan steal, and a fourth State
(N.S.W.) has nearly got there. Victoria and S.A. make
the best showing, and theirs is none too good. It would
require a mighty dead lift to put even this one public
swindle straight, but as the dead lift is getting worse
every year, it is better to make the effort now. Why it
requires such a dead lift is simply that the States have
already to pay about these amounts every year for interest
on money already borrowed and spent unproductively :
Victoria .. £145,050 Tasmania .. £157,732
S. Australia.. 227,920 Queensland.. 415,675
N.S. Wales .. 483,293 Westralia .. 115,865
In proportion to population the dead weight of the old
borrowing curse coming home to roost is heaviest in Tas-
mania and Queensland, and they are the most distressed
States as a natural consequence.
• • • •
“ Croyez ” : At your age (60) the City Mutual
Life Assurance Society will give you an annuity of £lO
11s. lOd. per annum for every £lOO invested, which is the
highest rate you can obtain anywhere. Or either the
Equitable of New York, the Mutual Life of New York, or
the New York Life will give you £9 7s. 7d. for each £lOO.
• • • *
Queensland’s wheat crop increased from 1,194,088
bushels in 1900 to 1,692,222 bushels in 1901—the best
wheat harvest in the State’s record.
* * # *
The Illawarra Steam Navigation Co. (Sydney):
Profits. Dividends. W '« fcen Re ‘
off. serves.
March, 1900.. £27,506
Sept., 1900.. £2098 8} per cent. =£2490 27,114
March, 1901.. 2777 8f „ „ 2490 27,401
Sept., 1901.. 2215 sf „ „ 2490 £625 26,501
March, 1902.. 2392 8} „ „ 2490 26,403
The reserves are still large by comparison with the capital
of £58,096 paid-up, yet their continuous diminution is not
satisfactory. In 1896 the reserves were considerably over
£32,000, so the diminishing process has travelled a con-
siderable distance in the in terim. A7£ per cent, dividend
would leave a small margin to strengthen the co.’s
position, and that amount would be quite sufficient to
pay under the circumstances.
* * • *
It transpires that the price at which the Mel-
bourne Tramway Co. was willing to sell out to the
councils was £1,200,000. The tramway shareholders put
£250,000 into the concern. They have received dividends
on this varying from 9| to 38J per cent.—the present rate
is 24 per cent. If they lost their whole tramways to-day
without compensation—if the entire business was confisca-
ted —the shareholders would still have £400,000 of savings,
which are invested outside their business—enough to return
them 325. in the £. They want £950,000 more—and this
is merely for the surrender of a lease which has only lk
years to run. If it was for the surrender of a permanent
interest it would be a heavy price, but for the surrender
of al4 years’ lease it is outrageous. Most joyful of all is
the recollection that Parliament didn’t exercise its right
to enforce a much-needed reduction of tram fares because
this tremendously-profitable concern wept about its
poverty till it almost convinced the Assembly that it was
as poor as Job ! 1 1
* * * *
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co., one of the big
N.S.W. industries which grew up through the Protection
afforded it by a long succession of bogus Freetrade
Governments, has just completed the most profitable
half-year in its history :
Added
Profits. Dividends to Total
Res’v’s. Res’v’s
March, 1897 £85,480 10 per cent. = £85,100 £3BO £418,126
Sept., 1897 85,307 10 „ „ 85,100 207 418,333
March, 1898 85.728 10 „ „ 85,100 628 418,961
Sept., 1898 85,408 10 „ „ 85,100 308 419,269
March, 1899 85,588 10 „ „ 85,100 488 419,757
Sept., 1899 85,819 10 „ „ 85,100 719 420,476
March, 1900 89,414 10 „ „ 89,255 159 420,635
Sept., 1900 89,389 10 „ „ 89,344 45 420,680
March, 1901 93,608 10 „ „ 93,537 71 420,751
Sept., 1901 93,930 10 „ „ 93,610 320 421,071
March, 1902 100,199 10 „ „ 99,776 423 421,494
This is taking no account of a Replacement and Deprecia-
tion Fund of £483,955, which is not treated as a reserve
but written off the assets. Altogether the Colonial Sugar
Refining Co. is not doing badly. Six months ago the
deeply grieved chairman (Kater, of N.S.W. Upper House)
told the shareholders that the stoppage of Kanaka labor
“ must cause the collapse of the sugar industry within
the tropics,” but the catastrophe is still mercifully post-
poned. This half-year Kater, M.L.C., is enabled, by the
blessing of Providence, to mention that the co. is offering
the Queensland farmers a much higher price for their
cane than heretofore. As the co. finds itself able to do
this, with no more Protection, taking Australia on the
average, than it had before, it would seem, in the absence
of any other explanation, that while the farmer could
produce cheaply with his nigger the co. took the profit of
the nigger by giving him low prices. And now, when he
can’t produce so cheaply with white labor, the co. gives
him higher prices because it pays it better to give high
prices and make a moderate profit than let the sugar
farmer die out and make no profit in Queensland at all.
Even with the increased prices the co. is doing
very well. And the worker on the canefield, as he will
get higher wages, will do better. And the farmer, getting
increased prices to make up for increased cost of labor,
will probably do well enough, too. Anyhow, as, in addi-
tion to getting better prices, his crop this year shows a
very great improvement on last year’s return, his extinc-
tion appears to be postponed for the present.
* * » •
Tooliey’s Brewery, another of the great and
profitable industries which arose through Protection in
allegedly Freetrade N.S.W., has been floated into a co.,
capital £550,000 in 550,000 £1 shares. The Tooheys take
375,000 shares, so they will, apparently, have absolute
control as far as the voting power goes. The assets
are set down at £477,932, and as there are some
small liabilities, the net assets are probably about
£465.000. The balance is, presumably, goodwill, which
should mean that there is a paper asset of between
£BO,OOO and £90,000 to write off before any real reserves
can be accumulated. Last year’s profits are set down as
£59,718, so it is estimated that the co. can pay 7 per cent,
and provide for directors’ fees and income tax, and have
£16,000 over (enough to wipe off the goodwill item in
about five years) provided this rate is maintained. It
looks a reasonably good spec. It also looks as if the old
proprietors were making a pretty good thing out of the
sale.
• * » •
The City an 3 Suburban Permanent Building
and Investment Society (Brisbane, Queensland) continues
to make as good progress as could be expected in that
depressed State: m , ,
Dividends and Written Total
Profits. Dividend Tax. off. Reserves.
Dec., 1896 .. £4076 3 p.c. = £2953 £7,928
„ 1897 .. 4110 3 „ „ 2797 £366 8,875
„ 1898 .. 4681 3£ „ ~ 3125 102 10,329
Feb., 1900 .. 5914 4„ „ 4007 211 12,025
„ 1901 .. 4937 4 „ „ 3221 556 13,185
~ 1902 .. 4778 4 ~ „ 3221 1417 13,325
The profits are less than they were last year, and at a
lower rate than for the 14 months to February, 1900.
Also, the amount it has been considered necessary to
provide for contingencies is much larger, and though the
dividend remains at a moderate 4 per cent., a very small
addition has been made to the reserves. All this is sug-
gestive of bad times in Queensland. The City and
Suburban has £77,275 of paid-up capital, so the share-
holders’ funds total £90,600. Also, it owes £74,551 to
depositors, and this money seems to cost it over 4 per
cent. —at least, the interest paid for the year was £3137.
It appears very doubtful if it pays to take deposits at
these interest rates. The co. has hardly any fore-
closed property (only £5OO worth), which is a good
sign. It has £13,168'0f fixed bank deposits, and £3580
cash, which is a strong reserve. But it is hardly likely
to get more than 3£ per cent, from the bank, yet
it is probably necessary to hold this money against the
deposits, and this again makes it doubtful if the deposit
business pays. The Oity and Suburban is certainly a
well-managed institution, but times are not good in
Brisbane; Queensland never experienced that revival
after the troubles of 1893 that some better-governed
States did ; and it is difficult to make large profits there
at present.
• * * •
The Bankers’ Magazine publishes an article
signed “Henry G. Turner” on the subject of a State
Bank. The writer says off-hand that a State Bank is “ a
threadbare heresy,” a “ corpse,” a “ fad,” and so on, and
he announces that State Banking is condemned by the
mere personality of its advocates, such as “James
Mirams, who left a ghastly record of his financial capacity
in the Premier Building Society and Savings Bank, and
Francis Longmore, whose brilliant handling of other
people’s money may be seen in the liquidators’ results of
the Australasian Coal 00. under his management.” This
is very beautiful. Suppose the anti-State Bank view were
judged in like fashion by the financial capacity of one
Henry G. Turner, under whose management a certain big
bank lost (1) its reserves of £BOO,OOO ; (2) its entire paid-
up capital of £1,200,000 ; (3) about £1,200,000 of additional
capital afterwards paid up ; (4) about £1,100,000 which has
to.be provided for out of earnings? Or suppose it were
judged by the private banking doings of the Matthew
Davies and James Munro banks, and by all the other wrecks!
Henry G. Turner talks as affably about the impossibility
—the utter impossibility—of State Banking as if such
institutions as the National Bank of Sweden, the
Bank of Norway, the State-managed (though not
State-owned) 8.N.Z., and the multitude of State
Land Banks scattered all over Europe and in Aus-
tralasia had never been heard of. Also, he states
in an airy way that “ all experience is against ” a State
paper currency—such as the British Government has in
India, and such as exists in Canada, Queensland, and
many other places. And the idea of making the banks
hold a portion of their cash reserves in State notes, as
Canada has done for many years without anything going
wrong, is brushed aside with the statement: “Of course
such an outrageous proposal could not be carried out 1 ”
To come across a name like “ Henry G. Turner” —a name
which suggests most dreary recollections of the utter
failure of the private banking system —at the foot of
this haughty mass of rot is very touching.
* * • *
The Federal Building, Land and Investment
Society (Brisbane) comes nearer to making ends meet this
year than it has done for a long while, and it seems pos-
sible that, in another year or so, it will be making profits
again, unless some new streak of misfortune comes its
way. For a number of years, the reserves have onty been
kept from disappearing altogether by writing off capital
and forfeiting shares for non-payment of calls, and carry-
ing the amounts thus provided to reserves. Since 1894,
the course of events has been somewhat as follows :
Outgoings.
Loss on Loss on Total
business, property. loss. ***
r r J reserves, reserves.
1895 .. £2141 .. £715 .. £2856 ..
1896 .. 2154 ..58,482 .. 60,636 ..£68,272 ..
1897 .. 1450 .. 604 .. 2054 ..
1898 .. 1289 .. 1520 .. 2809 .. 250 ..
1899 .. 1431 .. 867 .. 2298 .. 366 ..
1900 .. 897 .. 640 .. 1437 .. 456 .. £14,453
1901 .. 649 .. 153 .. 802 .. 1830 .. 15,481
1902 .. 196 .. 565 .. 761 .. 484 .. 15,204
It is hardly worth attempting to show what the reserve
stood at prior to 1900, for the slipshod book-keeping of
those earlier years makes it practically impossible to
account for things. The accounts do not show the exact
amount of capital wiped out at the great cleaning up of
1896, nor the exact amount written off the assets; the
figures shown above are merely an approximation dug
out of an obscure balance-sheet. After that event the
reserve-fund stood at £20,000. Next year £2477 was
written off it, and this, by the amazing arithmetic of the
Federal Building, Land and Investment Society of Bris-
bane, reduced it to £lB,OOO (not to £17,523 as might be
supposed). In 1898, another £1206 was written off,
reducing the reserve from £lB,OOO to £16,819 (not to
£16,794, as seems reasonable). In 1899, things were
understandable enough, but in 1900 the reserve stood at
£15,000, and then £1648 was written off, which purported
to reduce it to £13,500 (instead of £13,352, as might be
supposed). After that the ordinary rules of arithmetic
prevailed again. Presumably the differences shown
above came out of some inner reserves, but these things
disturb the consecutiveness of the anecdote none the
less.
In 1895 the Federal Building, Land and Invest-
ment Society had a paid-up capital of £107,186. After
some calling up of new capital, and much writing off, it
has now £40,034, so the biggest part of the institution has
disappeared. The co. owes £31,903 to depositors and
£7545 on bank overdraft—total £39,448. The interest bill
for the year was £2107, so this money cost nearly £5 7s.
per cent, all round. The investments—largely foreclosed
mortgages—yielded, after deduction of rates, insurance
and repairs, less than 3 per cent. There is no certain
remedy for a co. which has raised a lot of money at £5 7s.
per cent, and invested it at less than 3 per cent, except to
persuade its shareholders to put up enough new capital to
pay off the liabilities.
• * • •
The fact that the Citizens’ Life Assurance Co.
of Sydney has put up its half-yearly dividend to 30 per
cent, per annum is a large essay on the blessings of the
proprietary life business—as conducted by this concern at
all events. By the constitution of the Citizens’ Co.
the shareholders can take for themselves, if the
writer remembers aright, one-fifth of the profits
of the ordinary branch. And the shareholders have
the sole right to decide what are profits. Last year,
for instance, £2OOO was taken out of the earnings of the
ordinary branch for dividends, yet there were no
profits left to provide a bonus for the policy-
holders. It was decided that it was necessary to
reduce the assumed interest rate from 3£ to 3
per cent., which operation swallowed up all the sur-
plus. Profits, so far as the policy-holders were con-
cerned, after this necessary expense was provided
for, were nil. The excuse the shareholders offer
for their existence is that they strengthen the co. and
provide additional security—that because they have
put £20,000 into the business, and have taken about
£27,000 out of the business in dividends, and will pro-
bably take £250,000 or more out of it as dividends in
future years, therefore the co. is necessarily stronger than
a mutual institution which hasn’t this drain on it. It isn’t
a view of the case that is calculated to commend itself to
anybody except a shareholder. The dividend isn’t all
loss, so far as the industrial department is concerned, but
so far as concerns the ordinary branch it is total loss.
Last year the investment of the £20,000 paid-up capital
yielded about £BOO interest, which was all credited to the
industrial branch, and when the £2OOO dividend was
taken out of that branch it was £l2OO to the bad on the
transaction. The ordinary branch had no such redeeming
feature ; the £2OOO taken out of it for dividend made it
just £2OOO worse off than if there had been no share-
holders at all.
Though dividends are supposed to come out of
profits only, yet prior to 1891 the Citizens’ shareholders
voted themselves £7OOO in dividends, and then round
that the business showed a loss instead of a, profit. The
loss was turned into a profit on paper by adding £24,310
to the value put on the co.’s buildings. This is an old
story, but it is interesting as showing how shareholders
may get there when they are the sole judges of what is
the right thing to do and have the sole management,
while the policyholders provide most of the money.
• * * *
“ Subscriber of Bulletin ”: Not to speak with
undue severity, the concern you mention is probably the
worst fraud of its kind this side of the line, and its pro-
moters should be in gaol for false pretences.
• * » *
“T.A.A.” : (1) But the A.M.P.’s rates are not
higher except in one or two cases. In nine items out of
ten the small office you mention charges more than the
A.M.P. (2) Last notice was published in Bulletin of
24th August, 1901.
* * * *
Some recent figures regarding the Wickham and
Bullock Island Coal Co. (Newcastle district, N.S.W.)
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
March, 1900 .. £l5ll
Sept, 1900 .. 13511 {orf " ZfSSi } 455
March, 1901.. ;; =
sept, 1901.. eoiilK:: 1 ? ;; : 88}*TSr
Loss
March, 1902 .. 1661 Nil 225
The half-year just closed is the first in which the Wick-
ham and Bullock Island Coal Co. has not paid a dividend.
The co. has had a long and weary argument —now appar-
ently about finished—with the Government re a lease
which it applied for. It has heen doing dead work in
opening up 200 acres of coal-bearing country, not
trenched upon so far. Also, £lO6O has been paid as com-
pensation for subsidence. All these troubles and causes
of delay have made the half-year a bad one. Still the co.
can look back on the fact that it has paid nearly £120,000
dividends during the last 15 years, and there is no reason
to believe that its glory has utterly departed.
* * • •
Yet another cable tells of various fruit shipments
opening up rotten or specked. Generally the returns
are disappointing, but one fact stands out full of
encouragement : Grapes and pears have been landed
sound. If this can be done once it may—will yet—be
done always. The secret would be worth thousands.
Sound Australian grapes between March and June would
sell right through from Ceylon to Liverpool, and we have
a few million acres of land as good for grape-growing as
any in the world.
* • * •
Westralian rail-freights have been put up—-the
result, it is alleged, of mismanagement. So much poli-
tical capital is, however, made out of the State’s railways
that it is hard to tell what’s what. The Dept, still
alleges that its rates are lower than those of any Aus-
tralian system, except the S. Australian. But, then, so
they ought to be, because the bulk of the traffic is con-
centrated on a long, single, cheaply-worked line—to the
goldfields—just as the S. Aus. trade is concentrated on
the Barrier line. The enormous divs. of Silverton Tram
Co. show what profits that sort of traffic yields. To Kal-
goorlie, the new rate for machinery, in 5-ton lots, is £3
Bs. lid. per ton (old rate, £2 14s. 4id.) ; under 5-ton lots,
£6 11s. lOd. (£5 3s. 4d.). Foodstuffs have moved a trifle ;
but timber suffers most of all. The changes put an
unearned extra £15,000 a year into the Midland Railway
co.’s maw.
• • • *
B.H. Water Supply’s monopoly never looked in
more serious danger than at present. It is said positively
that all that stands between the Yanco Glen syndicate and
the carrying out of that scheme is the want of a title to
the site ; and Lands Minister Crick, in whose Dept, it is,
publicly announces that he favors the scheme and will
help it. The local council has so far opposed it, in the
hope of getting a Govt, scheme ; but, one after the other,
Ministers tell them that it is no good looking that way.
.* * * *
Calls in the hopeless North Central, in the
North, and on contributing in the South
(Broken Hill). The North and the ‘South say that,
their machinery being now complete, they will
not need any more calls. There has been no
recent change worth mentioning in any B.H. mine.
Another little collapse in the Junction just serves
as a reminder of the awful mess the mine was allowed to
get into. Prospecting results here are very fair. At
the half-yearly meeting of the Junction North there was
talk of shutting up till the metal-market mends. If the
directors would knock off drawing fees, and other
expenses of management (now excessively high) were cut
down to a trifle, that would be the best line to take.
There is talk of taking the Bonanza to England to float.
And the people who do things like that say they love the
dear Motherland 1
• • * •
Great Cobar Copper Syndicate, by a stand-and-
deliver policy, has forced the N.S.W. taxpayer to bear the
chief burden of supplying its mines with water during
the drought. If this were not done, the syndicate
threatened, the mines would be closed down, and Oobar
and Rix Greek beggared, and Lithgow’s prosperity seri-
ously prejudiced. The syndicate is extremely wealthy,
has made hundreds of thousands out of its property,
and could well afford to pay for its own water. But,
having the power to throw so many people idle, it used it
to coerce the State into granting a huge subsidy. As a
matter of public policy, it would have been better for
Premier See to have told the Oobar syndicate to do as
they pleased, even if the sacked workmen had to be
maintained out of the Treasury. If one big corporation
with a large wages-sheet can squeeze concessions in that
way out of the State, others will soon learn the trick, and
where will the game end ?
* • • *
Hillgrove Proprietary (N.S.W.)reported to have
struck a rich reef. It will have to be extra rich to make up
for the enormous cost of finding it. Expenditure to date
must run well into six figures. One-tenth of this would
have sufficed to prove the property had the original
managers been diplomatic enough to arrange with
Baker’s Greek co. to extend their levels beyond the
boundary.
• • • •
Eleanora (Hillgrove, N.S.W.) once more in
liquidation. Adelaide men must be heartily sick of this
disappointing show. Three sets of them have tried it.
They were all to be made princes out of its supposed
riches. If they are not paupers it is not the fault of the
mine.
V • • •
Woolcock reports successful concentrating work
at Ohesney Cobar mine. Some Sydney shareholders
were so overjoyed with the good news that they rushed
their shares on the market at 4Jd. Concentrating is but
the first stage, the second is smelting. Where is the ore
to be smelted at a profit—to the Ohesney Co.? Certainly
not at public works while the charge of 2s. 6d. per unit is
imposed for realisation.
• • • •
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) shareholders coolly told
by circular dated March 20, after shares had depreciated
over £5, that reason for slump is that lode has pinched
out and can’t be found in north drives of 6, 7 and 8 levels,
which “greatly cripples our anticipated ore reserves.”
This fact has been known to the management for months,
but kept secret till “ insiders” ratted. In fact, in latest
monthly report, issued just prior to this damning circular,
assays of said levels are said to range from 24 to 37dwt.,
and not one word is said of the lost lode ! More London
“ management ” !
♦ • » •
Shareholders of E. Murchison United (W.A.)
must feel intensely mortified to find that out of alleged
profits, £34,000 has been written off for depreciation and
£55,000 for development and equipment, leaving nothing
for divs. Co. has been six years odd in existence, ana
has distributed £60,000 in divs., but none during past 18
months. Capital was increased by £30,000 in Oct. last,
and recently the Wahroonga South lease, 7 miles off, was
palmed off on co. for £21,000 cash. Co. has also acquired
i the Donegal and Never-Can-Tell mines, and all three are
being connected with original property by tram-lines.
Tom Doyle, ex-mayor of Kanowna(W.A.) after
suffering financial reverses, reverted to mining on his old
lease, the Kanowna, and in three weeks he and his mate
Finney, broke out of a leader 4£ tons of quartz, which
yielded 4390 z. of gold, valued at £1,700.
* • * *
Last published Peak Hill (W.A.) return reads
21740 z. of gold from 8540 tons, an average of less than
Bdwts. The grade of ore now being mined is practically
unpayable. Two-thirds of the gold being won comes from
the accumulation of rich tailings. With the exhaustion
of these collapse is imminent. W.A.’B ex-Gov. recently
joined the board.
* • • •
Directors of Boulder Consols No. 1 (W.A.)
which holds 18 acres on the same belt as such dismal
failures as Kal. Mint, and Bank of England, talk of
“ getting machinery to treat profitably their large body
of stone worth about sdwts. per ton.” Impossible 1 Too
much dirt!
* • • •
Great Boulder (W.A.) is starting to open out at
the 1500 ft. level, while its main shaft will go on to the
1600 ft. The 1200 ft. level is proving the best in the sul-
phide zone, values ranging from 2 to 4oz. for a width of
Bft. The six Merton furnaces, capable of roasting 200
tons daily, are expected shortly. The existing Griffin
mills can treat the additional roasted ore. Experiments
have been made on the mine in desulphurising the ore in
a kiln, and the results are stated to be so satisfactory that
the process is to be tried on a larger scale.
* * * »
Ivanhoe (W.A.) declared a 3s. dividend, equiva-
lent to £30,000. The two main shafts are now on their
way to.the 700 and 800 ft. respectively. The middle lode,
where intersected at the 600 ft. level, averages 42dwts. for
7ft. 6in. Wilfley concentrators are being fitted to the old
60-head mill, and on their completion a closer extraction
is anticipated.
* * * *
Bayley’s (W.A.) on rich ore in a winze from the
330 ft. level on the South block. Full extent of discovery
not yet known, but probably it is only a patch. Develop-
ments are being pushed bn at 1000 ft. level, and bores
being put down at various points.
* • * *
Cosmopolitan (W.A.), after ruling at about 31s.
for months, suddenly slumped to 21s. This means a
depreciation of £200,000 in market valuation. Sinister
rumors regarding the mine have been rife for some time.
Bewick, Moreing and Co. recently withdrew from the
management.
* • * ¥
An entirely new body of very rich ore in the
Associated Northern (W.A.) is now being opened up by a
winze in a crosscut at a point 125 ft. west of the main
lode at the 400 ft. level, and in a rise from a crosscut at
the 500 ft. level. A diamond drill is operating from No. 7
level and will go out 750 ft. eastwards at a depressed
angle.
* * * *
Queensland Menzies (W.A.) has worked out the
rich ore above the 366 ft. level. The policy has been to
open only one level at a'time, and when that is worked
out a slump naturally ensues. The main shaft is only
down 420 ft., so that months must elapse before the next
level _ can be properly tackled. Owing to this policy
working costs range from 110 s. to 115 s. per ton.
» * * *
Great Fin gall Consols (W.A.) declared first div.
of 4s. on split shares. This represents a distribution of
£50,000, but the cash will not be available till June 16th.
* * * *
The gold from the Great Boulder Prop., which
for the first two years of the mine’s existence was worth
£4 2s. 6d. per ounce, is now worth only £3 3s. 9d., so
that it takes nearly 4oz. to produce the same result as 3oz.
formerly did. Which accounts for the falling off in divs. :
(Continued on pp. 21 and 80.)


DfiVID JONES COMPANY
HIGH-CLASS HATTERS
SPECIA X- Li 11ST 33.
Mens’ and
Youths’
Fine Grade
STRAW
rsi-
Price 3/9
Hatters*
Finish
Wide and
Double Brim
Ladies’ and Gent’s Sailor Ha*s, 5/6.
ANY WIDTH OF BRIM MADE TO ORDER.
George and Barrack Streets, Sydney.
Eye COMFORT!
hfg
Is yours if you come here for
your "lasses. We’ll test your
eyes FREE, and advise glasses
ONLY when absolutely neces-
sary. n.b.— Rost Test sent
Free to any country address.
WOOD, THE
299
Ceorge-st.
OPTICIAN
Note ONLY Address—299 Georqe-st., Stone y
(Top of Hunter-st. in George-st.)
and Equitable Buildings, Eiizabeth-st., Melbourne
EVA BRAHAM,
LADIES’ HAIRDRESSER,
From H. P. Truefitt, 114 Old Bond Street, London,
Pupil of Dr. Gurney, M.D., L.R.0.P., L.R.0.5., Harley
Street, Cavendish Sq., London, W.
HAIR <Sc skin treated.
CONSULTATION GRATIS.
Pamphlet on the Art of Preserving: the Complexion,
Hair, Nails and Feet, POST FREE.
HENNA TINCTURE for staining grey hair.
~T ', Harmless and Effectual. In three
shades—Black, Brown, and Light Brown. 3s. per case.
Hair Stained from 21s.
LADIES ORNAMENTAL HAIR made up in all Newest
Styles. Prices Moderate.
Removal of Superfluous Hair and Chiropody by an Expert.
EVA BRAHAM,
15 First Floor, Equitable Buildings,
Ceorge Street, Sydney, NEAR G. P.O.
SOCIETY
Out of the 141 counties of N.S. Wales
there are 45 which, at date of last census, did
not contain a single divorced person. There are
58 which did not contain a divorced man, and 79
which did not contain a divorced woman. There
are only nine comities which contained more than
10 divorced people. There were 1400 divorced
persons altogether, and the county of Cumber-
land, with less than half the population of the
State, contained 927 of them. There was one
county which did not contain a single widow or
widower. In 49 counties population decreased
between 1891 and 1901; one county showed exactly
the same population in each year ; 91 showed an
increase. The counties of diminishing population
cover about half the area of the State. They are
not all in the dry West, either—no less than eight
of them lie east of the town of Orange ; three are
between the Sydney-Brisbane railway and the
coast, and you can fire a gun into one of them
from the county of Cumberland if you stand at
the north-west corner of it. For the whole State
the increase of population between 1891 and 1901
was 222,612, and of this 122,300, or much more
than half, was in the county of Cumberland—
where the bloated city of Sydney is.
P.M.G. Drake doesn’t rush things in his
dept, as regards appointments and promotions,
especially m Q., where vacancies are filled
“ temporarily ” by men who are made to do the
work but have no hope finally of getting the per-
manent billets. One office has been vacant since
last July and several for more than six months.
“ Bards of a feather flock
together ! ” to do Victor
Daley's send-off j ustice.
And there are others!
WHEN GOVERNOR RAWS ON COMES.
LITTLE BOY AT MANLY: “Say, Gov., what do
you think of Our Beautiful Hoardings?”
The Fijian constabulary, whom Premier
See addressed in Sydney, the other day, on their
way to the Coronation ceremonies, come from a
race that ate the first Australians who attempted
to settle in their country. Sydney in later years
gave them a mayor (one Moi’ey) and a chief-justice
(St. Julien, once law-reporter of S.M. Herald),
and when Hercules Robinson took the country
over, his henchman, Attorney-General Innes,
afterwards a Supreme Court Judge of N.S.W.,
received a title, a royal gift which kept the
recipient in a loyal snuffle all the rest of his life.
There is a sad falling-off in the glamor that
hedges Australian State Governors nowadays.
Poor unassuming Vic. Gov. Clarke, who has been
given a house to live in out Malvern way, recently
found that his garden had been invi&ied by strange
cows, which had disrespectfully eaten many cab-
bages and other vegetables, including a delectable
assortment of rose bushes and chrysanthemums,
ndt to speak of some incidental washing which
they found hanging on a convenient clothes-line.
And after he had finished shooing the disloyal and
socialistic animals off his flower beds, with the aid
of a loose paling taken from the back fence, Gov.
Clarke delivered himself of some mild objurgations
at the expense of the local police, who have so
little feeling for an Imperial potentate in distress
that they actually refused to walk round to
“ Govment’ouse ” at midnight and see that the
gates were closed and the window fastenings
secure. King Edward’s rep. may, therefore, be
seen any night prowling round his residence with
a lantern and a large stick to make certain that
everything is secure ere he retires to sleep the
troubled sleep of the common suburban house-
holder. Even Madden, W. A.X., used to be strictly
guarded by armed sentries, who demanded a pass-
word from every person coming on the scene at
night, and bayoneted him off the premises if he
couldn’t find the missing idiom in three guesses.
But such luxuries are not for the diminished
Clarke.
* * * *
Two of the N.S.W. Public Service Com-
missioners approach the end of their term of
office. Mr. Delohery, the last appointed, has
over five years yet to run, but Messrs. Wilson and
Barling must be re-appointed very shortly. The
hope that the last-named gentleman will disappear
from the Board is again revived in the ranks of
the service, wherein the name of “Barling ” is as
a red rag to a bull. There have been so many
false alarms about “Joe’s” retirement that the
service won’t believe he has gone until they see
the Gazette with it in. Then they will unani-
mously frame it.
* * • *
There lately appeared in a Melbourne
court a poor afflicted woman whose hair had turned
white in a single night because her husband—the
brute !—refused to allow her to go to a dance.
Yic. Judge a’Beckett did a shrewd, thing
in dealing with the jury
that was trying young
man Quigley, at
Ballarat, for
capital as-
sault. The
crime was
clearly
proved
and could
not be ex-
tenuated,
but the
disinclina-
tion of
juries to
hang any-
one made
it doubtful
whether a
conviction
would be obtained.
Recognising this,
the defending
barrister told
the jury to re-
member that
prisoner was
on trial for his
life, and that,
if found guilty,
he should and
would be hanged.
Whereupon the
judge inter-
posed, told the
jury that if the
man were
found guilty
there would be
no probability
of a death-
sentence being
carried out;
and, with this
practical com-
promise in view,
the verdict of
guilty was speedily
arrived at. Sentence
of death was then
merely recorded, the judge
assuring prisoner that it would not be car-
ried out. Quigley, who had been brute enough
to attack a strange and unwilling girl on the lonely
road, proved his own lack of courage by breaking
down and sobbing bitterly in the dock. At
another recent trial, which it would be unfair to
prisoner to indicate, the jury disagreed after the
judge had told them that he could not answer for
the effects of a recommendation to mercy. All of
which points to the advisability of permitting
juries to fix an accused’s degree of culpability.
The. principle is already acknowledged in pre-
senting a man on counts of both murder and
manslaughter. All that is necessary is its ampli-
fication.
A QUESTION OF ABILITY.
“Yes, I got the billet for Jack all right. The Premier, Sir James, teas so kind.”
“ Oh, Tm so glad for your sake; and I do hope he will keep it.”
“ Well, do you know, Sir James said he’d been doubtful about that, but he
decided that a man has generally got enough ability to keep a billet that
his wife has enough ability to get for him. I don’t quite know what he
meant, but I think it’s very encouraging. Don’t you?”
Sydney art students, after much irresolu-
tion, have finally decided to petition Govt, to
throw the Society of Artists and the Art Society
out of the top-storey windows of their respective
chambers. The students contend that the art
classes, as at present constituted, fail to give
decent instruction for the fees charged, and that
they have no reasonable chance of becoming even
decently proficient within the next century or so.
Therefore, they pray that the State subsidy be
withheld from the two societies, and that a
National Art School be established on similar
lines to that of Melbourne. The Melbourne
student can study all day, and receive a cour e of
anatomy lectures, for one-fourth the fees charged
by . the Sydney instructors. Now, the rival
societies, fearing that the “young party” may
defeat the ends of true art, ” are hastening to
amalgamate, and reach for a joint subsidy, before
the pupils, under the influence of the Melbourne
“degenerates,” who have come among them, get
their way.
* * * *
That the two Sydney rival art societies
will unite, under the Minister’s threat, there can
be no doubt. They will marry not because they
love one another, but for cold cash—as in the’case
of many another society wedding. The present
obstacle consists in the fact that the Society of
Artists, which is much inferior in point of numbers,
claims equal representation on the joint board
with its more numerous rival.
« * • *
N.S.W. Premier See, shocked by “recent
tragedies,” says “there is far too much license
allowed to shopkeepers in disposing of revolvers.”
Why not make the carrying or owning of firearms
penal without a (say, £1) license, payable yearly ?
It would be a legitimate and productive source of
revenue, and would probably lessen the death-rate
somewhat.
* • • •
Several Sydney gun-shops sell to young-
sters at 2s. 6d. a badly-made pea-pistol, which
soon goes out of order. The cartridges cost Is.
per 100, and t’other day a small boy shot his
companion dead with one of these weapons. Why
should tradesmen be allowed to sell firearms to
mere children ?
* * * *
A Melbourne tenor, who went to one of
the visiting Jap. warships, sang for the yellow
mannikins, and gave them the “Death of
Nelson. They roared themselves hoarse with
delight, and made him do them some more
Nelson. A pert middy explained that the one-
eyed admiral was a sort of godhead of the Jap.
navy, and Braham’s pro-British shriek was their
boss battle-hymn. If ever the new white-and-
yellow alliance is broken up, it will be because
the Oriental monkey-man has demanded the open
door of Bull’s cherished traditions and asserted a
claim for the partition of the islander’s national
sentiment.
* ♦ • *
Announced in the Australian papers that
some Jap officers are about to be court-martialled
for looting while on service in China. Most
members of our own returned Chinese contingent
brought back enough goods to stock an Oriental
shop, filched from palaces or obtained by desecrat-
ing temples. Much of the loot lias been more or
less publicly exhibited. Are they to be court-
martialled ?
Fremantle
J'tnatie asy l um
(W A.) seems
t 0 be a first-
rate place to
80 mad in.
-the chief dor-
mitory ward
is T-shaped, so
that the one
attendant can-
°t possibly
keep all his
charges under
observation.
-then, as it is
thought that
from 26 to 30
insane men
might some
evening prove
too much for
the one more
or less sane
man, provision
is thoughtfnfiy
ma d ? for
allowing him
to make tracks
for healthier
parts by re-
moving the
doorlocks. Of
course, this
simple ar-
rangement
allows the
patients to
make tracks
too; and if
the solitary at-
tendant should
happen to be
engaged in one
arm of the
room, the
patients in the
others can get
away far
enough to do
themselves or
somebody else
an injury.
Moreover, on
a recent night,
when a pa-
tient, well-
known to have
suicidal ten-
dencies, did
wander out
and hang him-
self, the soli-
tary attendant had been continuously on duty for
17 hours ! J
* * • «
Referring to the rush of applicants for
places m last N.S.W. contingent, S.M. Herald
said :
The love of fight, however moralists may deplore the
fact, is inherent in the human kind, and when we add to
this the craving for adventure, the desire to escape from
the humdrum round of dailv existence, which is so
strongly in evidence, we are able to see in part why men
are eager to proceed to South Africa, or to any" other
similar field of enterprise.
Later it was cabled that Prof. Wood, of Sydney,
in an article in Manchester Guardian, stated
that most of the men volunteered from “ sheer
love of adventure and a desire to escape from the
monotony of bush life.” Then the Herald, in a
leading article, snorted thus :
Will the friends of those who died in the defence of the
liberty of British citizens be prepared to admit that these
men fought and died merely for sheer love of adventure,
or from a desire to escape the monotony of hush life ?
... It is time for notice to be taken of his action.
Poor doddering Herald ! Jingoes should have
good memories.
• * * *
The Inverell(N.S. W.)aldermen considered
the anti-war petition “an insult to the town,”
and refused to receive it, yet 250 of the residents
further “insulted the town” by signing it! When
will aldermen realise that they as little represent
the public opinion as they do the intelligence of
the community ?
* * *
Gov.-Gen. Hopetoun, who has developed
a lamentable tendency to suggest things, is
responsible for the proposed “Coronation Ser-
vice,” . which will happen (D.V.) at Melbourne
Exhibition Building on the day when King Ned
covers his baldness with the British Crown.
Hopetoun’s ideas are to be knocked into shape by
a committee of clergy ; but, meanwhile, the tall,
slim gentleman is suspected of an earnest desire
to adopt some sort of holy vice-regal orders for
the occasion,. and play the “star” part from a
pulpit. This is the result of his last year’s appear-
ances, first in Sydney, when he declared the
Commonwealth open, and afterwards in Mel-
bourne, where he largely assisted his august
guest, the Little Dook, to inaugurate the Federal
Parliament. Pomps and circumstances Lave
given Hopey the itch for Imperialistic mumming.
He begins to consider himself a Heaven-born
actor, and lie deplores his lack of stummick as a
great histrionical misfortune.
• * * »
The strength of N.S.W. detective force
has been sadly impaired by the promotion of
front-rankers Roche and Goulder to officerships in
the uniformed branch of the police. It would
seem to be a task quite beyond the intelligence of
the authorities to devise means whereby expert
detectives may receive their merited promotion
and still be retained in the branch in which they
will be of most service to the community. The
efficiency of the detective force cannot but suffer
when men who show real ability are promoted to
other positions.


SILVER STAR STARCH
THE BEST IN THE WORLD,
d.c.l:
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
h
at ~oU SNE Ss . tIVER
N' anP Troubles.
.-Chief-Justice Griffith, President of the
Brisbane University Extension Scheme, moans
about the apathy of the authorities as regards
funds, etc. Well, Sam when in power didn’t
“buck up” to any extent in this matter. Also,
there are in the dry back-blocks of thirsty Queens-
land hundreds of youngsters who are much more
in want of the rudiments of education than the
son of the Brisbane importer is of superior know-
ledge about Pericles and Marius and Rameses the
Two. Seeing that Philp and Go. purpose (in a
spasm of economy) to cut down the bush teachers,
Samuel, like his historical namesake, seems to
be lifting his voice in the wilderness to no purpose.
It' wasn’t Samuel who lifted his voice in the
wilderness but the above remark is put in on
general principles.
* • • *
Girl labor, it is reported, has lately in-
vaded even the brickyards in N.S.W. —in fact
the cheap boy and the cheap girl are in evidence
everywhere. The advt. for a “feed-boy” fora
pointing machine (because he was cheaper than a
man) has given place, in many cases, to the advt.
for a “feed girl,” who is even cheaper than a
boy. As for the poor little shop-serving or
dressmaking or millinery girl who is taken on for
six months without pay “to learn the business,”
and then sacked, to be replaced by another girl
of th same kind, there have alwaysbeen many
hundreds of her in Sydney. The minimum-wage
law depressed this swindle in Melbourne, but
even there the remedy was only a partial one at
best.
m • ♦ *
Sydney chess-players are trying to arrange
a Chess Congress for Easter, 1903, with indifferent
prospects of raising the £3OO said to be required.
Sydney’s leading chess-players are queer fish,
who mostly are engaged in announcing their “ re-
tirements ” and resignations from the game. The
chess championship is at present disclaimed by
three of them, and the congress is to be held to
decide on a brand new champion. Some mis-
guided and enthusiastic persons wanted to hold a
big affair and tempt players outside Australia,
but as this would not suit the local players the
contest is to be limited to Australia and Maori-
land. "
* * * *
Cabled that the publication of a message
announcing that the Commonwealth agrees to
penny postage to Australia from all parts of the
world, is creating much confusion in England.
One result will, no doubt, be the bombarding of
Australian citizens per the next few mails with
all sorts of cadging letters of the Bamardo and
other brands with 2d. or 3d. fine to pay on each-
So, beware what English letters you take delivery
of !
* * * *
E. F. Knight, the journalist who came
out here on the Dook o’ York job, has been
telling the Morning Post that “in England
alone men know how to raise the true British
cheer. In the colonies they have lost the art, and
with all their demonstrative loyalty Australians
and Canadians were unable to express their feel-
ing in the traditional way of the old country.”
“ Bobrid ” : Recently met
an alleged man with a petition
setting forth that he was a fit
and proper person for a J.P.-
ship. Asked me to sign, and I
did, cheerfully. Anyone who
reaches that depth of degradation
deserves a C.M.G.-ship at least.
At last Sydney Divorce sittings a pre-
possessing young lady sought a divorce from her
husband on the ground of desertion. When they
first met she was employed as governess at a
leading hotel. Unfortunately, a little stranger
appeared on the scene long before the tying of the
nuptial knot, and she suggested to the child’s
father that, if he would marry her and give her a
good name, she would not trouble him any more.
“We will not live together afterwards—l can
earn enough for .myself and child.” On this
understanding they''married, ,and after the cere-
mony he returned to his mother’s house, while she
continued as governess. The Judge dismissed the
petition. If people, he said, were foolish enough
to marry in that fashion “for a good name,” they
must put up with the consequences.
* * * *
The North Adelaide wholesale poisoning
case is most mysterious. After a solid Sunday
evening supper, the whole household was taken
ill, servants included. The only exceptions were
the master of the house and one friend, who had
left one particular pudding alone. The coachman,
who had a good deal of it, was the only one who
died. Yet a preliminary analysis showed nothing
wrong with that pudding.
The vagaries of a mother and an alleged
father shook up Melbourne Appeal Court t’other
day. After sifting a mass of contradictions there is
precious little story left, but it seems that one
Wolfe invited a tender lamb, of 23, down from the
country to keep house for him. She kept house—
and now he declines to keep the subsequent baby.
The prospective mother invited the Wolfe afore-
said to marry her, but he said he was much too
old and desired her to capture a young man, when
he would buy and furnish her a house and himself
fill the usual billet of lodger. This the lady
actually attempted, accosting a perfect stranger in
the street one evening and casually informing him
“My uncle is going to give me a house if you
will marry me.” The surprised stranger took this
sudden proposal very kindly and said he would
consider it. He considered favorably—until he
found he was expected to take a ready-made family
as well as a wife. Then he repudiated the con-
tract. This was about as much as could be made
out of the lady’s version. Wolfe’s tale was
that he was fond of his housekeeper, but
not to the extent alleged. He had been
quite willing to marry her a few days before,
but didn’t feel that way just then. He had given
her money to buy a wedding-ring, and they had
once gone to a registry office to be “ put through ”
finally, but the registrar demanded three days’
notice, and by that time his resolution had
evaporated. He admitted having given her £lO a
few days back, also having promised to marry her
in July—his courage being, presumably, expected
to reacn the sticking-point about then. Also,
though he was inclined to marry the girl at certain
indefinite moments, he was still of opinion her
mother was more suitable for him. Further, he
said that when he first engaged the damsel as
housekeeper, he thought of marrying her “ after
twelve months’ trial,” though he quite failed to
reconcile this statement with the promise to fur-
nish the house for the stranger. As there was no
direct corroboration of the girl’s tale the old
gentleman won his case, but further proceedings
are to be allowed should the necessary evidence
be obtained. Take it all round it was, as the
Judge said, a most unsatisfactory case, and seems
to snow that some men get married much as they
get shaved.
* * * •
Every allegedly philanthropic institution
conducted by private persons should be regularly
inspected by State officials. No committee should
be allowed to solicit contributions from the public
without Govt, sanction, and that sanction should
only be given in return for full and periodic
inspection. In lots of “Homes” inmates are
worked for rates of remuneration that would dis-
grace outside sweaters.
A PROFESSIONAL.
BROWN : “I met a woman this morning who to’d
me she had witnessed fifty suicides in one
year.”
SMITH (incredulously): “ What is she—a nurse?”
B ROWN: “ No, a liar.”
A few days ago a young, unmarried
missioner, who was leaving for New Britain, was
presented by her friends, at Wangaratta (Victoria),
with a cruet and pickle jar, on her departure.
A bundle of toothpicks, and a supply of condi-
ments, would have given a finish to the gift from
a New Britain native’s point of taste.
ONE OF MANY AT THE CONCERT.
“And what did you think of Amy Castles’
sinying ?”
“ Oh, I didn’t notice the singing much. But we
had lovely seats. Everyone could see us.”
The Victor Daley benefit Smoke Night at
the Victorian Artists’ Society (Melb.) was a
cheerful happening, though few artists were
present. Dyson was asked to speak, but declined ;
so president Paterson, before taking round the
hat, said: “It’s no the time o’ day tae alloo
brither airtists to be neglected by an awfu’ foolish
public, but we mun support oor ain folk. Vera
offen real guid airt has sma’ commercial value,
but we maun jist buckle tae, an’ cram it doon
people’s throats whether they like it or no. My
ain pictures are gitting popalar, jist because I tell
folks they’re verra fine airt. They dinna inder-
stand them, but they like them a’ the better for
that. Many folks dinna ken Victor, but we mun
jist mak’ ’em. I will noo tak’ roun’ the hat.”
The “brither airtists,” chiefly of the younger
school, responded well, and the artists, not the
hide-bound society, will hand over about £l5.
• • * *
The Melbourne detective force must have
felt pretty small recently, when £lOO worth of
watches and jewellery, mostly in a broken con-
dition, was picked off a suburban footpath. The
valuables, wrapped in a piece of old sheeting,
proved to be part of the proceeds of at least three
housebreakings. Seemingly the unlawful owner
had come into a fortune, or got converted at a
Simultaneous Mission by one of the low-comedian
evangels from Chicago. Anyway, he ironically
put the swag where a policeman might be expected
to find it, and along with the stolen goods lie
placed six mutilated skeleton keys, in token of his
determination to retire from a business that has
lost its one time element of excitement in Mel-
bourne. There are no invigorative risks attaching
to burglary in that city. The police never dis-
cover anything, except an imaginary “clue.”
Even the swag which had been lying all night at
the foot of a tree beside the footpath was fated to
escape capture by a policeman. It was handed
over to the authorities by a fruiterer.
* * * *
Sydney’s “ Royal Agricultural Society ”
has these advts. in one recent issue of a daily
paper :
AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY.
GRAND CORONATION BALL,
TOWN HALL.
T»OYAL AGRICULTURAL GROUND,
- n ' MOORE PARK.
CAMP of COMMONWEALTH HORSE and CORONA-
TION CORPS.
Admission—SlXPEN CE.
This society (of which Premier John See is presi-
dent) is given the care of a large recreation re-
serve, and a big annual subsidy so that it may en-
courage the breeding of pigs, horses and cattle,
and the growth of grain. It has fenced in its
park, annually pockets its grant, and never does
a shilling’s worth of practical work for the en-
couragement of Agriculture. Its annual show is a
farce—a display of grocers’ goods, drinks, horse-
jumping, spielers and barmaids chiefly—and the
society, year by year, gets nearer to being a
general caterer of more or less doubtful amuse-
ments to the public. “A grand Coronation
ball! ” What on earth has that to do with im-
proving the breed of pigs—four-legged ones, any-
how? And a show of swaddies, admission six-
pence ! What will that do for farming ? N.S.W.
Parliament should take the first opportunity to
wipe this precious society off the list of Govern-
ment beneficiaries.
A Yic. politician,
while sporting in the sea
down Corner Inlet way,
heard a tremendous bump
and wondered at its
cause. Then the ap-
proach of a boating party
drove him ashore, and
the sight of a mixed
picnic coming down the
cliff sent him in fierce
quest of his clothes. The
bump was explained, and
he realised with cold
horror that a mass of
rock had fallen from the
face of the cliff and
buried his raiment. The
statesman danced out on
thesands, signal-
ling frantically
to the boating
party, and the
boat suddenly
bloomed into a
mass of umbrel-
las as it was put
about. He turned
to the mixed
picnic, gesticu-
lating like an
idiot, and the
mixed picnic pre-
cipitately fled
from view. The
naked politician then set to work to
burrow for his pants, and was claw-
ing up barrels of sand like an excited
tyke, when a deputation of males,
armed with sticks, came along from the
picnic to interview him. The nude orator had
explained matters to the satisfaction of this crowd
when another deputation, representing the male
strength of the boating party, came clamoring for
his blood, and he had to address one more public
meeting and give an account of his shirtlessness.
With assistance, he then disinterred his trousers,
and a picnicker lent him a coat, and he went home.
• * * *
“T.D.”: Came into Melbourne with a
trainload of female worshippers on Sunday night,
all bound for Geil and Torrey’s flare-up. Every
woman in mine and adjoining two compartments
(as far as I could hear) repudiated the gospel
according to the ’cute Yankee visitors, pronounc-
ingit shriekyand alittlebit blasphemous—but they
were all keen on getting along to hear the blas-
phemy in preference to the droning sopdfifics of
their meek suburban pastors. Therein lies the
success of “ simultaneous ” and other “missions”
—church-going females have the same yearning to
escape temporarily from the oratorical embraces
of their spiritual guides-in-ordinary as the average
wife has, at one time or another, to fly from her
domesticated, humdrum man and take up with a
picturesque rake, who will probably kick her off
his doorstep in three months. Anything for a
change!
* * * *
The Sydney outbreaks of plague in 1901
and 1902 should add much to the world’s know-
ledge of that disease, for not only have white
people been attacked in an unexampled fashion,
but the colored population has been almost
completely spared. This year some very in-
teresting observations have been made by scien-
tists, but the opportunity of 1900 was almost
wholly neglected. If that year every vital fact
about every patient attacked had been carefully
recorded, some good groundwork would have been
given for speculations as to how temperance,
cleanliness, the harboring of parasites, the
character, of one’s dwelling-house and other
personal habits affect the incidence of plague
* * * *
The Keniffs in Queensland will be caught
if the country rises, as Jimmy Governor and Co.
were caught in N.S.W. But if the country
is cowed by fear of “sympathisers’” ven-
geance, their course may be as that of the
Kellys in Victoria, and the end reached.
only through drink and a fluke. Anyhow, the
lesson of our recent experiences with outlaws is
that, lacking the help and even the initiation of
the bushmen, the police do not count for much.
The bush does not rise on the Keniffs—the police
say out of fear of the sympathisers. Sympathisers
never make themselves very conspicuous in the
taking of vengeance for any assistance given to
the police, and the great majority of out-back
folks know this well enough. But the fact stands,
and it is worthy of record, that the bush will
only rise in the cause of outraged womanhood and
childhood ; and not for blood-money in any case
whatever. Man-hunting and blood-avenging is
regarded as police business, and let the police
look to it. They have looked to it so badly in two
notorious Queensland cases of recent date that
distrust and disgust have grown up together ; and
the long brown men grin saturninely whenever the
chances _of detection and capture over a really
black crime are mentioned. The Northern police
are indeed held in contempt now, as they were
before held in detestation for their eager subser-
vience to every wish of the money-bags through-
out the shearers’ strike. And that is bad for the
country’s peace and the citizens’ security.
* • *
The usual scandalous row about a certain
very high Australian politician’s debts is just now
a little more violent than usual. It isn’t any
more scandalous than usual. That would be
impossible.
THE BRITISH GROVEL CHEER.
We were indeed a loyal crowd
One little year ago.
The Dook had come to “do us proud *
And yawn upon our show.
We decked the night with globes of light.
We lowered lots of beer
In Grovel’s name, but, all the same,
We lacked the “ British cheer.”
His Highness passed from place to place)
Amidst the thoughtful throng ;
We marked his figure and his face,
And saw he wasn’t strong,
Of course we “ ’oved ” our Future
King,
We held him very dear ;
But still the welkin didn’t ring
With quite a British cheer.
Perhaps we felt a pang of pain,
His Nibs was brief and slim ;
We knew that we—to make it plain—
Were not much “ struck ” on him.
And as we gazed, aghast, amazed,
When Royalty drew near,
Our eyebrows and our hats we raised—
But not a British cheer.
The arts of grovel pass away :
We lose ’em one by one ;
The Dook of a not-distant day
Will find that we have none.
Meanwhile, from one who ought to
know,
’Tis comforting to hear
That only England utters now
A hearty Grovel Cheer.


CLCcuoas/S <hc/&Z£&fh
9
PRICES.
I
Do you like Coffee?
Perfect, Pure,
Fragrant, Exhilarating Coffee
Then Try
H. SIDITH’S
Cold
Medal
Coffee Essence
THE VERY BEST
Australian Representatives:
SWIFT & COMPANY,
7 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY.
V
Mill,
V
All Drapers Everywhere.
$
§V RAINCOATS*
“eßAtfei ETTES”
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
A WOMAN'S LETTER.
Sydney, May 6, 1902.
My Dear Arini.—
Last Saturday was a crowded day. The Feast
of St. Barmaid was celebrated from early morning
till midnight. Sydney Turf Club had a race
meeting at Hand wick ; the Runaway Girl arrived
at the goal of the Theatre Royal; the tuneful
Newbury-Spadas were singing at Centenary Hall.
Concerning the Feast —a record collection of over
£4BOO was made, and two tons of coppers passed
through the bank, two £2O-notes were given by
two ambushed millionaires (or by mistake), four
£lO-notes and 35 single ones were donated. The
staff of the Bank of N.S.W. must be lineal
descendants of Job if they endure this Feast-day
without complaint, for until midnight they were
engaged in taking and counting the coin.
The average of beauty amongst the snapping-
turtles was not as high as formerly, but its loss
was more than compensated for by increased valor
and strategy. Most of the ladies who sat
round the collecting-tanks at the city centres
were fairly venerable, and did not run after
Chinamen, or stop cabs, or ogle stock-brokers,
corporation laborers or darkeys. They left these
things to the younger turtles, who, if they
employed a vulgar means, at least snapped to a
worthy end. Two men friends, after parting with
a pound’s worth of silver each during the fore-
noon, found, after their usual 10s. lunch, that they
were penniless ; so they chalked on their high hats
the legend “Bankrupt,” turned their pockets
inside-out and so started for shelter. Within the
first yard a box was rattled under their chins.
“Look at our hats and pockets,” they bleated;
“don’t you credit the evidence?” “Yes,”
snapped the turtle, “ but we shall not say ‘ no ’ to
a ring or a scarf pin, you are wearing both.”
Turtles who swarmed over the shipping in the
harbor left no tarpaulin unturned lest a cabin boy
and a penny should be hiding beneath. On one
day at least in the year the women of this State
shake off the tired feeling, and that’s on the Feast
of St. Barmaid.
There is considerable “recording” these*times.
“ Runaway Girl ” brought a record audience to
the Royal, and, to coin afresh phrase, “the house
presented a brilliant appearance.” Florence
Young, whose fine dimples threaten to merge into
two lines that will meet beneath her chin, got the
welcome that awaits the wanderer who returns to
entertain the welcomers. Grace Palotta, whose
graceful, Ashby-type “ best-I-ever-had ” portrait
adorned the programmes, ought to patent her
Flying Dutchman sunshade. It is a skeleton
brolly—its ribs trimmed with roses. Grace, by
the way, is staying with Dr. Faithfull’s family
whilst in Sydney. Blanche Wallace, a regular
Dana-Gibson girl, wears a white cloth frock,
trimmed with gold braid, and one of those George
Washington folded-tart hats in a shade of green
that sears your eyeballs. Carrie Moore —“ O,
flesh, flesh, how art thou fishified! ”—pain-
fully thin, but with undiminished vigor in song
and dance and repartee, has replaced the inky
wig of her Melbourne season with a golden crest,
to her great improvement. The “ Girl ” has run
so long in Melbourne that to a big section of the
audience it was no new thing, and its lively, light,
and empty music has been heard from string
bands, suburban orchestras, and organ-grinders.
A bevy of grey-clad convent girls playing at the
mild naughtiness of cigarette-smoking under such
glorious trees as only grow in stageland, the
lighted convent in the background, a lay brother,
the hue of whose toper’s nose outshines the cacti
on the walls—that is the opening picture, and the
fact that a lay brother could have no lawful busi-
ness within the convent grounds doesn’t matter.
Then come Italian seas and skies, and white
houses swooning under the yellow light, and
market places full of fruit, flowers, and vege-
tables ; singing peasants in picturesque rags and
beautifully-dressed English aristocracy, who never
take offence at the grotesque familiarity of jockeys
and maids. Everyone does that which is right
and jolly in his own eyes. Strange to say, it
appears just as right and jolly to the other fellow’s
eyes, but in a musical comedy,, all things are
possible.
I am asked by a political friend to put the
following mysterious question : Should an M.L.A.
who has, within the last twelve months, proposed
marriage to three widows, each the licensee of a
public-house, speak or vote on the licensing ques-
tion when next it comes up in Parliament ? Has
he not brought himself within the meaning of the
Act dealing with members’ interests ? If he claims
that those transactions are terminated, should he
not, to satisfy the meaning of the Act, be obliged
to give the House a solemn assurance that, at the
time of speaking or voting, he has not one or more
similar widows m his eye ?
The Bohemian night in connection with the
Victor Daley testimonial will fall on Thursday,
May 15. It will be a night of stars which will
move from their orbits in the leading theatres to
shine at the Town Hall for this occasion only.
The Gov.-General will be present. Messrs,
William Martin and W. J. Spruson are hon.
treasurers, and Mr. J. S. Ryan, hon. sec. Mrs.
James Salmon has taken Mrs. Bland Holt’s place
as hon. sec. of the ladies’ committee. The box
plan is at Nicholson’s.
Miss Daisy Ghamier’s musical career has been
prematurely shortened by a bridegroom. She was
back less than a year from her Continental study,
had given her maiden concert, and started on a
concert tour, when a man intervened and blocked
the route with a wedding-ring. She has married a
Mr. Frank Grove. Another pretty little artist—
one of the brush and palette this time —Miss
Florence Greaves, of “St. Helen’s,” Burwood, was
married last week to Mr. W. E. Mofflin.
Talking of marriages, Miss Ada Willoughby,
who is now appearing at the Palace, has married
Mr. George Sheldrick.
One of the military changes ordered by Gen.
Hutton is said to be the transfer of Lieut.-Col.
Stanley to Sydney side. The Colonel’s dapper
little figure is well known at Queenseliff, Sorrento,
and other seaside places round Port Phillip
Heads, over all of which he rules in
an almost vice-regal way. He is in charge
of Port Phillip fortifications, one of the
leading posts in Vie. Defence Force, and is
no end of a dandy. When time hangs heavy on
his hands, the visitors declare that the Colonel
goes in and changes his clothes, and that you can
tell the time by the size of the checks on his pants.
He starts with a large check at 10 a.m., and
steadily diminishes the size until 3 p.m. What
with bathing suits, bicycle suits, yachting suits,
and fishing suits, added to the above series of
“ mufti,” as well as his bewildering collection of
soldier toggery, the changing appearance of the
Colonel is a constant delight to the visitor lazing
away at Christmas or Easter. His absence will
be taken much to heart down Queenseliff way,
where the ladies (as one rather unfortunately put
it) “love to watch the dear Colonel changing his
clothes.”
If you are a star in this or that heaven you
drop m for most unexpected perks. A firm which
makes voice-jujubes and throat-lozenges, heard
that Amy Castles sucked their brand of glottis-
soother, and acknowledged the appreciation with
a cheque for twenty guineas. By the way, the
four Castles concerts in Sydney brought in over
£3OOO ; the four previous ones in Melbourne and
Bendigo, £2676. Third concert in Sydney drew a
record audience to the Town Hall, but Madame
Albani had a bigger paying house because her
prices were higher. Amy’s agreement was £3OOO
and expenses for the tour, but when Mr. William-
son saw what a booming success she was going to
be, he voluntarily gave her a percentage on each
house, so the original amount will be considerably
augmented.
Off the stage, Janet Waldorf sports a bright,
gipsy face, and a flashlight smile that has plenty
of playing room both in eyes and mouth. She has
Shakespeared successfully all the world over, and
gained a favorable hearing from the heathen
Chinee on the sorrows of Juliet and the woes of
Macbeth. The Jap is perhaps the most enthusi-
astic playgoer among Asiatic nations, and he and
John bring Shakespeare books with them to read
in duet with the actors. The Hindu also approves
of Shakespeare. It isn’t Hamlet the mystic that
he prefers, but Romeo the lover. The Hindu isn’t
allowed to have love scenes in real life—at least
not with the lady he intends to marry—and the
knowledge that there are countries where marriage
and love have some connection comes upon him
with a joyful shock. Once a Hindu of rank
approached Janet and told her how glad he was
that these dramas had penetrated to the country
of caste, as it would result in broadening men’s
minds and getting them to treat their daughters
better. Probably the gentleman who said this
would have been annoyed if his own daughter had
started Julietting; but even the desire of a parent
for reform in other parents is a step in the right
direction.
Sydney’s polar bear is dead. He was an animal
more valuable than all the 24 who succumbed to
the plague or other ills within the last fortnight.
Pneumonia was the cause of his death —the very
last complaint one would have expected an Arctic
animal to contract. He had got a chill after his
bath, so perhaps the water was a trifle warm, and
there were no ice-chunks with which to rub him-
self dry. He was a nice bear, with a good char-
acter, and can’t be replaced easily or cheaply.
The Zoo. mourns him, and trusts he has gone to a
heaven where he may hunt happily over ice-fields
and snow and gambol with the Aurora Borealis.
Reports from the Zoo. state that the lions are fed
upon horses which are killed upon the premises.
Now, when we see poor, played-out’bus-horses we
know they are going the way of the early Chris-
tian martyrs. After all, it is nobler to go to the
lions than to the dogs.
Mr. Frank Mahony, for long instructor to
N.S.W. Art Society, departs for Europe after
enduring the usual testimonial send-off night.
Mahony could draw horses as well as any
artist in this land or out of it; his steeds
matched those done in verse by Paterson
and Ogilvie. We have had in Australia
several people who could draw and paint “pretty ”
horses—curvetting masher mokes, with nicely-
ironed silk-hat skins ; but in the depiction of real
horses no Australian has ever matched Mahony,
who leaves behind several worthy memorials in
N.S.W. National Gallery.
Our distinguished recent visitor, Tsong Yao Lo,
Chinese Consul-General at Singapore, made use of
the Chinese custom of shaking hands with himself
when meeting his fellow-countrymen. Our mayors
and their wives might adopt the fashion with
benefit to the hitherto shaken and shook. It
would be a compliment to the Chinese, and they
would appreciate it better than the looting of the
Summer Palace. In a shop at Milson’s Point
there is a bronze Buddha, dated to correspond
with our 1520, which one of our men filched from
the S.P. along with three cups (heavy as metal) of
that ware whose art of making has long been lost.
The coloring, blue and red, on these cups is very
beautiful. The loot also includes a wonderfully-
carved cock —comb, wings and head finished with
microscopic detail. The legs are broken, for it
was wrenched off the Empress’s carriage—so the
proud robber says.
Someone has been asking if the “Ben Hur”
white camel was chummy with the orange-selling
boy who contracted plague and was the cause of
the closing of Her (late) Majesty’s theatre, and, if
so, did the long-necked chum bring the germs to
the Zoo. The Zoo people wearily promised to
furnish another report, instead of replying that he
couldn’t have carried it unless he had the disease.
J. C. Williamson’s people up at his mountain
home were considerably hurt at not getting
“White Dawn of the East,” or whatever his
humpiness’s name signifies in Hindustani, sent
up there. All the orphan live stock which have
been used in the plays are forwarded to J.C.W.’s
mountain “ it. The little pig which squeaked
in “Alice in Wonderland,” the pigeons that flew
around Wilson Barrett in the “ Manxman,” the
gold-fish that some mummer pretended to eat
nightly; they have all retired from the stage to
4000 ft. above sea-level.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“The promise of two vice-regal suites at Caul-
field races on Saturday made a success of the May
meeting. Society foregathered in all its strength
to strut its hour in the track of Excellency—the
Greater and the Less. An ardent sun spoilt
autumn effects rather, and hairy cloths set the
teeth on edge. The children of Solomon the Wise
took care to keep out of the burning radius, and
perched in the shade. So the lawn was deserted
save by the few who are so far back on the file as
to imagine this to be the place of promenade.
Sassiety has long since changed its patrol ground
to the bird-cage, where the atmosphere is thick
with smoke and strong racy epithets, and notices
at various corners warn lovely Woman to beware
of horse-play which is often carried on there to
the extent of fantastic high-kicking.
“The Countess failed of her word. So the
Gov-General, looking sadly out of gear, made
amends by hob-nobbing with the officials and
the Naicest in his particularly pleasant way. At
one time he went off for a conversational stroll
with the little button-nosed Guv’nor of the
State. The lawn was a nice lonely place for
talking secrets of office. Lord Hopetoun, miser-
ably thin, parchment-skinned, yet easy in walk
and manner despite everything, was a fine courtly
figure beside the robust and complacent Gov.
Clarke, whose superior and conceited airs sit
badly upon him. Another time_ the Guv’nor-
General hopped briskly from his pen to hail
Commandant Hutton, whom the wittiest of Mel-
bourne matrons declares to have the most in-
teresting set of wrinkles she has ever seen. And
they are indeed peculiar, especially those that go
to make fretwork about the iron mouth.
“ Minister Lyne, fresh from a gouty bed, lean-
ing on a stout stick, moved stiffly on his hinges,
and grunted with positive pain when the ladies
with him marched to the Stand, and he had to
bend his rheumaticky knees. All the women were
sorry for Sydney’s sick J umbo. They like him—
his heavy cannon-compliments take an honest
form—unlike C. C. Kingston’s highly-polished
ones, which never reach a flowing period without
a sardonic grin, very disconcerting to the
flattered one. The Long Ling— i.e., Philip Eysh
—helped his brother politician entertain the
accompanying fair ones. P.O.F. always looks
the male-costumier. You are inclined to follow
him to the fancy-button department after an
imaginary—“ What is your pleasure. Buttons?
Certainly. This way, madam ! ”
“ Anything like stunning clothes, at Caulfield,
was off. Sassiety rested, sartorially, on its oars.
Governor Clarke’s wife was in the familiar blue
silk garb of ancient build, high-shouldered fur,
and blue toque. The sonsie daughter repeated a
black and blue outfit, and a sweet seventeen white
feathered hat. Miss Clarke pairs off regularly
with Aide Browning. They have quiet jokes to
themselves. Their young, up-to-date eyes take in
the humorous situation of things that the elder
couple are blind to. Lady Hutton walked abroad the
Terrace and along the garden paths with a dignity
necessary to the straight-hanging, long, Newmar-
ket-tailed coat she wore. It was in biscuit tone,
same as the skirt. The gold of her vest matched
the gold of her hair. She left the friendly Clarkes
for a time to sit up with Toorak’s dames in the
committee’s enclosure. ‘Charming woman !’ com-
mented Toorakia as she sailed away like Tenny-
son’s stately ship to the V.K. haven on the stand.
Miss Muriel Miller, in dainty turquoise blue,
walked her bashful Jiancd over the course. This
Mr. Currie is a shy, stumpy young man more used
to the ways of the country station than ’lgh
Sassiety.
“ A bridal couple were among the most observed
at Caulfield—Mr. and Mrs. J. Essington King
(nde Shirley Nicholson). Their youth—the bride
looks 16, and the ’groom a few years her senior—
was the occasion of general comment. Besides
being young, Mrs. E. King boasts a regular baby’s
face—colorless, cherub-mouthed, and extremely
winsome. She wore a grey outfit, and a Corona-
tion-red hat, crowned and bordered with brilliant
French flowers. The pair are bound for the West
this week, where young King is prospering.
“Guv’ment House the Greater took its de-
parture suddenly, silently, surprisingly at three
o’clock. Mrs. Corbet, all in black, with one of
the new beaver waving-rinr hats topped with
feathers, looked reluctant to go. She is of the
turf, turfy. Little Lord Hope, dressed to the
forelock of time and fashion, swaggered in his
father’s footsteps loftily. The Countess, cold to
this eager, smart world, spoils that youngest Hope
of hers. He is more lordly than the lordliest. He
commands the staff, and has Wally and Duff and
all running to his whistle.
“At the opening of the Gentlewomen’s Aid
Fair (April 30), the showiest siren was the hand-
some Miss Muriel Williams, who certainly would
be the belle of Melbourne were her methods just a
shade less stagey. A full-sized beauty, one may
be pardoned for remarking, has no need to thus
advertise. A military identity tumbled in badly
at that fair. Soon as he came in he asked the
Beauty’s mother, ‘Who’s the girl in the hat?’
Later, of course, he protested that he’d meant to
say, ‘ Who’s the beautiful girl in the hat ? ’ It was
a plumed, black hat, worn askew, and mounted
on a fatted coiffure, round the base of which
coiled a plump, plaited snake, 4 la Nellie
Stewart, before she took to the ‘old
Byzantine ’ hair-style. Otherwise, Miss Wil-
liams was plumed in white; her frilled train
sweeping behind, while her handsome neck, its
nape shaded by a big queue bow of black velvet,
was garnished with a string of pearls. Her little
sister, a beauty of the future, wearing white serge
reefer and skirt with tan shoes and hose, lugged
round the presentation bouquet, till gubernatorial
Lady Clarke (three people of that name nowadays)
arrived to claim it. Her Ex.’s becoming gown
was brightish blue, strapped with bands of black-
braided white cloth and sprinkled sparsely with
blue-enamelled gold buttons. The Clarkes,
financially, are small fry, compared with Gover-
nors we’ve had, but they pay for their bazaar
purchases, which is more than can be said for
some previous pursy proconsular personages.
“Aide Browning skipped in the footprints of
his chieftainess round the stalls, handing out the
bawbees for the bootees, comforters and shawls
that the lady purchased. Stall-holders, preserving
conservative views of dignified Governors’ wives,
began timidly tendering their wares; bub at the
ingratiating overtures of the V.R. visitor they
chummed up considerably.
“ At the stalls, amateur helpers plaintively con-
fessed they didn’t know the price of such vulgar
things as pork-chops, for instance, and invited
customers to name their own terms. Ultimately,
they went for 7d. per lb., dirt-cheap, don’cher
know! -
“Gov. Clarke’s wife has uCtered a complaint.
She is weary of the eternal journeys to and from
Malvern. The round of duties necessitates very
often two trips to town —sometimes three —and
when at last home and midnight are reached, she
tells her friends she is too tired out —too ‘ nervey ’
to sleep. Besides, where one pair of horses had
at first been considered all the quadruped service
required at ‘ Stonington,’ now another pair seems
absolutely necessary, and an additional coachman
will have to be drafted in. Poor Lady Silver-
locks ! The extra pair of gee-gees and the coach-
man will not help to cure her insomnia.
“Of all the sin-shifters now holding daily
gospel in and around this afflicted city, evangelist
Geil takes the lion’s share of the women’s admira-
tion. The mania has reached that acute stage in
which crowds of girls block up the pavement in
front of the photographer’s show-case, worshipping
the portrait of the astute Geil. His name rhymes
with ‘ bile,’ and not with 1 veal ’ as the uninitiated
pronounce it. ‘ There he is ! ’ they cry with gasps
of gush at the shrewd, worldly, spectacled, Jewish
phiz (the most successful practitioners in the
Christian business are Jews to look at). The face
of this newest idol of the suburban girl strongly
recalls Zangwill’s. Not the typical parson by any
means ; his oiliness is all in nis curls. His holi-
ness is served daily on the half-shell; no cold-
storage about Geil. He is the most-talked-of man
in town. He fills the Town Hall any number of
times you like daily with a crowd, who hang
breathless on his words, laugh and weep at his
will and—he’s not worth crossing the road to hear.
As a humorist he’s not as good as Mark Twain at
Twain’s very worst, and Heaven knows Mark was
boresomeenough. His ‘raciness ’ is the raciness of
his nation ; all his phrases are the hackneyed com-
monplaces of American slang. ‘Nine-tenths of
most committees are asleep, but ten-tenths of this
committee has a move on.’ Then everybody
laughs, but there’s nothing original in the remark.
He tells the story of an unrepentant sinner who
filled up on griddle-cakes, felt them sitting on his
chest all night, came down in the morning, kicked
the cat, and raised hellabaloo. (Great laughter.)
Now, if he had stopped at the first syllable of the
last word, the audience would have shuddered,
but ‘ abaloo ’ made it all right, though the preacher
meant the other thing. And thus are the
goody-goody fooled ! As a religionist Geil
is as crude and vulgar as the Made-in-
Germany Scriptural chromo adorning a Sun-
day-schoolroom wall. He calls Sunday trains
‘ the devil’s chariots,’ looks on all whisky-sellers
as, ex officio, damned and done for, regards shekels
as the one thing needful to push along the Glori-
ous News, and is generally satisfied that ‘he is
waking up this town in the name of Christ.’ They
are all pious folk, these worshippers of the long-
haired Yankee man. And if they had as much
savee as salvation they’d save their fares by stay-
ing at home and reading the newspaper accounts
of the meetings, for the orator gains much in
crispness by the reports.
“Another of the Albert Miller family is en-
gaged. This time it is Clive, the third son—a
small-sized member of the moneyed _ clan. The
charmer is Miss Clara Wilson, who is just back
from a globe-trot. She is taller than her fiance,
slender, bright and dashing—as chic as you please.
She has a good nose, gleaming blue eyes, and a
saucy chin, which she tilts in the fashion of a
Lady Teazle. Her style is smart; if she were
richer, it would be brilliant, and so it will be later
on. Tho engagement was announced as soon as
the nut-brown maid had recovered her land tril-
bies. It was imminent when she set off on her
travels. Rather a compliment to young Mr.
Miller that so vivacious a girl travelled the world
and found* ‘ none nicer.’
(Continued on pages 27.)


Citizens’lMsurance Company [imited.
Premier Industrial-Ordinary Office Britain.
POLICIES X-iXT FORCE EXCEED 224,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Absolute Security. Annual Bonuses.
Moore and Castlerearjh Streets ,
Sgdnt’i.
Resident
W. ,T.
Secretary,
BLOOMFI l<il
it), 8.A., LL.li.
Danyell O’Connor, in a wail to Sydney
D.T. begs—
the respect and sympathy of every courteous man and
woman in my protest against Mr. Edward William
O’Sullivan. h ■
It seems the O’Sullivan didn’t send the O’Connor
an invitation to the railway station foundation-
stone ceremony in time. But among those present
was Mr. Larry Foley ; therein Danyell may per-
haps see an omen.
Sydney Telegraph joins the crowd which
wants the Gi-eater Sydney Council to be merely
an addition to the 42 mayors and sets of aldermen
already in existence:
Taking the London County Council as an instance
under it, and quite recently, 27 borough councils and one
city council (Westminster) have lately been established.
A fear was expressed at a suburban council, a night or
two ago, that the enlarged Sydney Council would be un-
able to manage suburban streets. It should be unneces-
sary to explain that a properly-constituted Greater Sydney
would not involve any such interference as is here sug-
gested, that streets and many other departments of that
kind would have to be under local management. These
are the practical aspects of the question, which the sub-
urban councils are expected to attend to.
Again, if such cities as Glasgow and Liverpool
can be efficiently managed by one council, which,
in Glasgow at all events, also owns and manages
gas, water, sewerage and tramways, what is there
about the smaller city of Sydney that it should
require 43 or 45 or 48 councils ?
Related —was it of Jay Gould'*? —that his
handwriting was so bad as to be illegible to the
old man himself. A letter of his replying to an
application for employment on one of his numer-
ous railways was, on the strength of the signature,
used by the recipient as a pass over the line for
many vears. In later days the typewriter has
done much to prevent fraud and mistakes formerly
traceable to bad writing. Had J.G., like The
Bulletin, used a “New Century” machine his
reputation as a letter-writer would be better to-
day. New Century Typewriters, the latest from
Yankee-land, are sold by the United Typewriter
and Supplies Co., of Sydney, Melbourne and
Perth.*
Australia.
•Lightest * Wines
in
Supplied to H.R.H. the Duke of York.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Many will regret to learn that W. H.
Traill, formerly editor of The Bulletin, lies
seriously ill of heart-trouble, at Brisbane.
The late James Hingston bequeathed £2OO
to Carlyle Smythe, the clever son of the “ Much
Travelled.”
Ex-Premier Adye Douglas touches 87 this
month, completing, with a slight Agent-General
intermission, 47 years in Tasmanian Parliamen-
tary history.
Council President Lackey, veteran of
N.S.W. politics, rises refreshed after his severe
illness to courteously bastinado his white-waist-
coated flock for another term.
John Thornton, a Yic. miner, aged 82,
went from his work in a mine to Ballarat hospital
some weeks back, and on being turned out the
other day went off to his job again.
Colonel Bull, retired Governor of Pen-
tridge (Melb.) prison, says that during his reign
some 600 backers of horses passed through, his
hands, but never one bookmaker. The “jug” is
only for the juggins.
“Lord Hampton'(formerly Governor of
New South Wales),” says Sydney Star. The
very name of the anaemic ex-Governor is forgotten
in the haunts that carry flat noses, from bowing
to him when in power.
The highly-respected Dean of an Austra-
lian metropolitan city arrived in this country as a
young man under an assumed name, and, though
lie possessed a University degree, earned his
living for some time by bullock-driving.
Stated that Mary Schippan, recently
acquitted on a charge of murdering her sister at
Towitta (S.A.) has married the witness in the case
whose evidence roused certain city hoodlums into
such a condition of moral indignation.
A Labor candidate for Torrens (Adelaide)
is a meat-man by trade. At his first meeting he
said- modestly : “ Although I am not much of a
speaker, no doubt many of you have heard my
voice before.” Then a wag in the rear cried
“Buteh-o ! ”
Premier Lewis, who visits Sydney for a
conference on May 15, is a native of Tasmania,
but an Oxford University graduate. B. R. Wise
is the only other Oxford man in Australia who
could at present, by a little exertion, fairly claim
the top rung in a State ladder.
So easily does the public slip into slovenly
inaccuracies that the new Governor of Queensland
complains of letters being addressed to him as
“Germcide.” If the atrocity be continued the
Premier may be asked to make it penal to use a
capital G during his Ex.’s reign.
SENATOR STYLES (VIC.).
G; W. Lambert writes from Paris that he
has been again accepted by the New Salon, his
contribution being a rather important painting of
a lady with guitar. He says that Ramsay, the
student who came second for the Victorian
scholarship, has had four pictures accepted.
A dignified member of the Australian
Bench lately treated himself to four nips of whisky
in quick sequence after passing sentence of death
on a prisoner. This is not given as an argument
against capital punishment, but as an instance of
the soothing effects of whisky on a troubled
mind.
Obit, (in France)—Rev. Wm. Brickwood,
M.A., aged 86. Nearly 60 years ago he success-
fully conducted an academy in Melbourne on the
site now occupied by the Argus office. Ordained
a priest in ’42, he officiated at Brighton until the
beginning of ’53, when he removed to England.
After graduating at Cambridge, he was appointed
to the incumbency of Tuddington, Bedfordshire,
and held the position until the end of 1900.
If an English War Office notification of
last year is adhered to, Lord Methuen will have
to stand court-martial for surrendering to the
enemy. This has long been the custom with cap-
tured naval officers, but it is believed that strong
efforts will be made to save Methuen from the
ordeal.
Judge Dash wood, who under Federal
authority will inquire into pearlshelling in and
about Port Darwin, is the fervid loyalist who
interrupted the hearing of an important criminal
case in Port Darwin court with an expressed wish
to sing “ Rule Britannia ” —news of a Boer licking
having just then readied him.
Q. Governor Chermside is a pompous little
man, fond of frippery. His oratory consists
mainly of ‘urns” and “ahs,” and is painfully
slow at that. Brassey was a brilliant speaker
compared with the new Q. figure-head. As
Governors, Norman and Lamington were both
good public speakers; the anti-climax is a steep
one.
Attorney-General Gordon, thanks to hard
work and the absence of Symon and John Downer,
now enjoys the biggest practice at S. A. bar.
Probably Symon loses anything around £3OOO a
year by dabbling in Federal politics, and most of
this now goes into the pockets of Gordon and
Nesbit, the only available K.C’s. with any local
reputation.
On Monday next (May 12) Speaker Holder,
of the Reps., will complete his 52nd year and
Rep. Vabien Solomon (S.A.) will attain the same
age on the following day. Solomon’s week of
treasurership in his own State was sandwiched in
between two long terms oy Holder in the same
office. In local politics each was constantly on
the trail oi the other.
Died at Hobart, Canon Banks-Smith, aged
83, the last of the Imperial ctiaplains of the convict
days. The Canon, whose iondness for sucking-
pig was a favorite joke in Hobart, where jokes are
few and far between, had a weakness for metaphor
which ied to some good puipit stories. A consci-
entious churchman, the Rev. Banks-Smith kept at
his work until very late in lite.
Lord Rosebery of the lonely furrow is still
a young man as English politicians go, for he only
completed hisssth year on Wednesday of this week.
He will be very much older ere he becomes Premier
again, for the main body of Liberals repudiate
him, and the Unionists show no signs of tumbling
into his arms. Herbert Gladstone reminded him,
t’other day, that leaders were made by parties and
not parties by leaders.
Sandow, the strong man, who comes to
Australia under engagement to Rickards, does
not in the street appear to be the muscular giant
that he is. He is a big, handsome man, a typical
Teuton, well-groomed, with a clear complexion,
light wavy hair, and a fair moustache curved
heavenward. Some time ago he married the
daughter of Warwick Brooks, the well-known
Manchester photographer.
Ebenezer Ward, who acted with G. Y.
Brooke at Adelaide Theatre Royal, who succeeded
Much Travelled Smythe as sub-editor of Adelaide
Advertiser, and who for years was a steadily-
declining personage in S.A. Parliamentary life,
is now writing his reminiscences for the papers.
Ward began his journalistic career on the Morn-
ing Post, London, he and Algernon Borthwick,
its proprietor, having been boys together in the
office.
“Fax”: Re appointment of younger
Supreme Court Judges The case of Grafton
(N.S.W.) Circuit Court is even worse than that of
Broken Hill. The authorities have apparently
quite abandoned all pretence of sending a Supreme
Court Judge up there. It is six years
now since a S.C. Judge sat at Grafton. The
business is important enough, as the April court
this year included two capital criminal cases, and
several heavy civil cases, and lasted a fortnight.
N.S.W. ex-District Court Judge Dowling,
who died last Sunday, was legal head of a new
State in Queensland for a brief period. It was
contemplated to divide Queensland into two
separate communities, and Mr. Dowling was
appointed Attorney-General of the Northern one,
Port Curtis. The discovery of gold, however, and
consequent rush of diggers, altered the plans, and
Mr. Dowling returned to Sydney. It is nearly 60
years since he was called to the Bar. He was
born in London in 1819.
It has been noticed in Maoriland that
Premier Seddon, in the many public speeches he
made ere leaving for England, never once referred
to Cecil Rhodes. Time was when the dead Raider
used to be referred to by Seddon as an “ Empire
Builder ” and great statesman.” What has gone
wrong? Has Seddon his ear so close to the
ground as to be able to detect that Rhodes is not
a good subject for popular glorification, or did
Rhodes—who was brutally blunt at all times —say
something derogatory of the Great Maoriland
Bounder ?
The death of Lavinia, Queen of Tonga, is
expected to renew the old trouble of fixing the
widower-king up in another matrimonial compact.
The Tongans will not let him be without a wife,
and the King is too bashful to court, so half a
dozen parties, each with a favorite, hunt him all
the days of the week. Before marrying Lavinia,
he had serious thoughts of resigning the throne to
get out of the multitude of cabals. The young
man’s bashfulness is attributed to the fact that he
was brought up in a Sydney suburban college,
under the management of reverend Wesleyans.
“Melb.”: Simultaneous-missiouers de-
nounce smoking. But at least two of their num-
ber, Pastor Fitchett and Pastor Sugden, both
engaged as preachers in this mission, are well-
known smokers. I attended a lecture by Fitchett,
with Sugden in the chair. Fitchett said, in
effect, that every literary man worth his salt was
a smoker —including himself. He went a good
deal further, and to my astonishment declared
that he advised every Christian girl to pick a
smoker for a husband ! Let the other missionaries
put that in their pipe, and smoke it. Sugden
THE DECLINE OF THE LEGITIMATE.
endorsed Fitchett. I have seen Sugden smoking
a cigar on Collins-street Block. And what a
smoker was Spurgeon!
Two tall ears were harvested recently.
Samuel Pickett, squatter, aged 76, took one last
look at the station and the station accounts, swal-
lowed strychnine, and covered up his face. H. E.
Martin, squatter also, once as well known in
Dubbo as Sam M'Oaughey is m Urana, went out
among the trees in one of the paddocxs of death,
and blew off his skull-cap. Bad cases these,
showing in red letters the hopelessness of the
game many of thegallant Western men are playing.
They are at last grips with the drought and so
hobbled by financial obligations as to be impotent
either for fight or retreat.
Chief-Justice Darley’s retirement on a
year’s leave, and probably altogether, finally dis-
poses of the whole Bench of Judges who sat in
N.S.W. Supreme Court when his Honor took
office in ’B6. Fawcett, Manning, Windeyer, and
Innes are dead; others who ascended since are
dead; and Stephen and Owen, at present the
seniors, are preparing to retire. It is believed
that the Chief Justice would resign at once but
that he fears pensioned Judges don’t survive.
Windeyer certainly died “young”; but what
about Alfred Stephen and, in a smaller way, the
frail “Water-Jug” Foster?
The Melb. Age cable-twister got badly
mixed over Cardinal Moran’s visit to Pope Leo,
ascribing it to Pierpont Morgan, the U.S. man of
dollars, and crediting that magnate with a gift of
£l2OO to the Vatican. Explanation lies in the
fact that columns of Morgan and his great ship-
ping-combine had been coming through, and the
Age man got him so badly on the brain that it
never seems to have occurred to him that a mere
person named Moran should drop in for afternoon
tea at the Vatican. It is quite a relief to find
that imaginative pressman letting his incoherent
fancy run riot in other directions besides the
alleged war.
“ Melb.” : The Methodist Spectator says
that the graudsire of Lieut. Witton, of the Bush-
veldt Carbineers, was William Witton, the first
Melbourne local preacher. W. Witton was an
excellent man, who preached 40 years without fee
or reward. He began in a suburb called the
Brickfields, on a site to the south of Melb., now
occupied by factories, and the favorite pitching
ground of circuses, like Fitzgerald’s, Bailey’s,
Wilson’s, Chiarini’s, Cole’s, and Eillis’s. Witton
was a notable preacher also in Collingwood,
Fitzroy, Richmond, and Brighton. He became a
Gippsland pioneer, and there preached away with
the same ardor.
Godfrey Downes Carter, ex-Treasurer of
Victoria, just dead, only held office once, being
selected by butcher Patterson for his right-hand
man, and soon earning such a reputation for up-
setting the calculations of his colleagues that no-
body ever dreamt of giving him a show again.
Patterson and Co., who had a momentous time of
it in the boom-burst, made “ mum’s the word ”
their guiding motto, but they were constantly put
away by the discursive Carter. Most of the Pat-
terson crowd are out of politics now through
death and other causes, but those who still prowl
round have not ceased anathematising Carter for
the fall of their house of cards.
Thus a candidate for a South Australian
Assembly district in a burst of confidence
Well, to tell the truth, I’m not great on polities and I
don’t think it matters much who gets into the House.
They all seem to be on the make. But the free railway
pass will suit my business all to pieces and it gives a
fellow a bit of a status, too, when he goes to the other
colonies if he’s able to write M.P. after his name. The
screw is all right to a chap like me for it’s just as easy t 0
pop into Parliament when it’s sitting as anywhere else,
and you can get the fellows you want to see to come down
to the gallery, while there’s business to be picked up with
the other jokers in the House. Besides your name is kept
constantly before the public and that means a lot these
times. If I don’t get in I shan’t worry much, but if Ido
the thing will be a really good scoop.
The broad-minded and sympathetic Canon
Pain, of Darlinghurst, Sydney, is the first Anglican
Bishop of Gippsland, Vic. As usual when a
prelate is required for a country see, where the
difficulties are most and the emoluments fewest, a
local clergyman has been selected instead of im-
porting a man from England as is done when a
metropolitan Bishopric is vacant. The new Gipps-
land bishop should be a success. He is no
preacher. But the Anglican Church locally is
noted for its few orators and those i t does possess
are mostly indifferent pastors. Canon Pain be-
longs to the “ grafters ” among the clergy rather
than the pulpit stars. He is reputedly the hardest-
worked vicar in Sydney diocese. Sydney will see
him go with regrets.
“ Werrimee” : Re Queensland busn-
rangers. I knew the Kenniff , 1B
! Casino, N.S.W. They were staunch K.G. s,
■{ and the boys attended church regularly.
One of them, when only 14, broke out
suddenly by belting the priest, x atner
M‘Cabe. He afterwards joined certain rela-
tives of his in horse-stealing and cattle-duffing.
They first took to the bush between Gasma
and Clarence River, and gave the police a
few lively goes before they were captured,
one being mounted on a stolen racehorse, x lva
or six years ago some of the Kenniffs crossed
into Queensland, stole horses from Lansdown,
faked the brands, and cut numbers on the
horses’ necks with a penknife. One of the
family was only released from quod recently.
Their run of late years has been around Kpma.
If well acquainted with the neighborhood of
their last break-out, they are more likely to
make for some of the numerous caves of the Upper
Dawson than to ‘cross the border, as the police
think. I have travelled that country it is
amongst the wildest and most rugged in Australia.
A safe rule for a royal house to follow is
to keep its scions strictly at home. Australia can
never again imagine anything great of kings since
it saw the Duke of York. Even American toadies
'have been shocked into some smise by the visit of
Prince Henry of Prussia. They complain that
he was too tired to place a wreath on Grant s
tomb, but was fresh enough to attend a fashion-
able luncheon that day. He was also unable to
pay a visit to the Columbia University, which had
been previously arranged ; but could attend a
dinner at the Grosse Deutsche Gesellschaft in the
evening. And so on. Keep your kids at home,
dear kings, emperors, czars, etc. —keep ’em at
home.
A now-deceased TasnTanian clergyman
once preached a sermon on the cleansing
power of religion, and compared its effects to a
Turkish He said a lady parishioner had
advised him to take a T.B. for some complaint,
and “my dearly-beloved friends, you’d be sur-
prised to see the amount of dirty muck that came
out of me.” But the congregation was not
GOOD INDUCEMENT.
LITTLE GIRL: “Eh, Beelzebub, yer got to come
in and ’ave a hammerin' for not coming
when you're called."
(N.B. —What Beelzebub said isn't fit for print.)
half so surprised as the rev. gentleman seemed to
expect. On another occasion he stopped a lady in
the street to thank her for half-a-dozen pairs of
woollen socks she had sent him eight weeks
before. He assured her they were splendid socks,
so comfortable that he had worn the one pair ever
since.


fgh
BULLETIN SUBSCRIBERS^"
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing, whose distant vision is dull and who suffer
from persistent headaches or pains after close application—you
may rest assured that you are suffering from Ageing or
Impaired Vision, and Need Glasses. You should visit
us, and have your sight scientifically tested, and be supplied
with Glasses adapted to your individual case.
TO COUNTRY READERS who cannot visit us personally, we send, Post Free to any address, with full instruc-
tions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT. By its use
you can Test your own sight and determine for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you liiay need.
Write for it to —
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Consulting Optician,
371 George St., Sydney,
next door to the A. J.S. Bank.
King and George Streets.
And at 232 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, opposite Ask Office.
The HANSARD Fountain Pen
(Authorised by Hansard Staff).
14ct. GOLD NIB.
Fine, Medium, or Broad Points.
One Quality—The Best; One Price—The Lowest, 7/6 (Post Paid).
fgh
Barrel of every Pen branded “ The Hansard.” ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTE. Sent to any address on receipt of price.
F. LASSETTER & CO., Ltd., SYDNEY. HANSARD PEN CO-, Box 98, C.P.0., SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. —ln the case of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
NO SAVEE.
CHINESE STOREKEEPER
(who has a full quiver
of decent-looking daughters, and has been asked
by a young Australian for permission to escort
one of his straw-colored young ladies to a ball):
“ No feel Ling-a-Ling a losie all li', but me no
savee you puttem alms lound my ni' lilly gel all-
a-time another feller go pink-ponk, pink-ponk on
piano”
N.S.W. Minister Crick met with some
things worth looking at in the West. Among
others he found that Australia’s largest river had
ceased for about 500 miles to be a river, and was
merely isolated water-holes. He found a wheat
crop growing in the river bed where the water
was never expected any more, and he passed
under a triumphal arch of sheep skulls and cattle
bones. He also discovered that if the money
which will be wanted for “ Australia facing the
Dawn” was spent on locking the Darling it
would back up the water (when there
is any again) into a net-work of dry
creeks and dry lagoon beds for 70 miles on one
side of the river and 25 miles on the other,
which means that it would irrigate, in a rough
and ready fashion, a strip of country 95 miles wide
following the course of the river, and give it a
water supply sufficient to enable it to stand off
the drought for a few years at all events. Possibly
a perfect locking system, which backed up the
waters (when there are any) in the tributary and
adjacent rivers, would supply a far wider stretch
of country. It is a strange land, full of dry lake
beds called Weytchugga andßallwarry andPoopel-
loe and Teryaweynya and Moornanyah and Poll-
wellaluka and Gunyulka, and dry creeks named
Booroorangee and Kirribree and Natiola and
Talyawalka, and similar shrieks and outcries.
All those, and many still more dreadful, would be
Birmanent, or nearly permanent, reservoirs if the
arling was locked along its whole length. The
country is all low-lying, and it is difficult to say
how far the water might extend with a proper
system of locks. Even the county of Barrona, :
which has nothing in it at present except !
the 30th degree of latitude, and the dry
bed of Lake Nichebulka, and 58 people
(of whom one is a widow) might cease to
be quite hopeless then. If O’Sullivan were
stationed permanently in the West, so that he
would forget Pinchgut and his parks beside the
Harbor, and so that the needs of the dry land and
the yearning to make it blossom like the rose could
soak into his mind, and if See would send along
the needful millions from Sydney to keep him
going, a new life might spring up on the _ dry
shores of Gunyulka and Ballwarry—especially
Ballwarry.
* * * •
The Brisbane and Queensland clergy sup-
plicated rain a few days ago. In answer, a few
days after, certain coast districts got an inch,
some 50 points, some 10 and 15 points. The great
droughty West, as usual, got nil. There is no
sense in these loose, miscellaneous supplications.
Let the clergy draw up a definite schedule of re-
quirements according to districts, and pray accord-
ingly : “O Lord, send down rain as per above-
mentioned schedule ! ” At present they pray for
Geraldton (that sometimes gets 20in. in a day) in
the same breath that they implore Providence on
behalf of Boulia and Birdsville !
* • » *
The muster-liar rears his head :
On Darr River Downs (Mitchell district) in ’9B, four
men with dogs, mustered.B2,4l7 sheep and two lambs in
one day out of a paddock 25 miles sq. or thereabouts,
counted and yarded before sundown. Would like to hear
from any reader who has seen this beaten.
* * *■ •
A Melbourne lady is credited by her super-
stitious friends with having “something to do
with the weather.” They say
that when she leaves a
locality to go elsewhere for
a week or more, it always
rains in the place that she is
leaving, and fine, bright
weather greets her ar-
rival at the other end.
An Irishman, say Dan
O’Connor, could give
a chivalrous explana-
tion—something about
tears and smiles—of
the chain of coincid-
ences which set the super-
stition going. The most
remarkable link of the
chain : the lady was stay-
ing on a N.S.W. station
which was ravaged by
a deadly drought. She
wanted to go, “ so as to
bring the rain,” but
her hostess wouldn’t
hear of it. So she
stole off secretly—
and then it rained,
fciince then the fair
friend of the Clerk
of the Weather
has been flooded
with requests to
try her powers in
various places.
» w
“ Coomac ” :
In reply to a recent
inquiry, let me say
that the kangaroo
and wallaby-fly has
been known for
over 80 years. It
is parasitic, and
is scientifically
labelled olfersia
macleayi. Horses
in India are
similarly infest-
ed. Our birds
also are fly-in-
fested. Present
writer, in ’93,
discovered a new
species on the king
parrot. When kangaroos and wallabies are weak
and starving they will be infested with macleays;
but rarely so when they are strong and well-fed.
» • * *
“ 8.R.” : Cannot accept “degeneracy ” as
a cause of different colors in the rabbit race.
About here (Junee), there are rabbits of all shades,
from the pure albino to the black—but they are
far from being degenerate. Can do their
“hundred” under “evens,” excavate burrows
that must reach near down to Sheol, destroy crops
and gardens as fast as the “ cockies ” can get them
ready, subsist on the smell of a gumtree, and
bring the highest price in any market. So much
for “ degeneracy ! ”
* » * *
“Spimps” : Be “J.W.C.’s” suggestion
(B. 12/4/’O2) that color-variety in rabbits occurs
principally in the progeny of immature does. I
am satisfied that the “colored ” rabbit is almost
invariably larger and more sagacious than the
others. Indeed, the faot that he reaches maturity
(despite his conspicuous color) confirms this. He
is probably a “throw-back,” and frequently a
good one.
* * * *
Trainloads of emaciated sheep are daily
passing down the N.S. Wales S.W. line —driven
from the summer country in the mountains by
cold and want of feed, and going to —well, a
desert, where there isn’t even a vestige of grass
and almost waterless. How the owners intend
to keep them alive is a mystery. This drought
practically means the extinction, in a pastoral
sense, of the famous Riverina and its flocks, care-
fully bred up by enthusiasts for well-nigh half-a-
century. Heartbreaking, indeed, to seethe labor
of a lifetime dissipated in a few months !
AUSTRALIANS AT CRICKET.
THE WICKET: “ Easy up, now! No more of
those windjammers or we'll bite the batsman’s
legs. ”
The Bogan at Nyngan is at present very
low, and recent operations by the council, pump-
ing water from one hole to another, to augment
the town supply, have provided a fine fish harvest.
Over a ton of fish was taken out within 10 days—
cod weighing from \\ to 36 lbs., black bream
by the bushel, yellow belly, carp (some golden,
weighing 2Jlbs.) and the inevitable catfish.
• • * •
Be cookies selling off their crops as soon as
marketable, and not giving the future a thought.
Not long ago, writes a correspondent, many
Molong (N.S.W.) farmers sold all their hay at
£2 to £2 ss. per ton to speculative buyers who
didn’t move the hay out of Molong. Now the
drought-afflicted cookies want feed for their stock
and have to buy the very same hay back at from
£4 10s. to £5.
* •» * »
“J.M.N.”: Be finding the north point
on a cloudy day “J.A.C.” (8., 26/4/’O2) errs in
his method. He says if the shadow be made to
fall across the face of the watch from the 12 to
the 6, then the hour-hand points due north. As a
matter of fact the north and south line lies mid-
way between the hour-hand and the shadow. Ac-
cording to “J.A.C.’s” method, if the sun were
rising .at 6 o’clock it would be rising in the south
point.
• • • •
“ M.” : Like most other advantages which were
to come to us through the holy war, the returns
from horseflesh dwindle whenever a serious
attempt is made to realise. Griffiths Bros., of
Albury, sold just over 2,000 by auction the other
day, and for a return of just under £lO,OOO. That
is to say, the sellers got a good deal under £5, and
probably not more than £4 per head. Where is
the money in that ? Four-year-old bullocks would
have made double the money, while good dairy
cows, to be bred with less risk, would bring even
more.
“ J.V.”: Met the Syrian
in a new sphere t’other day.
Came to a traveller’s hut just
before shearing-time, and was
greeted with—“Hulloo, mis-
ter ; what you do here 1 ”
“Going to shear.” . . “Come
inside, shearer, and rest your
poo’ feet. Plenty tea and
brownie there, shearer ; help
yourself. Me going to put
up for the qooking here. You
think many cooks come here,
shearer ? ” Another swaggie
arrives, “Hulloo, mister;
what you do here ? ” Swag-
gio : “Going wool-rolling.”
“You rouseabout, eh ? You
go down to the creek. Plenty
firewood down there ; big
hole plenty fish.” The rouse-
about’s cook is, of course,
“ put on ” by the squatter,
not elected by the men, as is
the case with theshearers’.
• • *
Horticultural expert
Luffman, lecturing Victorian
market-gardeners recently on
their scientific deficiencies,
said that the average Chow
could give his European com-
petitor points and a bad
beating in knowledge of
soils. Then a wrathful tiller
of the earth jumped up to
smash the audacious expert.
“Mr. Chairman, sir,” he
began, “me father was an
aggericulturist, me grand-
father was an aggericul-
turist, me great-grandfather
was an aggericulturist, an’
I’m an aggericulturist, and
d’you mean to tell me, sir, Mr. Luffman, that a
blanky Chinnyman ” !• Then language failed
the aggericulturist, and a speechless Caucasian
sat down gasping his unutterable loathing for
the scientific Chow.
* * * *
“ Eller ” : Be bees’-nests and whether it
would pay to send honey to Sydney. It would
Eay now, as the price runs to 3£d. per lb. for best.
ome time ago the market was glutted and the
price from Id. to 2d. per lb., at which it did
not pay to gather or grow.
“Myall”: Was lately travelling out
West, and struck a scrub-cutter’s
camp with a fearful appetite.
Fastened my horse to a tree,
and was exchanging usual
remarks about the weather
with one of the men,
when a voice yelled
from within a bough-
shed nearby: “Eh,
Bill! ’ere’s yer
dorg collarin’ the
meat!” “Ger-
out; drop it, yer
stumpy - tailed
worm,” roared
Bill, as he made
after the levant-
ing canine. In
a few seconds
Bill returned
with the rescued
mutton in his
hand, threw it
on to the tin
dish, and invited
me to “ Have a
feed, mister.” It
was twelve miles to
the next habitation, and as likely as not the meat
there had been mauled by a dog just like Bill’s
dog; but, all the same, I declined.
* * • •
“ Grafter ” to The Bulletin :
The light of “ Lux,” in S.M. Herald, is very vague.
He says : “ I am a squatter, with a comparatively small
flock, and I am now employing 40 additional hands, and
could find employment for many more if they could be
obtained.” But he doesn’t say who or where he is.
Further, “Lux” knows of a station (also unspecified)
employing 150 extra hands, and another wanting 100,
and is prepared to make affidavit that 95 per cent, of the
squatters in the Central and Western N.S.W. districts
are in just the same predicament— i.e., if they have any
means left. Summing all this up, it would appear that
many hundreds, perhaps thousands, of men could be
employed in that country, could earn wages there and
help to keep stock alive. But if it is so, why don’t the
squatters express their wants, state their wages, des-
cribe the work to be done and, as near as possible,
its period? If it is worth travelling for, there
are hundreds of men in Sydney who have a better
chance of getting the plague than a permanent 7s.
a day, and by this time know it. They would go out soon
enough. But is it 15s. a week, “ eighteen two and a
quarter” for a month, and then hump bluey in a howling
wilderness 500 miles from home ? “ Lux ” should shine
brighter just here. When his written words come to be
tried they don’t all ring right. What does any man with
a “ comparatively small flock” want with 40 extra hands?
Or, otherwise, what is a comparatively small flock? If
things are as “Lux” describes them, it is a matter of
simple duty and self-interest to tell us where they are.
He might help to save the stock and the people, too, that
way. But, somehow, these backblock squatters, who
offer such brilliant prospects to casual workers, never do
care about coming into print and stating exactly what
they want and will pay.
* * * •
“Bob R.” returns to his charge :
Dear B. —If your indignant A.W.U. champion “ G.”
(8., 3/5/’O2) really does know anything about the shearers’
union, why does he affect subterfuges and half-truths?
We know the membership fee is 15s. plus 6s. for the
Worker, which every member must subscribe to, and if
that isn’t £l, well—ask George Reid. We also know that
the maximum rate for shearing is 255. per 100—and in
N.S.W. it is the minimum rate too —and we are dealing
with N.S.W. rates, not Victorian ! We don’t fix the salary
of any official; on that point, at any rate, we confess the
profoundest ignorance. Will this ingenuous correspondent
kindly answer these two questions: (1) Why were the
men not consulted on the proposed changes in shearing
rates and membership fee ? (2) If the Arbitration Court
is to put an end to strikes, what is the necessity of raising
THE SYDNEY WATER-FAMINE.
Bad time for the pelicans. Pathetic sketch in a dried-up pond
at the Zoo.
the membership fee to £l, and what is to become of the
large sum so collected, seeing that in the year (1890) of
the big strike a subscription of 10s. per annum sufficed to
cover all expenses ? It’s no use throwing ’arf-bricks at
the “ lordly squatters ” whilst our own house is built of
such brittle material 1
* • * *
“ Jack-a’-Clubs ” : I know of a natural
compass in the shape of a green shield-back insect
that, no matter in what direction you place its
head, invariably turns towards the South. In
two hours I found 15, all either moving or facing
South.
THE CORO. CRAWL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s a slimy trail a-gleaming o’er the land and o’er
the sea,
Where the politicians’ bellies go a-dragging abjectlee !
There’s a toady host a-marching and a band of slugs
a-sprawl—
Going ’Ome upon their stomachs to the Coronation
Crawl I
Oh the Crawl 1 Coro. Crawl! —hear the bingies
beat and fall
In a sweet batrachian cadence on King Tummy’s
palace floor!
Hear the crawling human worms, in somnolent
greasy terms,
Begging entry of the footmen at —haw—Windsor
Castle-door 1
All our lizards and gohannas are a-trekking far away—
Off to see a monarch garnished with his crown and
sceptre gay 1
All the snakes are crawling ’Omewards—with our toffs
they flatly sprawl,
Going ’Ome upon their weskits to the abject Coro. Crawl 1
Going ’Ome ! Crawling ’Ome ! —dragging slowly
thro’ the loam,
See the snails and worms and tree-grubs making
tracks unto the spree 1
From the Station and the Hall, see the human
reptiles crawl,
With their slimy eyes on Edward and
Jinkeree 1


Patents for. Inventions.— Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world. *
Mansfield (Vic.) shire council asks the
Government to offer a reward of £100,000 for some
device which will extirpate rabbits. Why hasn’t
it struck anybody to offer £250,000 reward for a
device that will abolish sin, nightmares and
mosquitoes ?
A SMILE AND A MORAL.— “ What the
dustman is to the dwelling in which we live, that
Hunyadi Janos is to the local habitation of the
human spirit.” Thus, writes a well-known
medical writer.*
MEN’S
OQ. WANTS
We cater for. We know all about them—
we mean the wants. We have just exactly
what men want—no use trying to sell
them anything else- does not pav. Goods
right—Prices right—Everything right—
quick buyers. All our Men’s Goods are
still at the Old Prices.
Freetrade Prices. —Our prices have
not been altered. They must be when
the present stock is sold— 27J per cent,
duty. Gentlemen will find every requisite
in profusion in our stock.
Sterling Silver Tobacco Box, 22/6.
Sterling: Silver Match
Boxes, 5/- to 15/-
London Prices.
Plain Figures.
Strictly Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney
23 HUNTER STREET.
NO ACCOUNTING FOR TASTES: A SKETCH IN SYDNEY DOMAIN.
Was it because this dead-beat's coat was turning green, or because of its groggy
flavor that this milch cow preferred it to the fresh young grass?
The pearl-shelling industry is occupying
attention just now, on account of the “floating
stations’ ” desire to have the provisions of the
Aliens Immigration Restriction Act relaxed in
their favor. In the early days of the industry the
Govt, settlement was at Somerset, where craft
usually foregathered once a month to ship their
catches and get supplies. Things were free and
easy in those days, and fashions a bit primitive,
boots being conspicuous by their rarity. On one
occasion the Bench had to try a sailor for refusing
duty. The only pair of boots in the crowd
belonged to the sailor, and the P.M. borrowed
them to hear the case in, duly returning them
after fining defendant and ordering him to return
to his vessel. He was a polite man, was the P.M.,
and a stickler for Court etiquette.
* » * •
“M.F.” : Whenever men are out in the
bush and “wanted,” the subject of “bush-tele-
graphs” crops up, and there is much wonderment
about the ingenuity of it all. The telegraphs are
simply smoke-signals, and are in constant use
amongst all “ cronk ” men way-back. I was
travelling with a stock-inspector on the Upper
Murray, and he was pushing hard. Suddenly he
stopped and said: “I may just as well turn
back.” “ What’s the matter ? ” “See that?” It
was a wtiiff of smoke going up from a bald hill
three miles ahead. “ I know there are 3000 sheep
on Bringebong Common—they have been there
for a week. Since ‘ that ’ they know I’m coming
up, and will be across the river two hours before
we arrive.” Police movements are telegraphed
the same way.
“ Sphinx ” : In a South Coast
(N.S.W.) train, t’other day, I learned
to appreciate the modesty of the
Chow. In the second-class car were
a fat gin, a Chinaman (unusually
dirty), and a young fellow anxious for
fun. The last promised the gin a
glass of rum if she succeeded in kiss-
ing the Chinaman before arriving at
Wollongong, and the dusky syren
began to ogle John. Finding him im-
pregnable to her gentle advances, she
slid along the seat to his side, threw
herself across him and her arms about
his neck, and kissed him heartily.
Chinkie shrieked, thrust her off, and
gesticulated wildly. “Ha—ya ! Shoo
—tong ! —pleeciman ! —mo—pun—ki—hi ! ” As
soon as the train stopped he fled.
* * * *
The views and remarks, more or less
expurgated, of Kelly of Kildare, cookies’ man-of-
all-work, concerning the farm-labor question re-
cently debated in Melb. Argus :
Faith an’ thim cookies is breakin’ me heart, so they is.
Now, there’s thim in the cramerv districts. Wurrk?
Divil a man there can ye find wid a hair on his head.
Why? Sure they do alius be butting the cow, poor
crachur, in the flanks to make her lit down more milk.
An’ there’s the cookies in the raper and binder counthry.
Ah, it’s thim’s the boys for thricks. Wan av them hires
you, and thin, bad cess, phwat does he do but lind you
round to his neighbors, as if you were a Deadwood Dick
story-book—no liss. ’Twas one of them I met in the
Ovens counthry, an’ a hot mimber he was. “ Have yez a
job about,” sez I?” “Ihave,” he sez, “it's the min I
have I’m going to sack. ’Tis nothing but growl they will
do, an’ all becos I call thim to work at 4 in the moriiin’,”
he sez. * ‘ Go on,” I sez ; “ the ungrathful gossoons ! Why,
in the Lakes, ’tis at 3 o’clock they’re called every morn-
in’.” “ Luk at that now,” sez ’e, “ it will just show yez.”
“Quart-
pot”: A some-
what belated
word about
the brolga-eat-
ing question,
I have always
found the
flesh palat-
able. Once,
near Powell’s
Creek, in ’76,
I shot and
roasted one,
and, to m y
surprise, my
Port Darwin
blackboy
would not
touch it.
“ No fear,” he
said, “ sup-
pose eat e m
that fella, very
quick tumble
down.” Ihe
explanation, I
found, was
that the old
aboriginal
men made the
youths believe
that evil would
happen to
them from eat-
ing the bird
before they
had attained a certain age—and ditto with other
good articles of food. Cunning old nigs ! Brolgas
are sold in numbers at the best poulterers’ shops in
Melbourne in the season.
Statement by one of the largest M.L.
meat exporters:—
I saw Maoriland and Argentine meat hanging together
in Smithfield, and one is as good as the other ; it is only
the innate conservativeness of the British public which
is giving a better price for prime Canterbury.
Which seems a rather bad outlook for the province,
considering its favorite theory that no one can
touch its meat in quality.
Sydney Protestant Banner doesn’t bom-
bard the Scarlet Woman with mullet-perjuries,
but with nasty alleged extracts from somebody
called St. Liguori. The paper professes to find
the extracts so very nasty indeed that it has to
publish them thus
By a vow to for.. ..since the wife had him to
.... .because then she is herself considered to have....,
that is, that the husband... .the 0n.. .. ; unless (as is
excepted by Sanchez, &c.,) the .were in....0f.... ;in
which case, say they, the party is to from the
very—of itself.
Which might be extracts from some saint, and
again might be a bit of the 39 Articles, or of
the latest Book of the Pantomime. But how
goat-shaved persons must revel on Sunday after-
noons in filling up the blanks with all imaginable
filth !
Complimentary description given to a
Melbourne bench, the other day, by a deserted
husband about the Lothario who had toyed with
MISS ADA CROSSLEY, the Australian contralto —her
latest English photo.
his wife’s young affections: “ Joe was
dirty outside and dirty inside. He was knock-
kneed, round-shouldered, and awkward in every
way.” But Joe seems to have had a taking way
with the woman for all that.
PETER ANSON’S SPOTTED DOG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Said Jim Watson : “ Twig them spots on
Peter Anson’s bloomin’ dog ;
Came thro’ feedin’ ori bad readin’
Stidder proper canine prog.
You know Peter uster beat a
Lotter coves at readin’ books ;
Any day you looked his way you
Might see Pete on tenterhooks
Of elation, expectation,
Wadin’ thro’ some blood-stained yarn ;
Eyebrows t.witchin’, carcase hitchiu’,
All a-shake from head to starn.
“ I’m no scholar—that bloke Zola
Writes stuff blue enough for me :
Pete was awful!—read unlawful
Tales of Sin an’ Infamy !
Penny-dreadfuls ! Had three shedfuls,
Chock with rapine, vice, an’ death !
Tell you squarely, murders fairly
Formed the fellow’s food and breath :
Got enraptured, fair crime-captured ;
Sort of reg’lar blood-yarn hog—
Sank so deep in legends creepin’
He—forgot—to—feed—his—dog.
“ Dog got hungry, chew’d ironmong’ry—
Anything that came along;
Pete sat tight there, day an’ night there,
Readin’ volumes hot an’ strong.
Dog got frantic, corybantic,
Started bitin’ Peters ‘ Dreads ; ’
’Want of notice, epiglottis,
Soon got stained with blues an’ reds !
Dog kept chewin’ tales of ruin
Till the dye soaked through his hide.
Twig the cur, now ! tell you, sir, now—
He’s one mass of crime inside ! ”
VIC.
THE BETRAYER
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
N o notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
A.P.W. : Quite true that Missioner Greil didn’t
openly say that the coward was Ingersoll, but the refer-
ence could apply to no other. And Geil has preserved a
deathly silence re that offer of £25 for any evidence in
support of his slander H.T.P.: If that recent Mel-
bourne suicide died at the age of 51 as reported, and
fought in the Indian Mutiny (45 years ago), as you say,
he must have been a very young veteran A.D.F. : The
English king of the period (Henry II.) had authority
from Pope Adrian IV. (in the gorgeous days when Popes
professed to give away kingdoms) to annex Ireland. That
was the reason assigned for taking Ireland. No English
statesman professes now that the papal grant was of any
value, but Ireland is retained on general principles
P.D.O. : There is hardly an old-world name which is not
duplicated and triplicated throughout Australia. In one
instance there are six townships in the Commonwealth
bearing the same title. There are, by the way. no less
than 11 Melbournes in the English-speaking world—two in
England, three in Canada, one in Australia, and five in the
U.S J.H.B. (Eng.): Your achievement is not equal to
your purpose, and you have as little skill as principle.
Steal, if you must steal, with more discretion
D.A. : Only one thought in it, and that (though perhaps
you don’t know it) was used by O. W. Holmes—the idea
that the stars blink at man’s bad deeds... .Milky W.: You
fail to establish connection between fervid piety and
red hair—though we don’t say they are unconnected....
O. : On the contrary, this paper has always
been most glad to draw public attention to any
decent prospecting show when the prospector
gives details and is not ashamed to sign his
name Muriel A.: Declined E. Macrow : The
column headed “ Bards of the Backblocks” doesn’t pro-
fess to be filled “ with examples of cultured verse.”
Sometimes the alleged-verse is cultured, and sometimes it
isn’t. The idea, the sentiment, is the thing ; the form is a
minor consideration Cadette : All right. In it goes
P. : “ Ode ” about rose, thistle, and shamrock, “ not
forgetting our pungent and succulent leek,” declined
because there is no mention of the wattle. Odes of that
sort must give ail the representative vegetables a fair
show B.B.: Your utterly humorless yarn would
get Bulletin six months, unless there was culp-
able carelessness on the part of the authorities
Democrat: We didn’t definitely say that they
would appear—we only told you how to
claim for anything of yours which might appear
Eunice : Merely an echo of Coventry Patmore Sub-
scriber : (1) We rarely reprint verse. (2) The Americans,
during a war with Spain, enlisted the help of the Fili-
pinos to beat the Spaniards out of the Philippines ; they
represented that they came as liberators of the Filipinos
and those artless people believed them. When Spain was
duly licked, America annexed, instead of freeing, the
Philippines ; the people objected as much to American
tyranny as they had done to Spanish tyranny ; hence the
present war, which is just as dog-mean an enterprise as
J. Bull’s reach for Naboth’s vineyard in S’Africa
Marulan : So called because on 9th March, 1816, six Boers
were hanged at Slachter’s Nek, their wives and children
being forced to witness their death. Before the end
came the beam on which they hung fell, but they were
again hoisted up and strangled... Shadow : No, we did
not wish it altered and returned. When one hesitates as
to the merit of verses, they are lost—especially if
looked at a second time. The only thing really worth
printing is the thing that hits you right in the"eye
H.K.H. (Maoriland): A clever play*upon words, but a
poem which can be read two ways and is quite ordinary
both ways isn’t much better than if it was ordinarj- one
way O.M. : Two gentle, softly-flowing narratives with
a nice, little, pussy-cat kind of a moral. No, thanks....
Totara: Very clever yarn, but it would ruin us with the
Social Purity Society and the Dry Baptists and the
Recbabites, and we would never be asked to Government
House any more A.B. : But were Morant and Co.
afraid that the missionary would inform on them, or
were they simply angry at his interference? Apparently
there was no need to be much afraid. When cer-
tain of Morants own men informed, their report
was suppressed by the superior officer to whom it
was made, and they were told to return to duty....
Umeralla : Pretty, but no particular thought A.W.H. :
Quite out of the running D. Hovers: Card yarns not
up. Fisherman idea all right, but lacks artistically con-
secutive treatment Kelpie : A very rough specimen of:
bloke set to music Henry P. (Vic.): Glad to see you..
. .Edge N. : Very true—and very trite. Adds nothing to
what has already been said O.D. : If the
grasshopper matter is a bush item, it is pro-
bably waiting its turn with a lot more of similar
sort H. Myrtle: Why send as original the
baldest chestnut extant? M.W. : Better write to
George Adams, Tattersall’s Hotel, Sydney, for the infor-
mation Spinafex (with an “a”): More dismal bush
grave. Declined Barney B. : We abhor dialect. Also,
Dooley still lives S.C.O. : Presentation item too frisky :
“Days—A.” very flat T.C.O. :' But you don’t send the .
agreement B.F. : Just so W.J.C. : “Grirnbo” is
hardly a story Alec. Z. : No special vim in your kisses.
D.F.M. : “ Duett” too reminiscent of a French verse
beginning “La vie estbreve.”. ..Gelert: Political matter
no point: verse won’t scan Purples : Horse-swop
yarns have to be done very well since “ David Harum.”
C.W.P. : Inconsequential yarn J.G.G. : All have
some merit, hut none quite up to mark.... VV. J. : The
gentleman who sends us a self addressed envelope, “ - ,
, Esq., M.A., is always hopeless as a bard—or as
anything else Waistink : Too laborious Charlie:
Having learned to read, keep on reading ; don’t bother
about “writing poetry” for a while yet Rita S. :
“Pioneers” doesn’t pioneer to any extent A.L. :
Fifty travellers on that track send us their poems every
week ; try and get on to a less beaten path.... Win. L. ’:
But it’s no good appealing to Australian politicians
as men: they are incurable mendicants N.C.R. :
“True Love” isn’t a sonnet, but it’s fair doggerel....
Felix : Love-song hardly happy enough. Don’t recall
your previous efforts, but copy shows great promise
“for a boy of 16.” Devote a year to reading
good prose and poetry and don’t be too anxious
to see your own matter in print Bluemetal :
“ Bush Editors ” too obviously written from afar
off the subject. “Billy” doesn’t read real either
A.F.W. : The verses show some knowledge of the bush,
some faculty of “ seeing” ; but the poetic faculty is quite
lacking H.F.W.: To print anything about the Dove
of Peace just now would segm like brutal satire
Hamer: “At Interest” too artificial; “Accident”
possibly good enough Yarrum : Honey story too close
to something which has already appeared... J. Hardcastle :
Your song beginning
Arm, arm, ye brave, our mother needs
Our help beyond the sea
Yonder the noble Briton bleeds
To set the captive free.
Declined, with deep reverence for your power of sarcasm
in sending it to us... .B. : Not like the rev. gentleman
who is more like a sheep than a shepherd—resembles
nothing so much as a venerable wether who has been
missed in the mustering and not found until the following
shearing Trotter: You grow very indefinite.....
D. R. Over : We are only interested in such humor as is
fitted for publication Via : That assault case seems to
have been a toss-up. The girl may have told the truth,
but the jury—very properly—gave accused the benefit
of the doubt. Anyhow, she couldn’t have been convicted
of perjury... .M.A.C. : Has merit, but is an inconclusivs
story. Try again W.A.B. : Pretty, Pope-ish verse
saying nothing fresh... .Bandbox : Too spasmodic
W.H.P. : Re your yarn about “going the whole hog.’
We don’t go the whole hog. Send it to a religious paper.
....D.H.R. : “Tatt.” is now making an effort to get
round the law.. ..S.P. : Sorry, but “ Breaking Camp” is
still not up... .B. : Pretty—and that’s all Tin: Just
misses the train... .Q. Rix :“ An Echo ”is pleasant, but
we don’t want echoes Stockwhip : Your verse is hope-
less P.D. : Facts about Queensland all right, but they
are too serious to be jingled Weka : We’ve already
printed one set of verses on the subject. Thanks for
letter Anon: “Her Friend Jim” is a miserable sort
of yarn—though well worked out; subject kills it..:
Penlyria : Consignment of odes re the coronation of Ned
and the appointment of Fred Smith to the local police
force received with thanks Ajax : Mistake noticed
before H.B. (Hawthorn): Stories have gleams, but too
obviously fashioned on Yankee humor of a familiar type.
T.H.O. : Good, but not good enough K.E. : The
thought is too familiar ; work good Bandbox : Not up.
Stray: Not enough snap.... Alan M. : Might do fora
hoys’paper C.W.P. : “ My Dreaming ” too drowsy....
L.M.N. : Some good points, but you need a lot of practice
yet.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
A. J.: Thanks, but illustrated verses have less chance ;
either the verses or drawing being often unsuitable....
C.R. (Bris.): He undoubtedly possesses artistic ability
and will learn to draw well under proper tuition
S. C. 0.: One or two will serve... .Lindsay (N. Ad.) :
Sorry none usable C.W.P. : So far, you have sent
nothing of promise Chas. P. (G.) : It would be
pathetic Unavailable: Mack, G.E.C., G. Bar. .1.0.,
L. 8., W.N. \
A gathering of unemployed in Sydney
Domain lately resolved that, while the hard times
last, the courts should not fine men more than
two “ bob ” for getting drunk.
EMANCIPATION .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Custom’s chains she languished long,
The galley-slave of human story,
Now she has, like a noble song
Of Freedom, sprung to light and glory.
Her last of shackles flung aside,
With figure free in the arena
She stands—uncorseted, untied,
The Newest Woman—Nora Oreinal
All in the parks the statues stand—
Diana chaste, and Venus loving—
In stucco white, severely grand,
Yet all of them with charms unmoving.
But through the streets the maidens fine
Walk in their living beauty glowing,
Unfettered, free, with curves divine—
And now their curves, indeed, are flowing.
No more the corset’s ridge one sees
Upon the back of ev’ry bodice—
A sort of grim chevaux de f rise
Around the temple of each goddess.
No more sweet Woman, grown mature,
Looks like an overblown rose-blossom ;
And suffers pangs with smile demure,
And rests her chin upon her bosom.
This is the last and best of creeds
That Fashion ever shall discover—
The only stay a woman needs
It is the strong arm of a Lover.
CREEVE ROE.


ANOTHER O'SULLIVAN ITEM.
His latest “great scheme” is a Govt.
: ostrich-farm, to tbo started shortly., As
ostriches will swallow anything, Mr. i
; O’Sullivan will have no difficulty in A- A
'feeding them.
! ‘« Tope Leo
■granted an audience to ~
several Australians, and
[referred in the -course of
his remarks to the bravety : .p|
I shown by Australian troops in
[ the-South African war,” i
'Sow.typical Australians would have reciprocated :
. «If your ’Olinete will put on yer ’at you’ll come out^Wj^.
’ave one along o’’uS.”
Australia pacing thb Dawn (vpvlckrally); *' A
foundling home for the dead fcjds would have,
done you more honor than I—Fm only the
, monument of your conceit.”
|Tot*-—The small objects sees on the steps, o! the
if examined through a powerful microscope,
wiU be found to be htr. O’ Sullivan and a row of
dead infanta left there over-night
State Parliaments thoroughly ” reduced: how
'the scheme will work when they are brought
down fine—Say to two or three members or so,
AUSTRALIA FACING VARIOUS THINGS.


M4Y £>4Y PROCESSION
ANOTHER refusal.
in chorge of the May
SSSwSS «? “■»' •»*?”!£
Mayor of Melbourne to.request perm^
don to hold a procession f r om Burke and
'Wills statue to the
'on firevious occasions, met
in
Hf
l|o (lE.
Refer ”)ir<y \
zks s*l vA *«i }
jk iY]^c\j»r7^?
fa- wy.eH AHIV 1 r°,
t>)Vttei' (iiVor<e< f>) A^ Vt
cu.+ i)'Jb^ a, ' s )-
tfje \
otl ■
])*ve nu'T
\lt\ »n
Wilf A^ cK
yj y <■*»
fJ M vr *»
%t w2^f
" r . i] u " i
'
4 v
>°>o> ><« ■
'^00 ;
■ 9 #e 6 ey?.
-
Mr, YVaTSON Said the executive.
should have selected the flag and seal
instead of paying some naval gentlemeu,
‘who could nave no special qualification for
the task.
The PRIME MINISTER; 1 would not
(like to see the item cut down. 1 have spent
the money. (Laughter.)
Mr. WATSONi I see many objections to
j the flag selected.
An Hon. Members The flag selected is no
I bet ter than an ordinary house flag.
oj ifz
ordirj^ry
flags . V
hr T
failed (*> *
ft y> urge t coricernitjo
A]ie*i x \]o
-iiic t«r &2) >3*l,
fa % fa N
on V*s ~ ’ L<^s
fry . "7 -Aj^tVaJivr-.
some hard cases.
Three privates of the contingent— viz.. Pri-
vates Bird, Smith, and Grimes—have had the
misfortune to lose a leg apiece during their ser-
vice. For this they receive a pension of Is. 6d.
per dieip. Had they held a higher rank than
that of private, say, for instance, that they
had been sergeants, they would have got 3sJ 6d:
per diem, a sum which would havo kept them
from want. As it is, incapacitated from earn-
ing an active living, things will go hardly with
them unless one or other of the patriotic funds
pome® to their assistance—ns it surely might.
Old (CoriAttYvß^'jW
" hleVer rr)U7«d , old cWj), jj '
youVe
, *iow \
%. w**V> N
m^^ OWULT “
At
system which has heen 0 in “The,
Ara^/' C to a becomc a very grave one.
M‘ ¥ vi+f> a"
nov/ tejtnf\ v
’ %c
S - f
AN ASSORTMENT.


A. SAUNDERS
WATCHES, CLOCKS. JEWELLERY, & SILVERPLATE AT FREETRADE PRICES.
SAVE 25 TO 50 PER CENT. SHOWROOMS: 815 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
A. SAUNDERS.
4 O'CLOCK CAKE FORKS, Pure Silver-plate
on Hard White Metal, in Silk-lined Case, 20s.
Similar style, 12s 6d.
These will last your lifetime.
A. SAUNDEBS.
DINNEB CBUBT, 6 Bottles, with Shield, Pure
Silver-plate on "White Hard Metal.
A Useful and Serviceable Article, £2 10s.
Other styles, £2, £3, £4.
A. SAU.N DERS’ LATEST STYLE.
FRUIT or CAKE STAND,
Silver-plated Stand with Fancy Glass, 30s.
Similar Stand, 27s 6d.
A.. SAUNDERS.
ELOWER STAND, Silver-
plated Base, 8s 6d per pair.
Larger styles, 12s 6d, 15s 6d, 21s
Choice Table Appointments.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Swan PIN,
7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
05.—CANDLESTICK, Pure
Silver-plated, 8s 6d each.
Similar Designs. 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SOAP BOX, Silver-plated, Nicely
Chased and Embossed. 12s (id.
FREE TRADE PRICES.
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG CRUET, very neat, effective, 4 Cups
and Spoons, Pure Silver-plated on White
Nickel Silver, 20s. Other styles and
patterns, 255, 30s, 85s, £2, £2 10s.
HOT WATER KETTLE and STAND.
r 'an be used as a Teapot. Pure Silver-
plated on White Metal, Beautifully
, Chased and Ornamented, £2.
Embossed and Extra Chased, £2 10s.
Other Styles, £3, £3los.
Handsome and Useful Article.
A. SAUNDERS.
‘‘LADIES’ FRIEND,” Pure Solid Silver-
mounted, 18s 6d ; Smaller, 15s 6d.
A Nice Present.
A, SACJjSTDEES.
LUNCHING CRUET, 4 Bottles,
Silver-plated, 15s 6d. Very Pretty.
SPECTACLE
CHATELAINE
CASE
Solid Silver, 30s, £2.
Silver-plated, 12s 6d.
Send for list.
Other lines,
2s 6d, 4s 6d, 6s 6d,
10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Cut Glass Sterling Silver-
mounted
HAIRPIN HOLDER, ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
IN TREE DISH, makes two Dishes, pure Silver-
plated on White Nickel Silver, 40s.
Other styles, £2 10s to £6.
T A A. SAUNDERS.
JAM or BUTTER KNIVES,
Silver-plated, Nicely Chased,
2s, 2s Pd, 3s, 3s 6d, 4s 6d. .
A. SAUJNjDjuiS.
Gent’s TICKET or WALLET
CASE,
7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
TWELVE 4 O’CLOCK TEA SPOONS and TONGS, in Silk-lined
Case. Very Best Pure Silver-plated, 355. Similar, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
Six in Case and Tongs, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
CAKE KNIVES or FORKS, 20s, 255, 30s, £2. Latest London Rage.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
- : ’
fjm
Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH, in Silk-lined Case, as above, 30s.
Similar Styles, without case, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
4 O’CLOCK TEA SET, with Covers, Gilt inside, pure Silver-plated.
20 Years’ Guarantee, £2 10s ; worth £4 4s.
Other styles, £2, £B, £4.
LADIES,
KINDLY CALL AND
SEE OUR DISPLAY.
A. SAUNDERS.
CARD RECEIVER, Latest Style.
Pure Silver-plated and Ornamented, 20s. VERY CHOICE.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated on Hard
Nickel Silver, Beautifully Chased and Ornamented, 355.
Can be used as CAKE DISH or SALYER.
Similar styles, 21s, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s. A Useful Present.
This
<1
little
PIG
Mft
A. SAUNDERS.
Child’s SPOON, Solid Silver, Chased, 7s 6d. The "Very Latest and Newest Designs.
wmmm
cooPEa
A, SAUNDERS.
TEA INEUSEB, to make a Cnp of Tea, Silver-plated, 3s 6d and 4s 6d. Very Useful.
9
SUGAR SCUTTLE. Square,
Handsomely chased and finished,
pure Silver-plated, 21s.
A Nice Present.
Other styles, 255. 30s.
A. SAUSTDEBS.
FIELD and OPERA GLASSES,
First-class Lenses, Good Effect,
12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, SOs, £2,
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Sterling Silver CIGARETTE
CASE, SOVEREIGN PURSE, and
MATCH BOX combined, Handsomely
Chased, in Silk-lined Case, £2 10s.
Other styles, 80s, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDEES.
BTTTTEB DISH, White Glass, Pure
Silver-plated, 15s 6d: larger size, £l.
Other Designs, 255, 80s, £2.
mm
A. SAUNDERS.
Eirst-class Silver-plated CRUET,
as above, 21s.
■Atfcuumdety
rSNDOm.S»OH£V
m a
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER KNIEE and JAM SPOON,
in Silk-lined Case, the Very Best Silver-plate,
Nicely Chased, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Illustrated Price List.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALT CELLARS, 7s 6d, 8s 6d,
10s 6d, with Spoon.
A. SAUNDERS.
Sterling Silver-mounted Paris Panel PHOTO. FRAMES,
355, 40s, 50s each. '
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class 4-Bottle CRUET,
Silver-plated, 85s. Similar, 255, 80s.
a
as
A. SAUNDERS.
TOAST RACK, Pure Silver-plated,
in Every Style and Shape,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, a(K A Nice Present
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET. Pure Silver-plated, Hand-chased
and Embossed, as above, £4.
Similar patterns, 20s, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEAPOTS, very pretty and useful, Pure Silver-
plated, Hand Chased and Ornamented, 21s. Other
styles and patterns, l 7 s 6d, 20s, 255. 30s, £2, £2los.
A. SAUNDERS. , ..
Silver-plated HAIRPIN TRAY, Pierced and Engraved, &
USD
Pure Silver BOOK MARK, 2s 60.
A. SAUNDERS.
OAK BISCUIT,
Silver-plated, Fluted rims,
with enamelled inside, 20s ;
plain rims, 15s.
F\oral China same price.
A. SAUNDERS. ,
PUFF BOX, Pure Solid Silver, Pretty ana
Ornamental, 255.
Silver-plated on White Metal, 17s fad.
Glass Bottom and Pure Silver lop, /
10s, 15s, 20s, 255.
A, SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER and. SILVERSMITH
A BEAUTIFUL DISPLAY OF PRESENTS.
Mind, 815 GEORGE-STREET.
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY.


SHIRTS.
For Station and Oat-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalassk and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33J per Half-dozen, tree thro at//tout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement t'erms on AppiiaatiOn
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere,*
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney'
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
fgh
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for alI Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
~ . XL ~ . lnv 'gorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
fg
Dredging on the West Coast of southern M.L.
has improved wonderfully of late, and scrip of half-a-
dozen cos. has gone up with a bound. The Nelson Creek
dredge’s yield of 3050 z. for a week’s work, and the
Pactolus’ record yield of 113 oz. 13dwt. were mainly
responsible for the rise. Nelson Creek has a large area of
wash in sight, similar to that which it has been working
on, which is reckoned to be good for at least lOOoz. a
week for some time. In a year the yield of the coastal
dredges has increased nearly sixfold. In 1901 the yield
was 13530 z. 14dwt. 22gr. for 61 weeks, the greatest num-
ber of dredges operating in any one week being seven.
This year 7llCoz. 13dwt. sgr. were secured for 261 weeks,
largest number of dredges in work at once being 25.
* » * *
The West German and Belgian happy family of
zinc-producers, who for many years have regulated the
output, and, therefore, the price, are in danger. Last
year's United States’ output was 122,830 tons (of a total
of 498,950 tons) ; 20 years ago it was under 27,000 tons.
This development makes the price much more uncertain
than it has been, and doesn’t improve the outlook for
the Broken Hill zinc-industry.
• * • *
A certain colossal mining co. in the far North
built a colossal dam. Shortly after the completion of
this work there came 12in. of rain that completely filled
the dam. Just then some genius recollected that a
stone-breaker (cost, £150) lay at the bottom of the water.
To save the machine the whole of the water was run off,
and that dam has never been one-sixth full since. And
that co. has lost about £300,000 through want of water.
» * * »
In Rhodesia, after all, according to James
Quinn, a Maorilander, who has been mining there for
Borne years—“ Malaria is prevalent, and want of water
and the locusts are serious drawbacks. The mining is
not so profitable as about Johannesburg. It is uncertain,
and it’s not uncommon for a lead to ‘ pinch ’ suddenly,
leaving the expenditure on 60 stamps unremunerative at
that spot. The Johannesburg mines are certain, and
little or no variation is ever experienced in the yield. The
profitableness of a mine isassured after the surface return
is discovered, and its ‘ life ’ is reckoned within a year or
two. Most of the mines are calculated to last something
like 100 years.”
• * * *
There are some most extraordinary divergencies
in the estimates of Westralia’s available jarrah resources.
On the basis of present cutting, the official figures run up
to 300 years ; the unofficial go down to 11 or 12. If the
latter are within a mile of the truth, somebody ought to
be passed out. The matter is serious enough to demand
probing, anyhow.
* * • *
Hundreds of Vic. miners have been thrown
idle by the clause in the last mining Act making payment
of “subsist money ” compulsory. The Miners’ Associa-
tion, at its annual conference, favored abolition of “ sub-
sist,” and payment, instead, of half-contract price, for
such prospecting work as main-drives and cross-cuts.
But as “ such contract price ” is to be “ fixed by mutual
consent,” the owner wins all the way.
* * * *
The dynamite monopoly in the Transvaal having
ended, the Nobel Trust is now supplying blasting gelatine
at £3 7s. 6d. and gelignite at £2 10s. per case, as against
£4 17s. 6d. and £3 15s. No such reduction has been made
in Australia. In view of the large quantity of explosives
used in Australian mines, the Commonwealth ought to
establish an explosive-factory itself, or offer a substantial
bonus to induce the starting of explosives-factories to
compete with the combination which keeps up prices
against our mine-owners. It is an acknowledged fact
that the ruling prices of explosives show a profit of over
60 per cent.
* * * *
Writers in Sydney dailies suggest that the un-
employed difficulty might be solved by sending the men
to fossick for gold. These writers might be cured of their
delusion by being sent out fossicking under compulsion
to earn enough to provide themselves with writing-
material.
* * * *
N.S.W. Mines Department is getting a move
on the Mines Inspection Act, which nominally came into
force on Jan. 1. Under it every mine employing 10 men
or moro must have a manager, registered with the
Department, and thus known to the law ; and such man-
ager must be certificated. A person may get a certificate
if, at and since the passing of the Act, he has managed a
mine with not less than 20 men undergroimd ; if inside
five years he managed such a mine for 12 months ; if he
passes the examination of a Govt, board ; or if he has
approved certificates from outside the State. The Minis-
ter may, however, grant a permit dispensing with a .cer-
tificate ; but this applies only to the manager of a mine
employing more than 10 and less than 20 men. The Act
is being administered through the mining inspectors.
* v m m
The big mining township of Waihi (M.L.) has
just been proclaimed a borough. Waihi g.m. co., which
practically owns the place, was dead against the proposal,
foreseeing that it meant the loss of most of its influence
over its employees. Strenuous pressure was brought to
bear on Seddon to block the proclamation. But Dick,
even after the great Refusal, was too democratic to deny
the right of self-government to the hundreds of miners at
Waihi.
* • * .
The value of toe cyanide process to Charters
Towers is shown in the fact that most of the co.’s get
sufficient money by the sale of sand and slime to pay
their carting, crushing and store-bills. The cyanide
patent expires in a few months. Law-suits are pending
re royalty claimed on past operations, and both sides are
preparing for a big fight.
* * * .
White Cliffs reports the opal market “dead-
sick.” A start is to be shortly made with State-aided
deep-prospecting at a few selected sites.
• * * *
Jenkins, Vic. Govt, metallurgist, may be a Solon
as a theorist, but his report on the Balangum mine,
Stawell, indicates that he is an innocent in practical con-
siderations. Mine is owned solely by working-men, and
Mr. Jenkins considers it one of “ great promise.” Yet he
recommends the men to stop all stoping until a later
stage, to sink the shaft and open out crosscuts and levels
to ascertain how large the present run of gold-bearing ore
may be. He also advises that an assayer should be
appointed, “so that a full record of the development
work" can be kept.” If Jenkins had explained how
tucker was to be paid for while extensive exploratory
work was being done his report might have appeared less
ridiculous.
* • * *
Announced that H. L. Reid, of Coolgardie, has
displaced Mr. Claude Maitland as general manager of the
Zoroastrian. Co. was floated in ’97 and reconstructed in
1900. It owns a 10-head battery and intermittently
knocks out enough gold to keep a few poor devils of
miners out of the workhouse. As a div.-payer it is a holy
frost. The shaft was unfortunately sunk some 500 ft. in
the footwall of the reef, and hence nice long crosscuts
have to be negotiated before any gold-bearing stone is
reached. This.was a very thoughtful act for the benefit
of the wage-earning miner, but rough on investors.
• * * *
The export trade of some of the principal coun-
tries of the world for the last two years—exports of each
country’s own produce only reckoned, not “ re-exports ” :
1900. 1901. Increase.
India .. .. £68,246,000 £77,347,000 £9,101,000
Japan .. .. 19,651,000 25,288,000 5,637,000
Germany.. .. 230,569,000 233,850.000 3,281,000
Canada .. .. 34,929,200 38,084,500 3,155,300
France .. .. 164,348,000 166,647,000 2,299 000
Italy .. .. 53,530,000 54,981,000 1,451,000
Egypt .. 17,204,000' 16,140,000 1,064,000
Belgium .. .. 74,266,000 73,092,000 1,174,000
Austria .. .. 80,917,000 78,716,000 2,201,000
Spain .. .. 29,810,000 26,818,000 2,492,000
United States .. 302,710,0(50 299,601,000 3,109,000
Great Britain .. 291,192,000 280,499,000 10,693,000
• * * *
Davy hurst (W.A.) feebly tries to console
itself for the tragic death of its litter of oats by the very
faint hope that Nat. Harper, of the White Feather Main
Beefs, now on his way ’Ome to the coronation, will sue,
ceed in floating the Golden Pole, This property adjoins
the Westralia Waihi, on the N,W„ and had 600 tons of
alleged 2oz, stone at grass for at least 18 pionths. Writer
saw that alleged £5OOO worth of reek in Get., 1960, since
when at i per cent., owners have lost £3OO in in-
terest by not taking out the gold and investing
it. The ground is so hard that it has taken 18 months
to sink main shaft 200 ft. at a cost of nearly £2O
a foot, and ruined the reputation of a host of
contractors. Under circumstances it will be hard to
convince J. Bull about that £5OOO worth of gold on sur-
face. He will be apt to mistake the promoters for the
man who wrapped his one talent in an ancient rag and
buried it in his back yard, and hand the Golden Pole over
to Charlie Kaufmann as a sign for his barber’s shop 1
when he has shorn poor Whitaker Wright of his golden
Horseshoe, Hon. H. J. Saunders of his Shenton shekels,
and Fred Merton of his Reward.
r * * « *
The benefit of an institution like the M.L.
I übhc Trustee Office is being realised in places outside
Maoriland. A wealthy Englishman, lately deceased,
directed by will that his property should be'realised and
placed under the control of the M.L. Public Trustee. He
wrote that his action was prompted by the unreliability
of the private trustee and his tendency to disappear with
the cash.
At Poverty Point.
Sweet Nell of Old Drury ” was lucky to strike Hobart
just as Tattersall ” was being blown out by the Federal
Oovt. Though it was (and is) still possible to buy ss.
worth,of consultation at “ Tatts.” niost people knew it
not, and spent their weekly sweep-silver on Nellie
Stewart s show instead. “ It’s an ill wind,” etc.
The evolutions of the lady “dressed in light’’were
produced per biograph at Wellington (M.L.) and the
police promptly summoned the proprietor for “exhibiting
an immoral picture.” The magistrate said that from per-
sonal observation he didn’t think the exhibition was
worse than is seen in some stage-productions and
suggested that the prosecution be withdrawn—which was
done.
r -’-” 4 Melbourne par. in your “ Woman’s Letter ”
t ”? correc t ■ ll crediting a long-ago performance
ot Elijah at the Exhibition Building to the Philhar-
monic Society. It was Fred Cowan who conducted the
performance when Madame Patey took the contralto
part, and young Horace Stevens sang the “Youth’s”
music. Stevens did sing beautifully, as your par. stated.
Cowan and Madame Patey were so pleased with the boy’s
success that they gave him their photographs and their
musical blessing. But they could hardly have expected
him to grow into a basso Elijah some ten years later.
The London correspondent of the Australian Jewish
Herald accounts for at least some of the milk in a
cocoanut“ ‘ Ulysses,’ produced by Mr. Beerbohm Tree
at Her Majesty’s Theatre, has evidently come to stay’
several co-religionists, besides Mr. Tree, share in this
notable theatrical triumph—Lily Hanbury, Constance
u 1 ’ 1 "A'* -' Lawrence, and Oscar Asche—among others.
Stephen I hillips’ new play is certain to keep the boards
longer than his ‘ Herod.’ 1 Herod ’ was a stirring drama,
but it failed to draw. ‘ Ulysses ’is best summed up in
the words of the Times dramatic critic— ■* a noble effort
admirably conceived, and splendidly carried out.’ Lily
Hanbury, as Penelope, is most impressive. Miss Collier,
who has made wonderful strides in her profession, made
one of the hits of the play as Athene. She is exceedingly
beautiful, blending in her physiognomy, in a manner
almost Heinesque, elements Hebraic and Hellenic. Mr.
Oscar Asche, as the burly Antinous, is a sort of Hellenic
avatar of his wonderful impersonation of Freddy Mal-
donado, the Spanish Jew, in Pinero’s ‘ Iris.’ Altogether
Ulysses’is one of the finest productions ever seen in
London. And, m conclusion, it must frankly be allowed
that much of its success is due to Jewish talent, Jewish
enterprise, and Jewish originality.” Mrs. Potter lacked
the co-religionist element.
Marquis of Anglesey must be a choice specimen of
the decadmt peer. This gorgeous creature is another
Lord Yarmouth, plus ancestral estates and unlimited cash
—at present. Like Yarmouth, he loves to gambol behind
the footlights arrayed as a butterfly, and so forth but
whereas the courtesy-Earl who fluttered awhile in Aus-
tralia was an inexpensive giddy goat, Anglesey is hung
all over with diamonds when he takes the stage. Up to
now, the glittering legislator has confined himself to
private panto, performances at his castle in Wales, but
he seems bound to appear, in the ordinary course of
noble imbecility, at one of the theatres. Then there will
be a chance for a party of swell mobsmen to carry off
Anglesey and his £60,000 worth of jewels at one fell
swoop. The idea of a dozen bogus Gussies springing
from the stage-boxes to abduct the star performer is
melodramatic, but quite feasible. With the assistance
of a couple of accomplices among the stage-hands they
could get the painted peer away through a back-door,
knock him on the head, strip him of his valuables and
scatter before the audience got its second wind.
“ Via ” : Does Blandolt dream or Rip Van Winkle ?
Otherwise we would surely sie the melodrama enhanced
by Marconi’s invention and embellished by Dumont’s
flying machine. Imagine the breathless suspense of pit
and gods ” with the darkened silent stage, and then the
feeble ‘ click ” or tiny spark telling the comic man that
the villain still pursued her and that the ship was sinking in
mid-ocean. Bland, as the comic man, would be spellin"-
out the portentous symbols what time the hero flapped
across stage on a flying machine on his way to mid-ocean
to rescue the girl who had just sent the air-gram for
assistance.
Editor Smith wrote that the Montmorency Co wa^
“ starring ” round his (the Mulga) district. Of course the
comp, made it “ starving.”
Melbourne Philharmonic Society achieves its jubilee
this year. The grey-haired institution in its latest pros-
pectus states that it is now free of debt, but hopes for
heavy reinforcements of guinea subscribers to enable it
to buy the services of any expensive artists who may come
this way. Dolores was engaged by the Phil, for two per-
formances last year.
At a recent Adelaide performance of “ As You Like It ”
held in the open air, there was one unrehearsed effect
caused by the bull-ant, which walketh in the night
season. In the forest of Arden Old Adam is brought in
by Orlando to partake of the ducal cakes and ale, the
ancient being in a gasping and, apparently, dying condi-
tion. At his most exhausted moment Adam was seen to
be suddenly galvanised into fresh life, and to renew his
youth in a manner of speaking.. This sudden upleaplng
of Adam was the result of the bull-ant.
Easy to believe the statement that Harry Plimmer has
made a promising start in America. Plimmer is a good
actor as far as he goes, especially in the slimy, prepossess-
ing-scoundrel type of character. Australia, of yore
accepted calm, eye-glassed Edward Sass as an effective
actor, but Sass never did anything so finished as Plim-
mer’s performance of Counsellor Von Keller, the fellow
whom Magda refused to marry.
Melba now and then draws some £5OO a night in a tired
sort of way, and we are filled with envious astonishment.
But Jean De Reszke, who lately created so great a sensa-
tion in Paris by his interpretation of Wagner’s “Sieg-
fried,” is said to have just refused an offer for 40
representations at £110.) a night in America next winter !
Farcical comedy seems to excel the legitimate drama
in its Divorce Court results. Frivolity on the stage must
make for giddiness in private life. Bessie Rignold
daughter of “Bill” Falstaff Rignold, and niece of our
own Henry the Fifth (the only monarch whom Australia
has ever taken seriously) had a nisi recorded against her
by her husband the other week. The real name of the
petitioner was Russell, seemingly, but the programme
called him Guyton Heath at the time when Miss Bessie
made him her ruffled parents’ son-in-law, some 10 years
ago. Subsequently the happy pair returned to Australia
with Frank Thornton’s co., and played in “ The Stramre
Adventures of Miss Brown.” “
“D.0.L.”: Worked as an operator on Bendigo In-
dependent when Amy Castles’ pa was printer. “ Dumps ”
who had a thin tenor voice, used to “ let go ” sometimes
when the last forme had gone down. Editor, who used
to stay late and had no ear, stood it for a long time but
in exasperation at last wrote to his own paper protesting
against the night being made hideous by certain noises
“ alleged to be singing,” So Castles pbre left off singing
to break out again by deputy in the next generation
“ Edson ” : A
couple of pars in
“P.P.,” April 5,
declare Mrs. Pat
Campbell’s per-
formance of
Magda to be ut-
terly destructive
of any good
opinion intelli-
gent Australians
may have formed
of Nance O’Neil’s
performance.
One item says
Mrs. Pat’s Mag-
da, as compared
with Miss Nan-
ce’s, “ is a lesson
in the difference
between mind
and matte r.”
Quite true, pos-
sibly, but it
leaves both the
mind and the
matter to the
credit of the big
American. Mrs.
Pat Campbell’s
version of Suder-
mann’s heroine
represents Mag-
da as a highly
emotional young-
lady, and her
woes drew
quarts of tears
from romantic
cockney audi-
ences. The per-
formance was
most tender and
touching; it was
anything but
S u d e r m a n n’s
Magda, in fact.
Sudermann
stands promin-
ent in the revolt
against German
sentimentalism.
He has an ut-
ter, wholesome
contempt for the
slobbering ro-
manticism that
has made the
living woman so
rare in modern
fiction—on the
boards or be-
tween them—
and Magda is a
deliberately
drawn antithesis
to the timid,
tender, clinging
sinner depicted
b y Mrs. Pat
Campbell. To
make Magda
anything but
the strong,
gifted, brainy,
fleshy woman, at
war with the
conventions, is
to convert a fine,
philosophical
play into a
snivelling melo-
drama. Anyhow,
not Mrs. Pat
Campbell’s Mag-
da, but Duse’s,
knocked Europe
London includ-
ed, and Duse’s
Magda is the do-
minant woman
depicted by Nance O’Neil. At least the O’Neil had
the brains to understand her author. Few of her critics
—friendly or fierce —had. Of course, it is so seldom
necessary to understand a dramatist.
Musician Alfred Plumpton (long critic for Melb. Age),
recently deceased in London, was the son of a tenor
singer, who, in ’52, introduced to the public, at the Eagle
Tavern, City-road, London, the old-time popular ditty,
“ Pop Goes the Weazel.”
P. R. Dix, the variety king of M.L., was a shining light
and Sunday-school teacher in Auckland when he saw
money in music-halls, and, starting at Auckland,
developed through all the four centres, driving out or
buying out Fuller’s with a music-hall three degrees
superior in every respect. Now he holds the second-
largest hall in Christchurch, the chief Dunedin theatre,
and good places in Wellington and Auckland, on long
eases. He keeps four co’s. going at once, changing them
every week, and, by arrangement with Rickards, gets the
best imported talent for a month. He also endeavors to
make his performance, like Artemus Ward’s, a “ Grate
Moril Show.” There is an announcement on the pro-
grammes : “ Patrons are requested to notify the manage-
ment of anj' item on the programme they think
objectionable.” Dix waxes fat, and the magic-lantern
throws his shirt-front on the skirts of the serpentine
dancer along with Kings Edward and Seddon.
“ A little quarrel between Sara Bernhardt and dramatist
Mendfes, about the latter’s play, makes almost as interest-
ing reading as a breach-of-promise case. Sara’s first
letter begins ‘Dear and beloved poet’! In reply,
Mendbs commenced, ‘ Despotic Sovereign ’! Next billet
Bernhardt started ‘ Darling friend ’! At last Madame
came down to ‘ Friend,’ while the aggrieved dramatist
wrote ‘ Madame Sarah Bernhardt, Paris’! But Mendfes
had the last word —such a pretty little Frenchy last
word. He wrote : ‘ I shall put my poor drama into a
drawer. It will sleep there for a long time. In its little
coffin I shall sometimes place a few flowers. They will
be red roses to express my admiration for Sarah, and
violets to express my regret at her capriciousness.’ ”
“Flyman”: The revival of “Dorothy” at Her
Majesty’s (Melb.) recalls the first production of this opera
at the Princess’s some 14 years ago. The original
Dorothy in Australia was Leonora BAiham, who had
created the part in London. Her companion, Lydia
Hawthorn, was played by Aggie Kelton—vivacious,
yellow-haired Aggie of the dimpled smiles. Elton was
the Lurcher, and W. H. Woodfield and Federici (who
achieved the world’s greatest dramatic sensation by
dying, in the garb of Mephistopheles, as he went down
the trap with Faust at the same theatre) took the tenor
and baritone lover parts. There were three double
engagements at this time. In the cast was the tall,
ascetic Duncan Young, the husband of Leonora, Miss
Monmouth, the wife of poor Federici, whilst the con-
ductor on the first night was H. T. Harrison, the husband
of Aggie Kelton.
Genial L. J. Lohr has taken possession of his hotel down
at Anderson’s Inlet, and again the Wants, the long-felt
wan ts of that breezy district, are figuring in the Melbourne
dailies. Years ago, the local inhabitants knew they were
alive and held meeting in honor of the fact, but after
awhile they lapsed into slumber, only to be awakened by
Lohr. As soon as the new landlord found himself gazin°-
at wreckage on a rock-bound coast, his thoughts reverted
to a dear old basso friend who used to draw £5 a-week for
warbling “ Many brave hearts are asleep in the deep ”
Immediately the Principal Want of the Inlet swept across
his fo castle, so to speak. Vessels have been lost within
eyeshot of Lohr’s hotel, when telegraphic or 'phonic com-
munication between the Inlet and the nearest town
(Outtrim) might have brought assistance. The ghosts of
wasted mariners haunt the coast owing to its isolated
condition. Being a humanitarian, with an eye to busi-
ness, L. J. shook his neighbors up to a sense of their
awful responsibility, and now it seems probable that the
Inlet will be able to wire to Melbourne next time a catas-
trophe threatens.
, Al ” u ,s> n g is the moral attitude of Harry
Kicltardss Melbourne audiences towards Mdlle Lottv
who poses in glove-tight white silk, while an assistant
with a limelight apparatus floods her superb shape with
there is anyone in the audience bold enough to
lead the applause, the others follow suit warmly enough
but, if not, there is a diffident flutter of hands as the cur-
tain comes slowly down, and the people sit looking
timidly at one another, each horribly afraid of being
thought guilty of approving of this kind of thing unless
the others are guilty too. Yet Lotty shows nothing
but good form. *
G® or g e . Musgrove’s new comic-opera co. will start at
Melb. Princess’s May 24, unless something’ happens to
alter the arrangement. Anyway, Frank Thornton, who
lol.ows the Broughs, is only booked for a season of three
weeks at the Princess’s, terminating May 23rd.
WHAT’S IN A NAME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MELB.
S TIE mid her name was Kathleefl Cecilia
Victoria Theresa Marguerite,
And I thought the names were very stately,
And, as she spoke them, sweet.
So when we said “ Good Night! ” I kissed her
Once for each and every name,
Strictly only once for each of them,
Until the last one came,
Then I wished she had a thousand names,
Each one with a kiss to greet,
When unto me she whispered coyly,
“Give the rest to Marguerite!”
P.M.


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
A most useful Veterinary Book is attached
to every bottle of Gondy’s Fluid. This Book
contains, instructions for curing most of the
ailments and accidents affecting Horses,
Dogs, Sheep, Cattle and Poultry.
In this Book eminent Veterinary Sur-
goons recommend Gondy’s Fluid as a
certain cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
Broken Knees, Grease, Thrush and
Cracked Heels in Horses.—Scab, Foot
Pot, Fly, etc., in Sheep.—Hoove, Foul in
the Foot, Wounds and Sores in Cattle.
Condy’s Fluid is made by Gondy &
Mitcheil, Ltd., of 65, Goswell Poad,-
London, England, and is sold by all
Chemists and Stores. Beware of Colonial
substitutes. Insiston having Condy’s Fluid.
fgh
GrO TO TTFIT.T
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
hats. hats. hats.
BRISBA.KTE.
Mountcastle & Quarts
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Catalogue to B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Important Announcement to our City and Countr
Constituents. '
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted t»y
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the A uction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
To Mr. Sidney Simpson, Coachbuilder,
Newtown, Sydney.
F. G. Champion & Co., Batchers,
Bowen.
Dear Sir.—l am writing to acknowledge the receipt, in good order and condition, of the “ Gil-Gai.” It is just exactly what I required: runs
is wonderfully light and very strong, and is much admired by all who have seen it, and I feel confident that you will have other orders for both tht
Double-seated “ Gil-Gai ” from this district. —I am, faithfully yours, F. G. Champion.
beautifully,
> Single and
POLITICAL
POINTS
Clermont, one of the biggest of Q. State
electorates, was won by Laborite Lesina at a cost
of £l2 10s. for all expenses.
There are nine “ Sirs ” in the House of
Reps, and five in the Senate. Queensland con-
tributes no titled member to either body.
Despite Federal legislation, the recruiting
jjf-Kanakas for Queensland seems to go on merrily.
The otljer day the recruiting vessel, Lochiel,
brought 160 male recruits for Fairymead planta-
tion (Q.).
M‘Millafi, pleading in the Reps, for
leniency for traders who supply wrong invoices
or bills of lading under the tariff, was about the
shoddiest spectacle of this session. Kingston
might have replied more crushingly than he did.
Many correspondents rush to the Aus-
tralian dailies attesting the true-blue Jingoism of
all Lancashire. But not one of them explains how
it comes that Manchester Guardian, which
speaks to and for most of Lancashire, is strong
pro-Boer
Kidd, N.S.W. Minister for Holes and
Weeds, stated last week that he was opposed to
reduction of members and “could not see the
necessity for local government.” On the other
hand the public can’t see the necessity for Kidd,
so things are about level.
Arthur Griffith, M.L.A., addressed his
Lambton (N.S.W.) constituents the other night,
and had an almost unanimous vote of confidence,
despite the fact that the Jingo press has been pub-
lishing statements that he was in entire conflict
with his constituency on the war question.
The Ministry and the Opposition in S.A.
ran together in the most barefaoed way at the
general elections, and now the Tory Register is
suggesting a coalition of parties in the Assembly
with the avowed object of isolating the “Social-
ists,” as that paper (once itself a single-tax organ)
persists in christening the Labor members, with
intent to injure them.
JEALOUSY.
HE (suspiciously): “Why is it that you’ve worn
yer Sunday dress every day since the new
school-teacher came?”
Barrister-surveyor Conroy takes himself
very seriously. T’other night he told the House
of Reps, that as he had not had time to properly
consider the Franchise Bill (a measure of four
clauses) he would take no part in the discussion
on it and would throw the responsibility upon the
House.
Carpentaria, the Never Never N.Q. elec-
torate, shows somewhat how the people there
enthuse over the wonderful Cloncurry Railway
Syndicate. Forsyth—Philp’s brother-in-law and
big man in the Burns, Philp Co.—sneaked home
by eight votes over an unknown and Job-poor
Labor candidate.
As soon as N.S.W. Parliament meets, a
return should be demanded giving; the names and
salaries of all temporary and special appointments
made to the Public Service since the recess began.
It should also be made known in each case
whether the P.S. Board was consulted, and what
was the Board’s reply.
Those Adelaide workmen who foolishly
voted for the Snow tramway grab because they
were assured Snow’s tram way-building job would
supply them with work during the coming winter
are still awaiting the first sign of that work.
And the Snow crowd now cares for them about as
much as it does for any other squeezed orange.
Senator Pulsford, of N.S.W., on 2nd
May, harangued the Senate from 10.30 a.m. to 4
p.m., on the abstract virtues of Foreign-trade.
At 4 o’clock, when the remnant of weary Senators
rose to go home, they were broken right up by
Pulsford demanding the right to continue his
speech next day. Pulsford is easily first as the
dreariest of speakers, and his method of delivery
would drive a saint to drink.
Arthur Griffith, M.L.A., at Lambton :
Certainly a few Jingo papers, hysterical parsons, and
low-class aldermen had shrieked for the extermination of
the Boer people, and the late lamented patriots, Hand-
cock and Morant, had tried to give their demand a prac-
tical application, but he believed the free people of Aus-
tralia would be glad to see offered to the Boers honorable
terms of settlement such as Lord Elgin gave to the
French in Canada.
Launceston Examiner (22nd April) prints
an article about the Canadian province of
Quebec as an example of economy for Tas-
mania to follow. Quebec is one of the two
Canadian States which cling to the cherished, but
doddering, institution of an Upper House—hence
the selection. The examples of Ontario, New
Brunswick, Manitoba, British Columbia, Prince
Edward Island, and the N.W. Territories, where
they further economise by having only one House,
are too horrible to be mentioned in Tasmania.
If the O’Sullivan does not watch it, he,
even as G. Republican Dibbs, will live to have
the old Foulon “eat grass ” quoted about him.
“Go and fossick, men,”-is not better than “Eat
grass, my children.” Not one in a nundred of
the unemployed, either m town or country, could
make a living at fossicking. It is a game that
takes learning, and when learned will only yield
a bare living to patient, persevering, watchful
labor. Fossickers throughout Australia probably
do not average 10s. a week. It is the hope eternal,
the ever-alluring chance of the speck that keeps
them hearty and busy, and many a score of them
go under without finding it.
In levying a duty of ss. per ton on
imported wheat and Bs. 4d. a ton on imported
flour the British Government goes beyond
the limits of the last corn-law (abolished
in 1869) under which the duty on grain
was 4s. a ton. Britain never had much
luck with the abolition of her corn-laws.
In 1846 the old heavy duties were
abolished, leaving only the impost of
4s. and the price of wheat went up
next year by 15s. a quarter. In 1869
the last semblance of a duty (about 2|d.
per cwt.) vanished, and wheat, which
nad been selling at 10s. 4d. under the
duty rose to 10s. 6d. in 1870; to 11s.
lOd. in 1871; to 12s. sd. in 1872; to
13s. in 1873—in fact it wasn’t till 1883,
fourteen years after the duty was
abolished, that it became as cheap as it
had been under the duty. Flour was
14s. per cwt. in 1869, and the duty being
removed it went up to 18s. lOd. and
it also never reached the 14s. limit again
till 1883. When prices go up with the
duty taken off it is just possible that
by a reverse process they will go down
when it is put on again, and the Free-
trade man with' his Cheap Loaf Super-
stition will be “ left ” once more.
There is a mysterious objection on
the part of those working up the huge
irrigation ideas of the present against
any reference to the contents of Colonel
Home’s official report on water possi-
bilities in N.S.W. That gentleman,
whose Indian record made him a fore-
most authority on irrigation and water
conservation, spent over a year person-
ally studying N.S.W. watercourses. He
drew close on £3OOO for his services,
sent in his report to the Premier under
cover, and left Sydney without leave-
taking, political or social. That report
should be forthcoming at the confer-
ences W. J. Lyne is so industriously
engineering. Home, it is under-
stood, simply pooh-poohed water con-
servation on a large scale in N.S.W. or the
adjacent States, and declined to take seriously
the scheme now agitated. Col. Home may have
been wrong; but his work in India entitles his
opinions to careful consideration, and the ignoring
of him, as at present, carries a bad appearance.
One of the best points in Rhodes’ great
advertisement-will was the provision of a house
and an income for future Premiers of a Federated
S’Africa. Borrowing the system from England,
where all leading politicians are rich men, most
British settlements pay their politicians vilely;
result, they get the sort of politician they pay for.
If some Australian patriot were to endow the
Federal Premiership with £5OOO a year, or, better
still, with £2OOO a year and allow £5OO a year for
life to all ex-Premiers, and other political jobs
had a proportionate “rise” in wages, there might
be less mean dodgery in public life.
A CALAMITY.
NEWSBOY: “ Dreadful fire down the Beautiful
’Arbor, sir ! All the lovely hoardings de-
stroyed—only trees and flowers left.”
Nine-tenths of the financial reformers now
raging in N.S.W. have very rudimentary ideas
of finance. Their one idea is to cut down the
Assembly by, say, 50 members, and thus save
£15,000 a year “towards lightening the people’s
burdens.” The saving would lighten the public
burdens by just 2|d per inhabitant annually.
And the average “ reformer ” hasn’t one concrete
suggestion to offer beyond that 2|d.
The “ professional jealousy ” existing be-
tween Max Hirsch and Aunt Emma Pulsford—
boss Freetrade prophets in Vic. and N.S.W.
respectively—adds to the gaiety of the Federal
Parliament. Hirsch has one or two small and
impossible patches of democracy, just enough to
frighten the Argus off him ; Pulsford is the most
hardshell Tory in the continent. Each, there-
fore, sniffs disdainfully when the other is men-
tioned in his hearing.
As showing the cleavage between the
Jenkins Ministry and the S.A. Labor Party, it is
generally believed amongst politicians that the
new S.A. Parliament will witness a coalition
between Jenkins and Opposition leader Darling.
When Jenkins formed his Ministry, after Holder’s
resignation, he offered a portfolio to Von Doussa,
a virulent Tory Oppositionist and sponsor for the
Snow Tramway Grab, so there seems much ground
for this latest prophecy.
It is a remarkable circumstance that in
Tasmania and Victoria, which are not only the
most cheaply-governed States in Australasia, but
are also more economically-governed than the
United Kingdom, the retrenchment row is loud
and violent, while in the expensively-governed
States there is mostly silence. Further, the de-
mand for a reduction in the size of the State Par-
liament is loudest in Victoria, whose Parliament is
already, in proportion to population, the smallest
in the Commonwealth.
The Australian dictation of the terms on
which England may makepeace with the Boers is,
in principle, a really old piece of folly. Governor
Denison used to excite mirth by telling that
the original draft of the Tasmanian Constitution,
which went through his hands when Governor
there, contained clauses “allowing” the Queen to
declare war at her sweet will, but stipulating
that she should not conclude terms of peace with-
out consulting Tasmania. Denison considered
the position one suited for comic-opera.
It is a convenient practice for Queensland
Ministers, when cornered, to regret “that they
haven’t the necessary figures by them.” Surely
this must be the excuse of Railways Minister
Leahy when he told a reporter that there were
not many unemployed up North. Not many !
Why, his colleague Philp is bustling them off to
S’Africa in feverish haste, and in one small town
(Rockhampton) 349 have registered for employ-
ment within two months. Perhaps the gentleman
from Cork is used to large numbers (of rabbits)
and doesn’t regard a figure as large unless it runs
into millions.
The Western (N.S.W.) Land Commis-
sion is still “investigating.” But, as even the
S.M. Herald is game to say, the Commission
“has been, or ought to have been, expressly
chosen because its members were men who knew
much about the West, and who, therefore, would
be competent to deal with it” without “long
preliminary studies.” The Western wilderness,
by the way, is something that the Herald, edi-
torially, does know something about ; for T.
Heney, chief of that staff, served his apprentice-
ship at Wilcannia, and only left it when drought
and rabbits made life better worth living some-
where else.
The contempt into which Premier Barton
has fallen received a fine, large advertisement
when Forrest promised to cut down the
Defence Estimates by a certain sum. When
Forrest, Turner, Fysh, Lyne, Braddon, or King-
ston, in his capacity as State Premier, made such
a promise his Parliament generally accepted it as
sufficient. But Barton is Premier, and the House
has come to the conclusion that any promise that
is dependent on him is more likely to be broken
than not. So it carefully voted the reduction.
Barton said it was an insult—which it was. The
House was telling Barton, as distinctly as it knew
how, that it wouldn’t take his word for twopen-
n’orth of coppers.
The Federal Government is going on with
the appointment of a Royal Commission to in-
quire into the threatened withdrawal of the pearl-
shelling fleet from Thursday Island to Dutch
New Guinea, though it has been shown that the
threat was impudent bluff, and that no prepara-
tions have been made, or are likely to be made,
for establishing pearl-shelling headquarters in
Dutch territory.
Britain and its dependencies have sug-
gested subjects which they desire to have con-
sidered at the conference of Premiers in London.
The “future Government of South Africa ” is one
of those suggested by Seddon of Maoriland. Now,
how would that meddlesome and bounding person
have raged if the Premier of (say) Newfoundland
had proposed as a subject for discussion the
relations of Maoriland and Fiji, or the Maoriland
annexation of Cook Island ! Natal and Cape
Colony are both self-governing provinces, and
Seddon’s proposal to interfere in the affairs of
S’Africa generally, which must needs include
them, shows the size of the rat that is squeaking
in Richard’s head nowadays.
The Australian farmer has a poor crop
this" year, and prices are high. So Freetraders
Fuller and Sawers and Joe Cook, all of N.S.W.,
arose the other day to demand that the Federal
Parliament should admit grain free, and thus
bring down prices, so that the agriculturist would
get less money for what little crop he has. These
people claimed that they were doing this in the
poor farmer’s interests. And when Kingston
pointed out that any duty collected on N.S.W.
grain-imports would be returned to N.S.W.
Government, and it could distribute the amount
among distressed farmers, his logical suggestion
was received as kindly as if it was a slice of pork
offered to a distressed Jew.'
At the A.N.A. annual farce recently, at
Ballarat, the “ deliberations ” were marked by
more than the usual grotesquerie. One lamentable
specimen of a sveiled-bead wanted to know if the
Association had been officially informed of the
Anglo-Japanese Treaty ! This Society for putting
gabby young men into Parliament, threatens in time
to become a great danger to the purity of State
politics in Victoria. Consisting as it does of a
few pushful ones with much jaw, and a shallow,
callow rank-and-file, who blindly follow them, a
really smart man will, one of these days, for his
own ends, control it as a collie does a flock of
sheep. The Vic. Tammany is a miserable animal
yet, but the possibilities of him developing teeth
and claws are there all the time.
The Federal Government has “ taken
over ” British New Guinea, which lies out of our
continent and brings us a most awkward black
labor problem and two dangerous neighbours—
Germany and Holland. It has “taken over” a
lot of land in the disease-sodden New Hebrides.
But it can’t even spare a night to debate the
question of taking over the Northern Territory,
which is part of our own country. In the end
South Australia will have to hurry things up by
giving six months notice of its intention to
abandon the Territory, with its debts and all other
fixings, unless, within that period, the Federal
Parliament can tear itself away from its New
Hebrides land-jobs for long enough to consider
the offer made to it and give a definite answer of
some kind.
Ex-Pretnier Braddon persists in sitting as
chairman of the Federal Elections and Qualifica-
tions Committee, although he finds himself strenu-
ously -objected to, and although he necessarily
appears as a strong partizan in the dispute White-
iaw v. Hartnoll, M.H.R., for a Tasmanian seat.
Braddon barracked for Hartnoll throughout the
election, and said of Whitelaw, the Labor candi-
date, that he’d “ rather see a pro-Boer hanged
than returned to Parliament ” —and yet Braddon
insists that he has no bias now that he is called
upon to say whether a pro-Boer shall go to Parlia-
ment or go hang. Writer is reminded of the Ben-
digo juryman who was accused of bias, and when
questioned, said : “ I haven’t a bit of bias about
me, but that won’t prevent me gettin’ this
cove hanged if I possibly can.”
Josiah Symon, by way of peroratifril to
his speech in which he called on the Senate to
throw the tariff overboard and let revenue and
local industries take their chance, urged the
people to have “faith in faith in the
country, faith in its abundant resources,” and to
make a great splash and go ahead. The Bulletin
takes this opportunity to bring itself under Josh
Symon’s notice as the paper above all others that
has faith : It has faith in Australians ability to
manufacture practically everything it wants, to
pay for all its public works out of revenue, to do
without crawling to the British capitalist for
loans, and to payoff its debts and stand by its own
resources —if only its politicians would allow it to
do so. Symon, whirling his wig in disorderly
generalities round his head, had better define his
faith and if it is a better one than that, The
Bulletin will join him and become an adherent.
The generally accepted explanation in
Maoriland of Premier Seddon’s bloodthirsty
harangue to the Maoris at Papawai is that the
triennial elections are to come off in December.
More than once the life of the Seddon Govt, was
saved in last Parliament by the votes of the
Maori members. Of the four Maori reps., three
support the Government at all costs, as long as
Seddon will keep certain Land Bills on the order-
paper, and the one who sits on the Opposition
benches simply winks his other eye. Before his
departure for the Coronation, Seddon visited
pretty nearly every constituency, ostensibly to say
good-bye, but really to “rig” things for Decem-
ber. At electioneering Bun Tuck is a perfect
genius, and he doesn’t even miss a chance while
absent from the country. During the Jubilee
trip in ’97 he called in to see the Pope, and patted
his Holiness on the back when he returned. The
Bulletin is curious to learn whether he now
intends to honor Sb. Peter’s with a second call,
and whether he will sing the “Wearin’ of the
Green” at Dublin Castle.


VIOLINS
AT
PALING’S.
If you require an instrument with
a fine tone quality, and high grade
finish, you should ask to see our
“ Barzoni ” Violins.
We do not claim that they are
“ Strad.’s ” or “ Amati’s,” nor do
we say that they are nearly aa
good as these celebrated instru-
ments, but they are good, honest
Violins at a very moderate cost.
BANJOS.
We carry a stock of Banjos that
cannot be surpassed in Australia.
America’s best make. Handsome
in appearance, and built to
“ stand.” Price is also consistent
with quality.
GUITARS.
There is a growing demand for
these instruments. We stock
genuine Italian Guitars of the
finest make, also the celebrated
Lyon and Healy “Washburns.”
Come and compare them side by
side.
MANDOLINS.
A large selection to choose from
at all prices. Easy to learn, the
finger frets practically “ making
the notes ” for you.
All other musical instruments stocked.
Catalogues Free. Easy Terms.
PIANOS BY ALL THE BEST MAKER®
W. H. PALING & 60.,
LIMITED,
338 George Street,
Sydney.
MUSICAL “AT HOMES”
are becoming very fashionable
and popular. It is a
pleasant way to spend an
afternoon.
Possibly some of our best
Pianists and Vocalists
entertain your friends.
Look to your Piano and
see that it is nicely in tune;
if not it is discouraging to
the artist.
If out of tune, write
Paling’s; they will send you
a reliable Tuner, who will
attend to your instrument
in a workmanlike way.
You may think your pre-
sent Piano hardly good
enough for a “ Musical at
home.” Paling’s will value
it for you free of cost, and
allow you full value in
exchange for a new one.
Whether you require a
new Piano, or merely a
tuning, send to us, and you
will be thoroughly satisfied.
W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd.
338 George Street,
Sydney.
Every Good Building
needs a foundation stone—
everybody knows that.
It is just the same with any
good business. The foundation
stone of Paling’s business was
laid in 1853, and from that
stone we have reared up a
business in Pianos and Organs
that we are very proud of.
This we could not have ac<
complished unless we had the
support of the Musical Public.
We thank them for that sup-
port.
The Musical Public have
helped to make Paling’s the
leading and largest Music
Store in these States, and they
can always depend on Paling’s
supplying them with the best
Pianos and Organs that can
be imported.
STEINWAY, BRINSMEAD,
LIPP, VICTOR, and BELLING
PIANOS are THE BEST and
Cheapest in their respective grades.
This remark applies also to ESTEY
ORGANS.
If you want any information on Pianos or
Organs, call or write to us ; we will
gladly answer.
Catalogues are Post Free.
W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd,
338 George Street,
Sydney.
PROGRESSIVE
THOUGHT.
There is progressive thought in our
business; if it were not so we should
be “standing still” and our business
relations with our many Musical
Friends would be on the decline.
PROGRESSIVE
THOUGHT
is as necessary in business as to the
individual. We endeavour by careful
and constant study to bring our
PIANOS and ORGANS to the High-
est State of Perfection without entailing
upon the buyer any Extra Cost.
PROGRESSIVE
THOUGHT
has placed us in the proud position of
being the Leading and Largest Piano
and Organ Warehouse in these States.
Have we had the pleasure of your
custom ? If not, we should be pleased
to quote you for any Musical Instru-
ment you may require.
All Catalogues are yours for thb
ASKING.
Any INFORMATION WANTED GLADLY
REPLIED TO.
W. H. PALING & e©„
LIMITED,
338 Georg'e Street,
Sydney.
W. H. PALINC & CO., Limited, 338 George-st.,
Sydney.
BRISBANE,
NEWCASTLE.
fh
Koh-i-Noor
Copper-
Gilded
letters.
For Signs and
Shop-Fronts.
Absolutely
Permanent.
5 10 12 15 20in
2/3 4/6 6/9 7/10 12/4
per letter.
Great reduced prices
for Koh-i-noor letters
Sole Agents:
J. Leigh Jones & Co.
509 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
KIDNEY TROUBLES
AND
MALARIAL FEVER
CURED BY
VITADATIO
Warwick, Queensland, May 28, 1901.
Sir, —Doubtless you will be glad to receive another
testimony to the efficacy of your valuable remedy,
VITADATIO.
About 12 months ago I went to the Ebagoolah Gold-
fields, and thence to New Guinea, full of health and hope,
but it was not long before I became a victim to that
fearful climate, which completelyundermined my health.
I was treated in Northern Queensland in two hospitals
without success, finally and with difficulty that would
take too long to detail, I reached Brisbane when I secured
your remedy, which I am glad to say at once produced
a magical effect and ultimately restored me to health and
vigor.
I am delighted to be able to write thus, and would
suggest that you publish this in the papers circulating in
New Guinea where I am so well known.
lam not a doctor, but I believe my trouble was a
severe disorder of the Kidneys caused by and attended
with malarial fever.—Yours truly,
(signed) ANDREW JAMIESON.
To S. A. Palmer, Vitadatio, 28/5/1901.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials
AUSTRALIAN . . .
STAMPS
Highest Cash Prices Paid
to any amount for
Old or Rare Stamps,
Used or Unused.
The First
Australian Stamp.
m
M
im
m
For Sale—The Largest Stock of STAMPS, ALBUMS, etc.
in the Southern Hemisphere.
SMYTH & NIGOLLE, 14 Hunter-st., Sydney
One excuse offered for the Bill to provide
Lord Hopetoun with an extra annual allowance
of £BOOO was the statement that he spent nearly
£lO,OOO last year in entertaining the Jook o’ York.
All things considered, this is an absurdly dis-
honest excuse. The Jook’s visit was practically
in the contract which Hopetoun undertook when
he accepted his billet of Gov.-General. And,
anyway, it was not more costly than any other
such entertaining that would naturally fall to an
ex-Lord-Chamberlain, like Hopetoun, once in a
way if he were established in Britain, instead of
here. A British “toff” gets no compensation
from the Government when he suffers the expen-
sive honor of a visit from the monarch or any
member of the monarch’s family. These things
are all in the game. Persons “moving in Court
society ” have to pay for their distinction.
Hopetoun should stand the racket like the rest of
them—though the Labor Party in the Federal
Parliament doesn’t seem to think so.
The little brown man from Japan has been
having a very good time in Melbourne. As re-
presenting “our new ally,” the officers of the
Japanese war-ship have been feted, flattered, and
fondled, and the men have been cheered in the
streets and liquored-up in the bars. It is noted
that the Jap. takes very kindly to the booze of
the Occident, and is anything but a meek little
stranger when filled with gin, his favorite tipple.
Under the banal influence of old Dutch, he wants
a camel’s share of the track, and develops a sullen
amativeness that gets him hurt. A Jap. tar
stupidly hugged and kissed a substantial matron
coming out of the Theatre Royal on Wednesday
night of last week, and was promptly floored and
walloped by the insulted lady herself, while her
husband kept the crowd back, saying composedly:
“ Lave him to her ! ” “ Divil take him ! ” gasped
woman as they led her assailant away
—“ I ain’t bin kissed these twenty years ! ”
NEURALGIA IS RESPONSIBLE . . .
11 for a great number of the careworn
faces so frequently met with both
in the city and country. All
neuralgic pains and headaches can
be speedily removed by taking
Newman’S SPECIAL neuralgia POWDER, 2/-
By post, 2/2.
NEWMAN, CHEMIST, 82 King-street, Sydney.
TO HORSE-MASTERS.
NOW READY.
Thb Highly Instructivb Book,
“AUSTRALIAN HORSES FROM
PADDOCK TO PARK ”
By D. McGILLIVRAY
(The Celebrated Australian Horse Taming, Biding,
and Driving Expert).
A TREATISE on the Scientific Handling, Breaking,
Educating, and the General Management of Horses,
teaching the Author’s wonderful methods of completely
subduing the most savage animals living: in a few
minutes, with upwards of 105 splendid illustrations
obtained by instantaneous photography whilst he was
at work upon the wild and raw material.
Obtainable from the following Agents :
Sydney—Messrs. Wm. Brooks & Co. Ltd., 17
Castlereagh-street.
Brisbane—Messrs. Wm. Brooks & Co. Ltd.
Gunnedah, N.S.W. — Messrs. Bacon & Co.
Price, Its.—post free.
20£ discount Atllowed on large orders.
PIRECT TO YOU
m
'■
m
m
a m ;
BY
POST
FROM
CALLAGHAN
AND
SON.
Men’s French Calf,
to Button, Pointed
or Medium Toe, Fine
Made-to-order Appear-
ance - - Price 23/6
The same boot in Tan at the same price.
Delivered (prepaid) to any address in
the Commonwealth upon receipt of
24/6 per pair. (The extra 1/ - is for Delivery.)
We want to convince all sceptics that all the Style,
Fit, Elegance, and Durability that seems possible
to be put into a Boot
IS PUT INTO THE CALLAGHAN BOOT.
The trial of ONE PAIR will convince you this is true. If you are not convenient
to our premises, our perfectly systematised Mail Order Department can fit you to
your complete satisfaction, or your money refunded. State size of Boot Worn,
and whether Pointed or Medium Shape Toe is required.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.


Banking. Public Companies, ftc.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
1?
&
BIXiIiS
DISCOUNTED-
3xr.s„'w.
fflont deplete Bo., Ltd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
•74. CASTLEEEAGH ST., 74
' SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
'-tj IE-
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. O. J. Robbrtb,
C.M.0., M.L.C. ; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident. Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,491,989.
Policies issued 85,372— assuring £26,085,346.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,576,850.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
file Bank of j|orth Queensland
U M ITl‘H'.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
T P Caski (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - £7o°.°oo
Capital Paid-up £109,000
Tlje TrOstees, EwcOtorS,
AND
Agsi)CV Conjpaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
£150,000
£90,000
£150,000 0 0
0 0
0 0
£BB5B 7 3
5 3
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE LIABILITY
RESERVE FUND (used in Company s
business) • _ ,
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1901 16,388,976
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman : John Grice, Esq. ,
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FItEDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
The
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED.
hapttAT PAID-UP £423,000
pfsflvE LI ABILITY'OF SHAREHOLDERS. 209,581
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 54,000
£686,581
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, F.dwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr W B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHUROH LANE.
Bank^of^New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. •• 2, V^’nnn
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital
£2,500,000
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. of" the Colonies.
Directors Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, James Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Wellington : H. Beauchamp, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Cltne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlank ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
F “T“; ALLEN. «
the savings bank in victoria
T HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Queensland Smelting Qompg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
13UYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Jj Conner Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. Fo. tariff, ’apply to GEO. V S DUNN Manager
for Australasia, Aldersiiot, Queensland, oi to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street. Melbourne.
n
H
A
NICE PRESENT.
The New Combination PIN-
CUSHION, THIMBLE & REEL
HOLDER, nickel plated, plush
top. Clamps on to any table
bv' means of a spring. Price,
only 25.; post free.
Star Novelty Company,
229-231 Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
„ .TER’S DETECTIVES.” Acknowledged by
S IK:;"- KI&SS talent 6 i n't he
"r Na 1 BASINGHALL STREET, LONDON,
ENGLAND. Cables, “ Distance,” London.
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Sat., May IC, 12 Noon.
-Buninyong, Tues., May 13, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, May 17, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., May 13, 6 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong, Tues., May 13, 5 p.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKUAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Saturday, May 10, 3 p.m.
Konoowarra, Tues., May 13, 5 pan.
Peregrine, Saturday, May 17, 3 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Saturday, May 10, 3 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, May 17, 3 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot of King-street.
WHITE STAR LINE
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
PERSIC, on or about 23rd MAY.
RUNIC, MEDIC, AFRIC, and SUEVIC
to follow.
FARES —Capetown .. .. £l3 13 0 to £2l 0 0
London .. .. 16 3 5 to 24 5 1
New York, &c. .. 22 511 to 30 7 7
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetab’es, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
ffuddart, Parker g go’s tine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOE A I IT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORI'S.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
jA. 3XT X 3
Jfe.
LINS
via
San Francisco,
California.
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS,
SIERRA
SONOMA
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P.
Length, 425 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European Centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., ITT).
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
TIME TABLE
THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
fg
—THE-
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
Society.
(ESTABLISHED 1879.)
THE MOST LIBERAL AND PROGRESSIVE
LIFE OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA.
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and Castlereagh
Streets, Sydney.
VICTORIAN BRANCH :
Baring Chambers, Market Street, Melbourne.
Wm. Bennett, Manager.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH :
36 and 38 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
JAS. GLISSAN, Resident Secretary.
GEO. CROWLEY, General Manager.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. - 1,270,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. .. .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,270,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Chas. K. Mackellar, M.L.0., President.
Senator Jambs Thomas Walker.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLaurin, M.L.O.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
Auditors:
A. G. Milson, Esq. J. S. Harrison, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
Witli Branches in all tlie Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business. . .
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
DAVID BRAHAM’ICO.
TAILOKS,
73 & 75 King St., SYDNEY.
SPECIALITIES:
Dress Suits,
Dining Coats ,
Opera, Ore reoats,
I'rock Suits ,
Chesterfields,
Ladies’ Costumes,
SOLE AGENTS IN N S W. FOR
/ERTEX CELLULAR DRESS SHIRTS
AND UNDERWEAR.
- GENTS. ~
WRIT 17 FOR MY ILT.USTRATED BOOK CON-
CERNING YOURSELVES Post Free, 3 Stamps.
Address— 147 Collins St., Melb;
HXT. ID. L.
(NORD-DIIUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
Interstate First Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN, Uch JUNE,
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
IN CONNECTION WITH
CANADIAN-PACIFIC RAILWAY.
THE. . .
“ALL-RED”
ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL:
May 19, June 16, July 14.
£6O to Rocky Mountains of America
and Return includes Railway Sleeping
and Dining Cars and Hotel Expenses
in America.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing: Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
ORNAMCNTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers &. Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
fW" Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
CRAIG & A.ITKB3NT,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Allinga,
Friday, May 9.
S.S. Wollowra
(from Melbourne),
Tuesday, May 13.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns
S.S. Adelaide,
Friday, May 9.
Rest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. .and Howard Smith Co.,
Ld. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YU ILL. & CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Coy Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE -Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Maokay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKE TOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via BrU
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, AK» FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenger A ccoinmodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO, Ltd., Agents, lu Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
AND
o.
COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL
STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON-Single, £3B to £/7
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific,
Messageries Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling: at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including: table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meeb
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates in con-
junction with the Canadian-Pacific and other Steamship
Companies.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
■ ■
. . SMOKE
THE
GBD
INSIST
on having this Brand
and no other.
AGENTS
JULIUS HOLD SCHMIDTS, CO.
231 Clarence Street, Sydney*


TfiEimiyiiDyFiusTmiitM.
THE EIGHTEENTH REPORT
OF
The Directors of the National Bank of Australasia Limited.
1. The Balance-sheet of the bank as on 31st March last, and the Profit and Loss Account for the half-year which
then terminated, as now submitted to the shareholders. J
2. The net profit, after deducting expenses of management and the other items specified in the
Profit and Loss Account amounted to 327 q 7
Balance from previous half-year .. .. ” ** ” i3’i92 5 2
£51,519 11 9
.. .. 3,933 17 3
•• * £47,585 14 6
Which it is proposed to appropriate as follows :
Transfer to reserve fund account (making £65,000) QOO 0 0
Dividend at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum on preference shares .. \\ ** 7’644 10 0
Dividend at the rate of 3h per cent, per annum on ordinaiy shares 20*867 14 0
Carry forward " " " 10 6
Deduct note and income taxes in Australia and Great Britain
Leaving available ..
£47,585 14 6
3._ During the half-year, branches have been opened at Beeac, in Victoria ; at Katanning, Mertondale and
agencies at Narrogm and Wagin, in Western Australia; and the branches at Oreswick (Victoria) and Malcolm
(Western Australia) have been closed. '
... , 4 - T , he Ordinary General Meeting will be held at the Equitable-buildings, 320 Oollins-street, Melbourne on
Wednesday, 7th May, at noon. *
5 - The shareholders will be called on to elect two directors on that occasion, in lieu of John Grice, Esq and
t woaiiditors 10 "* ESq ' ’ Wh ° retU ' e by rotafcion - There are no other candidates. They will be required to appoint
By order of the Board of Directors.
The National Bank of Australasia Limited,
Head Office, Melbourne, 24th April, 1902.
JOHN G. ADDISON, Chief Manager.
BALANCE
Dr.
SHEET OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
For the Half-year Ending 31st March, 1902.
(Including London Office to 22nd February, 1902, and Western Cr.
Australian Branches to 17th March, 1902.)
CAPITAL and LIABILITIES.
To proprietors’ capital—
-30,578 preference
shares, paid in money
to £lO per share,
£305,780 ; 238,488 or-
dinary shares paid up
to £5 per share,
£1,192,440 .. ..£1,498,220 0 0
~ Reserve fund account 60,000 0 0
~ Profit and loss account 47,585 14 6
• £1,605,805 14 6
„ Notes in circulation.. £325,914 2 6
~ Bills in circulation .. 1,365,090 18 1
To Government Deposits—
Not bearing interest,
£40,075/2/9 ; bearing
interest, £338,616
11/4 385,691 14 1
To other deposits—
Not bearing interest,
£2,618,979/1/1 ;
bearing interest,
£3,254)381/17/8 ..- 5,873,360 18 9
~ Interest accrued and
rebate on current bills 59,720 0 2
„ Balances due to other
Banks .. u .. 60,040 6, 1
8,069,817 19 8
£9,675,623 14 2
To contingent liability, as per contra.
335,427 16 0
ASSETS.
By coin, bullion, and
cash at bankers ..£1,245,013 0 1
„By Government,
municipal and other
public stocks, deben-
tures, and funds .. 674,334 19 1
„ bills and remittances
in transitu .. .. 1,160,403 13 3
„ notes and bills of other
banks 7,870 2 9
~ balances due from
other banks .. .. 40,959 11 7
„ duty stamps .. .. 2,980 16 6
, , . £3,132,162 3 5
„ real estate, consisting of bank premises,
at Cost to the Bank 451,783 10 10
t> other real estate at valuation .. .. 395,370 3 1
» bills discounted and other advances,
exclusive of provision for bad and
doubtful debts 5,696,307 16 10
£9,675,623 14 2
„ liability of the old bank, in the form of
a guarantee of certain shire and muni-
cipal debentures (Victoria) sold in
London, and which are being duly
provided for by sinking funds in terms
of the Act authorising their issue,
£112,600 ; and liabilities of customers
and others on letters of credit and
drafts, £222,827 165.; as per contra .. £335 427 16 0
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To expenses at head office, 112 branches,
and 18 agencies £58,414 10 8
To note and income taxes 3,933 17 3
Balance 47,585 14 6
£109,934 2 5
By Balance brought forward .. .. £l3 192 5 2
By gross profits, including recoveries, less
rebate on bills current, interest paid and
accrued on deposits, repairs to premises,
and rent 96,741 17 3
£109,934 2 5
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To balance £60,000 0 0
£60,000 0 0
By balance last half-year .. .. >4 £55 goo 0 0
By transfer from profit and loss .. .. s*ooo 0 0
£60,000 0 0
JOHN G. ADDISON , Chief Manager.
The customary Auditors’ Report and the Directors’ Statements to
comply with the Companies Act 1806 appear on the official report.
TRADE
FOX Bros. & Co., Ltd., warn the public that their Trade Mark consists
ONL Y OF THE WORD FOX
which is a guarantee of soundness of material and quality of dye of all
Worsted Coatings, Serges $ Tweeds
on which it is stamped.
As the result of many years of experience . . .
FOX’S PURE INDSGO DYE
is recognised as the best in the market. All FOX’S Standard Cloths are
stamped every two yards on the back—
FOX
PURE INDIGO
and without this stamp are npt ge.iuine. These celebrated serges can be
obtained from the leading Tailors and Drapers throughout the Colonies.
FOX BROS & Co., Ltd., WELLINGTON, SOlVlEßSElTlEiigland!
The Roman
Hair
Restorer
Produces Brown and Black Hair.
Price 1/6 ; by post, 2/3.
An inexpensive and
certain preparation for
renewing and restoring
"to its original color the
hair of the head, beard
and whiskers.
Largely used by the Roman ladies for preserving their
magnificent tresses. Nourishes the roots and removes
dandruff ; increases the quantity, and renders it glossy
and supple ; does not stain the skin nor soil the linen, if
your hair is falling off or turning grey, use this.
CAUTION. —This being different from most prepara-
tions, other kinds should be refused.
JAMES BRINSMEAD and GO., Chemists, ST. KILDA.
Alii Chemists sell it.
RUPTURE «
without
operation or pain,
hgf
JThrov (txvAj
yout a'nwfc.
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The on i v
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
SURGEON LANGSTON,
, M R C S., ENG.,
Cor Russfll & Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
Registered.
hfg
Registered.
THE BEST MEDICINE EVER MADE.
FISHER AND COMPANY’S
PHOSPHERINE
A most famous TONIC for Delicate
Gentlemen, Ladies, and Children. This
preparation has been a boon and bless-
ing to the public for nearly 20 years.
Removes Headaches, Strengthens the
Nerves, Cures Indigestion, Rh eumatism,
Drain Fag, and Depression.
All Chemists, One Shilling 1 per bottle. Pour
times the quantity, 2s. 6d.
Phiirmacy, 337 Georg e-St,
Post Free,
Obtainable at Messrs. Pattinson and Co., Ltd., City and Suburbs ; Messrs.
Washingiion H. Soul and Co., Anthony Hordern and Sons, and Everywhere, One
Shilling per Bottle.
Wholesale from Messrs. Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian Drug Company
9s. per dozen; large special size, 245. per dozen.
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
(incorporated BY royal CHARTER, 1835.)
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND (of which £500,000 is invested in 2} percent. Consols at 90, the remainder
being used m the business of the Bank)
RESERVE LIABILITY OF PROPRIETORS UNDER THE CHARTER \ '
£1,600,000
995,000
1,600,000
£4,195,000
SIXTY-EIGHTS ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF THE RANK OF
A USTRALASIA, with the accounts for the Half-Year to 14th October, 1901, presented
to the Proprietors at the Annual General Meeting, held on Thursday, 97th March, 19+9,
at one o’clock.
report.
THE Directors submit to the proprietors the Balance-Sheet as at 14th October last, with the Profit Account for the
half-year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills current, for British and Colonialrites TnS J
for all b d and doubtful debts, the net profit for the half-year amounted to £l4O 077 0s 8d ® d C ’ d
From this sum, increased by £14,159 15s. 7d. brought forward from the previous half-vear the
appropriated £40,000 to the Reserve Fund, and £20,000 in reduction of the cost of bank premises o leaving a oil
disposable balance of £94,237 ss. 3d., of which the Dividend declared will absorb £BO 000 and fheTe wHI thin 6
£14,237 ss. 3d. to be carried forward to next account. ’ ’ and there wIH then remain
Since the date of the last report a branch of the Bank has been opened at Lennonville, in Western Australia
The Dividend declared is at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum, or £2 p r share for the half-veaV and will
payable, free of income-tax, in London and in the Colonies, on the 29th imt P y ’ and Wlll be
4 Threadneedle-street, London, 17th March, 1902.
C. W. FREMANTLE, Chairman.
PROFIT ACCOUNT from APRIL
15, 1901, to OCTOBER 14,
Undivided Profit, April 15, ..
Less : Dividend, October, 1901
.. £94,159 15 7
.. 80,000 0 0
Profit for the half-year to October 14, 1901, after deducting rebate on bills current at
balance date (£8,432 9s. 2d.), and making provision for all bad and doubtful debts . £274 061 15
Less : ’
1. Charges of Managem"nt—
Colonial-
Salaries and allowances to the colonial staff, including the superin-
tendent s department and 158 branches and agencies .. .. £BO 779 5 7
General Expenses, including r. nt, repairs, stationary, travelling, &"c. 22*325 12 2
London—
Salaries 8,171. 4 0
General Expenses 2 679 7 4
£14,159 15 7
1
I. Rate and Taxes—
Colonial
London ..
Total amount of unappropriated profit
from which deduct—
For transfer to Reserve Fund
For reduction in cost of bank prenvses
£113,955 9 1
£11,137 6 3
8,391 10 1
20,028 16 4
133,984 5 5
140,077 9 8
£154,237 5 3
£40,000 0 0
20,000 0 0
- 60,000 0 0
Leaving available for dividend
.. £94,237 5 3
Dr.
BALANCE-SHEET, October 14, 1901.
Cr.
LIABILITIES.
Circulation £182,86$ 0 0
Deposits .. .. .. .. .. 13 878,370 12 8
Bills payable and other liabilities .. 2,374,977 3 9
Capital .. .. £1,600,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. 995,000 0 0
(Of which £500,000 is
invested in ,2f per
cent. Consols at
90, the remainder
being used in the
business of the
bank)
Profit account, un-
divided balance .. 94,237 5 3
£16,736,215 16 5
2,689,237 5 3
£19,425,453 1 8
ASSETS.
Specie, bullion, and cash balances .. £2,977,526 4 0
Loans at call-and at short notice .. 752/100 0 0
British Government securities .. .. 1,021, ’339 18 5
India and Colonial Government se- ’
curities .. .. 360,954 3 8
Bills receivable, advances on securities, ’ -
and other assets 13,930,456 5 10
Bank premises in Australia, New Zea-
land, and London 383173 9 9
£19,425.453 1 8
P. H. BLOGG, Accountant.
R. W, JEAN'S, Manager.
We have examined the cash and securities in London and the London books, and have verified the transfers frnm
“he several branches m the colonies, and we beg to report that, in our opinion the foresroimr k n f “
uhe a books. eet ° f tl,e l,a " k ’ an<l that lt exhibits a true and con-ec t view of the state’of the back’s” affairs as shovvnby
London, March 12, 1902. WELTON, JONES, and CO., Auditors.
HOIVM NVWHSna :
h
fgh
4.
NEW SONGS THAT WILL LIVE.
“SAY THAT YOUR HEART IS MINE.”
By Will Vernie. Sung at the Principal London
Concert Halls.
“SHEPHERD DIVINE.”
Words by Allington Villaz. Music by T. R. Ollkrbn-
shaw. Will be welcomed in all homes where <>-ood
sacred songs are appreciated.
, W- PAXTON & 00., London & Melbonrne.
Catalogued Free.


.
ml
CD
an
IH
n
T7H3R the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
•E ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “ Ll'is’ King Street Coffee Palace,”
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. W. ELLIS.
SPECIAL NOTICE
Re CORONATION.
p ENTLEMEN VISITING ENGLAND should avail them-
selves of this opportunity of examining . . .
. . . W. W. GREENER’S World-Renowned
GUNS and RIFLES
68 Haymarket, London, and Birmingham.
JSV” STOCKS of the above maker’s Guns and Rifles, all
qualities ; and Greener’s New Book, “ Sharpshooting for
Sport and War,” to be obtained from
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Representing W. W. Greener.
JOHN JAM
“ THREE-STAR ” WHISKEY.
Agents : J. BAREE JOHNSTON & CO., lioftus Street, Sydney.
As
a Corrective
and Safeguard
of HEALTH.
THE BEST REMEDY TO-DAY IN THE MARKET IS
REUTER’S LITTLE PILLS
FOR THE LIVER.
A HOUSEHOLD NECESSITY.
AT THE
CIRCUS
RED BIRD BICYCLES
Stand every
test. Their
quality is the
highest.
Messrs. Fitzgerald Bros, tried almost every other make in the Cycle Track Act but they broke down. Mr.
Fitzgerald then purchased 4 Red Birds and they have never needed a repair. How is this as a proof of their
strength under rough usage? Come and
inspect them. Cash or terms. GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King Street, Sydney.
Hardy’s Tintara Wines
Absolutely Pure; Fully Matured; 700 Medals, etc.
Adelaide: » Melbourne: « Sydney:
CURR’E STREET /\ COLLINS STREET /\ GROSVENOR STREET
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Australia's
Leading Tonic
Beverage.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
S.T.C. Birthday meet, at Rand wick, on May 24.
being abolished, last Saturday’s programme filled the gap
m advance. Though the crowd numbered well, there must
have been a balance on the wrong side, as added money
totalled 650sovs. One fly in the ointment was the running
in the Hurdles of crack jumper, Seafarer, tipped every-
where as a “moral.” Mo. opened, offering evens, and
then 5 and 6 to 4 about the nag, but punters held off till
the last moment, when a rush brought the price down to
evens again, then 5 and 6 to 4 on, with “ can’t bet” the
response in some places, through “ books ” shutting down
under the impression the right money had come. Crack
cross-country rider Cunninghame had the mount, but
never got near the leader till the last half mile, when
he hung off, and finished second. The committee
carpeted Cunninghame, and “ sent him up ” for two
years, but not feeling on solid enough ground regarding
the owner s connection with the happening gave him the
benefit of the doubt. Oberon won easily, and might have
annexed the prize even had Seafarer shown his best, but
the finish would have been a lot closer.
Of the six entered for the S.T.C. Steeple four
lmed up, and two supplied the hottest finish lately seen
at Randwick. T.C. baulked at second fence, and stayed
there. The other three flew their jumps beautifully,
but Tasmanian Bay Eagle and Sportsman skimmed away
from The Grafter, and at the beginning of the last six
furlongs had excitement at fever pitch. They soared
oyer the last three leaps simultaneously. Bay Eagle
hit the logs slightly but recovered instanter and the two
streamed down the straight, neck and neck. Once Bay
Eagle’s head was in front, and hordes of men who had
backed him danced wild fandangoes over the feet and
skirts all round, and then as he failed momentarily right
on the post and Sportsman just won, and no more, the
other side screamed and screeched till the dead-tired
horses and riders came into the weighing enclosure
Sportsman s rider could barely dismount, and both were
broken right up. The two steeds are aged geldings, and
both of unknown dams. Sportsman had M'Nally up and
humped 9.8, while Chevalley was on Bay Eagle, who
carried 10.10. “
*,* • *
Choice double in Sydney, last Monday week,
was Prince Butler and Horace, for May Stakes and S.T.O.
Handicap, and crowds had gathered in every available
cent by noon. Prince Butler, the moral for the first leg, was
passed at the Leger stand by comparative outsider Whirl-
pool, who won from Canadian and Ferryman as named.
The Watchdog showed well, and looks like picking up his
old speed again. A bluff was made at backing the much-
boomed Antique, and the punters fought to get “ on ” at
3’s, only to hear at flagfall the raucous voiced yelling 10’s
and 20’s. Then they realised they’d fallen in. Banana-
lander Velocity had a big following, which he did in
thoroughly.
* * • •
Goodwood Handicap, choice plum of S.A.J.C.
Autumn meet, first day, was snapped by favorite Foot-
bolt, with Andorra second choice. Trochon flashed away
at barrier-rise and kept in front two furlongs, till King-
ston showed the way to the straight, where Footbolt
streaked down and beat Andorra home by four lengths,
with Wairiri a poor third. Footbolt is owned in Ade-
laide, and trained by Hickenbotham at Flemington, and
is by Thunderbolt from Footstep, by Countryman from
Instep (imp.). His record includes A.R.C., Unley Welter
and Burnside Handicaps in one afternoon, City Handicap
and Birthday Cup. Footbolt’s prospects in last Caulfield
Cup were fairly rosy, but he didn’t face the flag, and was
given a long spell, which only ended rather recently, so,
in spite of good track-work, Melbourne turfites didn’t
fancy him.
* S- * * *
Any Melbourne punters who backed their
fancies, “straight out,” for the Goodwood Handicap and
Adelaide Cup with local cormorants, may be advised to
study the odds laid by the tote on the course. For
instance, take the case of Clanside. Punters in Melbourne
accepted 4 to 1 against Clanside half-an-hour before the
race was run. As little as 3to 1 had been accepted
previously. The tote at Adelaide showed £467 on Clan-
side out of a total “booking” of £4535. The machine
would have paid a div. of £9 or thereabouts—fully double
the odds procurable from Isaac the Moses. When does
Ikey’s straight-out price ever amount to 4 points more
than the totalisator odds ?
* * * *
A disputed betting transaction that came about
through Tatt.’s last Sydney Cup sweep raises an interest-
ing point of unwritten law. The Wakeful ticket fell to a
Tas. sport, who firstly “ laid the stable a bit to nothing ”
(deplorable fact), and subsequently telegraphed to a com-
mission agent at Randwick, authorising him to “ hedge ”
£5OO of the stake he (the ticket-holder) stood to win from
Tatt.’s. The agent, as it happened, was not at Rand-
wick, but a relative of his—presumably his representative
—opened the telegram, and replied that he had booked
“ £5OO to £45 Wakeful.” Then the good little mare won
the race, and the Tas. sport repudiated the claim for £5OO
on the ground that, not having given “laying” instruc-
tions to anyone save the agent who didn’t actually receive
his telegram, he would have had no legal claim upon the
other fellow for £45, in the event of Wakeful getting
beaten. An appeal to the Victorian Club committee
eventuated, but the Tas. gent would not consent to abide
by the decision of that Ikey Moish-minded tribunal unless
he were represented by counsel. This stipulation not
being granted, the decision of the V.R.O. (in favor of the
agent’s claim) has nothing to do with the case. The real
question seems simple enough. Was the interloping
agent a man whose bet would be good enough for the
Tasmanian to accept in an ordinary way of turf business?
He (the Tatt. ticket-holder) was not a novice wiring to
the one particular agent whom he could trust, but a man
of the world (betting world), prepared to do his
“ hedging ” with any safe “ book.” Had he been a novice
there could be no question as to his not being morally
committed to the wager stated on the telegram. Under
the circs, there are moral and legal considerations for dis-
cussion.
• * » *
Niphetos, the Maribyrnong Plate winner, who
was shipped for England last week, will be the prettiest
bit of Australian stuff they have ever seen on the other
side. Niphetos showed no special brilliancy in her gallops
after winning the Maribyrnong, but she was growing into
a sweet mare all the time, and with good luck ought to
capture big stakes on the foreign strand. Stockbrokers
Clark (of Adelaide) and Robinson are the owners—pro-
verbially lucky men both.
* * • •
The luck of our old acquaintance, “ Bob
Sutton” Sievier, in winning the “Guineas” with
the filly for which he gave £lO,OOO as a yearling looks like
a device of the Devil—or Providence ? for hastening
other plungers to their destruction. Success always looks
clever, and doubtless a hundred horse-reporters will extol
the cuteness of Bob aforesaid. “He had the courage of
his opinions,” Ac., See., when he bid a fortune for Sceptre
twelve months before she could possibly begin to earn
her oats. Nevertheless, he knew no more about the
future than a hundred other men who have paid fancy
prices for the yearlings of the season and never got back
a penny of their purchase money in racing stakes and
bets. The filly might have died, or become unsound, or
she might have trained on into a second-rater, in which
case the amount of “ forfeits ” upon her racing engage-
ments would have been about equal to her value for
breeding purposes, and the £lO,OOO purchase money
would have been a dead loss. Sceptre is a daughter of
Persimmon, the first of the two colts —full brothers in
blood—that won the Epsom Derby for King Edward, in
his Prince of Wales days. Presumably his Gracious Nibs
backed Sievier’s notorious animal last week. And he will
back her again for the Derby, on “coincidence” prin-
ciples, A King who didn’t back Sceptre for the
“ Coronation ” Derby would be absolutely disloyal to the
Throne. Cabled that Sievier has refused Vanderbilt’s offer
of £35,000 for his equine gold mine, which doesn’t say
much for Sievier’s astuteness, even though the filly has
valuable engagements ahead and good prospects of
winning them. Not long since he sold the two-year-old,
Duke of Westminster, for 21,000g5.
* » • »
S.A.J.C. Autumn meet opened Saturday at
Morphetville. Sum put through the machine totalled
£13,407 —£1736 in excess of last year’s figures. Money
(£4565) “ toted ” over Goodwood Handicap was a record
for the race. First event (Maiden Plate) fell to an out-
sider in the Zalinski-New Mistress nag Hot Shot which
produced a dividend of £l6 17s.
» * • *
Surely a record ! Winner (Crusader) of Electric
Handicap, at Marlborough (M.L.) races, t’other day, was
steered by the nine-year-old son of well-known trainer
Geo. Murfitt; the child only scaled Sst. 101 b.
* * * *
S.A. Leger resulted in the favorite Amirai
finishing a bad last- of three starters, and The Admiral-
The Charmer nag, The Victory, winning as he liked with
Chievely second.
» * * •
Gozo-Maori Queen, 6-year gelding Horace,
after threatening great things for four seasons, closed on
S.T.C. Handicap, Saturday, quite brilliantly, with Street
Arab second, and Sam Fielder’s Orphan Boy third.
Though Horace started favorite at five to two, nothing
better than threes was available at any time. Owner
(Dick Wootton), through excessive disappointments on
course and track, had only £BO on, which y’ielded about
£2OO, a miserable win for a sport like Wootton. Horace
has shaped in 30 races and figured on a dozen or more
courses, and was once backed by present owner to win
Melbourne Cup and bushels of lucre. Which he didn’t.
* * * *
Tucka Tucka (N.S.W.) bred Gozo-Procella nag,
Ohio, finished up at Brisbane last week by smashing
through a fence and sustaining mortal injuries. Though
always over-boomed, he got away with Q. Royal Stakes
(twice), Charters Towers Handicap, Town Plate, King’s
Plate, Spring Stakes, Stanley Plate, Mentone Handicap,
and V.R.C. Hotham Handicap.
* * * *
S.A. cricket season dragged on till the end of
April. North Adelaide easily beads the club list, with a
tremendous string of young batsmen, and Reedman as
the star bowler. In this class of cricket, Reedman (aver-
age 10) beats Travers (average 13) and leaves Jones and
Giffen nowhere. East Adelaide, which talked of disband-
ing on losing the Hill brothers at the beginning of the
season, tied for second place, thanks chiefly to Travers.
Walter Giffen and Fred Jarvis head the batting averages
for their clubs, and there are many promising colts, but
the new young bowler does not appear.
• • • •
The Australian team in England starts off as
usual with a chapter of accidents. Jones, Carter and
Trumble are temporarily disabled, leaving the remaining
11 to pick itself for the first match, and, perforce, to play
Saunders whether his arm is fit or not. Teams from this
side are proverbially unlucky with accidents and disable-
ments.
* • *
All the talk about Maclaren accepting a billet
with the Hampshire C.C. has ended in his renewing his
engagement to the Lancashire Club.
* * * *
“E.”: If cricket prophecy is a permissible
foolishness in Tub Bulletin, I would like to predict that
Duff and Clem. Hill will head the Australian batting
averages for the England tour, and that this team will
lose several more matches than the 1899 crowd, who got
through the season with only three defeats. The success
of Barnes in Australia should lead to the “ discovery” of
at least one or two other bowlers, and the batting of the
Englishmen is not likely to suffer from such severe attacks
of Jones as was the case three years ago. Darling has no
triumphal march in front of him this time.
* * * *
The final outcome of the row over the team
for Bisley seems to be that N.S.W. will not be officially
represented therein. The ructions from the start were
really of a personal nature, though the belligerents tried
to hide the fact. Rifledom in N.S.W. is divided into two
camps. One, the Defence Force Association, controlled
by the military, seeks to develop marksmen from
a war point of view ; the National Rifle Association
is accused, of fostering shooting on purely “pot-
hunting ” lines. These two bodies cordially detest each
other, and the whole trouble has arisen because the
N.R.A. had not a voice in choosing the team while the
D.F.A., represented on the Commonwealth Rifle Associa-
tion Council, had. When the Bisley idea was first
set afoot the N.R.A. people practically appointed
a manager to take the men ’Ome. It soon became
evident, however, that this scheme would fail, so
the N.R.A. crowd started to raise Cain by declaim-
ing that N.S.W. was being robbed by the combination of
Southern States, was losing her “ rights” (same old
rights, in quite anti-Bill style) and so on, to such an
extent that they succeeded in stopping public support in
the State to the project. Suddenly a whisper reached
the N.R.A. crowd a few days before the lists closed
that all was not lost. A meeting of the Council was
hurriedly called, and its potentates planked down
their fivers and tenners, various public persons promised
vast sums, and the needed amount was practically raised.
Two days afterwards the bolt fell. The N.R.A. man had
missed the ’bus and the management had gone to Lieut. -
Col. Davis of Tasmania. Another meeting of the N.R.A.
Council was called, and the “patronage” of the tear-
stained N.R.A. was withdrawn from the team. The out-
come is that the despised Southern States will have to
contribute most of the money needed, as a large propor-
tion of the N.S.W. contributions were contingent on
the N.R.A. getting its own way. Whether the unfortu-
nate members of the team, who have been in a blissful
state of uncertainty for some weeks, get away or not, the
whole business shows that a lot of those men who play
at soldiers are nothing but cantankerous infants.
At last round of N.S.W. rifle-clubs’ supremacy,
Saturday, Parramatta and Ist Regt. tied, each with eight
successes and one loss. Parramatta’s aggregate is higher,
as that club accumulated 5388 to Ist Regt.’s 5240. A
decider will be necessary now to define the absolutely
best team. The top individual feat of the day’s shooting
was (Naval Brigade)ex-champion A. B. Fenn’s “possible”
at every range, followed by his club-mate, A. O. Flukes,
whose score showed only 1 behind in each instance. He
couldn’t fluke a win.
• • • *
Novice bruisers had a loud, promiscuous night
at Sydney Golden Gate A.C. last week. For two
hours, during which seven couples, black, aboriginal and
white, figured, the fun was fast and intense and
the light was occasionally shut out by the flying fragments
of multicolored pug. They swooped, they clashed, they
rolled over one another, and clawed and floundered with
a primitive ferocity that was the delight of the ringsiders
and the despair of the referee. A white man was bumped
down heavily by a black cyclone who nearly ate whilom
bantam Willis in his effort to spread his man’s contents all
over the floor. But that white pulled himself together
inside 10 seconds and dealt out thump like a quartz
battery, and the black tried to crawl through the cracks
in the floor. Ooon Walcott, picked as sure to win right
out, and on whom 8 to 1 was laid, tugged and scragged
and ’rastled Wilson to the limit, six rounds, but was
beaten on points. Some of the scrambling scraps broke
judges and referees right up, for limbs were tangled,
and bodies crossed, and legs were crossed over arms,
and heads were twisted under arms, and shins were coiled
round necks, so that it was impossible to say who was
hitting or what he was hitting at or with. Each loser in
the first round was to get ss. if he showed genuine fight,
but two or three aspirants for whisky-money were biffed
out without having supplied the public with two half-
crowns’ worth of gore, and consequently got only their
hiding.
* • * •
The most fight-hungry bruiser these times is
Westralian bantam champ. Joe Dempsey, now in Sydney,
looking vainly for matches. His bold front scares the
majority of the close-cropped, who are invariably chary
of anything anxious to clinch things and with money to
put up. Dempsey wanted Harry North, alleged top-
notcher at the weights, but North having gone
through shadow-framed Bert Weeks declares that he is
working now and consequently can’t fight for some time
ahead. Meanwhile Dempsey, who is among the best-
behaved of his calling, must only stand by and wait his
opportunity or go ’Ome where a brisk market for his
poundage class exists spite of the number there already.
Reason for this is that little men make things much
more willing and lively and, as a rule, are cleverer than
the weightier ones.
* * *
Irish-Cockney Denny Moloney and Melbourne
light middleweight Jack Willis scrambled through an
affair at Sydney Gaiety A. 0., Monday, that excited occa-
sionally, but fell very flat as a boxing match. Moloney,
swinging right and left, “on the off chance,” frequently
landed, bufc more often missed and overbalanced. Some-
times he went down on all fours, but mostly tottered
forward. Willis was too busily engaged backing out of
harm’s way to benefit by Denny’s momentarily absolute
helplessness, or had jumped too far away to get in in
time despite the floundering man’s slowness. Moloney
swung left, then right, leaving himself as open as could
be, but only three or four times was Willis’ left landed
heavily. Molioney suffered through the fourth and fifth
rounds, bumping the floor and struggling up, only to be
spread-eagled again, till his gore and staggers brought
the police to the rescue. Then referee Jim Scanlan called
draw, as had been agreed should the foorce interfere.
Though willing and determined enough, the battle was
devoid of interest because there was infinitely more scrap
than box about it. Willis professes anxiety for ago with
Jack M'Gowan. After Monday night’s scuffle, it’s evident
that there’ll be only one in that battle, and the crowd
won’t be kept waiting long for the finish. Moloney is a
natural fighter, but hasn’t the faintest notion of boxing.
* * • * °
Q. 8-oar team was in Sydney last week, en route
to Adelaide, and without a coach, through Burton’s
inability to make the trip. They looked finely trained,
but are very uneven in the way of poundage. Two of
them top 13st., three range from 11.4 to 11.10, and t’other
trio from 10.4 to 10.10. Though the best combination
Bananaland rowing authorities know of, their speed isn’t
considered anything to rave about, and qualms are felt
regarding the endurance of some. Preponderance of power
on stroke side calls for a fairly stiff check from the
rudder, which, of course, materially hampers progress.
Victorians went over Saturday last, also short of their
coach, Macfarlane ; which, strangely enough, was the
state of affairs with N.S.W. too. Pace and power are the
crew’s strong points, but they possess defects—body
work, &c.—not anything like so strongly marked in
previous eights from the same quarter. Bow side
of Victoria’s boat, as with the Northern State reps.,
is comparatively weak, so much so that ’tis asserted a
201 b. pull will take off a length in each mile of the race.
With high-class oarsmen so plentiful, it’s puzzling how
such a condition of things is allowed. Q. has only
a limited field to draw upon, but Victoria’s recruiting
grounds are the most extensive on the continent.
* * * »
Dick Cavill went Britainwards last Saturday.
It’s interesting how that great family has scattered over
the world. “ Ernie ” (champion of Australia in the early
eighties) has made S’Africa his home foryears ; “ Charlie ”
died in California while doing an underwater turn ; “ Sid”
is swimming instructor at the ’Frisco Olympic Club ;
Percy holds a similar position in Jacksonville (U.S.) ; one
of the girls was for some time (and in company with her
brother “ Sid”) attached to the “Flying Jordans’ ” circus
in America, performing the tank act, but is now a
governess in Russia. The last of the boys but Dick
(“Turns”), born about the time his father swam the
English Channel, talks of moving Americawards by the
next boat; and a married sister, who distinguished herself
in swimming events, will also go, accompanied by her
husband.
* » » *
After another battle, the Sabbath footballers
have won again for a season in Kalgoorlie.
♦ » * *
Re City Club’s appropriation of the big N.S.W.
bowling competition.. This year’s success is the sixth
time in its history it has earned the right to fly the
supremacy pennant. During the tourney the Champion
team aggregated 698 points to 600 scored against it in
7 matches, while Petersham’s grand total for eight con-
tests was 743 in opposition to 696. City had the”luck to
get two byes to Petersham’s one.
* * * *
Final tussle for Sydney bowling pennant
occurred Saturday on Chatswood green, which played
neavybut “ drew ” fairly. Play was stubborn through-
out. First five “ ends” gave Petersham 7 majority, and
next 1. Fifteenth end scores were 3in favor of City, and
twentieth 1; but during the concluding five, which were
hotly fought by both sides, City added 2 more and won :
93—90. Excitement waa high right to the finish fnr
game rested with the two last rinks left on the Seem
Petershams skipper (Carrie) essayed a “drive
t’other side lay 2, but Harris’ (City) well-Dlared <<
effectually thwarted the intention Another driShv
Petersham failed badly, going very wide of fhe ma,
Victors were ahead in each* 5 of rinks ,11
(Coker’s) went down to Briton’s by 18. A peculiarity of
the game was that Petersham notched points in Three
majority of ends, City only winning 8 of the 25
*•* * *
T’other day, over Western district (Vic.) roads,
helped by Beauchamp’s motor bike, Bilmartin traversed
fn ?i in’ A° m G ,T°k within a lnile of Camperdown,
in 51.10. A world s best. Previous Australasian record
was James (Melb.), lh. lm. unpaced, and established
nine years ago; while prior world’s top-time (51.55)
belonged to Yankee rider McDonald, and was accom-
fitt S p h H ed l fv,ina Martln Dunlop tyres and a machine
fitted with 104 gear and 6Jm. cranks.
* * * *
The Massey-Harris Bicycle Dept., 357 George-
street, Sydney, have had a number of new famous
Massey-Harris machines left with them for sale bv persons
who have gone to South Africa. An exceptional chance is
offered to buyers, as the machines are being sold at prices
ranging from £l2 for cash or terms.*
* * * •
Glenara : On a level with the “sportsmen”
who take on pigeon-slaughtering are the sports who trail
through our stubble-land, shooting the harmless and
sociable little quail a bird so quiet that it will scarcely
move out of the road of the teams. I know one cockie
who told a would-be sport that as long as he (cockie) and
" . /l ual cou 'd make a living on his ground the quail
might stop. When times got so hard that there was only
a living for one of them he supposed the quail would have
A Terrible Burden Lifted.
O’ERSHADOWED BY DEATH.
What might be termed a miracle of the
century is contained in these few words: “I
was more like a dying man than anything else,”
writes _ Mr. George Long, Dandenong road,
victoria. “About three years ago my illness
commenced, and, to make matters worse, I had
lost my upper teeth. However, I had a set made,
but could not use them. Indigestion troubled
me so bad that I felt I could lie down all day
long, besides suffering from excruciating pains in
the head. To make matters worse, I was losing
rapidly in flesh ; that was not the only thing I
lost my appetite was gone. Being so weak and
run down, I always suffered from colds. It was
not for the want of trying remedies that I was in
this state, for 1 had tried many and obtained no
relief. In addition to my other ailments I had
endured much from that common ailment, con-
stipation. However, my ailments are now a
thing of the past. I was passing a shop in
Collingwood, where I saw Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills advertised. lat once purchased two
bottles, and commenced their use. I never
experienced such a pleasant medicine in all my
life ; they are a genuine cure for ailments similar
to the ones I suffered from. They speak for
themselves. My advice to anyone who suffers is
to try them. This recommendation is better than
one thousand letters of recommendation that I
could write. But it is my earnest wish that you
will use what is in my letter for the welfare
of my fellow men.” Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are a perfect blood purifier, and
a positive cure for biliousness, indigestion, con-
stipation, headaches, sallow complexion, liver
and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils and
blotches, and for female ailments. Sold by
chemists and storekeepers. Is. ljd per bottle, or
six bottles 6s. 6d. Packed in amber bottles, and
the full name blown thereon.


The Careful Mother
.A'.'.
is critical of the kind of mills given Her children.
Some mill! tastes good ; looks allrigHt, bat lacks
nourishing qualities and cleanliness. jZ? sZ? jg?
OUR PASTEURISED MILK
IS AN IDEAL MILK
It is abnormally ricH in Cream, absolutely free
from Chemical Preservatives, and is the product
of the BEST HERDS IN THE STATED £?£?£?
DELIVERED REGULARLY IN CITY (Sh SUBURBS
N.5.W. Fresh Food (Si Ice Co. Ltd., Sydney
Look in our Depot!
We are showing the Latest
MftSSEy-HBRRIS BICYCLE ACCESSORIES
MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLES
. . . AND IN OUR . . .
SPORTING DEPARTMENT:
The Famous Mcßriety Lacrosse Sticks, Spalding 1
Boxing Gloves, Punching Bags, Footballs,
Tennis Raquets and other requisites.
Massey-Harris Depot: 357 George Street, Sydney,
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
Like Africa, Mr. Mark Blow, of the Crown
Studios, Sydney, is always producing something
new. His latest effort is in the shape of colored
photographs—beautiful pictures, photoed first and
painted afterwards with colors that will
last till_ the paper crumbles away beneath
them. ihe black and white portrait never
really gives the personality of the subject
but these new pictures from the Crown Studios
show the best girl as she really is—the brown of
her hair, the amethyst of her eyes, and the de-
Hghtful peach blooiji on each dainty cheek
Writer intends to get his best girl's painted por'-
trait taken at the Crown Studios next week, and
to owe the money.* ’
Last week at Redfern failway station (Sydney)
Mr. R. A. Hervey, of Clarence-street, Sydney agent for
the United Flexible Metallic Tubing Co., gave an exhibi-
tion of hose made of a metallic composition which has
all the advantages and none of the drawbacks of india-
rubber, leather or other ordinary flexible hose materials.
The tubing bends as easily as rubber, and will stand
several times more pressure of gas, steam, boiling
water or anything else, than the materials of which hoses
have hitherto been composed. As the agent put it in
sonorous tones, the rubber forests of the burning tropics
have once more given way before the metal mountains
of cold and aged Britain. As a result of the exhibition
the new flexible tubing will be adopted by several
Government departments, and, if the material comes into
general use, the bikist may look forward to a time when
'.his tyres will be made of it, and the sudden puncture
,on a lonely road 50 miles from nowhere will happen
’nevermore.*
La
*
?//
* •. *•'» #.’•. *:
:
>o
?,:* •/•'•-.—? :.V-.
At J'.'-'vv .»v
'*• v ,#^-
V .Vr
YOU
CAN
DRIVE
IN
COMFORT
BY FITTING A SET OF OUR DURABLE
Dunlop-Kelly
Solid
Rubber
CARRIAGE
yres.
They stop all noise and vibration.
Double the life of your trap and
save repairs.
For Particulars and Prices apply for a copy of our Artistic Catalogue.
• --
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus., Ltd.,
150 Clarence Street, Sydney:
And at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.
“The Zelraan recital (May Ist) drew a fair
crowd of sympathetic maidens and musically in-
clined men to the Masonic Hall. If young Zelman
were here as a judiciously-boomed stranger, his
playing would probably inspire Melb. missies to
jump on chairs and wave’kerchiefs. Bertie Z.,
remembered by many hearers in his petticoat-
days, comes trailing no clouds of novelty. All
the same there is a gentle little halo of local
liking and esteem round that well-kempt head of
his. Personally, Alberto junior is genial and
placid, but his musical individuality seems fiery
and dramatic rather than classic, calm, strong. At
the recital Pa Zelman, whose rococo countenance is
redeemed from weirdness by its kindly humorous
twinkle, was congratulated by cronies on sonny’s
performance. In response, he jerked his fore-
finger backwards towards his smart boy, as if to
say ‘No fool, that little one!’ The paternal verdict
seems extra-true just now, when people are talk-
ing of the young violinist’s sensible suitable en-
gagement. His fiancee, Miss Maud Harrington,
decorative operatic neophyte and trainee of the
Marshall Hall conservatorium, is in private life
Miss Jenkins of the fish firm, reputedly anything
but a farthing belle.
“The Jap. cadets and lieutenants were the
draws at the opening of the Chrysanthemum
Show (May 2nd). Clean, brown, impassive, little
chaps! People kept pestering them to know if
the Chrys’mums were up to Jap. form. In reply,
the visitors, one and all, slightly parted
their lips in a vague smile, just enough to
show teeth, smooth and creamy as blanched
almonds. Then they said, ‘ these very good, but
many differ—ent kind in Japan’! Both polite
and patriotic, you see. I guess the instructor
coached them in poll-phrases ere they came ashore.
Girls, failing to make headway with the Japs,
described them as ‘dummies,’ till a fat forty-year-
old in scarlet millinery, came along and tackled
the youngest middy of the group. He and one
other had aquiline noses, and were dainty bits of
bric-a-brac, in consequence. The boy was taciturn,
at first, but the curio-fancier prattled on till he
thawed, and after a bit, he was learning to pro-
nounce English words by lip-imitation methods,
while the teacher unconsciously leaned con-
fidentially against his blue-serge shoulder. An-
other sentimental spinster bailed up a lieutenant,
pleading for a souvenir button, and the midget
officer felt his position both absurd and perilous.
He shrank in among his comrades, who closed
loyally round him, turning a deaf ear to the
blandishments of this, to them, new sort of siren,
who used a pince-nez and demanded not her vic-
tim’s kisses, but his haberdashery.
“ The Broughs had a great send-off (May 2nd).
Never before, perhaps, quite so many flowers
handed up. Little Miss Chatteris in the D.C.
must have wished herself in the thick of it on the
stage. She was in white with pink corsage-spray,
attended as usual by one of the tallest young
sparks hereabouts. Between times, she fluttered
in the plump, picturesque proximity of Napoleon
Boffard, or was hailed by professional colleagues.
Other D.C. inmates were smart, gray-haired Miss
Carter, in theatre-jacket of pink brocade, and Mrs.
Norman Menzies (Dorothy Vane), coated in pink
silk, strewn with posies.”
“ State-governoress Clarke looked thin, tired
and tanned the night (April 29th) she tried to
make her family-group seem to be enjoying
‘Wrong Mr. Wright.’ This social Spartaness is
too sparse and dark not to look her worst in
decollette black, but when she turns her bravely-
smiling front-face and shows her kind, brilliant
brown eyes, signs of wear and tear are forgotten.
That amiable, round-eyed pair, Pa Clarke and
daughter Ethel, lack Ma’s nerve and ‘go,’ and
boyish aide Browning is bashful, too, so ‘Herself’
has all she can do to keep the ball rolling. That
night, Miss Clarke wore cool white muslin, drawn
up round the neck with narrow black velvet,
while her bright brown hair was combed over a
margin roll. Fashionable heads no longer swell
all over, but limit themselves to a fatted strip,
round the edge.
“To the publication of lullabies there is no end.
Allan and Co ‘ report a brisk demand ’ for Love’s
Lullaby, words by Gladys M. Ure, who has
managed to strike a spark of originality from a
hackneyed theme. The tall youthful daughter
of James Ure will score something much more
ambitious than the Lullaby before she is out of
her teens if she retains her present enthusiasm
for musical pen work. Meanwhile pretty Miss
Gladys and her pessimistic papa are gaining faith
in her voice—a soprano with some beautiful notes
at the top—so there is more than a possibility
that she will try her next song upon a Town Hall
public at her own concert, before committing it
to print. That’s what she ought to do anyhow.
The public wants novelty, A fetching girl intro-
ducing with a new voice a new ballad of her own
composition would be a novelty. Advance
Australia 1
“ The University musical. students speak of
Prof. Peterson’s ‘beautiful complexion.’ Now
isn’t that enough to kill any man’s attainments ?
The wax-doll, pink-and-white coloring is the
despair of the Professor’s masculine adherents.
“ Alice Crawford, , who was taken ’Ome under
the wide wings of King Ego Barrett, has grown to
an extraordinary degree lately. She is now as big
and massive a woman as Nance O’Neil. On the
day of the Barrett co.’s departure the handsome
face of Alice alone won recognition ; none of her
past friends knew the Junoesque figure. The
same girl wept when M‘Kee Rankin left her in
Adelaide rather than bind himself to send her
home if his co. disbanded. But Mr. Barrett made
a bigger bid in due course of time, and off Alice
has tripped.
The camera has again been at mischief. This
time a malicious Toorakian snapped her fiance
flirting in a most touching manner with a married
friend. Someone’s funeral’s to-morrow.
Mayor Grillott is a solitary person. He takes
his pleasures, as a rule, in grim spirit. The other
night he saw * The Village Priest ’ from the stalls,
and though four intervals offered the chance of
fresh air he only maundered out to stretch his
limbs once. The rest of the spare time he spent
deep in thought, his arms folded firmly, his pallid
face impassive.
“Alice Crawford, the bonnie Bendigonienne,
should make her mark abroad at some not very
distant time. She now takes the parts that Miss
Belmore used to play with Wilson Barrett’s co.,
and her present engagement covers the S’African
tour of that industrious Roman author-actor-
manager, with three months in London to follow.
Renewal of the engagement is practically guaran-
teed. W.B. tells Miss Crawford that he hopes to
have her with him for years, and his word is as
good as his bond in business matters. So the de-
parting daughter of Bendigo (where the voices
come from) went around Melbourne last week
paying farewell visits, and leaving an impression
that the theatrical products of Australia ought to
be kept for home consumption. The average
actress imported here from England is not a
circumstance on the fine, clever girl that Wilson
Barrett has taken away.
(Continued on page 53.)
Mr. Donald S. M‘Lachlan, now N.S.W.
Under-Secretary for Mines, has been appointed
Federal Civil Service Commissioner. In the
N.S.W. Service, and wherever he is known, the
appointment is most popular; for Mr. M‘Lachlan
is regarded everywhere with respect as an officer.
The cable sends out persistent reports
that the great Cunard and White Star lines, which
stood aloof when the American steamship'combine
swallowed up so much of Britain’s Atlantic ship-
P\ n K> have been bought up by Americans.
Also Britain, which has jeered for so many
years on strictly Freetrade principles at
the bonus system as a gross Protectionist heresy,
now sees its Government driven to “seriously
consider ” the idea of granting subsidies
to British shipping, and the London papers talk
of devising schemes to “prevent the loss of our
maritime supremacy.” All this is very sudden
indeed.
Inverell district (N.S.W.) is about the
only one which consistently chooses its Parlia-
mentary representatives from its big local folk
When moneyed squire Cruickshank was elected
to the Federal House, his Inverell seat in
N.S.W. Parliament was promptly filled by
W. D. M‘lntyre, scion of another big family
of the district. Mr. M‘lntyre, who was a
barrister by profession, showed well during
his few months in Parliament, and looked to
become a tower .of strength to the country Con-
servative party. But death from appendicitis last
week suddenly ended a promising career The
country suffers a loss by his death, for Mr
MTntyre was able and, according to his lights’
honest; and there is so sad a ’ack of honest men
in politics that one can ill be opared, whatever his
views.
“R. 8.": The secret of the trashy character of some
plays which go out to Australia as “ great London
successes ” is this : For Australian theatrical purposes
England is London. Here, in Hastings—a town with a
smaller population than Ballarat—there are constantly
three theatres open. The other night I saw “Sowing the
Wind ” played to a£s house. The prices are so low that
£lO would be a full house. “Often new plays first see
the light here, and £6 houses for a week constitute a
success,” which a theatrical manager on your side calls a
“ London triumph,” This is particularly true of melo-
drama. And the gilt-edged melodrama, in many cases,
comes from some theatre in a filthy suburb—lslington or
Hammersmith. A “London triumph” is thus often
equivalent to a wonderful success at Geelong.
“ S.” : How account for the extraordinary prosperity of
the theatrical profession in Australia of late ? I have only
seen one desolate Thespian on Poverty Point in Melbourne
for 12 months ; and the gaunt gents, with unkempt hair
and pale-purple noses, who used to haunt the corner in
threadbare garments, sicklied o’er with the dripping of
the fid. restaurants, when met with now-a-days, are sup-
porting fat cigars, wearing noisy new suits, and generally
piloting prosperous young ladies, with auriferous hair,
into the home and haunts of the wanton oyster.
“T.D.” : Before and during the Castles concerts in
Melb. I heard scores of people say they were not going to
hear the returned Amy, but would “wait for Melba.”
Some of these would not have felt much emptier about
the pockets if they had booked seats at first-class enter-
tainments every night for a year, and every one of them
would have been considerably insulted if his or her
(mostly her) love of music were assailed. The fact that
Melb. people do not feel up to listening to more than one
prima-donna, or aspirant for prima-donna-ship, a year
more than ever convinces me that their musical culture
is mainly sham and brag.
The delightful ease with which the veteran theatrical
works in the free ad. every time is truly edifying. When
George Darrell landed in Bendigo t’other day the boy
from the Advertiser wanted to know all about
“Sapho,”and finished up with, “ Er, er-plainly speak-
ing, Mr. Darrell: is it an immoral play?” Then the
actor-author got off this sweet little gag :—“ Well, I have
a boy of 15 ; I gave him my manuscript of ‘ Sapho ’ to
read. He grasped the moral warning its pages proclaim.
He is forewarned, therefore forearmed. To parents and
guardians I say send the children, who stand on the
threshold of life, to see 1 The Sorrows of Satan ’ and
‘ Sapho,’ and they will be dense indeed if they do not
benefit therefrom.” Then the youthful reporter went
back to the office, and at much length set out that
“ Sapho” conveyed a most powerful moral lesson.
“ Barracker ” writes “ Miss Millie Ascoli (Harry Hill’s
wife) who does a graceful skirt dance in ‘ Wrong Mr.
Wright,’ graduated at the Melb. dancing school of the
Misses Hyams, where also Maud Chetwynd learned her
steps. No denying the fact that Melbourne, with its
musical conservatoriums, and its leg academies conducted
by the Greens and the Hyams’, is the principal recruiting
ground for Australian operatic forces. Anyhow, most of
the recent ‘ local talent ’ girls who have come to the front
in opera or dance are Victorians by birth, though they
didn’t all have a training for the stage. Take a few
names—Lilian Wheeler, Carrie Moore, Florence Young,
Lilian Boanas (the shepherd boy in ‘Tannhauser’),
Alice Crawford and Rose Musgrove. From the time of
Essie Jenyns until now has there ever been an Australian
girl playing principal part in a very notable show—on the
stage or concert platform, here or abroad—who was not
Victorian born ? ”
Mr. and Mrs. Steffani have taken a house in London.
Hetty Holroyd is with them, continuing her studies with
Mr. S. She will, later on, go to Paris to perfect herself in
the language, and will return in Aug. to Milan to fulfil an
excellent engagement that has been offered her.
Robert Brough was wise in declining a public testi-
monial and a set demonstration on the occasion of his
last Melbourne farewell. An actor never knows his luck,
and to take parting gifts and valedictory flattery one
season and have to resurrect again the next, creates a
decided awkwardness after the third time of happening.
A people best shows its respect for an actor at the pay 1
box and the booking office.
Miss Romer, whom Australian theatre-goers of half a
decade back remember as the most charming exponent of
good grey gentlewomen seen here, has been with the
Broughs for some time, but is now lame, and her eyesight
is too feeble to permit of her reappearance upon the
stage. Miss Romer (Mrs. Gibson) came to Australia with
her daughter Brenda, who is Brough’s half-sister. She
frequently occupied a box at Melb. Princess during the
Broughs’ recent season without any of the audiences
recognising the old favorite.
“ Floral tributes,” incidental to the Brough farewell in
Melbourne, represented an absurd waste of money. The
flowers, all told, probably cost about £lOO, and this is at
the end of a season which was not too profitable to the
management. A better way of paying respect to the
Broughs would have been to expend the cost of those
vegetable offerings in the purchase of extra tickets for
performances earlier in the week, performances that
didn’t get crowded support. The tickets might have been
given away to appreciative people who couldn’t afford to
support the shows on their own. Farewell performance
advts., like the up-to-date obituary notices, should con-
clude with the beautiful words, “ No flowers.”
Dear Bulletin, —Your London correspondent erred last
week re the Australian career of May Yoh6. May was
not a member of Frank Clarke’s Silk Stockings co. The
S.S. were nearly all local girls and performed at St.
George’s Hall. Later on, Clarke went to America and
brought out a co. of Yankee performers, opening at
Victoria Hall under the title of the All Star co. Also,
May did not oscillate in a swing—the All Star show was
the first variety entertainment in Australia to abolish the
first part—she was the star of a turn and shone as the
“ Celebrated Female Baritone.” The story about her
having Indian blood in her was current then. —D.W.
“J.A.C.”: It appears to be a rule, with regard to
Sydney theatrical benefits, that, if the beneficiary is in
actual want, he gets nothing ; whereas, if he has been in
receipt of a handsome salary and meditates a trip to
Yurrup, he receives a substantial send-off in the shape of
a hundred or two.
On 13th March last James Doel, patriarch of the Eng-
lish stage and oldest actor in the world, entered on his
99th year. The day previous J. L. Toole completed his
70th year. By the way, Macklin, the one-time famous
actor, appeared as Sir Pertinax Macsycophant in his own
comedy, “ Man of the World,” when he had passed his
100th birthday. People lived to a great age until a
proper system of registration of births blighted the cen-
tenarian industry. Macklin, by the way, died at the age
of 98 by his own computation, but his biographer, who
thought he knew better, made his age 107. Hence the
above legend.
Sarah Bernhardt has taken out a life policy for £20,000
in U S. A. Facts elicited by the life office : “ Born October
23, 1844, father died at 37, her mother at 61. She has no
brother. Of her two sisters, one died of accidental
poisoning and the other of pneumonia. Full name
Sarah Bernhardt Damala. She owns £20,000 worth of real
estate in Paris, and earns £2OOO a week in the theatrical
season. Height sft. 6Jin., weight 9st. 41b.”
Mr. George Alexander Grimm is to have a farewell
concert in Sydney Town Hall, May 31. Then he leaves
for a course of musical study in Europe. Mr. Grimm is a
son of the kindly and popular George Grimm, M.A.,
deceased. He is well known in Sydney as a baritone
singer and as a conductor, and his popularity should win
for him a good send-off.


Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N. S. Wales: Sayers,
Allport and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
Cheapest House in Australia for EDISON
Phonographs & Records
“BIJOU,” with 6 Records £1 10 0
EDISON “ STANDARD,” with 12 Records .. 510 0
EDISON “ HOME,” with 24 Records .. .. 810 0
COMBINATION A 1 “GRAND," taking both
Large and Small Records, with 12 Records, 6
Concert (sin.) Records and Large Horn .. 10 10 0
EDISON RECORDS, English and American,
per dozen .. .. .-. .10 0
CONCERT (sin.) RECORDS, per dozen.. .. 30 0
Send for Splendid New
Illustrated Catalogue
containing 5000 Selec-
tions to choose from.
Electric Fans, with Bat-
tery, £5 ; Electric Bike
Lamps, 21s ; Flash
Lights, Scarf Pin Lights,
10s 6d; Vapour Bath
Cabinets, 20s; &c., Free.
Records can be posted
to any address.
Machines carefully
packed and forwarded
to any part of Austra-
lasia.
fg
REEVES & CO.,
KING WILLIAM ST., ADELAIDE
A
LCOHOLIC EXCESS.
DRINK AND DRUG HABITS CURED at
Patient’s own home. Can be given secretly.
Testimonials from prominent people. Write for pamphlet
or call on
THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Visitors to the old country:
BAILEYS
6LOUCESTEB ROAD,
SOUTH KE/iSlfKiTOf'f.
Under Royal Ritronage.
IoMJo/i.sw.
THE NEW LOUNGE.
HOTEL
fh
fgh
One of the FINEST examples
of modern OAK CARVING extant
Self-contained Suites .
Public Rooms opening on to
PLEASANT PRIVATE GARDEN.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON
«sts
X °A
£ ttcaW t!^ wo ;
c»» eS
a^ d ro \&s
eaU a tvd CoV
]\V 0 '
\HV^
m
K
1
S
ss
IN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade—viz., the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
9ct. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant ; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0, or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, 15ct_
gold, filled, Bs. 6d. Illustrated catalogues sent free
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address —
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA.
DEAF
NESS CURED
Deafness is incurable till the I
cause is removed. Therefore Ear l
Drums and other artificial aids I
never cure. Nobody need be I
deaf where the ELECTRICON is obtainable. Write to-day.
mentioning this paper, and we will send valuable informa-
tion FREE. Address—
L. R. Vernon Coy., 60-64 Hunter-st., Sydney
FREEMAN » WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL &
SURGICAL INSTITUTE
IN LIFE’S GREAT RACE
Your desires are to be with the VICTORS, not the VANQUISHED. To TRIUMPH SOCIALLY, DOMESTICALLY,
PHYSICALLY, you require ENERGY, STRENGTH, ENDURANCE. If you desire to reach the HIGHEST ALTI-
TUDE OF PHYSICAL PERFECTION, with each day full of A JOYOUS PLENITUDE OF UNFAILING POWER,
the new treatment of ELECTRICITY and MEDICINE will give it you. Electricity is NATURE’S CURATIVE and
CREATIVE ELEMENT. It never fails when SCIENTIFIC SPECIALISTS JUDICIALLY APPLY IT.
If vou have proved a DECREASE OF PHYSICAL POWER DAILY, and your system has run down in your prime
of years to the verge of an unnatural old age, a course of ELECTRO-MEDICATION will o f U v o ur e svstern
tested ELECTRIC “ INVIGORATORS,” worn for a few hours nightly, will pour into the jaded springs of your sy stem
a renovatinsr nerve power which will give you a NEW LEASE OF LIFE. Eminent physiologists declare Electricity
aloneTs ineffectual.ln Til Disorders of the. STOMACHIC AND VITAL POWERS, the soothing influences of
Special Medicines augment the Curative Electric Current.
PRICES
The “ Invigorator’s " Prices are as follow, and there is no reason why you should pay more :
Copper Plated, £1 ; Silver Plated, £1 10s.; Solid Silver, £3 ; Solid Cold (stamped), £lO.
PRICES
The Institute’s 550
Page Publication,
“Clinical
Experiences,”
THRESH from the hands of the
Printer, is the Institute’s
Annual Publication. “Clini-
cal Experiences,” elegantly |
bound, admirably printed,
profusely illustrated, des-
criptively written, it is a
medical volume all should
possess. It can be purchased
for One Shilling sent to the
Specialists, who will mail it
free to all Australia. The
Edition cf 15,000 copies have
been practically ordered, and
all orders are at once noted.
The Book contains 550 pages
of Medical Literature, 150
full-page Plates and Medical
Illustrations, over 30 Chapters
Treating of Several Diseases,
with Special Articles upon
Poisons and Antidotes, Burns,
Scalds, Drowning, Invalids and
their Treatment, Sick Room
Advices, Snake Bites, Fevers,
etc. This makes it invaluable
to people in the outlying por-
tions of Australia. It is a
work everyone should obtain.
It is practically given away.
It is a handsome (addition to
the Household Literature, and
is in itself A Whole Library of
Facts.
t/v
Of
mm
tz
kJ
•3S
IX' S
Wu
:.Aml
.f Wm
mi
,4 i
t
■IWS/V
ary
w
/97^
'*+h4
Xl+t*'
.. //JU-.
1
a
j>\>V
S\
.
/*•«
i*-'. _
What Electricity and
Medicine does for
Brain, Nerve and
Muscle.
Electricity and Medicine,
the judicious use of which
proves a restorative agent
of great power in recreating
healthy conditions in men
and women, is amazing the
medical faculty by its cures.
It has made the names of the
Specialists of the Freeman
and Wallace Electro-Medical
and Surgical Institute famous
over Australasia. It is proved
Electric-Medication, supervised
by skilled Specialists, is sin-
gularly successful in cases
where disease arises from
structural changes of the great
nervous centres, as in paraly-
sis, or other nerve disorders.
Where nerve force or animal
magnetism is lacking, this
new treatment restores. Once
restored, new life is given.
Disease is driven out of the
system. The Specialists have
attained this end in thousands
of cases, and continue to
brighten homes and lighten
suffering day by day. They
have thousands of testi-
monials from all parts of
/' ustralia to this effect.
What Mr. E. H. AMES, exponent in Australia of the new “Tod Sloan” style of riding says:
Messrs FREEMAN and WALLACE. SPECIALISTS IN NERVOUS DISEASES. Australian Jockey Club Hotel, Rand wick, March 12th, 1902. _
“ I endorse the new methods of muscular and nervous restoration practised by you m your system of Electro-Medical treatment. I attribute to it much of the strength of nerve and mental power by which I was successful in
winning two great racing events in one day.” . (Signed) EDWARD H. AMES.
What Mr. MAT. MITCHIE, Professional Pugilist, says:
“ I have worn one of your Electric ‘ INVIGORATORS.’ To its strengthening effect I attribute much vigor
and staying power.”
Mr. JOSEPH MEOSON, Champion Cyclist of N.S. W., attests:
“I suffered keenly from nervousness for some time. -Your methods of Electro-Medication restored me to a
strength of which I had despaired.”
NINE DIPLOMAS AND CERTIFICATES OF QUALIFICATION AND REGISTRATION BY THE MEDICAL BOARDS OF N.S. WALES, VICTORIA, SOUTH AUSTRALIA, ENGLAND AND AMERICA, OPEN FOR INSPECTION,
BY THE PHYSICIAN-IN-CHIEF, DR. WALLACE, LATE HOMCEOPATHIC HOSPITAL, MELBOURNE, AND BRITISH IMPERIAL ARMY MEDICAL STAFF.
FREEMAN & WALLACE
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director Electro-Medical Dept. RICHARD WALLACE, Phyelolan-in-Chief.
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute
Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
puffer Little Children to Come Unto Me.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Such was His invitation sweet —
The Prince of Peace on earth —
Who loved the sound of pattering feet,
The sight of childish mirth ;
And mothers brought their children there
To gaze upon His face,
Who said that in the Kingdom Fair
All such should find a place.
To-day, those words, so loving, low,
Seem scarcely understood,
He meant not little ones should go
To Heaven wanting food ;
He never meant that in those tents,
On many an anguished bed,
The Slaughter of the Innocents
Should be out-Heroded.
With fever parched, with hunger pale,
With ceaseless, feeble cry,
The children of a Nation fail,
While mothers watch them die :
And still the callous prayer upgoes
- From pulpits—" Let us Slay,”
And model Christian England shows
The very quickest way.
Oh ! mothers of Australia fair,
Where every breath is free,
Have you no sympathy to spare
For those in misery ?
Have you no little nestling young
From whom you would not part f
Have you no little baby tongue
That prattles to your heart ?
Have you no tiny, toddling thing
You pray for night and day,
And feel your heart could no more sing
If it should pass away ?
Oh, women! west, and south, and north,
How can you in your ease,
Send husbands, sons and lovers forth,
To work such woes as these ?
Are little ones His care the less
Because men fly to blows ?
Ah ! shame on woman’s tenderness
That only “Empire” knows !
To that same God to whom you sut.
Have they not always knelt ?
Are they not mothers like to you,
These women on the veldt ?
Sydney.
AMT BARRETT.
For service between Seattle and Victoria
(N. America) and the ports of China and Japan
several huge steamers are being built at New
London, U.S. These vessels will be 630 ft. long
by 74ft. beam, and will have a gross tonnage of
21,000 tons, with an extreme load-displacement of
38,000 tons. They will be double-bottomed, will
have 8 decks—s of them stem to stern —and will
be the first vessels in existence to handle all cargo
by electric power.
“ Dram ” : Blue Mountain (N.S.W.)
nomenclature will heavily handicap our poets
when they may wish to “sing” of some of the
beauty-spots. Many of these have been named
after local tinkers and tailors, &c. Thus, accord-
ing to the guide-book, there are “Smith’s Glen,”
called after the worthy Smith of the “Cheap
Cash Store ; ” “Jones’Outlook,” after the town-
baker; “ Bobson’s Pass,” after the livery-stable
proprietor. Also, the “ Bung Cascade.” after the
local Boniface.
Brisbane Courier lately libelled Charters
Towers thus :
In Gard-lane there are six or seven places each fitted
with 15 windows, at each of which a Jap. woman is regu-
larly seated. The windows at which they sit are not
glazed, but enclosed with wire-netting, so that the
Japanese ladies can readily converse with people outside.
The Towers press is most indignant, and alleges
that the aforesaid houses only contain 18 windows
and seven Japanese occupants. Which is only a
way of saying that business is a bit dull in the
Towers just now and doesn’t flourish as it did a
little while ago. But why should the Brisbane
press, which is the backbone of the Jap.-import-
ing party, throw stones at towns that suffer
through the success of the Jap.-influx policy ?
“The prettiest peerage scandal,” writes
The Bulletin’s London correspondent, “we have
had for a very long time threatens to open in the
Divorce Theatre at an early date. Quite a world-
celebrated peeress had a millionaire-lover of a not
inappropriate name. A lesser peeress stole him,
or—allowed him to steal her. The greater peeress
heard, and with characteristic Othello-ish femi-
ninity gave the rival’s husband points for a trap
that succeeded. A ‘ Drama of Divorce ’is the
result, but the informer is also cut by her social
confreres. Blood will tell, however, and the two
ladies met in a stable. Riding crops were freely
used with such effect that the informer is now
suffering from ‘ a severe accident sustained in the
hunting field.’ Yes, blood will tell.”
“ Barfcle Frere was before me and before
Rhodes, and almost his first speech in Capetown
was that the dominion of England should stretch
from Capetown to the Zambesi. Rhodes is not an
innovator ; he’s a millionaire.”— Sik Hercules
Robinson, speaking of the late Cecil Rhodes, in
1896.


AN EFFICIENT
6/-
FILM CAMERA
m
THE BROWNIE.
Not a toy. Takes splendid photographs,
2j by inches. Complete with hand-
book of instructions.
KODAKS from 6s. to £8 18s.
OF ALL PHOTOGRAPHIC DEALERS, or frrnn
KODAK, Limited & Reduced.
The Block, %8U Collins Street, Melbourne.
Send for illustrated price list and mention this
paper.
HIS RUPTURE
GURED.
Engineer on the Midland Railway
Restored by the Wonderful Rice
Method.
One of the well-known engineers on the Midland
Kail way, having been in their employ a longtime,
very interesting facts about how he
of a bad rupture by the Bice
Method. His name is George Jordan, and is in
good standing, so what he says for the benefit of
other railway men who are ruptured can be relied
upon as truthful and of value.
35
v v\Wa*
27, Bishopstone Road, Gloticestet,
Dr. W. S. Rice. July 21,1901.
Dear Sir,—l am very pleased to say that I am
cured of Rupture after using your treatment for
three months, having been ruptured for seventeen
years.
I have already spent a lot of money on treatment,
having paid one doctor sixteen guineas without
getting much good, and I had lost all hope of being
cured until I read your advertisement in Lloyd’s
Newspaper.
I acted strictly on your advice, and I have not been
troubled with my Rupture since the first week I tried
your treatment, and although I get a lot of shaking
about (being a locomotive engine driver on the
Midland Railway), I have not worn a Tru ;s for about
two months, and I do not feel the slightest weakness
now, and am enjoying better health than I have
had for seventeen years.
You can make what use you like of this letter, as
I am anxious for all sufferers to know of your treat -
ment; and I shalladvise all my friends afflicted with
this complaint to use it. as I know it will cure per-
manently.—Your faithfully, George Jordan.
The RICE Method of curing rupture is as near
perfect as anything could be, and a great many
remarkable cures have been effected. Every
ruDtnred railwayman should write Dr. W. S. Rice
to ■Stonecutter Street, LONDON, E.C., who
will send a FREE SAMPLE of his method, also
a complete and illustrated series of pamphlets
showing conclusively that his method cannot fail o(
a cure. It is ahome treatment at small cost with-
out pain, danger, operation, or an hour’s detention
from work. Do not fail to write for-either yourself
or someone you know to be ruptured.
T
THE LINK
INDS
5
La
X
»«iBO
J
B| t(
»»»»,
ii
|JH C LAUGA/^
ELECT
BELT
nt
l»IJ
toon*
FOR WEAK MEN
or Women who want to regain their Health, who want to feel like they did before misfortune overtook them, we offer a Book which
will show you the Road to Happiness—a book which is brimful of the things you will like to read, which will give you courage
and enlighten you as to the causes and cure of your troubles. It will point out the pitfalls, and guide you safely to a future of
strength and happiness. It is beautifully illustrated. It tells what others have suffered, and how they have cured themselves.
It is Free. We will send it, closely sealed, without marks, if you will send this ad. If you are not as well as you ought to be,
send for it to-day.
DR. M C LAUGHUN’S ELECTRIC BELT
When advised by us, cures, to stay cured, Lame Back, Bheumatism, Weak Stomach, Dyspepsia,
Sleeplessness, Physical Decline, or any breaking down of the Physical or Nervous System.
Right here, we want to warn the public against being taken down by articles sold and termed
klectnc Appliances, which, upon investigation, turn out to be mere subterfuges, and even poor imitations.
There is only one Electric Belt in Australasia that possesses a constant, lasting Electric Current, and
* V, a ™ 01, P a / ter tae ,n( > Bt exhaustive examination, and a practical demonstration, that the highest officials
or H.M. Customs Department consented to permit Our Belt being passed as an Electric Appliance. All
others are classed as simply Wearing Apparel, and, of course, can have no standing as “Electric” Invigor ators.
J° u know ’ we know, that ELECTRICITY will give you Vigor. It is the steam power of your body, and when you are
full of it, you must be healthy. Properly applied to the human body, Electricity is the Grandest Healer and the most Potent
Remedy for all Functional Weakness, and it will restore Vitality to the entire system. Enlarge the poor, depreciated and worn-out
tissues, and when you do this then you must be a strong, healthy man or woman.
YOU CAN JUDGE FROM WHAT OTHERS SAY.
ft BHD 6HSE. I AN OLD MAN MADE TO FEEL YOUNC. ITHEY COME EVERY DAY
Launchley, Uralla, N.S.W.
Dr. McLaughlin supplied me with one of
his high-grade Belts in February last, and
I have worn it according to its directions.
The first night or two I felt much worse,
and felt inclined to throw it away, having
used before some of the so-called Electric
Belts, and derived no benefit from them.
Persevered with the Dr. McLaughlin Belt
for one week, and derived the greatest
benefit from it, and consider that it has
absolutely cured the Lame Back from
which I suffered for many years, more or
less.
A. J. GREENLAND, J.P.
Bendemere, N.S.W.
March 31st, 1902.
The Dr. McLaughlin Company,
Dear Sirs,—In answer to your letter just
received, when I ordered a Belt I had a
bad back, and also weariness in the morn-
ing. Now, after wearing your Belt about
four hours a day, my back is all right, and
I feel quite fresh in the morning. The
weariness has also left me, and the Belt
has done me a great deal of good, con-
sidering I am 72 years of age.
Yours truly,
(S'gued) JOHN DIXON.
Nyngan, April 6th, 1902.
The Dr. McLaughlin Company,
87 King-street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—ln accordance with your re-
quest to send you a report of my condition
at the end of thirty days, I am very
pleased to be able to tell you that lam be-
ginning to feel a very marked improve-
ment. For the past fortnight I have been
feeling splendid, and am able to eat and
sleep well, and get up fresh and lively in
the morning, so don’t think I shall be a
great while now until I am all right again.
It gives me great pleasure to be able to tell
you how I am improving, and trust that
ere long I shall be able to give you still
better reports.—l am, yours gratefully,
W. LAWRENCE, Nyngan.
Don’t those letters set you thinking? If you will call at our offices we shall be glad to show you and tell you how r/m-
Cure after all else fails. If you are not close enough to call, write to us; only don’t delay, as delays are dangerous
CONSULTATION AND ADVICE IF YOU WILL CALL OR WRITE FOR IT.
Bells
m
oo
CJI
C 3
i
CO
m
co
Hours:
0 a m. to 9 p.m.
When you use our Belt, then you don’t need any more medicine. The electric current
from it will give you all the assistance you require. If medicine had been what vou wanted
not need a Beit now. It don’t take the wisest man to see through this* wanted,
generated
you would
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
I of the biood,and ena-
bling ili, constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of antsmia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
beautiful and interesting
LANCET "A
preparation
BRITISH MEDICAL JOUP.NAL.-“/«/iaj all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion.and
it does not blacken the teeth"
5011) BY CHEMISTS AIL THE WOULD OVER
WHOLESALE: Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
WONDERFUL
CURES BY
ELECTRICITY
Chronic and nervous
diseases of men and worn- '
en yield to the influence'
of the electric fluid, when,
medicines fail to give re-
lief. There is no mistake
about this for we have
grateful testimony of hun-
dreds of reputable people
T*f i
Yi
i n all parts of the world who have used Dr. Pierce’s famous
American Electric Belt and proved the truthfulness of
our claims. Reader, if weak, nervous ; tired of drugging
the stomach and paying doctors* bills, write today for
I3OOKLET No. 2,” enclosing stamp, and you will learn of
the greatest remedy of modern times. Address, —PiprrP
Electric Co., 206 Post St., San Francisco, U. S. A. or
W. H. Soul & Co., *6O Fitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
‘ l ‘° OEFY COMFBTXTIOIXr.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
SPIRITS.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
SLATERS
DETECTIVES.
1 BAS INCH ALL S T EC
ACKNOWLEDGED by both the Press and
the Public to be the Finest Organisation
of Male and Female Detective Talent in the
World for Private Inquiries. Representatives in
every town on earth. Consultations free.
HENRY SLATER, Manager,
1 Basinghall-street, London, England.
Cables, “ Distance,” London.
A GIFT FOB THE LADIES.
fgh
We make this
Special Ofler
to advertise
our
Ostrieh
Tips.
5/-
The Bunch
Post Free.
TWO VERY SUPERIOR
TIPS, with OSPREYS,
in black, white, orcream.
WRITE TO-DAY.
SEND POSTAL NOTES. worth 10/6.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bourke & Swanston sts.. Melbourne
- LADIES.
WRITE FOR MY ILLUSTRATED BOOK CON-
CERNING YOURSELVES. Post Free, 3 Stamps.
Address— G.E.B.. 147 Collins St„ Molb.
Svdnev D.T.’s Capetown correspondent
on the return of Cohen, after his long exile, to
Jewannesburg: ...
This is an army of stalwart Britishers, who have re-
turned to their long usurped heritage, and who will be
prepared to defend it to the last drop of their blood.
And it isn’t intended for sarcasm either.
F. P. Winter, who acts for Gov. Le Hunte
in Papua during the latter’s leave, is a Victorian
bv birth, but was educated in England. He spent
some years as a solicitor in Queensland. Ordi-
narily a rolling stone, he has stuck closely to New
Guinea for over a dozen years. He is a barrister
of Fiji and has ranked as Attorney-General in
New Guinea. Not much law is needed there
except in the matter of title deeds. Winter
facetiously (and perhaps truly) says, “ Only jus-
tice is wanted here.”
One Vic. Minister brought some con-
vincing arguments to bear on a few reformers in
his one-horse township. They were the chairman
of the local education board of advice, two
members of the water-trust, a very inflated
member of an expensive royal commission which
meets mostly for the purpose of joining in mutual
whisky at public expense, and the mayor, with a
yearly allowance for drinks. “Say, old man,”
sniggered the education guardian. “You’re in
for a rough time, ain’t yer ? ” “ Strikes me we
all are,” said the Minister. “The Government’s
got to do something, and it’ll have to be pretty
sweeping. It’s fairly certain that we’ll have to
do away with these useless boards of advice, and
old Burton’s talking about appointing three
experts as a water commission—he’s getting so
full-up of the trusts. As everybody’s singing, out
about royal commissions, they’ve got to be wiped
out; and Peacock’s bringing in a Bill to stop
mayoral allowances. Says he can’t see any good
in buying drinks with ratepayers’ money.”


RGsenss
Coronation Spoon
A Special Treasure to British
People in Far-off Lands.
Size
of Spoons :
4 J4&6#
In Solid Silver or Gold. Price from 8/-* post free. Designed
and manufactured by Pearce and Sons, Silversmiths, Hud-
dersfield, England, by whom it is being sent to all parts of
the World.
liver
historic Sift for 1902.
If you have an 1837 Souvenir of Queen
Victoria's Coronation you know its
value, and will be anxious to secure
early the choicest Historic Souvenir
of KING EDWARD VII. This
registered emblematic spoon is a
fg
new departure in souvenirs: a rare combination of_ the
beautiful, valuable, historic, and useful. No marriage
presents will be complete without a set of these emblematic
spoons. A gift for every Child of the Empire born in
this Coronation Year. No Souvenir could be more highly
appreciated. Send for illustrations of Sizes and Prices.
The Historic GHSt of 1902.
Description— The Bust of the King, surmounted by His Crown
the reverse hearing the Rose, Thistle, and Shamrock—Great Britain and
freland these support the Royal Monogram, E.R. VII., 1902, and are up-
held by Iris-like leaves, each representing one of our Great Possessions;
the leaves uniting form the Empire Stem. The Roots of this Empire
Plant run round the Royal Arms, the Emblem of our Constitution,
right into the Heart of the Peoples.
Special Attention and Care given to
Golonial and Foreign Orders.
5Ti« Colonials and those Abroad will affect a real Saving of Money in
a purchasing direct from Messrs. Pearce & Sons. Send for their
Pictorial Price List of Solid Silver Novelties and High-Class
Presents.
PEARCE & SONS, Silversmiths, &c.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
hfg
s
hfg
Amusements.
T H o E , ® ROY A L, SYDN EY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson
i^ eniDg ’ at 8 - Wednesday Afternoon, at 2
SEASON OF 6 WEEKS ONLY of J. 0. Williamson’s
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
A RUNAWAY GIRL,
A COMPLETE AND EMPHATIC TRIUMPH.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
Lyceum
Lessee
THEATfJE, SYDNEY.
o Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT’S
Phenomenal Spectacular Attraction,
IN SIGHT PAUL’S.
POPULAR PRICES—3s,, 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDREY.
Sole Lessee MAUD WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING, at 8.
CONTINUED SUCCESS of
THE WOODS-WILLI AMSON COMPANY
in the Greatest Play of Modern Times,
THE CATES OF BONDAGE.
ALFRED WOODS, MAUD WILLIAMSON, and a
Specially-Selected Company.
POPULAR PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
N E WBURY-S PAS A POPS.
CENTENARY HA LL,
SATURDAY
and
***——WEDKTESDA.Y.
ATTRACTIVE PROGRAMMES.
ARCHIBALD NEWBURY, Manager.
yiCTOR J. DALEY TESTIMONIAL.
Under the Patronage of the Governor-General, Lord
Hopetoun, and the Premier, the Hon. John See.
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY, THURSDAY, MAY 15,
A BOHEMIAN NIGHT
to VICTOR J. DALEY.
Best Programme yet provided for a Town Hall audience.
ALL STAR ITEMS
by the pick of the Musical and Dramatic Professions.
The Managers of the Palace and other leading Theatres
are kindly lending their CHOICEST ARTISTS in MOST
POPULAR TURNS.
A Gallery of Quaint Pictures.
Poets, Artists, Sculptors, Singers, Composers and
Actors and Actresses will buzz on and off the platform.
Plan at Nicholson’s. 2s. to all parts of Hall.
Hon. Treas.
/ WILLIAM MARTIN.
\ W. J. SPRUSON.
Hon. Sec., J. S. RYAN.
T ' V ,® L ' . THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards
SATURDAY, MAY 10, First Appearance of
HARRIS WALTERS, Eccentric Comedy Sketch Artist.
Enormous Success of
THE PERMAN TRIO, PEGGY PRYDE, THE JACKSON
FAMILY, CALLAHAN and MACK,
Maud Hewson, Prof. Davys, Gallando, Sam. Holdsworth
Dan. Conroy, Geo. B. Alexander, Fred. Bluett,
Phillip Marks, James Opie.
Prices—2/6, 2/-, 1/6, 1/-, and 6d. Early Doors 6d. Extra
Box Plan at Paling’s. Acting Mgr., A. MIDDLETON.
RICKARDS’ NEW O PERA HOUSE
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p m
TOM WOOTTWELL.
BARNEY FAGAN & BYRON HENRIETTA
MADAME LOTTY, LENTONS,
EMILY LYNDALL, RAY JONES,
The Great American Novelty, NET BALL.
Prices—2s. 6d., 25., Is., and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
DIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees .. .. Messrs. Williamson, Lee & Rial.
UNDER THE DIRECTION of EDWIN GEACH.
LAST TWO WEEKS of Mr.
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY and his LONDON COMEDY CO.
ANOTHER GREAT LAUGH-MAKER,
WHY SMITH LEFT HOME.
Prices, People and Play, Popular, 35., 2s. Is.
A. COWAN, Acting Manager.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee.. .. .. Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hendv. Treas., Julius Grant.
CONTINUED SUCCESS of
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, headed by Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN,
In the Latest Adelphi Sporting Drama in 4 Acts,
THE FAVORJTE.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Gkorge Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
A BRILLIANT DRAMATIC SUCCESS,
MISS JANET WALDORF,
as ROSALIND in Shakespeare’s Delightful Pastoral
Comedy, “AS YOU LIKE IT,”
SATURDAY, MAY 10, Miss Waldorf will appear as
JULIET in ROMEO AND JULIET.
Prices as Usual. *iSft Box Plan at Allan’s.
R INC ESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of .. Mr. Frank Thornton.
Representative .. .. Mr. Mayne.
MR. FRANK THORNTON and his LONDON COMEDY CO.
in the Funniest of Farcical Comedies,
FACING THE MUSIC,
Preceded by the Musical Farce in one act, A TEST MATCH
Prices, 55., 3s. & Is. Early doors to Stalls and Amphitheatre
Is. extra. Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’ and The Grand.
TW
\
h
A Wonderful power is placed at your
disposal in Hypnotism—the power to control
others—to relieve disease—to make friends
• —to make money—and gTatify your
ambition. You may become a commanding
master of humanity. In fact, there is so much
that »s wonderful to tell you about it that I have
written a book for that purpose. It ha* 31
illustrations.
An>one can be a Hyrnotlat It Is merely a matter of
knowing bow All possess the power—both men and women.
Some p-rsons exercise a light hypnotic Influence unconsciously
Nodoubt you have met such people. They are the kind woo
Succeed In the world .with no apparent effort.
By a knowledge of Hypnotism, bad habits, nervous disease*,
bad dispositions, sleeplessness, and other afflictions may be
cured - often in a single treatment Backward or ungovernable
childr/n show marvellous improvement under hypnotic
treatment at the hands of their parents or others.
I have taught thousands of hypnotists in America. Hun*
dr tit o' delighted students in Australia already I reach
them through my book The system is very simple. There
is no reason why you should not become as good a Hypno-
tist as I am. Satisfaction guaranteed.
Send address in foil, together with three stamps. Yon
will then receive “ The Key to HypnotlfD," ported »
* plain cover. Absolutely Free,
PROnSSQH 0* £e BARRtNOTOHf
•A •♦rice'# Oreeteet Hyeaetlei
Einasleigh Mine, N.Q., (English-owned) has
been shut down on cabled advices from London.
Managing-director Woodhead went ’Ome some months
ago to raise more coin for mining work and fora tramway
(they all have tramways in N.Q.), but the drop in copper
has probably retarded negotiations. The Einasleigh is
away out in that God-forgotten district near the
Etheridge. Carriage-costs are so great there that, with
copper at £BO per ton, nothing less than 12 to 13 per
cent, ore will pay expenses. The universal Abdul Wade
and his camels pulled the mine out of a difficulty by
carrying goods at £6 instead of £l2 per ton as asked by
the white carrier, and now most of the latter are working
for the same Abdul, i.e., when he can’t get anyone else—
.-for the N.Q. teamster won’t work like an Afghan. A
"smelting trial was made, lasting some two or three
months, to show that the ore could be smelted, but want
of decent flux made it a tough job. Some 50 per cent,
matte was made and is being teamed to Townsville at
long intervals ; smelting is not likely to be resumed there
again pending better communication. A lot was thought
of the Einasleigh in Q. some two years ago, and now it
has apparently followed the fate of Chillagoe. Some day
the lesson will be hammered into speculators that the
situation of a mine more often than not has as much to
do with the making or unmaking of it as anything else;
without transit facilities it is hopeless for the best of
mines to pay, as witness some of the Cloncurry shows.
• » • ■*
“ Anakie Sapphire Mines (12 miles from Anakie
on the O.Q. line) is,” writes a Bulletin correspondent,
“ undoubtedly the pick of Queensland’s gem-fields. Gems
— i.e., sapphires, emeralds, rubies, zircons, amethysts
(also add diamonds) —are found in patches over an area of
about 200 square miles. As usual with new Australian
products, encroachment on the preserves of big rings, as
well as prejudice, has kept the gems at a low figure,
though gradually they are coming into prominence. They
are of all shades of color, and a glance at the collection in
Brisbane Museum will convince as to their intense bril-
liancy and beauty when cut and polished. Prices range
from ss. per oz. to 2s. 6d. per carat. Population of field,
about 90. Strange as it may seem, though about £7OOO
comes on to the field from buyers annually, it does not
possess a solitary pub. or a Chow gardener. At Anakie
railway siding there is a miserable-looking edifice which
is run as a pub. No rain here for two years, and the
country looks \yretched. Miners should hold aloof for
better times.”
* • * •
Weinburg startled Q. shareholders in Chillagoe
when he told them that fat salaries would not affect the
question as to whether or not the mines could be made to
pay. If the mines can’t stand £20,000 a year in salaries
there is not the ghost of a hope of their ever paying a
fraction per cent, on the capital.
• * * - *
A N.Q. correspondent: Garnet railway is
just getting the finishing touches. Most work at the
Garnet itself is being done in the open cut; they ought
to be ready for ore-breaking by the end of May or a little
later. It is rumored that the railway contractor (who,
not having been paid cash, is deeply interested in the
concern) is anxious to get his navvies on to the surface
work. There has been a satisfactory development in
Potter’s shaft. It is impossible to say how long it will
last, but before very many weeks things will at least
look a good deal better for this co. An old N.Q.
battler, Harry Faasch, one of the proprietors of the
Garnet, had a fatal fall the other day, and passed
out in a few hours. The men are almost desperate at
Chillagoe. Very few have been taken on, either there or
at Mungana. Chillagoe prospects don’t get any better.
——Smith’s Creek (tin) must be in warm hands in Ade-
laide and elsewhere. Shares (I-600ths) have sold beyond
£l2O. Three months ago they could be got for £2O. The
thing is to go into a co. ; each syndicate share takes 100,
and carries the right to 25 at £1; the balance reserved.
Piether, late of Mt. Garnet, is manager. There is both
wash and lode ; but in the absence of water (the drought
is troubling most N.Q. tin-getters) only the lode is being
worked; and as to that nothing is available but vague
gushes. From here it looks like a cleverly-worked boom.
* • * *
Mt. Morgan directors say they will shut down
altogether in a month unless rain comes. Shares
slumpy.
• * r- * •
Smith’s Creek, the latest N.Q. tin-find, is
located on a drought-stricken sandy desert with very
little timber, and that practically useless. The only
development done to date is a shaft sunk 70ft. on lode,
and another 40ft., also on lode. The show is a good one,
as surface shows go.
» * * *
Mt. Garnet to-day, writes a correspondent,
presents a sorry spectacle of copper-stained misery. The
majority of its inhabitants are unemployed; smelters
still hung up, also the mine underground. Present
operations are confined to the open cut, where the cost
to date has been enormous. With the crash in copper
the knowing ones of the North are turning their atten-
tion to tin properties and feverish haste is shown in
securing all and sundry shows. The latest is Summer
Hill, recently formed in £5 shares, and apparently a big
low-grade lode.
3|e * * *
Little fresh is happening in connection with
N. Territory mining. The most interesting development
lately has been the erection, privately, of a rough-and-
ready reverb, furnace at the Daly. N.T. gold shows were
never so utterly given over to the Chinese as at present.
» * * *
The man who ever sent ore to a custom smelting
works and smiled when the returns came in would be
happy in Hades. And yet, in Australia anyhow, there
has been no money in the business. Almost all big
works have passed through two or three hands and have
generally shut up in the end. The Dry Creek (S.A.)
people (Australian Smelting Co.) did very well while they
handled Block 10’s wonderfully rich ore, but that was the
head and the tail of their luck; and t’other day the
whole outfit, which cost about £40,000, was sold for a
little this side of £3OOO. The Mutooroo, one-of the best
of the smaller copper shows of S.A., was sold at the same
time for £260. ,
* • * •
North Lyell: Visiting directors have dis-
missed the outspoken metallurgist, Trent, and his prin-
cipal assistants. Welsh experts condemn the reverb,
smelters. Proposed to erect blast furnaces provided that
another expert’s report on the ore bodies is favorable.
Like many other Australian mines, North Lyell will be
experted to death. The game is being played right into
the hands of the Mount Lyell co. They want the mine,
and they will get it on their own terms, sooner or later—
sooner than many people expect.
* * * *
“Sulphide” to The Bulletin: North Mb.
Victoria Goldfield (Tas.) is reputedly patchy, so in-
vestors stand off; still, it finds employment for a few,
and judging from late returns the patches are fairly
good : six men for five months’ work got two crushings
of 25 tons and 36 tons respectively, former yielding
lOlJozs. and latter 267Jozs. Reef pinched and work
abandoned ; this has always been the case here where a
long tunnel for a few feet of backs was not available, no
attempt at sinking having been made below water level.
But one mine (The Brighter Star) has gone below adjacent
creek level, and this only about 40ft. where there was a
short shoot of ounce stone left. Mine now full of water
and pumping plant removed. Adjoining the claim from
which above-mentioned crushes have been taken (Old
Montana section, formerly payably worked by old Mount
Victoria G.M. Oo.) is the Long Struggle mine, owned
and worked by a small syndicate which has erected a
5-head battery; monthly crushings of 25 to 30 tons have
averaged 2oz. per ton, and the claim promises to amply
reward the prospectors. The field being hilly, tunnels,
long and short, are in evidence ; but a decent shaft over
150 ft. deep is unknown. Had half the money spent on
two tunnels here been spent in sinking one decent-sized
shaft, say 500 ft. deep, those who hold that the gold does
not live down might have something whereon to base their
calculations. But, considering that 250 tons of 2loz.
stone were taken out at the lowest level driven in our
mines (300 ft. down from the top of the hill), and
they only went about 60ft. below this with shaft, I think
it needs more proof than that brought forward to allow
them to maintain their contention.
* * * *
Ovens Valley (Vie.) dredge last half-year
treated 168,287 cubic yards wash for 4870 z. or I.33grs.
per yard. Working cost said to be under 2d. per yard.
Deep ground, from which big returns were expected,
valueless. If ever co. pays divs. the amount will not ex-
ceed cost of flotation—of'co., not of dredge.
Long Tunnel (Vic.) amalgamation project cried
off. Every practical and financial consideration points to
the advisableness of the Long Tunnel and the Extended
combining and of the ground being worked from the Ex-
tended shaft. Companies cannot agree as to terms of
union, and have finally decided to continue working on
their own. This will mean a deplorable waste of money.
L.T. shaft to be sunk on the underlay, which will make it
a dog’s hind-leg affair. This will add materially to the
working-costs, and in the past L.T. has been one of the
most expensive mines in the world. True, it heads the
list of Vic. mines in divs, but it had a consistently rich
lode in length and depth on which it operated for over
35 years. With judicious economy in working and im-
proved equipment the same result could have been
attained from 50 per cent, poorer ore.
m * * *
Rickard, the clever literary Cornish-American
mining engineer, describes Bendigo in the Engineering
and Mining Journal. He regards it as a “ notable field,”
because its reefing record for 20 years is contrary to “ the
safe generalisation that, ta’.ing the world over, the total
annual production of gold has a value less than the tot al
of the money expended to obtain it by mining and mill-'
ing.” Bendigo’s production from 1871 to 1900 was
6,359,9160 z., divs. £7,878,865, calls £4,441,831, “so that
the actual profit made by all mining operations, success-
ful and unsuccessful, was £3,437,027 —about 10s. per oz.,
or 12 per cent, of gross yield. Mining, under these con-
ditions, is indeed a first-class investment.” All this is
very interesting, but is it not a tale of departed glory ?
Rickard theorises that “ the gold found within the zone
penetrated by the mine-workings was derived from
ascending solutions, which extracted it, by leaching, from
a deeper horizon, probably from a lower portion of the
great thickness of slates and sandstones, possibly from
some other rock.” On this theory, the deeper workings
ought to be the richest; but exploration has proved
otherwise.
• • * *
The recent disastrous Vic. mine-flooding has
started the A.M.A. to agitate for a conference of miners
and mine-owners to devise a scheme for making the
miners’ lot a little less risky. It is well known that many
Vic. alluvial mines are working alongside (and under)
awful bodies of water, lying in old abandoned workings,
the position of which is very imperfectly known. Some
of the co’s. are helping the conference proposal cordially ;
others are hanging back. There are many things that
can be done to make escape easier; and the present
slipshod method of recording the positions of abandoned
workings wants straightening up right away.
* * * •
The epidemic of mine-accidents in_ Vic. lately
—especially at Bendigo—has pricked the Miners’ Associa-
tion to ask that it might be represented at any jnquest
in which the death of one of its members is being investi-
gated. It seems strange that the request should have to
made twice. In N.S.W. and Westralia it has long been
practice, and, on the whole, coroners have welcomed
lt -. R also the unwritten rule in both States that
miners shall constitute half the jury in a mine-accident
®ase. Also, it is the pretty general practice in both
States to pigeon-hole any verdict that reflects on any-
body but the dead man, and to think no more about it.
* * * *
The Bulletin some weeks ago said that it ought
to be somebody’s business to look into the remarkable
frequency of accidents in N.Q. mines. And after reading
the report of the inquest on the victim of a Mt. Garnet
explosion, it is surer of it. The evidence showed that the
miner went to the magazine and took his powder away in
a bag, with the knowledge of a shift boss 1 While
“ bulling ” a hole a spark got on to the bag of powder ;
and after that the inquest. The court screwed up courage
to say that shift-bosses should insist on the regulations
being strictly complied with (of course there is a regula-
tion against carrying powder round in bags) ; but, as
usual, it whitewashed the “ mine authorities”—as though
they are not to be held responsible for a shift-boss’s
action or inaction. But, altogether, what a beautiful
system it must be under which miners walk round among
spitting fuses with bags of powder under their arms 1
♦
William Lewis to The Bulletin :
“ Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neigh-
bor ” is apparently omitted from the Decalogue in the
Geil version. Tiie Bulletin’s defence of Ingersoll is
generous, but hardly necessary. The character of the
man who numbered amongst his friends Lincoln, Grant
and BEECnER will not suffer from the aspersions of
a preaching comedian such as Geil. Ingersoll lives
in the hearts of his countrymen. Opinions differ as
to the wisdom of his fierce attacks on religious dogma,
but men with warm blood in their veins feel only love
and admiration for the affectionate brother, husband and
father, the staunch friend, the good citizen, the patriot,
the fearless champion always of the friendless and
the oppressed. His fine forensic talents were ever
at the disposal, without fee, if necessary, of any
cause or case that enlisted his sympathies. When
Frederick Douglass, the brilliant negro orator, visited
Peoria, the great iconoclast’s native town, and
was refused shelter by every hotel in the place, Ingersoll
made of the despised colored man a welcome and honored
guest at his own beautiful home. “ What did that
edition of Voltaire cost to me,” said he, in reply to a
friend examining his library. “ Well, it has just cost me
the Governorship of the State of Illinois.” On 31st
January, 1865, the Thirteenth amendment to the Con-
stitution of the United States was passed through
Congress, thus placing the national seal on the tomb of
slavery. “In honor of this immortal and sublime event,”
cried Mr. Ingersoll, of Illinois, “ I move that the House
do now adjourn.” (Nicolay and Hay’s Life of Lincoln).
Decent Americans resident in Australia would welcome a
Bill for the Exclusion of the Great American Fakir,
religious or otherwise.
Melbourne still asks the interesting
Percival question: Where is the gentle Percy
and why is he there ?
The indoor-staff of Sydney Customs House
have in all worked more than 8000 hours overtime
since the Federal tariff was imposed without extra
payment, or even tea-money. Protecting the
revenue seems to have made them too tired to
protect themselves.
There was
a gasp of hor-
ror and indig-
nation when
Ketohener
sent home to
adorn the wall
of his dining-
hall the em-
balmed head
of the ten-
years -d ead
Mahdi. Still,
the Mahdi was
an enemy. But
recently a
London curio-
dealer adver-
tised the “re-
lics of a lost
British army,”
and said relics
consisted o f
the alleged
bones of the
men who made
the last stand
against the
Afghansat the
entrance to
the Khyber
Pass, when a
whole British
army, save
Dr. Brydon,
was wiped out
in its disas-
trous retreat
from Kabul.
All of these
facts were
carefully set
forth in the ad-
vertisement.
When the sale
came on hun-
dreds were
there to bid,
but the auc-
tion e e r an-
nounced that
the “relics”
would not be sold; they had been claimed by
the British Government and decently buried.
And there was anger and disappointment among
the bone-buyers.
“Flyer” to The Bulletin, from Norse-
man, W.A.:
I would be very glad if you would use your interest on
my behalf. lam confident that I can fly, with a little
assistance. No flying machinery required. Or, is there
any British Association? If so, then address through
the columns of Bulletin. Or is there any papers you
would advise to advertise in ?
We don’t care to offer advice, though perhaps our
correspondent might advertise on a fly-paper:


Discovered by Christopher Mudd, F.L.S., F.R.G.S., M.B.Ph.S., London, Botanist to the King of
England during His Majesty’s Indian Tour.
ECZEMAOLEAC
Cures this terrible itching complaint.
Not a grease. Does not stain the linen.
Full directions each jar. Jars, 4/6 ; post, 4/10
Used in the Melbourne Homoeopathic
Hospital with success.
fgh
FOR
) THE
HAIR
Not a Grease, purely Botanical.
Written testimony from well-known medical men.
One bottle in daily use lasts about 4 months.
"Anthos” prevents Hair falling out, Dandruff,
and Irritation. Bottles, 2/6 ; posted, 3/3.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND
Melbourne : Foy & Gibson and all Chemists.
Sydney: Pattinson & Co. (all branches).
Pah'K & Son, is 6 Pitt Street.
Depot: M. H. HoRWITZ, 34 Pitt Street.
New Zealand: C. L. Best, Ponsonby, Auckland.
Adelaide: Harris & Kemp, Arcade.
Brisbane: Taylor & Colledge Ltd.
Perth: Foy & Gibson.
Colonial Representative : Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
WOOL. PRODUCE. GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agenc
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
A.CT AS SELLINGS BROKERS ONLY.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in thd Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
''(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
• will be 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb ... : 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
. under ... ... Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing. Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, eta, HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement ia offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., eto.
AGENTS POE, McDOU GALL’S SHEEP DIP.
THE
‘PLUM’
the
PLUM’
r'J. ENTLLMEN. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE .GUARANTEE EACH RAZOIt FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Prick
/Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21a.
1 Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part op the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
ole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL, you enjoy your LUNCH
beorge and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAT.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
Single Room, with Full Roard, 8s- per
day, or JS2 2s. per week.
TERMS. The convenient
system of paying- for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had,
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.3 o—from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
Please mention this papev when orcteving.
fgh
fg
hfg
A BEAUTIFUL SOLID COLD RING SET WITH A CENUINE CARNET NO MONEY WANTFD
WliS :r i a t ,T n ex 0 p n ense P^ t y al ou Car, Vo a u nd l h W< * 8 t l“ d 20
lour friends and neighbours at Gd. a package (if you can? and whiTmil™ hen 8611 t! i e per um - among
collected and we will send you Absolutely t ree for your trouhie the ?hnvL d / 1 ? s the money vou have
and warranted Solid Gold, set with a Genuine Garnet ve,, described ring, which is Stamped
pay-both the perfume and Premiums Me sent Kree l/ 0r « I ! ar f« of ««T Wnd io
marvellous offer, and giving such unusual fine Dreminmn c^ar^e# 9 ur object in making this
o the public immediately, as we are satisfied that everyone BU P® rl Perfume into the hands
recommend it to their friends-we hare hundredsofun.ohoiLd Sd v' V' they will gladly
and address plainly written on a post oard, and we will send the perfume or,o Y ° U , '! m s y ,l end your name
Goods returnable if not sold. ’ XS ~ squired. We take all risk.
lie member wepay all Shipping Escpenies
—NATIONAL SUPPLY CO., 38 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W. Dept. B .A
Please mention this paper when ordering.
BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney
(Corner of
Clarence Street)
IS, 21, 23 King Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES . . .
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pumps, Turbine Fans.
(Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
Messrs. GREENWOOD & BATLEY LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors, Pumns. eto
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
lnsulated Cables, Wires, Tapes, etc.
i*
Given
away,
This Month,
to advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
2/6
The Bunch,
post free*
3 Black or Cream
Tips with Osp-eys.
Write To-day. Send Postal Notes.
MILKER'S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bourke & Swanston sts., Melbourne
WANTED
JF YOU ARE SUFFERING from any of the following
ailments, viz., Rheumatism, Sciatica, Vital Weak-
ness, Liver Complaint, Dyspepsia, Lame Back or
Debility, Kidney Disease or any Organic Derange-
ments, we want you to wear one of our ELECTRIC)
BELTS, and when CURED to let other sufferers know
that our ELECTRIC BELTS will permanently CURE
when all other Remedies have FAILED. We prefer those
cases who have failed to obtain relief elsewhere. Send
us a description of your case, and size around the waist
next to skin. Address—
ARTHUR HALE & SON, Medical Galvanists,
44 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
London Address : 105 Regent Street, W.
RHE UMALGIA ’
rphe new cure for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Gout, Sciatica,
Neuralgia, and similar ailments
IS
a lotion compounded from herbs
PURELY AUSTRALIAN.
3S. 6d. POST FREE.
Rlieumalgia Remedy Co., Bathurst,
Wholesale depot for N.S. W. and Q.
RAMEY’S
hfg
Dedicator.
FOR THE TREATMENT OF
Catarrh, Hay Fever,
Bronehitis, Influenza,
Catarrhal Deafness, &c.
/dedicator, with complete treat-
ment, only 10s. post free.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
229. 231 Collin*St. Melb.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17s t. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugrene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of"
06 RX CORO’s
t SSfeU cE °f ul F £•
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled* and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope.
Agents for Australasia —PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; Wholesule Agents for New South Wales—■
Australian Drug-Co., Ltd., O’Connell St., Sydney. All
Chemists, or Box 165, C.P.O.
CEB
DEAF
h
The New Patent
.SOUND DISCS
■ Completely overcome Deafness
Band Head Noises, no matter of
Bhow long standing. Are the same
r to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. $
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE'S
("HLOROPyNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, <fcc., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr. J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation. 11
TVEAR SIR, —I have been cured of Weakness and De
bility by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
! e pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
to this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
. hatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr. ROBERT
X. PARKHURST, Pitt-street, Sydney.
r GOUT v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
“Don’t shout”
" I hear you. I can hear now
as well as anybody.
"'How?' Oh some-
thingnew— The Wilson.'
Common-sense Bar-
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now, you can't see them ,
-they're invisible. I wouldn't
know I had them in myself,
only that I hear all right.”
The Wilson Bar-Drum is
really a substitute for the
yvorking parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wtre Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other de-
vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
CMAIW|g». 229-231 Collins &t., Help.;
fgh
fg
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
hf
With Patent RUBBER FEET
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English
American and made to order
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &c.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, dec.
DENYER BROS.. Surgical Instrument: Makers
281 CEORCE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
gh
Vapor Bath Cabinets.
Price, 25/-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6
Carriage paid to any railway station
on direct route in Victoria, N.S.W.,
and S.A., or any seaport town.
We also have a better quality
Cabinet at 45/- (Head and Face
Steamer free to advertise this line).
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
229-231 Collins-st., Melbouhnk,
Hypnotism
fgh
| Reader, why not he able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my-method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain ; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
a tlie mysteries and secrets
Jof the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
and is the most elaborate
artistic engravings,
and expensive thing
ever published. For
time I will send thi
cent work FREE,
receipt of 6d. (-tamps)
postage. Order to-day
to Hypnotize. It is a
a life-time. Address-
: the Kind
a short
i magnifi-
sealed on
i to cover
and learn
chance of j
gf
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dr. LANGSTON’S
VEGETABLE CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS
A Tested and Infallible Remedy,
Within the rea'-h of all, can be given SECRETLY.
NO FAILURES. CU3ES GUARANTEED.
A genuine Home Treatment without dangerous hypo-
dermic injections. Call or write for treatise, posted,
two stamps. Prepared only at the Laboratory of
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C.S. Eng:.,
68 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
NASAL POLYPUS
and Similar Growths in the Nasal
and Post-Nasal Passages . . .
CURED WITHOUT OPERATION.
Hundreds of cases successfully treated. Write for
particulars to . . .
NEWHAM WATERWORTH,
Edward-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Fop Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest,
ORIMAULT & Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists.


UNDER THE ROYAL PATRONAGE OF
H.M. THE QUEEN OF GREECE,
H.R.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE.
H.R.H. THE DUKE OF SPARTA.
ghfh
H.R.H. THE DUCHESS OF SPARTA.
H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHENLOHE.
H.R.H. PRINCE GEORGE OF GREECIr.
(High Commissioner oj Crete, &c., &c.)
EDWARDS’
HARLENE
FOR
THE
HAIR
m
r
Photo d specially for the " Harlene .to., hy Langfler, Bond St., W,
Haymarket rheatre, London.
Miss JULIA NEILSON
writes —
“ / am at -present trying your ‘ Harlene ‘ for my
hair , and I find it one of the best Hair Tonics and
Restorers I have ever used , and I have tried many.
Will you kindly send me two more bolt/'--.''
THE GREAT HAIR
PRODUCER and RESTORER.
THE FINEST DRESSING SPECIALLY PREPARED AND
DELICATELY PERFUMED.
A LUXURY AND A NECESSITY TO EVERY MODERN TOILET
“Harlene” Produces Luxuriant Hair. Prevent its Falling Off and Turning
Grey! Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the Beard and Moustache,
The World Renowned Remedy for Baldness. For Preserving,
and Rendering the Hair Beautifully Soft, for Removing Scurf Dandruff, &c,
? also for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour.
H.R.H. PRINCESS
Crown Prince’s Palace, Athens.
MARIE OF GREECE
writes “Messrs Edwards’ Preparation, ‘Harlene’ for the Hair, has given entire
satisfaction. H.R.H. wishes six more bottles of ‘Harlene sentas soon as possible.
Kitegyhaza, County Bikis, Hungary.
COUNTESS DENIS ALMASY
wr ;tes—“ Please forward me three more bottles of ‘Harlene,’ as I am particularly satisfied
with the two bottles sent me to Switzerland, and have been using it ever since.
Full Description and Directions for use in Twenty Languages supplied with every
Bottle 1/-, 2/6, and (three times 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle, from Druggi t., ~
' all over the World.
r
* Mr*
*
Photo’d specially ior the “ Harlene Co., hy Langfier, Bond St., \V.
Gar-tick Theatre , London.
Miss VIOLET VANBRUGH
wt ites —
“/ am very pleased to testify to the excellent
qualities 0/ ‘ Harleneit is most refreshing and
invigorating and I have found it very Stimulating
to the Growth o 1 -my Hair.
“ P.S.—I hope fate will never take me to any
quarter of the globe where I should be unable
to procure ‘ Harlene.' "
EDWARDS’ »HARLENE” Co., 95 & 9t>, High Holborn, t-ondon, W.C
GENERAL ELECTRIC
COMPANY.
Capital - - - £5,250,000.
Manufactures the Highest Grade of Electrical Machinery
THEIR NAME IS A GUARANTEE.
Dynamos, Engines and Motors up to 250 H.P. in Stock.
Lighting and Power Plants for Immediate Delivery.
Arc and Incandescent Lamps and Supplies of all kinds.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.,
Electrical Engineers and Contractors,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE AND SYDNEY.


INDIGESTION
POISONS .
THE BLOOD
as surely as a serpent’s bite,
It lessens brain power, lowers
vitality, produces languor,
sleeplessness, nervous depres-
sion, and is the source of
aching heads and weary limbs.
THE KEY TO HEALTH IS
good digestion, and Mother
Seigel’s Curative Syrup gives
that assuredly. “I suffered
from anaemia, nervous debi-
lity and acute dyspepsia,”
says Mrs. E. Wilson, 10,
Little Riley Street, Sydney,
“ and was treated by two doc-
tors without avail. My health
was thoroughly re-established
by nine bottles of
-MOTHER
w CURATIVE
SYRUP
Tails. Plaits.
gf
try orders.
itHl
wfi
fi :
FRINGES, Best Natural Curly Hair, 3/6, 5/6,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each. TAILS' and PLAITS,
20in. loner, 5/6, ; Extra Thick, 7/6 : 24in.,
10/6; Extra Thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings Worked Up, 2/6 per oz
Don’t be misled. Our Plaits and Tails are
twice as thick as sold elsewhere at same
price. Send Color of Hair. “ Only ONE
Address”:— W. H. WIGZELL.
110 WILLIAM-ST., Corner of Palmer-st.,
Sydney. Cable trams will stop at door. All
work guaranteed Illustrated catalogue
post free. Prompt attention given to coun-
Wigs made on shortest notice.
1
ai
ntf?
li "sanitas” t&
'VA
"SANITAS
••’•nVi’M/'.
SANITAS"
OUR TWO RECISTERED TRADE MARKS
SANITAS”
NON POISONOUS.
DOES NOT STAIN
| DIs !NFECTANT, ANTISEPTIC.
! AND DEODORANTcombined,
| PEOPLES HEALTH IS a NAT ion's WEALTH
; THE sanitas company limited
Lj3 BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON.E
s
FLUID
I/-
ALSO
Powder, Soaps,
Sulphur (Fumigating) Candles,
a ™d aii kinds of Disinfectants.
(Ihe list of ‘Sanitas’ preparati- ns is now so great as to coni'
prise a complete antiseptic and disinfectant armamentarium.
Tlie composition of most of these is based on ‘Sanitas ’ a
deservedly popular pleasant, and moreover active compound “
—Lancet, August 24th, 1895, p. 501.
“HOW TO DISINFECT.”
Book sent FREE on application.
OF ALL CHEMISTS. AND
The “SANITAS” Co., Ltd., Bethnai Green, London.
PHOSFERINE
The Greatest of all Tonics.
ƒgh
Phosferine is the most powerful Nerve and Recuperative
Tonic known. It removes Mental Depression, want of Tone and
Nerve Power. It has remarkable Health-giving, Strength-giving,
Energising, and Rejuvenating properties.
No other Medicine has received such absolute proof of its
extraordinary properties in restoring Shattered Constitutions, and
in giving back to the prematurely aged New Life and Energy.
It is an unfailing remedy for Neuralgia, Nervous Dys-
pepsia, Anaemia, Brain-Fag, Depression, Impoverished Blood,
Rheumatism, Sleeplessness, Indigestion, Influenza, Nervous
Headaches, Debility, and all disorders consequent upon a
reduced state of the nervous system.
ROYAL COMMANDS.
Phosferine enjoys the distinguished honour of having been supplied by commands to
MEMBERS OF THE BRITISH ROYAL FAMILY.
H.I.M. the Empress of Russia.
H.M. the King of Greece.
H.M. the Queen of Roumania.
H.I.M. the Dowager Empress of Russia
H. S. H. the Hereditary Princess olßeiningen
w w w w w
I.H. the Grand Duchess Olga of Russia.
R.H. the Crown Princess of Routnania.
I.H. the Grand Duchess Serge of Russia.
R.H. the Grand Duchess of Hesse.
I. H. the Grand Duchess Xenia of Russia.
And the principal Royalty and Aristocracy throughout the World.
No other Medicine has been awarded this unique distinction of Royal favor,
and it speaks volumes for the wonderful restorative properties of Phosferine.
CURES
Neuralgia,
Sciatica,
Lumbago,
Gout,
Rheumatism
Impaired
Vitality,
Debility,
Brain Fag,
Weakness,
Nervous
Exhaustion,
Melancholia,
Impaired
Digestion, etc.
m
m
V
*/a
A
Vitalizing:
Tonic,
Imparting:
New Life
and
Energ:y
to the
Entire
System.
| CAUTION.
GENUINE PHOSFERINE.
Ashton & Parsons, Ld., 17 Farring'don Road, London,
the original and only genuine makers of PHOSFERINE find it necessary to
put the public on their guard against mendacious imitations of their well-known
medicine that are being offered for the sake of extra profit.
It is necessary, when purchasing Phosferine, to see that it bears the name of
the genuine makers, viz.:
Ashton & Parsons, Ltd., 17 Farringdon Road, London
PREPARED IN THREE SIZES.
ID®"" The Second Size contains nearly four times the Smallest Size.
The Genuine PllOS'ferine can be obtained from Washington H.
Soul & Co., Pitt Street, Sydney, and all respectable Chemists.
Wholesale Agents: SAYERS, ALLPORT A POTTER, SYDNEY.
MOIR’S
FRESH HERRINGS.
In 1 lb. Round Flat Tins.,
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
PURVEYORS BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO HIS MAJESTY THE KING*
My Melbourne correspondent, continues :
“ A country millionaire has at last allowed his
youngest daughter to marry the man of her choice.
Pa, himself, has been married five times, so he
shouldn’t grudge other people one pet lamb.
However, he was afraid idle young men wanted
his hard-earned money more than his gjirls, so he
said. As a matter of precaution, he made the
heiresses travel second-class when they took a trip
to England, so as to put fortune-hunters off the
scent. All the same young Miss came back
engaged, and, after much paternal opposition, has,
at last, gone to S’Africa to wed her sometime
fellow-passenger.
“A widower whose legislative duties took
him away from the society of his first partner, has
marriage again in view, and rises from a sea of
sympathetic telegrams, letters, and ‘ln Memo-
rian ’ symbols to sun his mournful self in the rays
of a widow’s smiles. The lady has a romantic
history. She lived many years under a retrospec-
tive ban before enjoying to the full her relict’s
fortune. The poor man had considered 20 years a
long enough time to rid his remaining half’s soul
of vanity and husband notions. The period is
past, and the widow emerges from her single-
loveiiness, and, it is said, is for frisking in the
matrimonial meadows again with the newly-
liberated legislator.
“English papers say that women are badly
wanted in S’Africa. Now, who would repine
when vacancies for wives go begging ? Here the
off-told tale is we have too many women. In the
Transvaal, too few. Girls should make haste and
catch the early worm. What about the Minister
for Home Affairs sending off a girl contingent
to the land where wives are wanted ? The
struggles of the designing Becky Sharpe in the
arid land of eligibles are pitiable. And the
quality of the fish caught grows poorer, as season
after season, the fishing is renewed.
“In some of Toorak’s most charmed circles it
is whispered that one lady, left a widow of wide
means, cannot marry again without the approval
and consent of the Trustees of the Will. And they
happen to be religious old gentlemen with very
good eye-sight, who have already negatived the
proposal of one gold-braided bachelor, and have
shortly to exercise their right of judgment on
another proposal.
“ Cecil Ward passing himself off as a doctor in a
recent comedy to get in touch with a pretty girl,
feels pretty nervous about pulse-feeling, tongue-
scanning, &c., but no more so than a real-life
budding saw-bones. Pill-and-powder ’prentices
tell queer stories of their troubles. One young
thing asked an out-door hospital patient to
‘loosen her dress,’ wishing to stethoscope her
breathing. He left the room for a minute, and
came back to find her struggling with the last and
least of her garments—a skin-tight, red-flannel
‘ bathing-suit ’ (so poor little ‘ Pills ’ describes it).
The doctorkin called a halt, much to the annoy-
ance of the patient, who said that she supposed if
she were 10 years younger he’d ‘ have took the
bother to examine her proper-like.’ But most of
the bother, the boys say, is caused by flutterers,
who unfasten a collar-stud, and then sit bashfully,
deaf to the timid hints of the would-be diagnoser,
that more ground must be gone over if he’s to
solve the secret of that ‘gnawing pain in the left
hip,’ or that ‘strange, hysterical sensation,’ fore
and aft of the diaphragm.
“Mrs. Martell, who has sought to solve the
difficult riddle of the Women’s Hospital dilemma
by securing the resident surgeon’s berth at £250
a year, takes up_ the lancet after a long spell of
the tame domestic arts and a short period of ill-
health. She had some experience at the same
institution in her bachelor period, when she was
the vigilant Dr. Margaret Whyte—a name that
stood for bookishness and schooling in the old
days. Mrs. Martell has no children. The
student’s concentrated air and lack of personal
adornment remain with her to this day, and she
returns to the doctoring trade with pleasant feel-
ings, and a howl from all the brother and sister
practitioners in the State. Three of the clever
Whyte girls run a college at Moonee Ponds.
“ Only one woman in Melbourne knows howto
manage a tea-room on true commercial principles.
If any of her charmers dally too long at a table
the delinquent is called to the desk and repri-
manded. Men and women are treated with the
same prompt and ready politeness; positively no
flirtations permitted. Weary women who are
rudely overlooked or treated in a haphazard style
at neighboring scone-coops are here made to feel
that their ‘continued patronage is desired.’ It
takes a J ewess to run any concern of the sort
successfully.
“It is noticed on ‘off’-days that as many
women patronise the bar as the tea-buffet under the
race-stand. At rush and hurry events they haven’t
time to work the familiar cafe trick of pouring out
spirits from the teapot, or having a drop of ‘hard ’
served in the domestic cup. They simply make a
header for the glass-counter and straightforwardly
quaff their fancy. One exception to this rule is
the fair angel who stocks her salts-bottle with
spirits before leaving home, and enjoys it in the
privacy of the retiring-room.
“Melbourne women are crazy to develop the
latest soft crimp—the real hair-wave—as pictured
in the Paris plates. One tale has passed to the
effect that the elegant soft crimp is to be pro-
duced by no less a means than the humble cot-
tager’s curl-rag ! What an awful picture is con-
jured up at the thought—beauty scurrying round
her bedroom in an aureole of projecting curl-rags,
or sleeping on silk cushions, with shadowy horns
above her fair temples. If I were a husband I
should certainly protest.
“Miss Lucy Kemp-Welch, whose colossal pic-
ture, ‘Horses Bathing in the Sea,’ was bought
for a matter of £3OO or so by the trustees of Vic.
National Gallery last year, has just been elected
a member of the Royal Society of British Artists.
She and Mrs. Jopling (English) are the first
women to be admitted to the select membership of
that body. The picture is a fine piece of work.
Our women artists, as a rule, make small progress
with the palette and brush. They don’t go in for
broad, breezy effects, but show narrowness of
vision and a certain painful small precision.
“The genial warmth with which Art is
encouraged in Melbourne nowadays is aptly illus-
trated by developments at a top-of-Collxns-street
building, originally designed almost exclusively for
studio accommodation. Longstaff and others used
to be located there, but their rooms have gradually
been taken over by a fashionable milliner, and the
only devotee of the greater but far less profitable
and expansive form of art now left is sculptor
Summers. And the enterprising milliner lady
casts longing and determined eyes on the large
and excellently lighted room which artist Sum-
mers still has the audacity to inhabit.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


G. BRANDAUER & Co.’s (Ltd.)},
CIRCULAR-POINTED PENS J '
Seven Prize Medals Awarded.
Neither scratch nor
spurt, the points
being rounded by a
new process.
Attention is also
drawn to their new
“CRADUATED
SERIES OF
PENS.” l
fĝ
Each pattern being made in jour degrees of flexibility and Points.
Ask your Storekeeper for an Assorted Sample Box of either series.
Works: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OP ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have talcen this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain o
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most con?
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption ha
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OE HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFE THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
Kf London, England, from which you will glean that
pour medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
eolds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
te mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, andyOu can confidently
fefer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
and. You can see for yourself what an immense success
It was. —Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
irrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Priday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
nuch interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
>ff the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
:rom a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
tupplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS* TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OE HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony to the won-
lerful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
nonths, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
: was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
.dvice, and tried other * remedies,’ without avail. I tried
'ours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
list dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
on a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
nay depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
vonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“Yours faithfully,
“ JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
learne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
ectly and rapidlv successful under circumstances which
indoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
he Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
Ifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
**I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
•
“Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
•
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.—ft. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
•
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, a,nd am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
•
“ My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
•
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous. —F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—o. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria."
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
•
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle. —W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria."
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” •
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.—JOHN 0.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W."
•
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
•
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine Of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
•
“Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
“ The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.— CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CUR~ED _ IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
44 The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequent!
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Viotorii
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchiti
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ao
countant, Uollins-street, and the effect that it had was si
marked that he has ever since been continually recom
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value o
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has easel
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people evei
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.' 1
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 3t
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose oui
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cqre spoken well of,
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a chile
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
4 THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemist*.“
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPEH
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W® G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser.’
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd, s Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
.ranch depot . office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
3->A.I*TO (Lais.© Illawarra), U-@Ei.3r
SYDMTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
fhghf
MAKERS 07
S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD"
AND
ILLAWARRA”
• t Bit AND Off,.
SOFT LEAD.
urcbasers of-all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CTANIPE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REPINERS of SILVER LBAiJ BJI.LIOV
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to P. S. Mokse, Manager, To Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
“ Retained when
ail other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
‘“Benger's Food*
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
Wenger’s
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive, and Digestible.
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere.
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
to find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Benger’s
Food ’ everywhere.”
“ If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.
The barque Wasdale fell in with a floating
lunatio asylum on her trip from Adelaide to
M.L. The stranger was a Frenchman, and sig-
nalled that she was on her way to New Caledonia,
but deolined to state whence she had come. The
Wasdale sent aloft the red ensign, and the cheer-
ful froggies responded, by flag, with “ Rats ! ”
They also intimated that they would give the
barque a tow along her weary way free of charge.
All the stranger’s sails were braced to leeward
instead of being slewed to the wind, and the fes-
tive orew were dancing fandangoes on deok when
last seen.
When Andrde and his two friends were
contemplating their attempt to reach the North
Pole in a balloon, the dangers were canvassed
from nearly every point of view; but no one
suggested the catastrophe which has happened.
According to a telegram from the search expedi-
tion the adventurous explorers descended some
distance from the Arctic circle, and were shot by
the Eskimos on stepping from the car of the
balloon—described by the latter as a boat they,had
seen floating in the air. The Eskimos probably
mistook the new arrivals for visitors from the
moon, and killed them from motives of fear.


>HE APPRECIATION of the by those
who have had an intimate association with it in
the home, centres attention on that which
constitutes the chief value of the A: OLI AN
—the inexhaustible source of pleasure it pro-
vides in the household.
It IS a solo orchestra, always ready for any occasion, and the playing of it requires no
musical skill. Overtures, symphonies, and entire operas can be played by the brain-
tired business man his wife or his daughter. The experiences all the
pleasure of hand playing, because he controls the expression, which is the soul of
music. If you wish accompaniments for dancing or singing, or if you wish to hear the
latest popular air you need only turn to your Jiolian.
The majority of those wh© hear the for the first time express
surprise, saying they have been unable to comprehend until then what
it was like. Many of our patrons, after using the JEolian, for six
months, go out of their way to tell us of the pleasure they have derived
from their purchases, evincing a degree of enthusiasm which leaves no
room for doubt as to their complete conversion*
This enthusiasm is the
rule, not the exception.
Why is it ?
Unquestion a oly ft sug-
gests that the yEolian
is worthy of your atten-
tion, and that every day
you delay your investi-
gation ofthe instrument
you are cutting your-
self off from a source
of pleasure about which
you might become
equally enthusiastic.
m
The unqualified
endorsement of the
AOLIAN
by practically every
MUSICIAN OF
PROMINENCE
IN EUROPE
AND AMERICA
assures its artistic
status.
We reproduce extracts from a few fetters from our patrons.
These letters bear the signatures of some of the most prominent people in this cour. ry,
. . “It is simply impossible for me to tell you all the pleasure and satisfaction I
experience in the interpretation of the sublime and melodious thoughts of some of the
greatest musical composers of the past and present.”
. . “Having had the .dEolian over ten years, changing it occasionally as improve-
ments have been made, I feel under no consideration could I be induced to part with
it. It is a soul harmomzer, eliminating the fret and care which business brings, and
for this reason alone worth its weight in gold.” s
**. an * s in , m y estimation the greatest musical instrument that has ever
been invented—greatest because it has brought all the best music practically within the
reach of every music lover. The famous composers reside no longer with the favoured
few. They are now at home wherever the iEoliau is. My Grand stands in my work-
ing den, not far from my desk, ever ready to soothe, to inspire, and to divert.”
The smallest instrument embodies the same principles, is just as perfect in construction, and nlavs as
many selections as the most expensive styles. JE olians may be purchased on the hire system if
You are invited to visit at our warerooms, if for no other reason than to learn more about this re"
markable instrument—what it is and what it will do. If you are unable tn ViT “15 i
interests you, we shall be pleased to send you a descriptive catalogue. ’ dth subject
THE CO. OF NEW YORK.
HENRY M. B/RGE & COj SYDNEY! 323 George St.
' MELBOURNE: 185 & 187 Collins Bfc
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
ƒgh
gh
%
REPEATING RIFLES
repeat. They don’t jam, catch, or fail to extract.
In a word, they are the only reliable repeaters.
Winchester rifles are made in all desirable
calibers, weights and styles; and are plain, par-
tially or elaborately ornamented, suiting every
purpose, every pocket-book and every taste.
WINCHESTER AMMUNITION
made for all kinds of shooting in all kinds of guns.
Winchester guns and Winchester ammunition are
FOR SALE BY ALL IRONMONGERS.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS Catalogue
French’s Acting Edition.
fgh
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Books Eree.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
Explorations in Civilisation.
BEING THE LETTERS OF AN AUSTRALIAN IN EXILE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
October 24th. —Ship approaching Aden, which
we ought to strike at dawn on the 26th. Since
the wondrous nightfall, five hours ago, the ship
has steamed through millions of jelly-fish, white
and green, shaped like those 24-button gloves
which make women in evening dress look as if
they wore thigh-boots on their arms. For days
there has been an ocean with its surface as
unbroken as a frozen sea. Sea-swallows have
perched for a minute and a dozen fools have tried
to maim the birds with their hats, so that the
brave wanderers flew away again unrested. There
were also recurrent rainbows on the long swells of
steely bow-wash—rainbows happening at the rate
of 10 to the second.
In these latitudes was the Bible born; in these
latitudes arose the myth of the Deluge ! I believe
the Mosaic religion and its history were designed
to force a moral code on a race naturally cruel—as
most Eastern races are—naturally selfish, as are
all the ignorant Jews I have ever met. In those
days every Jew was ignorant. The Jews could
find neither an educated man nor a leader from
among their own people. They had to await the
manhood of the alien Moses.
Moses, who had had the advantage of spending
his early manhood among the Egyptians, a most
clever and civilised race, and who was one of the
finest lawyers and sanitarians the world has ever
known—wished his people not to eat pork (a
shockingly unwholesome practice in a tropical
climate); and, as they were too brutally ignorant
to listen to him for hygienic reasons, lie wrapped
his sanitary ordinances in the robes of mystery,
and his followers did from religious fear that
which they would have refused to do for health’s
sake. He, or men as wise as he who preceded
him, knew that circumcision was necessary, in
vievv of the indiscriminate sexualism of the time,
but in order to secure the Jews’ obedience he made
them believe that the Almighty was unable to
recognise his people unless they were universally
mutilated.
And the Ten Commandments which bear in
themselves all of the principles of perfect govern-
ment and of the ideal community ! They had to
be brought down theatrically from Sinai and in
red fire and smoke. It was lucky for Moses that
stone was the writing surface of those days ; the
introduction of the Ten Commandments would
not have been convincing if they had been written
with a chawed pencil on the back of a telegraph
form.
But coming back to the rainbow, whose show-
place is the equatorialseas. TheChoaen Peoplesaw
itevery day in every oar-ripple, and yet believed in
its exclusive connection with the story of Mr J
Ararat Noah, R.N. The fact is these Jews
always had a mean view of Providence—a some-
body to be squared with two pigeons and a roast
of beef (which the priesthood probably embezzled
for family use); a Somebody that went in for con-
juring tricks and the deceptions of cheap hypno-
tists ; a Somebody who sent two she-bears to eat
42 children who were innocently enjoying them-
selves in the chivvying of Elijah ; a Somebodv
that turned hand-springs on the pavement of
Destiny.
By, tn® way, there is in London a picture of
Elijah being fed by ravens at the brook of Cherith.
A big, wretched-looking raven, who is twin
brother to the Central Australian crow, is flopping
over the prophet’s right ear and bears in his beak
a new cottage loaf —fresh from the oven. Other
ravrns are flying towards ’Lije—some with buns
and others with French rolls and Vienna bread.
The holy Scriptures do not state that the ravens
had stolen the bread, because that would make
Lije a receiver of stolen goods; nor do they
explain that the ravens were running a bakery on
co-operative lines ; but anybody who knows any-
thing of crows will regard the story with sus-
picion. And now it is discovered that the ancient
Hebrew for “Raven” is almost the same as that
4 r A l ?*- 1 -” Elijah then was supplied by an
Arab baker—and another yarn dies.
25th.—We Australians are mighty pushful.
-Here am I travelling on the nod, and in the
third-class is another Australian who is taking his
children to England. He has paid third-class
lare, and is now cursing the fact that the third-
class is not. the grand saloon. The commissaire
shrug , g6Q his shoulders as the passenger inter-
viewed him—half threateningly, half complain-
ingly, and then the passenger became altogether
threatening, and said he would write to the editor
of every Australian paper on the subject. This
had little effect on the commissaire and the
captain; but they were both kindly, peaceful
men, unused to noise, and they promised to better
that passenger’s condition. And that passenger
insisted on Australianising the French conditions
of the French ship. He demanded to be allowed
to spread marmalade and butter on his children’s
bread at the same time, and when that was
conceded he rent the air with his angry
wailing until the French cafe-habit was modified
for his sake, and special tea was made for
him. Then the agitation, which he had
begun a day after leaving his port of em-
barkation, changed to demands for pickles, and
after the pickles had been given him once, he got
them as a daily habit. After that he discovered
the presence of fowls in the coops, and called in-
dignantly for fowls; and the powers gave way to
him, and he had fowls and curries and whatever
he chose to call for. And his unconscionable
demands were ennobled by the fact that they were
dictated by his desire to perfect the comfort of
his children. Good men, all, were they—the
battler and they that were battled.
The saloons, almost empty to Colombo, are now
full mostly with Frenchmen and Frenchwomen
from the East. At the extreme starboard table
are two Spaniards—the recrudescence of Don
Quixote and of Sancho Panza. Norman and
Lionel Lindsay would rave over these unromantic
new births of old romances. Don Quixote goes to
Madrid—Sancho Panza to a town (I forget its
name) near the French border. Quixote has big,
imaginative eyes, the liar’s high cheekbone, the
nose of the visionary and enthusiast. Evidently,
all his molars are gone, for he chews his food with
his front teeth only. Sancho Panza is a dark, fat,
little man, his little beard and rudimentary mou-
stache of immature softness. A merry heart,
evidently; his table, where there are two French-
women in the party, laughs wildly whenever he
speaks. One of these women has the teeth of a
degenerate, wears evening dress—cut very low—at
breakfast, and, in the evening, walks the deck
with a highly-medalled officer from the first-class.
2Gtli.—During the heat of the last few days, I
have slept on deck at night, and, this morning,
awoke at 4 o’clock to see new scenes of wonder.
The sight was marvellous—a big, overflowing
moon, a sea of glass, and a sense of breathless
light. The air was almost dense enough to be
vapor at white heat. I walked to the forecastle,
and there was illumination above and rocky land
ahead, and ship-lights from all the world floating
up the Gulf to lias-Adan. Before daylight, all
the Noumean soldiers, in the third-class, were
awake and gambling. Two of them had a monkey
—a small, reverend thing, like a bishop. It had
great, white chin-whiskers, and a little, grave
face, lhe soldiers played with it cruelly, till it
shrieked.
The spar-deck became covered with clouted
Arabs, who lowered the stages for the coaling.
Among them was an Arab fireman with the face
of a tragedian, and in his shoulder the open
wound of a murderous and recent knife-stab. We
changed firemen at Aden, and later in the day I
met him ashore, fully dressed—a grave, tragic
man, with his pay safely in hand, ready for the
pleasures of the infested bazaar and such joys as
there are between Steamer Point and the Crater.
Aden,” says Kipling, “is like a barrack-
stove —and what he means by that no man
knows. It is just like Aden. There are enormous
hills of bare volcanic rocks, with intrusions of
lime. Not a blade of grass grows there of itself
not a tree. Arabia Petrea it is with a ven-
geance. The Government is trying to make a
garden on the sea-front —carrying water-barrels
on camel-carts for irrigation and bringing up the
vegetation by hand.
The brown sea-hawks at Aden—what glossy,
speedy, graceful pirates ! I have seen nothing
i er ies ® seven days. When the anchor gripped
the Aden shell I went ashore, breaking through
the scores of boats selling rubbish of the East at
high prices—leopard skins valuable rather from ihe
fact that a man could build lies for mother on the
alleged hunting of the leopard than from any
intrinsic worth. The boy who rowed me ashore
was a very dirty nigger with a very horrible skin
disease, which disgusted me so much that as soon
as the boat touched land I threw him half
a rupee and jumped ashore to avoid the finger-
touching of him. All the boys in the boats and on
the landing had attempted to bleach their hair
with lime, and were at various stages of success in
discoloring it to ginger. There were water-carriers
and camels in legions, and many other niggers,
who offered their services as guides, trying to per-
suade me to relent when I cursed them from mo,
by spying—“No money, master.”
“Then you love me and want to do this for
nothing/ 5 said I to one of these scoundrels.
Oh, master, no monney want, you give inc lil
present when say good-bye.”
I returned to the ship for my party, and took
them to a Parses store where I bought straw hats
for nine rupees four annas. This store was also a
drinking-shop. Even undertakers sell liquor in
the East. At a table near us and drinking blue
ruin was a sergeant of some English army de-
tachment. The gin had given him the jumps in
a quiet way. I asked him how long he had been
in the East.
“Nine year,” said he.
“Poor devil,” said I. “I’ll see you soon
again.” So I took my party to a near-by hotel,
and left them with long ice drinks and a punkah
to keep them cool, while they watched the life of
the dusty road and the baked coaling yards
beyond.
When I returned to the store I found the ser-
geant in company with the captain of a little if J-
ton steamer trading to Bed Sea ports; and we
three talked and drank, and were very merry. By-
and-bye entered a regimental doctor—a buibous-
faced youth exuding drink, and with an eye blood-
shot almost over all the surface, so that he seemed
to have the Union Jack in it, He told us to
drink up, with the lofty condescension of an em-
peror presenting a last year’s robe to a slave.
They talked of General Buller and, this being
the subject I am most ignorant of, I joined in en-
thusiastically, so as to promote argument and
dissension.
“ Buller’s had the hardest graft of the war,” I
said.
“ You know nothing about it—and you know
nothing about war,” said the doctor to me so
offensively that I replied :
“ All I know of war is to climb all over the man
who cheeks me.”
The doctor ordered another drink.
The sergeant’s devilish blue ruin seemed to
crawl round on the inside of his glass. We talked
politics and geology, and the arguments arising
therefrom produced drinks most fruitfully. We
sat there with all the life of the big store around
us; and the cruelly-silent Parsees—secret as Jews
and quiet as cats —padding around with glasses
and whisky.
The doctor —with the blood-gout in his eye be-
coming more and more like the Union Jack belly-
ing to the wind —said that he’d heard there were
a nice lot of girls aboard the outward-bound
Orient liner, and he proposed to go and see them
and kill a few. I replied that most of the girls
outward-bound from England were really at sea
to escape idiots, and that, therefore, the chances
of a man with a Union-Jack eye were doubtful.
At this the doctor gasped ; the Parsee merchant’
counting his money, chuckled; the 170-ton
steamer captain laughed aloud ; and the sergeant
looked pleased, but dazed. The doctor got over
the difficulty by ordering another drink all round.
Ihe ordering of drinks was his unfailing repartee,
and it was a more deadly one than we imagined at
the time.
He repeated liis intention to see the girls, and
the Red Sea captain advised him to send his
papers ahead by a fast packet, and follow with
himself in a wind-jammer. The doctor then gave
us two green cigars each and walked away in
great indignation.
The steamer captain left us a few minutes after,
promising to douse his flag to me when our ship
passed his in the Red Sea—and this he did later
in the day. So away he went, chased out of port
by his agents, who were always eager to throw
him into the red-hot sea to make his ship’s hold
sweat freight moneys.
. My sergeant and I left the store and turned
into the filthy collection of shops known as the
bazaar. Long and broad-tailed African sheep,
their heavy wool covered with dags, slept in the
shadows of the stalls; there was a very filthy
Arab baker, with a village settlement on each foot,
sleeping in the midst of his newly-baked batch;
the wind brought to us coal-dust mixed with the
fine atmosphere of camel dung and last year’s
mutton.
There come big, apple-bowed ships from Cardiff
with Welsh coals. They take back loading of sea-
salt which is made on the beaches by solar
evaporation and cheap labor. Lot’s wife became
salt in this country of bread-wages—the
phenomenon would have been impossible in
Australia with its Trades’ Union and the Mini-
mum Wage Act. The great, glistening white
heaps of salt flare along many miles of beach and
tire the eye.
Next the bakery was the public cook’s flat fire
of glowing ashes, quite 4ft. square; and on it
sizzled scores of little earthenware pipkins—each
with its own family’s stew of rice and shredded
carrot and leek and goat’s flesh, so saving many
scores of fires. There were the old unreliable
sellers of shredded betel and the vendors of
pomegranates and pigeons. Very small pigeons
were they and very cheap—2 annas each. That is
why the ancient Jews used them for sacrifice. I
took two pigeons out of the basket, and let them
fly, and the pigeon-wife broke into wailing and
curses; I gave her eight annas and she blessed me
till I felt 9ft. high. This is the real, genuine
bargain house for blessings; eighteen-pence or
less, say a rupee, will furnish a man with bless-
ings enough to last his lifetime, leaving some for
his family when he dies.
We soon exhausted the market, and had more
whisky pegs in the Parsee’s shop, and then I said
good-bye” to my sergeant, and fled to the tele-
graph-office to send my wires. I had left this
duty almost too long, and, by reason of the delay,
very nearly missed the ship.
. On the landing I found a Brown Incorruptible
in the person of a native policeman. He refused
a four-anna bit for some trifling service he had
rendered me, and said, proudly : “Me Guv-mint
man, sah ! ” But when I boarded my boat, he
said; “Me splendid pleesman—you give something
for drink ? ”
I gave him the four-anna bit, and he almost
boeame Incorruptible again : four annas was only
naif his regular price.
s l>ip leffc early enough to take us through
the b traits of Babel Mandeb by moon rise. Babel
Mandeb means “Gate of Tears,” owing to many
Arabian craft having been lost there. Periin
Island is on the port hand. Perirn belongs to the
English Government. The English Government
used to take anything that was not nailed down ;
it has recently suspended business in this line.
Of the bullocks which left Australia with us, all
but one have been killed and eaten. The sur-
vivor is leg-swollen from standing on his feet for
three weeks, and silly from endurance of sea-heat,
so that he tries to crush my hand against the
stanchions of his pen instead of licking the salt as
he used to. His long agony is nearly over; he
c to-morrow. My poor country-mate ! And
all this cruelty is unnecessary in these days of
refrigerating-plant. That is the worst part of it
all. Poor old bullock ! I am as thirsty for a
draught of air from a Queensland tableland as he
is.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


AUTUMN LEAVES
THE SYSTEM UNGUARDED AGAINST
WINTER RAVAGES
COUGHS—COLDS—INFLUENZA.
\\
v'O .
► •*’
N our Australian Climate the Winter Season' is always accom-
panied by an epidemic of Colds, Chills, Influenza, Rheuma-
tism, &c., and the reason for this is not far to seek. The
frequent changes of our climate are the cause which soon
finds the weak places in the human system. Hence the
hundred and one ailments so common at this period of the
year. To be in a state to throw off Colds, Chills, &c., with
their more serious consequences when contracted, the body
should be kept in the pink of condition. Now this can rarely
be attained without some assistance being given to the
organs. What is required is some natural stimulant which
will not overtax the organs, so that when its use is discon-
tinued they will not be weaker than they were before, bub
which will assist them to do the additional work required of
them. BILE BEANS for BILIOUSNESS fulfil all these requirements. Their compo-
sition is purely vegetable, their action on the Liver, Stomach and Kidneys is mild, and
have the effect of so bracing the system that Winter s cold and wet lose their terror and
their power to injure. They bring about perfect circulation, thus curing the unpleasant
sensation of cold feet and hands ; they stimulate the appetite and increase the energy.
By acting on the Liver they prevent the evil of Winter Constipation and are a certain
cure for that distressing ailment —Piles. Indeed throughout the Winter season to most
people, BILE BEANS for BILIOUSNESS will be found an invaluable medicine, and
no home should be without a box.
RHEUMATISM.
DURING the winter season, rheumatism is one of the commonest ailments which
afflict hundreds of men and women. It is most frequently caused by exposure to
cold and damp ; but a diseased condition of the liver and digestive organs pre-
disposes to it. When present, it is revealed by pain and stiffness in one or more
joints which become tender and swollen. The sufferer at first refrains from using these
joints, and they become “set” on account of changes which occur in their interior.
Now, BILE BEANS act directly upon the liver and digestive organs, which in turn
purify the blood and reduce the inflammation of the joint surfaces. If a course of the
BEANS be commenced when first the symptoms of rheumatism appear, and ordinary
precautions, such as wearing flannel garments and avoiding all colds or chills, be taken,
this painful disease will, in the majority of cases, be speedily removed from the system.
ƒgh
I
ft
V.
1
k
Z
>
&
V . *\»s
-A-'"
and so does
PEARS
Letters from Harry Morant.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From a mass of old correspondence from bushmen
of various sorts I have disinterred the following
letters from the late Harry Morant. They throw
some interesting sidelights on the character of the
man who rhymed jauntily while under sentence
of death, and faced the firing-party with his eyes
unbandaged.
When I first met “The Breaker” he was at a
hunt riding a livery-stable horse. He rode so
well that the delighted livery-stable keeper was
induced to not only postpone payment for the
hire of the moke, but actually to lend Morant £2.
Morant afterwards rode a steeplechase for these
same people, but the mare ran off the course
giving him a bad fall and temporarilystunninghim.
He was carried in, muttering incoherently some-
thingabout “cattle,’’and allthebystandersthought
that he was in a bad way. They plied him with
questions, but could get no satisfaction from him
till someone asked in a loud, clear voice, “What
will you have, Morant?” He at once replied,
“Brandy and soda,” and his recovery from that
out was marvellously rapid. From what 1 saw of
Morant I find it hard to believe that he killed
anybody for gain. Reckless ne’er-do-weel he was,
but one finds it very difficult to think of him as a
murderer. The following are the letters:—
Enngonia, Bourke, 3/8/’95.
Dear Paterson, —Your letter {re Hunt Club races) came
along all right, as welcome as a thunderstorm, and set a
man yearning for a ride over fences. Would have written
you ere this, but a bit of sandal-wood in my right (or
should I say “write”?) hand has made me economical
about ink. I have a dingo-skin here, the biggest I have
ever seen, and all the local liars say the same of it, which
same I will send down to you at the first opportunity.
Do for a mat--head, pads and all attached. Considering
the “strychnine and stiffening” character of the country
my dingo died a sporting death. The local talent bad
tried with poison since Christmas last to kill him, but I
pulled him down with a couple of cattle-dogs in the
moon'ight about a week ago, after a couple or three miles
gallop, finishing him with that good old weapon, the
stirrup-iron; Killed him within a few hundred .yards of a
tank-sinker’s camp, the pick and shove, men turning out
of their bunks,
“ In a mixed kind of costume, half Pontificalibus.”
“Half what scholars denominate ‘ Pure naturalibus,’”
like Sir Thomas’s household in “ Ingoldsb.v.”
Filled up some leisure by breaking in a four-year-old
colt by the Levite (a Yattendon horse) out of an old mare
by The Drummer. The colt was a man-eater when I first
tackled him, but has turned out a beautiful horse to ride,
and I may get a race out of him, as his old mother has
won both over hurdles and on the flat.
Like Joseph and John Bunyan of old, “ I dreamed a
dream”—to the effect that The Admiral had won the
Cup, whence came the doggerel you possibly read in
“ Sporting Notions ” a week or so since.
Everything in these parts is devilish dry, and there is
small chance of my starting for down the Macquarie with
cattle, though I would like to come down and have a ride
on Queen Mab. Talking of rhymes, thbugh Lawson’s
book sold so readily, I fancy his work is very unequal,
and, strange to say, his latter jingles and sketches are not
all popular with men who have spoken of them to me up
here. His best, or, to be correct, his most popular scribbles
have appeared ov6r his “Joe Swallow” pen-name, and
his identity with that name is, I fancy, mostly unknown.
Had an English letter the other day from an old school-
fellow, who is at present yachting in the Hebrides to put
in the time ere stag-hunting commences in Devon. Stag-
hunting starts this week there. How I hate this ——
brigalow desert sometimes ! Thirty years next Christ-
mas, but feel fifty ! Would like one whole open season,
well-carried, in Leicestershire, and wouldn’t growl at a
broken neck at the finish. A better lot than dreary years
in the bush with periodical drunks !
Owing to literally going in bandages, my fist is even
more illegible than usual. It would be charitable to
speedily finish this scrawl.
Yours in the Brigalow,
Harry H. Morant.
Here is another
Writing Sydney letters to-day, so send a line. Every-
thing up these parts is dry and damnable. Little grass,
less water. Stock poor and men poorer. If it were to
rain shortly I should be able to get down to Sydney, as I
have some cattle to shift from an adjacent place to some
fellow’s paddocks down Warren way.
There are a few scrubbers (cleanskins) yet remaining in
an adjoining ten-mile block. The country is fairly dense
brigalow and gidgee, and it’s not the easiest thing in the
world to get them—in fact, we cannot yard them, so
whenever we want beef here we go out and shoot or
“ r ip”_do you know the latter performance ?—and
butcher some cheap beef on the beast’s hide. Last week
my mate and I went beef-hunting. We were riding colts,
and had but four revolver cartridges ; four bullets failed
to drop the clean-skin heifer we selected, and I got along-
side the heifer to knife her. She turned and charged in
her tracks, and the colt, not being up to the game, his
bowels came out instead of the heifer’s, whilst I was
hurled headlong. The colt went off (died that night,
poor brute !), and I just managed to put a tree between
me and the heifer as she charged. After one or two
narrow squeaks—though no beast can catch a man if
there is a tree handy—l managed to hamstring her, and
the cuddy’s misfortune was avenged. Were Frank
Mahony about at the time, I guess that illustrations of
“Beef-Hunting on the Border” might be worthy of
Christmas publication.
I brought a Lancer’s spear back with me from Sydney,
and find it a first-class weapon for pigs, which are fairly
numerous in the lignum of the Culgoa. With a handy
horse, pigsticking is not bad fun.
I should like to get down for the Hunt Club Steeple and
Point-to-Point, and if rain falls soon I intend to. Trust-
ing that you are all well,
Yours, up country,
Harry H. Morant.
With the advent of Christmas, he seems to have
gone hunting for excitement. This is his Christ-
mas letter:
Dear Paterson.—Another Christmas evaporated, ther-
mometer registering something over 110 in the shade each
day in the past fortnight. My dislocated shoulder is now
as fit as ever. They have an outlawed mare, the Witch,
over at Bundaleer station. The boss there gave a fellow
a note to ride her twelve months ago. She slung him,
and had been spelling since. She was in the yards, the
other day, and I had ago at her. I have not, as a rule,
much respect for sheep-station outlaws, but this one was
pretty bad. Up on her hind legs, then backward bucks,
ahd occasionally one or other stirrup banged on the
ground The worst part of her was that one couldn’t pull
an ounce on her mouth. If you did, the brute would
come back with you. I rode her for about an hour, and
she was just as bad at the finish as when I got on her,
though she would stop when she got the double of a whip
round her. I’m not keen on riding her again, anyhow.
In the course of a month or six weeks, I intend depart-
ing from these regions to try Coolgardie. If I don’t find
it prosperous over there, next Christmas will find one
prodigal turning up in England with a request for prime
veal.
So long. _ „
Harry H. Morant.
This last extract shows the aftermath of one of
his periodical drunks: —•
When I came over here the other day, it was to partici-
pate in a hurrah spree to finish the bachelor days of the
manager here. He is about to take unto himself a wife
of his own ! Most fellows up here generally get shook on,
or content with, some other fellow’s spouse. Anyhow, I
was unsteadily tripping across to my bedroom in the
small, murky hours of the morning, and went headlong
down some 18ft. of a cellar. Left shoulder dislocated was
the result. An amateur surgeon pulled it in again with-
out chloroform next morning, but a ten days complete
rest, mostly camping under the flow of an artesian bore,
and frequent applications of arnica have put me pretty
right once more. Igo back to old Morton the end of this
W Apropos of “ The Man from Snowy River,” there is a
small, sultry border township, Barringun to wit, where,
iust a year ago, a horse owned by an alleged steward ran
a bad second to a shearer’s moke, and was declared the
winner by the biassed judge.
I have done a bit of brumby running in mountain
country, although most of my cleanskin experience has
been in mulga or brigalow, and I have noticed that a good
man on a plucky horse can always beat brumbies when
going down a declivity. A horse with a rider on his back
goes with confidence, whilst brumbies are never all out
then. When going uphill the naked horse gets away.
Weight tells then, I suppose, though, of course, there is
the chance of a smash going down.
I must now saddle-up for my ride home. With best
wishes, —Yours truly, H. H. Morant.
THE BANJO.
The South African Bubble.
“Been There” writes to The Bulletin :
With the benediction of Rudyard Kipling, and the
eulogy of Joseph Chamberlain, Cecil Rhodes, the
modern Colossus of Frauds, has gone to his grave-
Rhodes descended on S’Africa at a time when there was
money to be made there by anyone. The diamond-
mines were turning out wealth in millions ; but the
various companies were cutting their own throats by
competition. Rhodes persuaded them to form a Trust, a
proceeding that was so .obviously for their own benefit
that it is marvellous they had not thought of it for them-
selves. The organising of this Trust is now credited to
Rhodes in the English press as an achievement of a
master mind : really all that Rhodes did was to persuade
a lot of Hebrews to an act which was very much for their
own benefit. Barney Barnato, interviewed afterwards
by an English paper, was asked : “ Was it not owing to
Mr. Rhodes’s wonderful personal magnetism that you
were induced to fall in with his combination?”
Barney shrugged his shoulders and spread out his fat
hands : “ Veil, I give you my word I vouldn’t have gone
in only Mr. Rhodes ' persvaded ’ me. His ‘ persvasion ’
was too strong.” And the Great English Idiot-Public sat
back and marvelled at “the power and determination”
of a man who had done much less work than the Yankee
sharpers who are now organising a Trust in cheap
cigarettes, in face of the competition of the whole world.
* » * *
Wealth Rhodes undoubtedly acquired, both by his
dealings with Johannesburg and from the diamond-fields,
but he went beyond his depth when he started to boom
Rhodesia. He took a tract of rich but unhealthy land,
lying far from any markets, with only problematical
mineral wealth, and floated this on the British public as a
magnificent investment. Rhodes’ name was then a name
to conjure with. The Great British Idiot rolled up with
its millions, and Rhodesia now owes the British public
twelve millions of money ! What prospect is there of the
British public ever seeing one-half of that money back ?
In Australia we are more used to seeing the development
of virgin territory than they are in England. We know
that no matter how much capital is sunk in buildings and
railways, no profit will be made unless there is a solid
productiveness in the country and a solid market for the
products of the country. We know how many thousands
have been swamped by our own Northern Territory,
which still remains as it always has been—a graveyard for
capital. But our Northern Territory is a mere one-horse
show as a sink for capital, compared with Rhodesia. If
Rhodes had been here, he could no doubt have floated
the Territory, and got 12 millions of English capital for it,
just as he did for Rhodesia. Having firmly got the
British public by the pocket, the Rhodes’ Company set to
work to build railways, open mines, and put up towns, all
of which things cost money, and all of which the. British
investor pronounced very gratifying at the annual meet-
ings of the company.
* * * *
The British investor did not reflect that all this was
being done out of his own pocket, and was not being pro-
duced by the country itself. Rhodes, seeing how things
were going—that Rhodesia was practically a dead loss—-
decided to take advantage of the unrest of the Johannes-
burg population, to make a great coup and annex the
gold-mines of the Rand. The scheme failed utterly. The
chosen leader, Jameson, proved quite incompetent. The
organisers could not agree among themselves; they
were all in it for what they could make out of it,
and, while the Defence Committee of Johannesburg was
sending wires to Jameson with one eye on the share-
market, a Secret Committee —of whom Rhodes was one—
was over-riding the Defence Committee and sending
secret wires bn its own account, to Jameson, also with its
eye on the share-market. The result was chaos and ruin.
The bewildered Johannesburgers were not sure whether
they were to fight or not, and everybody was so busy
trafficking in shares that there was no time to organise a
proper system of co-operation with Jameson. Jameson
moved on his own account, or rather under the orders of
the Secret Committee, and against the wishes of the
Defence Committee. His raid was a howling fiasco from
start to finish, and his capture was a pitifully weak end-
ing to a pitifully weak undertaking. A Boer who was
present at the capture of Jameson was asked by an
Englishman afterwards: “What struck you most in
regard to Jameson’s outfit ?” He answered, “ The large
number of empty bottles that were lying around their
camp.” .
This mismanaged, muddled undertaking should have
somewhat discouraged the believers in Rhodes, but not a
bit of it. The British went frantic with satisfaction over
both Rhodes and Jameson, and have continually lauded
them ever since. Having failed in this design, Rhodes
and his fellow-bunglers turned attention to galvanising
into life bv another method the dead bones of their
Rhodesian Venture. In the present war Australian troops
were marched through Rhodesia and were offered farms,
if they would take them, and vet —bad as things were in
Australia—after the squadrons had ridden through the
country, not one man would fall out of the ranks to take
an interest in this El Dorado. The farming land is good
enough, but much too far from a market to be of any
practical value ; the mines have not shown that they are
worth working ; the niggers are troublesome ; and oyer
all there hangs the black cloud of the 12-milhon
debt. And yet Rhodes is a great financial genius!
Even the English press, slow as it is, begins to ask,
“Where has the money- gone to, and when is the Char-
tered Co. going to return a profit to its shareholders?”
The blind belief in Rhodes and his co-promoters, which
belief was sedulously fostered by the press, has up to now
been sufficient to induce the British investor to ask no
questions, but to put his money into the slot of the huge
Rhodes machine in the hope of some day seeing the
machinery work. The great Rhodesian bubble has not
yet burst, as did the South Sea bubble, but all things
point to a burst. There is only one hope for Rhodesia—
• that when the war is over there may be an influx of
young men with capital and no experience, who will buy
"farms from the company and settle the place, and so pull
the company out of its difficulties. Who will pull the
young men out of their difficulties is another matter.
The history of Mark Tapley when proceeding to Eden
should be studied by all who propose to go to Rhodesia.
* * * •
Cecil Rhodes, personally, was a man with one faculty
developed beyond all others—self-confidence. He had as
little feeling as a tyrant, and he had the acute brain of a
cross-examining barrister. In his latter days he drank
heavily, often being unable to even sign a cheque when
on one of his journeys. His will shows him to have been
a man with an imagination, and it is his imagination that
wrecked him in venturing—over-shoes, over-boots—into
the slough of Rhodesia. He saw in fancy a vast area settled
with smiling homesteads, with mines humming with
machinery, and all created out of a wilderness by the
enterprise of Cecil Rhodes. He has not lived to see it j
but those who have survived him will probably live to
see the shareholders of the Chartered Co. howling over
Rhodes’ grave for their lost money. Call no man great
until he has paid his debts. The Chartered Company s
debts are not, strictly speaking, the debts of Cecil
Rhodes, but the British public will fail to make that dis-
crimination, and when the great S’African bubble is
finally pricked the name of Cecil Rhodes will probably
be bracketed with those of Paterson, the founder of the
Darien colony, and de Lesseps, the engineer of the
Panama canal.
As a set-off against the casualne-ss of the
Australian, a ceremonious old Imperial soldier in
Violet Town (Vic.) committed suicide a week or
two back with all the honors of war. Swallowing
enough strychnine to kill a dozen, he went
solemnly to his flagpole, took out his Union Jack
and hoisted it half-mast. His little girl, noticing
his action, asked the reason. ‘ A man is dying,
he explained. Ere he had time to fire a salute,
the poison got to work and he died—-like all
amateurs in suicide who dabble in strychnine m
terrible agony.


Cures all Diseases of the Skin
Eczema, Salt-rheum, Tetter, Rashes, Pimples,
Blackheads, Boils, Ulcers Ail Due to Impure Blood.
Eead how this young girl was cured with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Mrs. May Watson, 9 Eose Road, Surry Hills, Sydney, Mew So Wales semis
month P* lo4o^ll of Wei Witt the foilowtog S
I i h .™rj* S feting terribly from eczema on both her hands and feet.
I had tned many remedies without suecess. Remembering I had received great
help from Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla myself, I began to give it to mv daughter
Soon she showed signs of improvement, and after taking a few bottles the sores
disappeared and she is now free from the slightest symptom of the old complaint
SS>mmfiiS?£-s as T - girl COuld wish to be This makes me steongly
recommend this wonderful medicine to any one needing a good blood-purifier.’’ *
Such cures always follow the use of
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
A >• j? 6 1 y°ur blood is pure, and it must be rich, too. Dr.
Ayer s Sarsaparilla will give you both of these, pure blood, rich blood That
B y° u and what you can quickly have if you will onlv give this old
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Brings Comfort and Good Cheer.
Is your tongue coated? Are jour bowels constipated? AYER’S PILLS.
27
YEARS’ SUCCESS
AS ’Sob
the UNIVERSAL REMEDY for I®L
Coughs, Colds. lgf|
Asthma, Bronchitiis.ljli
Influenza,
Cough, Hoarseness, &c.
HAS MADE
Owbndgcs
v fyngTonfc
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY TO EVERYBODY.
Important Notice: mm
SUBSTITUTION.— Then are so ma/ny imitations
f successful, and therefore popular, remedy that Jp3g
it is of the utmost importance you \ should use the
wornt** OWBRIDGE ’ * when buying Lung Tonic,
cmd TAKE MO SUBSTITUTE.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, M.P.S, Chemist, Hull.
Sold everywhere in bottles, at 1«. lid.
2s. 9d., i.B. 6 d., & lls., by all
Colonial Medicine Vendors.
COPYRIGHT.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
■p OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
. Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
ked Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly rbmove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud op Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beeeham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is l|d, and 2s 9d each.
DINNEFORDS
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
iDINNEFORDSI
MAGNESJAj
MAGNESIA
< J
: wm
%
m
m
m
mm
mm
:
WEAK
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regrain Health?
The Langston Regenerator
WILL. CURE
YOU
fgh
Health, Vigor, Strength
for all who
desire it;
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
• Royal College of Surgeons, England, permanently located in
Melbourne since 1886, originator of the Regenerator treatment, has so
perfected his method that it has revolutionised the art of Healing,
and it can almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable
cases.
Are You a Sufferer
from bad health in
any of its many forms?
Do you feel nervous, fretful, timid and lack the power of will and
action ? Are you subject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping;, and subject to fits of melancholy? Are your kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a*
disordered condition ? Do you feel generally debilitated ? Do you suffer from Rheumatism, Neuralgia or other
aches or pains ?
Do not fail to have che Doctor diagnose your case. If you are unfamiliar with the Regenerator treatment,
prepared in his own laboratory, which is annually curing: thousands, send at ©nee for full information •
it is absolutely-free.
Seels: the Trxxth., it costs IVothing!
No matter what you are suffering from, the Regenerator restores the shattered constitution
like magic.
All communications are considered sacredly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng., cor. Russel! & Collins Sts., Melbourne
■VS.
pfIUTH
OZINE
K
r.n%
- ,v>..
j
*/v.
fy/v'
Crozine Blacking
is a waterproof polish that produces a brilliant and permanent
gloss, which will not rub off. Shoes polished with « Crozine
Blacking ” wear long, because it is an oil dressing, which softens
the leather. “ Crozine Blacking ”is guaranteed to be absolutely
free from all harmful substances, and will be found to be the
most satisfactory dressing made for all walking boots and shoes.
Sold almost everywhere. If not found, write at once to
€• L. HAUTHAWAY £♦ SONS, Boston, Mass., U.SA.
fgh
THE ONLy WAY
TO BE CUBED of Weakening and Debilitating Diseases
is to obtain the PROPER REMEDIES. We have the
REMEDY that will CURE YOU. So CONFIDENT are
we of this, that we will send a trial course FREE OF
CHARGE and abide by the result. Send your symptoms
and prove our statement. Address— Botanic Institute,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-st., Sydney.


FOR.
WATERPROOF GOATS
RUBBER BOOTS
« GOLOSHES
PERDRIAU and COMPANY,
(between Bond & Hunter Street,? 270 COOrgC StfeCt, SydßSy
60
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ C. ELDEI3DG-E & CO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
fghfgh
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Mngtoii Pumps
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send, for Catalogue.
AM MATT’S
PLATE and
CUTLERY
- v* ‘' V ; >,•> £ ‘' V ,
mark.
fgh
J. & J. MAXPIELD, I'ROPRS., SHEFFIELD.
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS,
Empire Chambers, 93 York St..
SYDNEY.
Also at
THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
S. FREEMAN * SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHOS BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WTHTABD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
SOFT VELVET?
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
0
&
fi cr
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
■B) IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 17- & 2/6.
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Write for Prices and Particulars of
i®?aUl 'I
■
■
wm si
-:s
&vP?>r
mm
j
xm
Best Value. Highest Efficiency.
A Large Stock of Pumps suitable for every
kind of service ready for immediate delivery.
60 Clareri<pe-st., Sydney, and
533 Collins-st., Melbourne.
fg
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queert’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KIL.DA.
rjvHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
JL Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Qharges much lower than licensed hotels. Oity,
J-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
H.P. GRCGORy S CO.
Machinery Merchants,
Melbourne & Sydney.
HAVE IN STOCK-
Blake’s Steam Pumps.
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery.
Mundy’s Hoisting Engines-
Empire Co.’s Laundry Machinery-
American “All Steel” Pulleys-
Harris ‘‘Champion” Lubricating Oils.
Mason Reducing Valves-
Ludlow Sluice Valves-
Kortings Injectors and Ejectors-
Ta.nite Emery Wheels.
Pu Isometer Engineering Go.,
BKTG-LAKTD,
Manufacturers of Pumps for all Purposes
The Patent Pulsometer Steam Pump is particularly
suitable for Contractors. Very strong, easi/y
operated, can be slung anywhere.
STOCKS KEPT.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUES.
SOLE AGENTS-
. *■' ■ -
GUTHRIDGE, Ltd
71 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
486 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
MENTHOLINE is the only Sure Cure for Throat and Chest Diseases (Coughs, Quinsy, Injfluenza,
Catarrh, Asthma, Bronchitis, Pneumonia, etc.) For Neuralgia, Headache, Lumbago, and
various pains and ashes of the body, Mentholine stands unrivalled. Large bottles, 2/6 ; quarter-
size bottles, 1/-, posted to any part of Australia. Sample bottles sent free all over the Common-
; of one penny stamp to ECKERSLEY & SONS, 214 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10U3.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in ’the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
ofvarious sizes supplied.
hfg
hfg
JJOTI
ICE
OLE’i!
TO MELBOURNE
GEORGE
VISITORS,
HOTEL, opposite Sfc
Kilda Railway Ration and Cable Trams. Largest Hofei
Aceommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per or from 2 Guineas per Week.
