

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC
! v'V
PIG
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Cadbury's Cocoa
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet:
X£. a. WA s rK.IMS SS, CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR —
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
'
Send for
Prices and
Particulars.
Descriptive
Catalogues
on
Application.
Most
Up-to-Date
Machines.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Yankee Bubber Baby, can be carried in vest
pocket and blown out to life-size (causes roars of
laughter), Alißaba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket, Book of
Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin and Card
Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard Pish (gives
the-definition of your character), The Mafeking Grub (or
nerve-strengthener), and, last of all, that side-splitting
Look and Laugh Glass, Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Pree on receipt of 2s. 6d.
Box 3, G.P.0., Haymarket.
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
XNEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-street, SYDNEY.
nr
Sawing & Woodworking Machinery,
Vertical & Horizontal Band Mills,
Grrand. Priac,” Paris, 1900,
HOLD THE WORLD'S RECORD
(HIGHEST POSSIBLE AWARD.)
SOLE AGENTS
BATTLE &
85 Pitt Street,
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831.
WHISKY.
HOBART. *.
;tSf£r,
Radley's Orient Rotel.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Grade).
J. A. TURNER - -
Proprietor.
PERFECT
‘wATER
[DICE ST I ON
SHOULD
| BE]
ICED
PENFOL
WIN
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2J 3 3J 4 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
-/7 -/9 -/10i 1/- 1/2 1/6 1/11 2/8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 IAO 2/2 2/11 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswau - Lamp
. '
w-ini
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
IHE mm SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Bu.-dings, Edward-st., Brisbane
Milling and Dredging Plants. Engines,
Fowler Traction Engines.
Boilers, &c.
■
The Clyde Engineering C?y.Lt?
Pessioating Plants. Hopper Waggons, &c.
PROOF
4
USE
Head Office:
10 BLICH ST., SYDNEY
Joshua’s Boomerang Brandy.
An eminent local physician, in delivering a lecture on “Alcoholism,” said: “Our Australian
Brandy has attained a reputation WHICH IS INDISPUTABLE. It has long been recommended
by the London Medical Press—‘The British Medical Journal’ and ‘The Lancet,’to wit—and
it has been used in many English hospitals, and in the asylums and other institutions under
the London County Council.”
f#
A NICE PRESENT.
The New Combination PIN-
CUSHION, THIMBLE & REEL
HOLDER, nickel plated, plash
top. Clamps on to any table
by means of a spring. Price,
only 2s. ; post free.
Star Novel ty Company,
229-231 Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
VSSITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
' MRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rPHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
4-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
WHEN buying a KEROSENE GAS BTOVE insist
’ on getting a noiseless
JUPITER
The Very Latest
Invention.
Bums Noiselessly,
Without Smell
or Smoke,
Perfectly Safe.
Obtained First Prize
wherever exhibited.
Stocked by all Leading Hardware Merchants and
Storekeepers.
Sole Agents for Australasia —
Nelson and Robertson,
17 LOFTUS ST., SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vol 23.—H0. 1176 i
[Saturday, August 30, 1902.
■Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


* (*■ Eve Triumphant,” by Pierre de Coulevain (from
George Robertson and Co.)
* “ Rudyard Kipling,” by C. F. Monkshood and George
Gamble. Greening and Co., London.
THE LATEST BOOKS AT .
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Meade L. T., Margaret, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Major, Dorothy Vernon of Haddoi\ Hill, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d
Sparroiv, Principles of Simple Photography, Is 3d, p. 3d.
Needed, Unstable as Water, 3s 6d, p. Od.
Tyfe, Submarine Warfare, 9s, p. Bd.
Stead, Cecil Rhodes’ Last Will, &c., 2s'6d, postage id.
Marsh, Between Dark and Daylight, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Coates, Those Delightful Americans, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p 6d
Neilson, Steam Turbine, 9s, p. Bd.
Baxendale, The Ball, 2s 6d, p. id.
Please Write to us for any Kook or Magazine you leant.
We are always please
71 CA6TLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) & at Melbi
m
Brisbane & London
a
Ok Breaker
t*
Bis Uerses
ana Eeners
With Memoir fay
44 Frank Renar.”
Wholesale from EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE.
Retail from all Booksellers, and Post-Free from
“ The Bulletin ” Office Is. Id.
“Cbe Bulletin” Reciter.
You can’t be Amusing
Without it. ...
Humorous and Exciting Stories in Stirring Verse
suitable for Recitation.
Price 5/- ; Post Free from Bulletin Office, 5/4.
The representative book of Australian humor—
STEELE RUDD’S
“ On Onr Selection.”
Second impression now ready. Price, 6s. Bd.
post free from The Bulletin office.
The Australian Sailorman’s Book—
E. J. BRADY’S
“Cbe mm « Wm lHaters.”
A rattling collection of Sea Chanties. Price,
ss. 3d. post free from The Bulletin office.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
■G- : V/~. '■
(REGISTERED).
5*2
cwss
IN Til
Is. 6d.
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Sing-era
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR
O. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE ; and FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., MELBOURNE, AGENTS
They ease a Tired Throaty and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia*
THE RED PAGE.
Eve Triumphant .
THE year in which the Australian worn
have won equal franchise rights with m
in the Federal and most of the State Leg
latures is a fitting occasion for a review o
the progress (or retrogression) of woman in H
t A°, ry : Triumphant ” (put into English
Aljs Hal lard), and published this year, gi\
another hint to look back upon Woman and 1
works from the Flood to the Franchise, and see
amid a great confusion of facts, some thread o
purpose.
Generalising broadly, and asking leave to ignt
occasional isolated circumstances which may set
to conflict with the theory, it would appear tha
woman's progress and achievement up to t
19th century were on the lines suggested by ma
ideal of woman ; that the 20th century may see t
experiment of Woman developing along womai
idea of herself. Literature is the one faith I
mirror in which the facts as to past ages can
seen reflected through the centuries. Lookin
therein, it is plain enough that at no period o
which mankind has any certain cognisance die
woman fail to win, with the advance of civili.
tion, certain very valuable “ rights ” or, rathe
‘‘privileges.” The Homeric gallerv contai
many pictures of women—Penelope, Helen, A
dromache, the nurse Eurycleia, Nausicaa— wl
in exalted or humble stations, received a hig
respect and a marked deference ; whose opinio
were, often sought and followed ; whose positic
m life was one of dignity and power. T
Hebrew chronicles are no less rich in instances o:
women being allowed to take an active and
spectable part in the affairs of the nation. T
more dim and uncertain Asiatic and German]
records disclose here and there a worna
or women, sharing to a very larg
extent in the control of social and nation
matters; and the position of women in t
Egyptian civilisation was a very high one. In tl
more modern Grecian and Roman times, woman’s
“ progress ” continued, and the occurrence of a
Aspasia shows that there was no objection on th
part of man to permitting an occasional woma
even to share his political power.
But it will be seen on close examination that
all these cases woman developed and progressec
as man’s woman, not as herself. Helen is glorioi
because she is the acme of man’s desire ; Andro
mache, as mother of the hero’s child ; Penelope
because of her faithfulness to her husband’s in
terests ; Nausicaa, because of her maiden care fo
household duties and her frank aspiration fo
marriage with a hero; Aspasia, as the consor
whose mental gifts enable her to aid the ambition
of Pericles. Every privilege or right that woma
vas conceded was given by man as the admirin
reward of her fidelity to him, of her good servic
to him, of her recognition that her mission was t
minister to him. Even when a woman mountec
the throne it was because she had been daughte
or consort to some great man, and promised to
continue his policy better than any male available
Wherever woman sought to depart from wha
man regarded as the proper aim (and that was “to
play for his hand ”), her presumption was as
sternly punished as was the misdoing of th
maids of Ithaca, who were “strung up to th
rafters, like so many sparrows, to dry.”
Christianity, it has been often argued, ohangec
all that, and woman and man, with equal sou
value, came to be considered as with equal earth
rights. But, notwithstanding any such soul
value theory, there is no proof that, either in
teaching or in practice, the new religion o
civilisation made the slightest difference ir
woman’s position. What there is of positive evi
dence seems to suggest that Christianity accentu
atsd the idea that woman was for man and not for
herself. From the Adam-and-Eve incident to the
direct injunction of Paul, “wives be subject to
your husbands ” thefe is much in the Bible to dis-
courage and prohibit the idea of sex-equality.
Nor did the Age of Chivalry, which produced
“the Romance of the Rose,” and represented
humble love of a woman as the chief glory of a
man, make any real difference in woman’s posi-
tion. She was set up for adoration certainly, anc
knights did most curious penances for her favor,
but man’s idol was of the man’s own making, wor-
shipped with much mystic sensuousness merely to
give a sharper, finer zest to his love affairs, and
most unceremoniously dethroned if she departed
one whit from the rules of the game as man wanted
it played.
It would have been not natural if it had been
otherwise. Man evolved from lower types mainly
through the subjection of the female to the
fostering protection of the male. If in any of the
pre-Homo types the females tried to plav a lone
hand, those types certainly disappeared ; the
mother could not survive in the struggle for
existence without some protection from the male.
Those types flourished best wherein the male was
most careful of the female during motherhood,
until Man was evolved with his chivalry, the very
essence of which was the idea of female subjection
and helplessness. The Middle Ages was certainly
too early a date to expect the instinct implanted
by evolution to be nullified by any arguments of
abstract reasoning.
Very recently, indeed, was the claim for sex-
equality made—that claim which marks an
entirely new step in the history of the human
race. Almost as soon as made it has been con-
ceded in Australia, by the granting of the franchise
to women, a concession which will probably mean
nothing practical for years to come, but yet which
has a startling racial significance. Woman
now is given the right to shape her own destinies.
Hitherto she has only had the right to consider
the means by which she could make herself most
pleasant to man. Now, with full political indepen-
dence, she has the right (whether she exercises it
or not) to make herself unpleasant to man, not
only as an individual but as a class. This marks a
complete revolution in human thought on the sex
question, and a sublime confidence that the ten-
dencies implanted by thousands of centuries of
evolution have at last been destroyed. Whether
it is to have any real effect on the world’s social
relations is a point which one may be permitted
to strongly doubt. Probably the Suffrage will not
be used by woman (as it might be used) to assert
in a practical way her independence of man.
Woman will at the polling booth, as elsewhere, be
man s woman still, and remain faithful to the
instincts which have been graved into her by so
many centuries of time. If not—if woman votes
and legislates as woman's woman—there will be
-some interesting developments for the next few
generations to watch. The overlordship of man
is not an essential condition of community exist-
ence (though it seems to be an essential condition
of present civilised existence); among the bees
and the ants, for instance, the male is but a very
poor creature : Humanity may start to work on
bee-lines.
Meanwhile, in “Eve Triumphant,” a story
which describes the experiences of a young
American matron and an American maid in
European society, woman may learn how very
lit le she has to gain (from her own present stand-
point) by ceasing to be man’s woman and being
tier own woman. In U.S.A. the privileges and
rig,its of woman (man-conceded, man-protected)
are greater than anywhere else in the world.
Apparently she rules the land (though she has not
the franchise), and man is but her slave. Really,
of course, the Yankee is only practising in a
rn°i\ ern orni le chivalry of Arthur’s Round
I able, and bows so deeply and humbly to his idol
because it adds to his sensuous happiness to do so.
lie glories and exults in his show of humility, and
is an abject in the house of the Lord he creates
from choice. The practical situation, however, is
that the American woman gets without question
ail that her woman’s mind suggests to her that she
wants. For her the Yankee trusts and combines
aud wrecks and floats. For her the luxuries of
two hemispheres are piled up. But all the
time she is Man’s woman, the real subject of her
apparent worshipper. Yet, as present woman
ideas go, the American woman enjoys the acme of
well-being. There will need to be a wonderful
change, not in man’s but in woman’s mind, before
anything that the franchise can give, that the full
recognition of sex-equality can give, will make her
as happy as she is, with her triumphant feminity,
in that land where man does the work that woman
may enjoy the pleasure.
F.R.
Rudyard Kipling.
THERE could not be imagined a more plain
advertisement of the decline of literary
criticism in England than the appearance
of a third edition of “Rudyard Kipling
an appreciation, ” by G. F. Monkshood and George
Gamble, in “the English Writers of To-day”
series. Not so very long ago it was the fashion to
criticise a writer as a writer. In this book, which
is typical of current British criticism of Kipling,
he is glorified as a great writer because of his
achievements as a politician and as a preacher
Kiplmg is “ one of the greatest friends of the
British. Empire that have ( sic) stepped to the
ln t “ s our da y ” (again sic, very sic).
Who can rouse us with greater force into sharp,
clear, useful discussion of the vital things of
our Empire?” And much to the same effect,
arguing seemingly, that the great literary
y alu e ofKiphng is that he urges England
to double the Death Duties and double the
Royal INavy. There is one bit of genuine humor
m the book—a preface embodying a letter by Mr.
Kiplmg, sent in response to an advance copy and
a request for “a prefaeial note” (again sic).
Rudyard Kiplmg wrote :
I have read your type-written book with a good deal of
interest, and I confess that I greatly admire your enthu-
siasm. But does it not seem to you that a work of this
kind would be best published after the subject were
dead i
There are so many ways in which a living man can fall
from grace that, were I you, I should be afraid to put so
much enthusiasm into the abidingness of print until 1
was very sure of my man.
Which is a very neat snub indeed to these
enthusiastic and ungrammatical adorers, not so
m V ch of the literary value as of the Imperial
value of Mr. Kipling.
The time has not yet come for an accurate
appraisement of Kipling’s work. The one thing
certain is that the last few years have been years
of steady deterioration. With the one flash (not
sovery great a flash) of merit in the “Recessional,”
Kipling’s writing, since he became politician and
preacher, is absolutely worthless as literature.
The earlier work—“ Plain Tales from the Hills,”
“Departmental Ditties,” “Barrack-roomßallads,”
“The Jungle Book,” and various collections of
short stories—is on another plane altogether. But
perhaps the final judgment will be that Kipling
was a supremely able journalist, an intensely vital
observer and recorder of the surfaces of things—
and no more.
— . ♦
Carlyle’s view of a Coronation ceremony:
“ Often, when I read of pompous ceremonials, drawing-
room levees, and Coronations, on a sudden the clothes fly
off the whole party in my fancy, and they stand there
straddling m a half-ludicrous, half-horrid condition.”
&
Andrew Lang in Longman’s Magazine :
“It is women who write ‘daring’ books, and it is
women who read them. When once the fair do take off
their bonnets, they are not content with that, but
‘throw them over the windmills,’ as the French say
Men do not like this sort of thing. It not only disgusts
but bores them. It is a particular kind of woman, usually
earnest and stupid, who enjoys these exercises. Our sex
if this continues, must provide itself with fans to blush
behind. We must leave the ladies before the coffee and
cigarettes begin to circulate.”
The wrangle is finally
settled at last! Somebody, entering quietly into
the raging cipher-theory controversy in London,
says the plays were written neither by the crimi-
nal William, nor by the judicial Erancis, but by
one Bernard Shaw, and calmly points to the
fourth last letter in the titles of eleven of the
plays in support and proof of his statement.
MAC B ETH.
OTII £ LLO.
COMEDY OF ER R ORS
MERCHANT OF YE N ICE
CORIOL A NUS.
MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S D R E4M.
MERRY WIVES OF WIN D SOR.
MEASURE FOR MEA S URE.
MUCH ADO ABOUT NOT H ING.
ANTONY AND CLEOP A TRA.
ALL’S WELL THAT ENDS W ELL.
This is so conclusive as to justify everyone in
cutting the dishonored fraud’s name from the
title-page of his Shak Shaw.
In an English mag., The Reformer (edited by
Hypatia Brad laugh Bonner, daughter of Charles
Brad laugh) appears an interesting article by
Edward Carpenter on “Walt Whitman’s Chil-
dren.” It tells something new about the old
poet, not to be found in his own writings or any
of the books that have been written about him.
Whitman in his later life lived at Camden City,
United States—a lonely old man, with no closer
visthle ties than those of a brother and that
brother’s wife. There is slight clue in Whitman's
two published volumes to personal relations of any
kind—the most direct:
I loved a certain person ardently, and my love was not
returned ;
Yet out of that love I have written my songs.
That ooints more to a life-long bachelorhood than
anything else. Still, in some parts of “ Children of
Adam ” one can hardlv avoid theconclusion that he
is describing an actual bit of his own history as in
the lines: —
Once I passed through a populous city imprinting
my brain for future use with its shows, architecture, cus-
toms, traditions.
Yet now of all that city I remember only a woman I
casually met there, who detained me for love of me.
Day by day and night by night we were together—all
else has long been forgotten by me.
I remember only that woman who passionately clung
to me.
Again we wander, we love, we separate again.
Again she holds me hv the hand, f must not go.
T see her close beside me with silent lips, sad and
tremulous.
Edward Carpenter says that “in a life so full and
rich as Whitman’s there must have been many
such personal experiences of which the world
knows nothing and will know nothing.” But it
was not until a few months before his death, in
a letter to W. ,T. Addington Symons, that Whit-
man made any definite statement, although he
appears to have told his friends that he had
children. This letter bears date August 16, 1890,
and Symons quotes the part relating to the
children, in a letter to Edward Carpenter, written
in 1893, as follows :
My life, young manhood, mid-age, times South, &c.,
have been jolly bodily, and doubtless open to criticism.
Though unmarried, I have had six children—two are
dead—one living Southern grandchild, fine boy, writes
to me occasionally--circumstances (connected with their
fortune and benefit) have separated me from intimate
relations.
Whitman died shortly afterwards. That was his
death-bed confession.
' * The late Alexander Sutherland, in collaboration
with his brother, was the first to write a school
history of Australia. The book is written in a
good, plain style, and, from an Australian stand-
point, will be ranked of more importance than his
“Origin and Growth of the Moral Instinct,”
which is rather a contribution to Scottish philo-
sophy. At the present time there is practically
no instruction given in our schools of the history
of our land. Children usually begin history with
the accession of William the Conqueror and work
downwards, the majority of them knowing more
about the Norman Conquest than about Eureka.
Clearly it would be of more value, both from the
standpoint of national ideals and of mere useful
knowledge, to begin to teach them the history of
the land of their birth. Then knowledge of Aus-
tralian history would enter from the first into the
texture of the national mind, and in time influence
the national literature. The average young Aus-
tralian learns the history first of England, then of
Rome and Greece, perhaps (in an R.C. school)
that of Ireland, and last, if at all, that of Aus-
tralia. It should be Australia first, and the rest
as time permits.
The New Idea is the latest Australian publi-
cation, advertised as “ a home journal for women,”
and run by Mr. T. Shaw Fitchett, the son of an
energetic and reverend father. It’s not a new
idea at all, only the old one of reprinting snip
matter. There’s hardly an original par. in the
whole publication ; but it gives a big budget for
threepence, and may compete successfully with the
imported Home Notes, Home Chat, and the like.
“In the Bush Shade,” by Henry Lambert
Thompson (Geo. Robertson and Co., publishers),
prints in neat, pretty binding some neat, pretty
verses, no one of which can claim any reason for
surviving the fugitive publicity of a newspaper.
“The poet sings, as the nightingale, because he
must sing,” writes a critic ; and certainly that is
when the poet should sing, and only then—when
he wishes to express a thought too lofty or too
dainty for prose. Those who depart from that
rule must always face the question, “ But why ? ”
If, then, they can plead some exceptional grace of
versification, combined with some flavor of
original thought, a license is allowed to sing—as
minor poets. But Mr. Thompson can hardly
claim even that sort of a license. He rhymes anil
scans irreproachably, but never writes anything
approaching to “poetry,” never ventures on a
daring image. This, as a fair specimen, about
Tasmania:
Isle most blessed of all the Southern world,
For God hath blessed thee with benignant hand,
And sent his favor wide throughout the land ;
In thy fair orchards apples close are curled
In heaps luxurious on the branches swirled.
In spreading wealth and rosy by the wand
Of fairy sun, all berries too expand,
And in thy fields the ripened grain is furled.
Pretty? Yes, pretty-pretty.
“Travels in West Australia,” by May Vivienne
(from George Robertson and Co., Sydney), is the
fruit of an evidently most industrious and a dis-
tinctly intelligent observation of life in the great
Western colony. The lady has collected her
material with great diligence, has enriched it
with sortie very interesting photographs, and the
publishers have done their part well, with clear
print, good paper, and admirable etching. The
net result is a “ chatty ” impression of the gold-
fields and coastal settlements of W.A., the abo-
rigines, the flora and fauna, and so on. There is
no attempt at criticism—no attempt to dive
beneath the fair surface show to see what is grim
beneath. The writer looks only on the rosy side
of things; and her work, therefore, probably gives
an inaccurately optimistic impression of the State
of W.A. But, allowing for that, the information
it gives with pictures and letterpress is undoubtedly
Valuable. There is now and again a useful hint—
for instance, that the boronia flower should be
utilised for perfume-making. What is said of
that might also be said of the pittosporum of the
East Coast and many of the wattles. But Aus-
tralia learns very slowly how to utilise her
resources.
J*
“ Henslowe’s Annual ” for 1902 shows a distinct
improvement on previous numbers, though there
is still within the-covers much that is very crude,
both in pictures and reading matter. As the
“ Annual ” has reached its third year, it seems to
have good promise of permanence.
&
An English publishing house, after printing a
harmless domestic book (title of which might be
twisted into an obscenity), was perplexed by a
curiously persistent demand from one source. It
was finally discovered that this buyer advertised
the book extensively in sporting and other jour-
nals. His method was simplicity itself. The title
given, he would add: “Posted secure for 25.,
safely sealed.”
Jt
Some Correspondents—
A.l’eto : Re “A. M.’s ” article on Democracy, Whitman
" as done more than amplify Aristophanes’ ideas. Aristo-
phanes, Heine, Ibsen hack off the leaves, twigs and
branches ; Whitman digs below the ground, and hews up
the roots of the tree of decadent democracy. In effect,
Whitman says: “Of what use are your social reforms
unless the protoplasm which goes to build up the heart
and brain of each individual democrat be healthy and
sound t ” Browning, in “ Aristophanes’ Apology,” aptly
sums up the reason why Aristophanes failed, and why
Athens, who accepted his teaching in place of that of the
Sophists, fell. Browning’s criticism of the comedian
might be a warning to those modern journals which fol-
low Aristophanes’ methods, satirise ideals, and scoff at
religion, while they themselves have no higher ideals or
better religion to put before Democracy. Religion (in
the true sense—l do not mean anthropomorphic Deities,
Popes, Bishops, and such curiously dressed dolls of .
humanity) is an essential note of all great literature ;
and yet it is the lacking note in Australian literature.
i, ?Y;?‘ Writing on “The Critics of Democracy,”
A.M. (Red Page, 19/7/’O2), says of the comedies of
Aristophanes: “It is not encouraging to democrats of
to-day to read those old satires of the faults and follies of
centuries ago, in view of the fact that the satires failed.
Now, the same conditions recurring, bring up new'
satirists. Will they, too, speak and write in vain?”’
Assuredly they will, unless somebody does something
more than satirise, prophesy, and exhort. The decay
of democracies, old and new, must have a cause, to
discover and remove which must be the aim of every
wise democrat. “A.M.” makes a good guess at it:
“ A democracy seems to flourish only so long as simplicity
of manners and customs prevails. When it becomes
wealthy it begins to degenerate.” And yet one of Kleon’a
baits for degenerate Demos is this: “I feed you and
clothe you, and contrive, by fair means or foul, that you
have your 3-obol piece a day.” Which suggests that the
poverty, and not the wealth, of Demos is the cause of his
corruption. The fact is, of course, that in all democra-
cies up to date increase of wealth has been accompanied
by greater and greater inequality in its distribution,
bringing the proletariat into a condition in which they
have nothing to sell but their votes—price a 3-obol piece
a day, with employment as a detail of the bargain. Thence
Demos’ loss of self-respect. Thence his sensitiveness to
flattery, his carelessness of public morality, and his ignor-
ance, which is the security of the Kleons, Seddons and
John Sees. Demos is not‘to be blamed. “All that a
man hath will he give for his life,” said Job’s Adversary,
who had a wide, if not deep, knowledge of human nature.
The problem of Democracy is, therefore, to find for Demos
something he can sell besides his vote—his labor.
ANSWERS.
Arnold D. : It’s not a subject that can be discussed
freely in a pflbiic print, but have you read the book in
the French or in a disinfected English translation? If
the former, what is your view of the unmentionable?


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
S YDNE T.
M c DOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
M‘DOUGtA.IjIj. BROS., S Spring St root;, Sydney.
AGENTS:
jj.Z. L. & M.A. Co., Ltd., Australia and New Zealand : Strachan, Cheedle & Co., Adelaide; J. B. Curran, Hobart.
Kangaroo,
Wallaby,
Rabbit,
Opossum.
SEND ALL SKINS TO
WINCHCONIBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY,
The Leading Salesmen. Full Values and Quick Returns,
SPECIAL NOTICE.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & COMPANY Ltd.
SYD3XTEY.
Compare our Reduced Produce Charges other Brokers.
Our. Reduced Charges.
Old Charges.
4 per cent.
4 per cent.
2J per cent.
4 per cent.
5 per cent.
5 per cent.
5 per cent. (Minimum 5s per ton)
HIDES
SHEEPSKINS
TALLOW (£lOO and over)
TALLOW (under £100)
HAIR, HORNS, BONES, &C.
FURRED SKINS
BARK
3 per cent.
3 per cent.
2 per cent.
3 per cent.
4 per cent.
3J per cent.
4 per cent. (Minimum 49 per ton)
While thus selling Produce at these unprecedently Low Rates, we desire to emphasise the fact that we are
fully maintaining' the high efficiency of our Produce Department, and Consignors can therefore, when entrust-
ing their produce to us, rely on securing results that will favorably compare with those obtained by sending
elsewhere. Special Terms offered to Agents influencing business. Correspondence invited. All Proceeds
absolutely safeguarded by our Trust Account system. GEORGE MAIDEN, Manager.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices; 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY, Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge s 3 Per Cent, to the Growers,
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Buyers,
’ I 111111111 111 MU ■ I HI —» ■
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Clotli, 300 pages
price, 4s. 6d.; postage, 6d.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.} Sydney and Brisbane.
WONDERFUL VALUE IN CIGARS.
SINGLE BOX AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
GUARANTEE: EVERY CIGAR SOUND AND IN PERFECT CONDITION.
Goods Exchanged or Money Returned*
CIGARS
ROMA QUEENS .. „
LA PAROLA, Reliable Smoke .. ••
HIGH LIFE MENDOZAS
NIMROD REIN A VICTORIA ..
LA SPECIAL, from Choicest Leaf
SANTIAGO LA FLOR, Fine Quality
“LEOLA,” Borneo, Mild Smoking ..
“ EL RIVAL,” Borneo, Full Flavor
HEAVY WEIGHTS (P. De Mendoza) ..
“PERLA”BOUQUET
“EL MUNDO” (Rothschilds) ..
“MENDOZA” (Rothschilds)
“ PERLA ” (Rothschilds) .. ••
“MINERVA” No. 1 MANILA ..
“ WINDSOR LADY ” (Manila Regalia) .. _
“PERLA MINERVA,” MANILA, Fine Quality
FLOR DE NAVES (Havana Reina)
HENRY CLAY (Havana CouchaS, Extra)
DELIVERED FREE OF DUTY AND CHARGES*
Post Free
SEND FOR
OUR
LIST
OF
C. 8.8.
BRIAR
PIPES
MICK SIMMONS,
TOBACCO MERCHANT and IMPORTER,
Haymarket, SYDNEY
Tobacconists and Storekeepers may obtain Wholesale List on application^
Liberal Allowances
when required.
Accurate
Valuations.
WOOL
Selling Brokers.
PROMPT
RETURNS A
SPECIALITY.
HARRISON, JONES & DEVLIN, Ltd.
Special Attention to
details.
Weights carefully
taken.
Principals
having over 30 Years’
Experience Conduct
All Wool Sales
Offices and Stores i
Circular Quay,
Sydney.
OWEN’S
DANCING POWDER
For Ballroom Floors.
No Preparation Required.
Sprinkle it on the Floor.
The Dancers do the Rest.
2s. 6d. Packet covers
600 feet.
Sample Packet sent
receipt of 3 stamps.
H. OWEN, 436 Collins-St, Melbourne.
CONSTIPATION VANQUISHED.
Professor LAWSON TAIT, M.D.,
THE GREAT SURGEON, in writing, said :
“ Lawson Tait highly recommends
KUTNOW’S POWDER."
We call attention to the high praise bestowed
upon KUTNOW’S POWDER by the highest
Medical authorities, and the indisputable testi-
mony of the general public.
Professor B. L. WYMAN, M.D.,
Dean of the Birmingham Medical College, in
writing, February 13th, 1901, says:—
“ Gentlemen.—l have to say that I have tried
KUTNOW’S POWDER, and am pleased to say
the results have been very satisfactory. I have
been a great sufferer from Chronic Lithemia
(uric-acid in the blood) for the past two years,
and have been greatly improved since I began the
use of KUTNOW’S POWDER. I mention this
simply that you may know what I think of the
value of your Powder in all URIC-ACID
DISEASES. As an eliminant of URIC-ACID
poison, have found it distinctly efficient. I have
firescribed it freely, and shall continue to do so.”
b is especially beneficial in all cases of GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, DIABETES, and BRIGHT’S
DISEASE.
RECENT VALUABLE
TESTIMONY.
SIB JOHN B. MONCKTON,
Town Clerk of London, writes:
“ Guildhall, London, E.C.,
4th Nov., 1901.
“ Gentlemon,-F-I have much satisfaction in
stating that for the last two years I have regu-
larly used KUTNOW’S POWDER, with the
result that troublesome and frequent attacks
ofluMbago, wftli other gouty symptoms that
had troubled me for years, seem to have
entirely disappeared. “ Yours truly,
“ JOHN B. MONCKTON.”
»
Bev. H. X. DUDLEY writes
“I consider KUTNOW’S POWDER invalu-
able, and have again and again found it of the
utmost service, and would not be without it
willingly. IT HAS QUITE RECEN PLY
CLEARED OFF SOME RHEUMATISM
WHICH HAD TROUBLED ME. lam con-
tinually recommending it to, friends. You may
make what use you like of this or my other letter.
“(Rev.) H. T. DUDLEY (Vicar),
“ Whitfield Vicarage, Glossop, Derby.”
Kutnows Powder
PRESCRIBED FOR AND USED BY THE ROYAL FAMILY.
THE GREATEST REMEDY IN THE WORLD
....F0R....
Constipation, Stomach, Liver and Kidney Troubles, Gout,
Rheumatism, and Uric-Acid Diseases.
VARIABLE APPETITE, coated tongue, and unpleasant taste in the morning, are the result
of constipation. i . . , ,
HEADACHE, either nervous or bilious, mental depression, and insomnia are the result of a
sluggish liver. ,
SKIN ERUPTIONS, pimples, boils, and eczema are the result of impure blood and unhealthy
deposits in the system.
RHEUMATISM, gout, and sciatica are the result of excessive uric-acid in the blood.
INDIGESTION and chronic dyspepsia are the result of insufficient and sluggish gastric juice
supply.
The Proper Remedy Indicated by the highest Medical Authorities
for these disorders is KUTNOW'S POWDER, which is a perfect organic
cleanserand the safety-valve of health. KUTNOW’S POWDER has tho
same curative and medicinal healing properties as the waters of the
Royal and Imperial European Spas, without their drastic and lower-
ing effects. KUTNOW’S POWDER po&lesses the power of eliminating
from the Blood the poison created by it, an excess of bile and acids,
The use of KUTNOW’S POWDER thereby gives tone to the system; and
in assisting to build up healthy tissue, becomes the first aid to a
vigorous constitution.
Constipation neglected or unskilfully treated becomes habitual or chronic,
and is responsible for most of the ills which flesh is heir to. Most people,
when sick, whether from INDIGESTION, DYSPEPSIA, BILIOUSNESS,
SICK HEADACHE, FLATULENCE, NAUSEA, SOUR ERUCTATIONS,
VOMITING, or HEARTBURN, fly to the aid of drastic purgatives, pills,
salts, or noxious oils, the use of which means a passing relief, but which (as
most medical men declare) afterwards increase the constipation, and thereby
accentuate the ailment. Of all the innumerable remedies (offered to the public)
for the cure of constipation there is only one which absolutely meets the
natural necessities of this frequently recurring evil—viz., KUTNOW’S
POWDER, the safety-valve of Health.
Beware of Fraudulent Imitations.
KUTNOW’S POWDER may be obtained in capsuled bottles, of all Chemists and Medi-
cine Vendors. See that the Registered Trade Mark, “ Hirschensprung ” (or Deer Leap), and
the autograph facsimile signature, “S. KUTNOW and Co. (LD.),”areon the label and carton.
ONLY THESE ENSURE GENUINENESS. INSIST ON “KUTNOW’S,” AND
FIRMLY REFUSE ANY SUBSTITUTES; THEY ARE WORTHLESS AND OFTEN
INJURIOUS.
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 FARRINGDON ROAD, LONDON, E.C.
Proprietor la U.S.A.: KUTNOW BROS., LTD., 853 BROADWAY, NEW YORK CITY, U.S.A.
Sir MORELL MACKENZIE,
M.D-,
THE WORLD-RENOWNED SPECIALIST,
in writing, said :
“ I have tried KUTNOW’S POWDER,
and find that it answers particularly
well.”
This testimony requires no comment, but must
appeal to all who value the advice of this eminent
physician.
* —
Additional Medical Evidence.
DR. BRACKET, Head Physician
at the Baths at Aix-les-Bains,
in writing, said:
“ For patients suffering from disorders of the
Stomach, Liver, and Bowels I have prescribed
‘ KUTNOW’S Improved Effervescent Carlsbad
POWDER,’ and by its aid obtained the best
results. Have prescribed the powder for about a
year in my hospital practice here, as well as fre-
quently for my private patients, and find it also
efficient in Gout and Rheumatism. I consider
KUTNOW’S POWDER indispensable to persons
travelling.”
Dr. HUGH LANE, M.R.C.S.,
L.R.C.P., wrote :
“ The more I try KUTNOW’S POWDERS in
my practice, the more I like it. The flavour is
unobjectionable, and thus it is readily taken by
ladies and children.”
D. McNEIL, M.D. L F.P.S.,
writes:
. * “Holm, Kirkwall, Nov. 2nd, 1901.
“Dear Sirs, —I always use and prescribe
KTJTNOW’S POWDER, and could not get on
without it.—Yours truly,
“D. McNEILL, M.D.”
+
A NURSE writes :
“Netley House, 15 Henrietta Street,
“ Cavendish Square, W.
“NURSE BELL begs to thank Messrs. Kut-
now & Co. for the bottle of KUTNOW’S POW-
DER forwarded to her. After having given it a
fair trial, she is much pleased with it, and will
most certainly recommend it to her patients
suffering from ‘ uric-acid ’ disease.”
BEWARE OF FRAUP-
WARNING.—When purchasing KUTNOW’S POWDER
we must ask you to% be cautious. Be particular In
seeing that you get \ “rKUTNOW’S.” Fraudulent imi-
tations are simply ditastic purgatives, and not only
useless, but absolutely injurious.


Discovered by Christopher Mudd, F.L.S., F.R.G.S., M.8.P1i.5., London, Botanist to the King of
England during His Majesty’s Indian Tour.
Eczema OLEAC
Cures this terrible itching complaint.
Not a grease. Does not stain the linen.
Full directions each jar. Jars, 4/6; post, 4/10
Used in the Melbourne Homoeopathic
Hospital with success.
ANTHOS
FOR
THE
HAIR
Not a Grease, purely Botanical.
Written testimony from well-known medical men.
One bottle in daily use lasts about 4 months.
“Anthos" prevents Hair falling out, Dandruff,
and Irritation. Bottles, 2/6 ; posted, 3/3.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND
Melbourne : Foy & Gibson and all Chemists. Hew Zealand: C. L. Best, Ponsonby, Auckland.
Sydney: Pattinson & Co. (all branches). Adelaide: Harris & Kemp, Arcade.
Park & Son, 156 Pitt Street.i Brisbane: Taylor & Colledge Ltd.
Depot: M. H. Horwitz, 34 Pitt Street Perth: Foy & Gibson.
Colonial Representative : Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY, Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane
-o^o*
CHE Largest Manufacturers
and Importers of the Best
Continental and American
Photographic Requisites in
the Commonwealth.
WWWWvWWWWyrWWWV
All Leading Lines in Photographic,
Phonographic and Optical In-
struments, and latest Novelties.
A Staff of Skilled Mechanics who can Refit and Repair
anything.
Sole Agents in Australasia for Ross, Ltd., London and Paris.
Baker and Rouse Proprietary, Ltd.,
375 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL, you enjoy your lunch
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
Single Room, with Pull Board, Bs. per
day, or dB2 2s. per week.
TERMS, The convenient
system of paying for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms ; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
Well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.3 o—from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE
FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
SALT.’
The effect of Eno r s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
® CAUTION.— See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., ‘FRUIT,SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, ENG
by j. C. ENO’S Patent.
2h.p. to lOOh.p.
KING. MARINE OIL ENGINES
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
m. »*-
Noiseless Uuderwater . , ,
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J. F.
Telephone 2671.
WITH THE KING ENGINE— ONE LEVER CONTROLS 7 " THE WHOLE.
McDermott & comfakty,
37 MARKET,* STREET, SYDKTEY.
Long and Weary Suffering.
Rheumatic Fever and a Torpid Liver.
An Eight Years Permanent Cure.
The Case of Mrs. H. R. LAWLER.
(BY A SYDNEY REPORTER).
Every scientific discovery means the
introduction of some commodity for the
purpose of rendering a service to the
multitude of its users, and as the public’s
ready appreciation of everything possessing
indisputable merit is observable on all sides,
as will be noticed by the remarks of M rs.
Hester Rose Lawler, of No. 4 Broadstairs-
street, Balmain, it is considered necessary
to place the following narrative before the
general reader.
Mrs. Lawler’s introductory statement
was:—“Several years before I married I
was taken ill with rheumatic fever. All my
joints swelled up and were most painful, my
knees being particularly bad. My head was
also terribly swollen, besides being so
afflicted with severe pains that I scarcely
knew what I was doing half my time. The
doctor gave me some medicine which caused
a burning sensation in my chest, and I felt
so distressed after taking each dose that I
asked him to change it, but he said it was
the best medicine he could give me.”
Reporter : “Was there no ease whatever
derivable from the treatment he gave you ?”
Mrs. Lawler: “ Not the slightest.
Previous to my attack I was an unusually
strong woman, capable of working hard all
day without showing any signs of fatigue,
but for four years afterwards I was subject
to such sudden seizures of intense pains and
faintness that in the middle of any light
task I was often compelled to leave the
work undone and lie down for the rest of
the day. With my rheumatism came a
complete collapse of the system, everything
seeming to go wrong at once. The terrific
agonies running through my body kept me
awake at nights, so that when I ought to
have been getting up I felt so dead beat aud
depressed that I had no ability or desire to
do anything. Thus the days and months
dragged wearily on, and my condition was
getting worse all the time. My appetite
was in a very bad way too, fori seldom wanted
any food, and if I took a little it did not do
me any good because it would not digest.”
Reporter : “ How could you tell that ? ”
Mrs. Lawler: “ Because I felt almost
stifled through having a heavy pain in the
chest for one thing, and my stomach felt as
unsettled as if I had drunk a cupful of
yeast. Sometimes the food turned positively
sour and came up again, but before it was
vomited I always suffered acutely from
internal pains. Biliousness gave my mouth
such a nasty taßte that retching used to
come on, and what an awful time I had with
sick headaches ! They made my eyes feel
swollen, and my sight was bad. The
swollen state of my ankles and feet often
prevented me from putting my shoes on,
fet, in a way, this did not matter much, as
was generally too weak to walk about.
There was also something radically wrong
with my shoulders, as I could feel a sharp
pain between them which gave me more
annoyance than enough, and the aches in my
loins were even worse. Suffering so long
and seeing myself going down hill year after
year at last made me utterably miserable,
and fears about the future were constantly
thrusting themselves upon my mind.”
Reporter: “ Are you naturally of a
nervous temperament ? ”
Mrs. Lawler : “ Not by any means ; but
when I was ill my nervous system was
greatly weakened, and if anything startled
mo I could feel them jumping as though
they had been cut loose. People say that
life is sweet under any circumstances, but I
used to think I would rather die than live
thisp unbearably painful existence any
longer. Up to this time I could never
understand why people should look at the
black side of everything, and allow them-
selves to think of ail sorts of things that are
going to happen; but that is exactly the
frame of mind I was in, so it must be ill-
health which accounts for such unhappiness.
Anyway, I was too weak and weary to
trouble much about anything, but, thank
God ! all that has passed, and for eight years
I have been free from all the tormenting
symptoms which were bearing me down to
the grave.”
Reporter : “ You had a change in your
treatment, I presume ? ”
Mrs. Lawler: “ You may depend I had,
or else I would not be able to speak to you
as I have done, and it was a friend who
gave the advice which resulted in the
obliteration of my maladies. He was a
friend of my husband’s, and he said he could
recommend something that would do me
good. *lt is Clements Tonic,’ he said, ‘ and
you cannot go wrong if you take it, because
it cured me when I was in the same state
as you are in now.’ Dubious as 1 was
through losing confidence in previous medi-
cines, I purchased some Clements Tonic,
and before going any further I would like
to state that it was the only medicine which
did me any good at all. The revivifying
effects of Clements Tonic were nothing short
of miraculous, as two or three bottles set
new vigour coursing through my weakened
system, and I passed from a long period of
melancholy hopelessness to a life of comfort
and cheerfulness. It took a little time, of
course, but the fact remains that Clements
Tonic gradually braced me up and started
to ease my pains very quickly. My people
got a surprise when I started to eat, because
it was so long since I had experienced the
sensation of being hungry, and my appetite
became more vigorous as the days went by.
I am positive that nothing in the world
can equal Clements Tonic for producing
refreshing and peaceful sleep, as it mado
me sleep shortly after retiring to bed,
dreams never troubling me, and when I
awoke there was no bitter taste to sicken
me, and the aching sensations had l®*t my
head and limbs.*
Reporter. “ Your rheumatic pains—did
Clements Tonic affect them ? ”
Mrs. Lawler : “Affect them ! Why, when
I could take plenty of food without vomit-
ing or retching, or feeling any pains in the
chest or stomach after meals, I was nearly
as well as ever, because by that time the
swellings in my limbs had gone down and
the rheumatic pains were hardly noticeable.
All I wanted was another bottle or two of
Clements Tonic, and you may be assured
that I got them. The end to my sufferings
was assured in the tone and steadiness which
Clements Tonic imparted to my nervous
system, and in due course there was
nothing in my appearance to indicate that
I had gone through the serious illness which
had set at defiance all other medicines
excepting Clements Tonic.”
Reporter: “ may I bring your statements
be r ore the public? ”
Mrs. Lawler: “You are at liberty to
publish them in any way you think best,
as I cannot speak too freely or too gratefully
about Clements Tonic for giving me the
splendid health I now enjoy.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Hbstsr Rosh Lawlbr, of 4 Broads'airs-street,-
Balmain, in the State of New South Wales,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have carefully read the-
annexed document, consisting of five folios, and
consecutively numbered from one to five, and
that it contains and is a true and faithful account of
my illness and cure by Clements Tonic; and also-
contains my full permission to publish in any way
my statements which I give voluntarily,,
without receiving any payment; and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of
the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscilbed and declared at Balmain, this eighteenth
day of February, one thousand nine hundred and
two, before me,
WILLIAM B. SIMPSON, J.P.
THE GREAT EVENT.
HATTE’S CORONATION FAIR
rpHE King rules by right of descent over Millions of Free-born Britishers, and Hatte, by virtue of
x Good Value, exercises a gentle sway over the Ladies of New South Wales. Just now—
The Great Coronation Fair , s on
And the People of both High and Low Degree are Rejoicing.
There are £250,000 of Absolute FAIRING BARGAINS and 400 Highly Efficient
Assistants waiting to give a ROYAL WELCOME to the LOYAL LEIGES
of THE KING OF THE DRAPERY TRADE.
Ladies ! come early to the Fair (it will console you for being absent from Westminster), and
send for a Fair 800k —the Greatest Bargain List ever published.
—■ C. G. HATTE, Newtown.
Just
Published.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Harry Morant.
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
Free.
Y By FRANK RENAR. Y Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney,


Languid
Condition
“ Doctor said there was one thing
which might do me good—Scott’s
Emulsion ”
Life has a poor lookout when you are too
languid to do anything—too languid even to
wish to do anything ! Such a condition is
usually a legacy from anaemia, and if not
corrected leads to disaster. Here is the
story of disaster averted :
“ 29, George Row, Dockhead,
“ London, England, June 10th, 1901.
“ Dear Sirs, —Last autumn I suffered very
badly from the effects of anaemia, which was
followed by lung trouble, and I got into a
very weak and languid condition. It was
positively too much trouble for me to do any-
thing, as I could not exert myself in the
least. I had to take to my bed ; yet I did
not make the slightest progress. In October
my doctor said there was one thing which
'
m
MISS N. BOOTH.
(From a photograph.)
might do me good, and that was Scott’s
Emulsion. I acted upon his advice, gave
the preparation a fair trial, and am heartily
glad to be able to say the results have been
most satisfactory, for Scott’s Emulsion was
successful where everything else had failed.
I can truly say that I never felt so well as
I do now, and I cannot help thinking Scott’s
Emulsion has been the means of saving my
life. I consider your preparation a wonder-
fully strengthening and invigorating remedy,
and would certainly advise all suffering from
chest and lung troubles to give it a trial.
“ Yours truly,
“ (Signed) (Miss) N. Booth."
Miss Booth’s story is a story often told by
those who write to us—that a doctor pre-
scribed Scott’s Emulsion. He could, of
course, had he thought wise, have prescribed
plain cod-liver oil, or any of the many sub-
stitutes and imitations of Scott’s Emulsion.
But he did not; he told Miss Booth that
there was one thing which might do her
good—Scott’s Emulsion.
The doctor, like doctors everywhere who
prescribe Scott’s Emulsion, had the best of
reasons for prescribing this remedy, because
Scott’s Emulsion is the highest and most
valuable form in which cod-liver oil is to be
obtained nowadays. Thousands of doctors
admit this. Then, additionally, all the nasty
taste and smell of cod-liver oil is eliminated
by the Scott & Bowne process, and tbe
virtues of cod-liver oil are reinforced with
hypophosphites of lime and soda, the first of
the bone and tissue builders.
If you are languid, anaemic, listless, and
without strength*to meet the round of daily
cares, take Scott’s Emulsion, and you will
be quickly cured. But you must remember
what the doctor advised Miss Booth: that
there is “ one thing—Scott’s Emulsion ”
that will help in such cases.
To secure the relief Miss Booth had, see
that on the wrapper of the bottle there is a
picture of a man carrying a big codfish; if
they are there you have Scott’s Emulsion.
You can obtain a sample of Scott’s Emulsion
by sending fourpence to Scott & Bowne, Ltd.,
483 Kent-street, Sydney, and mentioning this
paper. All chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
S€NP US
YOUR PHOTOGRAPH.
JF you send a Photograph of yourself (or friend) to
Mr. Mark Blow, Crown Studios, Sydney,
he will reproduce from it a very beautiful and
Artistically Finished
Permanent Enlargement
In Black and White, equalling a rich Steel Plate
Engraving, handsomely mounted on an Indian-tinted
Plate, sunk mount, and as good in every way as Enlarge-
ments now being supplied at from 30/- to 50/- each, and
will carefully pack it and send it Carriage Paid to any
address in Australia, Tasmania, or New Zealand for 10/6.
Your Photo. Returned with Order.
5 EVERY MAN L
SUFFERING from DEBILITY and WEAKNESS should
send for a valuable Pamphlet explaining how all
Nervous and Organic Derangements may be success-
fully treated without stomach medication. The method
is easy and pleasant, and will effect a perfect and per-
manent cure. Sent in a plain sealed envelope free of
charge. E. NORTON, 59 &60 Chancery Lane, London,
m Eng. Over 30 years’ continuous success.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand,
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Ou new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per cent.
of the loan during any year without notice or payment of
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
any
fine.
RICHARD TEEOE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HMauyfV.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 109.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-sfc.,
SYDNEY.
Send for a
Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15a
IMPORTANT NOTICE ta
buyers of Light Vehicle*
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HTLLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
W :MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c.. Repaired by
First-class vVorkmen. Send for Catalogue. Agents wanted.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
m
WHOLESALE
Distributing: Agents
New South Wales —
M. RUTTY & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria—
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia—
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Western Australia—
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland—
Thos. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Phllp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand —
D. Benjamin & Co.
Dunedin, Wellington
and Chrlatohuron.
9
The basis of which is “Montserrat ” Lime-Fruit Juice.
Far Superior to
all otHer Sauces.
•——
AGENTS— Elliott Bros. Ltd., J. Connell & Co., D. Mitchell & Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
MART
“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
“Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
Tlij Lancet
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY! If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
toOrder. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not bo
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for lest
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 por
cent more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, itodtorn, o )£ IKX&X
OlilC SI’KCIATi No. 2
£8 18/6
Delivered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Price 6s,
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
BY
“Steele Rudd.*
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Devil-May-Care!
(AN AUSTRALIAN BALLAD.)
Well-known on the border, strong, handsome aiu
straight,
A reckless, wild liver, but true-hearted mate—
What his name was I’m not in position to swear,
But we called him —it suited him—Devil-may-
care !
Drink ! He drank Bullocky Jim out of breath !
lance! He could dance the red stars to their
death !
tide ! There was nothing in hide or in hair
Too rough to be ridden by Devil-may-care 1
Where did he come from ? Well! where are they
bred
With those laughing blue eyes, that proud lift of
the head ?
Oh ! it’s England, and England, and only up
there
Where they breed ’em light-hearted, like Devil-
may-care !
He was fond of the women ! Ay, that you might
think;
Love ’o women goes mostly with dancing and
drink;
He had eyes for the dark ones and lips for the
fair,
And a careless, gay gallant was Devil-may-care !
But there came to our hero, as mostly to those
Who expect to go scatheless, a wound of love’s
woes,
And an armful of roses and ruddy-gold hair
Set the love-stars a-reeling for Devil-may-care !
It was merely in touch with the fitness of things
And the maxim of “ true love” —which somebody
sings
That the gallant went droving all day in the sun,
And the maid was the heiress of Morrida run.
But love laughs at locksmiths, so, somewhere, they
say,
And true love tastes sweeter for bars in the way ;
And bars must be big ones to part a fond pair
When the one is a rebel like Devil-may-care !
So it chanced that on camp where the tired cattle
lay
Aik. .ue drovers kept double night-watch till the
day,
The boss took the road on his ambling bay mare
And a girl in the dim light m6t Devil-may-care.
When he reined the bay mare at the love-chosen
place
It was pure love that shone on his wild, haggard
face,
And the men that had drunk with this reckless
Lothair
Would 'hardly have known him as Devil-may-
care !
So thov met —so they parted—a kiss for a troth !
And the earth seemed a fairy land built for them
both ;
But some late laggard passing caught sight of the
mare,
And —True Heart no longer met Devil-may-care !
And they took her away—for her good—to the
South
With a rebel’s wild kiss on her rosy child-mouth ;
And ah ! for her good were they right to beware
That she sent no word Northward to Devil-may-
care!
And he curses her mern’ry on Merrida Run
Sinco she cared to make light of the love that she
won—
Yet he broods all alone o’er one lock of her hair
Who had wakened a pure love in Devil-may-care !
When the long trip is done, and the cattle safe
down,
Then he drinks —how he drinks ! down in Albury
Town ;
And “Why should I sorrow, it’s only my share
Who believed in a woman ! ” says Devil-may-
care !
WILL H. OGILVIE.
The Girls Who Wait.
By the gullies and creeks that lie lonely,
’Mid depths of the Silent Divide,
Or where tussock and mulga-bush only
Give cheer to the men as they ride;
By the gates of the yards in the city—•
The butts of a merciless Fate-
Pale faces that pray for God’s pity,
They peer up the roads as they wait.
Blue eyes and gold hair of the blonde !
Brown locks of the gleaming brunette !
True hearts that are faithful and fond
Cling close to the'far off loves yet.
To the men who are cutting out cattle,
Or sleeping ’neath storm-tossed belars,
Or racing where gold-stampers rattle,
Or lying stretched dead ’neath the stars.
9 m * *
Oh ! One waits for your coming home,
Another is waiting for me ;
God help them ! Strange tracks must we roam
As we delve from the Sea to the Sea.
So here’s to the lasses that love us,
In spite of our failings, old mate ;
And wherever Misfortune may shove us,
Good luck to the “ women who wait.”
VIC.
L. M. D.
Two or three fragments of a meteoric stone
which fell with a roar lately in broad day and
ploughed up the wilderness near Mt. Browne (far
north-west N.S.W.) have been picked up. The
biggest of the lumps—bluish-green, not unlike
tellurides —has been sent down to Sydney. This
is the nearest approach to a shower that that
district has had for 11 months.


fir
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel Co.,
SYDNEY.
The, system of paying for Room only and
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
9s. per Day
GORR)Q,N MARE, Secretary.
W. W. A'IKEN, Manager,
83 Years in the Establishment.
With the Pocketless Gown of to-day, the
CHATELAINE BAG is an absolute necessity to Ladies.
We have just received a
very fine shipment, which
we are offering at excep-
tionally moderate prices.
Kindly send for Catalogue.
* '» I I » I >-*
Jewellers & Opticians
sro King ST, Sydney.
Chatelaine Bag's.
Richly Embossed Sterling Silver
Mounts, with Patent Safety Waist
Hook.
Black Seal Leather, 17/6.
Black Morocco Leather, 16/0.
Tan, Green or Brown Crocodile, 21/-
50 other Patterns, from 6/6 to 35/-
Eichly Embossed Sterling Silver-
Mounted Combination
Purse and Card Case.
Real Russian Leather - ■ 10/6
„ Morocco ~ - - 10/6
~ Crocodile ~ - - 15/j
Hundreds of others, from 6/- to 30/-
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
EEANDY
From
a
Medicinal
Point
of
View
Hennessy’s
Brandy
is
Unequalled.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
7/
C
yy
KiISJJI
HOTEL
metropole;
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica
tion to • The Manager.
U i
m
PL
WIGH TMAN’S
BEACONSFIELP HOTEL
Beaconsfield Parade, St. Kilda, Melbourne.
ETIRST-OLASS ACCOMMODATION for Visitors and Per-
* manent Boarders. Situated in the healthiest part of
St. Kilda, facing the sea. Hot and Cold Sea Baths. Fifteen
minutes from Melbourne—tram or train. Reasonable Tariff.
Special terms for families and permanent boarders.
Telephone 65 Windsor Exchange.
A ROYAL LIQUEUR.
PETER F, HEERING, Copenhagen,
CHERRY BRANDY
The King of England; The Royal Danish and Imperial Russian Courts.
SWIFT AND COMPANY, 7 Spring' Street, Sydney, Australasian Agents.
MACHINERY
MERCHANTS,
WHOLESALE IRONMONGERS.
And Importers of
Engines, Boilers, Pumps, Wood-
working Machines, Engineers’
Supplies, Blacksmith and
Coachbuilders’ Requisites, Pipes
and Fittings, Boiler Tubes, Cun
Metal and Brassware for Steam
and Water, Houaehoid and
Builders’ Ironmongery, Agri-
cultural Implements, Horse
Gears, Chaff Cutters, &c.
Zzasax
if*
m
i a
bOBI-WI
HAcHirfcry Store
ijfeAD
« r IC-E.
OR.ISBAN
ii&ai
Smellier?
ebb
m
Bulk
valley
MORTti QueenslaKd BrakcH
JgwNsviat
E
m
North Queensland Warehouse: Also at
Stanley & Sturt Sts., Townsville. New Broad St. House, London, E.C.
AGENTS FOR
ROBEY & CO., Portable
, Steam Engines.
W. B. HAIGH & CO., Saw-
mill Machinery,
i GWYNNE’S Centrifugal Pumps
PEARN’S Manchester Steam
Pumps.
DUPLEX Steam Pumps.
SCOTT’S Steel Mining Ropes.
FRANK VIAL & SON Leather
Belting.
WAUKEGAN Barb Wire.
PLANET JR. Implements.
AER MOTOR Windmills.
KEROSENE OIL ENGINES.
ftfSTil” (KIUTTIS
To cigarette smokers, Messrs. W. D. & H. O. Wills (Australia) Ltd.,
beg to announce that their celebrated “ Capstan” Cigarettes
are now manufactured in a milder flavour than formerly.
qd.
<J Per Packet of 10 (Blue packets). Obtainable at all Tobacconists and Storekeepers.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vol. 23.—N0. 1176.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 30, 1902.
Price 6d.
*' WS’VB GOT '8» i AHBN*t.
TB-ev toygtvJ”
COMIC OPBBA AT SYDJUfY TQ'VN HALL LAST SOSDAY NIGHT.
flpftftoa of Emancipated Females (iii Hill Lyn*}
' ‘ For we must lave nonrebudy,
Ami it Bwy M well to yen ! ”
<sx,
x
Yes, my little dears, they are
lovely ; but that isn't the
, right way to put ’em on ! 6
Our artist, by the way, found it utterly impossible
to imagine a female O’Sullivan, so he had to give it
up after a few futile strokes.
'LondOS*, Thursday. 1
Barton will spend two days in
New York, and, after a visit to
Washington, proceed across Canada
by way of Njagara Falls, Toronto,
Kingston, Quebec, Montreal, Otta-
wa, and Winnipeg.
•> Hop." will watch the future’
political horizon with interest.
There, of course, will rise up
a female George Reid, with a
lady-like Dry I)og and with
ivro toes turned inwards.
Also a ditto Bill Lyne, with feet like a policeman’s,
who will, generally speaking, “ refuse to be drawn, 1 '
and who would like to meet the brute who would
dare attempt such a thing, that’s all 1
He will be a bold Premier
who appoints the lirst woman
to the Upper House ,
Fair but enraged Appointee : “ What, you brace—do
you mean to insinuate that you consider me old ,
enough for that 1”
HISTOgy AtMOST REPEATS ITSEEP.
American Interviewer ; “ But, Mr, Burton,
what’s the matter with Chicago! ”
Bartonj “D that is, I mean, tfew Chisago.! *
Speaking’ of Chicago—.
“ The King has accepted from Captain Chuck, of Sydney, a
\yalking-stick, made from a piece of timber from Captain Cook’s
.ship Endeavor.”
GeO Dibbs {when he reads the above) : “ What rank toadyism
Why, it’s—it’s enough to turn a man back into a roaring,
ranting, red Republican !"
jai. SfM>oN’’3 BIRTHPLACE.at eccleston-hill
ST, JffiMSTa
(Promtbs. "Sketch.")
DICKy-BIRDI SEDDQN BE.VISITS HIS BIRTHPLACE;
■~-From the well-known picture.
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australiant'”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
A.t 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBER*
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... 0 (J
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 1% 6
Quarterly ... ... ... U b b
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia f
Westralia and Jftaoriland.
Tn consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of Ihd. postage, the subscription
to Tub Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage — l sd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Offl.ce, a special Thynne-
paper edition of Tiie Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literarry communications to be addressed to J F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 6000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand, that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in HlacTc and, White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
San Francisco. — L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., S Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 30, 1902.
The Sydney Gas Monopoly.
The proposal of Law, M.L.A., that the
Sydney gas works should be resumed by the
Government and handed over to Sydney
Municipal Council, was rejected in a thin
Assembly by only two votes—2B against 26.
In a fuller House it might have been carried ;
if the See Government hadn’t thrown its
dead weight on the other side it certainly
would have been carried. The failure of
Law’s motion was a grievous pity —yet not
quite such a pity as it might have been. It
is difficult to see how the one municipality
of Sydney could take over and work a
business which extends over about 39 other
municipalities. A Greater Sydney Council,
with control of the whole gas area, could and
should do it, but a single council would
do the work under great difficulties. Again,
State Socialism is under a cloud just now
by reason of the great Sydney Resumed Area
swindle. When the N.S.W. Government
took over the plague-stricken district it
began to receive the rents, and at the same
moment it became liable to pay interest to
the late owners on the value of their pro-
perty. Instead of paying the interest out of
the rents it used the latter as revenue, and
paid the interest out of loans. That fraud has
added, probably, about £12,000 or £15,000
a year to this country’s interest bill for ever,
and has saddled the Resumed Area with that
additional burden, and it may have thereby
changed a good spec, into a bad one. It
certainly created an impression that neither
the See Government, which was responsible
for the fraud, nor the present Labor party
(or else the Labor party’s present leaders),
that made no serious effort to prevent
it, can be trusted to carry out any
great work of State Socialism on an
honest basis, and it is almost better to let
things wait a while than have a noble prin-
ciple discredited by association with moral
stinks of the Resumed Area character. A
few more such transactions would set back
State Socialism for a generation.
*
Further, The Bulletin would not like to
swear that it isn’t better that a great pro-
perty should be privately owned by Aus-
tralians than nominally owned by the State,
and really owned by a gang of money-lenders
in London. The Resumed Area business
made this change—that (say) £3,000,000 or
£4,000,000 worth of property which used to
be owned principally by Australians is now
owned wholly by English money-lenders,
and the N.S.W. Government is their agent,
bailiff, and rent-collector. The position
wouldn’t matter if there was any reliable
arrangement for paying off the debt and
making the Resumed Area really N.S.W.
State property, but there is none. Nobody
even dreams of there being one. The tran-
saction has added something like £120,000
a year to the tribute N.S.W. has to pay to
England ; it has vastly increased the absen-
tees’ hold upon Australia ; it has made the
Australian less, to the extent of several
millions, the owner of his own country than
he was before. And boosting up the absen-
tee isn’t State Socialism —also, it never
will be.
• * • »
There was no proposal or assurance in the
motion recently rejected by the. N.S.W.
Assembly that the gas business would be
worked on any cleaner a basis. If the
motion had been carried, the usual loan
would doubtless have been floated in
England, and probably, by some juggle
like that practised in the matter
of the Resumed Area, some £lOO,OOO
or £200,000 of the gas revenue would have
been annexed by the Treasury while the
negotiation was pending, and that amount
extra needlessly added to the debt with
which the enterprise was burdened. Then
an enterprise which is now mostly Aus-
tralian would have become really English,
and be really owned by the absentee. The
man with the mortgage is the real owner in
the last resort —and always will be. Then
some £30,000 or £40,000 or £50,000 per
annum would be added to the drain on Aus-
tralia’s resources. It would be a perpetual
drain, for no politician in this country ever
dreams of paying off any part of our foreign
liabilities, and nothing of the kind was sug-
gested in Law’s motion. His proposition
was to apply the profits to reducing the price
of gas—the idea of applying any part of them
to paying off the debt and making the works
really State or municipal property didn’t
get a mention. And it is probably better for
Australia to pay 15 per cent, to our own
people who spend the money in Australia,
than per cent, to the absentee, for the
same reason that the writer finds it cheaper
to pay himself 15 per cent, than to pay any-
body else 3k per cent.
• * * *
The Australian Gas Light Co. is certainly
a monopolist—and a most objectionable one.
But there are English importing firms doing
a large business here, and earning 15 per
cent., and sending every penny of it for dis-
tribution in England, which are far more
objectionable. They don’t own any mon-
opoly, but the man who makes 15 per cent,
out of us with a monopoly is no more costly
than the one who makes 15 per cent, without
one. And if the 15 per cent, monopoly
employs solely Australian labor, and spends
its profits in Australia, it isn’t one-quarter
so disastrous as the concern which pays wages
chiefly to outside labor, and spends its 15
per cent, in another country. The worst
thing that ever struck Australia is the
foreign-owned monopoly, of which the new
Adelaide tramways may be quoted as a
specially hideous specimen. The next worst
is the great mass of foreign-owned enter-
prises of all sorts —the foreign-owned banks,
fire insurance offices, mines, importing and
trading concerns, pastoral companies, land
companies (the Australian Agricultural Co.
may be quoted as an extra-hideous specimen),
the absentee property-holders, shareholders,
mortgagees, &c. The foreign manufacturers
who supply us with goods that we should
and could manufacture for ourselves rank
along with these. The absentee person who
owns a local industry is bad, but at least he
pays wages to Australians; when the
owner, foreman, workmen, profits and wages
are all absentees, the case is 20 times
worse. The foreign bondholder who has a
£200,000,000 mortgage over our public
works, our country, our lands, our future, our
souls, our Australia in general, is extra objec-
tionable. And the purely local monopolist
and local Fat Man, who at least are Austra-
lian and spend their wealth in Australia, are
objectionable—but by comparison with the
other lot they are almost respectable. The
Bulletin is proud (within limitations) of the
Australian Gas Light Co.—the bloated,
nefarious, extortionate, arrogant, and dis-
gusting Gas Co.—inasmuch as its existence
is a proof that Australia has something of its
own, and makes something for itself, and that
the mortgage of Cohen, of London, isn’t
quite universal. The Gas Co. is at least ten
times more respectable than Henniker
Heaton, spending his profits in England,
and not even seriously pressed by the Labor
party for an absentee tax.
* * * *
The United States is often quoted as pre-
eminently the land of millionaires. So it is
—but after the millionaire has had his
stupendous steal, there is more left for the
poor man than there is in Australia. The
millionaire in Uncle Sam’s country spends at
least a great part of his ill-gotten income in
Uncle Sam’s territory. Australia’s million-
aires are more rapacious but less visible.
We send £8,000,000 a year to the great
aggregate Cohen, who holds our national
securities in England, and even if he isn’t
one Cohen, but a great, joint, multitudinous
Cohen, the result is the same. We send
about another £8,000,000 to miscellaneous
creditors in England. The United States,
which has practically no foreign debt, doesn’t
pay tribute to all its millionaires put to-
gether on the scale of £4 per inhabitant per
annum and the money its millionaires
absorb isn’t wholly lost to the country, as in
our case. It is a bad thing to have a bloated
and arrogant monopoly such as the Australian
Gas Light Co. camped like a nightmare on
our chest, but to buy it up with English
loan money and exchange it for more absentee
Cohen would be worse. This country can’t
breathe for the amount of absentee Cohen
that is on its chest already. When is the
N.S.W. Labor party going to announce that
the price of its support—the only price at
which it will do business—is a very heavy
absentee-tax ? That would be making war
on a monopolist who is worth fighting.
Retrenchment in N.S.W.
Treasurer Waddell reports that this year’s
revenue in New South Wales is not likely to be
equal to that of last year, and that trouble is
ahead. Therefore the usual easy devices in the
way of sweating the public service are likely to be
adopted. Stopping the public servant’s increments
for a few years longer (they have already been
stopped, in many cases, for quite a number of
years) is the easiest thing yet invented in the way
of retrenchment. In Britain there is a corres-
ponding device, though one of rather a different
character; the simple, handy, mechanical way
over there is to put a penny on the income-tax.
What might happen to a Treasurer who proposed
that sort of thing here is too horrible to be thought
of. The N.S.W. revenue this year is almost
certain to be less than that collected during
the year just closed, for various reasons. A
number of revenue duties have been struck off
the tariff. The Protective duties that are left
in the tariff are hardly likely to yield so
much as they did last year, seeing that local in-
dustries are beginning, in some degree, to take
the place of imports. It is not desirable, either,
that they should yield so much, for the money to
pay for last year’s lavish imports, and for the
duties on them, was only obtained by foreign bor-
rowing on an incredible scale, and the people who
should have been employed here in making the
goods that N.S.W. imported were being sup-
ported by a huge and disastrous system of relief
works paid for by loans. Moreover, the wicked
and disreputable swindle that was done last year
by annexing the rents of the resumed area of
Sydney as revenue, while paying the correspond-
ing interest liabilities out of loans, can’t be
done over again on anything like the old
scale; it is practically an exhausted swindle.
The amount at the disposal of the See Govern-
ment last year was nearly £400,000 more than any
N.S.W. Government ever received before, and in
addition about £1,000,000 of expenditure, which
previous N.S.W. Governments had to meet, was
defrayed by the Federal authority, which left the
See Ministry with about £1,400,000 more to spend
than any of its predecessors.
m m * *
Under these circumstances it might have been
supposed that the See Government would be able
to pay off a million or so of the old deficits, and
reduce the interest bill, and make some prepara-
tion, in that one year of exceptional fatness, for
the more ordinary year that must follow.
Curiously enough it did nothing of the kind.
It got through all the extra revenue, and that
without paying any more than the usual amount
of the public works expenditure out of revenue.
It even had a new deficit, and it was
reduced to doing a most disreputable public
fraud with the resumed area rents to disguise that
deficit. It borrowed more than N.S.W. ever bor-
rowed in one year before. Even if the money
raised for the repurchase of the plague-stricken
quarter of Sydney is not included, it borrowed
more than was ever borrowed before except in one
awful year when Parkes and M‘Millan were
running amuck. It added £150,000 or more to
the annual interest bill in one large, vigorous act,
and it seems as if it may add another £120,000 or
£150,000 this year. And now that there is a
prospect of a return to something like normal con-
ditions—that is to say, to the old state of things
under which N.S.W. had, in proportion to popu-
lation, very nearly the largest revenue in the
world—there is trouble. Also, there is talk of
cutting down the pay, or at least stopping the
increments, of almost the only class of public
servants whose wages weren’t raised in the
Great Drunk Year just ended. And the
Treasurer is represented as saying that the See
Government is resolved that N.S.W. “shall live
within its means” —which reads like the most
impudent or the most profoundly silly joke of the
generation. The idea of a Government which has
just put on the N.S.W. record the 15th deficit
which the State has had in 23 years, which did the
resumed area swindle, and which uses over
£1,000,000 a year of loan money for works that are
said to be permanent and reproductive but which
it knows to be neither —the idea of such a Govern-
ment professing to care a straw whether N.S.W.
lives within its means or not is a humorous epi-
sode. It is a good many years since N.S.W. had
a Government which cared for anything except
making the accounts balance on paper by any
shabby fraud or trick that came to hand.
* * * •
The financial situation of N.S.W. may be
roughly summed up thus :
It uses up about £1,400,000 worth of its public lands
every year for revenue purposes—that is the amount it
receives from the absolute sale of lands ; and it can’t keep
square.
It uses about £1,000,000 a year of loan money as revenue
—that is to say, it uses that amount for works, patches
and repairs which are not in any sense productive of
income ; and it can’t make its accounts look solvent even
after that.
It has an income-tax (first collected in 1896) which,
though far below the British figure, is still a reasonably
large source of income, and it seems more bankrupt than
ever.
It has a reasonably heavy land-tax (first collected in
1897;, and the deficit arrives just the same.
It has a respectable, though not exorbitant, scale of
death-duties, which were greatly increased in 1899, and
it hasn’t made ends meet any better since the increase
than before. .
It has a very large customs revenue (greatly increased
in 1901), and the shortage comes just as when it had a
small customs revenue.
N.S.W. only makes ends meet even on paper in
one year out of three, and the question naturally
arises : Under what possible set of circumstanoes
does it hope or expect to make ends meet ? The
State is still only lightly taxed ; but taxation is
steadily becoming heavier, and each increase
seems to leave the finances a little worse than
they were before. There is no satisfaction in
saying that the public lands are a great asset and
good security for the public creditor; it ap-
parently requires every penny that N.S.W. can
scrape out of its public lands to pay its ordinary
daily expenses, and there is no margin left as
security for the public creditor. The railway
revenue doesn’t cover much more than half the
interest bill. Every few years a little extra
taxation may be put on, or a little retrenchment
attempted, but it is always done too late. The
idea is never to raise or save £1,000,000 a year
now, voluntarily, for public works, but to pay
everything out of loans, and later on to raise or
save the same £1,000,000 a year under com-
pulsion for ever to pay interest on the
money borrowed for these works, which might
as well have been constructed out of revenue in
the first place. It is never a case of putting money
in the bank, but always of scraping up enough to
get the coat out of the pawnshop. It is taking
time by the heels instead of the forelock. The
average Australian Treasurer, in his economical
mood —the mood that Treasurer Waddell says
he is going to get into—is, in his political deal-
ings, a swindler, a dodger, a persistent deceiver,
a person who gets money by false pretences, and
a faker of the public accounts ; in his extravagant
moments, he is worse than that. Treasurer
Waddell, by way of a great reform and a
general straightening up of things, proposes to
use, as usual, about £1,400,000 worth of the coun-
try’s land assets and about £1,000,000 of loans as
revenue, and if he makes the ledger balance after
that, his pride and inflation will probably en-
danger the front buttons of his waistcoat.
■ft • * *
A question will be raised some day whether the
Australian people have proved themselves fit for
the exercise of self-governing powers, and unless
there is a great reform in this country’s financial
methods the reply will probably be in the nega-
tive. It is one of the boasts of the British people
that they are, at present, the only really success-
ful colonising race on earth, but between the
French or German colony that lives on subsidies
from the mother country, and the British one
which lives on loans from the mother country, the
difference isn’t so very great after all. About the
worst shock Britain has had since Washington’s
time will be the great Australian bankruptcy that
must needs come some day, supposing the present
methods last. If Treasurer Waddell finds him-
self personally a great deal deeper in debt every
month than he was the month before he will go
bankrupt someday, and Waddell’s country will do
the same. The process always ends that way. And
then Australia will be a good country for any
man to be out it and to have his money out of
—a fact of which the A.M.P. Society, which is
seeking authority to invest its funds in Europe
and elsewhere, appears to have a glimmering.
Meanwhile there is a universal explanation to the
effect that the drought is responsible, which might
be a very good explanation if it were not that
Australian finance is just in as bad a muddle in
wet years as in dry.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Wobbling 1 Philpocracy.
The Philp Government is, apparently, ill at ease.
Already this session four virtual motions of want
of confidence have been submitted (two from
Govt, supporters), and the Continuous Govt, is
commencing to look very rocky on its pedestal.
The Income-Tax Bill has driven a wedge into the
hitherto solid Govt, phalanx—and it is only the
intense dislike of the rebellious Philpites to an alli-
ance with the Labor party that saves the present
Cabinet. And it needs some salvation. Two
past deficits of £528,000 and £431,000 (pro-
portionately to population, the highest in
Australia), and a coming one of possibly
£200,000, ought to be sufficient to damn any
Government, and an early damnation would be
the inevitable fate of any such Government in any
part of Australasia save Queensland. The Q.
Democrats have at least one satisfaction. They
see the Philpites driven, dead against their will,
to adopt the hated Labor programme—lncome-tax
now, Land-tax shortly, Shops and Factories Act
already, Arbitration and Conciliation in another
session or two —and they have the satisfaction of
knowing that if they don’t ride the old Govern-
ment horse themselves, they are at least a spur to
prod it into progress.
The Tatters of the Golden Fleece.
“F.M.” writes on the grimmest joke in Australia:
The great “ natural ” industry of Australia culminated
so far as N.S.VV. is concerned in 1891. Nobody believed
it at the time, no publicist save Coghlan has noticed it
since. Projects and comments have gone on as if the
bulk of the land was yet virgin and the supreme natural
industry only on the fringe of development. But ten
years of varying seasons have made it plain enough that
the 61,000,000 sheep of that year will never again be seen
within the borders of N.S.W. They were crammed on
the food-reserves which Nature had prepared from the
beginning of things, and, when these reserves were con-
sumed, normal years began to make facts plain, and bad
years to burn them in. If 50,000,000 were put on the
country again it would be in the certain knowledge
that 10,000,000 of them with their progeny must perish
miserably in the recurring cycles of drought. They
would die out faster than they have done in the seven
years just past, for the reason that natural reserves are
all gone ; trees lopped, scrub gnawed out, earth made a
desert over thousands of square miles ; and, there are the
rabbits, as difficult to reckon with, or against, as the
locusts. Apart from them, it is safe to assert that the
carrying capacity of the State is less by 25 per cent, than
in 1891, while its holding power against a drought is
practically destroyed.
That brings us to an estimate of 45,000,000 as the full
sheep stock of the State. With careful management and
a'considerable annual expenditure in growing and storing
fodder an average of 45,000,000 might be maintained;
beyond that number no reasonable forecast can go.
-How far will the return from 45,000,000 sheep go
towards making a nation and supporting a people ?
The “natural” industry prophets, whose Australian
ideas are on the grand scale, ought to face such questions
as those, but they do not. Their calculations are made,
and their forecasts based, on the supposition that we
have only to keep on squatting to keep on prospering,
multiplying, increasing all round. The plain and appall-
ing truth is that we can’t go on another inch. The limit
was reached and overshot in 1891. VVe can only hope to
get back as near to it as is Sife, and to keep thereby
such effort and expenditure as is hardly yet contem-
plated. What shall we find in that position in the way of
annual returns?
The terrible overstocking of 1891 produced £11,000,000
worth of wool. We might expect £10,000,000 worth
annually from 45,000,000 well-managed sheep ; for wool
was low in 1891, and statistics, which, however, need a
bit of explanation, show that the fleeces have mar-
vellously increased in weight during the past ten years.
But £10,000,000 a year would be a liberal estimate,
an amount not likely to be exceeded in any series of years
through half a century. It represents fairly the value of
the Golden Fleece of N.S.W., grown, shorn, packed and
delivered. It is not much to keep a people ; 100,000 at
£lOO a year eat it up. But N.S.W. has not, and cannot
have more than a fraction of it. Mortgagees and absen-
tees claim the bulk. A million a year, perhaps, out of
the land which grows it, and how much in wages ? Some


figures recently quoted by squatters and shearers in con-
ference enable'us to answer that question as regards the
main items of outlay. It was stated that through the
year one man to 8,000 sheep would be a fair estimate.
We will allow one to 5,000. It was also stated that 4,000
shearers would manage 30,000,000 sheep. They would need
to, if useful cheques were to be taken home. Thus we
arrive at 9,000 hands regularly employed to work the sheep
stock of the State and 6000 for the shearing. These will
be the bulk contributions of the Golden Fleece to the
“ nation of N.S.W.” —the employment of 9000 men as a
regular thing and the casual employment of 6000 more.
We don’t need to go out amongst all peoples and tongues
to make up those. There are three times the number
required now ready for the work within the State. Allow
6000 rouseabouts for the shearing season, and then not
more than half the available supply would be used up—
and it has not been used up for years past. Under a proper
system of organisation half the shearers employed could
have done the work very well; while there have always
been two rouseabout3 for one wanted, and from 10,000 to
20,000 of them living dingoes’ lives nine months of the
year.
Nor do we find many purple patches about the cul-
mination which has been reached and passed when we
look at its higher phases. How many of the “lordly
squatter ” tribe inhabit Toorak and Potts and Darling
Points now ? Are not many of the mansions turned into
boarding-houses, and most of those privately held, in the
occupation of softgoods men, mining speculators, and
usurers ?
The horrors resultant from the culmination reached
and passed have, perhaps, received sufficient publicity.
We will hope, for the credit of our common humanity,
they may never be repeated ; but the plain facts of the
strictly limited prospect do merit, and indeed demand,
more serious attention than they have yet received.
Now, if we take the fleece from the shears to the loom,
does the dream of our modern Jasons seem likely to be
realised ? The United Kingdom spins 510,000,0001b5. of
wool to turn out £61,000,000 worth of woollens. The
N.S.W. annual clip could not be estimated at more
than half that quantity. To produce the finished
voods the old country employs 302,000 hands.
There we have the limits of possibility set of the
mother State of Australia in the full development of
her “greatest natural industry,” the employment of—
say 200,000 hands —and the employment of 180,000 of
these depends on N.S.W. establishing what the Free-
traders call “ artificial ” manufacturing industries. The
Carnegie Steel Trust goes right over it, both in value of
output and hands employed. The realisation of that one
concern goes beyond ail the possibilities of the Golden
Fleece of N.S.W. Even the divine far-off event of Aus-
tralia, weaving as well as growing the Golden Fleece of
the world, does not flatter big hopes of nationhood. And
it is part of our madness to imagine that Australia has
any monopoly in wool, or the United Kingdom in
woollens. In 1897 the United States used 601 million lbs.
of wool against the United Kingdom’s 510 millions, and
grew the bulk of it herself.
Another N.S.W. culmination may possibly be noted in
wheat, for it is by nb means certain that the drought is
solely responsible for the curtailment of acreage. But
even in good years the Australian wheat crop is miserably
poor compared with that of most other countries in the
same line of business. That outlook is also rather ghastly.
And what remains in a “ natural ” way that is promising?
Butter and fru’t —yes. But only when we approach
them by “ unnatural ” means : by Protection and bonus
and effective State interference in the way of instruction
and control. There is abundant natural opportunity, but
our “ natural” philosophy people regard it all as one of
their ancestors might have regarded the natural oppor-
tunities of the sea, saying, “ Since iron will not swim it
is clearly absurd to talk about building iron ships.”
The present condition of the mother State of Aus-
tralia, too, shows what may be expected if the policy of
Freetrade and non-interference is worked out free of any
restriction or impediment. It is a terrible outlook. The
old State sickens for a storm of fiscal revolution. Its scari-
fied, denuded, hunger-stricken body is more like leprous
senility than budding adolescence. Under the “ natural ”
system we cannot in any conceivable future imagine it
rising to the level of Illinois or Pennsylvania. Our Golden
Fleece culmination is a fiasco. There are even in the one
old State inexhaustible and almost infinitely varied re-
sources which, in the essentials of wealth and prosperity,
do not compare meanly with those of the Mississippi
Valley. But mankind knows what policy has made the
great valley and its adjacent States the world’s wonder
which now appears, and Cobdenism, in face of it all, is
like tin-pot Atheism looking up at the stars and babbling
about Oome-by-Chance.
4
Reform a la Cowley.
Ex-Speaker Cowley (Q. Assembly) is about the
most stubborn reactionary in Q. Parliament. The
other night he moved an amendment in favor of
the withdrawal of the income-tax proposals and a
substitution therefore of a scheme for selling pub-
lic lands wholesale. In the course of a remark-
ably frank speech (for Cowley always lias the
courage of his opinions) the ex-Speaker gave as
his remedies for Q. depression and deficit—the sell-
ing of State lands, the selling of State railways to
anyone who would buy, and the charging of fees to
schoolchildren. With a little provocation, Cowley
would probably revert to the old methods of forced
loans and benevolences—in fact, there is no telling
where he would halt in his retrogressive career.
The Opposition showed its appreciation of
Cowley’s principles and amendments by voting
en masse with the Govt. —and the Govt, didn’t
seem any too flattered thereby. The Philp Govt,
is bad enough, but the Cowley regime would evi-
dently be ten times worse, and would be adapted
only for a country of sugar-kings, monopolists,
mean whites, and meaner Kanakas.
4
The Imported Fodder Farce.
An exceptionally bitter yell of rage on the subject
of the fodder duties was blown off last week by
Premiers See and Philp— especially Philp. It
began with this telegram from See to the adjacent
Premiers:
I would strongly urge that you invite your Parliament
to pass a resolution, to be presented to the Acting-Prime
Minister of the Commonwealth, asking the Federal Par-
liament to remit the duties on fodder until the break-up
of the drought. The loss of stock in N.S. Wales and
Queensland has been enormous. Every day adds a con-
siderably increasing number to the deaths, and the con-
dition of many parts of these two States is deplorable.
This Government is already carrying fodder for starving
stock over its railways at a merely nominal rate. I am
also communicating with the Premiers of the other
States, and should be glad of an early reply.
Irvine, of Victoria, replied, declining to move in
the matter. So did Jenkins and Lewis, the
latter pointing out that N.S.W. ought simply to
refund the duties itself on its own imported pro-
duce. Philp, of Queensland, replied with a yell
of indignation, cut after this pattern :
Re fodder duties, I think it quite useless to ask Federal
Government for any concession. They have already
refused, and seem quite callous about what happens to
any of the States.
It seems to be really time these two very inferior
mummers, _ Philp and See, dropped this silly
farce, which they have enacted so long.
Everybody who knows how the financial
arrangements of the Commonwealth are
worked is quite aware that Philp and See
could allow their people to import all the fodder
they want duty free, if it was really fodder that
Philp and See wanted, and not rather a chance
to snarl at the Federal Government for its anti-
Kanaka legislation and other progressive measui-es.
Philp can tell his allegedly distracted pastoralists
to import 50,000 tons of fodder any day, and,
when it comes to hand, instead of the distracted
pastoralists paying the duty, the Philp Govern-
ment can pay it by giving its own State cheque to
the Federal Treasurer on the 31st of the month.
And on the Ist or 2nd of next month it will get
back its share of the surplus, which will be larger
by just the amount of the cheque than it other-
wise would be, and Queensland won’t have paid
any duty after all. It will have got its fodder in
free, which, Philp says, is the thing it is
craving for. Also, See, if he really wants
fodder, can do the same. Of course such a
scheme wouldn’t work if they wanted to send
that imported fodder into some adjacent State,
for then the adjacent State would demand its
share of the duty ; but either See or Philp can
cover his oivn State with imported fodder 6ft.
deep and not pay a copper of duty—he has merely to
hand over his State Government’s cheque for the
customs tax, and get it back again. If the distress
in their respective States can be alleviated by
imports of fodder—if the pastoralists want im-
ported fodder, and have money to pay for it —
then Philp is about the most callous politician
Australia ever possessed, and is deliberately
ruining his own State for no visible reason unless
to keep up a cry against the Federal Government
—the Government which is taking away his
beloved Kanaka. If he adopted the simple pro-
cess of importing fodder duty-free, as he can do
any day, then, of course, his yarn that a brutal
Federal Government prevented him doing it would
fall through, and apparently it is better to let
Queensland be ruined than have that lie fall
through. Premier See, apparently, doesn’t want
dutyfree imported fodder in N.S.W. (which he
can get any day) nearly so much as an all-round
suspension of the duties so as to deprive the hated
Victorian of his share of Protection. And Irvine,
of Victoria, as his State doesn’t want imported
Argentine green stuff, naturally refuses to ask the
Federal Government to suspend the duties merely
to gratify anybody’s parochial animosity. As See
and Philp can work their own suspension of duty
any moment they like, Irvine very naturally
leaves them to help themselves. There is no cause
why he should sacrifice what he regards as the
interests of his own State to oblige two men who
don’t in the least degree require the sacrifice, and
who would gain nothing by it, except possibly the
gratification of a mean, sordid animosity. There
is no reason at all why the Federal Gov-
ernment, either, should suspend the fodder
duties in Victoria, Tasmania, and S.A. at the
demand of any ill-conditioned person who is
playing to the gallery. If Philp and See are so
callous to the alleged needs of their own peoples
that they won’t help them when they can do it
without a penny of expense, they can’t expect
sympathy. Supposing any association of dis-
tressed pastoralists imported 1000, or 50,000, tons
of Argentine or any other hay to Brisbane or
Sydney, they would certainly be met with a
demand for the duty. The money thus paid would
go to the Federal Treasurer, and from him back
within a month to Philp and See. And if they
chose to refund it, then all would be well, accord-
ing to their own showing. As a matter of fact,
they callously decline to refund a copper, and
their attitude apparently is that every animal in
their two States may die before they will refund a
copper.
♦
Kingston’s Gliost.
James Hingston being dead and unable to pre-
vent the waste of coin, it is hardly surprising that
his bequest to Melbourne Benevolent Asylum is
now “ before the courts.” Any man who aspires
to be a public benefactor after death can safely
reckon on providing sport for the lawyers.
It is always happening when the executors
of deceased are not personally interested
in keeping the last will and testament out
of the courts. James Hingston thought he
had provided against the probability of the
residue being nibbled by sharks when he said:
“As to the rest and residue of ray real and
personal estate, I give and devise the same to the
treasurer for the time being of Melbourne
Benevolent Asylum to be applied towards the
purpose of re-building that institution on a ground
floor plan.” The lay mind sees James Hingston’s
intention shining out of that sentence. He
bequeathed £25,000 towards rebuilding the
“ Benevolent ” in such a way that its aged inmates
would not need to climb upstairs to bed. If the
amount of his bequest is insufficient to pay for an
entire rebuilding the ghost of Hingston wishes it
to be safely invested until capital and interest will
suffice to accomplish the reformation. The lay
mind sees this. But the legal mind sees £25,000
of a dead man’s money available for a law-suit,
consequently the Benevolent Asylum has been
advised to bring a friendly suit (how much of dead
men’s gold has gone to pay the costs of friendly
suits?) against the Equity Trustees, Execs, and
Agency Co. A “summons for directions as to
place and mode of trial” happened last week,
when “ his Honor directed the parties to set out
the facts by way of a special case for consideration
of the court.” Perhaps a few interpleaders and
things will pave the way to the trial that looms in
the distance. Only two legal firms and a pair of
barristers (plus the representatives of the Crown,
which chips into such eases on general principles),
—only six makers-of-costs are on the job at
present, but there may be more to follow. Mean-
while, the ghost of Hingston shudders in dismay.
The sharks have got their teeth into his intentions.
♦
Cohen and his Rand Slave System.
Those Australian “democratic” members and
“friends of the working-man” who profess
now to be sorrily surprised that a conse-
quence of the destruction of the Boer
Republics is the boycotting of white labor
in favor of Chinese and enslaved Kaffirs on
the Rand, have more cuteness than candour. It’s
all very well for them to say, or to hint, that “if
they had but known,” their war-attitude would
have been different. They did know, must have
known, the main object of Cohen in waging war
upon the Boers with the British army ; but were
weak and cowardly enough to drift with the Jingo
movement and assist with Australian men the
biggest movement to boycott white labor in the
world’s history. Cohen showed his hand long
before the war was waged. If Kruger had been
amenable to the suggestions of Cecil Rhodes,
and the German Cohens and the French and
American Cohens, he might have had their help
to paint all South Africa'yellow, but he preferred
a pastoral Republic to a plutocratic bureaucracy,
and so went down before the cohorts of Cohen.
As recently as 1897 a Commission was appointed
by the Transvaal Govt, to inquire into the ques-
tion of labor at the Rand mines, and before the
Commission Cohen formulated these demands:
(1) The reduction of the wages paid to Kaffirs
working in the mines from £3O to £l5 a year-; (2)
the imposition of a head-tax (one witness suggested
one of £24 a year !) on all Kaffirs not working in the
mines. The two suggestions involved the absolute
enslavement of the Kaffir population for the bene-
fit of the mine-owners. The Boer Govt, refused
to agree to the proposals, though a modification
of them was recommended by the Commission (in-
fluenced by the unanimous testimony of 14 mine
managers that some approach to Kaffir slavery
was necessary). The evidence of that Commission,
and the reports of various other movements on the
part of Cohen to work the Rand mines by slave
labor, have been available in Australia for the past
five years to anyone who cared to make inquiries ;
they were repeatedly commented on in the anti-
Jingo papers; but most of the “democratic”
members were too anxious to curry favor with the
respectable merchants who had butter and meat
to sell at the War Office, to take any independent
stand then. Now they wish to say “if only they
had known ! ” Sincerity is indeed rare in politics.
+
Dairymen and Factory Legislation.
From shire councils throughout the length and
breadth of Victoria there is proceeding, at present,
one broad stream of motions, beseeching the
Government, in agonised terms, to refrain from
extending the operations of the Factories Act to
country districts. At present the Act is confined
to the larger towns, but it can be applied to any
shire by the simple method of proclamation. The
measure expires shortly, but the Irvine Govt,
has promised to re-enact it until it can be recon-
sidered, as a whole, in the light of the nearly-
ready report of the Factories Act Special Com-
mission. As the House of 48 Rich Landlords is
doing its best to block the re-enacting Bill, and
so allow the Act to lapse altogether, the munici-
pal councils deem it a favorable time for putting
in their plea; and, until the composi-
tion of these councils is considered, their
unanimity on the matter is truly surprising.
Most of the councils adopted the resolution
unanimously ; not two per cent, threw it out; and
even local bodies which have heretofore stood
wisely by their rule of not meddling in politics
have, for the first time, gone on a political burst
and cursed the Act vigorously. The composition
of the councils, however, makes their denuncia-
tion almost valueless. The great bulk of their
members are either graziers or dairymen, and the
majority of the ratepayers who elect them are also
either landowners or dairymen. The employees
in the butter factories and dairies are either
without a vote at all, or are in an insignificant
minority. The wail of the shire councils is that
the application of the Factories Act to the dairy-
ing industry “is impracticable,” that “it will
cripple one of our great industries,” and that it will
absolutely ruin the poor, unfortunate dairyman.
At the present time there are four classes of the
country community highly interested in the dairy-
ing industry—the landowners, the tenants, the
factory and dairy employees and the business
people. The only class that will be affected by
the Act is the first —the landowners, who are orga-
nising the present httack on the measure. Even
amongst this class the operation of the Act will be
but partial. The small landowners who do their
own work, or only employ one hand, have nothing
to fear from the Act. Put in a nutshell, its effect
will be to reduce the tremendous rents which the big
landowners at present draw from dairying tenants.
A few years ago the best grazing land in the western
district of Victoria was only worth 10s. per acre per
annum. To-day, however, the same land is being
eagerly competed for at up to £2 per acre, accord-
ing to its proximity to a creamery. The success of
the butter industry is the cause of the immense
jump in land values, which jump has, of course,
also extended to capital values.' Men who gave
£lO and £l5 per acre for their farms 12 or 15 years
ago find that they can sell them to-day at £3O or
£4O. The result of the new industry has been to
vastly increase the wealth of the farmer, whether
he be landowner or tenant; the storekeeper and
other business men have shared the prosperity;
but the employee has been left out in the cold
completely. To pay the high rent which com-
petition has caused, and to enable the dairyman
to live well, the wages of the man who does the
hard work have been ruthlessly cut down. It is
only in the rarest circumstances that £1 a week
and board is given ; 17s.‘ 6d. is reckoned a good
wage; and the majority of the hands have to be
content with 12s. fid. or 15s. In numbers of cases
as low as ss. and 7s. 6d. is paid. To earn this dole
the men have to work about 14 hours per day, and
put up with inferior accommodation and, in too
many instances, with poor food also ! It is the
exception for a man to be employed all the year
round. The same paper that constantly wails that
the dairying industry cannot pay Factories Act
wages states that the monthly payments from the
Colac factory include cheques to individual far-
mers for £lB3, £162, and so on. The industry can
pay wages, and something over, if the rents are
reduced and dairymen are content with a fair
thing. There is a standard gibe at “ the proposal
to subject cows to the eight hours and holiday
system.” No one proposes to join trades-
men’s conditions on to dairying necessities. What
the employees want is good wages, good food,
and good sleeping accommodation. If these were
granted there would be nothing heard of the
difficulty of securing labor in the busy season.
Under present conditions no dairy employee can
dream of marrying and becoming a responsible
citizen. Even the factory employees, whose
condition—though not satisfactory—is several
stages above that of dairy hands, find marrying a
precarious venture. “ 1 had once,” writes a
Bulletin correspondent, “a little sympathy
for the dairyman who rented his land ; but I find
he is as little deserving of it as his landlord. In
many cases his first proceeding is to employ a
‘family,’ consisting of father, mother and
children, who are given a third or a fourth of the
gross returns, or else a lump sum per annum.
This lump sum is the most outrageous sweating.
It ranges from £5O a year, with only a house
found, for a married couple, up to £l5O for (say)
husband, wife, four sons and two daughters, who
all milk. The herd milked by the latter will
range from 100 to 150 cows. The tenant has the
rosiest of times when he has ‘ a good family ’
doing his actual work ; and cases are even known
in which the tenant takes a house in a neighbor-
ing town, where he lives in comfort with Ins own
family, on the difference between his receipts
and what he spends on rent and ‘ family.’ ” The
extension of the Minimum Wage Law to the
dairying industry would secure better conditions
for factory and dairy employees, and attract a
better class of employees than the hulks and semi-
larrikins who at present do the work. And the
extra cost would bring down rent values by, say,
2s. 6d. or ss. per acre per annum. Even then the
landlord would get times what he received a
very few years ago.
Our Mother-in-law’s Navy.
There is much significance in the steady
hostility which England displays to any proposal
that Australia should build and man war-ships of
her own; _ Such action by Australia would
mean a reinforcement of the Imperial naval
power in any time of foreign trouble. Whilst
England preserves her attitude of benevo-
lent non-interference in Australian affairs, each
Australian warship would be practically an
addition to the English navy, with the prospec-
tive additional value that it would possibly, in
time, evolve some differences in training and
equipment which (as in the case of the army)
would be serviceable to British naval commanders.
But England is resolute that we shall not build
ships, but shall confine our naval enterprise to
providing old-age pensions for an out-of-date
squadron of her navy. Further, and more signifi-
cant still, England is equally resolute that we
shall not even train a modern naval force by
giving them a period of active service on one of
the cruisers in Australian waters. It is a remark-
able attitude for a country to take up which is so
sure of the “union of hearts and hands,” and
which confesses to so deep an obligation to Aus-
tralian soldiers in the last war. Fortunately, it
is an attitude which may be completely ignored
as soon as the Australian Parliament _ cares
to take the responsibility of building or buying its
first battleship. And that should be soon. The
present “ Australian Squadron ” is admittedly
obsolete ; it is admitted that it can, and possibly
would, be withdrawn from the Australian coast
when war was raging. For the protection of our
coast shipping a few, very few, modern cruisers
and coast-defence ships are required. Over-sea
shipping (after we’ve had a proper Protectionist
system for a few years, and make our own iron and
steel, and weave our own cloth) might be inter-
rupted for a few months without actual disaster.
Australia therefore only wants a small, up-to-date
squadron to police her own waters, and to pay for
it would not involve very much greater expense
than the present subsidy to the obsolete Auxiliary
Squadron. The issue is one of paying 30s. for
what is useful rather than 20s. for what is useless.
Bird’s Dream.
Treasurer Bird, of Tasmania, has ideas about
the advisability of establishing a regular sinking
fund for the repayment of the island’s debt, now
very large and very burdensome. To this end he
suggests that portion of the money received from
land-sales, and possibly something from general
revenue, should be set apart and accumulated.
At a rather late hour, Bird admits sorrowfully
that many of the “ permanent and reproductive ”
works on which loans have been spent answered
to neither adjective. As to the reproductiveness,
published official statistics show that out of
£8,500,000 which Tasmania owes, about £4,500,000
has gone for unproductive jobs, which it was
a gross and disreputable swindle to charge to pos-
terity. As regards the alleged permanence, Bird
admits lugubriously in his old age that in many
cases the tracks are overgrown, the bridges and
wharves are worn out, the rolling-stock has gone
to the scrap-heap, and other things are dead, lost,
decayed, damned, perished, or obsolete. All
these things Bird has discovered in his declining
years—and he proposes that Tasmania shall go on
borrowing, the new debt being a dead certainty,
and that, as a set-off, Tasmania shall either pro-
mise to put away a certain sum every year, or
actually put it away, with the great probability
that some hard-up Treasurer will seize it later on
to make good his shortage. The simple fact that
can’t and won’t soak into Bird’s intelligence is
that the simplest, cheapest, and surest sinking-
fund is just to leave off borrowing and pay for all
new works out of revenue. The orthodox
sinking-fund policy consists in borrowing (say) <£l
in London at 3 per cent., receiving only 18s. 6d.
for the money, and paying 4d. out of that for
expenses. Then the interest is remitted to
London every year for 47 years, by which time
the country has paid another 3d. for exchange.
And, meanwhile, if the sinking fund is a real
success, £1 is laboriously put away here to re-
pay that 18s. 6d. (which professes to be £1) at
maturity, and while the £1 that is borrowed there
costs about 3h per cent, interest, the £1 that is
accumulated here probably realises about 3J per
cent. And after the £1 here (which is the sinking
fund) has been gloated over for 28J years it goes
amissing, and there isn’t any sinking fund after
all. The country that doesn’t borrow needs no
sinking fund, just as the person who isn’t diseased
requires no bottle of medicine. The promise to
establish one is only the opium pill that
this country uses to deaden its conscience
with; Australia is full of financiers who are
borrowing now and are going to establish a sink-
ing fund year after next. If these financiers will
leave off loans and use the money that is going to
be put into that fund for their public works, it
will save much worry, discount, exchange, and un-
reality. It will be all the sinking fund that Aus-
tralia needs for the present anyhow. Later on,
when the habit of not incurring new debts has
become fixed, the repayment of old ones may be
considered, but the habit of not incurring new
debts is required first. N.S.W. is still trying to
pay off its liabilities with the sinking fund that
jDibbs was going to start in 1892, and it knows
the elusive character of sinking funds. And every
other State has at some time or other been going
to do the same thing that Dibbs was going to do.
N.S.W. Public Service Board.
“Canonicus” (from an inside knowledge) writes :
“ As the career of an officer in the Public Service will
depend entirely upon his personal conduct and the
manner in which his duties are performed, he is pro-
hibited from seeking the interest of influential persons in
order to obtain promotion, removal, or any other
advantage.” Thus regulation 20 made by N.S.W. Public
Service Board—admirable in tone, and perfect in theory,
but, unfortunately, in practice a dead letter. These are
the facts :
The State of N.S.W. contains a large area. A certain
portion, east of the coastal range, cool, green, healthy,
and pleasant to live in ; west of the Blue Mountains, hot,
parched, drought-stricken, the necessaries of life dear, its
conveniences and pleasures absent. These conditions in-
crease in intensity the further back one travels, until
west of the Darling, what with climate and absence of
railway communication, life is a perfect hell upon earth.
In every Dept, there is a number of officers, equal in
rank and ability, who are continually being promoted and
transferred. But, while some are mysteriously kept dur-
ing the whole of their service on the eastern side of the
dividing range, others are plainly told that if they desire
promotion they must consent to go to the extreme
western parts of N.S. Wales.
Why is this difference made ? That it is made may
easily be proved by searching the Govt. Gazette and
noticing the towns each officer has been stationed at
since he joined the service. The P.S. Board cannot evade
the responsibility by saying that they depend upon the
recommendations of the various Under-Secretaries ; they
are not obliged to accept those recommendations, and
they either have, or should have, before them, when con-
sidering such matters, the record of each officer’s service.
And they surely know enough of the geography of the
State to be able to estimate the difference between Wal-
gett, Narrabri, Cobar, Bourke, Wilcannia. and Milparinka,
on the one hand, and Armidale, Glen Innes, Goulburn,
Cooma, Yass and Maitland on the other. They are sup-
posed to act impartially. Why do they not do so?
Here are a few recent instances picked at random from
the Gazette 1. 14 years at Nowra —promoted to Glen
Innes. 2. 11 years (from commencement of service) at
Junee; thence to Moruya; thence to Braidwood. 3.
Goulburn to Cooma; Cooma to Braidwood; Braidwood
to a travelling inspectorship. 4. Sydney to Murwillum-
bah; Murwillumbah to Moruya. 5. Bingara to Glen •
Innes ; Glen Innes to Armidale. 6. Tenterfield to Glen
Innes ; Glen Innes to Grafton. And so on. On the other
side I saw a 1 fecent paragraph describing the send-off of
an officer who had been stationed 14 years at Tilpa, on
his promotion to Menindie ; another from Tibooburra to
Carrathool.
It is useless to ask the Board why such things occur,
and equally useless to ask the Under-Secretaries. The
point is—they do occur, and are sapping the morale of the
serviee. The old plain unvarnished system of patronage
was at least candid, since every officer knew it was
hopeless to expect promotion without it. The Board was
appointed to put a stop to the system, but it has
demonstrably failed to do so. If, with a proclaimed
policy of impartiality, patronage still flourishes rankly,
choking individual effort, something must be wrong.
That something must be either the system or the persons
who administer it. Which is it ?


THE LARGEST AND BEST IN THE WORLD l
The Mutual Life Insurance Go. of New York
NET FUNDS, January 1,1902, £71,975,776.
Principal Agency in Australasia; Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
Z. O. RENNIE, General Manager.
SAWMILL MACHINERY,
BAND or CIRCULAR MILLS, very heavy for
hardwood timber. Complete Outfits of any capa-
city. BAND RESAWS. ENGINES. BOILERS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
PULP MACHINERY. GRIP PULLEYS.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 CLARENCE BTREET, SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “ A Chinese Honeymoon,"
Lyceum “ Riding to Win/*
Twoll Rickards* Co.
Palace.... “San Toy.”
Criterion “ The Lady Slavey."
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess •• Mice and Men."
Her Majesty’s “Robin Hood.”
Theatre Royal “ The Ladder of Life."
® IJOXI “ The Lady of Ostend."
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Hall Fisk Jubilee Singers (Sept. 3).
*
TTie Brough season at Sydney Royal will
end, in the ordinary course of things, with “ The
Adventures of Lady Ursula” to-night (Thursday),
and “ The Liars ” to-morrow (Friday). This last
. Brough season closes brilliantly, in an artisttio
way of speaking; it doesn’t close half so brilliantly,
in a financial way of speaking, as it should do.
.Nobody has been killed, or even maimed, in the
rush on the stairs at the Royal, and the demand
for high-class plays produced in good style by a
good company has been frantic, but limited.
1 hat is to say, a few people have franti-
oally demanded these high-class plays, and
a good many haven’t. There is nobody visible
on the furthest, dimmest horizon who is likely to
take Brough’s place. _ Nobody in his line of art,
and with even half his capacity, proposes, so far,
to rush for his job of supplying Australia with a
brilliant new play about every fortnight, at half
London prices. His departure will leave a gap,
which the best , efforts of Robert Henry’s co. and
such-like organisations will be quite insufficient to
fill*. The fact that Brough goes and Pumpkin
Smith and Robert Henry remain is one of those
inscrutable matters that bristle up on this globe’s
surface like the spikes of the incomprehensible
porcupine.
*# * *
The Royal re-opens on Saturday, under
Musgrove’s management, with “A Chinese Honey-
moon.” Why the yellow man should be encouraged
to have a honeymoon when the white man in so
many cases has to take his bride direct to a cheap
hash-emporium The Bulletin knoweth not, but
the fact is there. There are to be 60 voices in the
chorus of the “Chinese Honeymoon,” and con-
ductor Gustave Slapoffski is to whirl the sapling
in the seat of office, and an immensity of pomp,
gorgeousness and frill is understood to have been
expended on the arrangements. The “Chinese
Honeymoon ” is said to be past its 300th night in
London—which may be a recommendation, and
again it may not.
** * *
“San Toy” still progresses merrily at
Sydney Palace, and the fun of it doesn’t become
wearisome with familiarity. Mr. Graham, as Li,
contrives to get a good deal of local color into his
songs, and the reference to the Australian soldiers
going to war amid cheers and coming back “to
get the sack ” always raises a sardonic laugh ; but
there are generally a few returned cohentingenters
in the audience to whom it is a cold, unpleasant
truth, and this section of the crowd laughs under
difficulties. The mandarin Yen How “makes
up ” to imitate a certain church dignitary not now
in Australia, and takes him off to the life in
appearance, voice, and lofty hauteur ; yet it took
a fortnight for anyone to notice it. The dignitary
in question has got a stammer in his nose, and
Mandarin How has got that to perfection.
*& * *
This week sees the last of “ With Flying
Colors,” at Sydney Lyceum. “Riding to Win”
take 3 its place this Saturday. Friday will conse-
quently be the last night of the unconvincing
murder and the convincing railway train, which
has a more solid look than its kind usually
possesses, besides blowing real steam out of itself
in a masterly fashion. Much horse and small
feminine-looking jockey may be looked for in the
next production.
** * #
“ The Lady Slavey ” continues to show
domestic service from its brightest aspect at
Sydney Criterion, while her millionaire admirer
occasionally walks between rows of admiring
ladies in a procession of one, while they chant
their desire to be his gilded bride. Judging from
the type Mr. Bradley presents, the American
millionaire is a much dressier and better-behaved
individual than the Australian sample. The
writer has seen few Commonwealth “million-
aires ” who couldn’t pretty easily be mistaken
for the man who comes for the garbage-box.
** * *
At Sydney Tivoli there are several new
faces and a bioscope, which, in realism, is equal
to, if not ahead of, anything that has been so far
seen in this city. The pictures were taken on
board an Atlantic liner, and the climbing waves
look so real that you can’t stand and look at them
without clutching at something. One visitor was
so much overcome that he clutched at a lady who.
didn’t belong to him, and, as he forgot to return
her, divorce proceedings are pending—at least,
some such rumor is circulated on improbable
authority. Spry, who made a first appearance on
Saturday, is a comedian of the Coleman type, and
gave a turn which was too long to keep the
audience interested to the end. The Drews now
share with Cinquevalli the chief favor of the
public. Illness kept Mrs. Drew off the boards
on Monday, and Mr. Drew very much lessened
the disappointment of the audience by a clever
speech of apology. By the time this issue goes to
press Mrs. Drew will probably be back again,
having her unworthy affection for a dog cured in
summary fashion by a small a but capable and
enraged husband.
** * *
Cinquevalli confesses to 43 years on this
earth, more than a quarter of a century of which
he has spent on the boards. The graceful,
panther-like athlete earns an enormous salary,
and some years ago, having amassed a satisfac-
tory fortune, decided to give up juggling and
retire into private life. At once he became ill.
His muscles shrank away ; his heart began to
fail, and he couldn’t sit down for a few minutes
but his legs would grow cold. Doctors saw him,
E rescribed, and left him in full enjoyment of
is mysterious illness. Then one day, wearied
with sickness and ennui, Cinque, went to a
cupboard and took out some juggling plant. An
hour spent in doing impossible things with a
cannon ball and other trifles acted on him like a
tonic, and in a month or two he was back on the
Btage. “It is better to be a well juggler than a
sick gentleman,” says Cinque, with a smile—
but he is juggler and gentleman, quiet,
unassuming, always. The secret of health, to
his mind, is to balance a chair on the tip of
your nose and catch a heavy weight on the back of
your neck several times a day. Cinquevalli,
though so strong, weighs but lOst. 41bs., and
would be counted lean by most; his greatest care
is not to get too muscular, or “ muscle-bound,” for
his need is to be agile. He, rightly, judges the
cannon-ball feats to be his best display of accurate
Strength.
** * #
Sydney Comedy Club, by kind permission
of Robert Brough, will, at the Queen’s Hall, next
Tuesday (Sept. 2nd), produce “The Pickpocket,”
in aid of the funds of that deserving object, the
Women’s Hospital. The plan is now open at
Nicholson’s, and there are hopes that the produc-
tion will be up to the high standard attained by
the club during the past five years.
** * *
Melbourne Royal, where the villain stalks
his prey and graves give up their dead, was a very
crowded place of resort last Saturday night, owing
to “The Ladder of Life.” Probably “The
Ladder ” is the strongest of the Andersonian melo-
dramas, in the purely commercial aspect. Nearly ’
everything that ever happened in any other drama
comes to pass what time Nihilist Kartchikoff and
the wicked nephew are earning their wages of sin.
Kartchikoff arrives early on the scene in a brown
velveteen cycling suit, which sets forth his chub-
biness to great advantage, and the moment he
comes to hand he draws a knife with the intention
of killing .Miss Duggan, whom he doesn’t yet
know by sight. As soon as he learns her identity
he forgets the knife, and thenceforth the
amusing foreigner adopts all possible means of not
effecting his purpose. When he gets the lady
in a chloroformed state he merely puts her under
a Great Nasymth Hammer and pulls a lever so
that the Hammer may smash her gently, but the
instrument of death is such a long-winded delusion
that three cockney Highlanders let themselves
down through the roof and avert the catastrophe.
Later on, the procrastinating Kartchi. is prevented
from killing Miss Duggan by her timely decease.
She prefers to pass away unaided. Miss D. is the
second person to die during this virile entertain-
ment. In the first act Inman’s wooden-headed
parent expires under the impression that Miss
Guildford has been guilty of an intrusive small
boy who calls her “mother.” Also Inman mis-
trusts Miss Guildford on account of this unclaimed
offspring, therefore the virtuous spinster wanders
at large and clings to the small boy in
her sorrow because he still calls her “Mother.”
Meanwhile, a gladsome old hag, whose counten-
ance shames the midnight sun, has been farming
the infant for blackmail purposes, and the Gallant
Gordons have scaled the heights of Dargai with a
screel of bagpipes. Also, Inman is kept out of
his property by a missing codicil which lies hidden
under the bodice of the steam-hammer lady, but
eventually a comic person named M‘Dougall
shoots Kartchikoff at sight, and the codicil is
accepted as proof that the evil nephew has out-
raged the martial law of Devonshire. So
M'Dougall, having murdered the Rooshan with
impunity, orders a file of soldiers to arrest the
nephew on principle, whereupon the clouds roll
away from Miss Guildford. And the waif who
called her “ Mother,” because there was no other,
is happy in her own sweet home, along with
Inman. Truly, a stirring domestic drama of
military interest.
* * • •
“ The Ladder of Life ” spares no expense
in the spectacular department. Ten tame steeds,
20 brass instruments, supported by a big drum,
and more than 100 human auxiliaries in uniform
are paraded before a roaring stage multitude of
lesser numerousness. The heroism of Anderson’s
Gordons is such that the enemy accuses them of
fighting like tigers, and the British Blag asserts
itself more than usual. There are no flies on
“ The Ladder.” Miss Duggan, who acts all the
better for having had a rest, Edmund Duggan,
Miss Guildford, Walter Rivers (as a silent con-
sumer of beer and ’baccer), and especially Miss
Leighford, as the elderly female with the com-
plexion of Coronation-red, deserve a good word
all round. Likewise Bert Bailey, and the violent-
colored scenery, and the gentlemanly villain who
appeared on Saturday instead of Willard.
#* * *
The second Saturday night of “Robin
Hood,” at Her Majesty’s (Melb.), promised a satis-
factory four weeks’ run for DeKoven’s opera. Public
opinion has decided by a considerable majority
that pretty music covers a multitude of weak-
nesses and foolishnesses in this instance. The
composer made a horrible mistake when he con-
fided his work to an unimaginative Smith and
sanctioned the perpetration of a hybrid opera
which lacks even a suspicion of romantic interest.
There was sufficient musical and historical incen-
tive to construct a pretty little story with some
“wholesome fun” and old-time color in it, but
Henry B. Smith missed the ’bus. He might have
borrowed a brighter idea for the plot from some
forgotten “Robin Hood” pantomime-book, and
he could have gone to half-a-dozen literary sources
for words and phrases that sound suitable to the
long-bow period. Smith’s dialogue is annoying.
Miss Florence Young, who plays the comparatively
serious character of Allan-a-Dale, has to say, in re-
ference to the 12th oentury hero, “Although he is
a peer, he is one of the finest bowshots in all
England. What a pity he is not an outlaw! ”
Dame Durden, who ought to be cut out of the
narrative altogether, tells Lauri that she will cook
a steak for him. The modern tone of the libret-
tist’s small-talk grates on one ear whilst the cheery
melodiousness of De Koven’s airs appeals to the
other. Fortunately the song words are inoffen-
sive when distinctly enunciated, and, as they are
mostly unintelligible, the music goes on its
delightful own. A charming number at the begin-
ning of the second act is given by Stannis Leslie
and chorus. The air is very sweet, but nobody
can guess what the foresters are singing about
until Florence Young remarks casually in her
strong, incisive voice that “it takes nine tailors
to make a man.” The audience feels grateful to
the mezzo for throwing light on the subject. Her
warble is ever honest and straightforward. She
sings for half the company and enunciates for the
whole crowd and makes no fuss about it. Also
she acts her part conscientiously, and doesn’t take
long to recover from a sore throat. When the
present scribe hears people remarking that Miss
Young is “very stiff” he acquiesces in the objec-
tion and wishes that a lot more Australian
sopranos would stiffen likewise. Further remarks
on De Koven’s feast of tune are held over till next
week. The performance grows easierall the time,
and Hugh Ward’s sham upper lip is becoming
part of his living self. In fact, the protruding lip
serves as a sounding board and gives, new force to
his limited power of speech. Having started a
resonant lip, Ward had better make a stage fixture
of it.
its * * *
“ Sweet Nell ” will be sassing Jeffries for
the last, last time, at the Princess’s, on Friday
night, and, on Saturday, a new comedy is to pre-
sent Musgrove’s Dramatic Co. in less gorgeous
apparel than it has hitherto worn in Mel-
bourne. The new comedy, written by a lady, is
called “Mice and Men,” and the character of
Peggy, a foundling, which Nellie Stewart has
undertaken, is said to fit that adaptable artist
admirably. Harcourt Beatty appears as “ a
scholar and philosopher,” and Peggy, judging
from her name, is the crude doctrine that breaks
the philosopher up. A theatrical Peggy always
does break things up.
** * *
The Bijou returns to life next Saturday,
when the Hawtrey Comedy Co. will play “ The
Lady of Ostend ” for the first time in Melbourne.
The co. comes this time with the recommendation
of a long career behind it, and the prospect of
some more career before it. Farcical comedy has
been off the local market for six months, or
thereabouts, and the frivolous populace that has
not witnessed a ‘ ‘ convulsing situation ” for half-
a-year is just about ready for a new shriek in
three acts. Persons in delicate health, who have
been warned not to laugh too heartily, can take
courage from the assurance that “Lady of
Ostend ” was written by the author of London
Punch.
** * *
The Florenz Troupe, likewise Madame
Yeamans-Titus and the various “turns” —single
and double —that appeared last week at the
Opera House, are appearing again this week.
Also Sandow continues to cast his muscular
shadow before, although the advt., at time of
writing, had not named the exact date when the
German professor will commence to pull up
Bourke-street by the roots and support the G.P.O.
on his beautifully developed stummick.
** * *
This is a time of concerts and casual en-
tertainments in Melbourne, and the halls are busy.
At the Athenaeum Hall the Marvellous Corricks —
and particularly Miss Alice of that ilk—will
appear for five nights, terminating on Saturday.
Next week the Fiske Jubilee Singers (M'Adoo
brand) will return to the Athenaeum and resume
their unorthodox ditties concerning Jordan, and
Moses, and the Ark.
** * *
At the Town Hall next Saturday afternoon
a benefit concert will be tendered to Walter Kirby,
to raise a fund whereby that much-improved
vocalist “may continue his studies in Europe,” a
district which is thusfar foreign to the young man.
The affair will be tendered very gently, for
Walter, as all the ladies know, is just about the
mildest mannered tenor who ever cut a note or
took a purse. An influential committee has taken
up this mellifluous and deserving cause, and the
list of artists on the bill includes the names of
many who rarely appear at Town Hall benefit
musters —Miss Nellie Stewart, Madame Slapoffski,
George Lauri, George Lyding, and Miss Olive
Kingston, the most cultured of young Australian
singers.
* * *
The death of Dick Stewart, the elder, at
Melbourne, last Sunday, brought forth some bio-
graphical notices which must have discon-
certed a number of greybeards. Many grizzly
inhabitants had a complacent way of claim-
ing to be about the same age as “Our
Nellie.” When they said, and they said it
habitually, ‘ ‘ Bless my soul! she’s as old as
I am, if she’s a day,” they were safe from contra-
diction. Their younger hearers could only gaze
at those sexagenarians in astonishment, and re-
mark that Nellie was a wonderful woman for her
years. It was rather a sore point with
the late Mr. Stewart that his clever daughter
had had a decade added to her age by
ungallant ancients, professing to speak from ex-
perience, but the actress who starts her career as
a child is bound to be horribly libelled in that
respect. Dick Stewart landed m Australia 50
years ago as a young man of 25, and, after trying
his luck on the goldfields in N.S.W., he was per-
suaded to take to the stage. Made his first ap-
pearance at the Victoria Theatre, Sydney, early
in ’56, and played there for fully four years before
shifting to Melbourne with Barry Sullivan,
in 1860. It was in Sydney, after he became
recognised as a rising comedian, that handsome
Dick Stewart married Mrs. Guerin, a popular
actress and singer, who survives him. Their two
children, young Dick and Nellie, were born in
Sydney prior to the Melbourne engagement in
1860. Any elderly cynic who can make out
Nellie Stewart as old as he is on those
figures, bless his soul ! must be a mar-
vellous mathematician. In 1877 Stewart pere
took his two stepdaughters, Maggie and Doey,
and daughter Nell, on a tour through Maoriland,
America, and England. They were back in Mel-
bourne for the Christmas Panto, at the Royal in
’7B, and it was then that the youthful, travelled
Nellie of Ours made her first appearance as a
principal boy. The Bulletin rises to affirm, not
necessarily on oath but as an answer to future
disputants, that the Nellie who played principal
boy in Melb. Princess’s panto, last Xmas, was
“ about 18 ” when she got her first engagement in
that capacity 24 years ago next Xmas. To err ia
human where dates are concerned. To err grace-
fully is divine.
»* * *
Melbourne Princess’s was closed on Mon-
day night out of respect for the late Mr. Stewart.
On Tuesday “Sweet Nell” was to be resumed
with Miss Sadler in the name part for that night,
perhaps for the remainder of the week.
** * *
At Adelaide Royal, Charles Holloway has
produced “Dangerous Women,” a title that may
fairly be used for almost any of his plays. This
one ends with the coming to life of a drugged
heroine in a vault, but does not noticeably resem-
ble “ Romeo and Juliet ”in other respects. Ade-
laide has supported Holloway so well that he is
about to move over to the Tivoli and play a
further season there. Comic opera will reign in
his stead. The Tivoli itself has been doing splen-
did business at slightly increased prices during the
Sandow boom, but has now for the moment closed
its doors. The co. is working along to Melbourne
via Bendigo and Ballarat, a projected Broken
Hill season having fallen through. The strong
man introduced some showy feats with a big grey
horse towards the last. In one of the most effec-
tive, an assistant lies flat on the stage, and
Sandow, lifting him by the belt with one hand,
tosses him into the saddle. Tom Nawn and the
Wilton Brothers helped to make up an excellent
programme.
The Wild Cat Column.
The Union Bank op Australia continues to
prosper greatly:
Written
Profits. Dividends. oft. Reserves.
Aug., 1896 £58,838 5 p.c. =£37,500 £lO,OOO £1,024,489
Feb., 1897 37,578 5 „ „ 37,500 1,024,567
Aug., 1897 37,436 5 „ „ 37,500 1,024,503
Feb., 1898 47,696 5 „ „ 37,500 10,000 1,024,699
Aug., 1898 42,579 5 „ „ 37,500 1,029,778
Feb., 1899 42,071 6„ „ 45,000 1,026,849
Aug., 1899 48,514 6 „ „ 45,000 1,030,363
Feb., 1900 92,002 7 „ „ 52,500 50,000 1,019,865
Aug., 1900 79,825 7 „ „ 52,500 25,000 1,022,190
Feb., 1901 86,628 8 „ „ 60,000 25,000 1,023,818
Aug., 1901 95,681 8 „ „ 60,000 35,000 1,024,499
Feb., 1902 96,714 8 „ „ 60,000 25,000 1,036,213
The profits are at the rate of £7 13s. 3d. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders’ funds as at the commence-
ment of the half-year. The reserves consist of reserve
fund, £900,000 ; contingency fund, £lOO,OOO ; and undi-
vided profit, £36,213. The Union has had an unusually
large increase of business during the past six months,
deposits increasing from £14,678,803 to £15,418,748. Cash
and liquid securities are not much changed, and stand at
a shade over £5,000,000,
• * • *
The prospectus of the Commonwealth Mutual
Insurance Co. (for fire, marine and any other kind of in-
surance, life excepted) is published in Sydney, with the
names of a strong directorate attached. J. E. Ducker,
of the Mutual Life Buildings, Sydney, acts as broker. It
is 16 years since a new fire insurance co. (the North
Queensland) was founded in the Commonwealth and
survived, for the Victoria General was merely a reor-
ganisation of an old business. And a woeful number of
Australian fire offices have died, perished, burst, or
sold out—mostly sold out—since the North Queens-
land (which is a Sydney institution, despite its name)
was born. Both the Queensland offices, all four
S.A. offices, six N.S.W., five Victorian, and three
Tasmanian fire insurance companies have disappeared
in sixteen years! Possibly more have vanished, for
the writer speaks principally from memory. For
the sake of keeping Australian business in Australian
hands, and retaining the profit in the country,
the new company is a thing to be highly commended—
and, if it had sufficient interest in the institutions of its
own country to keep its bank account in an Australian
bank instead of an English one, it would be still more
commendable. The fact that it is a non-tariff office would
be a pity if the tariff, as it is in Sydney, was not so
ridiculously ill-managed, and, in some cases, so ex-
tortionate. The nominal capital of the Common-
wealth Mutual Insurance Co. is £250,000. At pre-
sent, 100,000 £1 shares are offered, ss. to be paid up, and,
if they are all sold, the co. will start with £25,000 paid-up
capital. Very few Australian offices began on so large a
scale as that. In the days when Sydney was the head-
quarters of eleven fire offices (instead of five, and one of
them really in English hands, as at present), and you fell
over a fire office at every corner, only three of them had
over £20,000 paid-up capital. In these days (1888), about
the biggest fire and marine offices in the Federal States
were the Cornwall of Tas. (£BO,OOO paid up), South Aus-
tralian (£62,500), Mercantile Marine of S.A. (£50,000),
Southern, Vic. (£50,C00), U.A.M. of Vic. (£31,858),
Australian Mercantile Union of Vic. (£33,655), Australian
General of N.S.W. (£42,000), Sydney Lloyds (£33,240)—a1l
as dead as Julius Caesar. Luckily, the business seems to
have grown more stable of late years and the existing
offices are mostly doing well. In fact, some of them are
doing so well that the profits screwed out of their clients
amount to an outrage.
• • * •
The Australian Deposit and Mortgage Bank
(Melbourne), with a revenue that is not improving
materially and with no special immediate prospects, con-
tinues to perpetrate the unspeakable folly of paying divi-
dends that are not earned, or anything like earned.
Dating from the last re-arrangement, when the debit
balance was written off out of forfeited capital, results
have been:
Added
Dividends (Prefer- to
Profits, ence Shares only). Reserves. Reserves.
Dec., 1896 £978 Nil £978 £978
June, 1897 912 Nil 912 1,890
Dec., 1897 1051 Nil 1051 2,941
June, 1898 1207 Nil 1207 4,148
Dec., 1898 1400 Nil 1400 6,548
June, 1899 1257 Nil 1257 6,805
Dec., 1899 1575 Nil 1575 8,380
June, 1900 1521 Nil 1521 9,901
Dec., 1900 1640 Nil 1640 11,541
June, 1901 1222 Nil 1222 12,763
Dec., 1901 1634 1 per cent. =£2793 11,604
June, 1902 1522 1 „ „ 2793 10,333
The earnings represent 6s. 7d. per cent, per annum on the
paid-up capital of £920,048 (£558,655 preference and
£361,393 ordinary), or 10s. lid. per cent, per annum on
preference capital only. How long the A. D. and M.
Bank hopes to carry on with its dividend absorbing nearly
twice the earnings is a mystery. A Writing-down of
capital is talked of, and is certainly much needed. If the
ordinary capital was wholly written off, and the preference
capital written down to £lOO,OOO, the A. D. and M. Bank
would be able to pay 3 per cent, dividends on the basis of
its present earnings and have a little—not very much-
over. That would mean a writing-off of £820,048, which
would be a very drastic proceeding, but it is quite evident
that a considerable sacrifice is required to put the institu-
tion on a good working basis again. At present the new
deposit business appears to be dying away to nothing,
current accounts being only £9527. A little, but only a
little, is being done at'repaying the old reconstructed
deposits, which were reduced during the past half-year
by £1153 (from £413,269 to £412,116). While the present
condition of things lasts the A. D. and M. Bank is almost
wholly a property co., holding about £1,300,000 worth of
mortgages and foreclosed assets left on its hands from
the days before ’93. And until it writes off all losses it
doesn’t seem likely to get together a large new business
again.
* * * *
“ W.S.” (Leichhardt): The par referred to the
preference shares of the Commercial Bank of Australia.
* • * •
The Land Mortgage Bank of Victoria
(Melbourne) has, for the half-year just closed, struck a
patch of what, in the experience of that desolated institu-
tion, might fairly be called luck. It wasn’t exactly per-
manent luck, but even a casual windfall is something.
Since the bank wrote its accumulated deficits off capital
(at June, 1900) progress has been as follows :
Visible
Loss Loss by Profit on
on Discount Total Repur- De-
Busi- on pre- Loss, chase of ficit.
ness. paid Deben-
calls. tures.
Dec., 1900.. £2263 £459 £2722 £2722
June, 1901.. 1049 666 1614 4336
Dec., 1901.. 1792 169 1961 6297
June, 1902.. 1023 36 1059 £7185 171
The Land Mortgage Bank has a paid-up capital of £249,197
£285,716 of capital and £118,161 of reserves having been
written off at various time. The capital has increased by
£29,000 during the last half-year, and the proceeds were
applied to the repurchase of 3£ per cent, debentures—the
profit made on the transaction constituting the streak of
luck shown above. There are still £601,540 of debentures to
he paid off, and no visible way of paying them except by
further calls. When a sufficient amount has been paid off,
the reduction in the interest bill will enable the Land
Mortgage Bank to show a profit, and then a continuous
improvement may be looked for. At present, however,
the investments yield a gross return of only £3 10s. 7d!
per cent, per annum, and, when allowance is made for
working expenses, the £860,000 worth of assets don’t
yield enough to pay 3£ per cent, interest on the £601,540
worth of debentures. There is no possibility of doing
new business under present conditions, and the Land
Mortgage Bank is merely a property-holding concern.
When the calling up of new capital has shifted some more


The
TRAMWAYS. TRA.MWA.YS.
Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Proprietary, Ltd.,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY, ’
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material
IWF" Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p. TEg
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories Steel
Sleepers, Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical
advice gratuitously rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated
Catalogues and Photographic Albums showing Tramways constructed in differed
parts of the World, upon application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager. '
1
r
wSr
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big- prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Gable address: “ Option,"
Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Go., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* » » •
To Mine Managers who use Suction, Drill or
Air Hose, Packing, Valves, etc. The Dunlop Rubber
Mills, Melbourne, want your business. In return they
offer you the finest rubber goods in Australasia, at prices
unequalled by any other house. Depots all States.
Samples and prices on application. One trial solicited.*
* * * *
City Leader, July, 1902: “We can only say
as before that for security and reliability the Colonial
Mutual takes a high place in the assurance world.*
* * * *
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-street, Melbourne,
having returned from his visit to England, is now pre-
pared to purchase approved Mines and Mining Properties
situated in any part of Australasia requiring Capital for
Development and Machinery. Only genuine and
legitimate ventures, capable of bearing the strictest
examinations, will be entertained.*
* » * *
Very extensive alterations and improvements
have just been completed at the engineering works of
Mephen Ferguson, Melbourne. The principal item of
interest is a new Electric Welding plant, which is now in
use welding the steel-plates required in the manufacture
of the patent spiral riveted pipes which are in such large
demand for water-supply, mining and other purposes.
The new method of welding is giving very satisfactory
results, and is well worth seeing.*
• • * *
The antidote to cyanide poisoning, as supplied
by Ernest de Beer, 439 Bourke-street, Melbourne, has
been approved by the Victorian Mines Department as
being the only real antidote known. All who use
cyanide should keep one or two of these on hand. The
price is 10s. each.*
• * » •
A Sure Fortune.—The best investment in
Australia is buying land at Esperance, W.A., the natural
port of the Kalgoorlie goldfields. With a railway,
Esperance will become one of our busiest ports, as the
trade of the goldfields will pass through it. A permanent
survey is now being made ; the railway is a certainty.
Get in early and make a fortune by purchasing a few
blocks before the great rush sets in. Price, £2O a block.
Terms, £1 a month. Write for plans and particulars to
The Esperance Land Company, Nicholson Ohambers,
Swanston-st., Melbourne.*
* * • •
Many doubtful claims have been advanced on
behalf of duplex pumps. Some makers state that their
duplex pumps are “ double the capacity of single pumps
of same diameter and stroke.” An A. S. Cameron single-
acting pump can be run safely and comfortably at a speed
that would knock a duplex pump to pieces. But even at
a low speed, duplex pumps seldom attain even their
theoretical capacities, and the reason for this can be
readily explained. Apply to the Agents, Messrs. W. and
J. Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, for
further particulars. The A. S. Cameron pumps are noted
for their simplicity, durability, and absence of outside
valve gear.*
* * * *
The Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Coy.
lately decided to instal electric power transmission plant,
to drive portions of their extensive plant, and call for
competetive tenders for the work. The contract was
awarded to the Austral Otis Engineering Company of
South Melbourne, Australian agents for the well-known
firm Continental firm Ganz and Co. The plant consists
of two sets of generators direct coupled to high speed
compound engines, each 120 horse power, and four
motors, together with all the electric connections and
switchboards. The Austral Otis Company have also
lately installed as agents for Granz and Co. a complete
lighting and power plant for the Great Southern Consols
Gold Mine, Rutherglen, including electric locomotives
for underground haulage. To enable them to give com-
petent and reliable advice to users of electric plant, they
have engaged on their staff a highly trained expert
electrician from the works of Granz and Co., Buda Pest,
Hungary.*
• * * *
About the best Brand for Sheep now in the
market is Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and
is considerably cheaper than any other. It will dissolve
in the scour, and should certainly be used by those who
hope to get a good price for their wool. E. Rich and Co.,
Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* * * *
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£494,910 is invested in the States. Lowest rates and
prompt settlements.*
* * * *
Long Tunnel amalgamation project has been
further complicated by a proposal to take over the two
mines, on behalf of an English eo. This proposal has
intensified the difference of opinion between the co’s as
to the relative values of the two mines. The project for
the formation of an English co. is a good one, and indi-
cates a desire on the part of English investors to acquire
sound producing properties rather than mere prospecting
ventures. Should the project for the purchase by an
English syndicate fall through, Long Tunnel co. has
signified its willingness to submit the question of values
to arbitration.
* * * *
Queen Cross tops the Towers’ (Q.) record with
24900 z. from 788 tons for a fortnight’s run. Market value
of mine at present is £500,000. The average for the past
few months will have to be continued for years to justify
this figure. Proposal to increase number of shares from
100,000 to 200,000 is purely a move for market purposes—
sunshine-hay-making policy which doesn’t argue much
faith in the mine.
* * * *
The street-corner man “with a good thing in
his pocket ” has assumed of late that tin was the fashion-
able metal for flotation purposes in England and that it
was as easy as falling off a log to sell a tin-property there
A Londoner declares otherwise. He writes : “ It‘is most
difficult to place tin mines in this market and I think you
could do better with them in the colonies.”
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Under license from the A.G.O. of A. Ld.
SPOT or FORWARD. LOWEST PRICES.
Storage can be arranged.
HT. HI ARK WALD,
Melburne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Auckland
Dunedin and Wellington.
of the debenture burden, and the values of the properties
have gone up largely, or have been largely written down,
the institution may become a live concern again. Even
now, its loss on the half-year’s business shows a diminish-
ing tendency, which is something to go on with.
• • • •
Tenders have been received for the long-post-
poned Sydney-North Shore bridge, and it appears that
the structure can be built for something under £1,500,000,
which isn’t so very much after all. The work is not a
State undertaking in any fair or proper sense of the term,
though so far no one seems to dream of regarding it
otherwise ; it is strictly municipal, and should be carried
out by the Council of Greater Sydney. There is no need
to go into debt for it either. The building of the bridge
would spread over two, or possibly three, years, and a
special rate of 2s. in the £, levied on the metropolitan
area for three years, would pay the whole bill. That
would make the rates of Greater Sydney for these three
years about 3s. 6d. or 3s. 9d. in the £, and in England the
average is about ss. or 6s. in the £—not for three years
only, but as a regular thing. Sydney has been waiting
and crying out to the State for 40 years for a bridge that
it could have built itself any day without turning a hair,
and that any British city of its size would have built long
ago, as a matter of course.
* * • *
The New Sooth Wales Fresh Food and Ice
Co. (Sydney) publishes, for the half-year to 30th June,
1902, another balance-sheet which shows a good profit
without, seemingly, bringing the possibility of dividends
any nearer. The last seven half-years show these results :
Written
Profit. Dividends. off. Reserves.
June, 1899 £9256 8 per cent. =£6120 £3OOO £32,726
Dec., 1899 7327 8 „ „ 6120 1400 32,533
June, 1900 6465 6 „ „ 4693 1500 31,805
Dec., 1900 2587 Nil 2000 32,392
June, 1901 4510 Nil 86,902
Dec., 1901 4541 Nil 41,443
June, 1902 5340 Nil 46,783
The profit is equal to nearly 6£ per cent, on the paid-up
capital (£165,114). Yet despite the apparently respectable
profits, and the suspension of the dividend for two years,
and the fact that, during the past 3£ years, the sum of
£7900 has been written off and £14,193 added to reserves,
the Fresh Food and Ice Co. doesn’t look any better off-
in fact it looks worse off. At the end of 1901 the bank
overdraft was certainly reduced, partly, at least, through
the proceeds of the sale of property at Lithgow, but this
liability is again increasing. The net overdraft (credit
balances and cash on hand being deducted), has been as
follows:
Net Overdraft.
June, 1899 .. £8,106 June, 1901 .. £26,540
Dec., 1899 .. 12,643 Dec., 1901 .. 15,054
June, 1900 .. 22,149 June, 1902 .. 20,839
Dec., 1900 .. 21,394
Since June, 1899, £12,114 capital has been called up ;
£14,193 of profits have apparently been accumulated,
mostly through the stoppage of dividends, and the lia-
bility to the bank has increased by more than £12,000.
This doesn’t look a promising state of things, nor does it
look healthy.
* • • *
The N.S.W. Fresh Food and loe Co., by the
way, has an imposing asset in its balance-sheet: “ Plant,
Goodwill , etc., £208,517.** Goodwill items are always
objectionable, and always dubious—especially in the case
of a co. whioh isn’t paying dividends, for then it is
exceedingly doubtful if the goodwill is saleable at any
price. And when the amount of the dubious item is con-
cealed it is especially open to objection.
• * * *
Some recent figures and facts concerning the
Mutual Life Insurance 00. of New York are as follows:
Total Added
Income. Claims. Expenses. Out- to
„ goings. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1895 9,978,939 4,748,815 2,135,762 6,884,577 3,094,362
1896 10,421,359 6,262,203 2,107,705 7,369,908 3,051,451
1897 11,312,833 5,316,642 2,063,053 7,379,695 3,933,138
1898 12,116,267 5,071,029 2,157,406 7,228,435 4,887,832
1899 12,932,673 5,540,220 2,535,825 8,076,045 4,856,628
1900 13,018.126 5,404,560 2,674,923 8,079,483 4,938,643
1901 14,267,844 5,968,433 2,830,329 8,798,762 5,469,082
The total assets of the Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New
York at the close of 1901 were £71,975,777. Its income is
larger than the Government revenues of Bulgaria,
Denmark, Greece, Holland, Portugal, Roumania, Servia,
Sweden, Norway, Switzerland, of any of the seven States
of Australasia, of any of the South American republics,
bar possibly Brazil; of any Central American State, or
Mexico, or any of the smaller German principalities. In
fact, the States which have a larger income can almost be
counted on the fingers.
The expense rate of the Mutual Life of New
York continues to be rather heavy, though it is distinctly
improving. This is how it shows up :
Expenses Compared with Total In6ome.
1895 .. £2l 8 1 per cent. 1899 .. £l9 12 2 per cent.
1896.. 20 4 6 „ 1900.. 20 10 11 „
1897.. 18 4 9 „ 1901.. 19 16 9
1898 .. 17 16 1 „
If the revenue of the Mutual Life of New York, like that
of Australian offices, consisted solely of premiums and
interest, it would have only been about £13,400,000 last
year, and the expense rate would have been over 21 per
cent. But the sale of bonds and securities at a profit
added £864,509 to the income (in depressed Australia it
is generally rather a case of writing off depreciation of
the assets), and this greatly increased the revenue, and
correspondingly reduced the expense rate. Taking all
things into account, however, the stupendous Mutual of
New York is not a very cheaply-managed office.
The interest earnings last year equalled £4
os. 7d. per cent, per annum on the average funds for the
year, but the interest and profit on investments taken
together represented £5 ss. 6d. per cent., which is an un-
usually large return and one calculated to help the
bonuses along materially. The extra revenue from the
improvement in the value of the investments keeps on
steadily year after year, and considering the remarkable
prosperity of the United States, it seems that it may
do so almost indefinitely. The Mutual Life of New
¥ork has a list of assets to which no exception can be-
taken, barring always that item “ balance of the year’s
premiums when paid annually or quarterly, deductible
from the amount assured in case of claim.” This dubious
paper item amounts to only £402,024, and out of the sur-
plus of nearly £13,000,000 the co. could write off such a
miserable and obscure “asset” without its loss being
noticed. Why it doesn’t do so is a mystery. The Mutual
Life of New York is an exceedingly solid and prosperous
institution, and, considering how enormously its business
has grown even in the last seven years, the point at
which its expansion will cease (presumably everything
must cease somewhere, some day) is a matter for interest-
ing speculation.
* * * *
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Limited (Sydney)
closed what looks like an exceedingly good year on 30th
June, 1902, though there is a legend that the last
12 months have been a period of unmitigated disaster to
everybody connected, directly or indirectly, with the
pastoral industry. There is still, however, a complete
silence on the matter of dividends:—
Profits. How disposed of. Reserves.
1897.. £lB4l Written off.. £lB4l £7500
1898.. 2731 „ .. 2731
1899.. 4043 „ .. 4043
1900.. 6555 ~ .. 6555 ”
1901.. 5569 „ .. 5569
1902.. 12,299 „ .. 12,299
The reserve fund has remained stationary at £7500 till it
becomes a weariness. The profits for the year to June
1902, show a splendid increase, but the necessity of pro-
viding for “ bad and doubtful debts ” swallows them up
as usual. During the past six years £33,038 has been
applied to provide for bad and doubtful debts, which
is a good deal in the case of a co. whose assets, even on
paper, only total £110,839. Among them, by the way
there is a paper or goodwill item of unknown amount (it
reads “Goodwill, office furniture, plant, &c., £25,000 ”
and how much of it is goodwill doesn’t appear) which
requires writing off as well as the " bad and doubtfu
debts.” No debt is worse or more doubtful in bad times
than goodwill. Nothing whatever is said as to how
much more “ bad and doubtful debts ” there may be to
write off before dividends are resumed, but a good sign
of progress is the reduction of the liabilities, which has
progressed as follows
Bank Other
Overdraft. Liabilities. Total.
June, 1899 ..£65,437 £6,680 £72,117
„ 1900 .. 55,741 3,009 58,750
„ 1901 .. 39,406 4,283 43,689
„ 1902 .. 30,241 10,799 41,040
The interest paid was £2337 in 1899 ; £2120 in 1900 ;
£1648 in 1901; and £1049 in 1902 ;so that burden has
diminished considerably. Despite the large earnings,
however, the reduction made in the aggregate liabilities
during the past year is less than usual.
• * * •
London County Council proposes starting a
fleet of municipal ferry-boats on the Thames. It will
probably succeed, because in England the profits of such
enterprises are generally applied in reduction of the
original debt till it is wiped out, and then if bad times
come there are only working expenses to pay. It would
probably fail in Australia, because here the profits would
be spent as they came in, and even repairs would be
partly paid for out of loans, and finally the enterprise
would carry a bigger debt than it could stagger under.
The greatest enemies of State Socialism in Australia are
its own advocates, who allow a grand principle to be dis-
credited by dishonest administration.
» • * •
The Standard Mutual Building Society
(Melbourne) hardly keeps up to the level of last half-
year :
Profits
Pro- on Written Re-
fits. Pro- Dividends. off. serves,
perty
sold.
July, 1595.. £l5l £llB7 £18,052
Jan., 1896.. 291 1039 17,304
July, 1896.. 475 2962 14,817
Jan., 1897.. 440 896 14,367
July, 1897.. 885 1711 13,541
Jan., 1898.. 476 1190 12,827
July, 1898.. 657 2250 11,234
Jan., 1899 . 904 12,138
Juty, 1899.. 1011 692 12,457
Jan., 1900.. 739 73 13,123
July, 1900., 1269 660 13,732
(£49,600 capital written off)
Jan., 1901.. 1451 £l2OB 6942 9,449
July, 1901.. 1541 609 10p.c.=£2401 474 8,724
Jan., 1902.. 1952 1277 6„ = 1434 10,519
July, 1902.. 1803 793 6„ = 1434 485 11,196
The ‘ 1 profits on properties sold ’’ are not really
profit; the value of the great mass of foreclosed pro-
perties was written down out of capital, and where a
surplus is realised on sale it simply means that part of
the supposedly lost capital has been recovered. The real
profits (t‘1803) are £149 less than they were six months
ago, and don’t leave a very large margin after the 6 per
cent, dividend is paid.
• * * *
S.A. Govt., which is making some kind of a try to
keep its accounts square, has not .yet sacrificed the State
Wine and Produce Depot in London, though tempted to
do it by a Royal Commission which lately sat, with the
Agent-General as chairman, in London. Ex.-Gov. Kin-
tore, who has a keen scent for divs., proposes a co. to
take up the business, the Govt, putting up about half
the capital of £70,000 ; and the Commission half-heartedly
recommends this, or something like it. The trouble is
that the depot takes the wines that are sent to it and
makes the best of them, and does not, as an ordinary
trader would, select and buy only the wines for which
there is a market; though why the State shouldn’t do
what every sane private person does is not clear. And
anyhow it seems a bad time to quit the business now ;
for while in the years ’9B and ’99 it cost in advertising
and subsidies £7975 to sell 139,399 gallons, 226,519 gallons
were sold in 1900 and 1901 for £4962. Apparently a very
big success is not far off.
•
A few recent figures concerning the Denton
Mills Hat Factory Co. (Melbourne) to June, 1902 :
Profits. Dividends. Written
1894 .. £2,927 10 per cent. ■= £2,330 —* £5,330
1895 .. 2,976 10 „ „ 2,330 £4,558 1,418
1896 .. 3,074 10 „ „ 2,330 2,162
1897 .. 3,367 10 „ „ 2,830 1,823 1,376
1898 .. 3,628 10 „ „ 2,330 2,674
1899 .. 3,156 10 „ „ 2,445 3,385
£3l New Share Premiums carried to Reserve .. 3,416
1900.. £3,114 10 per cent. = £2,450 4,080
1901 .. 2,857 10 „ „ 2,450 4,487
1902 .. 2,955 10 „ „ 2,450 4,992
* m m m
Dear B., —Seeing that sec. 26 of the Melbourne
Tramways Act, ’B3, gives Parliament the right, at any
time after ’99, to revise the fares oharged by the co.—
without said 00. being entitled to any compensation—one
wonders why Melbourne citizens and councillors haven’t
moved Parliament to “ revise ” the fares to 2d. all round
long ago. Then, instead of the grasping monopoly urging
the value of its unexpired concession as a reason why it
demands an outrageous price to be bought out, it would
have represented itself as a poverty-stricken body on the
verge of insolvency—-and could have been suddenly
brought to a state of sweet reasonableness. Is it that
too many councillors and Ms.L.A. are shareholders?—
F.O.
• * • *
Over the recent forgery of Hustler’s scrip, Mr.
C. W. Long, one of the best-esteemed members of Sydney
Stoek Exchange, loses £lBOO or so. The “ plant ” was
most deliberately “put up” on him, and seems to have
been an absolutely perfect exposition of the confidence-
trick. This is the first forged scrip which has been
accepted by Mr. Long’s office in over 30 yearß.
• * * *
The most important change made for many a
day in the internal management of the B.H. Prop, is the
abolition of night-shift (midnight to 8 a.m.). Night
shift means that the man has to try to sleep by day ; and,
in a climate like Broken Hill’s, that is often impossible.
Result, limp workmen and poor results. The change is
possible through the gradual opening up of much wider
faces of ore than formerly, so that the men on the
other two shifts can be increased without crowding. To
keep these big faces of ore continually available the
1000 ft. level is now being developed. So far, only Block
10 works ore at that depth. The Sulphide Corporation is
also preparing to explore at 1000 ft. It has not a deep
enough shaft on its own mine, but has bought an old
prospecting venture next door (the Extended, which
thought it was going to get the underlay), and is driving
from that.
Of B.H. Prop.’s 960,000 shares, 632,735 are now
on the London register. Adelaide holds 162,016, Mel-
bourne 102,878, Sydney 43,138.
• * * «
The market was justified in its scare at the news
of the movement underground in B.H. Block 10 ; for
there was absolutely no telling where it would stop. As
it turns out, the close re-filling of worked-out ground
with refuse brought the creep to a standstill before
much actual harm was done. It is worth noting that
most of these movements take place on the boundary of
two mines—in this case, Block 10 and the Central (Sul-
phide Corporation). The truth is that each co. depends
on the other to keep that section of the lode propped up
for its own sake, and in the end both of them take out too
much ore and put in too little support, and the trouble
then isn’t long in coming. On the whole, Block 10 is
well plugged up ; but it needs it all, for it occupies a
most ricketty section of the lode.
The people on the other side who are generally
able to give some idea of the course of the metal markets
have been owning lately that they don’t know. So far as
they think they may know a little, copper and zinc
(spelter) prospects are good, tin is uncertain : lead, bad.
So far as lead is concerned, what disturbs them is that
the imports to the U.K. go on increasing in spite of the
low price. With the highest at £l7 10s., 98,378 tons were
imported in the first half of 1900 ; with the highest at £l6
10s. in the first half of 1901, the imports got up to 107,231
tons ; now, in the past half-year, with £ll 16s. 3d., as the
top price, 116,942 tons came in. Meanwhile the exports
keep fa11ing—25,952 tons in 1900, 26,686 tons in
1901, 20,433 tons this year. There isn’t a single big
lead-producing country bar Australia that is not dump-
ing in more of the metal, apparently in an effort to even
up profits ; Australia can’t do that because—except as to
two or three mines—the more ore they would handle at
present prices the bigger their loss would be. Of the
98,378 tons imported to the U.K. in the first half of 1900,
Spain supplied 41,867 tons, U.S. 18,560 tons, Australia,
30,207 tons; in the first half of this year Spain sent in
49,272 tons, U.S. 28,968, and Australia 30,964. It is just
possible that U.S. lead-producers can’t keep this going ;
the recent vague suggestion of an Eastern States lead-
combine looks like that.|
* » * *
Not less than a quarter of a million in solid cash
has been subscribed for N.S.W. dredging propositions
within the past four years— i.e., for dredges and working
expenses, and probably over £lOO,OOO more has been paid
for shares over and above capital value. Total returned
in divs. to date is £10,125 —£6000 from Araluen and £4125
from Jembaicumbene. These are the only places likely
to return further divs., and if they are credited with
£30,000 more, the ghastliness of the boom of three and
four years ago is made strikingly manifest. The average
value of the eight co.’s, shares of which are now market-
able, is only a trifle over 50 per cent, of the capital value—
. which doesn’t seem to indicate that the speculative public
regard these “as good industrial concerns,” or believe
that the industry “ never looked so hopeful.”
• * • *
“Jack” Pearce, manager of Mt. David, reports
that the mine is “ one of great possibilities, even prob-
abilities.” Mine has been working for five years, and the
prophecy that it now has “ great probabilities ” may be
some solace to people who were induced to pay big prices
for shares. Pearce is a capable manager, who deserves
control of a good mine, and for his sake writer hopes that
the probabilities about which he writes will soon become
realities.
• * * •
Some enthusiasts who are supposed to be inte-
rested in Payne’s process for leaching copper ores talk
glibly about floating a £500,000 co. to run the process in
N.S.W. only—the rights elsewhere are to be worth count-
less millions I Time enough to talk in this strain when
the process'has been proved successful and when patents
have been secured, for it. Paragraphs, evidently inspired,
appeared in some of the dailies, pronouncing the bulk
experiment on Girilambone ore a complete success. As a
matter of fact, the experiment was not half completed
when the statement was published. There has been
significant silence since the test was finished.
... *
Burbank’s Birthday Gift, Coolgardie (W.A.),
seems to have taken a new lease of life. The reef, which
was supposed to have completely petered out going south,
has again been located, after driving a short distance,
wider and richer than ever. Levels at 180, 250, 330 and
430 ft, are following it with marked success. Orushings
during last four months have averaged about 29000 z.
monthly from 25dwt. ore.
• * * •
Princess Royal, Norseman (W.A.), is opening
up splendidly at 200, 300 and 380 ft. levels, and is looking
better than at any previous time in its history. Last
yield of 21510 z. from 1709 tons is far the best on record,
and may be eclipsed in near future. Outlook for divs.
rosy.
• * * «
Childe Harold, Laverton (W.A.), like most of
the mines in that much-belauded district, is a very one-
horse proposition, and will never pay divs. unless worked
on a much larger scale. Yield of 805 oz. from 1831 tons
would read all right ff quantity were multiplied by ten,
but such a low average as 9dwts. needs wholesale handling
to give shareholders any hope of return.
• • •
Directors of Hannan’s Brown Hill (W. A.) boast
in their annual report of their low costs. Figures prove
the emptiness of their boast. During year, co. treated
20,700 tons for 51,9000 z., worth £192,500 ; net profit was
£106,500, making net costs £86,000, or £4 Is. lOd. a ton.
Cost of Diehl treatment is given as £1 4s. BJd., so that
mining totted up £2l7s. lfd. I Nothing written off for
depreciation, as plant was paid for by shares valued at
par. The mining expenses are excessive, and the Diehl
process costs exactly double what Ivanhoe’s battery treats
sulphide ore for. And this is what Oroya shareholders
have saddled themselves with.
• * • *
Great Boulder Proprietary (WA.), for some in-
scrutable reason, has almost suspended sinking during
the last three months, the figures reading nil, 2ft. and
34ft. respectively. Nansen’s shaft, which was to prove
the continuation of the Ivanhoe lodes to the north, seems
to have been abandoned as a vain hope. The main shaft
is close on 1600 ft., but apparently there is no keen desire
to get there. The Merton furnaces are now in course
of erection, but whether they are to aid or replace the
Edwards type is not quite clear. Latter alternative
seems more likely.
• • * *
, The finds recently reported in the Associated
(W.A.) at 800 and 1000 ft., though made the most of, have
proved an entire frost so far. They did their work, how-
ever, by temporarily hoisting scrip some 10s., and allow-
ing insiders to make a bit. Bullish rumors are still
circulating re these discoveries, but there is little founda-
tion for them. During July the co. treated 5020 tons for
45380 z., but it will take all proceeds to cover expenditure.
Great Fingall (W.A.) completed first full run
of 60-head mill for 12,0710 z. from 7538 tons treated. The
figures include tailings, but exclude contents of 3000 tons
of 6dwt. slimes still untreated. Daily duty per stamp
averaged 4 - 17 tons. Total value of gold, £40,894. Pro-
bable profit, £26,ooo—equivalent to 2s. per share monthlv,
or 15 per cent, per annum on shares at £B. Mine still
opening out well at lowest levels, and immediate future
fully assured.
* • * *
Ivanhoe (W.A.), continues to open satisfactorily
and shows little change. Part of new battery to replace
original 60 head has arrived, and will be substituted
gradually so as to disturb output as little as possible.
July return £45,600. Total costs £21,600. Net profit
£24,000. Cost of mining given at 14s. as against 12s. 9d.
for June, an advance of 10 per cent. This is squared by
less being expended on capital account.
* * * »
Paddington Consols (W. A.), after a stoppage of
over 18 months brought about by the London and Globe
smash, is again under weigh, but some weeks must elapse
ere all is got into working order. Developments are
rather backward, as the 40-head mill under Hartmann,
subsequently of L.V. Consols, was run to its utmost capa-
city regardless of the future. Mine is a 12dwt. proposi-
tion, but the lode is big and easily worked.
* * • •
Ex-Mayor Tom Doyle, of Kanowna (W.A.),
has had a further clean-up from his sensationally rich
leader ; result, 2680 z. from 10 tons. This brings up total
to date to 13280 z. from 32 tons. The leader continues to
develop well, and the genial Tom looks in a fair way to
realising a handsome fortune from it.
* • • *
Despite all efforts to enhance the grade of ore
the returns from the Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) only just
manage to top the 12dwt. average. Manager Loring has
reduced costs to a minimum, and, were lode to be de-
pended on, divs. might come. The great shortening of
the chute at No. 6,7, and 8 levels is the breaker ahead
which may wreck the show.
« * • *
The Kalgurli (W.A.) treatment plant is now
I Un olo? s P' en( Jidly, and, during July, treated 3530 tons
for 36340 z., valued at £14,150. Total costs are given as
£7402, leaving a net profit of £6748. The mine is well
opened, but, unfortunately, is so patchy that no reliance
can be placed on anything ahead of the pick. In such a
mine reserves must be well maintained to ensure steady
returns. This is the weak point of the published figures
as only 2s. Id. per ton was expended on development, as
against Bs. lid. by the Ivanhoe ; and the latter is a very
much more consistent mine. 1
* * * •
Boulder Perse veranoe (W.A.) continues on the
even tenor of its way without anything leaking out as to
the actual result of developments. It looks, however, as
if the Perseverance will gradually overhaul the Great
Boulder in deep-sinking as it did in output, as the
management seems more energetic. The returns con-
tinue with clockwork regularity, that for Julv reading
16,0180 z. from 12 325 tons, /o statement of costs £
&J v « n > but the 'Profit!must be about £35,000, or at the rate
of 240 per cent, on the nominal capital.
New Golden Gate (Taa.) has crushed 1540 tons
for 1007 oz. (including cyanide), value, £3BOO ; mine’s out-
put for six months, £24,811. Total divs, paid to date
equal £lO per share, or £320,000 on a called-up capital of
6?. 3d. per share. Average all through stands at 18dwt.
16gr. per ton, and £697,207 is total output. Manager
Andrews reports that the mine never looked better, “ the
east reef, which was considered non-productive, now
shows thousands of tons of div.-paying stone.” Cyanide
plant has won gold to the value of £39,947.
* » * *
The Ringarooma race is delivering to Briseia
mine 810,000 gallons of water daily. Race cost £62,000.
During July 46,960 cubic yards of overburden were
removed and 33 tons 13cwt. of tin ore recovered. A big
output shortly is “ confidently anticipated.”
* * * *
After years of battling with water and drift, the
Prentice and Southern Co. (Rutherglen, Vic.) appears to
be nearing the producing stage. Boring has proved the
lead payable for a width of over 300 ft. The water diffi-
culty has been mastered, the pressure on the bore pipes
having been reduced lllbs. in a fortnight, now registering
only 41bs. per sq. in. This co.’s property extends to the
Vic. Murray boundary, and should its operations be
attended with the anticipated success, it is not unlikely
that steps will be taken to work the leads on the N.S.W.
side. That will be a mammoth undertaking, which will
cost certainly not less than £160,000 before puddlers can
be got to work.


DAVID JONES and COMPANY
The
‘Orient’
800 t...
Black Yici Kid,
Round or Narrow Toesi,
28/6
• • • • •'•
George and Barrack
Sts., SYDNEY.
CEREBOS
TABLE SALT
Makes all the Food
more strengthening.
From Grocers and Stores.
Wholesale Agents .'—Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
Society
Specal Ligu[?]
"P&O"
Scotin WNSKY
[?]
OLASO[?]
Re the Quiraing. Does the N.S.W. Govt,
intend to appoint a Special Commission of
Inquiry ? Not unless it is forced —of that Parlia-
ment may be certain. There was a very marked
desire from the first not to make any fuss about the
matter. On July 10th, when Mr. Nobbs (for Mr.
Oakes) asked a question in the Assembly, he was
informed that the Quiraing had a registered ton-
nage of 653 tons, and she carried 814 tons of coal.
To quote question and answer literally from the
official paper:—
Q. How many tons of coal had she on board when
leaving Newcastle ?
A. 814 tons of coal.
But on Aug. 18 (when, by the way, the true facts
had been published in one of the Sydney news-
papers) there was this question and answer in the
Assembly:—
Q. What was the amount of coal carried as cargo ; also
the amount carried in the bunkers ?
A. The amount of coal carried was:—Cargo, 438 tons
East Greta best, 384 tons East Greta small ; bunker,
148 tons Co-operative small, 165 tons Rhondda. Total
Cargo, 822 tons ; total bunker, 317 tons. Total, 1139 tons.
The first question (J uly 10) was precise enough—
“how many tons were on board” — but the answer
was incorrect by over 300 tons, and the true facts
(registered tonnage, 653 tons; coal cargo, 1139
tons) had to be dragged out, so to speak. No, the
N.S.W. Government is not exactly
hankering after a full Quiraing
inquiry. - -
A HARD WORKER .
“And, to look at her, would you believe that the
works like a horse? "
“Urn! Ah, yaas?—well, p’waps-like a clothes,
horse, eh?”
Despite all the evidence as to the un-
pleasant habits of the men on the Drayton
Grange, and the want of discipline, also the com-
plete adherence to the Admiralty regulations,
there remains ever the damning fact —admitted
by the ship’s captain, and practically by the
transport officers—that the responsible Imperial
authorities sent to sea some 2000 men in a vessel
which had boats and life-saving appliances for
only 1000. That is to say, they deliberately sent
1000 “ defenders of the Empire ” on a long
voyage, knowing well that, in the event of a
disaster, they would have had to stand to attention
and go down with the ship. And who knows
how many were lost overboard ? When an
alarm was raised one night that a man had
rolled overboard from the roofs of the horse-boxes,
and the only muster during the voyage took place,
the roll showed one man extra. Yet a man with
a good war record—Trooper Wilson, of the Duke
of Edinburgh’s Rifles and the A.C.H. —writes to
Melb. Age stating positively that there were 473
stowaways on board when the ship left Durban ;
and the captain said he had to supply five extra
messes for men of whom he had no account, and
for whom he got no pay. Where are all these
men ?
* • • *
A particularly shabby trick was tried on,
in connection with the deaths of the victims of the
Drayton Grange scandal. In the cases where the
deceased troopers were from other States, claims
from alleged relatives were put in for their per-
sonal effects. In one instance the authorities
had almost handed over the articles, when by the
merest chance the “grief-stricken mother” was
proved to be a fraud. As the name of the dead
man was a common one, the would-be swindler
was given the benefit of the doubt. But as the
trick was tried more than once, the officials re-
gretted their clemency afterwards.
• * • •
So far as the stories of the various parties
go, George Savey, the alleged Frenchman or
Spaniard, who hangs disreputably on the out-
skirts of the Dandenong (Vic.) tragedy, is the only
one, bar the lawyers, who makes a dividend out
of it. Old man Sangal is dead. His widow,
Selina, and her alleged accomplice, Tisler, are in
prison, awaiting trial. But Savey says that he
was brought down from Melbourne by Tisler with
the promise of a job, that he was lavishly shouted
for by Tisler, and that a revolver was then given
him, and he was told that the job was the shoot-
ing of old man Sangal—cash on delivery of corpse.
And Savey, by his own statement, promptly fled
back to Melbourne and sold the “ gun ” of a trust-
ing fellow-creature, and kept the half-crown.
Then he added insult to larceny as a bailee by
telling his story to the police. On the stage
the old style of bravo still survives—gentlemen
shot at their own residences, promptness and
secrecy guaranteed, orders for the removal of
relatives attended to punctually and without need-
less splash on the carpet, families and schools
extirpated at reduced rates, and so on. But in
real life it seems that someone sidles up to a
wharf-laborer and fills him with beer, and then
puts a revolver into his unsteady hand, and he
straightway runs for his life and sells the weapon
at a great reduction.
- • * * *
One of the brightest and most pleasing
features of the Dandenong tragedy is contained in
Russian-Finn Tisler’s confession. In the most
casual way, Tisler remarks : “I hit him on the
head and then I finished him.” For directness
and simplicity this almost equals the Biblical
“And he slew him.” Tisler describes, in a
matter-of-fact way, how Mrs. Sangal cleared up
the blood from her husband ; and adds: “1
wanted to go away, but she would not let me ; so
I stayed on till about six o’clock.” The picture of
it : The woman and her paramour breathing love
to each other with the corpse of the dead husband
n the floor!
• * • *'
The Victorian Chief Justice has decided
that an ex-convict is not barred by the Statute of
Limitations from bringing an action against a
gaol-surgeon for alleged unskilful treatment while
he was in prison. This seems consistent with
good sense and Equity. But N.S.W. Supreme
Court, a couple of years ago, ruled that an ex-
prisoner had no action against the State when,
through the negligence of the Govt., he lost an
eye by a boiler accident whilst in Trial Bay
prison.
* * * *
A sight to make unregenerate Gentiles
weep tears of blood was that of 28 stout, long-
nosed gents, who attended at Melb. City Court
t’other week when a lad was charged with helping
himself to the jewellery-stock of his employers.
Every one of those 28 gents, arose in turn to depose
that he was a pawnbroker, and had, in the good-
ness of his heart, “ lent ” said lad various sums on
different articles, which he (the lad) had deceived
them into accepting as cycling trophies won by
the sweat of his brow. The bench was so over-
come at this story of betrayed innocence that it
gave the prisoner six months hard, and authorised
the robbed firm to recover its goods from the 28
noses by paying half-price on the tickets.
* • * *
A recent flagrant Victorian money-lending
case once more emphasises the necessity of abolish-
ing the honorary-justice system. No mere J.P.
should ever be allowed to adjudicate (especially in
trading cases) where a police magistrate is pro-
curable. When present writer first attended
Melbourne police-courts as a small boy reporter
he was astonished at the ever-recurring evidences
of magisterial, lodge and trading-guild corruption;
and the stink has cried aloud for disinfection ever
since.
* • • •
Heresy-sniffers discover that an Ave Maria
song formed part of the service at a Melb. subur-
ban Presbyterian church on a recent Sabbath
night.
* * • •
An alleged “great reduction” in the fare to
Flemington racecourse brings it down to 2s. for a
first-class return. This is 100 per cent, more than
is demanded of visitors to the adjacent Vic. Agri-
cultural Show, who are themselves overcharged.
In short, the race-going sinner is not to be fairly
treated by comparison with other excursionists of
a more holy type—he is merely going to be less
plundered than formerly. The railway depart-
ment, like the excise department, regards the
sinner as a fair mark for special taxation. Ihe
sinner suffers that the saint may be able to
point the finger of scorn at his extravagance.
Chadband snuffles complacently whilst England
drinks itself out of debt ” and smokes a surplus
for Revenue. If everybody swore-off intoxicating
liquor and joined the Anti ; Tobacco League,
whereof Chadband is an oily pillar, the Revenue
would probably have to levy a poll-tax on followers
of the Terewth. But as long as the bad man con-
tinues to smoke, drink and try his luck at
Fleming ton he must pay the Revenue for the
privilege of losing his soul, and the saint
will continue to feel the worldly benefit of him.
Why, then, cannot Chadband and Ebenezer look
kindly on the d—d one the little time they are
with him here below ? They won’t have to endure
his presence hereafter.
The A.J.C. has instituted a new method
of issuing ladies’ tickets to members. In
future books are to be given instead of the ordinary
cardboard pass, and a ticket torn out (and collected
at the entrance-gates) when required. Ttyisshould
effectually block the misuse of tickets (the A.J.C.
being troubled by the fact that more tickets are
presented by ladies than are issued). The new sys-
tem should also prove useful to those members who,
having lent their tickets, find difficulty in getting
them back from their friends without verging on
the rude. There is, however, the objection that
“ undesirables ” will more easily obtain possession
of a casual ticket, when, perhaps, a giddily-
inclined member would not allow his own particu-
lar tickets to be used. This point is always a sore
one with Randwick grandstand goers.
A kitchen trag-
edy :
The cook at :
our boarding-
house had been
“ ren de r i ng-
down” and trea-
suring up kit-
chen fat for
months, till a big oil-
drum was filled. She
enthused over that fat,
not only for its intrin-
sic value, but for the
fat’s own sweet sake.
It seemed like some-
thing she had tenderly,
affectionately nurtured
and reared up. One
day there called at the
back a dripping-mer-
chant who, after in-
specting the drumful,
with the air of a con-
noisseur, and gouging a
critical finger into the
goods, bargained with
the proud producer to
pay 12s. for the lot
“ D’yer mind holdin’ me
coat a minute, lydy?”
and he confidingly put
it across her arm.
Then, getting under
the merchandise, he
carried it shoulder-high
from out the gate. The
coat still hangs in the
cook’s room. She won’t
throw it into the dirt-
box, harboring, per-
haps, the insane hope
of a bereaved one that
when the owner re-
turns from the Ant-
werp market he will
redeem it.
“A STUDENT OF
FASHION ”:
Young lady who objects to
the trailing skirt.
Divorce robs
marriage of half its terrors.
Be the squabble over an asylum doctor
who is alleged to have broken down in
mind and nerve. It would be a fair thing, in
view of the allegations frequently made against
medical men at asylums, to institute periodical
examinations as to their own mental soundness
and fitness for these positions. The majority of
asylum doctors seem, after a few years of constant
contact with lunatics, to get some germ gnawing
at their own brains. One has only to compare
them with ordinary sane persons to note their
strange manner and optical expression—the same
expression that frequently characterises the out-
and-out lunatic. Drug-taking is alleged in the
present instance, and there are probably few
asylum medicoes free of that habit. For that
matter, their colleagues outside notoriously owe
their downfall in many cases to the same insidious
habit.
* * • *
Adelaide Supreme Court Bench has now
set up quite a rule to prevent the publication of
evidence in important cases, and the result is that
hearings in camera are becoming very common.
The anomaly is that, whereas the newspapers are
prevented from publishing the evidence, the
general public are not excluded from the galleries.
PROPHETIC.
THE FORGER (who has just got seven years ): “ Ah,
now I remember the last words of Cecil
Rhodes: ‘So little done—so much to do!’ ”
The lamentable Coronation Dinner to the
Poor of Melbourne— i.e., 500 of them—duly came
off, and its promoter, L. L. Lewis, got the advt.
for which his soul had hungered. The advt. was
mostly pictorial, though there was also a news-
paper paragraph recording the enthusiasm with
which the feeders drank the only two toasts —the
health of the King and the Queen, and the health
of Mr. and Mrs. L. L. Lewis. The pictorial part
of the ad. was supplied by Melbourne Leader in
two photos, of the poor as they appeared at table.
Each picture showed L. L. Lewis standing erect
between two lines of seated figures with his
philanthropic gaze towards the camera. In the
one he stands empty-handed, but in the other
picture he is seen bearing a vegetable-dish. Those
newspaper paragraphs show a simply disgusting
lack of newspaper decency. Many of the Corona-
tion diners, it is true, positively enjoyed the
chance to be made a charitable show of, and their
faces were turned to the photographer; but others
hid their heads in shame to escape the parade of
their faces with the brand of pauper on them in a
public print. Why couldn’t the Leader have
contented itself with photographing Mr. Lewis,
the soup, the meat, and other insensate things ?
• * * •
From Herald report of the Sydney street
collection for Mt. Kembla:—
The boxes used in the taking up of the collection were
lent by Mr. Ardill, of the Sydney Rescue Work Society.
It makes one smile ! Mr. Ardill, who runs a
wholesale charity business, with numerous
branches, is evidently a man of forethought, since
he keeps an up-to-date begging-plant always on
hand.
* * *' ' 9
It is somewhat disconcerting to find the
head of the police system of N.S.W. volunteering
a statement against banana-selling and other
similar outrages on Sunday to a Sunday news-
paper, which, so far as Sunday law is concerned,
is the worst Sabbath-breaker of the lot. If the
Sunday newspaper is for sale, everything should
be for sale on Sunday.
* • • .
“ Sprat ” on a social question :
After 12 years of personal observation, I conclude that
female teachers escape the altar oftener than female fol-
lowers of any other trade or profession. I can tally over
SO lady teachers in the vicinity of 40 years—and unwed,
ihe proportion of girl pupil teachers and young assist-
ants of average type of looks, and personal attractiveness,
compares about equally with outside the ranks. The
allurements of the over-30 crowd are generally ininmsrc.
Either from her own choice or Mister Hobson’s, Miss Roll-
call keeps at teaching the nippers instead of rearing them.
A hundred scribes will rush at me to remark that!
generalise on the dregs, and ignore those who drop from
the ranks. I dispute the point. Defections from the
school-room to the bridal veil are markedly fewer than
from any other individual source. Men endure the et.ain
of the school-room without physical penalty beyond
ordinary wear and tear, and they marry. Women seldom
survive, say, ten years’ school-teaching without seriout
Physical deterioration.
• « •
Writes '‘Veteran” :
Gen. Hutton has invented a fine new game for his
officers. He is going to send them out for “staff-rides
in the spring and autumn ” (why other seasons are barred
is not stated, unless it is feared that they will get wet or
sunburnt). No doubt it will be great fun, especially as
each “ ride” is to last three or four days—a picnic at
public expense. The troops required for instruction
during these “ staff-rides ” will be represented “ by a few
mounted and dismounted men from the permanent
troops.” A few ! Yet a regiment, according to the new
drill-book, will form a line half a mile long, a brigade a
line a mile and a half or two miles. Every one of these
“ staff-rides” would cost, on the most moderate computa-
tion, £lOOO. No wonder Defence Minister Lyne is in-
dignant and wants to know who has authorised such a
preposterous scheme. Perhaps the funniest thing about
the affair is that Gen. Finn of N.S.W. told Sydney D.T.
that it would “ teach the officers to write orders.” Any
fool who can write two consecutive sentences of under-
standable English can “write orders "if he knows what
to put into them.
LOSS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She gave the day its heart of fire,
She gave the night her soul of flame ;
The sun and moon, translated through
Her love, as gods became.
She filled me with unearthly strength,
A power not of my own was mine:
She passed, and crumbled into dust
And ashes, my divine.
The Night knows not how fair she is,
Before the stars come in the sky :
It is the light within ourselves
We see ourselves and others hy.
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.


Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address. —
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-street
or King street, Sydney.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
**Ois is wot
Igrov/d oh Arv,
Mills
MARK
TRADE
m
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Australia's
Leading Tonic
Beverage.
Arguments pro and con an organised
Disaster Fund are almost equally strong. Un-
doubtedly a fixed fund would, in a measure, dry
up the springs of charity which flow now at the
call of any great disaster. On the other hand, it
would relieve distress in those cases where Death
kills in a retail fashion and attracts no wide-
spread sympathy for his victims. Probably, on
tne whole, it would be best to establish a fixed
fund, to supplement the State fund in cases of
mining-accidents, to give full relief in other cases.
Then, when a big disaster came, it could be used
as an occasion for appeals to replenish the fund.
That the State fund is not nearly sufficient to
relieve destitution by mining accidents can be
shown by a concrete instance : under its rules a
Kembla widow with four young children would
get just 18s. a week.
SHERLOCK HOLMES & CO.
PATSY: “Be cripes, Bull, keep yer eyes open, it’s
two hun'red shinin’ Jim apiece if we cops ’em!”
Two matters which help to bring about
the “ gratifying decrease in crime” of which so
much is heard—crime being measured wholly by
the number of convictions and the number of
persons in gaol—are the failure to capture the two
men who murdered policeman Guilfoyle, at
Redfem, Sydney, and the fact that the individual
who robbed and nearly killed Mandarin Quong
Tart in his own office at Sydney markets has got
away—or appears to have done so. It is no special
reflection on the police that these things are so.
A policeman is a person who is expected to have
enormous strength, considerable speed, unflinching
courage, the detective instinct highly developed,
intelligence, and the capacity to look after 39
miles of streets, alleys and lanes simultaneously,
all for a little over £2 a week. Also he is expected
to make up electoral rolls and do casual work in
between times; and if he is battered in “the
execution of his jooty” till he is a permanent
cripple he can’t even rely on a pension, because
the Police Fund is broke. The police created that
fund mostly by their own contributions, and
various N.S.W. Governments embezzled it by
paying out of it rewards for special services (i.e.
the Government would grant the reward and make
the police pay it). But i£ is a long bobby that has
no turning, and the Sydney force has turned on
Magistrate Isaacs. That dreary dweller on the
bench, when he heard of the outrage on Mandarin
Tart, got off some brilliant remarks about the un-
safe condition of Sydney streets, and the force
indignantly replied that the streets would be
much safer if Isaacs didn’t turn loose, with a 10s.
fine, offenders who had just fallen a little short of
murder, and thus teach them that they could
commit crime almost with impunity,
• • • •
N.S.W. Attorney-General has decided not
to put anyone on trial in connection with the
killing of Joseph Heaps at Ginninderra, where a
mixed party of police and civilians (every member
of which seemed to have had the jumps badly)
shot down-an inoffensive man at his camp-fire on
suspicion that he was a murderer. Possibly a jury
would not have convicted for manslaughter under
the circumstances, but the community’s interests
would have been served if, by a public trial, it was
impressed on people that it is not the correct
thing to take a pot-shot at any man whom a
bucolic policeman chooses to suspect of murder.
At present there is almost as much promiscuous
shooting in N.S.W. as in a Californian diggers’
camp, and criminals, even in a small retail line of
business, are encouraged to carry firearms, and to
use them in case of interference, by the fact that
the police are armed, and use their arms on the
slightest provocation. In every lawless transac-
tion nowadays, from petty larceny to passing bad
coin, the criminal has to reckon the possibility
of having to face firearms, so he carries his
“squirt,” and aspires always to get his shot in
first. A country with so small a population as
N.S.W. can’t really afford to arm its police with
revolvers.
• * * •
Theodore Fink has just got through Vic.
Assembly a Bill to give the reciprocal right of
admission to lawyers from other States to prac-
tise locally. The Bill is not so much intended to
open the way for a Federal legal system as to give
workless Vic. practitioners a chance to escape
from that land of legal drought. The times for
lawyers have never been so bad in other States as
in Vic. It was noticeable that Fink’s Bill was
supported by nearly every solicitor or amalgam in
the Assembly and opposed by all the barristers,
including Irvine. The reason is that it clears the
way for top-notch barristers like Symon, Reid,
and O’Connor to open up work in Melb. while the
Federal Parliament sits there. With solicitors in
Federal politics, of whom there are but one or
two, anyhow, the case is different. Their interests
in other capitals are in the form of permanent and
built-up businesses, and cannot be abandoned,
whereas the counsel just takes cases as they come,
and knows nob to-day what to-morrow will bring
forth.
Little Adelaide, which is remarkably rich
in philanthropic institutions for the benefit of
the blind and deaf and dumb, now begins the
surely risky experiment of teaching its blind girls
to cook. The idea started this way : A pair in
the industrial blind school married—against the
advice of the officials, who thought that at least
one in every partnership should see. To prove
how well they got on, the couple invited the presi-
dent to dinner, and he, who knew a good deal of
what the blind can do, was astonished at the wife’s
cooking and the husband’s carving. The manager
of this industrial school, by the way, who knows
the business part of Adelaide as few men do, is
himself stone-blind.
m • m *
In the August number of the Golden
Fleece (Sydney) “Helen Jerome” writes to ask
“ why should the franchise be thrust upon
an unwilling majority of women?” . . .
That should be easily answered. None
of the Bills that have been introduced to
give woman the vote for Parliament have
contained any compulsory-voting clauses,
and, therefore, there is no attempt to
thrust the franchise on any lady who
doesn’t want it. “The young wife and
mother, with a baby in her arms ” will
not be dragged by mounted police to
scramble “at the booth with a crowd of
wildeyed, unsexed, immodest harridans ”
—the Golden Fleece lady evidently has
a delusion that the rush at a polling booth
is like that at a drapery cheap sale —
which it isn’t. There is no rush, and
everything is calm, not to say peace-
fully indifferent. And if there is here and
there a hysterical lady who can’t go to
vote without carrying her baby head-
downwards by one leg while she
scratches John Norton’s name off the
ballot paper, that is no reason why a
calmer female should be deprived of the
chance to scratch John’s name off the
decisive slip. If only one woman in Aus-
tralia wished to scratch John Norton’s
name off the slip, and all the rest simply
detested the idea of scratching any name
at all off a slip, that woman has every
moral right to scratch.
* * * *
Defiant inscription from a Hobart
grave-stone: —
Here lies
Who died Jan. 19,1810. Aged 42.
Farewell, bad world 1
Enough I’ve had of thee ;
Careless I am
What you can say of me.
What you can see amiss in me
Take care to shun ;
Look at home,
There is enough to be done !
Deceased was a woman. The inevitable “last
word.”
* * • •
Bard of Works Fitz Gibbon, C.M.G., Vic.,
takes much credit to himself as grand champion
of the popular rights in connection with public
parks and gardens, and his claim to affection and
respect in this particular has been freely ad-
mitted by The Bulletin
more than once. Fitz is
now out and about again,
raising his whistling
treble over various at-
tempts to grab public re-
serves for Fatman’s uses.
And yet this son of a
Gibbon is always ready
to jump a prominent lot
in any city “lung” to
build a monument to the
Fat of the land, or to
litter it with rocks in
honor of St. Jingo, or to
the glory of any inconse-
quential plutocrat who
may happen to have de-
parted this life. Fitz-
Gibbon is largely respon-
sible for the fact that the
late Baronet Clarke’s
final bust blocks the en-
trance to Treasury Gar-
dens.
Melb. Women’s Hospital committee elec-
tion resulted in a rout of the old brigade, whose
nominees were one and all defeated. The reform
party wisely decided upon a “ticket,” and those
who desired to see the institution run on humane
lines sank all individual feelings and voted it.
The rejected ladies include Colonel Goldstein (for
long the stumbling-block of all who advocated
reform), Mrs. Shields (the hon. sec., whose hus-
band filled the place of the dismissed doctors pend-
ing the appointment of Dr. Martell), and Mrs. Ste-
phen (the mother-in-law of Chief Justice Madden).
Another thrown out was Mrs. David Syme. She
had taken no prominent par t in the recent squabbles,
but the new party adjudged her, rightly or wrongly,
to be responsible for the pro-cat proclivities of the
Age, so she went out too. The last ex-member
rejected was Lady Hutton, wife of the Federal
Commandant, who was appointed but a couple of
months back. Lady Hutton was entirely innocent
of the troubles of the institution, but she was
nominated by the cat-party shortly, after her
arrival, obviously for her social position, for she
could not possibly have had any knowledge of the
institution or its needs. The result of the election
is most gratifying. But the work is only half
done. The subscribers should remember to repeat
their tactics at next election, when the rest of the
committee come before them.
• • • *
An elderly co-respondent stepped jauntily
into the witness-box at Melb. divorce court,
t’other day, and proudly admitted having written
a confession of his sin in the words “I done
dultry.” Petitioner was 64, and the giddy lady,
who had surreptitiously made giggling appoint-
ments with the white-whiskered one, was but 10
years her husband’s junior. There seems to be a
boom in aged love-making of late. Only the other
day three people, whose united ages amounted to
over 180 years, got mixed up at Ballarat.
* * * *
A matrimonial advt. in Melb. Age (July
26) has a cheerful variant on the stereotyped
“ view to above ” formula :
p ENTLEMAN wishes to meet stylish young Lady ;
Lr views to be explained later on. H.Y.H., Age.
When the Melbourne municipali-
ties finally get possession of their tram-
way system —in about 14 years’ time—
that prospective revenue-producer will
probably turn out to be worth about
£lOO as scrap-iron and firewood. Already
there are several schemes being con-
sidered for electrical lines in the outer
suburbs as feeders to the railways, and
the motor-car promises to knock much
of the inner tram traffic on the head.
Lately, to show Essendon Council what
it could do, a motor, carrying nine pas-
sengers, ran from the city to Braybrook
and back in little over an hour, and,
despite the breakdown of one cylinder
on the way back, covered the miles
from Flemington Bridge to the G.P.O.
in 6min.—as against the tram’s 23min.
A motor co. promises a lOmin. service
of equal speed at Id. per passenger per
mile ; and as total cost of running such
a motor only amounts to 4 l-10d. per
mile (including wear and tear, wages,
repairs, management, and depreciation),
it looks as if the project would material-
ise. If co. wants a good advt. and the
blessings of the public, it might run a
fast and frequent service to Flemington
at Cup time (a 4d. fare should pay it),
and thereby knock a hole in the railway
profits during that momentous occasion,
and also tend to abolish the rascally
charge of 3s. and 2s. from city to course
and back.
* * * *
That recent Vic. case in which two
painters sued a former employer for
slander, claiming £99 damages, affords
further evidence of the handicap it is to
be a workman when you come before
some judges. Defendant publicly called
the men “thieves and rogues,” and in
the hearing of a constable; and then at
the trial—despite the overwhelming evi-
dence-denied using the words, but would
not go into the box. Judge Johnston
remarked sympathetically that “ defendant had
acted ‘foolishly,’ ‘immoderately’ and ‘intemper-
ately,’ ” but he was so manifestly guilty that a
verdict had to be recorded against him. S’onah,
however, concluded that the workmen’s claim for
£99 was “ monstrous,” and he awarded only £5.
* * * *
“ Kay lee ” : Oh why, why did the
penny-’bus burst upon our peaceful, slow-going
Adelaide and make us realise the iniquity of the
3d. fare? I get into a tram and pay 3d. “ Only
Id. to ,” says the boy. Next day, again enter
the car and offer Id ” ; “3d. now, sir.” “ Why ? ”
“ The ’busses have stopped running.” Couple of
days later offer 3d. “Only Id., sir.” Next day
have occasion to go further than usual. “Penny
all the way, sir.” Later, again go to terminus
and show my Id., but after a time boy comes
round a second time and explains that “the
company has started Id. sections.” Fare to
terminus yesterday, Id; to-day, 3d. Just accord-
ing to how Reid’s ’busses run or don’t run, car
fares rise and fall like the share market.
THE LAST STRAW.
“But I can always be a sister to you.”
"Heaven forbid I lam the only son in a family
of fourteen! ”
Melbourne Age, reporting a case at Oak-
leigh in which the police objected to an old age
pension:—
Sergeant Ryan said that as a citizen, and entirely apart
from his status as a policeman, he was sick and tired of
the old age pensions business. He had to contribute his
share towards supporting the parents of well-to-do men
and women, and he was amazed thata woman who ought to
support her mother should remain away from Court and
fee a solicitor.
The old age pension system has been abso-
lutely undermined in Vic. by the amendment
of the Act providing that well-to-do relatives
must contribute to the allowances of pensioners.
It is no longer a meed of justice but a grudging
charity under police censorship.
N.S.W. old age pension boards disqualify
for pension women who are married to non-
naturalised men, but are otherwise eligible. The
administration of the Act seems to be directed
towards limiting the pensions as far as possible.
* * • «
The lodger’s perquisites. A petitioner at
Melb. Divorce Court: “I went to where I heard
my wife was and found her. There was a man in
the house who was walking about the place as if it
belonged to him. He was half-dressed and strolled
in and out of my wife’s room calling her by her
Christian name. When I remonstrated with her,
she said 1 ‘lt is all right; he is the lodger.” Why,
of course !
• * * •
What shocking “ bloomers ” (from a
smoking-room point of view) women often do
make when they venture into print, simply
because of their comparative ignorance of male
argot. A lurid example of this occurred the other
week in a Sydney daily, and coarse man hasn’t
yet ceased laughing over it,
FOR SHAKESPERTAN SCHOLARS AND HAPPY
FATHERS ONLY.
“ Doomed for a certain term to walk the night.”
N.S.W. Crown Law officers were stuck up
lately. It all arose out of a sordid row in that back
part of Broken Hill where numerous empires
meet. The Syrian Ambassador, with the Chinese
Envoy’s assistance, sent a Note to the British
Representative asking him to pay his alleged
board-bill; and the Note, having been first dis-
respectfully used, was returned with some written
expressions of further contempt. What to charge
the filthy person with puzzled the police, who
finally abandoned their old friend “ riotous be-
haviour ” in favor of “sending an offensive packet
through the post.” When the man was committed
the Crown Law Office began to oscillate, and
finally it decided that the “exhibit” constituted
part of a criminal libel. The jury found him
guilty of that, but “ respectfully suggested ” that
it would be a very dirty piece of paper that would
show up conspicuously against the morals of the
neighborhood ; and his Honor agreed, and simply
ordered the libeller to pay a small fine.
* • •
Four men recently quarantined because of
an outbreak of smallpox on board the boat that
landed them in Sydney arose one morning, walked
o J the premises, took the boat from Manly, and
passed a few hours enjoying themselves in the
city. They would have stayed longer but for a
poiiceman. What is the use of quarantine unless
the authorities display better vigilance? And
what are penalties for breaking quarantine legal-
ised for, if breakers, as has often previously been
the case, are treated as if they played a mere
harmless joke ?
* * * *
The curious circumstance is noted by
writers on mental science that the “official insane
population” does not increase during war-time.
There was an actual decrease in the United King-
dom in 1900 and 1901 ; ditto in some at least of
the Australias. Same thing was noted dur-
ing the U.S. war of 1861-65, and in France
in 1870-71. The officials’ explanation is
that war gives the people something to
think about outside themselves. It probably
hasn’t occurred to them that at such times
scores of people, who at other times would be put
under lock and key, are permitted to roam free
because of the impossibility of distinguishing the
all-wool, Mafficking patriot from the lunatic of
the garden variety. * isTa


'S
sty
RAINCOATS.
“eEAVEMETTES”
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for i
- A SET OF TEETH ONE GUINEA ,
Beautiful and Lifelike in Appearance and Guaranteed Perfect Fit. Absolutely Painless
Extractions and Stoppings Guaranteed.
Special Attention Given to Regulating Children’s Teeth.
Mr. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R.D.S., Surgeon Dentist, 43 Oxford-st., Sydney.
/ “BE SURE IT’S \
' CHARLES'
lheidsieck;
| FACILE PRIIMCEPS.
| SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, August 26, 1902.
My Dear Arini.—
An English lady newly arrived in N.S.W. was
amongst the guests at the opening of the tram-line
to Lilyville, Minister Crick’s new model suburb,
and was much amused at the contrast between the
general free-and-easiness and the formal after-
dinner toasts and speeches. Luncheon in a
primitive bower was served in bush-hut style-
one knife between three guests, and thick cups for
drinking, &c. Yet the speechifying could not
have been of a more pretentious cumbersomeness
had the British Premier and all the European
sovereigns been present in force. Then the
eternal allusions to England and the Royal Family
struck English ears very curiously. “ You seem
unable to keep England out of your mouths,” said
the visitor; “we at home know nothing of Aus-
tralia and care less, but here your talk is more of
things British than of Australia. Never in all my
life in London did I hear so much of the Royal
Family as I have done since coming to Sydney.
Hardly an Englishman or an Englishwoman knows
the names of others than the King or the Prince
of Wales, but here* I am continually being pelted
with little slabs of information about Princess this
or Princess that. Curious, too, how you can’t
open a small plate of oysters without drinking the
health of the King, or close the same without the
Anthem. lam quite beginning to know the
Anthem since spending a month in Australia.”.
Coronation dinners at the rate of two a week
still go on (the table) at Sydney State Govt.
House. The Rawsons must surely be near the end
of the list of people whom duty to the Empiah
compels them to feed.
Public appearances of their Exes, last week
were all in aid of the Kembla Disaster Fund. One
musical enterprise which shared its receipts with
the Antilles Disaster Fund brought, in conse-
quence, almost the whole French colony to the
Town Hall—some of the women, dark and bright,
and sweet-looking, as if they had been fed on
chocolates and coffee. Cleveland-st. Boys’ Choir
nearly filled the programme, and quite filled the
hall with its wonderful volume of small boys’
voices. There were several hundred of the
oreatures that Carlyle says ought to be brought up
underground, but looking unutterably good and
well behaved. They surely never greased a door-
step or tied a can to a dog’s tail, and they make a
choir on whose account any conductor might sin
the sin of the angels. It is time Australian star
female voices were balanced by Australian male
ditto.
The youngster who was soloist in the “Spin-
ning Chorus” of the “Flying Dutchman,” is a
most harmonious knickerbocker, and promises
.melodiously. Signor Rossi drove a flock of man-
dolin maidens on to the stage, then master and
maids formed a group—a real photographic bonne
faces, pretty wrists, nice hair at
the bread-and-butter stage of dressing, lots of rib-
bon on the prows of the mandolins, which twinky-
twanked joyfully a “ Trovatore” selection.
Amy Castles, at Sydney Town Hall, had an
audience of over 4000 persons, and realised close
upon £3BO for the Disaster Fynd—after the exes
about £75, were deducted. The Cranbrook couple
escorted by Mayor Hughes and Mr. J. C. Wif-
liamson, were backed by the Huttons, Finns
divers consuls and their wives, and all Sydney
society. The soprano was in fine voice and a
lovely not-very-blue-blue gown ; and the clamour
of her welcome might be heard two streets away
Her singing of “Parigi O Cara ” with tenor New-
bury caused more applausive noise than all the
rest of the programme, unless, perhaps, the
tenor’s rendering of “Annie Laurie.” Breathes
there an audience with soul so dead which
wouldn’t respond with all its heart and hand and
feet to Newbury’s singing of that sweet song ?
. General Hutton gave the audience a treat dur-
ing the interval, by facing it while he talked to
Lady Rawson. (The poor General has had to
face the music so much lately that to face some-
thing else was probably a welcome change ) He
was not in uniform, but wore orders, and the star
on his breast was a treat. It blazed as Venus
does in the sky these nights. Silver and
tin and things make a wonderful shine when the
prisms catch the light. Lady Hutton, with the
Swedish eyes, fair complexion, and golden head
has such a tranquil expression that looking long
at her acts like a mild soporific. Most military
women with good-looking husbands have an
expression that speaks of a peck of troubles. But
after all, the General isn’t the Adonis that his
portraits make him.
“ Le shakehand ” among Parisians of good form
is to be superseded by the hand kiss. The French
gentleman no longer shakes a lady’s hand ; he
bows over it and kisses it. The wrist is the
kissing terminus (in public). None but a greatly
favored friend can venture on the wrist kiss (again
tn public). “As the friendship ripens the kiss
graduafly steals from the finger tips along the back
of the hand. Well, now, here’s our French Vice-
Consul s chance to introduceabeautifulcustom into
the jungle of Sydney society. If he could be
induced to give a platform demonstration I am
sure he would be overwhelmed by an ocean of
beautiful hands offered, “for this occasion only ”
on the altar of a more artistic style of life. ‘lt
takes a man with a Narcissus face, and a patent
silver hinge to his back, to bend gracefully to the
hand-kiss. All the men in the Count’s audience
no matter how squabby, Esau-like, and blanket-
clothed, would say, “ Yes, a man looks well doing
tnat; 111 start in on my own account.” But stay 1
Perhaps better not Begin at the finger-tips and
steal along the back of the hand ? A man, finding
himself on so pleasant a road, mightn’t be willing
to stop at the wrist. °
At a recent very big and pretentious ball: In a
cosy corner, underneath a bough, a glitter of
uniform, whether naval or military, no matter,
and the glimmer of a white frock. Each was
seated by the other Thou, and didn’t seem
to yearn for the Jug, the Loaf, or the Book.
l°ve you, darling!” (he was overheard),
do J° ve you so ! ” and there were dual sounds,
as of the snapping of violin strings. “ Not more
than I love you, dearest! ” she responded ; “ but
1 do hope your wife won’t come along.”
T ! 10 quality of Sydney’s mercy must be less
strained than we imagine these droughty times,
ine collection of over £lOOO in the city for the
ivembla fund by ladies, acting under the direction
°f .the Hospital Saturday Organisation, was a sur-
prise. Eight hundred girls and women “held
nP principal thoroughfares. Men proba-
bly forgot these collectors had the vote, for they
gave just as liberally as if the women were the
same meek, downtrodden creatures that they were
a few weeks ago.
of the women have been purring at
William Lyne and giving him an illuminated
and a locket, and for the first time in
iN.B.W. women heard themselves addressed as
Women Electors.” William said it was the
most bashful, moment in his political life. In a
minor State in America one of the leaders of a
suffrage league addressed a meeting thusly: “Miss
.President, Feller-women, and Male Trash
ginerally ” That’s a possibility of the future
here.
—Cards are out for a garden-party at State Govt.
House on Sept. 11.
. Miss Grace Townsend, the only woman’s name
m along list of well-plucked ones, won her bronze
medal and certificate (awarded at last Monday’s
Jubilee meeting of the Humane Society of N. S. W.)
for diving into a waterhole near Parkes and fetch-
ing from the bottom an 11-year-old girl, who was
drowning.
Mr. Norman Giblin, erstwhile manager of the
Bank of New Zealand in Sydney, who died
suddenly at Chatswood the other day, came of the
well-known Tas. family of that name, and had, of
late years, been an official assignee of N.S.W.
Bankruptcy Court. As his friends knew, the
latter position hardly suited him ; for his tempera-
ment was one best fitted to look on the kindly
side of things. He died very suddenly, of pa-
ralysis of the brain, and his remains were followed
to the grave by a host of genuine friends.
• a hysterical young female drowned herself
in Sydney Harbor, to fulfil the prophecy of a
fortune-teller, there has been a great outcry
against such humbugs, and a consequent great
increase in their trade. Anyone going to a
fortune-teller now is promised long life, “ freedom
from haccidents, hespecially by water,” and above
all, “ you’ll never die by yer hown ’and. ” All the
fortune-tellers whom I have interviewed, in order
to find the whereabouts of my stolen Gordon
setter, used their “ h’s ” despitefully. Not one of
them can come up to the fortune-teller that Saul
consulted at Endor, though one or two, from their
appearance, See., might be suspected of a “familiar
spirit ” —in one case it was palpably rum. By the
way, the Early. Closing Act doesn’t apply to the
sale of prophecies by witches and wizards; if it
does it is not enforced.
Mr. Goring Thomas will give a concert in Sydney
Y.M.C.A. Hall on Wednesday, September 3rd.
Several things of the musician-composer’s own
brewing may be sampled by the audience and a
girl violiniste from S’Africa will bow on the cat-
strings. . She . studied in Berlin under our own
Kruse, it is said, with gratifying success.
My Brisbane correspondent writes:—
“ The General Hospital is out of favor with the
people who wish to be considered ‘Society.’
Among other things urged against it, they say
that ‘no women will go there.’ Lady Lamington,
some while ago, founded a hospital for women
with £lo—the cheapest thing on record. This
hospital is a small house, quite unfit for the pur-
pose, and badly situated. At last annual meeting
the report stated ‘ seven women had died during
the year because they had no room for them.’
And the committee, though in funds, stated their
determination not to build at present.
“ Yet, it is an undisputed fact that there are
two large, well-ventilated women-wards in the
general hospital—one for the special diseases of
women, the very thing the Lamington Hospital
has been founded for. Why is that ward un-
occupied ? What is the committee of the hospital
about? What is the Inspector of Charities doing?
A ball in aid of the hospital’s funds recently was
a failure, and we are now going to have a display
of fireworks for the hospital. If it could but
throw some light on what has become a grave
scandal, it would indeed be a boon, both to the
general hospital and the Brisbane public.
“ This week the representatives of two of the
oldest Queensland families were united. The
bridegroom is the son of the late Arthur Palmer
the Parkes of this State; and the bride, Miss
Loma Barron, granddaughter of the late Regis-
trar-General Blakeney,
Writes my Melbourne correspondent
“There was an unusual flutter at the Dante
evening last Tuesday night, when several meri-
torious officials and random booky Bohemians
were drummed up to meet the Gov. Clarkes.
Max tsimon the hon. sec., with bumps of energy
forming undulations all over his bald head—rallied
the worshippers of Dante together. Even R S
bmythe, the untiring exploiter of talent, was there
with some Cecilias under his wing. The Clarkes
pere, itihre, et fille, smiled and smiled, and approved
every number, and commissioned Aide Browning
to clap for them, and beamed on the Max men-
tioned, and thanked him and the grey Italian
Oonsul for a pleasant evening—an instructive
evening, a highly interesting evening—and bowed
themselves from the company in the naicest
manner in the world. And the Dante Society, in
worshipping his condescending Excellency, forgot
to adore Dan te.
“The Naicest assembled in force at the first
Spring shivoo at the Sargoods’ last Thursday.
Music was provided and silence enjoined, and
wheneer a warbler took the floor, a death-like
stillness reigned. The hostess, clad in win .'-red,
with chenille full stops rounding off passages of
lace, stood at the ball-room entrance, as business-
like as a janitress, with a practical steel bag
depending from her belt. Keen eyes and spec-
tacles further denoted the absence of all Sassiety
airs and fluffiness. The daughter of the house
helped her cream turn-out to a garnishing of sky-
blue, and, rather prettily, echoed the remarks of
her shrewd and amiable parent. The Waxellency’s
two daughters stood afar off from the multitude,
and gave their shell-like ears to the sweet piping
of Walter Kirby and Cesca Vollugi. . Mrs.
Urquhart was the most-diamonded dame in the
gathering. The most dressy vision was a Sydneyite
(known to very few) whose bodice of a dark blue
silk ground bore rows and rows of flannel-flower
petals. The sleeves provided groundwork for
more petals, which curled up at the point quite
naturally and allowed glimpses of the under-silki-
ness. Senator Drake’s better half sailed about
the ball-room shedding her conversational pearls
discriminatingly on the (groups of the Naicest, &
la grande dame. Mrs. I. Isaacs made a departure
in thatch-building. Her style was Nell Gwynne’s;
a rope plait circled her head, leaving a forehead
margin for a clump of soft Willy-nilly tendrils.
“ A, to me, regrettable thing about the Women’s
Hospital Catmittee elections was the vetoing of
Lady Hutton as a member. In the whole of the
State, there isn’t a pleasanter, more amiable, or
more harmless personage than the boss fighting
man’s wife. No ‘side,’ no aggressiveness about
that very charming person. Besides she is bright,
sunny-haired, and highly ornamental. Alas, she
had to suffer for the sins of her sponsors. Col.
Goldstein—that well-meaning tom catmitteeite—
won’t, however, be missed. His intentions were
good, bub ——. The time he saves from the
weekly hospital meetings he can more profitably
spend cultivating his prize dahlias at the Leon-
gatha Labor Colony. By the way, the Colonel is
the parent of suffragist Vida Goldstein, whose
views he opposes strenuously. There was an
occasion wien father and daughter headed rival
crusades, and laughingly, and in the best of humor
with each other, fought their rival causes.
“Miss Storey, of Melb., who wants to estab-
lish a school of domestic economy for the purpose
of giving young girls the instruction necessary to
make them good wives, is getting herself recog-
nised. Minister Reid favors the idea, and has
promised to ‘look into it.’ If the school will
provide the other things necessary to the making
of good wives—the husbands —it will be a tre-
mendous success, but that important point must
not be overlooked. The institution will give cer-
tificates to trained girls, and it is taken for granted
that bachelors wanting wives will ask for
those with Miss Storey’s trade-mark, and will see
that they get them. If men married women
because they thought they would make good
wives the theory would be all right, but they don’t;
in nine cases out of 10 they marry and chance it.
And women are not particularly anxious to make
good wives; they prefer devoting their energies to
the task of making good husbands.
“At Prahran Town-hall, the place where the
Amateur Runaway Girls frivolled their brief three
nights upon the stage, a concert will be given next
Wednesday (3rd) in aid of a Church of England
choristers’ fund, or something in that semi-reli-
gious . way. The Caledonian choir is to sing;
likewise several soloists whose names have a
tartan and haggis sound, and a novelty is
threatened in the form of a junior quartet,
coached by Miss Gladys Ure. The task of creat-
) n £> a junior quartet party has never commended
itself to the men who know most about chorister
boys, but the fair Gladys reckons that a girl-
teacher is quite another matter. It is all done by
patience and—smiles. You put your four future
men in a row and make slaves of them.
“The ‘King Charles spaniel’craze is catching
on m this capital. Modish women, who think
the begetting of children a barbarous relic of
savage ages, are cutting fine figures, at the present
hour, coddling canine brutes for the edification of
their friends. Formerly, a hostess posed her
fairest babe afc her confidential ‘ at-homes. * Now-
adays, the smart women cushion their spaniels,
and give them biscuits to chew, while their friends
admire mistress and poodle. Quite a score of
fashionable women in Melbourne lavish excessive
care on the spaniels that they have introduced
into their doggeries since the Nell Gwynne boom
—King Charles spaniels if they can get them
monstrous little wretches who, by in-breeding’
have lost most of their noses, and whose tears
consequently corrode their cheeks, deprived of
the proper outflow—a good symbol, maybe, of
perverted femininism.
“ The honeymoon used to be a matter of spoon-
ing—and dolce far niente : nowadays it must have
some more solid amusement. Last week a newly-
wed couple (very smart and very popular) bore off
their golfing kits to Sydney with the intention of
playing out the honeymoon at the Bondi links. In
other ways honeymooners change. A wedding
nowadays is more of a practical business ceremony
and less of a long-drawn-out gush,(at which brides
tremble and mothers weep. Recentlv a prosaic
bridal pair, finding a half-hour to spare between
the tying and the train, took a promenade down
Collms-street, and bought some boxes of sweets
by way of killing time. There are no Paolos and
i rancescas among our modern lovers. The
hymeneal sacrifice is becoming as brief and as
business-like as the operations of a Chicago
canning factory.
“ Miss . ‘ Stonington ’ Clarke caused a stir in
musical circles when she elected to sing at a bene-
fiting tenor’s concert. But when the time came
for the programme-printing, the Guv’nor’s daugh-
ter regretfully retracted her promise, on the
ground that she was under Marchesi’s orders not
to warble—that is, publicly—till her vocal educa-
tion is completed. The Weidermann element pre-
vails at the Malvern mansion at present.
“A gifted Orpheus, warbling before a petticoat
society the other day, was so carried away by the
success of a new song he was rendering, and the
wild enthusiasm of the audience, that he skipped
over to the lady who accompanied and planted a
chaste kiss on each cheek, to her horror and the
mingled surprise and. enjoyment of the women
looking on. The piamste wasn’t in any way
‘willin’,’ and, ’tis said, administered a severe
rebuke to the emotional warbler. He pleaded
‘ temperament ’ as his excuse.
“ Madame Yeamans-Titus was born casually at
sea between Sydney and Melbourne. One of the
most brilliant girl violinistes in the Marshall-Hall
Conservatorium tells a startling story of her birth
at sea. It happened prematurely, on a raft after
a shipwreck.. The mother and the newly-arrived
salt-washed infant were picked up by a Norwegian
barque, and coaxed on to health and strength by
a course of very rough fare. The promising
young musician revels in a fine complexion and
abounding avoirdupois ; so that salt-water ohrist-
ening and rough baby diet had no bad results.
“ A son of Mars recently returned from Africa
with a bit of extra gold-braid to his honor, and no
bones broken. He had been in three hot engage-
ments and came back safe and sound. By way of
celebrating his immunity from breaks and bruises,
he gave his Melb. men-friends a very fine dinner
at a swagger hotel. The spirits of the guests rose
with each course. In the end there was some
horse play, some table-lifting, glass-breaking, and
a sort of Follow-the-Man-from-Cook’s steeplechase
which resulted disastrously for the host. He
caught his leg a blow from one of the hurdles, and
was laid low with a broken limb. And the hero
is at last in splints.
“ The fat funny man of a certain show expresses
his astonishment sub rosa, at the tolerance of Aus-
tralian audiences. Nowhere else within the
range of J. Bull’s Bible, says he, is such latitude
allowed mummers. The by-play among them
during the progress of a show, and the wireless
telegraphy between the chorus-girls and the front-
row Johnnies make this fat wag scant of breath
with astonishment. He thinks it shocking, and
will have none of it when he is under way with
his drolleries. But the girls wink the other eye,
give him impudence, and turn their smiles on
some other fellow who wants them. Too much
latitude on the boards certainly is permitted in
this _ particular co. Much energy goes out in
specific smiles and signals to the spacious shirt-
fronts in the stalls. To that part of tne house men
should be charged double rates of admission.
“ Dress-making will shortly be the simplest and
most expeditious thing in the world. Spring
novelties include extensive dress decorations,
whole panels of applique, lengths of tucking,
bodice strips and whole costume designs in lace
and chiffon, so that the parts have simply to be
joined, and you have the stunning altogether.
Veils, by latest advices, are to reach the tip
of the nose only. This is a cruel freak for the
not-so-young. A woman ages most quickly about
the neck and lower part of the face, and the long
enveloping veil had its excellent uses. But now
only the youthful and fresh-complexioned can
score with the brief veil and its very fine meshing.
And those who resort to the kindly chemist for
the bloom of youth will bo still worse off, for
whilst the glow of pinked cheeks may seem natural
under a veil, how are the chin and neck to hide
the etching of Time’s graving chisel ?
Overheard in a Victorian railway car. Bell-
topper to Frockcoat: ‘ I really think we should
have had a holiday for the King’s coronation. It
looks so disloyal.’ Frockcoat: ‘I quite agree
with you. Do you know, there is a great deal of
disloyalty in the Government. There’s Jack
Murray, he’s a pro-Boer ! ’ Belltopper: ‘ Oh,
yes, we should have had a holiday. It’s a dis-
grace. Look what a loss it would have been to
Victoria if the King had died 1 All the summer
goods had been ordered, and do you know there
were only three black hats in all our warehouse.
It would have been a loss if he had died ! ’
“ One of the prettiest chorus charmers at Her
Majesty’s is the sister of a brainy young member
of the State Parliament, and she is the most
circumspect siren on the boards.
“The Tasmanians are much amusecf at their
taut little Governor. He has a mincing gait and
a mincing manner, and dons and doffs his monocle
at regular intervals. He would make, think they,
a capital Gilbertian figure to pace a vessel’s deck
and indulge in quizzical capers; or their fancy
pictures him as a nice little gaitered-and-shovel-
hatted bishop. On Coronation Day he saw the
parade through the driving sleet, and valiantly
endangered his rheumatic person by standing some
hours of chilling downpour. Therefore the
islanders think Gov. Havelock a game little party.
_“ A recent mail brought Melb. friends news of
Lionel Lindsay and his labors in Spain, and of his
arrival with his pile of canvasses in the Big Smoke.
A male correspondent tells of having been
thunderstruck at the luxuriant and tropical look of
L.L., and avers he is brimming over with life and
enthusiasm and capacity for work, and satisfac-
tion at the Spanish trip. He has a huge port-
folio of drawings illustrative of Merrimee’s
‘Carmen.’
“The economic spirit lays hold of the Mel-
bourne hostess, and her At-Homing takes the
meagre form of afternoon teas. There has been
scarcely any evening illumination for At Home
purposes. Society dames find themselves better
off as a result. But the opportunities for securing
‘ mixed-doubles ’ have been rare. How can busi-
ness in the marriage-market be brisk if there is
no forward movement on the part of the little
pets to be put under the hammer, or if the
mamma of the mart does nothing to attract
bidders to the goods offering ? If society girls are
to be married off with any celerity, their mothers
must turn on dinner and supper parties and dis-
creetly shaded electric-light. Afternoon teas don’t
promote love-making ; only scandal.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
A graceful form and well moulded bust
are essential to perfect beauty. Lacti, the
wonderful “Skin Food” is nature’s remedy for
giving back those essentials when lost through
sickness or action of time, and for supplying them
when constitutionally deficient. It fills all hollows,
develops and gives a charming roundness to neck
and arms. Price 7s. 6d. per jar, post 83. 3d.
Westall Guest, Toilet Specialist to the Gov.-
General, 229 Bourke-street, Melbourne.


Bad Blood.
Bad blood is the mother of fifty diseases. It causes disease wherever your
body is weakest.
Perhaps you suffer from pimples or pale cheeks, indigestion, rheumatism,
neuralgia, or general decline. In each case the cause is the same—bad blood.
Strike at once at the very root of your trouble by cleansing and enriching
your blood-supply with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. These little pills will give you
new, rich, red blood that will carry healing and health to every corner of your
system.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have cured hundreds of others. Give them a fair
trial and they will cure you.
Proof from Orange.
“My blood became weak and impure
a year ago,” writes Miss Laura Griffith,
of March, near Orange. “ Then indiges-
tion came on. I lost all relish for food, and
had to force myself to eat. I grew weak
and thin. My heart was so affected
that fits of palpitation would come on if
I hurried. I was pale-faced and des-
pondent, and suffered continually from
headaches. As my sister had been cured
by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills I tried them.
Three boxes enriched my blood and made
me a strong, healthy, young woman.”
Dr. Williams pin
or Pale people.
Sold hy all dealers or sent post free for 2a, 9d, a box, wln boxes for 15s. 3d. The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Stereotyped in all daily-newspaper offices :
“To-day Mr. Barton lunched with ”
“Vic.” We have nearly reached the time
when Treasurer Turner said he would retire. Let
us hope he won’t.
The President of Ballarat School of Mines
lately stated that 19 ex-pupils of that establish-
ment are earning £17,000 a year, amongst them.
Gr. Bron, the quaint and imaginative
draftsman now known to Bulletin readers,
was for years frontispiece artist of the War Cry.
Sydney Evening News is so industriously
circulating various disturbing political rumors of
late that it looks as though Mr. .Tim Hogue were
quite hungry for office again.
Sydney D.T., in a spasm of repentant
honesty, describes B. R. Wise in its leading
columns as “the best and ablest friend trades-
unionists have in Australian public life."
The Earl of Dudley, just appointed Lord-
Lieutenant of Ireland, will be chiefly remembered
in Sydney as the handsome young fellow who
attended Randwick races attired in a white linen
suit and a black belltopper.
What a gay old sea-dog air there is about
the very signature of N.S. W. Governor ! To see on
an Act of Parliament “ Harry H. Rawson,” in-
stead of the formal “Henry,” gives a “merrily-
my-hearties ” air to the whole document.
Not generally known that Clovelly House
(now uninhabitable), at Watson's Bay, Sydney,
the former residence of N.S.W.’s beloved old
Jaolr Robertson, was built by Henry Watson
Parker, when N.S.W. Premier, in 1856-7.
Enigmatic remark by Major - General
Hutton at a recent soldiers’ meeting :—
I feel that my time (for retirement) also will arrive
before many years are over, and that should be some
little consolation to you all. from the top to the bottom
of the military service.
One of the letters which Australia’s dear
old friend, Elijah Dowie, the Man of the Purple
Wings, now of Zion City, Chicago, prints in his
“Zion ” paper:—
I sent a request for prayer to you a short time ago,
asking you to pray for my fowls, which were dying off
with some kind of sickness.
I thank God that He has healed them. Not one has
died since I sent the request.
How good it is to have a loving Heavenly Father to go
to in our troubles, knowing that He will never forsake us
if we do His will and live close to Him.
I thank you for your prayers in our behalf
I pray God to spare your
life for many years to
carry on your Divine
mission as Elijah the
Restorer.
Elijah, the Eowl
Restorer!
OUTSIDE THE SUNDAY SCHOOL.
BOY: “Give something towards the Foreign Mis-
sions, sir? ”
THE OLD 'UN : "Ah, my boy, when it’s for a
Mission I always put my hand in my pocket ” —
BOY: “Thanks, sir.”
THE OLD 'UN : “But if it’s for a Foreign one —
I keep it there.”
Dr. Mercer, Tasmania’s new C.E. bishop,
is about due from England. Dr. Nixon, the first
bishop of the State, stayed a few years there and
then returned to England ; and Dr. Montgomery,
its last bishop, also left Tas. after a while’s ex-
perience.
Minister Bent sustained himself through-
out the recent trying time with chocolates, which
he carried in his tail pocket, and from which he
drew sustenance every few moments. Tommy
wolfs lollies wholesale, and is just now Mel-
bourne’s conspicuous apostle of sweetness.
“Dagonet,” in London Referee, on the
over-feeding of Australasian Premiers in England :
It is understood that directly they get on board ship to
return home the victims of Imperial unity will be put on
milk diet, and sent to bed every evening at nine, by order
of the Board of Health and the Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Colonial Premiers.
The reappearance of Bent in Vic. politics
recalls that there was once a “ Thomas Bent Land
Co.” in Victoria. It is dead now and it isn’t worth
while, speaking disrespectfully of the corpse.
Years have alleviated the fragrance of many a cat
of those old days, for Time is a great deodorant—
especially a deodorant of cats.
President Lackey, of N.S.W. Leg. Council,
goes for a six months’ rest. Seventy-two is not a
great age in polities, but he entered the lists early
and stands as one of the few survivors of those
who worked with and against him in his prime.
J. S. Earnell, Byrnes, Robertson, Parkes, Dailey,
Stuart dropped off years ago. Lackey, in his
young days, succeeded Hay as M.L.A. for Central
Cumberland, and in his old age succeeded him as
President of the Leg. Council,
Melb. Argus was shocked at Judge Hamil-
ton showing public sympathy with the civil-
servant victims of retrenchment, just as it was
shocked when Higinbotham sympathised with
the maritime strikers. But it reported, with sleek
approval, Judge Hodges’ Mafficking speech and
Judge Madden’s Jingp joy at the Stock Exchange
pow-wow. A J udge, in the opinion of the Argus,
must never climb down from the Bench to the
platform, unless to barrack for Argus views.
Fleming, the Melbourne “agitator,” has,
for the best part of his life, been, firstly, the
spokesman of the local unemployed; and,
secondly, a working bootmaker. Trenwith, on
the other hand, was, firstly, a bootmaker ; and
secondly, a labor-leader. Now he is mainly a poli-
tician—the member for Trenny.
“Melb.”: Bent’s full-length portrait in
his robes as Speaker, at the Aquarium, is sumptu-
ous ! A similar portrait, at the University, of
Redmond Barry in his robes as Chancellor, is a
fool to it. The Bent portrait was first shown on
a Collins St., Block staircase. People said it was
a scandal. “ Never mind,” said L. L. Smith, who
bosses the Aquarium, “Tommy ’ll come round
again. ”
Old Arthur Quintal, who died the other
day, was the patriarch of the Pitcairners. When,
a few years ago, a party of would-be scientists
built up a theory of degeneracy on the Pitcairners’
Sosed lapse into gibberish, old Arthur waxed
tily indignant, and maintained that the so-
gibberish was really Polynesian lingo, which
his critics didn’t understand. He was a perfervid
royalist.
Mr. Henniker Heaton has had a marriage
in his family, one of his sons marrying a lady
whose father is an “ honorable ” and whose grand-
father is a small Welsh lord. Among those cap-
tured to attend the wedding were: item, one
prince and princess (small German goods, but still
of genuine princely rank); item, three ambassa-
dors (from very small to medium) ; item, one lord ;
and in addition quite a number of “sirs.”
The British public is now crowning with
flowers De Wet, who, a few months ago, was a
dirty, treacherous murderer, so perhaps old-man
Kruger may yet have his character rehabilitated
in the eyes of London. At any rate, the yarn that
he took millions of money away fi-om S’Africa is
now contradicted by London D.T., which gives
print to an assertion that Kruger lent all his avail-
able private funds (£40,000), without interest, to
his country to help in the fight.
Paris Nesbit is again enlivening Adelaide
with a weekly paper, edited by himself. Last
time it was Morning, price one penny. This
time, it is the Morning Star, circulated gratuit-
ously ; “and it is worth it, too,” as Mark Twain
said. However, as a success of scandal, it would
be worth many pence, the attack on Chief-Justice
Way being in particular a bare-knuckles affair,
that nobody will countenance but everybody
wants to read. There is also much erotic verse
addressed ‘ ‘ To Paris ” by anonymous poetesses.
Contrariwise, S. Australia, the dusty wheat
State, where, for the life of them, they can’t keep
a mine outside Moonta going profitably, supplies
Vic. with a director for one of its bigger schools of
mines, at Stawell. Adelaide University issues a
diploma in mining ; and young Whitington, a
Science graduate, who now goes over the border,
was the first to win it. Failing to get any other
sort of billet after he had won the diploma, he
went underground, at Broken Hill, and got prac-
tical experience, which has lifted him out of the
ruck of school-trained men.
Henry Lucy tells S.M. Herald a yarn
about Dick Seddon. Dick, when a mere M.P.,
was invited by a one-time Governor of Maoriland
to “dine and sleep at Government House.”
Dined and slept well, but did not put in an
appearance at breakfast. He had left, and when
seen afterwards, said that he had not been invited
to breakfast, and so did not wait for the meal.
Same yarn been told of dozens of others—of
Joseph Arch, M.P., when asked to the Prince of
Wales’ house, for instance, and of Elijah when he
stopped for the night with Ahab.
The firm of W. M‘Arthur and Co., Sydney,
since its start, has been always addicted to poli-
tics. Alex. M‘Arthur, of the pre-Responsible
Government times, was a politician of note, and
became afterwards a member of the House of
Commons. His son, W. A., also took to politics,
and attained office in the Treasury; and W.
M‘Millan, now in the business, is the real
leader of the Calico Jimmies of the Common-
wealth (G. H. Reid is only chief comedian). The
politics of the M‘Arthur clan are always directed
to the fostering of their own commercial under-
takings.
Acting-Premier Ward’s chief, in fact, only
difficulty in leading Maoriland Parliament is in
the weakness of his colleagues. Outside himself,
there is not an average debater in the Cabinet,
with the exception of Carroll (Timi Kara), and he
is too indolent to speak often. In the lobby,
however, Timi is a host in himself, and he is
always told off to palaver any member who
threatens to “ kick over the traces.” Seldom,
indeed, does his saponaceous tongue fail him, and
with the Maori representatives (whose votes have
served the Ministry before to-day) he is an unfail-
ing peacemaker.
Amongst reliable traditions of early days
in Australia is the giant race, the sons of Anak,
who grew by scores about the old settlement.
Here is a remarkable instance indicating unrecog-
nised influences. Captain Browne (father of “Rolf
Boldrewood ”), one of the settlers of the thirties,
lived on his stations one decade and travelled the
next. He had eight children born of the one
mother, and those begotten in Australia of both
sexes were gigantic, while the boys and girls, who
first saw light in other lands were scarcely up to
the average. Any other cases of this sort would
be worth recording.
Sydney D.T.’s London
special re the Canadian Pre-
mier :
Sir Wilfred Laurier is a striking
personality in appearance, and still
more striking as a speaker. He
has a quaintly pleasing deliver}', in
which the traces of his French-
Canadian origin are charmingly
blended with the occasional pictur-
esque Americanisms, both of idiom
and utterance, that make the effort
of listening to his speeches one of
delight. The matter of his speeches
is as good as the manner. You
have no public speaker in Australia
who could very well be compared
with him, because his style is alto-
gether his own. But it is a, most
charming style.
Dr. Bevan congratulated
his Melbourne flock t’other
Coronation-day on the fact that
“the Hanoverian dynasty had
been proclaimed first in public
by a Nonconformist minister in
a Nonconformist chapel.” Dr.
Bevan—bless him ! —is proud of
the brutal, ignorant, licentious
German of 1714. The white-
fleeced shepherd should be set
to entertain his brethren and
sistern with readings from
Thackeray’s “Four Georges.”
“Billy” Lane, of New
Australia fame, is now on the
staff of the pro-monopolist
Auckland Herald, the most in-
veterate opponent of Liberal
legislation in Maoriland. His
fate is almost on a par with that
of Champion, the erstwhile
Socialist leader, who now writes
for the Age.
When lately J. H. Gordon,
S.A.’s Education Minister,
severely lectured country liter-
aryinstitutes upon the degraded
tastes which they for the most
part cultivate, one of those
nuisances with a long memory
for trifles dug up something.
It was a contribution to a long-
since - dead and never-resur-
rected country print, whose
authorship was traced to “a
forward youth named Gordon.”
In the course of some wildly-
mixed metaphors this critic
called on the local institute to
“eradicate this taste for vile
and nauseous intellectual pabu-
lum ” —in short, to Put Down
the Novel. And then some
Opposition leader of the future
called for a return, which showed that “Master
Gordon’s ” previous six-months’ borrowings from
that institute had consisted of 14 novels ! Up to
then Master Gordon was intended for another
career; but after that they made a lawyer of him.
Preacher Torrey, in one of his Sydney
addresses, declared that almost every anarchist
and every scoundrel was an infidel. It is com-
forting, anyhow, to know that Caesar Borgia was
an ex-cleric, and that his father, Alexander, was in
the same line of business as Torrey, while Louis
XI. hung on solidly to his faith and prayed hard.
Also, nobody ever cast any reflections on the piety
of Mary, who used to incinerate bishops at Smith-
field ; or her husband, Philip; or the Inquisitors;
or Cromwell, who massacred in a general way
around Ireland ; or the Scotch Presbyterians
when they got the upper hand and killed off their
enemies in the name of the Lord ; or the generally
bloodthirsty Israelites ; and even the devil has
never been justly accused of being an infidel,
whatever else may have been said against him.
Bent, by one who knows Thomas well
Bent, who so nearly bullied Vic. railway system out of
gear, is one of the survivals of the burly land-boomers.
A product of abundance of fertiliser and the sandy scrubs
about. Brighton he blustered his way into politics 30 years
ago, and filled out offensively in all ways as his prosperity
increased. The 1871 election, when the market gardener
beat the Liberal statesman Higinbotham, is one of the
puzzles of Vic. history. Explanation would be found if
the records of the self-styled Constitutional Party were
published. Bent served their turn, and, though repug-
nant to them in every sense, established claims which had
to be recognised. S rvice had tojfind him a job at the
tail-end of his first Ministry, and he was admitted without
protest into the O’Loghlen Government. But whenever
Democracy,' strongly led, held the reins, Thomas the
Bully was outside. Graham Berry would never touch
him, though in the big fight of the ’7o’s he hung on
to the skirts of the Liberal party, and his last Ministerial
office was 19 years ago, until Irvine dug him up
again the other day. The Speakership capped the
mystery, for why Thomas should be put in the
place of the first Commoner of the Sta: e no man outside
the secret caucus could discover. If traditions have any
weight he was all that a Speaker should not be. Asser-
tive, ignorant, rude, tactless —and yet he came within
one vote of the one-summer millionaire, Davies,
and subsequently put down J. G. Duffy and
Wrixon. Thomas, in all his instincts and habits,
is Bounderby over again—Bounderby incarnate,
and unless Democracy in Victoria is hobbled very
short, he is in the way now of a Bounderby fall. And yet
Brighton may continue faithful, for Brighton, like Bent,
has risen from the Cabbage Garden stage to what’s called
Respectability. It is the home of the small suburban
villa, and the small suburban mind, whose idol is cheap-
ness at any cost. And Thomas has been a cheap man all
his days, dead set against national policy and native
industry, and ready always to bring down wages and to
boom up land.
JOHN FORREST.
S. Australia lately lost by retirement the
matron of its one lunatic asylum after an un-
broken service of 37 years. The lady, Miss Lucy,
had a remarkable influence over her patients,
mainly, no doubt, because of her untiring efforts
to turn the institution into a cheerful, artistic
home, and keep it like that. S. Aus. has an
average record of “recoveries” of 55 - 8 per cent,
of male and 59'6 per cent, of female patients.
There died recently in Armidale (N.S.W.)
Hospital a man whose name was widely known in
the Australian backblocks. From him—John
Kinsella—came the idea known to every man who
has ever used hand-shears as “ Putting Kinchler
on ’em.” For the information of non-sheepish
people who may be interested, the simple opera-
tion is performed by pulling back the blades of
the shears from the point where they join the
handles, thus making them take more wool—tech-
nical term, “a bigger blow.” The pulling back
of the blades throws the points apart, and the
“knockers ” have to be filed-dowp correspondingly
to allow them to close.
Pretty plain by now that there’s more
than the King’s health behind the notable unrest
at Windsor. Some considerable part of the old
Edward survives in the divinely-appointed; the
old Edward was mostly old Adam, without the
chill off. Lord Salisbury’s refusal to “ennoble”
the King’s private financier, Sir Edward Cassel,
has made no end of trouble, and it is alleged that
the King is on exceedingly ill terms with the
Duchess of Buccleuch, a stickler for form and
Mistress of the Robes to Queen Alexandra.
Edward was to dine with the Duchess, and stipu-
lated that a lady friend of his should be of the
party. The Duchess kicked, and the King caved
in with a bad grace.
Mr. G. A. Murray, who died at Manly
last week, had been lost to the public eye since
the burst-up of the P. N. Russell ironworks through
a strike 30 years ago. Mr. Murray, partner with
Mr. Russell, was a gentleman who “intended to
manage his own affairs, ” and did not admit that
the workers should interfere with his property.
No conference, no compromise—consequence, a
big concern snuffed out, and a most useful
life reduced to impotence. Sydney papers credit
(or discredit) Mr. Murray with having been the
real originator of the London donkey contingent.
Well, the true author certainly lived at Manly
(whether it was W. B. Dailey, Gen. Strickland, or
G. A. Murray, who all used to live in a bunch in
the seaside village). All three claimed paternity,
and Strickland went to his grave a disappointed
man because Dailey got the kudos and the statue
—the poor, dumpy little statue.


WEAK-SKSNTEP REAPERS^
Who are unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
stitching or writing with comfort, whose distant vision is dull
and who suffer from persistent headaches or pains after close
application—you may rest assured that vou are suffering from
Ageing' or Impaired Vision, and Ifeed Glasses. You
should visit us, and have your sight scientifically tested, and
be supplied with Glasses adapted to your individual case.
Yli COUNTRY READERS who cannot visit us personally, we send, Post Free to any address, with full instruc-
tions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate and popular SELF SIGHT-MEASURING PATENT. By its use
you ean Test your own sight and determine for yourself the style and quality of the glasses you may need
WViW for it to—
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Consulting: Optician,
371 George St., Sydney,
next door to the A. J.S. Bank.
King and George Streets.
And at 232 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, opposite Aqe Office.
DAVID STORER & SONS’ Three ColQrs - BLfICK| BEDand BLUE
Registered
Trade
Mark.
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking
The Perfect Sheep-Marker, wvv SHEEP BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.— ln the case ef ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
The good effect upon the railway-
traffic which a general bursting-up of big
landed estates would have is shown in the recent
cutting-up of the sheep stations in a portion of
the Yic. Western District. The goods traffic at
Wickliffe-road railway station (distributing centre
for the new farming community) has increased
fully a hundredfold during the last year or two.
Before that it was a novelty (except for a few
weeks during the wool season) to see a truck in the
station yard. Now the yard promises soon to
need enlargement to meet the demands upon it.
The passenger traffic shows a similar increase.
Why cannot the dull-brained Vic. Govt, see this
as a sample of how the railway deficit may be
wiped out ? The lines run through scores of miles
of big non-producing estates to reach the farmers
beyond. Why not have farmers all along the
route ?
OLD STOCK.
BUNG : “This is a drop of good stuff. Had it by me seven years.”
COOKY : “ Well, don’t try workin' yer old tack off on me. Trot
out something fresh, or I’ll go across the road.”
A teamster talked to a Bulletin man of
his last trip across from Broken Hill to the White
Cliffs opal-field, where from 1500 to 2000 people
have been for several weeks making acquaintance
with Famine: —
The man gave me three coppers change out of the
shilling I threw down for a 21b. loaf ; and as three
coppers are three coppers on a long dry trip, I turned
into the next shop for threepenn’orth of apples. The
woman turned over her little shrivelled stock till she
found one the right size—my threepenn’orth. It’s no use
trying to get through now with a big load unless you’ve
got a very strong team and don’t mind losing some of it.
It’s only 160 miles, but several of the stages are dry.
I met a bullooky last trip, whose stock hadn’t been
watered for three days, ana then for the end of the third
day he. was reckoning on a tank which I knew was run
out. Poor brutes, they’re lying all along the track. If
one knocks up you must leave it—you risk all the rest
and yourself, too, if you stay or go slow to suit it. Most
of us just rush through now with light loads on express
waggons, and then we’re two days without water, the
last day into the Cliffs and the first day out. You
couldn't get a drink for a beast there for love or lucre.
And we have to cart every mouthful of feed for both
ways. The last trip I came back on rice; they were
round my camp, poor little kids, begging for bran to
make a bit of bread. There hadn’t been any sold for
eight days, and for nearly a week the stores had
been clean out of flour. ' I had picked up three
bags of it for a team that had broken down, and
the word got through the township that it was
coming. There were people who walked out two miles to
meet me, they wanted to make sure. The man it belonged
to divided it up equally, about a couple of pints to each.
That was a shilling’s worth. An Afghan came in with six
701 b. bags of chaff on his camel. A teamster drawing
water put down a pound a bag for it. He had 12 horses,
poor as wood ; he might get two feeds for his team out of
it. A few days after that it was 275. 6d. a bag. There’s
a station tank of water 16 miles out, but there isn’t the
power to fetch it in. Most of the young fellows have
left, or lots of them ; but the men with their families
—how can they ? They just hang on, God only
knows how; hang on and hope. Yes, it’s dead
miserable and you get out as soon as your
load’s off, and your team has had a blow—back through
the sand that growls under your wheels, to the water you
left at daybreak yesterday morning, flogging your poor,
parched, leg-weary, staggering brutes to save their lives
and your own—if it isn’t hell, it’s pretty close to it.
And that’s how sometimes they win the opal that
burns and dances in my lady’s bosom.
A girl’s letter from the West :
We live out west, so are in the worst of the drought.
Not a drop of rain has fallen on it for over 12 months.
One tank has held out wonderfully during this drought
and still has a few inches of what we once called water in
it. What it is now I can’t sa3 T . It is of a greenish tint
and you can smell it from any corner of the thirteen
thousand acre run. Have been carting water from the
nearest neighbor for what stock there is left alive. Had
one cow until recently. It was a young cow. I found it
one night leaning against a tree, looking rather thin, I
thought. I took a fancy to it and sneaked it some hay
every night after dark.' I kept on doing this for a good
while. She was always in the same spot every night and
seemed to know we were engaged in a nefarious trans-
action, for she never made any noise when I brought the
feed, as some silly animals would have done. After I had
been fetching her the hay every night for about a week, I
began to notice a very strong smell. As each night it was
getting worse, I thought there must be a dead iguana in
the tree and said to myself that I would make it my
business to go down in the morning and have a look.
When I got into the paddock next morning I could see
my cow lying down dead, and the smell was even w'orse
than before. All the hair was coming off ray cow and she
was green and decayed. She had been dead for a fort-
night leaning against the tree. I then discovered that
the other cattle had come up every night and eaten the
hay after I was gone, and this night they had been fight-
ing over it and had knocked my cow down. I always look
in the daylight now to see what I am feeding.
•** * •
A yarn is told of a very big sheep-man in
W. Queensland during last year’s drought. He
took 20,000 sheep to Longreach for trucking. A
brother sheep-man, who heard him mention that
he was going to the station to order trucks, got
there before him, and ordered all those available
for next week. He got those 20,000 muttons at
Is. a head.
• • * •
“Rad.”: Re sheep-slaying horses. When
I was on Tolarno Station, Lower Darling, in ’93,
the station thoroughbred sire. “Kit Knubbles”
(he had raced 'in Caulfield Cup in the early
’9o’s), was exercised every day in a large stock-
yard at the home station. Into the yard I had
occasion once to put 150 ration-sheep for a few
minutes, and on returning found the horse charg-
ing the sheep, striking them with his forefeet and
then shaking them in his teeth like a dog scruffing
a rat. On investigating, found two sheep with
broken backs and one severely worried.
“T.H.W.”: Recount-
ing power of Australian
blacks. I know a nigger
who marks billiards accu-
rately—not by shifting score
at every stroke, but in or-
thodox style: “12 to go, 15
to go, 17 to go,” etc., adding
total on to score at finish of
break. He also marks devil’s
pool. Plays the piano as
well as many a public-house
pianist, but cannot read or
write. Another N.W. native
black in same district (Koo-
kynie) tends sheep and reads
Marie Corelli. Likes “ Thel-
ma,” but thinks “The Mas-
ter Christian ” somewhat
heavy. Lent me “The Origin
of Species,” upon which he
discourses intelligently, but
repudiates a theory for which
his own countenance is a
strong argument.
* #
“Yril”: Was in the
ward of a Westralian hospi-
tal when a big burly team-
ster, dying of enteric, half
raised himself in bed and
started “driving.” “Baw-
ley ” was apostrophised,
Rose was reminded of her
ancestors’ immoralities, and
so on, until a nurse flew to
the bedside and pushed down
the dying man. She was
received with “Gee-off, Kate
-gee-off ! ” and then, as she remained quiet by
his side, received his dying benison. “ Good old
girl! I knowed you wouldn’t jam me. It’s that
on the off-side ! ”
.** * *
The question of water supply for Queens-
land Railway Department is getting very serious.
Scarcely a week passes without some of the usual
watering stations giving out, and what is being
used is of very bad quality. At Rockhampton
the water used contains 91 grs. of salt per gal.,
and has a total hardness of 33 per cent. In one
week 11 engines failed from the effects of the bad
water used.
* • • *
“P.” : If the present drought continues
much longer we shall all be cleared out-
man, bird and beast. The feathered folk of the
bush are having a terrible time. No grain, no
fruit, and the ground so hard that worm-prospect-
ing is a blank. For the past month I have been
feeding about 50 birds, comprising grey magpies
(jays), black-and-white magpies, satin-birds,
parrots, and one John-Bottom (foreman). As soon
as day breaks they arrive and perch about the
yard, and, when the cook rattles the plates, there
is a general flutter of feathers, and down they
swoop at her feet and devour the scraps. They
are tame as cats, and no sooner is their feast
over than their liquid warblings begin, as if in
thanks. The black-and-white magpies are parti-
cularly fond of picking bones.
• » • •
“ Chas. R.” : Re a recent Bulletin par.
to the effect that the drought had not yet affected
the trees in Central Queensland. Present writer
has been travelling there, and in many places
found not only, trees dying and scrub giving out,
but even the prickly pear withering-up.
• * * *
Large quantities of half-grown sugarcane
are now being sold at the Brisbane markets for
cattle-food. When cut up in an ordinary chaff-
cutter it has been found to make excellent and
fattening feed, besides being very cheap.
Lucerne chaff is locally selling at £lO 6s. per ton.
A QUIET HORSE.
THE MAN (who hired the horse): "I thought you said this horse was afraid of nothing.”
STABLE BOY: “I did.” THE MAN: “ Why, confound it, he even shies at his own shadow.”
S.B.: “ Well, an’ that’s the nearest to nothing that I know of.”
Just as N.S.W. Govt, had decided to offer
£5OOO for the best means of eradicating the
prickly pear (which, by the way, was once culti-
vated, like “farmer’s friend,” “Bathurst burr,”
and other “souvenirs of Home”), a little insect
comes forward which promises to do the eradi-
eating for a living. The Govt. Entomologist
reports that, at Mungindi, the pear is being killed
off in large patches by the Rutherglen bug
(Nysius vinitor). This insect breeds in wild
mustard, and when that dies it swarms on to
anything green, notably prickly pear, which then
decays rapidly right to the roots. Experiments
are now being made at the Hawkesbury Agricul-
tural College to determine if the organism of
disease communicated by the bug can be used on
a large scale to wipe out the pear.
WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY, PERHAPS.
FIRST SCOTCHBYTERIAN : “ There’s no word of
Meenister MacTisers peace sairmon in this
morning’s papers.”
SECOND DITTO.: “Eh? Hoo then wull Proavi-
dence ken he opened his mouth aboot it?”
“Cecil P.”: Re ringbarking (“D.H.R.”
15/6/’01). Per contra: the system undoubtedly
produces springs where otherwise non-existent.
Further, moisture is either in the ground, in which
case one has it; or it evaporates and helps to pro-
duce more rain without, of course, adding the oxy-
gen that the timber would. In any case, what
good is rain when timber prevents growth of
grass ? Am far from denying the evil effects of
general deforestation in some cases, but does
“D.H.R.” think that clearing of heavy masses of,
say, mallee scrub would make parts of south Cen-
tralia any dryer ? It couldn’t.
How quickly the rain affects Out-back !
On Aug. 20th it was announced that Govt, con-
templated moving the population of White Cliffs
to a concentration camp on the Darling on account
of threatened water-famine. Aug. 22 the mail-
coach from the south into the township was
blocked by a rain-storm, which filled up all the
creeks and covered the country with a sheet of
water.
* * * *
On Shaw’s Rawbelle station, Burnett
district (Q.), is a bullock which has a fifth leg
growing between the shoulder blades. This limb
has three claw-like appendages instead of the
usual hoof. The animal is now seven years old
and quite healthy, but exceedingly vicious.
“W.M.8.”: Re that minimum-
wage. T’other day I asked a she dairy-
farmer, who was cleaning up after 0
cows, why she didn’t get a man to do the
work. “Well,” she replied, “I ’ad a
man ’ere for three years, but he went
’ome to the old country.” “ What wages
did you pay him ?” I asked. “ Five shil-
lings a week,” she said, almost proudly.
“ Mac. D.” : I killed a calf t’other
evening while the cows were feeding in
the paddock about a mile way. The
victim died without a bleat, yet in
10 minutes’ time the mother of that
calf arrived at the yard. She was
still there in the morning, and
would not go into the yard with
the other cows. When I tried to
drive her in she charged me, but
at length I persuaded her with the
stockwhip. Talk about wireless
telegraphy! How did that cow
know I was butchering her calf ?
• • *
“Pelican” : W.A. cohentin-
genters should have been valuable
experts in S. Africa for discover-
ing buried arms, Kimberley
“ graves ” being a peculiar feature
of the sand State. When lost
camels or dead pack-horses left
prospectors with stores on hand that
could not be humped out of the wil-
derness and that would be stolen if
left, it was usual to inter the stuff in a shal-
low grave and put rough hand-rails round the
heap. Worked all right until the dodge got to be
generally known when body-snatching became the
order of the day.
* • * •
The country is now so barren around
Merriwa (N.S.W.) that horses have taken to
burrowing after roots. This causes them to
swallow a good deal of sand, and death in time
results from ‘ ‘ sandball. ” Many owners, after
feeding the animals in stables or yards, now turn
them into the paddocks with nosebags on; and
they wander about, or stand head to tail, keeping
flies off each other, till next feed-time.
* * » *
Messrs. Archer Brothers, of Gracemere
(C.Q.), have been successfully experimenting with
Erickly pear as a cattle food. The spines are first
urned off, and the pear is next chaffed and
cooked, and when mixed with bran or chaff is
eagerly eaten by the cattle. There has been no
falling off in the milking capacity of the 400 cows
fed on the pear, and the saving through its use is
estimated at from £6O to £7O per week.
VOICES LOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
VIC.
Through many a year with small respite,
We’ve born the strain and stress of toil;
Our motto still to work and fight.
Though Fate appropriate the spoil.
Where are the ideals of our dreams—
The home on hillside green and plain,
The wealth of acres and of teams,
The rich response to drenching rain ?
Ah I pity us who blindly tread
Before the Drought’s consuming breath :
Around us, bones of the dumb dead,
In front, the scourge—and balm—of death
WILL JARRATT.


• •
Kuppers Mlberfeld Lag*er.
A VICTORIAN
- BUYER
Who bought a
“ Fx. & R” Watch,
Wrote last week : “I must again say, as a timekeeper it
was perfect, performing better than a £7/10/- watch which
1 have of a certain make.”
The watch referred to cost 30/-*
HAS Brequet overcoil balance-spring and 15 jewels.
HAN compensated and adjusted balance.
f p,jp jewel ruby rollers, is dust-proof and WATERTIGHT.
IHE Case SCREWS together, and the Watch is specially
made to stand Hough Riding and knocking about,
and go with profound accuracy.
These Watches are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order
without charge (breakages excepted) for two years.
In Oxidised 0.1 , \
Case, i Ol-
io. Solid Silver
Case. 4 2/-
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
22 Hunter Street.
/
LONDON .
SB
4
%
Cent’s O.F. Meta! Case, 15 Jewels, 30/-.
A batch to finish-up the question :
“Albo” to “Hypo” once again : Allowing that trees
do shoot from the ground, to begin with : How can the
fork of a tree reach a given height without being carried
up with the tree’s growth ? As a nipper, I was very fond
of transplanting young pines, and with some of these
limbs that were 2ft. from the ground when planted are
now over 6ft. up. Marks, natural or otherwise, remain
stationary on full-grown trees only.
[This seems to be the point that has caused all the
discussion.—Ed. B.]
“Thurla” to “Albo” (B. 20/6 ’O2) re trees carrying
marks upwards. How about surveyors when looking up
old survey-marks on trees ? Do they climb up amongst
the limbs to find them ? I remember once seeing a sur-
veyor in New England looking for a tree marked about
40 years before. When he located it, the marks were
covered by new wood, which, when chopped out, had
the raised numbers on it—the original numbers being
about the usual height of survey-marks. Also, do trees
used as straining-posts for fences root the other posts out
eventually ?
lie trees and marks. “ Richlands,” an
original “Crown grant” to William M’Arthur, was
surveyed, I think, in ’39, and in ’BO a surveyor had occa-
sion to locate one corner of this grant. After much
trouble the corner-tree was found, in a yellow box about
3ft. in dia., the blaze being entirely grown over, though a
mark was visible on the bark. After cutting this away
and taking out a shield-shaped piece of new wood the
original blaze and “ broad-arrow ” were found perfect as
if freshly cut. I have been present many times at
similar recoveries of old survey-marks on trees; and in no
case had the old mark appreciably increased its distance
from the ground.
“G.F.J.": In proof that trees do not carry mark up-
ward. lam at present surveying on a block i. 4 miles sq.
laid out over 60 years ago. The boundary-lines ran
through a score of different timbers, and I have found the
old markings in trees varying from inches to feet in dia.,
yet have never noticed a blaze higher than a man could
conveniently cut with an axe. Again in railway work I
know of a bench-mark having been cut in a small tree and
20 years afterwards the level on the same mark was
checked to the hundredth of a foot.
• • * »
William MacGregor, when Governor of
British New Guinea, was amongst the first to
suppose a connection between mosquito-bite and
malarial fever. In view of the fact that such
connection has since been conclusively demon-
strated, there is interest in the following ex-
tract from a letter recently received in Australia
from S’William—now Governor of Lagos, in
West Africa :
But we shall be able to dispense with the weekly 15gr.
of quinine and with the mosquito-proof rooms in a very
short time. A few months ago this house was infested by
mosquitoes, and Lady Benton died in it of black-water
fever. I had fever last year every day for two or three
months. By destroying the breeding grounds of mos-
quitoes we have all but killed them off That is going to
the root of the evil. It consists in draining, in filling-in
all swamps and puddles, in removing all empty tins,
bottles, &c., and in killing every mosquito in the house.
That rids one of fever, of the pests themselves, of mos-
quito wire-gauge, and of quinine. There has been no
case of fever in my house this year.
* * * *
“ J.M.L.”: I have ascertained by obser-
vation that if an old man and a young one are on
the track together, the senior’s back is always
much more liberally embellished with flies than
the junior’s. What explanation ?
A pair of convict leg-
irons were unearthed recent-
ly during ploughing opera-
tions at Castle Hill
(N.S.W.) —the scene of the
first serious riot in the Sys-
tem’s days, when some
prisoners cleared out with
the avowed intention of
walking westward and es-
caping to China.
* * * *
“ Trotter ” : Banana-
land’s climate must be con-
ducive to the production of
large families. The selector
and pumpkin-squatter have
mostly enormous broods. I
recently struck a 3-roomed
humpy and found 20 chil-
dren in family—a widow
with nine had married a
widower with ten, and one
had arrivedafterwards. The
whole family camped in the
three rooms, coiling rp
together in the corners wit n
only a curtain drawn aero s
here and there. The girls
ranged from 5 yeats to 17,
and the boys up to 19.
**• ' *
One Denis Farrell, of
Annandale, Sydney, recent-
ly went into a stable to feed
a ho se and cow, when the
cow kicked him, breaking
his left arm in two places
and throwing him against
the horse, which also kicked
him, breaking his left leg
and knocking him over a
barrel, by which several of
his ribs were broken. Denis,
however, survived this
deadly game of ping-pong.
* * * *
At Emerald, Alpha and
Clermont (Q.), frapp: rs are
earning from £4 to £5 a week poisoning ’possums
with cyanide.
An order has been received in Maoriland
for one hundred tons of turkeys for London
market.
Showing how they do business in the Vie.
departments, it is recorded that the Mines, as an
experiment, shipped 60 tons of local brown coal to
Germany to be squeezed into briquettes, the idea
being to turn the State s vast lignite lodes to com-
mercial ad vantage, if possible. That is practically
the end of the experiment, everybody having for-
gotten all about the whole business for years. The
transaction was paid for at top rates, and promptly
jerked out of the official mind until a few months
back, when outside curiosity prompted officialdom
to arise and think. Then inquiries were made in
Germany and all over the place, but no trace of
the lost 60 tons of briquettes has been found, and
the department | resumes in a tired way that the
sample was returned and used for tooth-paste, or
building material, or something without anybody
knowing anything about it.
ANS WERS to CORRESONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on 1/ >'.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will JtS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Kiwi : In your oath-argument you’re being
deceived by a half-truth. There is no moral obligation,
perhaps, to keep an oath taken under compulsion, but no
principle of British law admits that fact, though many
British statutes have at various times prescribed oaths
under pressure (the Test Act, the Corporation Act, and
so on). Further, the King is not compelled to take his
Coronation oath ; he could certainly get out of it by
abdicating. As to the Boer “ traitors ” shot for breaking
neutrality oaths forced upon them, of course the British
shouldn't have shot them after compelling them (in a
way) to the oath. Their cases, if tried under the S’African
civil law, would have come under the Roman-Dutch law,
which is a good deal more liberal and just in many re-
spects than English common law... .Lackobite : That's
your trouble; no bite....W.M. : Long epic poem on
“ the Breelong Tradgery,” beginning—
“ 'Twas on a selection dull and lonely,
Inhabited by one family only,
Situated ten mile from the nearest town
That five lives were ruthlessly cut down
doesn’t appeal to us at all. Taste is a curious matter, you
know... .Snakejuice : We ourselves have seen the advt.
and the book, but we don’t propose to help publicans to
obtain recipes for the making of bogus liquor. In fact
we’d be in favor of dealing out two years’ hard to any
grog-vendor found in possession of such literature
J.S.G. : Thirteen paragraphs, each of them exactly a full
side of same-sized paper, and not one of them but could
be condensed by three-fifths. Returned to give you an
exercise in boiling-down... .J.M.L. : “Summer Day” is
English minor verse, and we want Australian major verso.
... .Joe. W. :A. is right. What we call moonlight is the
sun’s light directly reflected from the moon’s surface on
to the earth.... Imi: “What do we mean by ‘a White
Australia?’” Well, we just mean a green, well-irrigated
Australia full of white people with nice, yellow money in
their pockets H.P.: You utterly miss the point. The
fact that a great scientist—as every great scientist will
himself admit— may possibly be in error does not justify
the application to him of such a term as “ ignoramus,”
which savours not of argument, but of abuse. Also, the
fact that a minority has frequently turned out to be right
proves absolutely nothing as regards the “ rightness ” of
any particular minority... .Korati: That Edward VII.
public-bull yarn already printed. Please don't usesponge-
paper... .Demo : The British Royal family costs vastly
more than the U.S. or French President. An attempt is
often made, however, to “ fake ” the figures by assuming
that the cost of these countries’ paid Legislatures
(Britain’s is unpaid) arises, somehow, through repub-
licanism, and by tacking that item on to the account
J.G.D.: The war’s a dead subject, and poor old Swaddy
nowadays isn’t asked to name it; he’s given in charge
promptly if he dares to suggest that he’s thirsty
Korero : What’s in a name ? A great deal. A man’s
name, when it is given, shows something of the character
of his parents. When a boy is named Ebenezer he mostly
deserves it, because that is the sort of person his
father or his mother is; and the name is in him
a mark of hereditary predisposition. Considering
Christian names—isn’t Percy usually a very naice
youth, and Jabez a young man with Sunday-school
leanings and an inclination for embezzlement?
J.E.O. (Z.): Old! Why it appeared in Tiie Bulletin’s
EDWARD LAURI (Mr. Pineapple) and MISS MAY BEATTY
(Fi Fi) in Musyrove's Operatic production, “A Chinese
Honeymoon. ” Ph o to. by Talma, Melbourne.
very first issue Kelso : Gordon, Paterson, and Ogilvie
are all of Scotch descent, anyhow L. Ped. •lb was
alleged the Rothschilds offered to-buv the Victorian rail-
ways.... EB.J : “Explorers” just' rhymed common-
place. ... Wanderer : Some decent figures, but too crude.
Corn. if. : Pretty album-verse M. O’M. - “Bac-
chanalia ” has no fine frenzy S. Cralton : Can’t under-
take to “ fix up for publication” verse which has no
merit of any sort, though if a strong idea comes in poor
metre we may try to drudge it into shape Index •
Verse not up to mark. Can’t acknowledge all pars •’
’t won Id take 20 c 015... .Shortie : Series of little puns'
send to one of the papers which deal in that sort of
thing. A.D.B. : lie is expected back by the
end ot the year E.O.D. : Too tedious..
U.B. (Iquique): You don’t say what you want us to do •
better complain to the British Consul.... W.B. :“ s. B.’s
If.” too close to Kipling’s great yarn of the sea-serpent.
... .A. Conway : “ Halkett ” not humorous, but its effort
to be so is painfully obvious R. Stewart : There are
other R.S.’s ; you’d better get a distinctive pen-name
Cecil J. (M.L.): Well-phrased verse, but too nice and p ett y
for 8.. .. A.E.N. : Your calm certainty as to what's goin<--
lo happen a million years hence awvs us lames A. A.”
Shows skill, but is too obviously “ Swinburney ” ■ try
something shorter and simpler..... Homer : “ Hagar ”
strikes us as absolutely unnatural ; that’s not the"way
o women.... M. : “ Serapbina ” altogether too melo-
dramatic. ..*. Boomerang : Rather too lengthy, oonsider-
ing the smallness of that Maoriland preacher and the
barrenness of his “poem.”.. . .E.L.B. : Glad to have any
evidences of the P. of W.’s intellect H.S.R. : The
legend is that Seddon was once in partnership with a
Chinaman named Bun Tuck, or was known in the
firm as Bun Tuck, but that is untrue Kiero:
Tub Bulletin isn’t booming the Australian soldier fallen
in S’Africa, and will not subscribe towards any memorial
to him.... W.J.W. : Most of those “ accidents ” were the
result of the grossest carelessness. Think of fooling about
a miss-fire hole full of gelignite with a drill! J.B. :
But then no motor-car is run by acetylene gas.... Percy
W. : Your friend is an impudent romancer. Story old as
the hi 115.... H.H. :If you have matter printed by Bulle-
tin and don’t get paid for it, that is purely your own
fault for not claiming. You can’t expect us to chase with
money anyone who isn’t some sort of a genius Nym :
Never before heard of a Rochester millionaire. He’ll
probably cub up for £25,0 .0... .Comstock : Sorry cannot
inform you V. Job : Descriptionally dull Rees L. :
Some skill, but not quite on mark.... M’Duff : Flat as a
pancake J.P.O. : Faintly humorous F.X.R. : Duly
to hand Hermidon : Moderate merit only VV. J.
Vick : Too formal and prosy Kiwi: Pretty good yarn,
but founded on incident already recounted in Bulletin. ..
Cranky J. : G00d....J. M. Lewry : Regret we have no
opinion to offeron the subject F.G.H.: “ New Chum,”
no g00d.... Sirdar : Too crudely t01d... .Graeme D. :
Idea good; handling indifferent Ajax: Some of the
ideas have merit, but the verse is very painful in places.
....Maria Barr: Both wholly unconventional and unin-
spired O-Splash: Too straggly and incoherent....
Wanderer : “ Too Late” doesn’t fall far short of the mark.
Telephone : Duly returned. You haven’t the story-
tellinggift J.V.S. : Bulletin pays for what it prints.
W.S.II, : Idea not new Edward Vassal : Shows
same talent for verse, but no coherence L.M.H. (Fiji):
Not quite up to mark G. Byrne : Ideas too familiar.
D.M.R.'(M.L.) : Very pretty; will print S.J.M. :
Good thought, poor expression Francis D. : No
originality... .Boundary-rider: Nosnap... ,J.A.C. : Too
thin.. . .Rita S. : “Stockwhip Knight ” only a C.M.G
F.M.: ’Murkan pars mostly useless Tom : Man couldn’t
live for long in an air-tight room with “ a supply of com-
pressed oxygen.” How would he get rid of the carbon
dioxide ?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Edward S. (Brisbane) : May do for re-drawing. He has
yet to go far in the matter of draftsmanship.... Win. S. :
No interest now... .G.W.8.: Two accepted as suggestions.
....J.E.E. : Good idea 8.A.8. : The one published
was probably the only one usable. If any more appear
you will be paid.... A.R.B. : Very, very 01d.... Knellie :
Nice, little drawing, but legend suffers from senile
debility Arnold D. : None suitable Theo. : An old
idea Unavailable: A.M.D., H.M.R., G.8.T., T. le 8.,
L.A., R. de 8., XBA., R.M.T., Dolly Also:
C.H., 8.8., Wild -Wanderer, F.D., Med, F.C.S., A.R.0.,
General, Alone, M.E.J.P., W.P.Y., F.W.W.
The toughness of the Queensland infant !
A few weeks ago a 2|-year-old girl named Evelyn
Harris drifted into the bush at Ballon, and dis-
appeared. She was out the whole of a bitterly
cold night, and was found next day making very
respectable progress along the Mitchell-road,
having covered 20 miles in the 24 hours ! ! The fact
that this sturdy and valiant mite was named Evelyn
has no direct bearing on the case. Most children
at the Back of Beyond are named either that or
Muriel.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
Long ago, when a deputation of burghers
went to report to Paul Kruger the discovery of
gold in the Transvaal, he told them that “they
would have to pay for every ounce of it, drop by
drop, with their blood.” Prophetic insight !
THREE KISSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
J KISSED her once, and held
her tight,
She blushed a vivid red ;
I watched her eye to note its
light:
“You HORRID BEAST 1” sh«
said.
I kissed her twice, and held her
still
(I watched her eye in dread);
I squeezed her gently, too, until
“ You WICKED THING ! ” she
said.
I kissed her thrice. She wasn’t
“ wild,”
She only turned her head ;
And then she watched my eye,
and smiled :
“ You DARLING BOY ! ” she
said. '
OKTIN.
A Railway Strike.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The driver was having a look around his engine
to see that all was ready to “go for it ” as soon as
he could get away.
“Not on strike! No. The strike threat is
withdrawn. We are going to try ‘ constitutional ’
means to get Parliament to say that we shall not
be retrenched.
“Do I think the trains would have run had we
gone on strike ? No. If the signalmen had come
out, as I believe they would have, not a train
could have left Melbourne or arrived there. That
is my belief.
“ What about the retired men taking our places ?
They could not do it. That was mere bluff.
Besides, I doubt if many would have attempted it.
I heard of one or two who had arranged to start,
and then take a ‘ hiding ’ from the strikers, and
go off sick. They claimed that that would have
given them a right to compensation—which they’d
have forfeited if they got the sack.
“ The mining engine-drivers? Yes, I saw the
letters in the papers stating that they were pre-
pared to drive the locomotives at a day’s notice.
Look here, the writers did not know what they
were talking about. I doubt if there was one
letter from a genuine mining engine-driver. They
know that they could not do our work right away
as well as we know we could not do theirs. I like
to hear people talk about engine-driving ! Yes ;
it looks simple. You just put tlie lever in forward
and open the ‘regulator’ gear to go ahead, and
reverse the lever to go back. That is all there
seems to be in it. But I would like to ask these
smart men a few questions as to what they would
do under different circumstances. For instance,
what should be done if, on coming to a station, it
was found impossible to shut the steam off ? Or
if the engine got off the road ? Or a piston-rod
broke? Or the reversing-lever broke ? Or if the
pump would not shut off? Or the injector would
not work ? Or a cylinder end knocked out ? Ora
‘ big end ’ cotter was lost ? Or a link-hanger
broke? Or the drawhook behind the tender
broke ? Or dozens of similar common engine
failures occurred ? Then there is the Westing-
house Brake. That would not be used till the
new chums were it, you say ? Then
God help the travelling public ! To stop when
necessary, without any ‘ Westinghouse, ’ would be
almost impossible, especially if the necessity arose
suddenly. We look upon a temporary failure of
the brake as one of the most awkward things that
can happen to us on the road.”
“ How.did they get on before it was invented?”
“Well, I don’t know ; that often puzzles me.
Of course, the trains have increased enormously
in weight since then. Numerous other difficulties
arise that the outsider knows nothing of. The
engine might start ‘ priming ’ going up a bank.
In two minutes the boiler would be in danger if
not skilfully handled, so quickly is the water
thrown out. The very strong blast of the loco-
motive would be one of the greatest surprises,
among many surprises, to the stationary engine-
driver. For that reason alone a raw hand would
never keep a full pressure of steam. Every driver
who takes a young engine-cleaner out of the sheds
knows that he has to do most of the firing himself
for the first few trips. Suppose, then, the men
were both .new chums ! No, it is not so simple as
it may look. I have merely touched upon one or
two of the things that may happen, and are hap-
pening, every day. But we must go now. Wa’ve
got ‘line clear.’”
THE TRAVELLER.


GETTING READY THE PRUNING-KNIFE.
"N.S.W. civil servants were much perturbed at the announcement of the necessity for retrenchment in all departments, and especially at the possibility of such retrenchment
affecting their salaries. Nothing has been said of beginning at the top of the tree and reducing Ministerial salaries.” —News Item.
O’SULLIVAN: “BE CAREFUL, JOHN, NOT TO CUT YOURSELF!”


land for settlement
It has been decided by the Government
that an ares of about 1200 acres on tbe Moe
Swamp shall be thrown open for settlement
as soon as possible. This land is situate on
the north side of the main drain, midway
between Moe and Trafalgar. It is as yet
but poorly drained, and the sum of £lOOO
.has therefore been allotted \ for the purpose
of making it suitable for settlement. The
work of draining is to be done in small
contracts, let to men registered at the Labor
Bureau, and the first three will be let on
Thursday next, a deposit of £1 being neoes-
sary in each case.
Vill ditiyorje, let|^
OuK
\e
go k l’iVsa>
dfe,ir>
vj»
B>%> S P *>>
.<£ * O'
/<4W
° o<
.i? ,j>®
"V V*
- <fV*
N
Mr. L. E. GBOOV't&Vmtt *• W most Im-
portant that provision should bo mode fdr tbs
sending of free telegrams in connection with
,fche meteorological service. TJae reliability of
weather forecasts depended on the regular re-
ceipt of reports from many distant centres. It
would be a matter of great regret if the Bill
resulted in the lose 'of *be Queensland weather
forecasts
yje 'tijirjK so 'too ——
wi'Hfoaf' A
(w)r^
we »?oT'
AN INTERCEPTED - FUTTIN<V’
Violet Town, Tuesday.
Considerable excitement was created at the
railway station last evening at the time the
t> o clock train arrived (from Benalla, when
Mrs. Copeman. an elderly lady, anxiously
shouto 1 to the .station-master to keep the
train until she could secure her daughter,
aged 18, from the company of a young man,
whom she charged with being the abductor
of the girl, having induced her to leave her
home ai Baddaginnie The young lady re-
turned home through th- joint persuasion [of
the .mother and police.*
S v
d?»a 3ub s rJ o isl S“ rfo t
on
TREATMENT of returned ,
SOLDIERS.
TO THE EDITOR OR THE AGE.
Sir, you allow me space to call the
attention of the public to the very serious
condition of the unemployed returned soldierß
—a condition which is more serious than is
generally known. At a meeting held this
week some very unfavorable revelations were
made, several of the men stating that
although they had been home from South
Africa for three months, amounts varying
up to .€5O are still owing to them, repeated
application having been made
for the amount.
A .JUDGE’S SOLICITUDE
PRISONER OFFERED CHOICE
OF GAOLS
COMFORT OR CONVENIENCE.
In The charge of stealing wearing apparel
brought against Harold Serkoff, a Russian,
Mr. •Justice Williams, to the interpreter,
said . “ Ask him what gaol he would like to
go to. Melbourne or Castlemaine. Tell him
that the Castlemaine gaol is a better-class
gaol than the other, but Melbourne may be
more convenient for him.”
\n Vic Dje tublic Y ' J\|
totaj over \ r l\v|
ber itjtfje nr>»<lst" o{- \
1 //VetVenctjnjenTl
TfSV / f r^TT
/j / / Ke»n4i-tj utjiouc^cl
°f
jf +^5 r
jkg Vidor'An fovi' w< vj
. r 0 s? r f ron?
\'d x js
Jj |fi|
t^H
Vic WorK 1 i
Will $
m joi* c*'" 11
■ltt
|S«| \\
— '
r aV)
| sV«e!s (rc§v<*'«»£ .\y
/Com|>k«nT (|l \_
l
to fyac/e \ cut" you.
JfWowJrS*
. M' \t f ;
f 4fe^ei9^>r^rs^ip«
< ~ An ever recCr«n£ in H>« “*7 *, % Jr
Xmepoo*' : —1 u*e<l "to
i<ieas 4/e -Hosf>>t*>l
for'
fjtje Sb'el^AdAnce^S^V^-
M^niC'paj EpdowtyenT'
({100,000 per by £50,0q0
especially fouolr/
Sfyiees fl?e nurfer#) of Ky^brJkn,
Civil W c keen retarded
asy) zyer'aszg oj- fc percent
S j (puotvsf fyinici|>\l fnp
’ /(ottijciUor ‘- 0!}
/ CU'ttl
5o |)ck cco'T I
afs lovely Ky<\br^nj.
MELBOURNIANA.


A. SAUNDERS’
WATCHES, CLOCKS. JEWELLERY, &SILVERPLATE AT FREETRADE PRICES.
SAVE 25 TO 50 PER CENT. SHOWROOMS: 815 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
jfYs,
f
98
KM
win
► -n
c^gf
m
m
r,Mr
&:s
.TSs?sv,
MM
gtM
$
«538
DS
«•>»
35*3
mm
*&&
m
€§fi
c*^
«“*
fe-
v*
33
A. SAUNDERS.
A NICE LADIES’ PRESENT.
2 Pure Silver Brushes, Comb, and 9 Pieces Manicure anc
lifts, £l los. Posted anywhere free from duty.
.ST\y
Jewel Case.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lovely Chafed, Curved, and Ornamented Silk-
lined, 22s 6d. Useful present.
A. SAUNDERS.
Four o’clock CAKE FORKS, Pure Silver-plated, on
Hard White Metal, 20s : similar style, 12s 6d
A bargain.
, p
Ladies’ Pure Solid Silver Work Box and Jewel Case,
Handsomely Carved and Chased, £8 ss.
A. SAUNDERS
Gent’s Full-sized Shaving Set, Bilver-mounted, £3 •
similar styles, £2los. £2 15s, and £3. A nice present!
Child's Silver-plated CUP, 12s 6d, 15s,
£l, and 255.
Pure
Silver-mounted.
7s (id.
FLASKS,
Silver-plated, 10s,
12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
Jt Jr CU&?v<le*4. W
LONDON 5c SYDNEY jj
A. SAUNDERS.
Cake or Dessert Knives and Forks, Handsomely Carved Ivory Handles in
Silk and Velvet-lined Case, £4. A. handsome present.
Child’s Pure Silver
Battle, Pearl Handle,
3' in. lona - , 6s 6d. 8s
Pare Silver Thimbles,
Gold-mounted, 4s 6d.
Other styles, Is 6d,
2s Cd, and 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
2 Pure Silver Gent.’s Brushes, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
beautiful Silk Case, A useful present.
: : hr
ami m
Ladies’ or Gent.’s Travelling ROLLS, 30s ; similar 10s 6d,
12s Gd, 15s, 20s, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ HAIR BRUSH,
Pure Silver Chased,
20s, 255, 80s.
Splendid value.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ MIRROR,
Pare Solid Silver, Nicely
Chased, 30s, 355, £2,
£2 10s.
Ladies' Latest PUESE and WALLET,
with Strap, 10s 6d, 12s (3d, without
strap, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s.
Si'?
£SB
; t;.
Sm
m
m
m.
m
Hand Made Pure Solid Silver CIGARETTE CASE, Beautifully Chased, Extra Heavy Cases, Gold
Plated Inside, with Silk-lined Case, 30s ; other styles 355, £2, £2 10s.
Gold PENCILS, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s, £2 ; Silver 3s 6d, 4s 6d. 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s.
s
[His
little pig •
&MJH.T TO MA
A. SAUNDERS.
Child’s SPOON, Solid Silver Chased, 7s 6d. The Very Latest and Newest Designs.
A. SAUNDERS.
Cigar and Cigarette HOLDER, Pure Silver,
6s 6d and 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver GLOVE HOOK,
Is 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Swan PIN;
7s 6d. *
lIS
~• - ' •** '"‘^^s:t* : iigs.
T ~ A. SAUNDERS.
La fieB Pure Solid Silver Toilet Case, 2 Pure Silver Brushes, Comb,
and Mirror, in handsome case, £7 10s. Posted anywhere duty tree
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Pure Solid Silver CHILD’S SET, in Silk lined
Case, Brush, Puff Box, Rattle, and Comb, £3 3s.
, A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, Puie MJver, in Silk-lined Ca>e, 30s
EREETRADE PRICES. NO ADVANCE.
MANICURE SET, Pure Silver Mounts, 25s ; Cheaper lines
10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Cigarette CASE. Pure Silver Cor-
ners and Shield, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Cigars similar, same price.
HAT PINS, Pure Solid
Silver, Is 6d ; stone set,
3s 6d, 4s 6d.
Ladies’ Smelling Salts BOT FEES,
Silver Tops, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 6s 6d,
7s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
Silver-plated CALENDAR, Very Neat
17s t>d.
A. SAUNDERS,
JE3WELLEIH and 811-VESRSMITH.
A BEAUTIFUL DISPLAY OF PRESENTS,
Mind, 815 GEORG E-STREET.
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY


[fto'eo®*
Four Crown
mm*
M.
um
'K •
'A'-
CORSETS.
■ ♦
The Recognised Standard
HIGH-GLASS CORSETS
»
LATEST SPECIALTY
Straight Front
Erect Form.
Obtainable from Leading Drapers
Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that each
pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade Mark” on
band inside, as above.
m
tT u:
mmm
S&C oSU
GENERAL
ELECTRIC
COmPANT.
Capital - - - £5,250,000.
Manufactures the Highest Grade of
Electrical Machinery.
THEIR NAME IS A GUARANTEE.
Dynamos, Engines and Motors up to 250 H.P. in Stock.
Lighting and Power Plants for Immediate Delivery.
Arc and Incandescent Lamps and Supplies of all kinds.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.,
Electrical Engineers and Contractors,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, Melbourne and Sydney.
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head aches <fc all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTER'S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“Ab a specific for Tooth ache it lias no equal. I have
used it successfully for years."—Prof. \V Wii.son, MB,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYES WORSDELL’S FILLS
Area certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation,Liver and Kidney Complaints, &c.
Of all Stores.
m
m
35 YEARS PROVEN EFFICACY.
3**l
Vcss®
1 •. I V
yj i
UJ\©
\m\fe ■
z
rJ I
t»» o *
iflS ee
i
F 'i* (HEMISIS |
throughout OffEAT Bsi f/WiV 4tin COLOMtS
V* ; ■ —
Pi U S IWt'VfcytoMi
mi
CANT YOU BREATHE
freely ? Have you to sit up in bed gasping for
breath? If so, you are only one of a countless
number whose lives are made a burden to them by
ASTHMA.
If you wish to rest again at night, and breathe
with head erect by day, send ss. to NEWHAM
WATERWORTH, Edward-st., Brisbane,
who will forward post free a sample bottle of a
New Remedy for Asthma, a few doses of which
will prove to you that life is still worth living.
I CUBE
VARICOCELE,
PREVENT PARALYSIS,
And Restore the
NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Every man who has Varicocele recognises,
by evidences which are unmistakable, that
he is physically and mentally below par. It
is impossible that the self-generated toxins,
formed in the sluggish blood currents of
neglected Varicocele, should be absorbed
into nerve matter without producing morbid
conditions that affect the entire organism.
Varicocele is unquestionably the cause
of thousands of business and social failures,
because it strikes at the very seat and centre
of physical and mental power —the nervous
system.
My treatment not only cures the Vari-
cocele, but gives back strength of body
and brain. It gives to a man the reserve
power that is the prerequisite of all success.
I seek cases where all else has failed.
Young, middle-aged, and old men can
recover the same degree of health,
strength, and energy experienced in
former years by consulting
PROFESSOR READ,
who has restored thousands of sufferers to
vigorous health.
DO ANY OF THE FOLLOWINO
SYMPTOMS OR CLASS OF SYMP-
TOMS MEET YOUR CONDITION:—
Do you feel nervous debilitated, fretful, timid,
and lack the power of will and action? Ate you
subject to loss of memory, feel listless, mopirg, unfit
for business or pleasure, and subject to fits of
melancholy? Are your kidneys, stomach, urinary
organs, liver or blood in a disordered condition?
Have you lost confidence in yourself and energ> for
business pursuits? Ate you subject ft> rest’ets
nights, broken sleep, dreams, palpitation of the
heart, confusion of ideas aversion to society, dim-
ness of eight, pimples on the face and back, and other
desponding symptoms?
If you are afflicted, why further neglect
your health when by a single consultation
(which costs nothing) you can be placed on
the way to health, strength, and vigor?
All correspondence held sacred. A speedy
and perfect life cure is guaranteed in all
cases I undertake, where doubt exists the
sufferer is frankly informed.
I CANNOT TELL YOU ALL
I desire in this announcement, therefore I
invite every man who is interested to write
me fully and freely, describing his case, and
I will advise him the best course to pursue.
My new book, which I send free
(six stamps to cover postage should be en-
closed), describes in detail my special
methods of curing the diseases to
which 1 limit my practice.
No premises made that age, integrity, and
long experience do not justify.
Address : Prof. H. READ,
*65 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNL
A great many
people warrt.
long,
heavy
hair, but
how to
get it,
that is
what puzzles ,
them. The \
fact is, the
hair needs a
little help
now and then.
The roots re-
quire feeding.
u
2
m.
?r
4§|
When the hair is starved, it stops
growing, loses its lustre, falls out,
turns gray. Ayer’s Hair Vigor is a
hair-help. It makes the hair grow,
stops it from falling, and completely
cures dandruff.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
If your hair is fading or turning
gray, begin at once with Ayer’s Hair
Vigor. It will positively restore color
to your gray hair, all the full, rich
color it had in early life.
As a hair-dressing you will certainly
like it, for it keeps the hair soft and
glossy and prevents it from splitting
at the ends.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita»
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
ISkins Soft&White
BY USING
kv~h
Health
Complexions Preserved.
Business Announcements.
o
p
p
o
s
I
T
E
G
P
6
o o
p
A
T
T
E
R
N
S
F
R
E
E
Necessity
of Life.
We are
Artists
in
Tailoring,
LONDON TAILORING DEPOT,
ME,LB. F, S. Meyen, Manager,
I’ll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Qapillarine
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result.
CRAIG & AITKEN, N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House, 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A GIFT for the LADIES.
'Mi
Graceful and
becoming- for Young
or Old.
Ostrich
Tips.
5/i
Tub Bunch,
Worth 10/6.
TWO VERY SUPERIOR TITS, with
OSPR E YS, in. B 1 ack , Whi t e or 0 ream.
Post Free. Send Postal Notes.
Miller’s Feather Shop
Corner Bourke & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Mention Tub Bulletin.
SUNPROOF...
INDI6O SERIES
. . AND . .
TU/FFIX -
To stand Hard Wear.
Faocy Worsted SOitiQgS
(Bannockburns and Homespuns).
David Braham & Co.,
TAILORS & OUTFITTERS
73 & 75 KING ST., SYDNEY
(round A. J.S. Bank corner). '
SOLE AGENTS in N.S.W. for
SRTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR SHIRTS . . .
iVhite or Colored Shirts, made to order, from 56.


'
G-O TO HBLL-
KiOLANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
HATS. RATS. HATS:
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
SUueto B. Mountcastle & Sons,
jBR.ISBA.3XTB.
A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
A most useful Yeterinary Book is attached
to every bottle of Gondy’s Fluid. This Book
contains instructions for curing most of the
ailments and accidents affecting Horses,
Dogs, Sheep, Cattle and Poultry.
In this Book eminent Veterinary Sur-
geons recommend Condy’s Fluid as a
certain cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
Broken Knees, Grease, Thrush and
Cracked Heels in Horses.—Scab, Foot
Eot, Fly, etc., in Sheep.—Hoove, Foul in
the Foot, Wounds and Sores in Cattle.
Condy’s Fluid is made by Condy &
Mitchell, Ltd., of 65, Goswell Road,
London, England, and is sold by all
Chemists and Stores., Beware of Colonial
substitutes. Insist on having CondysFluid.
u
D.C
L
K
V
s
H
W
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO., 88 King-st.,
SYDNEY.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dm 83 away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
POLITICAL
POINTS
The permanent garrison of ‘ ‘ conquered ”
S’Africa is to be 60,000 of all arms, or double the
number sent to the Crimea from first to last.
One theory about the High Commissioner-
ship is that Premier Barton is surveying things
in London and considering how the billet would
fit himself.
Said that Mr. James Ashton’s motion on
the fodder duties, in N.S.W. Assembly, repre-
sented a bid on his part for the leadership of the
Opposition.
Poor old Solemn Lee, leader of N.S.W.
Opposition ! H</ has cause to be solemn. He can’t
take to his bed for a few days with a cold but
there is at once a rumor that he is about to resign
his leadership, and hungry eyes are cast on his
sick room.
From the Gulf :
Does The Bulletin know that the Chows intend to pour
Into the Commonwealth from Port Darwin, via Camoo-
weal, and Burketown, and that already batches of them
have come through ? Reason is, lam told, that Queens-
land Govt, finds it too expensive to hold them in check
on the border and quod them when they try to slip over,
so the poll-tax is suspended. As The Bulletin is the
“ White Australia ” paper, and it was the N.Q. electors
that put Queensland into the Federation, perhaps you
will draw public attention to this important matter.
A CORONATION INCIDENT .
1ST COACHIE (in the crush, to another coachie
who has also got the Royal livery): "'Ullo,
Tom. You on this gime, too? What sort of a
nigger ’ave you got to drive? ”
2ND COACHIE: “Not my luck; hain't got a black
swell at all, only a blanky Horstralian.”
Victorian public servants are growling
about a reduction which touches nobody under
£ 125, and up to £l5O to the tune of only 3 per cent.
What do they say to the Queensland retrenchment,
under which only £lOO exemption is allowed, and
incomes over that pay per cent, to the revenue ?
What reception would the Commonwealth
Parliament give a motion specifying that in all
matters relating to subsidies to squadrons, salaries
to Governors-General, and such like, despatches
from the Imperial Government shall be laid on
the table before the questions concerned are
debated ?
Maoriland Lands Minister Duncan told
the Farmers’ Union that he had tried to induce
his colleagues to borrow £3,000,000 to make roads
for the benefit of the farmers, but they were un-
decided on the point. Even the suggestion, how-
ever, shows how the borrowing boom is rising in
Maoriland.
John Bull is quite feminine in his
caprices; a year ago the Boers were getting all
his abuse and the Australians all his marmalade.
Now the King runs after the Boer leaders, and
the Australians, it is argued, are so filthy a lot
that they can’t travel on a transport without
causing an epidemic.
“Ramp” : A practical railway man who
is an ardent admirer of Q. Minister for Railways
Leahy informs me that in many parts of the North
Coast line between Brisbane and Maryborough
you can pull the dog-spikes out of the sleepers
with your fingers! Some day the rails will spread
and then the writs will come along.
Premier Philp recently :
The country is suffering from unprecedented party
politics, which should be dropped, and all should pull
together to lift the State out of its troubles.
T’other day Q. Labor party took Philp’s advice
and gave him a hand with his income-tax against
the Govt, discontents—and neither he nor his
Ministers looked either grateful or happy.
Anomalies of Tas. Treasurer Bird’s house-
cwm-income-tax proposals. A Hobart alderman
lives in a house assessed at £4O, has an income of
at least £5OOO, and will be taxed on the basis of
an income of £270. A Hobart pressman lives in
a house assessed at £6O, has an income of £2OO or
so, and will be taxed on the basis of an income of
£490.
Commonwealth Executive soundly, if
tardily, decides to charge the same telegraphic
rates for Ministers’ as for other political speeches.
The arrangement which, for instance, let Deakin’s
speech through to Brisbane at Is. 6d. for the first
100 words, and Is. per 100 after, while charging
M ‘Millan’s 4s. 6d. for the first hundred, was in-
defensible.
The suspension-of-the-fodder-duties cry
grows more farcical with each development.
N.S.W. Premier John See having offered to im-
port, as a Govt, enterprise, fodder from abroad
(when no duty would need to be paid) the Cob-
denites still squeal discontentedly. It’s not duty-
free fodder they want, but the chance to discredit
the Federal tariff.
Mr. Seddon is credited by Review of
Reviews Stead with the desire to be first Premier
of United S’Africa. The absurdity of it! That
first Premier will have to be a person more or less
acceptable to the Dutch population, which pre-
dominates in Cape Colony, not a mad howler for
Boer blood. And Bun Tuck would have to work
in S’African politics, anyhow, for years ere he
could get a show, whatever his views. No ! Mr.
Richard Seddon is after something much softer
than that.
The glad news comes from South Australia
that Private Enterprise is willing to build a grav-
ing dock at Port Adelaide, on
condition that in any year
when the profits are less than
per cent, on capital the
State pays enough to make
them up to 3J per cent.; that
when there is a loss the State
stands the loss and pays the
per cent.; and that when
the profits are more than 3J
percent. Private Enterprise
keeps the lot. And this
Bort of thing calls itself
Private Enterprise!
The lately-proposed
Junction of the two Houses
in Tasmania resembles
closely a N.S.W. consti-
tutional device of 70 years
ago. Numerous theories
were then discussed.
Wentworth fathered three
or four on his own account,
and he was esteemed a
poor politician who had
not at least one to his
i credit. The Patriotic As-
sociation of the period ex-
haustively considered most
of them, and in a public
meeting in Sydney in 1835
inclined to a junction of two
Houses into one body, to num-
ber 50 members, 10 of them to
be Government nominees like
the present Leg. Council. No-
thing was done, however, and it
took another 20 years to reach the
bicameral system with which Re-
sponsible Government opened.
The shearers’ strike has dis-
closed the fact that that queerly-constituted body,
the N.S.W. Labor Bureau, has spent £86,463 on
free passes to laborers for the country, and has, to
date, received back as refunds only £28,471. When
power was given the Bureau to issue those passes
rt was on the understanding that employers would
deduct the money out of wages and pay it back.
Have the laborers stuck to that £50,000 or have
the employers stuck to it ? And why did not the
Bureau make some effort to recover ?
If the threatened Victorian railway-strike
had eventuated it is considered possible that jbhe
Irvine-Shiels-Tommy Bent Government would
have dissolved Parliament and gone nobly and
fearlessly to the country to ask for an endorse-
ment of its “firm attitude.” And the Factories
Act, which dies at the close of this session, would
have perished comfortably in the confusion.
The Boer Generals have been greeted
with exuberant enthusiasm in London:
This trait should make the papers glad,
We chased the little Boers about,
And having stolen-all they had,
And put their ragged bands to rout,
With kindling hearts, from sweep to King,
We now.forgive them everything !
“ Demos ” writes : .
It would prove very instructive if some Vic. Labor
member were to Call for a return of the sums of money
paid by parents of children for school requisites of all
kinds in an average three months in Melbourne State
schools. The totals would open the eyes of many who
cherish delusions about the “ freeness ” of the system of
“ free education.” It is alleged that teachers occasionally
compel compliance with their demands by alluding to
children who are unable to get these requisites as
“ paupers.”
General Hutton struck an awkward snag
when h<? gave out his costly “schools of instruc-
tion” scheme without Minister Bill Lyne’s
sanction. He afterwards explained that when he
published the scheme he was under the impression
that it had received Ministerial approval, and that
“he had been misled by a telephone message.”
General Hutton’s luck is clean out lately : he has
to provide an awkward explanation on an average
twice a week.
Senator Walker has returned from
America , .
greatly struck with the good feeling that existed
towards Great Britain. # .
Doubtless that good feeling does exist in
the American circles in which Senator
Walker moved; just as in the Australian
circles in which Senator Walker now moves
there will be a general approval of his action
in running away from his Senatorial duties
for some months at a most important period.
But in neither case is public i opinion reflected
by Senator Walker’s circle. The Yankee
papers are, almost without exception, hos-
tile to England or contemptuously pat-
ronising towards her; and they represent
the genuine U.S.A. opinion.
Governments that howl for paltry
reductions in the petty salaries of employees
and let a tax on betting machinery go by
the board are quacks in the business of their
calling. Maoriland made £17,500 last year
out of a tax onbetting, and whom did it
hurt ? France makes hundreds of thousands
out of the tax. Victoria should be able to
make at least £40,000 by a tote and a
reasonably-heavy tote-tax.
Labor member W. G. Spence pleaded
hard in the Reps., during the discussion of
the duties on vegetables, for the pastoralists
of N.S. Wales, and showed in harrowing
terms how hard-up they were on account of
the drought. Spence is also boss organiser
of the Shearers’ Union, which is demanding
from said pastoralists an increase of 12$ per
cent, on the shearing rates.
Q. Govt, had, perforce, to drop its
scheme for taxing civil servants, with less
than £lOO salary, to the tune of 5 per cent.
But now comes the income-tax, and the Q.
Govt, (which touches nothing that it does
not adorn) has interpolated a poll-tax of £1 on all
men with incomes under £lOO. The Q. unem-
ployed can now be set to work collecting the
poll-tax one from the other.
“ Kiwi ” from Maoriland :
A surprise in local matters political |s Acting-Premier
Ward’s successful leadership—surprising especially to
those who honestly believed thatnoman could possibly take
the place of King Seddon. Seddon’s mana has dwindled
severely. Ward’s tactful leadership, coupled with the woe-
ful collapse of the audacious attempts to drag the self-
governing States into the military madness that passes
for genuine Imperialism, and the no less ignoble break-
down of the much-advertised Customs Union, have shown
plainly, even to the Premier’s most ardent admirers, that
he is, after all, a small man when he gets among really
big things.
Boyd, member for Melbourne City, made
one strong point in his speech on the Vic. Re-
trenchment Bills. He showed that the Credit
Foncier, which cuts its valuations very low, values
the taxable lands of the State (averaging from
many advances made) at £7,875,000 over the muni-
cipal valuations. “ If,” said he “ shires were to
practise a little common honesty in their valua-
tions they would be £393,750 better off, and the
Govt, subsidy could be done away with.” Also,
said subsidy would go far towards annihilating the
deficit.
Tasmania’s Parliament spends a large part
of its time talking hazily about Tattersall without
coming to any definite conclusion, and the other
day M‘Call, M.H.R., grew tired. He proposed
that, at next election, a referendum should be
taken as to whether the State approved of
Tattersall, and, if it approved, whether it pre-
ferred that the Government should take over the
business. This proposal to do something definite
about the misty grievance shocked everybody,
and M’Call’s proposal was rejected by more than
two to one.
Vic. Public Service Committee, after
climbing down and submitting to the magnitude
and magnificence of Bent, actually carried a re-
solution congratulating “ Tommy ” on “ his appre-
ciation of the gravity of the situation and the
firmness, care and ability with which he has
averted the disastrous consequences of a threatened
strike ! ” The Vic. public servants have discovered
the policy of turning the other cheek. There
were many hard names for the talented and
courteous minister when the trouble was brewing,
but he is now found to have a winning way with
him.
To prove how little the N.S.W. suspension-
of-the-fodder-duties’ people know what they are
really driving at, Premier See has published
figures showing thgt, for seven months past, the
duties collected on “fodder” hardly averaged
£lOOO a month for the whole State. Further, a
member last week asked Premier See to take
steps to prevent the large exportations of produce
now going on in N.S.W., instancing one shipment
of 30,000 bags. Queer that the suspension-of-
duties crowd, who generally deprecate Govt,
interference with the sacred rights of private
enterprise, are now the first to claim the State’s
protection.
Ex-Premier Peacock publicly avows that,
it he is to boss Vic. politics again, Trenwith will
be the first man to be taken into his Ministry.
Peacock would revel in the chance of getting back
in this way upon David Syme for smashing him
up, and there is little doubt that two of the Age
proprietor’s friends, M'Culloch and Wynne, would
be left out—the former as a hopeless old muddler,
and the tricky Wynne for his shameless abandon-
ment of the Factories Act directly he got out of
office. It would only need the throwing over of
Syme’s other pal, “ Sam ” Gillott, and the inclu-
sion of Prendergast, or some other plain-speaking
person, to fill David’s cup with wormwood.
There was a gushing women’s demonstra-
tion to Bill Lyne at Sydney last Saturday—
announced as from N.S.W. Womanhood Suffrage
League, but really representing “ the other cat.”
Enfranchised woman in N.S.W. is broken up
into two camps whose bitter mutual animosity
gives great promise of a lovely scratching-match
before next general election. It was the Women’s
Progressive Association which shed tears of
gratitude over Bill’s hand on Saturday. The
THE BENEFITS OF CIVILISATION.
HIM: “I'm going round to the club for half-an-
hour. If I'm not back by ten —”
HER: "I’ll ring you up!”
genuine trade-mark, name-blown-in-the-bottle
womanhood suffragists intend shortly to enthuse
over Premier John See; woman doesn’t find that
the franchise makes her able to dispense with a
male hero for worship.
In collecting her income-tax, South Aus-
tralia always has distinguished between incomes
from personal exertion and incomes from property.
She began in ’B4 with 3d. on the one and 6d. on
the other; sprang them to 4M. and 9d. in ’93;
and to 6d. and Is. in ’94. Began next to dis-
tinguish also between fat incomes (£BOO and over)
and lean ones in ’95, by collecting 4£d. from the
one and 6d. from the other when derived from
personal exertion, and 9d. and Is. respectively
when derived from property; and now her
Jenkins proposes and 7d. in the one case,
and 10£d. and Is. ljd. in the other. But even
this very top-notch tax of Is. 1,4 d. is a halfpenny
short of the all-round tax in England.
The Owe’Sullivan on the latest Sydney
tramway extension to La Perouse:—
The total cost of the loop is given as £13,569 7S. 6d. Mr.
O’Sullivan, however, points out that it has practically
paid for its construction, inasmuch as it has rendered
possible a saving of eight shillings per thousand on two
million bricks in connection with the penitentiary
buildings now in course of erection, and also afforded an
economical means of transit for the great number of
coffins which were removed to the La Verouse Cemetery
from Devonshire-street.
This story about how the new tram has paid for
itself has just one drawback —the same old in-
variable drawback. The tramway isn’t paid for.
If it has paid for itself then somebody has inter-
cepted and embezzled the money, as per usual.
The unspeakable meanness of the pre-
sent Tory Government in Melbourne! Its re-
duction-of-wages scheme includes public servants
getting as little as £125 a year. Now it employs
casual printers at Bs. a day. If they were employed
all the year, which they are not, including Xmas,
New Year’s Day, Good Friday, etc.—when the
Govt, offices are closed and they are not allowed
to work—they would get £125 4s. per annum—4s. a
year over the limit at which retrenchment begins.
Not being allowed to work on Xmas and Good
Friday they can’t make £125. But the Irvine
Government reckons them as employees receiving
ver £125 per annum, and docks them of 3 per
°ent. !
Sydney morning papers are fighting so
fiercely for the right to send their bundles free by
rail that one would think there was “ millions in
it.” As a matter of fact they are only asked to
find £2500 a year between them; and as the
passage of the Federal postal laws will shortly put
the matter on a definite (and a paying) basis the
whole sum at issue is probably not more than
£1250—£625 each. Over that sum each paper is
squealing at the rate of 16 columns or so a week,
which is surely bad business. A newspaper
column ought to be worth about £10; and the
space devoted to verbatim reports of the select
committee inquiry on the subject is, so far as
public interest is concerned, absolutely thrown
away.
Curious par. from a Sydney D.T. article
(23/8/’O2) discussing the urgent need for water-
pipes for the Sydney supply :
To ask pipe manufacturers, however, to construct 13
miles of pipes in less than six months’ time, and with not
a twentieth part of the material in the State to execute
the order, shows once again how necessary it is to have
in the States—to meet such-a grave emergency as this-
smelting works and plate-rolling mills, such as it is urged
might have been established had not the Bonus Bill been
thrown out.
And only three months ago the D.T. shrieked its
loudest against the Bonus Bill which would have
made “necessary provision for such grave emer-
gencies.” Is the D.T. going to change its coat, or
do occasional fiscal truths creep into its columns
merely by accident ?
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N. S. Wales : Sayers,
Allport and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W,
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
Harry Morant and his' sorry fate, told of
in “ Bushman and Buccaneer” (now in its second
edition). The history of the Breaker and his
verses and letters, including photo, reproduction
of the Petersburg gaol MS. Price one shilling.
Wholesale from Edwards, Dunlop and Co. Retail
from all booksellers and Bulletin office (post
free Is. Id.)


67>e * (®6e Genuine)
LIPP PIANO.
U/je LIPP PIANOS are tlie lead*
ing Pianos of German
Manufacture. They Have
been in use all over Aus-
tralia for over 40 years—
long' enough to prove tbeir
merits.
PLEASE
NOTE.
Lipp Pianos Have been imi-
tated. If yon want the
Genuine Lipp, you can pro-
cure same only at Paling’s.
We stocK five models of these
Celebrated Pianos.
Please remember we are the
absolute Sole Agents.
Old Pianos taKen in Exchange.
New Pianos Sold on Easy' Terms.
Catalogues Free.
W. H. Paling' (& Co., Ltd.
338 GEORGE: ST., SYDNEY.
PALING’S (Patented)
VICTOR PIANOS.
Victor Pianos are specially
made to our order, designed
and patented by us, Known as
Victor I, Vidtor 11, and
®6e New Vidor Upright
Grand (with 3 pedals).
These Pianos at the price are the
best value obtainable,
tone is full and rich, touch
excellent, handsome cases,
and durability guaranteed.
If you want a good grade Piano
at a moderate cost
BUY A VICTOR.
That’s the Piano you want.
* *
Old Pianos taKen in Exchange.
New Pianos Sold on Easy Terms.
Catalogues Free.
W. H. Paling' Co., Ltd.,
338 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Bladder Troubles cured
VITADATIO
Read Mr. O’Connor’s Testimony.
Venetian, Kennedy Street, Glebe Point,
9th April, 1900.
Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir, —You will be glad to know of the cure your
medicine, VITADATIO, has worked on me. About 12
months ago I was attacked with inflammation of the
Bladder. For eight months I was under the treatment
of three of the Sydney doctors, but their efforts failed to
cure me. In November last I commenced taking VITA-
DATIO, and in less than two months I was thoroughly
cured. I have had no trouble since then.
I trust this letter will be of use to you, and induce
others to try VITADATIO.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) S. W. O’CONNOR.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER ,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The Price of Medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
BUSHMAN WATCH
m
Charles Read l-C?
CEQPG'e 5 T SYDNEY
IN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade— viz., the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
9ct. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0, or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, 15ct.
gold, filled, Bs. 6d. Illustrated catalogues sent free]
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address —
COLE'S BOOK ARCADE, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA
“Bells at Sunset.”
This charming composition for the Piano by
W S. ROCKSTRO, is now in stock, and can >e
supplied by all Music Dealers.
W. PAXTON & CO., Publishers,
London, Melbourne,
The DAISY SERIES of Pianoforte Albums. The most
popular books for young players ever published.
Publications.
N€W SON(S_
V
x#pl
i
i
pfi
■
A "iTJ
Author or
_ _ "Mm* mi B»u-
Tkfteli Cain ImfhitM m/tua jo MmmK
—“ Price 2Jm
Allan & Co. Prop. Ltd,
Melbournb •
Read the Words :
If You Please, Miss, Give Me Heaven.
“ Papa, I’m so sad and lonely,”
Sobbed a tearful little child ;
“ Since dear mamma’s gone to Heaven,
Pa,pa, darling, you’ve not smiled.
I will speak to her and tell her
That we want her to come home;
Just you listen, and I’ll call her
Through the telephone:
Chorus—
“ l£ you please, Miss, give me Heaven—for my Mamma’s
there;
You can find her with the angels on the golden stair.
She’ll be glad it’s me who’s speaking—call her, won’t you
please, J ’
For I want to surely tell her we’re so lonely here.”
When the girl received this message, s
Coming o’er the telephone,
How her heart thrilled in that moment,
And the wires seemed to moan ;
“ I will answer, just to please her:
‘ Yes, dear heart, I’ll soon come home.’ ”
“ Kiss me, Mamma, kiss your darling,
Through the telephone.”
Chorus— “ If you please, Miss," etc.
+
44
K, ##
276-278 COLLINS-ST.,
PROP., Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos.
6s. P.O.C. or stamps.
S. RECKNACEL NfICHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Germany.
jf|FFERS WANTED for a Complete File of The Bulletin
w from 1883 to October, 1899. Apply, W. D. PONDER
Advertising Agent, Adelaide. ’
OUR NEW
COLLARETTE
SHOE
BY POST
We put
Quality
First,—
Price
Next.
v :; i
to any Address
in these States
FROM A
PHOTOGRAPH.
NO RISK
AS TO FIT!
We expect to sell Shoes to any lady
whose experience has told her what
a good Shoe means that it means
Economy, Comfort, and Satisfaction. The
quality and style of the Callaghan Collarette
Shoe quite j ustifies our expectation. This picture
gives a fair idea of the Shoe; but you’ll only fully
appreciate its real worth when you handle your
first pair.
12/11
POST FREE
DUTY FREE
13/6.
f AMERICAN GLACE KID SHOE for
-{ LADIES, with Dressy Patent Leather
Toe-Cap, and new fashioned Collarette.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS./
WE
c#»
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
isr.srvv.
fllent deplete D.*l I. Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
'—THE—.
Colonial Mutual Life
assurance society limited,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - • 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F Burns, Chairman ; Hon. O. J. Robhrts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299— assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses— enuitably distributed.
Head Office:
#l9 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of florth Queensland
LIMIT HI).
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
j p canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... ••• *700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share- „„„
holders 250.900 ... *350.000
The
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITED.
PAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. •• •• *• £-451,307
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 181.859
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 56,000
£689,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
THE
Qm tniiTimt LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
Established 187 S.
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection HUNTER, BLIGH and CASTLEREAGH
STREETS, SYDNEY.
The CITY MUTUAL LIFE is generally
recognised as the most liberal and pro-
gressive institution of its kind in Austra-
lasia. It retains on its books a larger
proportion of business than any other
Life Office doing business in these States.
GEO. CROWLEY,
General Manager.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
-ptJYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap, ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street. Melbourne.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. htd. of Tjondon
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.O. (Gibbs,
Bright & Oo.), Hon. John See, Lt.-001. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlank ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar.
j. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. £2,500,000^
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
SUpplng.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, August 30, 2 p.m.
Buninyong, Tues., Sept. 2, 5 p.ru.
Tyrian, Saturday, Sept. 6, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., Sept 2, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong, Tues., Sept. 2, 5 p.m.
(No Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Burrumbeet, Sat., Aug. 30, 2 p.m.
Burwah, Tuesday, Sept. 2, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 6, 2 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Burrumbeet, Sat., Aug. 30, 2 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 6, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked fchrouirh.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot of King-street.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
SUEVIC, to Sail on or about 19th SEPTEMBER.
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIC, and AERIC
to follow.
FARES—Capetown # .
London
New York, &c.
£l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
19 0 0 to 27 0 0
25 2 6 to 33 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Kuddart, Parker & Co’s tine
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Pares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
a: mite
ajxcv
via
San Francisco,
California.
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-SOREW STEAMERS,
SIERRA
SONOMA
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P.
Length, 425 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., IT'D.
BURNS, PHILP & 00., LTD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund.. ..
Reserve Liability ..
.. 2,000,000 0 0
.. 1,285,000 0 0
.. 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,285,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Chas. K. Mackellar, M.L.C., President
Richard Binnib, Esq. „ _ _
The Hon. Sir Norm and MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Auditors:
A. G. Milson, Esq. Harrington Palmer, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
Tie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf m
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business. , , _
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
4av©^ s * s
i’S
Oft
t« ca ’ J ‘ , e t*w°
_ A c^ YeS
5!~ S “'"■
C 0^ a ._ t \otvS-
\tw'
id
Made of the Best Natural Curly Hair,
i from 3s. 6d., ss. 6d., 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d.
> to 10s. 6d.each. |
iw. H. WIGZEU.I
JTQ WILLIAM STREET, j
PLAITS §YDNEY ' TAILS
feoin. long, 6s, 64,1 SOio-, extra thick,
!7s. 6d.
22in., 10«. 6d.; 22in., extra thick, 12s. 6d.
24iu., 15s. 6d.; 24in., extra thick, 18s, 64,
26ia„ 205.; 26ip., extra thick, 255.
28in, 305.; 30in„ 35e-i 30ia., extra thick, 40s.
Our PlaJts and Tails are twice as thick as
those sold elsewhere for the same money.
WIGS MADE TO ORDER. '
UAIRYTORTC Id OTEEB. STATES.
TIME TABLE.
THREE-WEEKLY BERVICE.
KT. ID. L.
(NORD-DEUTSOHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
Interstate First Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN, 3rd SEPTEMBER,
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to ttie Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
SPECIAL
ROUNP THE WORLP
TOURS.
Saloon: £7l to £l3O.
STEAMERS SAIL:
Sept. 8, Oct. 6, Nov. 3.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
• Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
RUPTURE
CURED
without
operation or pain,
Throw away
your Truss.
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
i SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., ENG.,
Cor Russell & Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE
UIMSELFCURED
Mr. Robert E.
PARKHURST
■ ■ of Pitt St., Sydn y, says if any sutl'erer lrom DEBILITY,
KIDNEY or BLADDER DISEASE will write him he will inform
them of the perfect home cure that did the work in his case.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMBHIPCO:
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOB MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Allinga,
Friday, August 29.
S.S. Wollowra,
Saturday, August 30.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Adelaide, Sat., Aug. 30.
S.S. Allinga, Friday, Sept. 5.
S.S. Innamincka, Saturday,
September 13.
Best and Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith Co. t
Ld. For Adelaide and VV.A. all tiokets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY. .
A. U. S. N. Coy Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Maokay.
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Twice weekly, via Bris-
bane, Maryborough, and Bundaberg.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 8 Weeks, via Brls
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
via MELBOURNE—Fortnightly.
Passenger A econvinoda&ion, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of tlie Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and VV. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, 10 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports__
P. AND o
COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAM ERB
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £BB to £ll
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific,
Messageries Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE. FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meed
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris.and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (first Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Through bookings to points in Canada, United States
of America and Europe at special rates.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
. Lowest Fares and Freights.
For further information apply to
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
. . SMOKE . .
TfiLXi
INSIST
on having this Brand
and no other.
Largest Depot:
231 CLAR€NC€ STR€€T
SYDNEY.


HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion 1 If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
y ? u - » j ?, ps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
Wallowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
nniH''vni S > llb, T n !, t to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
0U ; M d ,°? 1 Bay Perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured,
oend at once for
ALBERT'S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs.
Housemaid s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, lumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
! ->" Gr eat Britain, 1/ljd. per box. Prepared by
AI.J3ERI /3, Farringdon-street, London, England
Agents : ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers s! fiould
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
drunk
ENNESS
CURED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
IJiTSee my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, igoi, wherein I agree to
accept ioo Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free,
W. LANGSTON, M.R.c.s.. Eng..
68 Russell St., Melbourne.
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchase*
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee wi'h
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
TOILET
SOAP
BEST FOR THE SKIN and
COMPLEXION.
Antiseptic, Emollient, Refreshing.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &c.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
TTca-EB -
SPOONER’S
SPOONER’S
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning- and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and la.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
m
m
wiiiimm
>
pi
* '
PINALCS
LOVELY COLORS.
BRILLIANT
GLOSS.
REJECT
IMITATIONS.
See that Aspinall’s name
and Medals are stamped
on every Tin.
MANUFACTURED BY
ASPINALL’S ENAMEL, Ltd., NEW CROSS,
LONDON , ENG,
Clarkson’s Electric Bolt,
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
han any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
e xpense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Re-In.vigora.tor
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collapse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’SRE-INVIGORATOR
will bring happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs Is tml v wonderful
„ THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC. organs is cruiy wonaenun
Price-ELECTRIC BELT, XOs. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £L
CALL, or write—
own.
CUT
RATE
DRUG STORES
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
WISDOM :
SAVE YOUR
A3NOIAI
Ml® WHERE TO
SAVE YOUR
aiAiiJL
PROSPERITY
CAN’T LAST FOR EVER WITHOUT THE
PUBLIC’S CONFIDENCE AND APPRECIATION,
mt
w.
f
m
EVIDENCE OF WHICH IS DAILY RE-
CEIVED IN THE FORM OF TESTI-
MONIALS AND GRATEFUL LETTERS
BY
Herr RfISSMUSSEN
THE WORLD-FAMED DANISH
HERBALIST & BOTANIST,
PROPRIETOR OF THE
alfaline HERBAL REMEDIES
KEGISTERED.
A FEW WORDS TO THE UNINITIATED.
PERSONAL AND PERTINENT. Those who have Dot met ITerr Rassmussen, and
Who have not given his Alfaline Herbal Remedies a trial, may find it beneficial to become
acquainted with the good work which he has done in the interest of suffering humanity for
the last twenty years. J
ALONG BACK IN THE BEGINNING OF THE EIGHTIES
S r USSCn A int , ro< ! aCed hi i no « world-famed Alfaline Herbal Remedies to the Australian public at 547 George
ht^nhf,iL re a n' VaS the H floodcd w,th , A “« r ' can importations and proprietary remedies, manufactured
by doubtful persons with assumed names and fictitious addresses, who took the DeoDle’s monev without
responsibility, and very often without giving them fair value for same. peoples money without
HERR RASSMUSSEN BROUGHT ABOUT A REVOLUTION
by straightforward and fair dealings with the public, offering to stake his reputation and future if his remedies
verdict efficacious as ho clailned thera fco be > accepting all responsibility, and willing to abide by the people’s
THE HAPPY RESULT IS KNOWN TO EVERYONE.
Over twenty years have passed away, hundreds of remedies have come and gone—many of them were forced on
the public in numerous designing ways—thousands of pounds spent on advertising same with the assistance of the
worlds greatest experts in laying traps for the unwary; but the public would have none of them and thev have
disappeared as suddenly as a flash of lightning. *
“THE ALFALINE REMEDIES EXCELL ALL OTHERS,”
and are well known to be more popular to-day than they have ever been. They have not only obtained, but
have retained the goodwill and confidence of the Australian public, and have become famous throughout the
civi ized world. The first Sydney Office not only yet exists, but offices have been opened up for their sale at
Melbourne Brisbane, Adelaide, Wellington, N.Z., and in West Australia at Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie and
Boulder City, with Agencies throughout the world. ®
LET THE PUBLIC JUDGE FROM THE FOLLOWING:—
. The A J fa,i " e Remedies have held their own for over twenty years in Australia, and Herr Rassmussen has
been awarded the Parisian Acadamies Gold Medal and Diploma of Honour ; Gold Medal, Sydney, and several Silver
Medals; honourably mentioned in almost every newspaper in Australia ; received many thousands of unsolicited
testimonials—every one of the originals open for inspection at his Offices. The Alfaline Remedies have never been
known to fail to cure m a single instance.
ARE THEY NOT WORTH A TRIAL?
if they are, why not try them today ? why leave it till to-morrow and, perhaps, lose your chance and time? No
order so small that it is not welcome ; no order so large that it cannot be executed at once. If vou first wish
evidence of the efficacy of the Alfaline Remedies, '
SEND FOR HIS FREE BOOK,
and read what the experienced have to say, and what the Australian newspapers have to say—the double distilled
extracts from the Press speak for themselves.
A FEW OF THE ALFALINE REMEDIES:
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS never fail to cure Nervous Diseases, Weak Spine
Troubled Brain. Fatigued Nerves, Despondency, Poor Memory, Debility, Want of Confidence’
restore Vital Strength, and preserve the system against being affected by age more than any
known remedy. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; course, 23/(5 posted.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS area permanent cure for all Chronic, Blood and Skin
Diseases, no matter how caused, or of how long standing—Blotches, Blood Disorders, Gravel
Diseases of the Urinary Organs, etc., etc. Boxes, 6/- and 12/- ; courses, 23/6 posted.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS completely cure Wasting Diseases in Women
—Anaemia, Whites, Poverty of Blood, Sallow Complexion, Dull Eyes, and act as a perfect
Blood and Nerve Tonic. Boxes, 6/- and 12/- ; courses, 23/6.
C A J: FAUNE RHEUIVIATIC PILLS cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica, Lumbago. Ravages
trom Rheumatic Fever, Chalky formation m the Joints. Boxes, 3/-, 6/-, and 12/- ; courses, 2376.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS remove all Stomach Troubles, Costive-
ness, Indigestion, Flatulence, Heartburn, Wind, Biliousness and Headache. Boxes, 1/-.
GENERAL ALFALINE REMEDIES.
Alfaline Pile Powders cure internal and external Piles, boxes 3/- and 6/- ,- Varicocele
Powders, boxes 6/- ; Blood Capsules or Globulus, 6/- ; Fat Reducing Powders, which remove
Corpulency, 6/-; Hair Restorer, 6/-; Corn Cure, 1/-; Ointment, 1/-; Eucalyptus Oil and
Jujubes, boxes 1/-; Flesh-Producing Powders, 6/-; Complexion Beautifiers remove Pimples
and Freckles, 3/- and 6/-; Alfaline Embrocation removes all sorts of Muscular Pains, Stiff
Joints -good for Footballers, bottles 1/6 posted ; Worm Tablets, 1/- ; Headache Tablets,
Instant Cure, 1/- ; Soluble Quinine Pessaries, 5/-; Electric Belts, Suspenders, Bandages]
Enemas, Glass Syringes, etc. Circulars with all particulars sent Free.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALITY.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has made special arrangements for attending
personally to his Clients living in the Country, and letters will receive
most careful personal attention. Advice or information sent free and
unobserved. Patrons may rely on skilful, honest and confidential treatment.
His Remedies will he forwarded to sufferers, packed in plain cover and
unobserved, together with Advice and Directions. Letters should be addressed
to Herr Rassmussen’s full name-HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN—and
Registered if containing Money, and may be sent to any of
Herr Rassmussen’s Addresses:
Head Office: 547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
ALSO AT
MELBOURNE—I.SO Bourke Street
BRISBANE—3O9 Queen Street
ADELAIDE—IS Pulteney Street
N. 2.—91 Lambton Quay, Wellington
W.A.—PERTH—IBI Hay Street
KALGOORLIE—Hannan Street
BOULDER ClTY—Piesse Street
PREMANTLE-117 High Street
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of Alfaline Remedies.
“An Exile ” writing from S’Africa under
date June 28 :
Six months without a Bulletin ! Not that they
haven’t been sent, but the censor has had the benefit
of them. Now one comes to hand cunningly con-
cealed inside a Jingo newspaper. Such is martial law. I
may not even post this openly to you, but must send it
under cover to a friend.
The Boers have recognised the fact that 10 to 1 is
longer odds in war than in racing and have cried a go
for the present. That is all it amounts to I really believe.
“ They are proud to become citizens of this great Empire.”
Of course. How credulous we are all of a sudden 1
What filthy, treacherous ruffians they were a few weeks
ago 1 And what brave, unselfish, patriotic heroes they are
now, to be sure ! An Afrikander woman who has through-
out taken a great interest in the welfare of the inmates of
the concentration camps, addressed the women of Port
Elizabeth the other day : “ Ons Land (our country) will
be Ons Land yet, in spite of all. The British have over-
whelmed us by numbers in the field, but it will be by
numbers in the land that the Dutch will conquer yet. For
we bear children by dozens, whilst the English bear them
by twos and threes, and it is ourselves, Dutch women of
South Africa, who must see to it that the Dutch shall
inherit the land.” This highly treasonable speech was
not reported in the papers, but it showed that the lady
had not studied the statistics of recent years for nothing.
The Dutch seem to have successfully transplanted them-
selves in this country, whilst the English emphatically
have not. Perhaps it is because the Dutch stick to the
land, the English to the towns. The Boers must be about
the most prolific race on earth, whilst the vital statistics
of England and English colonies are sad reading. And
gold mines work out in a life time but the land is there
for ever. The Boer spirit is as strong as ever. There
may or may not be another Anglo-Boer war. But,
whether by bullet or ballot, the result in the long run
will be the same. The Dutch will rule the land. Now
some want to suspend the Constitution of Cape Colony, I
because, under representative government, the Dutch will
have the balance of power This has been a British colony
for a century. Looks well for British South Africa ? The
Imperial Government, it is said, will force a Federation
of S’African States, whether the people are ready for it or
not. The Chartered Co. shareholders will then be relieved
of the burden of Rhodesia with the S’African taxpayers’
money.


Man’s best Friend.
An Ashburton (N.Z.) man praises Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills.
“ The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 58 Pitt St.,
Sydney. Gentlemen. —For some years past I
have suffered from a sluggish liver, which culmi-
nated in a lon™ and painful illness. I was under
two doctors for treatment for liver and kidney
troubles brought on by influenza, but I must say
that I derived much more benefit from Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills than from any of the
doctors’ medicines. I can recommend them to
anyone suffering from liver or kidney ailments,
as I think they are the best and mildest medi-
cine I have taken. I may say that we always
keep Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills in the house,
and we use nothing else as a family medicine.
Yours truly, William Huston.”
As a Family Medicine
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are in use in
thousands of homes throughout Australasia and
the world. They cleanse and purify the blood,
and keep the liver and kidneys in perfect work-
ing order. They are a perfect and positive cure
for biliousness, indigestion, constipation, head-
aches, sallow complexion, liver and kidney
troubles, piles, pimples, boils and blotches, and
for female ailments. Put up in amber bottles
and the full name blown thereon.
For LONG-DISTANCE WORK
on the road, where strength is desirable and speed not
to be despised, you should be mounted on a
RED BIRD BICYCLE
unless you are willing to risk being left behind. For road-racing, the Red Bird is consistently famous as
the safest machine to trust with your hopes. Call and see our New Models.
Branches in every State. GOOLP BICYCLE CO„ 64 King Street.
Hardy’s
Absolutely Pure;
Tin tara Wines
Fully Matured; 700 Medals, etc.
Adelaide:
CURRIE STREET
Melbourne:
COLLINS STREEI
Sydney:
GROSVENOR STREET
SPORTING NOTIONS.
A member of the betting public has been pro-
ceeded against by the police for making a bet on Canter-
bury (Sydney) Park racecourse. Action was taken under
a by-law of the local municipality, which provides for
any person who shall “ frequent” a street or public place
within the niunicipality for the purposes of wae'erin (y or
making a bet being fined £2. Accused’s lawyer success-
fulb’took the point that a casual visit to the park was
not frequenting ” it, and as the meetings at Canterbury
are only held every few weeks the by-law is plainly un-
workable. In the event of the Canterbury aldermen
framing a workable rule against betting on the part
of the public, the absurdity will be reached of fining
a man heavily for doing at Canterbury what the world
and his wife (not always his own wife) do with impunity
at Randwick. J
* * * *
Sydney Mo. Club (Tatts.) meeting at Randwick,
Saturday, was not a success for the bejewelled one.
Mostly heavily-backed nags got home, and the Gentiles
had one good day’s outing. But it is only a passing
shock that the next meeting will probably balance, while
the following one will provide a surplus.
* • • *
Cyanide’s easy gatbering-in of Spring Handicap
at Sydney Tatt’s. meet, Saturday, further emphasises her
prospects of doing something big during coming A. J.C.
meeting. She fairly romped away with the money, and
made hacks of the opposition in the finishing half-mile.
Bar the possibility of Patronage starting, the Metrop.
looks a fairly good thing for Cyanide, who has done some
excellent track work ; but as she is prepared at Rosehill,
touts know nothing about her, except through rumor.
• • » *
Looks as if unlucky Randwick trainer-owner,
Dick Wootten, is going to have a turn t’other way. About
three weeks ago out of late Mr. R. Richards’ racing stud
he secured Baccarat for 230g5., and on Saturday, just
before flagfall for Tatts.’ Tramway Handicap, put a com-
mission on the market, getting from twenties down to
eights, which brought him a big parcel of money and the
stakes, lOOsovs. Wootten was fortunate to land the coin.
Great Scot got away lengths last and finished a head
behind, while Myall (third), perhaps a similar distance
further off, was twice blocked in the concluding 200yds.
Despite the judge’s decision, experienced men well
placed to see declared the finish a dead-heat.
• • • •
W.f.a. Hampden Stakes at Randwick, Satur-
day, fell to Abundance, who, on form, promises well for
coming A.J.O. Derby. Abundance is owned by bookie
Bob Phillip, is beautifully formed and uncommonly tract-
able, but wants plenty of riding. His only win prior to
Saturday was V.R.O. Aidful Stakes. Abundance is half-
brother to Wink, by Pilgrim’s Progress (imp.) from Bean-
fast, by Plebeian, from Festival by Sterling. Beanfast was
brought Australiawards 12 years ago by late Mr. W. R.
Wilson, who bred Abundance.
• * • *
Patronage’s showing at Rosehill t’other Satur-
day has considerably cramped the odds about him for
Metrop. and Caulfield and Melbourne Cups. Right from
the opening he topped the list of Metrop. quotations, and
now owners (Messrs. Brown of Newcastle) are peculiarly
placed. If they pull him out of the big A.J.O. event
'twill make no difference ; they’ll have to take short odds
in either of the other two they send him for. Then
there’s the always present possibility of his getting stale
if kept too long. Probably he’ll have a cut for the
Metrop. with its substantial prize and Tatts. sweep possi-
bilities, even if the stable doesn’t feel inclined to “buy”
Mo.’s money.
* * _ • •
Old-time sportsman, Mr. Geo. Matthews, who
died at Bathurst, t’other day. was prominent on N.S.W.
turf and owned many forefronters of their time. His
Blair Athol and Ghinni Ghinni won Hawkesbury Spring
Handicap and Guineas. The deceased had the Sports-
man’s Arms at Kelso (N.S.W.), and was among the oldest
members of Bathurst Agricultural Association.
• • * •
The totalisator in France protects the public
against the “ accident ” of a favorite getting beaten by a
despised stable companion. A recent tale is told of three
Australian mining-men (J. E. Scantlebury was one of
them) who backed a winner at Longchamps without
knowing they had any interest in its chance. They
bought tote tickets for a certain gee-gee on the advice of
a casual tipster, and when the animal came in “ nowhere ”
they tore the tickets up. Presently, they learned that
the winner being a stable-companion of their defeated
dead-bird they were entitled to half dividends, so they
gathered the fragments of their tickets, fixed them up
satisfactorily, and got paid. The French tote doesn’t
allow one horse only to be backed when it has a stable
companion in the race. The investment is divided
between the pair. In short, the machine stops the stable
and its jockeys from “going for one” as far as ticket-
Surchasers are concerned. Their troubles asj to which
orse is trying!
■ • • m
A White Horse-tralia. Tie and Hing, two
Chinese jockeys, rode winners at the recent Elmore
(Vic.) races. The former won two races, but dropped a
tenner through being i >o handy with his tongue and fists
after the last race. jth these riders are experts over
the “little sticks ” '
* * * *
The V.R.C. loses more than £2OOO a year
“ royalty ” by the reduction in railway fares to Fleming-
ton, whereas the Railway Dept, forfeits only £l3OO, with
the hope of recovering some of it through an increase in
the traffic.
m * * *
The good old British sport. A sign in Lons-
dale-st., Melb,“ Quong Hie Loong, Cabinet-maker and
manufacturer of Cricket Bats.”
• * • •
Victor Trumper’s splendid vindication of his
baptismal name reminds one that when Stoddart’s first
eleven met him as a college boy in a match at Sydney
they were almost unanimous in predicting that he would
develop into a champion batsman. Their blowing of
Trumpet trumpet was thought at the time to be an
indirect disparagement of Clem Hill. Now it seems that
the visitors were judging boy Trumper honestly from
their knowledge of the style in which runs are made on
English wickets. Trumper’s record for the season is equal
to the best of Grace’s early achievements.
* * * *
A feature of the Australian-Kent match, ended
Saturday, was the number of accidental “outs.” Gregory
and Day (Kent), l.b.w. twice. Trumper was l.b.w. and
run out. Duff, Noble, Hill, Saunders and Blythe (Kent),
run out. Huish, 1.b.w., and a couple of instances of
“ playing on ” occurred. Of 11 Kent-Australia matches
the odd success belongs to Australia. Trumper scored
another best through beating Darling’s record (1941)
for Australians in England by 35, he only needs 24
more to complete his 2000.
* * * *
Indications are that Trumble’s craze for golf
will lure him from cricket, for the two won’t run toge-
ther. One English scribe writes that heavy work on
Hawksworth golf-links day before made Trumble glad to
be excused from shaping against a mixed and mediocre
England 11 at Bradford. Trumble is even keener on golf
than cricket ; he puts his soul into the one and only his
head into the other.
• * * *
Apropos the three centuries notched by Noble,
Hill and Hopkins in opposition to Gloucestershire. This
feat has been achieved often. The English record (four)
belongs jointly to Yorkshire (in ’96) and Derbyshire (’9B),
but the world’; est is owned out here and was accom-
plished in a iiK -uh, S.A. v. N.S.W., by five of the latter
side—Gregory (168), Noble (153), Poidevin (140 n. 0.), Duff
(119), and Iredale (118). Then N.S.W. compiled 918—the
highest total for a first-class contest.
• • * *
Return matches N.S.W. v. Q., played this and
next Saturday, will finish this season’s football. N.S.W.
won both matches played in Sydney, but Q. should do
better at Brisbane. The visiting team is a strong one,
its back division being nearly all from the 'Varsity team.
As usual,'the country representation is minute.
• • « ■
’Varsity-Glebe match, last Saturday, prac-
tically decided the destination of this year’s
N.S.W. Metropolitan Rugby premiership. The struggle
was superb, and 11,000 onlookers were wildly
excited. Half time saw no score and sides appar-
ently equal. Well through the second half neither
had an advantage, till 'Varsity notched a try then
a goal from a mark shoved Glebe forward. “ Uni’s ”
dash and force were splendid. Glebe fended and fought
well, and the public outside the railings vented its
feelings in a sustained roar. ’Varsity, attacking hard
with rare combination, at last got an opening a
few moments off cease play, and the full time whistle
followed close upon their kick for goal. It was a great
and sensational struggle, won right on the verge of van-
quishment by 6 points to 4. Last year same two clubs
shared supremacs'. First round of this season’s compe-
tition saw Glebe inflict a heavy and unexpected defeat on
their latest conquerors, but previous week’s results
brought them level-pegging, Western Suburbs being next
—1 point to the bad.
• « • *
One-time Australian heavy champion bruiser,
Joe Goddard, said to have been shot in an election rough-
up at Punsanken (U.S.A.), was born in N.S.W. 41 years
ago, and v/as prominent as a pug. since ’B9, when he
squelched big Ned Ryan in three rounds. Prior to then,
Goddard figured occasionally at Saturday-night shows in
Foley’s old White Horse Gym., then situated just where
the George-st. entrance to the Strand (Sydney) Arcade is
now. Billed as the “ Illawarra Navvy,” he essayed to
stand before Peter Jackson for four rounds, but the big
black crushed him. Foley having retired, and Jackson
and Paddy Slavin gone abroad, he attracted attention as
a possible champion of the continent by smashing smiling
Charlie Dunn and Owen Sullivan, at Broken Hill, thus
earning the title of “ Barrier Champion.” Afterwards,
Goddard fought all through Australia, and then to
America, but came back badly wrecked after being
knocked out in 18 rounds by Yankee Ed. Smith. In ’94,
Maori Harry Lang (since dead) bested Goddard, at Mel-
bourne, in 12 rounds, which proved that the Barrier
champion had deteriorated considerably. Drifting
to S’Africa in the boxing boom, he made a pile
and then returned to America, where he never
showed anything like his old form. He sank down
to making matches with any and everyone any-
where, provided they “cut” the purse or “gate.” He
also tried beer-pumping, but that apparently didn’t
pay, as, less than a year since, he was heard of
figuring in a big six days’ go-as-you-please worry in
Philadelphia.
• * * •
Twelve years ago Goddard was 6ft. and 14st.
Absolutely devoid of skill, he relied mainly upon brute
force, grit and marvellous insensibility to punishment.
He could endure thumps like mule-kicks and still come in
on top of his man, which was how he beat the skilled
fighters. ’Murkan Choynski, among the heaviest hitters in
the biz., in Sydney 11 years ago, landed a fearful right on
Goddard’s jaw, between the ear and the chin, which lifted
him clean off his feet and sent him skidding along the
boards like a log ; it was the most terrific punch the
oldest inhabitant had heard of, yet Goddard came again
and stood further fearful battering, till nearing the end
of the third round the pair were fought to a standstill;
neither had a slug in him. Goddard won, Choynski,
limp and lame, crying enough at the close of the
fourth round. But Goddard’s most ferocious scrap
was with “ Mick ” Dooley, in June, 1900, at Sydney. For
21 rounds he roughed and mauled the very life out of his
2st. lighter opponent, who banged that beautiful left of
his home until the Barrier champion’s face—with eyes all
but closed and cheeks bruised and lumpy—resembled a
battered liver. But for the referee tolerating foul after
foul Goddard would undoubtedly have been beaten that
night. Writer remembers Joe offering to bet, and putting
up the money, that he would remain inert with hands at
his sides, and no man living could knock him out with
one punch on the point. No one undertook the task
under those conditions, but Joe lived to be knocked out—
with both hands up, too—by Denver Ed. Smith years
afterwards.
* * * •
Joe Goddard, the “rushing” pugilist, whose
death at the hands of a colored policeman in America is
reported, leaves a widow and family in South Melbourne.
Jack Marshall, the best known of Vic. trainers, says God-
dard was the strongest pug. that ever stood in a ring in
Australia, and believed that if his hands had not gone
back on him he would have come out a world’s champion.
Vic. papers credit Goddard with a victory over Frank
Slavin, but it. was Slavin’s inferior relation, Jack, whom
Joe beat at Yarra Glen, when Joe was a comparatively
green amateur. Goddard’s best exhibition was his battle
with Peter Jackson, ending in a draw after 20 rounds.
The referee (Prof. Miller) said that he declared a draw out
of regard for Jackson’s position—a rather curious verdict,
as Goddard was certainly points ahead. Goddard beat
Peter Maher, then pretty well up top in the States ; but
his hands broke up on Peter’s thick head, and were never
good for much after. One of Goddard’s tricks of strength
was throwing a cow over a three-railed fence at Fisher-
man’s Bend. He got his head under the animal, and,
taking a fore and hind leg in each hand, he hoisted and
over she went. Joseph earned a lot of money at the
game, but “did it in” like the rest of “the fancy."
Among his victims were Dooley, Owen Sullivan, Choyn-
ski, and Lees.
• » * •
On Monday night, 18th inst., “Young” Hig-
gins, brother of “Tot,” the Port Melb. pug, put ’em up
to Corbet, a little-known local with a flying right and an
able left, at the Lyceum Hall, and, although the house
was full of emptiness, the two fought one of the brightest
battles seen in the building. They were scrapping for
next to nothing, less expenses, but made it rabid from the
jump. Corbet proved himself an audacious fighter, with
cunning elbows and heaps of business. He is a baker by
trade, and trains on dough. Higgins stood over him, and
had a large natural surplus in the matter of weight, but
the smaller man was making a big reserve of points,
although Higgins looked good for another month, when
with the eighth round the fight was ended. No decision
was given. The two should draw a ship-load when they
meet again.
♦ ♦ ♦
Negro Tom Mitchell and white ex-waterman,
George Johns, drew the biggest house seen for years to
Sydney Gaiety A.C. last week. Money came freely for
Mitchell at 6 to 4 on, and the initial round made him look
a sure winner. Johns played into his hands by fighting
out from him, and the black pounded him heavily on face
and ribs. The second round was particularly sultry, both
men raining blows till they sat down, with the white man
best and the black’s left hand fractured. The next two
rounds were just as desperate, bub the fractured hand
told, and at the end of the fourtn the Mitchell crowd ele-
vated the wipe amid cursing and gnashing of backers’
teeth. Bub for the cracked slugger, Mitchell, on his
showing, might have won, although John’s work was
quite a revelation to even hardened old-timers.
* * * * .
Two well-known nigger pugs were divorced by
their wives at Melbourne last week.
* * * ♦
Sandow, when in Adelaide, kindly started to
organise firemen and police on his “ system.” The latter
were taken on first, and presented a delightful spectacle.
Preference being given to seniority in the force, the old
and portly men had to exhibit themselves while the
young and active looked on. The seniors were asked in
so many words to keep their “stomachs in,” but the
task was altogether beyond them, and by the time they
had, face downwards, raised themselves from the floor by
toes and finger-tips, the said stomachs came in very handy
for all but one or two of them to rest upon, completely
knocked out of time.
* • * *
The biggest road event yet run in the Southern
hemisphere is to be held in Victoria next Saturday. The
course is over the fine stretch of road between Warrnam-
bool and Melbourne—a distance of 165 miles. The enor-
mous acceptance of 118 riders has been received by the
Dunlop Tyre Co.—a record for a race of this description.
Representatives from every Commonwealth State, also
from Maoriland, have arrived in Melbourne to try and
win the great Australasian blue riband road event.
Littlechild (N.S.W.), Chalmers (M.L.), Hawley (Vic.) look
to have a good chance of carrying off the race, with
Ralston for fastest time prize.*
* * • *
The latest thing in bicycles is a steam-driven
Yankee motor-cycle, which, ridden by a man wearing
what looked like a diving helmet, cut out 51 miles per
hour over one of the few scraps of decent road there are
in the U.S. If that ever reaches Sydney’s
narrow, crooked streets, people who live near street cor-
ners will become quite accustomed to see a dead cyclist
and his machine come through the wall and sprawl across
the dinner table. What will happen to the people in the
street is too horrible to think of.
* * * *
Remarkable form, in England, of swimmer
“Dick” Cavill continues. Had he arrived earlier-
barring perhaps the five-mile race on the Thames—Aus-
tralia would probably have owned all England’s premier-
ships, which are the world’s. Cavill’s latest success is
the British Quarter-Mile Championship last week in, ’tis
cabled, 5.4 4-ssec.—a hair-raising speed feat. Previous
best was world’s professional champion “ Joey ” Nuttall’s
5.35 1-5; the prior amateur fastest (5.37 2-5) belonged to
“ Dick ” Cavill himself, and was accomplished at the
Australasian Championship meet at Wanganui (M.L.)
last February. As Australian George Read was second,
only 2yds. behind, he is evidently now well up to his best.
Sydney swimming enthusiast, Mr. George
Farmer, who returned from England t’other day, said
Read’s defeat in the mile occurred through sheer funk.
Three days before he did a trial that would have won the
race easily. Cavill had landed only four days previously.
Professional champion Nuttall is a side swimmer and the
finest in the world. With a wonderful stroke, crossing
and recrossing the legs with each single movement of the
arms, his progress doesn’t appear effort at all and is
motion always. The under arm isn’t brought right
through to its fullest extent as with Australians, but
directly it gets at right angles to the shoulder it is turned
upward quickly and shot out straight again, all the time
the top arm is sent in about level with the forehead and
swept through the water quickly. No time is wasted
recovering or bringing the power to bear. Australian
swimmers are often slow sending the arm forward, for the
stroke, and slower still forcing it through the water.
Nuttall is vigor from end to end of his work. Though
only perhaps 5.5 high he scales 12st. and has a 43in. chest
with underpins a picture of symmetry and muscle.
English amateur champ. Jarvis has Nuttall for trainer
and coach, and devotes his whole time to swimming ; is
big, awkwardly built, scales perhaps 13J stone and humps
a wealth of superfluous tissue about with him. Jarvis
affects a leg stroke which is a blend of Nuttalt’s and that
known in Sydney a few years ago as “ Gormly’s kick.”
• • • *
Fred Lane and Dick Cavill were first and
second in England’s furlong championship, former
winning by the touch only, in fresh world’s record
time of 2.28 2-5. Remarkable that the same pair
should finish in exactly the same manner as when
swimming for the 100yds. blue ribbon a week or
two before, when they also smashed all previous records.
Figures obliterated by Lane’s latest performance were
2.34 4-5, created by himself and the great English sprinter
Derbyshire, when they dead-heated for the English
220yds. championship at Birmingham, two years ago.
As showing the big advancement made over this distance
within the past decade, 10 years back Australian cham-
pion Walter Gormly swam the 220yds. in 2.38 J, and this
stood good till seven years later, when Lane covered the
trip, at Farmer’s Domain baths (Sydney) in 2.38 1-5. Now
we hear of it being done in little less than lOsec. better.
* * • *
Ferguson, who appropriated Victorian cross-
country individual supremacy on Miners’ Racecourse at
Ballarat, has been running four years ; his first public
effort landed him 19th in the 10-mile championship.
Following year he finished third, and last season was only
just beaten after a severe tussle with Stillwell. This year
Ferguson has come on further and made fastest times in
“ Anderson ” five-miles team and seven miles open races.
* * * *
Premiership of N.S.W. cross-country champion-
ship, which eventuated on Kensington racecourse Satur-
day last, over s£m. and 35 jumps averaging 4ft., was won
by East Sydney—l 7 points better than West and 21 ahead
of South, last year’s holders. Individual supremacy fell
to S. W. York, verging on 30 years old, who scored his
third success (last two in succession), and in ’9B. Despite
heavy going, York got home with something to spare in
28.53—lOfsec. better than his time for ’Ol on same
ground.
• * • •
There is a possibility that, except for track-
racing, the pneumatic tyre is in its last days. The great
danger arising from liability to puncture has always been
a thorn in the side of the cyclist who goes forth in the
spring to kill himself before the advent of winter. Now
the inevitable Scotchman has come along with a simple
spiral-spring arrangement that can be punctured till the
tyre looks like a fish-skeleton and still run on serenely.
The new device consists of a number of spiral springs
placed between a solid-rubber tyre and a patent rim, and
has all the advantages of the pneumatic without any of
its numerous corresponding disadvantages.
• * * •
An advt. of a coursing dog sire, named General
Booth, catches the eye. He is by Happy Geezer out of
Happy Eliza, and is sire of Army Girl, Major Booth,
Golden Gate, and other big performers.
Dear Bulletin.— lt is the fashion to insist
on a local Appeal Court and thus say good-bye to
the dear old Privy Council. Who would consti-
tute that Court ? The present leaders of the Bar,
or some of them, and if that be so, the following
record of P.C. decisions on appeals from N.S.W.
Supreme Court since 1895 is instructive
Gould v. Stewart, affirmed ; Attorney-General v. Rennie,
affirmed; Hunter Water Board v. Newcastle Council,
affirmed; Bank of N.S.W. v. Piper, overruled ; Hill v,
Dalgety, overruled; Attorney-General v. Walters, over-
ruled ; Garnsey v. Flood, affirmed ; Attorney-General v.
Love, affirmed; Colles v. Minister for Lands, affirmed ;
v Minister for Lands, overruled ; Croudace v. Yoebel,
affirmed ; Taxation Commissioner v. Teeee, affirmed ;
Broughton v. Commissioner for Stamps, affirmed ; Palmer
v. Moore, affirmed; Williams v. Papworth, affirmed;
Taxation Commissioner v. Kirk, overruled ; King v. Hen-
derson, affirmed ; Minister for Lands v. Wilson, over-
ruled ; Cook v. Ricketson, overruled ; Falkner v. M'Kin-
nery, overruled; Humble v. Humphreys, affirmed;
Young v. Waller, affirmed ; Edgar v. Plomley, overruled ;
William v. Scott, overruled ; Wentworth v. Wentworth,
overruled ; Taxation Com. v. Antill, overruled ; A.J.S.
Bank v. Bailey, overruled; Williams v. Railway Com.,
overruled ; Simpson v. Bank of N.Z., overruled ; Falk v.
Williams, affirmed ; Taxation Com. v. Municipality of
Broken Hill, overruled.
In 31 appeals N.S.W. Full Court was wrong 16
times and right 15 times —no one knows how often
it has been wrong in the cases in which the loser
did not appeal. In the very latest case, Taxation
Com. v. Antill (June, 1902), all three Judges were
“ quite clear ” and ‘ ‘ plain ” in deciding for Antill
—the Privy Council says that they are all wrong
—that the reputed case on which they based their
judgment had nothing to do with the point in
discussion, and that there was no analogy
between our Income Tax Act and the Eng-
lish. Falkner v. M'Kinnery is another very
instructive case where the Privy Council wiped
the floor with the Full Court. So is Hill v. Dal-
gety. Good old Privy Council! —Yours, &e., H.
[But why this Hinglish presumption that the
Privy Council is always right? The Bulletin
dares to think that, possibly, in some of
these cases in which that body “ wiped the floor ”
with Australian judges, it was wrong and Austra-
lian jurists right.]
At Poverty Point.
The preliminary advts. of the Mount Kembla benefit
concert at Sydney Town Hall didn’t please Amy Castles a
little bit. They represented that the “ Princess of Song ”
would appear by “ kind permission ” of J. C. Williamson,
whereas the lady was about to complete her engagement
with J.C.W. when she sang in Brisbane. The ads. and
paragraphs should have said that Princess Amy would be
graciously pleased to give her services to the good cause
on her royal own.
Melba has been getting “ fits ” from the critics for her
death-scene in “La Traviata.” The heroine dies of a
lingering consumption, and Patti used to play it, as a
peaceful end, in an invalid-chair. Melba prefers to take
it standing, drawing herself up to full height, and giving
the slashing “ back-fall ” of melodrama.
Dear Bulletin.— Re par. about Players’ Club being
mostly ex-professional. Outside Lytton, who was with
Brough and Hawtrey, the players in “ Weaker Sex ” were
purely amateur, nine out of 14 making their initial bow.
—L.
“ S.T.S.” : “ Edson ” claims (B. 28/6/’O2) that to give
any of Shakespeare’s big soliloquies means to drop the
actor for the elocutionist. True enough as a rule, but
the Waldorf-plus- 11 Ben Hur” crowd gave a pleasant ex-
ception (and to one of “ Edson’s ” most notable instances)
in “As You Like It.” H. H. Vincent, as Jaques, gave
the “ Seven Ages” speech sitting close to one wing, side-
ways to the audience, and looking at his fellow-players.
He spoke thoughtfully, as one who had all his ideas clear
enough, but had to arrange them in due order. And the
banished Duke listened attentively, nodding occasionally
with a smile, as who should say, “ Rather long-winded,
this, old boy ; but that was neatly put.” The gentlemen
of the suite gave a perfunctory attention, but clearly
thought the whole thing a bore ; and the faithful retainers
sat about at the back, eating apples from the lunch-table.
Everything just as it might have happened in “ real life’’
of the Forest of Arden.
Melbourne police, desirous of suppressing a peripatetic
suburban phonograph which, after wheezing out one or
two colorless selections, suddenly breaks into cheerful
profanity and cerulean stories, find themselves in a
quandary. The instrument itself is not an “ obscene pro-
duction,” and as a neuter object cannot, under present
Vic. laws, be held to have “ used obscene language,” no
prosecution has followed, and the naughty 'graph con-
tinues to do brisk biz. amongst depraved suburbanites.
The Wellington (M.L.) police recently hauled up a kine-
matograph showman for exhibiting allegedly suggestive
pictures, but the magistrate dismissed the case on the
grounds that there was very little azure about the sub-
jects, and that in any case the films were put through the
machine too rapidly to enable anybody to assemble a suf-
ficient number of sensibilities to be shocked. What
time the living-picture man was breasting the bar of
Social Gimletism, a meek and lowly showman was doing
the song-and-dance townships with no one to say him nay
or to drop Condy’s Fluid on his outfit. One of the items on
hisprogramme was a leg-show (literally) in which a number
of females (begged, borrowed, stolen or lost) ranged them-
selves along the front of the stage behind the curtain,
and lifted their skirts slightly (or considerably) while, to
the music of a clingsome waltz, the curtain was raised
about 18 inches or so. And then the showman, with a
wooden pointer (reminiscent of Zulu Thompson of blessed
memory) skipped along in front, requesting votes for
“ this pair, gents. ? ” “ And the next pair ? ” “ Now, what
do you say to these?” And so on, through the whole
gamut. Upon a show of hands the show of legs was
decided, and the happy possessor of the winning limbs
was awarded a silver watch. And all this in a country
where stockings are dried on an oven door, for fear the
baker’s boy may see them! Of course, in America it
would excite no comment. Such leg-shows are a familiar
feature of church bazaars in the land Geil comes from.
Old friend Teddy Royce, whom Australia remembers
chiefly for his Blueskin (Ri-too-ral) in “Jack Sheppard,”
was lately in danger of losing his eyesight, but an opera-
tion proved successful. Royce must be a tough little bit of
Bohemianism. When he came to Australia, 16 years ago,
he was a mere wreck of the original Royce who had
played in Gaiety burlesques with Nellie Farren and
Edward Terry prior to being laid low by paralysis. At
that time friends said of the little man that it had seemed
impossible for him to ever reappear on the stage. Such
resurrections never happen to big, beefy men.
Australian musical critics who babble pityingly of the
old Italian operas as “ sugary ” relics of an absurd
musical past, must be shocked to hear that Donizetti was
considerably on the bill at Oovent Garden this season.
“Lucia ” had a revival as usual, also “ L’Elisire D’Amore,"
one of the very sweetest of Donizetti’s operas, which has
been rarely heard in London since it was sung in English
by the Louisa Payne 00. ever so long ago.
Hilda Spong, now an actress of considerable importance
in America, is said to be prettier than ever. Some years
ago, when tall Hilda was leading lady in the Bland Holt
00., she threatened to grow too stout for heroine parts
before she was 30. But America is a great country for
girls who incline to be embonpoint. The various climates,
or the everlasting iced-water, or something must have an
anti-fatic influence.
Quite likely that George Rignold will be offered an
engagement by one of the managers when they find him
roaming at large in the theatrical world of the Big Smoke.
His family name carries weight in London, and
“ Handsome George ” retains the reputation of having
been the “star” Rignold in days of yore.
Dan. Barry, begorra ! introduces the “ latest American
cake-walk ” into the revels of the plantation slaves when
he stages “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin ” nowadays. One of these
days Dan will set the villain on a motor-car to chase
George Harris and Eliza.
Julius Knight, whose padded Superbus legs still live in
the memory of the Australian girl, has been unlucky with
his occasional London appearances. T’other week he
scored favorable press notice for his acting in a play—
“ The Queen of the Roses”—which fell flat. Miss Beryl
Faber also got praise for her share in the ill-fated show.
“W. J.” : Ex-policeman Kelly, mentioned in “ Poverty
Point ” (2/8/’O2) as being, apparently, quite 7ft. high and
“probably weighing little less than 30st.,”stands6ft. 7in.
in his stockings, and scales only 23st. at the outside.
Kelly, when staying with his relatives near Watchem
(Vic.) recently, lifted a double-furrow “ set” plough into
a dray—an awkward feat—unassisted.


BUTTER BY POST-
A boon to residents of the back country, -where butter is scarce or
unobtainable. Parcels containing from 21bs. to lOlbs. of our CELEBRATED
“ GOLDEN STAR ” BUTTER despatched regularly, packed in special card-
board boxes, at SYDNEY RETAIL RATES, plus postage. Remittance should
accompany order. Ask for a catalogue of our other HOME NECESSARIES
THE N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., Ltd., SYDNEY.
“THE BEST WHEEL”
BEST in construction,
BEST in ease of running.
BEST in strength of frame.
MASSEY-HARRIS CYCLES
MASSEY-HARRIS CYCLES
BEST in hill-climbing,
BEST in speed,
BEST in honest value.
*** We hold all Speed
Records, both Amateur
and Professional.
IN OUR SPORTS DEPARTMENT
special attention is directed to
DUMBBELLS, WANDS, INDIAN CLUBS
For School Children.
We stock the Highest Grade of Coods for Every Sport.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co., Ltd.,
357 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches in every State.
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
BUY A
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel . .
Hammerless Gun.
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept in stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Mellraurne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company.
Head Office : 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 10s. to £l5
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free.
McLEAN BROS, & RICO, Ltd., 107 Elizabcith-St., Melbourne.
COLLECTIVE INVESTIGATION.-The ex-
pedience of millions of people in all quarters of the
habitable globe during the last quarter of a
century has confirmed the value of Hunyadi Janos
as the best and safest natural aperient. Invalu-
able to diners-out.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr It assinussen’sad vt. on page
23 of this issue *
SHARPSHOOTIN6
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett. :
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published.
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne..
(Greener’s Representative). , '
! RAMEY'S MEDIC A TOR
For the Treatment of Catarrh, Hay Fever,
Bronchitis, Influenza, Catarrhal
Deafness, etc.
Medlcator, with complete treat-
meat, only 101-, post free.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY
229, 231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE. ,
SOAPS dubbed Shaving
are rarely
Shaving Soaps.
In a Class by Themselves
The World’s Standard Shaving Soaps
Williams’ Barber’s Bar
and
Williams’ Shaving Stick
“BARBER’S BAR”
While the natural Ally
Of the Deft Artist
And his Trusty Blade
Is also the Ideal Soap
For Home Use
Fits your Birthday Mug
Once tried, never changed
“Won’t Dry on the Face.”
Send a Penny Stamp and we will post i
Changing Pace Puzzle. Can you explain it 1
J. B. WILLIAMS CO., 232 Clarence-st.
pou Williams’
, Sydney.
"EIOR the person who is not a millionaire, thereis ONLY
x ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is "EQis’ King Street Coffee Palace,” -®f
situated at 6CFKING STREET!, and near the General Post
Proj?mdtor—GEQ. W. ELLIS.
Patents for Inventions. —Arthur Griffith
and Allen, International Patent Agents and Con-
sulting Engineers, University Chambers, Phillip-
street, Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyright
throughout the world.*
Price,
21/-
Post Free.
Price,
21/-
Post Fre^
V
H
NO BETTER VALUE
IN AUSTRALIA!
We offer a Special Line in Watches at manufacturer’s
prices—viz., 21/-. If you buy one you know you are
not paying’ the middlemen’s profits and you know
you are getting absolutely the Best Watch procurable
at the price. It is Solid Silver Keyless Lever and is
doubly cased. Unless unfairly used we keep it in
good order for 2 years free of cost.
IN LADY’S OR GENT’S SIZE, 21s.
Carriage Paid Anywhere.
Money back if you want it.
L. I. FLEGELTAUB,
Watchmaker & Jeweller,
96 KING STREET, SYJON EY (and, at London).
m
:
Specify
Dunlop
Rubber
Goods
are the finest that money and
brains can produce.
We have the finest Rubber
plant in the Southern Hemis-
phere and will be pleased to
quote for and supply Rubber
Goods of every description, no
order being too small and none
too large.
Should you
be requiring any Rubber Goods, we
humbly suggest that you give our manu-
facture a trial. Our Goods will do
the rest, for none better are
obtainable in Australasia.
Dunlop Rubber Goods
when purchasing any Rubber article and we guarantee to give you
satisfaction as to Quality and Price.
Samples and Prices upon application to
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. OF AUS., LTD.,
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne; and at
■*■?? Street, Sydney. 59 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane. 54 Barrack Street, Perth.
128 Lichfield Street, Christchurch, N.Z.
Colonel Tom Price is making things hum
In Brisbane military circles. Inspecting the last
Q. returned cohentingenters, he exhorted them not
to fill themselves up with cheap beer until they
imagined they were “returned heroes.” And
then, in a loud voice, he asked Lt.-Col. Chauvel
what he Was keeping the men on parade for ! The
startled colonel precipitately dismissed them.
An amusing feature of Vic. politics just
bow is the assiduous support of Irvine’s Govern-
ment by Smiler Peacock. That wily bird’s
criticism of Treasurer Shiels’ advance budget was
full of honeyed references to various real and
imaginary difficulties with which his brother, the
Raven, is confronted. At the same time, Peacock
is playing a risky game if he really doesn’t want
to be hustled out of his job as Opposition leader.
It is very well to let the other fellow get the
gruelling while pretending to assist him in the
dirty work, but many of Peacock’s supporters,
being new hands and not up to the tricks of the
political trade, already begin to growl. And now
that Outtrim is reconciled to his old party, it 1
won’t be long ere he makes capital out of such
discontent. Has the Smiler sealed his doom with
a knighthood ?
Premier Lewis’s scheme for putting him-
self and the dog in the same kennel—or for
putting the Council and the Assembly in the same
room while retaining them as separate institu-
tions—was defeated by 18 to 15. One of its
opponents, Lyne, voted against it because, he
said, there was no such thing as a Legislature of
one Chamber in the British empire, and he didn’t
want to get away from the safe paths of precedent.
The Tas. legislator, on a steady average, is
probably the most ignorant in Australasia, and
nobody made a serious effort to enlighten Lyne.
Premier Lewis now proposes to have a Leg.
Council of 12 members, and an Assembly of 24, so
he is back in the old hole. One notable feature is
that Lewis’s new ‘ ‘ Reform ” Bill says nothing
about paying any salary to members. This looks
like an attempt to destroy almost the only demo-
cratic idea Tasmania possesses, by accidental
omission.
Judge Dash wood, who was appointed to
investigate the pearl-shelling industry, reports
that in 1901 the pearl-shell landed at the two
great stations, Thursday Island and Port Dar-
win, was worth £122,571, and that the indus-
try employed 85 white people and 2420 imported
mgg'ers. It is a solemn fact that two average-
sized N.S.W. or Victorian boot-factories employ
as many white workers as all the great pearling
industry—there are 94 boot-factories in N.S.W.
employing an average of 42 people each. And if
Queensland would set to work and grow its own
wheat supply, it would save more in the way of
money paid for wheat imports than it makes out
of all the pearl-shell landed by all the 2138 niggers
who drink and curse and jabber at Thursday’s
pleasant isle.
“ Hermes ” : The young ladies who waved
the street collection-boxes for the Kembla fund
were a little too modest to be a huge financial suc-
cess, and I was considerably surprised to see. that
£1008 was raked in. Still, there were exceptions ;
some of the ladies in nursing uniform were par-
ticularly fleet. I had successfully navigated a
shoal of five, when a flowing cloak swooped down,
and, as the box rattled under my nose, I noted the
scars and moraines of glacial middle age. I pro-
duced a thrummer. “ Make it a shilling and 111
P've you a kiss,” said the lady. I hesitated—then
. kissed her for sweet Charity’s sake, and dropped
sixpence into the aperture. The occasion de-
manded the sacrifice.
From an Australian Star interview with
Premier John See (25/8/’02):
The State Government, he went on to say, would only
be able to pay back the duty to the importer —not to
remit it, because it must be paid—under an Act of Par-
liament, which would have to be passed. He did not
think a refund of the amount of duty paid would afford
any relief to the squatters. If the Federal Government
had seen its way clear to grant a remission of the duty,
he would have been very pleased ; as they had not, he
could do nothing further in that direction.
John See admits that the State Government can
refund the fodder duty (as it gets the duty from
the Federal Government at the division of the
surplus it certainly can refund it), but he flatly
refuses to part with a copper of said duty for
the benefit of any distressed pastoralists. And
—this is where the mystery comes in—John,
though he claims that it would help the squatter
if he hadn’t to pay the duty at all, alleges that it
wouldn’t help him in the least to get the duty re-
funded after he had paid it. Why that should be
so Heaven only knows, but John See says it is so.
The great Adelaide divorce case of Hall y.
Hall, with rev. preacher Wilson badly involved in
the background, came to a sudden but logical
close last Monday. It had gone on for many
days, and seemed likely to go on for many more
days. Costs were mounting up like an Alp; they
had already mounted up so high that you could
hardly see to the top of Costs. Gentleman One
was getting along beautifully; also Gentlemen
Two, Three, Four, Five and Six. And then, just
as the defence was fairly started, Judge Boucaut
asked if it had any evidence to refute certain of
the charges on the other side ; if it couldn’t refute
these particular charges, His Honor said, they
alone would settle the case. Defence admitted
that it couldn’t refute these charges. Judgment
for petitioner. Case stopped. Costs stopped.
Nothing left for a shocked lawyer to do but gather
up his bag and go.
N.S.W. public service was badly scared
one day last week, when the dailies simul-
taneously stated that the See Government con-
templated a drastic scheme of percentage reduction
on all salaries over £150. But this proved to be
premature, the Premier announcing that strict
economy was to be enforced, and that while no
salary-increases would be granted, no reductions
were yet contemplated. To show how careful the
Govt, would be in future, the Assembly next day
sanctioned the introduction of Bills deeming it
expedient to build a bridge over the Hawkesbury,
a railway line from Cobar to Wilcannia, another
from Bogan Gate to Bulbodney (wherever that
is); the Tuckian flood escape scheme (the Hunter
River is nearly dry at present), and one or two
minor matters which will throw a few more thou-
sands on to the loan votes; while at the back of
the D.T.’s issue intimating the threatened reduc-
tion appeared an elaborate design for the intended
North Shore bridge, which, as it would cost only
about £1,780,000, was hardly considered “ class
enough.
Melb. Age adds a further howl to the
Victorian “stinking-fish” cry by declaring that
the State deficit will be £800,000, instead of the
£450,000 estimated by the Treasury officers, and
the £650,000 put down by Treas. Shiels as his out-
side calculation. This persistent and well-organ-
ised declaration of public insolvency, when it
comes from such sources as the Melb. morning
journals and the Irvine-McKenzie-Robert Reid
crowd, obviously has some deep-laid motive be-
hind it, and there are weird rumors in the southern
city just now of a Flinders-lane and Collins-_st.
conspiracy to cut wages on the one hand and raise
prices on the other. Also, the 48 Rich Landlords
who veto Vic. legislation are holding back the
Factories Act, and when the time comes for
settling the matter one way or another, will point
to the general diminution of wages outside the
provisions of that measure and will insist that
“in the awful condition of the finances and the
general stagnation of trade,” it is the duty of the
luxurious tailoress and the overpaid fellmonger to
go back to the old sweating terms.


ORNAMENTAL hair.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 80s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
|3F” Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia..
CRAIG & AITKEIXT,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
EVERY MAN IS
More or less interested in the curative powers of
MEDICAL GALVANISM and the proper method, of ,
applying this wonderful agent. Before purchasing j
Electric Belts or Batteries send for our valuable FREE '
BOOK entitled “THE MODERN TREATMENT OF
DISEASE BY ELECTRICITY.” It will tell you what
you ought to know, and may save you time, money
and disappointment. Address —
ARTHUR HALE & SON,
44 Ca.stlerea.gh Street, Sydney.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending- stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
RX CORO’S
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 128. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia —PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St. f
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales~
F. H. Fauldingr & Co., 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Beat
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
[Completely overcome Deafness
Sand Head Noises, no matter of
j how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. &
Address— A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
CHLORODyHE.
safes:
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEW 3 ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ Jf J were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
FINSEN’©-
HAEMATIN - ALBUMIN
TABLETS
A Certain Cure for POVERTY OF BLOOD,
ANAEMIA and WEAKNESS, from whatever cause
arising. The latest wonderful discovery by the great
Danish Scientist,
PROFESSOR NIELS. R. FINSEN.
GIVE THEM A TRIAL!
Extract from The Baptist of August 1, 1902“ We
can speak from personal experience and testify that these
Tablets are an invaluable remedy for weakness occasioned
by Poverty of Blood, Anaemia, and other similar diseases.
All Chemists, at 3s. 6d. per Box.
From Life, for Lovers of Art, Beauty, and Chic ;
Carefully Selected Assortments, Cabinets, or
Stereos, with Illustrated Catalogues and Minia-
tures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s. Money Order or Cheque
on London.
English, French, and German Rare Books
Explain wishes and requirements, and full satisfaction
will be obtained.
R. GEIMNERT,
89c Faubourg St., Martin, Paris, Franco.
London Bankers:
L. and SOUTH WESTERN BANK LTD., Head Office
WOOL. PRODUCE. CRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
/X C~~?*T* samT -T BROKERS OKTLY.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of t a p j
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING ... ... THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER
CENT.
WAREHOUSING
/"(Including Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
I Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
| ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
‘0 \x Wobis' realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
„ under
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing. Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
BALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT. _ . v
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by tle o
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage lB allowed. Ci
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., e .
AGENTS FOR McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney
(Corner of
Clarence Street)
19, 21, 23 King Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES . . .
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pumps, Turbine Fans.
(Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
Messrs. GREENWOOD & BATLEY LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors, Pumps^ej^
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
inaniatort Cables, Wires, Tapes, etc.
IS
'
1
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOBD unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
cure-alls.
Vigor and Strength
■for all who
desire it.
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 1886, bas so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your feilow man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
Seels. tJo.e Truth, it; costa KTothing!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, cor. Russell & Collins Sts., Melbourne.
mm
home cyclopedia
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 86 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy ; Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk, Is 9d.
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is.
Tiie Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, is posted. Camille, Is 3d.
Secret History of tiie Court of England, 1 6 post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. Tiie Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history), Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle's Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Ooates), Is 6d posted.
Ciievasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappho, Is.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather hound, my price, 15s post paid
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is Cd.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big Book
Catalogue post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
Dr. J. W. GIBBS’
. Electric Massage Rollers . .
For use on Face and Body.
For NERVOUS HEADACHES,
NEURALGIA and RHEUMATISM
—a specific. Removes Wrinkles.
Gold, 21/- Silver, 16/-
Post Free. Pamphlets Free.
AFRICAN AGENCY COMPANY,
Box 440, G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
Soi’e .Eyes I BligHt!
USED 300 YEARS.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
Never fails. Restores Eyelashes.
HAD FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT.”
Ask your Chemist for this little book.
r GOUT v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state ot
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOul ana
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies. _
“Don’t shout”
" I hear you. 1 can hear now
as well as anybody.
"‘How?’ Oh. some
thingnew— The Wilson
Common-sense bar-
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can’t see them
113 HUW, /Via v i
they're invisible. I wouldn t
know I had them in myself,
only that 1 hear all right.”
The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
working parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other do-
vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
,J. CM AIMERS. 223-23 8 Collins St.yJjetP.,
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
With Patent RUBBISH b’KKI
ancl HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES, lin-lisi
American and made to order
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belts
and all Instruments for the re-
lief and cure of deformities, &o.
Send for Catalog ues, Par-
ticulars, Jcc.
DENVER BROS.. Surgical Instrument Maker*
281 GEORGE ST.,SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
Sufferers from Deafness or Head Noises
desiring a compete and permanent cure
should write to the L. it. VERNON" 1 O.
tO HUNTER ST., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet dose ib'ng an entirely new s. Jf-
applied method which we will send post
free on lmntioning this f ai er.
<9
Header, why not he able to use the
most mysterious ami powerful force 01
nature ? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can pe -
, form all the many man ellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
I conquer pain ; win reluctant affection,
I gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour It.costsyou
nothing to find out all about it. 1 hale
' just issued in hook ft rm a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
’tlypnolisltl, which fully explains
\ the mysteries and secrets
gof the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive tiling of the -cind
ever published. For a short
time I wi.l send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. ( tamps) to cover
postage. Older to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a o ance of |
a life-time. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
STHMACURE
RRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault's Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short tiie paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GRIMAULT & Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists^
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdestek & Tkuman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
soi.d in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B. —Insist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.


presents that mill Please
;Vy?OU cannot possibly be disappointed by visit-
W'k ing us, so come here whether you have
a definite idea of what you want or not.
We offer you the biggest variety and the most
reasonable prices it is possible to offer.
If you have not seen our new Catalogue,
ask us for one. If you live out of town
send us your name and address on a post-
card and you will get one by return mail.
> o. F 4708
Silver-piaCed
ancl Pearl
Bread Fork
11s 6d.
No. F3462.—Fine Leather, and Silver-
Mounted Pocket Book, 10s 6d.
No. F3939.—Uent.’s Silver Hair
Brush, 21s.
No. 374 A.—6 Silver-plated Tea Spoons
and Tongs, 10s 6d.
No. 363.—A1 Silver-plated Sugar Tongs,
3s 6d.
£
No. 253.—501 id Silver Match Box, 10s 6d.
Silver
Glove
Buttoner,
ls6d.
r/7;i
No. 20.—Gent.'s Opal
Bing, 18ct. gold,
£4103.
No. EBo3l.—Tasteful 9ct. Gold Bangle, £ll7s. 6d.
No. B4B9o—Dia-
mond Ruby and
18ct. Gold Ring,
’ £3los.
No. M.—lsct. Gold and Opal Fly Brooch, JEll5a.
No. 120.—15 ct. Gold, Diamond and Ruby
Brooch, £2 7a 6d.
No. 121A.—15ct. Gold Anchor Brooch,
£ll2s 6d.
No. E6251.—9ct. Gold Bird and Heart
Brooch, 12s 6d.
15ct. Gold Heavy Band Bracelet, £4 48. Smaller, £3.
No. E6659.—9ct. Gold Engraved Bracelet, £ll7s 6d.
No. 193.—Links, 9ct.
Gold, 15s 6d. 15c.
Gold, £llos. Silver,
4s 6d.
i
No. 197.—Links, 9ct. Gold,
£1 ss. 15ct. Gold, £2 ss.
Silver, 6s 6d.
No. E77o7.—9cfc. Gold,
Pearl and Turquoise
Lace Brooch, £1 la.
Fine Diamond Marquise
Bing, £4O.
No. 241.
Diamond - set
Scarf Pin,
No. F6l2B.—Silver-plated Toast
Rack, 12s 6cl.
No. F 3562. —Silver Cabinet Photo.
Frame, 16s Cd.
No. E 6444. Engraved
A 1 Silver-plated Napkin
Ring, 5s 6d.
No. E 8499. —Purse and Card Case,
4 Silver Corners and Lock, £1 Is.
No. 359. —Silver-plated Breakfast
Cruet, 13s 6d.
No. E 7072.— Silver
and Ivory Rattle,
13s 6d.
Fine Opal and 15ct.
Gold Heart, £5 5a
Smaller, 755.
Silver-plated
Spectacle
Case, 14s 6d.
GOES TO THE
uni'
¥
1
II
The DR. MCLAUGHLIN CO.,
85 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 167 E Swanston Street.
Every sick man knows how false have been the claims of quacks who promised
to cure him with drugs. Drugs never cure weakness, never stop the drain of
vitality, never cure a weak stomach (they cause a good many). Drugs excite, stimu-
late for a time like whisky, hut they have no substantial strength in them, hence they
never cure. There is only one certain way to regain strength, to renew vigour, cure
Lame Back; Rheumatism; General Weakness, Nervousness,
indigestion, and in fact any Chronic Ailment. The way is to fill every
organ of the body with Electricity while you sleep.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric gelt
AND
FREE ELECTRIC
SUSPENSORY^-*
ives s rength direct from Nature. It develops all the vital organs and renews vigour. It will perma-
cure he worst case of Weakness in three months after every other remedy has failed. Stop drugging
1 * y° u *kank us for thus urging you. It will lay the foundation for your future happiness.
Marine Department, Edward-st., BRISBANE.
Dear Sirs,—l suffered for a long time from
general weakness, debility, and nervous ex-
haustion. I tried everything—change of cli-
mate, etc.—but your belt gave me the first real
relief I ever had, and ultimately cured me.
I can never thank you enough for what you
have done for me.
Yours truly, JOHN KING.
5 James-st., NORTH SYDNEY.
Dr. McLaughlin 00.
I have been wearing one of your Electric
Belts now for about three months, and I am
glad to say it has done all you claimed it would.
Bricklayers, or men who have to work in a
stooping position, will find it a great thing for
JOHN R. GRIFFITHS.
DOOEN P. 0.,
Near Horsham, Vic.
Dear Sirs, —
For years I suffered from Sciatica and weak
back, but a few weeks’ use of your Electric Belt
cured me. I had tried many remedies, but got
no relief, and consider your Belt a wonder.
DANIEL MURRAY.
Your Electric Belt has restored me to strength after a long time of
as my wife is bUt ifc haB r6ally perfonned a mirade « far
BhortUme a andis n now a well t . rOUbled "" f ° r y6arS 5 she WOre the Belt a
As a Salvation Army man of 18 years standing I am pretty well known
and want others to know what your Belt will do P y ’
ILLABO, N.S.W., 18/8/’O2.
S. JEWELL.
Dr. McLaughlin 00. KALGOORLIE, 4/8/’O2.
Replying to your inquiry after my health, I am just debating leaving
the Belt off. There has been a wonderful improvement in my condition,
in fact I hardly know I was ever queer.
If I can help your cause, you have my support.
JAMES HUGHES.
Free Book.
showing how the Belt is applied m different ailments beautiful illustrated free Books, giving cuts and
find some friends amomrst them m ■ tS ' glves t , he nam ? s of many people cured, and you mav
post paid. Costs you nothing. * ave cures in nearly every hamlet in the country. Book sent sealed and
__ Call haVe " free PmCtiCal t63t - C ° nSUlt US ’ and if will cure you, your restoration to health is certain.
Mail Facilities,
WORLD r rg6 f k “f 11 ° r \ omo treatment business in, not “ AUSTRALIA. ” but THP
WORLD, having more than twenty large branches, consequently our system if «ie most tmpgfe
You write for book, and it leaves bv return mail ah a- .
statement it. Als our Belts , re Mat £*Z& 't&ftffgS.f* *" "“*> *>»
C NES are requited, and this, of course OPTS OFF the LARGER PART of THE EXPENSE to the patieut.
tdfwehlre" d Sirc°tShT!^^^*S^ry iU a!!uh , “ ! °' 'l'" “ ch “? ! "' W ' do "™ ™t b.cure the
e^.Thi„ h r„ e „,"SSS£ Co S°t"d."w h concernB telling a .ortai'S^E" ‘oAi &ToJ


n
* Sf v
Cheapest House In Australia for EDISON
Phonographs * Records
“BIJOU,” with 6 Records £1 10 0
EDISON “ STANDARD,” with 12 Records .. 610 0
EDISON "HOME,” with 24 Records .. .. 810 0
COMBINATION A 1 “GRAND,” taking both
Large and Small Records, with 12 Records, 6
Concert (sin.) Records and Large Horn ..10 10 0
EDISON RECORDS, English and American,
per dozen 100
CONCERT (Sin.) RECORDS, per dozen.. .. 3 0 0
Send for Splendid New Illustrated Catalogue containing
5000 Selections to choose from. Electric Fans, with
Battery, £5 ; Electric Bike Lamps, 21s ; Flash Lights,
Scarf Pin Lights, 10s 6d ; Vapour Bath Cabinets, 20s; &c.,
Free.
Records can be posted to any address. Machines care-
fully packed and forwarded to any part of Australasia.
REEVES & CO.,
KING WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
JUST PUBLISHED, Imperial 4t0., Handsomely Bound,
Price 7/6.,
Representative Australians
FORTY PORTRAITS, after Sketches from the Life, by
CHARLES NUTTALL.
A Book of Historic Interest.
A Book for Every Drawingroom.
A Book for Presentation.
Sydney: EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO., Ltd., and all
Booksellers.
Marvellous Effects.
YOUR PICTURES IN
SOLID RELIEF.
"• Stereo
Weno
For Stereoscopic Pictures upon
KODAK daylight changing cartridge
Film.
Price, £6 6s. Only.
Send for new Illustrated List and mention
this paper.
KODAK Limited
284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
AND OF ALL DEALERS.
Newman’s
Antiseptic Pastilles.
The Best for all Affections of the Throat.
TRY THEM. PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
S. HARRIS, M. P. S., Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Telephone 2288. 82 KING-ST., SYDNEY.
Free for Asking:.
WRITE to us ami we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong- and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking-, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to Proprietor, Box 135, G.P.0., Adelaide, S.A.
LADIES >•
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
LOXCF.HNING YOURSELVES.
AnDr.Ess —L.U.5., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
PBOSPFCTUS OF
The Commonwealth Mutual
Insurance Company, Limited
(Non-TarifF)
Authorised Capital, £250,000,
In Shares of £1 Each,
PAYABLE TWO SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE ON APPLICATION AND
TWO SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE ON ALLOTMENT.
It is proposed to offer at present 100,000 SHARES, and declare the Company formed when
50,000 SHARES have been subscribed. The balance of the Shares will be reserved for future issue
under terms of the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS:
HON. J. H. CARRUTHERS, M.L.A.
JOHN UPWARD, Esq. (The Metcalfe Bond).
WILLIAM RAND, Esq. (Director 00-operative Wool and Produce Company).
CLARENCE BRIDGE, Esq. (Managing Director John Bridge and Co., Ltd.).
ARTHUR RICKARD, Esq. (Managing Director S. A. Joseph and Rickard, Ltd.).
WILLIAM RIGG, Esq. (Chairman of the Illawarra Steam Navigation Co.).
Bankers : BANK OP AUSTRALASIA.
Solicitors : JOHN WILLIAMSON and SONS.
Broker: J. E. DUOKER, Mutual Life Buildings, 135 Pitt Street, Sydney.
rPHE company is being formed on non-tariff lines for the purpose of carrying on Fire, Marine, and General Insurance
■*" Business (excluding Life) in New South Wales and the other States of the Commonwealth, as the Directors may
deem advisable.
Assurances have been given of substantial support, and it is confidently expected that the Company will
immediately secure a considerable business of a sound and profitable nature.
It is proposed to gradually cultivate a high-class Insurance connection on safe lines. The Management will be in
capable hands, and the best expert knowledge obtainable will be employed in launching the Company, and putting it
on a sound business footing from the outset.
The aim of the Directors in the management will be care and economy ; the latter as far as it is compatible with
efficiency and the most rigid and exacting inspection of risks.
Experience has demonstrated on average results that there is no safer or more profitable investment than the
shares of a prudently-managed Insurance Company. With first-class securities in this market at figures so high it is
difficult to see where f?bsh funds can be placed to advantage—such an advantage is now placed before the nublic in
the COMMONWEALTH MUTUAL INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED.
There is ample room for this Company. The plan has been well thought out, and, without doubt, the formation
of a Non-tariff Company will meet a want which, of recent years, has been growing more apparent.
In event of the Company not being formed, the application money will be returned in full.
Forms of Application for Shares Obtainable from the BroJcer.
HAIR
TONIC
The Hair Renewer of the flge.
All Chemists. 2/6 per bottle.
W. RICHARDS, Proprietor,
ifiA Pitt Street, Sydney,
THE
‘PLUM’
f Pi
THE
‘PLUM’
/''J.ENTLEMEN. —This razor Is superior to any other. It Is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
Ujte a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exaot kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7a Bd.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Prices
/Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 2It.
I Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Sole Agents
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETITIOW.
WINES n ° B 4 °* °> SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS. CORDIALS. &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
GOOD
HAIR FOR ALL!
Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY" IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
OS’ For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sidney.
CONSULT
HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all o!hemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
Amusements.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Great Society Actors, MR. & MRS. SYDNEY DREW,
in their one-act comedy, When Two Hearts are One.
L’lncomparable PAUL CINQUEVALLI.
Splendid Reception of Miss FLORRIE GALLIMORE.
MARK ANTHONY, TOM WOOTTWELL, EMILY
LYNDALE, CHAS. W. WALKER, IDA MAY, THE
DIAMOND DUO, WILLIAMS QUARTETTE, MISS
LULU ZESCH, &c., &c.
Prices as Usual. Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
RICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at2.3op.m.
Madame LYDIA YEAMANS-TITUS.
Mr. FREDERICK J. TITUS.
7 THE FLORENZS 7
THE HARVEY BOYS. ADA DELROY.
Professor FRED. HARCOURT. RAY JONES.
SAM HOLDSWORTH.
Prices—2s. 6d., 25., Is., and 6d. Plan at A'., m’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Lessee Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hendy. Treas., Julius Grant.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, headed bv Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN.
EVERY EVENING. Special and Elaborate Revival
for a Few Nights of
THE LADDER OF LIFE:
or CORDONS
TO THE FRONT
The Greatest Dramatic Success ever produced in Melb.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* Sole Lessee and Director, Mr. George Musgrove.
Manager .. .. Mr. T. P. Hudson.
FRI., AUG. 29, Last Night of Sweet Nell of Old Drury.
SAT., AUG. 30, The most Phenomenal Success of the
present season, a Romantic Comedy in Four Acts,
“%rNKE apd MEN.
MISS NELLIE STEWART as PECCY.
Assisted by Geo. Musgrove’s New English Dramatic Co.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Wednesday Matinees.
KJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
** Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
EVERY EVENING. The First Time in Melbourne,
ROBIN HOOP,
THE FINEST REPRESENTATION OF COMIC OPERA
SINCE “DOROTHY.”
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan's.
ATHEN/EUM HALL, COLLINS STREET,
** MELBOURNE.
SHOW WEEK. SHOW WEEK.
Commencing' WED., SEPT. 3rd, 4th, sth, Cth.
McADOO’S Original
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS
RECOGNISED AS BETTER THAN EVER.
POPULAR PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
R. H. COLLINS, Manager.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
■ Lessee .... .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Under the Sole Direction of Mr. George Musgrove.
Manager .. .. Mr. T. P. Hudson.
Commencing SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 30th,
First Appearance in Sydney of
George Musgrove’s New Comic Opera Company
in
A CHINESE HONEYMOON.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Nicholson’s.
I YCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■■ Lessee Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
LAST 2 NIGHTS of BLAND HOLT’S Latest Melodramatic
Spectacle,
WITH FLYING COLORS.
BRIGHT ! BRISK 1 BREEZY !
SATURDAY, AUGUST 30, RIDING TO WIN.
POPULAR PRICES —35,, 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
SOLE LESSEE .. ... JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
Manager ... ... .. Frank Weathersby.
THE SHERIDAN SEASON.
FOURTH WEEK and CONTINUED SUCCESS
of
THE OPERATICAL COMEDY,
THE LADY SLAVEY.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY at 2.30.
PRICES—3s,, 25., Is. 6d., and Is. Box Plan at
Nicholson’s. Day Sale, Early Doors Only (6d. Extra to
All Parts), at White Rose Confectionery, corner of Royal
Arcade and Pitt Streets ; also Box Plan after 5 o’clock
week days and 1 o’clock Saturdays.
DALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Lessees .. .. Messrs. LEE and RIAL.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 7.45. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
THIRD WEEK of the WILLIAMSON
MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY
in the Charming Comic Opera,
S A. IST T O Y.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Nicholson and Co,
m
Rupture.
The great Amercan In-
vention—“ Dr. PIERCE’S
- Magnetic Elastic Truss”
' is accomplishing the most
« marvellous cures. Noth-
; ing like it ever before
known. Reliable retain -
er and actual curative tor
■ Rupture. Gives ease and
comfort. Established over a quarter of a Cen-
tury, its fame has extended to all parts of the
world. If ruptured investigate at once. Send
a stamp for pricelist and Booklets on Rupture.
Address Magnetic Elastic Truss Co., 206 Post
St., San Fran cisco, U.S A.* orW. H. Soul & Co.,
Australian Agents, 160 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S W
The Roman
Hair
Restorer
Produces Brown and Black Hair.
Price 1/6 ;by post, 2/3. )
An inexpensive and
certain preparation for
renewing and restoring
to its original color the
hair of the head, beard
and whiskers.
Largely used by the Roman ladies for preserving their
magnificent tresses. Nourishes the roots and removes
dandruff ; increases the quantity, and renders it glossy
and supple ; does not stain the skin nor soil the linen. If
your hair is falling off or turning grey, use this.
CAUTION.—This being different from most prepara-
tions, other kinds should be refused.
JAMES BRINSMEAD and CO., Chemists, ST. HILDA.
All C 111011313 sell it.
At a recent impressive Brisbane military
drum a JnHf 04 t} ? e very second-rate
wS fi^ b ! nd t0 R lay the “ D ead March”—
winch they did to a polka step !
Writes “Koorawattia ” :—
ducted of 9/8/, °2 : “ The Boer war was con-
under y aS SUch an enterprise could be,
d 4 & eneralI y admitted.” Great
Heavens 1 And this of the man who let loose the demons
of devastation, and initiated the policy of farm-burning.
not haveWnTA San " a ’ s Post . Roberts’policy could
8unS™?n 1 fetter, and was mainly responsible for the
surrenders in the Southern districts. Pity he departed
Maf lT'r But the . constanfc victories of Oe Wet during
E 1 l ir, T, , Un l e T sfc have hurt the old man’s vanity®
started hebegan his war per proclamations, and
rebels d tf v „declaring all in arms after 14 days as
suffer In person and property accord-
t ° Humane, wasn’t it? Then he commenced
° burn _ all farms within a radius of ten miles,
,, armo *'ed _ and supply trains were at-
tacked, and in addition fine the owners and threaten
hem with confiscation. The man who blew up houses,
urned furniture, destroyed mill and crops, removed
stock, etc., if some of his troops happened to be sniped
irom any of the hills in the neighborhood of a farm ! The
man who compelled prominent Boers to travel on trains
through “ dangerous ” country. According to a Parlia-
mentary return, manifestly incomplete, 189 houses were
burnt in Oct. and 226 in Nov. All the above occurred
“"her Roberts and not under Kitchener. Humane 1 1
Had Bulletin’s phrase read : “ As humanely as such an
enterprise could be under Roberts,” it would have been
much more to the point.
[ ‘ Koorawattia ” is wrong in some of his facts,
xor instance, Roberts prevented the sending of
prominent Boers on trains as a precaution against
wrecking when that device was adopted by
irregulars.—Ed. B.]


h
7a
Ya
\/1
/:Vv
W.
W
&
l Lt.
■V
yVs
p'
W/
£■&-
I. v \
f'K
*\
vX
SUFFERERS.
What you were you may never be again.
In this lies the lesson we would teach.
Perchance it may be of benefit to those still in the flesh
z
ft'
7a
WHAT THE WORLD’S SCIENTISTS SAY.
THAT half of the nervous affections from which people suffer arise through imperfect and insufficient nerve force. Rob the body of animal magnetism, and paralysis and dis-
order of the chief functions follow. Pluck a flower—it withers. The principle is the same. It is one which involves Death.
Physicians of the widest experience and highest attainment declare that where nervous disorders arise from structural changes in the great nerve centres, the treatment
which lends itself with direct adaptability and possessing most curative results is that of Electricity combined with medical treatment. Many eminent professional medical experts
assert this fact—that where nervous exhaustion and functional disorders are present, symptoms show themselves in sleeplessne s, great muscular debility, headache, backache, mental
incapacity, loss of appetite with dyspepsia, and constipation, weariness or a condition of weariness and unrest. The intei by and variety of these symptoms indicate how greatly
the system is affected.
Electricity adopted judiciously with restorative medicines have powerful reconstructive influences. An electric ”J. -vigorator ” worn around the loins for a few hours
nightly will effect a great and lasting change by pouring into the nerves that necessary vitality which being absent forms the nucifis of disease.
Read the two following testimonials from persons who have suffered and tried the treatment. Then if you are ill, consunrthe Specialists and speak likewise.
TESTIMONY.
JOCKEYS, CYCLISTS, ATHLETES, SEND
US VOLUNTARY AFFIRMATIONS.
Mr. Joseph Megson, Champion Cy-
clist of New South Wales, declares :
“1 suffered from nervousness for some
time. I was on the point of a constitutional
break-up more than once. The merits of
your Electric ‘ Invigorator,’ as supplied to
me, are beyond question.
(Signed) “J. MEGSON, 1902.”
(There is no mistaking this striking testi-
mony.)
] Certain Reliable
Cure for (Den.
MEN want to know where they can be
cured. This is most important to
them. THEY WANT THIS KNOW-
LEDGE STRIAGHT AWAY. Perhaps
they hear of others cured. People COME
ALL THE WAY from the Gulf of Can
pentaria and Western Australia and GET
RELIEVED OF THEIR TROUBLES.
The SPECIALISTS of the INSTITUTE
cure, not only WEAKNESS IN MEN,
but they TONE UP THE REPRODUC-
TIVE SYSTEMS, and so thoroughly reno-
vate the body generally that the thought of
calamity dies permanently. They have in
their secretarial chamber OYER 10,000
TESTIMONIALS from men CURED of
EXHAUSTION and GENERAL DE
BILITY. The system of the Specialists is
entirely new, and is in effect a combination
of Medicine and Electricity. Electricity is
Life, and an Electric-“ Invigorator ” worn
around the waist for a few weeks, instilling
into the system a gentle, remedial current,
re-invigorates the entire nervous system.
Worn whilst a course of medicine is taken,
this system will conquer the worst case of
“ weakness ” endured by men.
Anyone suffering from Chronic forms of
DYSPEPSIA, INDIGESTION, CON-
STIPATION, ORGANIC or FUNC-
TIONAL NERVE DISORDERS, PAL-
PITATION, EPILEPSY, NEURALGIC
AFFECTIONS, HEADACHES, BACK-
ACHES, RHEUMATISM, LUMBAGO,
INSOMNIA, ENFEEBLED CONDI-
TION, GOUT, should write to the
SPECIALISTS and state fully their symp-
toms. Patients write to the Institute from
all parts of Australia, and are treated in
thgir own homes as well as if they had
visited the Specialists personally.
n&r.
1
ib
M
i
\\w
•^jr
>Sr
a
W,
b
0
&
$
5
a
K 6
W 6
a
K
TESTIMONY.
BARRISTERS, LAWYERS, AND COMMER-
CIAL MEN SPEAK WELL OP THE NEW
SYSTEM.
_ Mr. Jack Marsh, the brilliant profes-
sional bowler and cricketer, of whom so
much notoriety has recently arisen in
cricketing centres, says:—
“ Heavy strain entailed by bowling in
many matches caused intermittent pains and
weakness in my loins and legs. To remedy
it I tried your Electric ‘ Invigorator.’ I
| can recommend the treatment to all athletes.
“(Signed) JACK MARSH, 1902.”
“Witness: F. Ironsides.”
Our Electric
“Invigorators.”
WE do not ask you to believe that an
“ Invigorator ” will entirely cure
you of disease, but our “ Invijgor-
ators,” used with our medicines, accom-
plishes that which neither electricity or
medicine alone can do. The two together
have wonderful renovative effects, and con-
tain reconstructive elements in cases of
degenerated and enfeebled constitutions
which amaze the medical Faculty. Our
“ Invig’orators ” are the only ones tested
by two of Sydney’s leading electricians.
We hold certificates of genuineness unpos-
sessed by others. We have several classes,
which vary in value according to cost of
construction. Our £lO instrument contains
the same current as those at £1 (which we
specially recommend), but it also contains
2oz. of 18ct. gold, which raises the value.
If you require a test privately it will be
given you.
We ask you to read these prices and then
give one of these instruments a trial. What-
ever you suffer from where your natural
strength and nerve power is lacking, you
will be strengthened. The desire of a man
is to be with the victors, not the vanquished.
To be strong, hearty, healthy—that is your
desire, and it is the effect of the use of this
instrument.
PRICES:
Copper Plate ... £3,
Silver Plate ... £1 10s.
Solid Silver ... £3.
Solid Gold ... ... £lO
(2oz. 18c. Gold)
(There Is no reason why you should pay more.)
OUR MEDICAL LITERATURE.
RECENTLY offered to the public is the INSTITUTE’S ANNUAL PUBLICATION,
“Clinical Experiences,” ELEGANTLY BOUND, ADMIRABLY PRINTED,
PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED, DESCRIPTIVELY WRITTEN ; it is a medical volume
all should possess. The BOOK CONTAINS 550 PAGES OF MEDICAL LITERATURE,
150 FULL-PAGE PLATES and MEDICAL ILLUSTRATIONS, over 30 Chapters Treating
of General. Diseases, with SPECIAL ARTICLES upon Poisons and Antidotes, Burns, Scalds,
Drowning, Invalids and their Treatment, Sick Room Advices, Snake Bites, Fevers, etc. This
makes it invaluable to people in the outlying portions of Australia. It is a work everyone
should obtain. It is practically given away. It is a handsome addition to the Household
Literature, and is in itself A WHOLE LIBRARY OF FACTS. 1/- is the only charge.
FEES FOR CONSULTATION.
ALTHOUGH the Specialists are undoubtedly the Leading Pathologists of Australasia,
being known far and wide by reason of great professional achievements, which are a
series of professional triumphs, their Pees are not considered to any person who may be ill and
require an opinion of their case. THIS IS GIVEN FREE OF CHARGE. The only cost
of securing these opinions will be the cost of writing. Letters are replied to punctually and
are treated with professional secrecy. In all cases a reply is assured within a few days to the
farthest parts of Australia. All medicines are posted to all addresses safely packed from obser-
vation, and patients can have their remedies sent to any address and under any name they
chose. In all cases free opinions are given in cases of disease. This is done in the service of
suffering humanity.
CREDENTIALS.
TheMEDICAL BOARDS of NEW SOUTH WALES YIOTORIA SOUTH AUSTRALIA, ENGLAND, and AMERICA prove the PHYSICIAN-IN-CHIEF
El Y^^^ft rouBhOTt and that he is a man of exceptional professional attainments. NINE CERTIFICATES of QUALI-
FICATION and REGISTRATION are open daily for inspection in the great consulting chamber of the INSTITUTE. SIR DOMINIC CORRIGAN, Babt
Physician to the late honored Queen, speaks of the Physician-m-Chief thus ’
“I entertain a high opinion of Dr. WALLACE, both personally and in respect to his professional qualifications.”
British Army Medical Staff.
Lato Consulting Staff Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne, and
FREEMAN $ WALLACE
and SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director Electro-Medical Department.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, Physician-in-Chief".
Medicines packed Free From Observation and sent to all parts oF Australia.
Letters treated with ProFessional Secrecy and promptly replied to.


According to a recent cable, Rosebery says
“ there shall never be an independent Parliament
at Dublin.” It is, as a rule, the small, weak man
who whacks down big, strong prophecies like this.
J’here are, possibly, a few million years yet for
tilings to develop, and silt up, and shake down
I here may be an independent Parliament almost
anywhere before things are done, and there may
also be an independent cannibal running things in
■London, or where London used to be, or an
Egyptian named O’Rourke reigning in New York
Almost anything may happen with time—plenty
L.M.D.” ; I often wonder if, suddenly,
all men were to be gifted with God’s sight—
i naked souls of men and women stood face to
ace without any previous warning—what would
i W° u ldn’t they flee from one another
it ?i -possessed swine. T/uit’s almost my idea
° tlelJ. lo be put up on a jasper elevation just
as 1 am, and inspected by my generation, and—
understood. No wonder Adam shinned up the
tree when he heard the Lord coming. I’m afraid of
being understood.” I’m game to say it. Aren’t
Its time we learnt the elements of the Art
of I ruth.
f SN3fd OBINIOd’UVinO HID
[cm> s/oo 9 HanvqNvaa o
Seven Prize Medals Awarded*
Neither scratch nor
spurt, the points
being rounded by a
new process.
Attention is also
drawn to their new
“CRADUATED
QPDIP<s OP
PFNS ” Each pattern being made in jour degrees of flexibility and Points.
A B K your Storekeeper for an Assorted Samp.e Box of either series. Works: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND
earne’s Bronchitis Core.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and. a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE lIIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.— Dear Sir,-■-I aiv> writing' to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was hot severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved, lam glad to say that the jtwo lots
Of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
•
Dear Sir. —I suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely chred me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria- W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,— Kindly forward me a
Mnall. bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
nsl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
•had a bottle from you before for niy little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
bas not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. UAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vio.
“ Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir, —I am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bot tle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to iny mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER."
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SIIE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-strcet, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
" Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronehilis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I bad not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus —as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than 1 have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.’
Extract from n letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNES BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows:—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and Bhe wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough .that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.’’
A Five Fears’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALT, BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Tears’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“ Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely.
11. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED,
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes “After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’a
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist,, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot- office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. 'orwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
The SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
1901, Limited.
Wobks: ’O, La.l£e TUa.Wo.rra. <56 MILES FROM SYDNEY)
SMELTERS
AND
REFINERS
Of
SILVER
LEAD
BULLION
Assay Offices, General Offices, Store and Sulphuric Chamber.
MAKERS OF
S. Co, of Australia
AND
‘ ILLAWAREA”
BRANDS OF
SOFT LEAD.
Highest Price paid for CrOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAQS, and JEWELLERS’ SWEEP, &c. Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
For all information regarding Rates, apply to HEAD OFFICE, DAPTO. HOYT, Manager.
A. E. RudLdler & Go., 4=o lE»A -fcfc Street, Sydney, General Agents.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
“ ‘ Food*
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive, and Digestible.
i<= <inld bv Chemists. &c., Everywhere
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
t) find. My wife sounds
the praise of * Benger’s
Food ’ everywhere.”
“ If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes,
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Kemoves Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
RfletnMs _ . Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., UMITED, SYDNEY,
./A. OTHER
CURATIVE
Tout indigestion means a starved body, a
dull brain, shattered nerves, an aching head,
tired limbs, torturing pains, restless nights, a
broken constitution, and premature old age unless
you root it out at once with Mother Seigel’s Cura-
tive Syrup. This great herbal remedy exerts a unique
curative and invigorating influence upon the organs of
digestion, and has brought health and vigour to countless
thousands of half-dead dyspeptics. It did all this for Miss
C. Haltoit, and it can do the same for you. She suffered
agonies for quite three years from indigestion and anaemia,
and found a perfect cure in Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup.
Writing from New St-., Brighton, Victoria, she says: “When I
first started taking Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup I was a
/ living skeleton, pallid as a ghost, and weak as an infant. Now I
have a hearty appetite, and can go through a day’s work with any
woman in Victoria.” Such testimony affords conclusive proof that
Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup
CURES INDIGESTION.
SEVILLE ORANGE
MARMALADE
In I lb. Round * Flat Tins.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
s.enss
Size
of Spoons •
4Va & 6%
THE
Coronation Spoon
A Special Treasure to British
People in Far-off Lands.
In Solid Silver or Gold. Price from 8/-, post free. Designed
and manufactured by Pearce and Sons, Silversmiths, Hud-
dersfield, England, by whom it is being sent to all parts of
tihfl
o
liver
historic Gift for 1902.
If you have an 1887 Souvenir of Queen
Victoria's Coronation you know its
value, and will lie anxious to secure
early the choicest Historic Souvenir
of KING EDWARD VII. Tins
registered emblematic spoon is a
new departure in souvenirs. a nire combination of the
beautiful, valuable, historic, and useful No marriage
presents will be complete without a set of these emblem. tic
spoons. A gift for every Child of' the "Empire born in
tins Coronation Year, fio Souvenir could be more highly
appreciated. Send for illustrations of Sizes and Prices.
The Historic Gift of 1902.
n,p , DfiSOription— The Bust of the King, surmounted by His Crowa
“earing the Rose, Thistle, ami Shamrock—Great Britain and
hel.l W T,.io v? S V pport the R °y at Monogram, E.K. VIL, I!)02, and are up-
ihe i,,!„.!! S ~u . l eay es, each representing one otf our Great Possessions;
Plant ~!,!! Bmtuig forrn the Empire Stem. The Boots of this Empire
TiJlit ;!r!*t£ ou S“ t le Koyal Arms, the Emblem of our Gonstitution,
i % ht into the Heart of the Peoples.
Attention and Care given to
Colonial and Foreign Orders.
Colonials and those Abroad will, affect ii real Saving of Money in
purchasing direct from Messrs, vPkakck & Sons. Send for their
pictorial Price List of Solid Silver Novelties and High-Class
PEARCE & SONS, Silversmiths, &c.,
Huddersfield,; England,
■ m.
jr-y
s {lk
c
©
/T*
e
B
."SJ
O
I
T
| 19 1 02 !
1 O ■ 4
.•N
•j ■
■ill
/ R” N“ '
o 8 3 4 91
The office of Under-Secretary for Mines in
N.S.W. has now been vacant for three or four months.
It is an open .secret that there has been a battle royal in
and out of the Cabinet over the filling of the office and
that the “ envy, hatred, malice and all uncharitableness ”
of Yellow and Green animosities have been most pro-
nouncedly in evidence. If Premier See had any real
backbone he would defy priest and parson and promptly
appoint the man whom he considered best qualified.
* * * *
Report of Metropolitan Coal Co., held in
London, reminds N.S.W. that her absolutely most
valuable asset, coal, is exploited almost wholly on behalf
.of foreign capitalists. The Metropolitan co. (whose pit is
at Helensburgh, on the South Coast) earned last year
£22,172, the greater part of which goes abroad. At a
rough estimate three-fourths of N.S.W. colliery scrip is
held abroad by English and Scotch capitalists. The A. A.
Co., which besides being the biggest coal-owner in-
N.S.W., is also the biggest land monopolist, is almost
purely a British institution.
• * • •
“Jimmy 8.” : Particulars to hand of an explo-
sion at a Welsh colliery, whereby 8 men were killed,
strongly suggests an amendment to N.S.W. Coal Mines
Regulation Act, renderingcompulsory the adequate water-
ing of all dry and dusty mines before shot-firing. The
jury found that “deceased persons met with their death
from an explosion of coal-dust caused by shot-firing, the
place where the shot took place being insufficiently
watered at the time.” There is always the possibility of
a small local explosion of gas developing, through the
presence of coal-dust, into a general explosion. N.S.W.
Act clearly recognises this danger. Rule 12 section d
forbids the miner to use or have possession of any iron or
steel (liable to strike fire) pricker, tamper, stemmer or
scraper (tools used in blasting operations), or to stem a
hole with coal-dust or dry coal. One would naturally
think that watering as an explosion-deterrent would
promptly be adopted by a practical mine-manager. But
evidence, at an enquiry into a recent mining disaster in
Newcastle district, showed that the return air from a
district worked with safety lamps actually passed over a
stow-bord in which men were working with naked lights.
That forces the conclusion that many a precaution would
readily commend itself if the company were held directly
responsible for all “ accidents.” Failing that, it can
hardly be considered iniquitous to place the proprietor on
a somewhat similar footing to the miner in the rule
quoted.
* * • •
When Adelaide heard, the other day, of the
finding of a 12ft. coal-seam in the far north she felt
another flutter ; but the wet blanket, which she knows so
well, soon came in the shape of further news that the find
was almost as much a pyrites-bed as a coal-seam.
Adelaide knows that she can’t expect coal to be hauled
from up there to compete with Newcastle in the
city ; but she knows that it would help on the lon»--
dreamt-of transcontinental line if she could find that
Nature ahead and fixed up a coal depot midway.
Rutherglen (Vic.) co-operative parties are up in
arms against the enforcement of the law which provides
that working shafts must have proper ladderways. They
argue that there is no necessity for ladders—that the man
who can’t haul himself up a 150 ft. shaft hand-over-hand
on a quarter-inch wire-rope has no business to go below.
But the law says ladders are necessary to guard against
accidents, and can’t take into account the eagerness of
men, perhaps forced by poverty, to risk their lives for
their bread. At Clear Creek, near Bathurst, a field run
by small parties, the mills have been idle for some time
for want of water. Last week rain fell and all the bat-
teries started, when an inspector appeared on the scene,
and ordered the immediate cessation of work because
none of the drivers held certificates. The miners com-
plain, arid state that in Bathurst, or any other town,
there will be found drivers of mill engines, sawmills, and
factory plants without certificates. But one wrong can’t
be righted by adding another wrong. No untrained man
should be allowed to fool with a boiler, on a mine or any-
where else, even if he is readv to take the risk.
* * * *
“H.G.”: One-half the annual deficit of £365,000
in Vic. Railway Dept, is represented by the difference in
price between coal in N.S.W. and the same coal in Vic.,
resultant upon the excellent organisation of the shipping
ring. This has been going on for years, and, apparently,
neither the officers of the Dept, nor any Minister of Rail-
ways has regarded the matter as curable. A smart,
energetic, fighting Commissioner like the late Eddy, of
N.S.W., would have settled the matter within a month.
The cost of the purchase and equipment of a big collier,
run by a crew under the Department itself, would be
more than repaid in the first three months of its service.
This is saying nothing of the possibility of Vic. Govern-
ment buying up a handy N.S.W. colliery, and thus pro-
viding its own coal supply, if it can’t get it in Victoria.
* • • *
The first person to be fined under the Truck
Act of N.S.W. was Newman, M.P. for Lucknow. He runs
the local mine, and also the local store, and was fined
because he wrote to a miner: “ I cannot afford to let you
run any further (he owed £4), and if you cannot pay for
your tucker you had better get your time and find
another place.” The miner resented this intimation, and
was shortly afterwards dismissed, for, as alleged by
Newman, insubordination in declining to work in a
certain part of the mine.
• * * •'
A Bill now before Maoriland Parliament, to
have the 8-hours-day reckoned from “bank to bank”—
i.e., from the time the miner enters the mine until he
returns to the surface—is being hotly opposed by the
mining co’s, who are lobbying with much energy. The
measure, however, seems in a fair way to become law,
although certain Parliamentary rail-sitters would like to
vote both ways.
* • * *
Value of Maoriland’s gold and silver output for
last year was £1,819,041, an increase of £340,560 on pre-
vious year’s output. Though this is the largest return
since ’7l, the number of working miners steadily
declines, there being some 800 less than in the
year immediately preceding. As larger amounts of
capital are being spent on development, the miner
becomes less important.
* • * •
A Westralian Mine-owners’ Association has
been formed in London, and the executive committee of
15 includes many notorious market manipulators.
Whitaker Wright and Horatio Bottomley are conspicuous
by their absence—the list seems incomplete without
them. In a vein of unconscious humor a London journal
says: “ So influential an assembly ought to do much to
purge the Westralian field of the conspiracies and evil
machinations which have characterised it in the past."
* * • •
N.Q. (more particularly Towers’) people, not
satisfied with the good things which they have in their
own districts—many languishing for want of proper
attention —have embarked on a dredging enterprise on
the Rio D’Oro, in Brazil. They have spent £16,000 in
acquiring concessions from the Brazilian Govt, and erect-
ing a dredge. The latter is to start work next month.
60,000 shares in the co. said to be worth 21s. each in the
market. If the reports as to.the prospects of the dredg-
ing area are to be regarded in the same light as the
report as to the market value of the shares, writer
wouldn’t give much for the show. The Q. man who
would not jump at a return of £6O On £l6 on the eve of
producing operations being started must belong to a
different class from those who are associated with local
mining. The wise Queenslander knows that, as a rule,
it is a sensible thing for him to talk himself out of his
stock —if he can do so at a profit—before the battery
becins to talk. It can tell no lies.
' * • * .*
The luck of the miner. Some months ago an
explosion in the Vesuvius (O. Towers) shaft resulted in
the death of one man and severe injuries to two others.
One of the latter, W. White, during his convalescence,
occupied himself with trenching his garden on Moonstone
Flat and struck a reef. Result for 16 weeks’ work, 520 z.
smelted gold, which, with sand and sludge, gave him
something like £l2 per week.
• • • *
Lake View manager reports that “ a cheaper
system of stoping is being started, and a considerable
saving in explosives and labor may be looked for.” This
statement, writes a correspondent, is rather interesting,
considering that in some of the L.V. stopes they are in
the habit of shooting the ore down on the cyanide sands
used for filling. The shovellers dig the ore out and send
it to the surface, accompanied with a considerable portion
of sands. This is what they call a “ cheaper system of
stoping.”
The north end of Kalgoorlie field, from which
so much was expected by sanguine exploiters, is sick
unto death. Hannan’s North, Hannan’s Reward, Golden
Zone, Reefers Eureka, and many others are either defunct,
or else handed over to tributors’ bent on rooting out the
scanty chutes of pay-ore which exist in some of these
shows.
* * * *
Not satisfied with existing processes, L. Y. Con-
sols’ management is about to try the Elmore oil process
on concentration of the sulpho-telluride ores. A plant,
capable of treating 50 tons daily, is to be installed without
loss of time. This new departure is a nasty knock for the
much-vaunted Diehl process, which superseded the fur-
nace plant on the co.’s mine and was boomed by its spon-
sors, Bewick Moreingand Co., as quite irreproachable.
• * * »
The water trouble in Cosmopolitan, W.A., is
still acute, despite all denials. At No. 5 level 400,000
gals, a day are making, and it is impossible to make much
headway in consequence. Of course, the difficulty will
sooner or later be surmounted, but meanwhile mill is
rapidly overhauling developments and ore reserves are
being steadily depleted. Mine is being very efficiently
equipped, and will make a big splash once things are
properly fixed up.
• • • •
An English paper, taking for its text, “Ignor-
ance is always expensive,” cites this as a case in point:
“ For long past the N.S.W. public works have-been en-
gaged in dredging out the harbors at the mouths of the
Moruya and Shoalhaven rivers. Incidentally they have
also been employed in the expensive operation of dump-
ing thousands of pounds worth of gold into the sea. The
workmen made the discovery that the sand they were
dredging up was rich in gold, so rich, indeed, that by
running the stuff through an automatic gold-saver it is
certain that the gold recovered will more than pay all the
expense of the harbor-making operations.” The Owe’S.,
so far, has refrained from informing the public that he is
carrying out one public work which is directly remunera-
tive. Who will say now that he is not modest ?
• * * •
Cabled that recent discoveries show that the
main series of the Witwatersrand reefs extends 30 miles
to the eastward of the hitherto-known boundary. Also
that the whole area had been secured under option by a
“ powerful syndicate.” Thirty miles of it! Anyhow, the
Transvaal was well worth lying for, and (in the name of
God and Liberty) murdering other people to grab.
• * # *
Bathurst (N.S.W.) has been gloating over a
“ pile ” of water-worn nuggets, weighing 620 z., discovered
in a patch at the old Ophir diggings. The sleepy city
was further galvanised by a report that a marvellously
rich reef had been struck at Native Dog Greek—it was so
rich that the miners’ picks stuck in the gold. A faithful
scribe visited the spot, and reported that he would be a
hard-working miner who would make tucker there.
Bathurst is once more asleep.
* • • •
Briseis yearly meeting in London was a happy-
family affair. No growling. All compliments. Expecta-
tions high. Report showed that the water-race cost
£52,000, or £30,000 over the estimate. Supply of water,
1,200,000ga1. per hour. Engineer estimates, as the result
of extensive prospecting work, that the value of tin on
the property is £2,000,000 above original estimate.
“ Little ” Langford was at the meeting in all his glory.
He is a marvellous worker, who has more electrical
force in him than the average man of twice his
physical proportions. He made a magniloquent
speech, which sent all the shareholders away happy
in the _ belief that they were associated with an
enterprise which has all the essential elements for a
big success. The walls of the room were covered with
splendid photos, of the mine and works, touching which
and other matters a correspondent writes : “ Everything
being above-ground, a mine like this lends itself to be
well illustrated by photographs. lam quite sure there
was never another case where London shareholders could
so well see their mine so many thousands of miles away
as they could in this instance. It was a great idea, and
Langford deserves credit for it. The shares are likely to
go much higher before the end of the year. Despite' the
world-wide mining depreciation, these scrip have held
their own, and, but for the collapse in S’Africans and the
condition of things in Australia, they would be at least
25 per cent, higher to-day.” Any material appreciation
in the value of Briseis shares will have to come from
actual results, and these will soon have to be forthcoming,
to maintain their present prices.
The Drought.
Writes “ 11. F.” :
Thh Bulletin is doubly right re the tacit conspiracy of
the daily press to minimise the drought. Few Sydney
residents even commence to understand what is happen-
ing. London Times correspondent apparently wired
part of the truth, only to be contradicted by poli«
tical Falstaffs, Barton and Copeland. The poai*
tion in N.S.W. is this : After a series of dry
seasons, in which the subsoil hardened to rock and the
creeks dried up as never before within the memory of
living men, the just-past 12 months followed without one
soaking rain. In many places three following crops have
failed, and it is now impossible to plant a fourth. Last
summer, paddocks that had been carefully saved as a
stand-by had all the long, dry grass burnt by bush fires.
The ground is as black now after seven months as though
the fire was of yesterday. Hay, straw, and lucerne stacks,
saved by the thrifty fora possible dry time, have gone long
ago. For months past the railways have been at their
wits’ end to find trucks for the produce that is being
rushed from town to country. All this time the stock is
dying, and when water is to be had, death is slow. The
hair becomes harsh and rough ; a range of sharp hills rises
along the back while gullies and ridges form down the
flanks ; there are two empty craters over the hips. Day after
day the body contracts, till, a living mummy, it is but a
few inches thick, the head appearing wide out of all pro-
portion. The beast makes no moan or groan, but stands
about moveless, hours at a time. It is well not to look at
their eyes, for there is a look there at times that will
haunt you. The hides of starved stock are very light,
and the tanners give little for them. The poor owners
were the lucky men, their stock died nine months ago ;
the more well-to-do have been using the last shilling of
money and credit only to reach the same end after long-
drawn agony. They started hand-feeding bravely and
with light hearts—“ There must be rain soon ! ” but, one
by one, as time has passed and the price of feed risen,
they have thrown up the game like bluffed card-players.
Probably two-thirds of our stock is dead, this, in many
cases, after more than their value has been spent in feed.
Only a few more dry weeks, a little further rise in fodder,
andN.S.W., away from the coast-line, will be a desolation
without hoof or horn—a desert with only empty buildings
to mark where homesteads stood. The'average bushie in
ordinarily bad years is kept going by the storekeeper, who
is backed Jby the merchant, who is backed by the bank.
Of late this process has gone far past the limit of safety ;
and, finally, the word has passed round, falling like the
first earth on the coffin of Hope—“ No more credit! ”
“ You refuse me food for my starving family ; you ask me
for cash when you know I have not had a bean for a
twelvemonth? What shall I do?” That is the question
of thousands of cookies this day. As for the storekeepers,
they are grey and haggard ; those with the hearts of men
must soon be tramping Sydney streets. After all else are
dead, the absorbing effort is to keep the working horses
alive—the last shilling, the last bite of feed is saved for
them ; carting taken at unheard of prices if only they can
be kept alive. The bush is ranged for a chance wallaby
to fill the pot; yet they are so scarce, so weak and thin
when shot as to be hardly worth carriage. Though the
farm is idle, there is plenty to do ; five, six, and 10 miles
the dray and tank have to go daily for water, join
the file of waiting carts, and take turn at the pump.
The old bush and orchard trees are dead, only
saplings and late-planted have life, and they are wilting.
The edible scrub is gone, and the bare ground littered
with the trees cut down long ago to tempt stock to eat
them. Box trees are ring-barked by horses as high as
their teeth would reach. Such is the state of the country
40 miles from Sydney—a state described by travellers
as simply luxuriant compared with “Wayback” and
“ Furtherback.” And our fat representatives in London
say : “ The evils of the drought are grossly exaggerated.”
And this is the story of our great “ natural indus-
tries ” —the ones the Freetrade party bids us stick
to and rely upon, instead of going in for manu-
factures vvhich don’t collapse every dry year. The
hand-fed iron and steel foundry looks more pro-
mising than the hand-fed sheep, and the bonused
woollen mill or hat factory seems much more
hopeful than the bonused jumbuck.
Sydney Telegraph tells that a Marrickville
(Sydney) two-year-old Minorca hen t’other day
laid a double-yolked egg weighing 7lozs. This
egg is said to measure 9fin. circumference length-
wise, and B§in. in girth.
’Murkan press amenities. Recently an
American editor, referring-to a contemporary:
“We cannot bear a natural fool.” T’other editor :
“No doubt the editor of is correct in his
statement, —but his mother could.”


News Extraordinary
if!!
Cs*J
/ &
■ ± £^CfO
2^5
Indigestion and Biliousness Ousted.
Pains in the Back and Sides Dispelled.
Another Great Success for Bile Beans.
INDIGESTION is the inability of the digestive organs to treat food consumed. Many
and varied are the causes, ill of which are invariably predisposed bythedefective
working of the liver. One of the most important duties that falls to the lot of this
OTganls to supply bile to the stomach and digestive organs, to assist in the treatment
of foodSSimed, and when through some cause the bVer fails in tins important duty the
digestive organism is unable to carry on its work, and indigestion results. Ihe bile having
E mfsdiSd runs riot through the system, becomes mixed with the blood and
biliousness is the result. It is useless to attempt to treat these complaints locally, the root
of the trouble, a disordered liver, must be readied and stimulated to proper action. In
such cases a medicine is required that will strengthen and correct the livers action, in
order that it may secrete increased quantities of bile, send it through the proper channe
to flush the digestive organism, and carry off all waste matter from the system. Such a
medicine is Bile Beans for Biliousness as many past sufferers are ready to testify. Mr.
Albert Harris, of Chappie-street, off Bromide-street, Broken Hill, when interviewed
said : —“ Yes, I owe my present good health to Bile Beans, there is nodoubt. What d
they do for you?” “Well, I reckon they cured me of Indigestion and Biliousness.
Two years ago I was a barman in the York Hotel, Adelaide, and I suffered severely from
Indigestion. The pains in my back were very bad and my appetite was poor. I had no
energy. I used to try various pills and medicines, and lastly I gave Bile Beans a trial. I
found them splendid. After taking a few doses the pains in my back disappeared my
appetite improved, and lam now as well as possible. I consider Bile Beans the best liver
pill on the market and will never be without them.” Bile Beans
reputation for curing Biliousness, Indigestion, Constipation, Headache, Debility, Jri es,
Female Weaknesses, Anemia, Pimples and all skin eruptions, change of season ailments,
and in fact all ailments that owe their origin to a disordered liver or kidneys. Obtainable
from all Chemists and Storekeepers, price 13£d. per box, or direct from the Australian
Depot, Bile Bean Manufacturing Co., 39 Pitt-street, Sydney.
m
Rhymes with
1
m
r
£v
/
>
*
\f
and so does
PEARS
Atlas.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Long since, out of high Olympus,
Through gleaming gulfs of air,
Like a wild, white star shot downward,
Hermes, the Messenger.
As he flew, the skies around him,
Like a flag of stars, were furled—
Till he came to where strong Atlas
Upheld the heavy World.
The great, broad-shouldered giant
Strode darkly on his road,
But ever to Zeus made outcry
To rid him of his load.
Quoth Hermes, laughing lightly :
“Thou soon shalt take thine ease—
The Gods’ Fool I have-brought thee,
The Strong Man Hercules !
“ And he shall bear thy burden,
And he thy yoke shall wear;
And that he throw off neither
Henceforth shall be thy care.’*
Then Hercules the Worker,
With lip of pride upcurled,
Took, smiling, on his shoulders
The burden of the world.
But Atlas sprang upon it,
And, with triumphant air,
Cried “Fool of the Gods, ’tis written
That me too thou shalt bear ! ”
From Pole to Pole his body
Lay stretched at godlike ease ;
His arms clasped the Equator,
His feet were in the seas.
He laughed a laugh Titanic—
“ O Hermes, I have won
A sturdy Beast of Burden
To bear me round the sun 1
“ O Hermes, I shall ride him
With iron bit and rein—
And lest he should prove restive
I will chain him with a chain.”
And Hercules the Worker
With groans the burden bore ;
But the more he groaned and murmured
Proud Atlas laughed the more.
And, if he shook down Empires
In throes of angry pain,
With bolt and rivet, Atlas
Straight fastened them again.
And round the sun for scons,
The world, with all its zones,
Rolled to a dreadful music
Of laughter and of groans.
Then came a small sweet spirit,
To Hercules said she—
“ Take heart again, sad Giant,
My name is Liberty.”
And age by age she labored,
By days and nights she wrought
With rasp and file of Knowledge,
And acid keen of Thought.
“ Thy chains are nearly severed,
The day draws nigh,” said she,
“ When, with one wrench convulsive,
Thou shalt once more be free.” ;
The day came—and the God’s Fool
With eyes far-shining trod
Upon the earth—his burden
Of old—a demigod.
Ye say this is a Fable—
Too long the Hour doth wait —
Ye fools and blind—this moment
’Tis knocking at the gate.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
The Burial of Mrs. Moggs.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Impressive? Oh Yes! Mister, funerals at sea,
is very. I was a mourner at one, and this is how
it came about.
“We was taking out two passengers;
Mr. Moggs, an old gent, as had made a pile
of stuff in the colonies, and an old girl as he said
was his mother. He was a bachelor and had come
home, a’ purpose to fetch her out to keep house
for him. Both of ’em was religious. Mr. Moggs,
as he told us himself, was a reformed character.
He promised all hands hell-fire an’ damnation
every other day, as if he reckoned on running that
part of hereafter on his own. But the old woman
was the two ends and the bight of a tangled
nuisance—always paddling away for’ed to the
galley, for hot water or something; she’d bump
up agen a chap just as he’d be letting go a cuss-
word, when she’d open out on him, something
awful. Besides she used to hang her nasty little
bits of washing all over the after-end of us—always
taking the running-gear for it too. We’d be
puttin’ the ship about, maybe, 1 Mainsail aul an
the hands a-bursting of theirselves on the weather-
braces— a-pully-hauling their arms out, without
getting an inch—one of Mrs. Moggs’s flannel
petticoats bein’ jammed hard and fast in a block to
leeward. it weren t petticoats it was
stockin’s or some such female parcellin. She
was a regular Jonahess; we’d nothing but foul
winds and greasy calms as long as she was aboard
of us. , ,
“We’d been beaclmed for a week, somewhere
down about the Line. A blue shark—the biggest
as ever I’ve seen—had been bangin’ round under
the counter for days. Mrs. Moggs wouldn’t hear
of the old man trying to catch him, as she said it
was sinful to destroy one of God s critturs, and
that afternoon she was a decoratin’ of us up as
usual, when she over-reached herself and jumped
into the water just ahead of the shark. You may
bet there was no ‘beg pardons’ or ‘by your leave,
mum!’ with him— he just rolled over and
swallowed her in two bites. The skipper an her
son was on the poop at the time, and Mr. Moggs
was terrible put-about, to think that his mother
should go so sudden-like, after her paying her
passage and although what troubled him more,
he said, was her having such an unchristian
burial. So him and the Cap’en makes it up to
catch that there shark.
“The hook was baited with a junk o’ pork and
hung over the stein, an’ Mr. Moggs he spent all
that afternoon praying hard and chuckin’ small
lumps of salt-pig astern to entice the brute; but,
as the mate said, ‘ the old lady, like enough, was
powerful hard to digest, an’ the shark wasn’t
hungry yet.’ The third day the Cap’en has him
on tne hook; we gets a bowline round him and
he’s yanked inboard. Tho cook opens him up —
careful—but, though there was evidence of Mrs.
Moggs having been there, there wasn’t much of
her left.
“The old man ordered all that was there to
be put in a bucket, along of a cuttle-fish or two, a
couple of beef-bones, and a condensed-milk tin,
which was so mixed up together that we couldn’t
well sort ’em out. All hands cleaned theirselves,
and when the bell for’ed was tolled, laid aft on to
the half-deck, standin’ solemn and sorrowful,
whilst the Cap’en read tho burial service. One
young Cockney-chap among us starts a grin, but
when he catches the chief mourner a-eyein’ him he
tops the snigger off with a sob—the most of us
sobs then, and Mr. Moggs seemed powerful
pleased. The bosun he sat on tho t’ gallant-rail
with the bucket, under the Union Jack, and,
when the old man gives him the wink, drops
the remains and other things over the sido.
Mr. Moggs hung over the rail for a good spell,
watching the milk-tin and beef-bones zig-zag
down out of sight, for fear another shark might
come along and bury his mother again. And ho
gets grog served out to us, plentiful, that day, for
he said ‘ the amount of sympathy shown by tho
crew ’ did us credit and ‘was most gratifying to
his feelings. ’ And from that out we mado a record
passage ; so you see, mister, she must' have been
a Jonahess ! ”
m. l.
F. MARRYAT NORHIS.
Tales of The Penance Track.
A RUN OF BAD LUCK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
It was a run of bad luck for No. 23. He and
his brother had got two years each for horse-
stealing. The brother was delicate, and was
received into gaol hospital, from which he sent
word asking 23 to send him a “ chew.” No. 23 was
a painter, and his workshop looked out on the
back-gate of the hospital, so, after “muster,” he
dexterously avoided the eye of Warder Lanigan,
and slipped “a quarter” under the gate, knowing
that the tobacco-hungry consumptive would be
waiting on the other side. This done, he cheer-
fully proceeded with his business. But Warder
Goodman, from the balcony of the workshops
overlooking the lane, had seen the “move.” No.
23 was promptly loeked-up, awaiting the arrival of
the visiting “beak.”
The spirit of generosity is promptly strangled in
gaol. A prisoner caught in the act of distributing
any surplus “indulgence” of tobacco,
4ozs. of tea, and lib. of brown sugar, which
he receives weekly, after a year’s servitude)
is placed in “lock-up cells” and charged with
“trafficking.” The fact of receiving no return
does nothing to invalidate the charge. .Money
value for unused “indulgence” will be given by
the Government, but philanthropy is a crime,
punishable under a special rule.
The day prior to No. 23’s trial for breach of
prison discipline, all the poultry belonging to the
visiting magistrate died sudden and violent deaths
from poison. So 23 faced a soured magistrate and
got seven days dark cells.
A medical student once “doing time” promul-
gated a theory that occupation for the mind during
dark-cell treatment could always be obtained by
tossing a button into the black, inky darkness,
and then getting down on hands and knees and
searching for it. The device has served to pre-
serve the mental balance of many who otherwise
might have gone “queer” under the treatment.
No. 23 thus spent six days busily employed.
Hundreds of times the button was found and tossed
up again and again, the hunter joyfully finding
after groping on hands and knees over the cell.
On the morning of the seventh day, the button ,
after being thrown up, did not return again.
Thirty-six times the hunter crawled over the
floor—no button. Now, imagination lies in the
pit of the stomach, and bread and water are hardly
a sufficient weight to put upon it, so No. 23
started to think things. He rushed the cell door
and kicked, but two doors were between him and
Warder Williamson (who was a trifle deaf), so no
good resulted. Then someone laughed in the
corner of the dark cell, and it was all up. No. 23
kicked the door, upset the water-pot, and
shrieked ; the waves of curse-encrusted darkness
welled up from the corners and smothered him.
Invisible hands, clammy with horror-sweat,
grasped at his throat and choked him. When
Warder Williamson called him into the corridor
for Governor’s inspection it was too late.
* » * *
Months afterwards, when an enlightened prison
official suggested the abolition of dark cells as a
punishment, and they were converted into light
punishment cells, a sweeper found in “No. 17
Dark Cell” a trouser-button, securely fastened
in a cobweb near the ceiling. In the criminal
ward, Kenmore Lunatic Asylum, a prisoner is
still hunting for that button.
N.s.w.
THE WASP.
William Naismith, author of “ A Young
Draper’s Guide to Success,” recently published in
London, is a fine sample of the young men in the
socks department who sell off job-lots from highly
moral motives. Says William :
I know no-better employment than that of a draper for
training a young man in social and commercial accom-
plishments. He comes into contact with refinement, to
which instinctively and officially he must pay respect,
that (sic) unconsciously, he absorbs some of the essence
of refinement; and may by a wise selection choose that
form of it which his judgment and expediency suggest as
the most useful to him.
In late hours hides almost every serpent of malignant
fang, and the peril is that the glistening evils are mis-
taken for the innocuous glow of permissible recreations.
Cosmos is incarnate punctuality. ,
It is not too much to affirm that the daily obligation of
buying and selling, especially selling 1 , can be developed
into an art of the most exquisite potency and pleasure,
and ought to be studied to that end, of course with the
The few who never experience the thrill and fascina-
tion of ambition, of the witchery that encircles a young
draper’s future with alluring haloes, cannot unagme the
exhilaration —I had almost said the rapture— which those
feel whose purpose and hope are nourished by the
judicious hand of ambition.
Verily, there are no humorists in the rag-trade.


Tired All the Time
A Terrible Feeling of Exhaustion. Unfit for Business. Debilitating
Effects of Hot Seasons. All Easily Removed.
Mrs. C. McDonald, of Northcote,
Victoria, Australia, sends us her
photograph and says:
“I was a great sufferer from some
of the most terrible forms of indiges-
tion. I was all tired out from morn-
ing until night. My languor made me
unfit for work or business of any
kind, and I was about ready to give up
discouraged. My liver was all out of
order, and this made me suffer from
.constipation and biliousness. Two
remedies completely cured me. I took
Ayer’s Pills to act on my liver and
keep my bowels in good condition,
and Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to purify my
blood, strengthen my nerves, and put
my digestive organs in a healthy
state.”
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is of great help to almost every one in this debilitating
climate. It prevents exhaustion, keeps the nervous system in good order,
and takes away all that tired feeling. Don’t wait until you are down sick.
It’s much wiser and easier to prevent sickness. When the stomach fails,
sickness comes very easy. Profit by Mrs. McDonald’s experience and put your
digestive organs in a healthy state.
We must caution you against imitation Sarsaparillas. Be sure you get
$»” There’s UP tP yrith this old, reliable medicine.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
The Oldest, Surest, Strongest, and Best Sarsaparilla
Ayers Pills act on the liver and keep the bowels in good condition.
Prepared by DE. 0. C. AYEB. & CO., Lowell, Mass.. TT. S. A.
Wgm
27
YEARS’ SUCCESS
AS
iyi&
the UNIVERSAL REMEDY fob W«k
.M
®*JS
Coughs, Colds.
ff Asthma, Bronchitis, 11 *
Influenza, Whooping
Cough, Hoarseness, &c.
HAS MADE
Oxbridge
£yngTonfe
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY TO EVERYBODY.
Important Notice:
SUBSTITUTION* —There are sr, many imitations
i of this successful, and therefore popular, remedy that
■mk &i* °f utmost importance ym should use the
OWBRIDGE ’' when buying 1/ung Tonic,
and TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE .
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIQGE, M.P.S., Chemist, Hun.
Sold everywhere m bottles, at Is. lid.
2s- 9d., 4s. 6 d., & 11s., by all yw. <hw
Colonial Medicine Vendors.
y^P%gi
COPYRIGHT.
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to - the East.
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
EC HAM’
pills 1
Ij’Oß Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no Action. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.’’
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion. Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud ob’ Health the W hole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beeeham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieineiit
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is and 2s 9d each.
MELLIN’S
FOR INFANTS FOOD AND INVALIDS.
Is adapted for use 'from birth.
Send for Pamphlet and Samples to GOLLIN & CO., 562-4, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
50, Clarence Street, Sydney; Grenfell Street, Adelaide ; and Wellington.
Mellin’s Food Company for Australia and New Zealand, Ltd., 56, Cannon Street, London, Eng.
•* "**
»in
02INE
BOX
&
i
*//.
ttfs
Crozine Blacking
is a waterproof polish that produces a brilliant and permanent
gloss, which will not rub off. Shoes polished with “ Crozine
Blacking’ wear long, because it is an oil dressing, which softens
the leather. “ Crozine Blacking ”is guaranteed to be absolutely
free from all harmful substances, and will be found to be the
most satisfactory dressing made for all walking boots and shoes.
Sold almost everywhere. If not found, write at once to
C. L. HAUTBIAWAY Z* SONS, Boston, Mass., U.SA.
8
The Universal liemedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
dinnefordU
[MAGNESIA]
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS p“T oe “
French’s Acting Edition.
Rare Books
French Novels
Books <| Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Boohs Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE.
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL— COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
DON’T MISS THIS
S^rONPTmmT OTANIC ( REMEDIES will CURE YOU -
So CONF I DENT are we of this that we will send to anv
by ff theEESULT AL sP ° f Charffe) and abid «
SoErS Address- and y ° Ur Ultlmate CUBE
* - B S? TAN,C INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.


FOR
WATERPROOF GOATS
RUBBER BOOTS
*» GOLOSHES
* * /'•
PERDRIAU and COMPANY,
(between Bond & Hunter Streets) 270 GB©i°gG StTSGtj SydVlCy
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
C. ELDEIDGE & CO-,
DYERS & GLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
~(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from, all the colonies promptly
- - to.
SIMPSON
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send, for Catalogue!
Pocket-Knives & cutlery
Celebrated
MARK-
m
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers* 93 York-St.
SYDNEY/
Also at
“TH3ES BLOCK,”
Collins-st., IVIELBOURNE.
S. FREEMAN # SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES j
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAP OFFICE : WTHTABD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
9NISO AS
±1
Niviao MVO
f
m
&
&
v
rc9
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers —M, BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENCLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
Portable Drills, Radial Drills, Drill Presses, Lathes, Planing
Machines, Slotting Machines, Punch and Shears, Steam
Hammers, Pipe Screwing Machines, Metal Saws, etc., etc.
WOOD WORKING MACHINERY.
Ingersoll-Sergeant Rock Drills and Air Compressors, Knowles rumps, Gates
Rockbreakers, Roger Rolls, Vertical and Horizontal Engines and Boilers of
all kinds, Engineers’ Fittings and Mine and Mill Supplies.
11IPITF FOR prices and particulars.
60 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
533 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Fremont Street,
San Francisco.
A 1 ;. : o-.
Rescued
From Drink
by & new discovery, odorless and tasteles , w ich any lady can
give in tea, coffee or food. It does its work so silently and surely
that while the devoted wife, sister or daughter looks on, the
drunkard is reclaimed even against his will and without his
knowledge or co-operation. Send name and address to THE
EUCRASY CO., 62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY, N,S.W., and
they will send you booklet and particulars free,
h. p. crony s co.
Machinery Merchants,
Melbourne & Sydney.
HAVE IN STOCK-
Blake's Steam Pumps.
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery.
Mundy’s Hoisting Engines-
Empire Co.’s Laundry Machinery-
American “All Steel” Pulleys-
Harris ‘‘Champion” Lubricating Oils.
Mason Reducing Valves-
Ludlow Sluice Valves-
Korting’s Injectors and Ejectors-
Tanite Emery Wheels,,
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
CLOTH, 300 PAGES.]
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS. PRICE, 4s. 6d.; POSTAGE 6d.
Sole Distributing Agents—
j Edwards, Dunlop & CoLtd,, Sydney and Brisbane,
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Solo Agents for-
Soiarine Meta! Polish
Billett’s Patent Tuyere
“Vitaphone” Talking Machine
Dodge Standard Wood Split
Pulley
Atlas Pipe Wrench
“Abbott” Germ Proof Filter
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10hS. w-CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Catered for
on Most
Banquets and
Private Balls
Reasonable
Terms.
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
■ : irr ,
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotei
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
