

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC
PIG STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
Best.
V
mmm
“The Standard
«f\
Highest Purity-”
The l\nceL
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWA
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS
AF
Prices and
Particulars.
Descriptive
Catalogues
on.
Most
Up-to-Date
Machines.
MEDICAL, CERTIFICATE.
“ Ararat (Victoria), 2Bth Aug'., 1902.
** During the past few years Eczema has become of very
frequent occurrence, especially in children. In the treat-
ment of, this troublesome affection the usual medicinal
remedies failed in many oases to give relief, and I was very
pleased to hase a new preparation, named ‘ Oleac,’ put into
my hands for trial. I can recall to my mind three cases of
children in which the usual remedies had no beneficial
effect, and the application of ‘ Oleac ’ according to the
printed directions removed all the irritation of the skin.
I have also heard of many adults using the ‘ Oleac ’ with
great benefit.—JAMES SMEAL, Surgeon, &c., Ararat
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin writers, Oloth, 300 pages ;
price, 4s. 6d.; postage, fid.
SOLIS DISTUIBUTINU AGENTS :
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & Do., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
KIRCHNER & m
Sawing & Woodworking Machinery,
Vertical & Horizontal Band Mills,
rt THE WORLD’S RECORD
(< araxxd Frix,” Paris, 1000.
(HIGHEST POSSIBLE AWARD.)
SOLE AGENTS *.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C 0.,» *t «~t. SYDNEY.
“ HERVEY’S RACKAROCK”
17 Years’ Unbroken Record as a Standard flustraUan Explosive. Cor. CLARENCE & KINC STS., SYDNEY
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831. WHISKY.
hobaht.
JS**—
fiadieys Orient fioteL
DUNEDIN, N-Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Grade).
J. A. TURNER - - P
etor.
PERFECT
"water
ASSISTS
digestion
SHOULD
[BE]
I CUD
Po
Invalid
Golden Sh
V.O
PENFOLD'S
WINES
No. 0 Olaret
No. 1 Claret
Ghablis
Muscadine
Championship of Australia, Melbourne, 1902.
Championship, Adelaide, 1902
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2| S 3J 4 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
_/7 -/9 -/10J 1/- 1/2 1/6 IAI 2/8 3/4 4/-
1/2 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 2/11 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made .by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
IN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade — vie., the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
9ct. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertiser,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0. or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, 15ct
gold, filled, Ss. fid. Illustrated catalogues sent free.
SlMS,and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers- .
Our only address —
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, MELBOURNE. AUSTRALIA
Mining and Dredging Plants. Engines, Boilers, &c.
Fowler Traction Engines.
The Clyde Engineering C?y, Lip
Desiccating Plants.
Hopper Waggons, &c.
i&SIJI
PROOF
9;
USE
Head Office:
10 BLIOH ST., SYDNEY
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf, Company
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY ? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying 1 from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Order' HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our fflustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will- deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent, more for your requirements.
93 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
FAS
OUK SPECIAL No. a
£8 18/6
Oelirered at any Wharf »r
h\S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
FF
A NICE PRESENT.
The New Combination PIN-
CUSHION, THIMBLE & BEEL
HOLDEB, nickel plated, plush
top. Clamps on to any table
by means of a spring. Price,
only 25.; post free.
Star Novelty Company,
229-231 Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
fTHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
i-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
•WHEN buying a KEROSENE GAS STOVE insist
’ ' on getting a noiseless
FA
JUPITER
The Very Latest
Invention.
Burns Noiselessly,
Without Smell
or Smoke,
Perfectly Safe.
Obtained First Prize
wherever exhibit
Stocked by all Leading Hardware Merchants and
Storekeepers.
Sole Agents for Australasia—
Kelson and Robertson,
17 10FTUS ST„,
The Bulletin.
Yol. 23.—N0. 1189.]
.Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Htnwiwpg.
[Saturday, November 29, 1902.


THE LATEST BOOKS BY THIS WEEK’S "mamT
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Rowntree, Poverty (cheap edition), 3s, postage sd.
•Sidgfwick, Lectures'on the Ethics of Green, Spencer, &c.,
10s. p. 9d. Magnay, Man of the Hour, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Cooper, Gentlemen from Goodwood, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Lyall, Tennyson (English Men of Letters), 2s 6d, p. sd.
Lawson (Henry), Children of the*Bush, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Hope (Anthony), The'lntrusionsof Peggy, 2s6d&3s6d,p. 6d
Waugh’s, Tennyson : a Study, 9s (id, postage fid.
Boldrc-wood, Ghost Camp, 2s 6d & 3s Gd, p. 6d.
Hutchinson, Living Rulers, Vol. 11., 95., p. Is Id.
Poynting & Thomson, Properties of Matter, 10s 6d, p. au.
Buchner, Last Words on Materialism, 3s, p. 6d.
White, The New Christians, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. ed.
Stephenson, The Beautiful Mrs. Moulton, 2s Gd & 3s od, p. 6d
71 CASTLEREAGH ST. s SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King Sb.) &at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane & London
BUS fin AN AND
BUCCANEER.
The Life and Writings of Harry Morant.
Gives the true facts as to the Bushveldt Carbineers
and certain Australian scapegoats.
Wholesale from EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE.
Retail from all Booksellers, and Post-Free from
“ The Bulletin ” Office ts. Id.
A HANDY MANUAL OF POLITICS.
“A Policy for the Commonwealth,
By Jambs Edmond. > ' ‘
Should be read by every Australian voter.
Enfranchised Women should study it.
Price, Sixpence. Post free from The Bulletin
office, Sevenpenee.
The Bulletin publications
Forwarded to any address in return for posta
notes, stamps, or P. 0.0. for prices stated.
Send Id. stamp for The Bulletin Book Cibcclaj
No. V.
Pair Girls and Gray Horses, with Othe
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. New Issue. Blui
cloth, blue edges, with portrait; price, ss.
postage, sd. *** A charming presentatio
volume.
Tlie Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top; price
55.; postage, 3d. *** Australia’s best boo
of. sea and sailor verse.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gil
top ; price, 55.; postage, 3d. %* The bes
book of Maoriland verse yet published.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis ("Steele Rudd”). New
Issue. With about eighty illustrations by
Mahony, Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fishe
and Fullwood; 65.; postage, Bd. *** “ The
jolliest book yet printed in Australia.”
A Rose of Regret:
Verses by James Hebblethwaite ; being
No. II of The Bulletin Booklets
Enveloped, Is. 6d. ; postage, Id.
The Circling Hearths:
By Roderic Quinn. No. 11l of The
Bulletin Booklets. Enveloped, Is. 6d.
postage. Id.
Dreams in ITower:
By Louise Mack. No. IV of The Bulle-
tin Booklets. Enveloped, 2s. 6d. ;
postage, 2d.
vstro’s .'Last Sacrament and Other
Stories:
By Albert Dorrington (“ Alba Dorion ”).
' handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
th, decorated ; price 4s. 6d. ; postage, 7d.
: tin Story Book:
• Bulletin Writers. Cloth, SOO
■e, 4s. 6d.; postage, 6d.
Bulletin ' ' ■ oiter:
leTin Bards. With ilkis-
o.” N. Lindsay, A. J.
D. H. Souter, and H.
me cloth, decorated ;
Wot :
(Pm ■' Second-Rand.)
P° J ' ’ition, printed
in E. om. Paper
covers; 4t®. *hv, oi?s remain.
Price, 5?. ; posh ~. .
Austral. ;. c p ■in ’bourne
by Wm. In p . . v . , Bvo.
Only a few remo , vice, 'd. ;
postage, 3d.
Songs of the E :r. n«? Nighv, pruned
in Sydney. Boa; - v
remain. Price, 2s. •••d; ; .
TH« BULLETS, -CM.S
Sole Distributing A.
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sr.. . ,;;=•»■
Special Wholesale Agen
New South Wales .. Edwards, Dunlop
Queensland .. .. Edwards, Dunlop <_
Victoria George Robertson i ;
Tasmania George Robertson Pa ;>. ..
South Australia .. E. S. Wigg & Son.
Westralia .. .. E. S. Wigg & Son.
Auckland and district Wildman, Lyrll, & Arey.
Others to be appointed.
Sold by All Leading Booksellers.
The BuHetin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
214 George-st., Sydney, Australia.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
(REGISTEKBD).
ft
! m ■
£§s£&
«swi»
1««S8
IN TINS, Is. 6d
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable forTSmgers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR
€r. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE ; and FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., MELBOURNE, AGENTS.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are heipfui in indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE RED PAGE.
RONDEAU: LOVE’S ONWARD DAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Love’s onward day ; as sum of morn
Kissing in dew Spring’s budded thorn,
Flooding the verdure osf Earth’s breast—
Pearly the East, purpfle the West—
So wakes new life when love is born.
As noon of day—one cloud forlorn
Straying about the mountain crest—
Full trees, rich bio,bins and fields of corn,
Love’s onward day.
As noon to sober eve has worn,
And birds arfe silent in the nest,
And winds ?.re so unmov’d in rest
That eve’s lig(ht cloud-woof scarce is torn
Such restfulness, such peace, adorn
Love’s onward day.
M.L.
AHAD.
A New Theory of Poetry.
M~R-/ LIDDELL, an English scholar, an
I Wfi editor of Chaucer, and recently Professor
pf English at the University of Texas,
is dissatisfied (says London Daily
Chronfele) with our prosody and our criticism of
poetry. The former dates from the sixteenth
centpry, when, in Mr. Liddell’s words, “ Chaucer
was/ read as Elizabethan English. . . . English
models and English rules were therefore out of the
question as the basis of a.normal theory of poetry.”
He regards that prosody as being still “merely
the application, with some modification, of classic
orosody to English rhythms.”
') Our criticism is still more antiquated, he thinks,
<thd.still more absurd. It is full of phrases which
describe poetry as “ a thing of God,” “ the inner
thought of things, ”or “ something divine;” Words-
worth has called it “the finer spirit of knowledge.”
Even at this day,” says the Professor of English at
Texas, the poet is comparatively rare ; we need
not, therefore, wonder that the Greeks and
Romans, “who brought the supernatural into
almost every relation of human life,” should make
poetry divin® ; and we are the posthumous
victims of this ridiculous notion. Mr. Liddell
would change all this and enter upon poetry as a
field for study, “much like.that of Economics and
Ethics.”
He does this with a sympathetic and analytic
skill quite astonishing in an English critic,
and compares the methods of study with
that of biology rather than of ' meta-
physics ; for, in his own words, “the develop-
ment of poetry is intimately associated with
the subtlest activities of the most complex
arrangement of life-material known to man,” a
phrase not superior by much to those which he
disdainfully quotes above. He shows occasionally
an English critic’s fondness for metaphor and
imaginative generalisation, and a German critic’s
fondness for an extravagantly technical vocabu-
lary ; but in the development of his scheme these
weaknesses stand alone, if we ignore a few slight
faults of detail. The most important of the
earlier chapters deals with the fundamental ele-
ments of verse form. He examines Hebrew and
Old English poetry with a view to establishing
the fact: —
That the aesthetic arrangement of the thought-moments
is as vital an element of it (English poetry) as are the
aesthetic arrangements of stressed and unstressed sylla-
bles which mark these moments off for us.
He speaks of “ thought-moments ” instead of
“ phrases,” because “ it is important here to disso-
ciate them from words and to think of them as
groups of notions.” By way of illustration, he
quotes a from Beowulf, which exhibits
“ cartaingvvell-defined moments of more or less
length, ” sfven in a rough translation. In a chapter
on the punctuating elements of verse form, he
points but that English quantity is bf “ too shift-
ing Tend uncertain a character for poetry to
build on”; an experiment with the metronome
proves that “ proportionate time equivalents
between long and short vowels in English is a
mere fiction of the imagination. ” The importance
of “ the thought-moment structure ” is nowhere
more ingeniously shown than in an analysis of
three lines of Walt Whitman :
Blow | Blow | Blow,
Blow up | sea winds | aiong Paumonock’s shore,
I wait 1 and I wait | till you blow my mate to me.
Here thought-moments are marked by a printer’s
device. Again, he quotes :
Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting, ...
And fade into the light of common day,
and, we believe, he proves that those nineteen
lines “stripped of their rhythmic cadence as well
as of their rhyme, and reduced to a form like that
of Whitman’s verse, would still be a thing of
beauty ” ; certainly, at least, if unassisted by a
division into lines, they would equally impress
the sensitive student of poetry. Ur. Liddell goes
further:
The English mind will not recognise a series of rhythmic
impulses as a verse Jorm unless they are applied to an
already .esthetic thought-moment structure, though it
will vaguely receive rhythmic successions ol thought-
moments, punctuated only by emotion-pulses as an essen
tially sesthetic, though unusual, form of poetic expression.
Discussing the punctuating system of English
verse, he examines the lines—
So shalt thou feed on Death that feeds on men,
And Death once dead, there’s no more dying then.
The only naturally and absolutely accented
syllable is “ dy.” If we judge by quantity, the
first/ line is a “ trochaic-spondaic-—iambic—
pyrrhie.” line of ten syllables. If we judge by
natural emphasis, , the line is made up of a trochee,
two spondees, an iambus, and a spondee. Only a
very young child could make it thoroughly satisfy
our prosody and read it thus—
So shalt thou feed on Death that feeds on men,
And Death once dead, there’s no more dying then.
Mr. Liddell concludes that “the characteristic
which punctuates English thought-moments into
sesthetic form is neither quantity nor accent, nor
yet accentually determined quantity.” The prin-
ciple which takes the place of these, in everyone’s
practice, and in Mr. Liddell’s theory, is that of
stress. Quite naturally, without education, we
distribute stress “with unerring accuracy of
position, and deftly shaded precision of inten-
sity. ” He considers its importance in these words
from Othello :
My lord is not my lord.
If we can only make use of accent ana lack of
accent, the thing is meaningless. Stress applied
di , ffer f rlt (e.g., 1 the stronger,
and 2 the weaker) makes it intelligible •
1 1 2
My lord is not my lord.
The writer is then at pains to divide primary
stress under ten different heads, which we mention
V n ° rder t 0 illu strate the
lineness o f his method • he makes seven divisions
ot secondary stress ; two of low stress. “Identity
stress is Ins name for the stress in “ error
tinnallv S t r^ S *,? d “ em otion-stress ” are con-
amj y akmg advantage of this original stress;
* l^ s ' 10 * ; already sense-stress could have
SKf significant to the Sense
S^a«siiTsis,*i
taMvp in lOn i Sl,ress nmst necessarily be thus aumien
f ° r Ib ib , a princfp™ of
more stress than iht ? ew apd Particular notion receives
>Kv", va , a ' lll!lar and eneral 1 and emotion-
the incidence o? thp U i an - SeS - There is thus no conflict in
me incidence of the various sorts of stress but thev all
harmomousiy blend together in an ever rhythm
predicaticnf. Col ° l and mteresb to the simplest’ forms of
then, is his answer to the
tY P ° U . . what d °es English poetry
Sf • H ®f e bis work is almost done. He
, up ° n bl . le conclusion which we have
stated ;he does it amply and with subtlety. But
in these last chapters the reader becomes nervous
Ho rITd ta e tlC lk ° f y® coin pletion of the system.
l.pVrfty/r 0 t 1 v, 6 , 11 *,,’ and 18 not less nervous when
he finds Mr. Liddell scoffing at “pleasing ‘views’
and criticisms in ‘literary’ formulation,” and
pointing out the necessity of considering litera-
tim 8 ma h n n ,? f ; s^ ence > and not as a subject
for pleasant talk. His last words are :
„ A " d th< ? f ) ue flower of this scientific effort will be a full
Poßtrv ra ?h ete - U il ld< i rSt;andln ff ar “i appreciation of English
hM knowm nCh an m ° St beautiful P the world
I I1) ® reader wbo bas been impressed by Mr.
Liddells talent will turn back, and seeking an
this Inore su b s tantial than the above, he will find
~ As un *t groups in our prosodic system, we have
waves of impulse ” instead of fact. We can use the
descHhe K U T r u S Insfcead of ««s Greek prefixes, and
describe Enghsh verse as being in “five-wave rhythm”
.. . three for tri-, “two” for di-, “six” for hex-“
*c.—simple English terms quite as descriptive and
graphic as the Greek prefixes, and quite as dignified.
We confess that we think that the line
So shalt thou feed on Death that feeds on men,
does'not consist of five waves, and that to say so
is as unnecessary as to accent it thus
So shalt thou feed on Death that feeds on men.
Mr Liddell tells us himself that he has proved
that his system is practicable. We have no
Kv \°n Sa ! ing , s that his book is more
Hi.* 0 ™ tereBfc and serve the student of
Lnglish poetry than any we have seen before
it it were necessary to have a standard of
poetry, we should say that there is an excel-
lent one between these covers. It is not a
new system of prosody, though it makes the old
one ridiculous. It affords no basis for a classifica-
tion of metres ; it leaves blank verse, as before,
an infinitely varied line usually of ten syllables.
Its strongest quality is that it states the grounds
for the appreciation of verse which have been used
mthil 'T cr \ tlc ? of , evei T it states them
subtly and amply for the first time, and in such a
way as not to offend those who are far from
wishing to study poetry as they study economics.
Australian National Character.
AN article on The Beginnings of an Aus-
tralian National Character ” in the Nine-
teenth Century for September is mostly
misleading Instancies;—
iJlj becoming an Australian, the Englishman in Aus
Austoalian. me yPer ' SenSltlV6 60 Criticisni of eve O'thing
The proof given of this is that Max O’Rell’s
El HX f iTed . a better reception in
England than his work on Australia received here
Notable proof, truly ! As a matter of fact, the
-t- 1? ’ °" u the a , ver^? e ’ much less suscept-
ible to criticism than the Englishman, because of
the extra touch of cynicism in his character. It
is not that he is les3 vain-glorious; but he
doesn t care to a greater degree.
Another astounding statement :
in the Australian landscape is stranger to the
Northern visitor than its lack of half-tones, of the subtle
MMances, of a thousand hues that give their beautv to
Welsh hills or English lakes. Therels little reticence in
the Australian landscape. If Nature will have a tint
yellow, it lsyellow, and no doubt of it; whereas in Ene-
J yf ld K I U S 0f l e " thou ffh. after first suggesting yellow
she bethought herself that some faint shade of green were
purple mtlue enWaS alteri “ g ain
Yet nearly everybody is agreed that the essential
quality of the Australian landscape is its subtle
colour and its lightness.
The article proceeds to find the same lack of
character— tlCenCB reserve in the Australian
~Jio e A raCe 1 ° f ,nystc T y t . hat half revea -is and half con-
ceals the charm and mind of an English girl will be
found comparatively seldom in the' more downright
-beauties of the southern continent. '
A crowning absurdity is the statement that
Australians have no great gift of hunior, and that
Mr. tx. H. Retails our only humorist as yet.”
Mr. Reid our only humorist! What about Mr
Harry Rickards and Mr. Bland Holt ? Hoes the
Nineteenth Century writer know the meaning of
humor . Conclusion of his article shows that he
knows nothing of the demands of his subject,
hor, atter giving a few more or less correct but
always trifling observations, he says nothing at all
in discussion of the real forces which go to make
up national character.
M. J. K Huysmans (of “ En Route”) on Zola :
I was once his ardent disciple, Hut, although severed
from him, I must give him that tribute which a good man
deserves. He was generous and ever ready to render
services, especially to young authors. He "liked to be
surrounded by his friends, and never posed. But, above
all, he was absorbed by his work, although he wrote com-
paratively little each day. When he began the Rougon-
Macquart series he amazed us by a forecast of the whole
work, with the genealogical tree which afterwards ap-
peared in his “ Docteur Pascal.” He was haunted b\ r an
ambition to be a playwright, and few people now remem-
her “ Bouton de Rose,” which was produced at the
Palais Royal, and was a black failure. Of late years his
physical appearance quite ebanged. He used to be obese,
and fond of good living. He suddenly became as abste-
mi us as a Carthusian, and seemed to gradually melt
whils. the wrinkles upon his forehead became more
piominent.
Mr. Wilson Dobbs writes :
In “Answers to Correspondents” (B. 8/11/02) this
occurs, inter alia : —“ The Celtic Irishman and the High-
land Scot are vaguely supposed to represent a Spanish
br Belgic invasion,” and “ Erse, in any case, is Gaelic, not
Irish.” It is certainly conceded by ethnologists that an
Iberian or Basque population, spread over the whole Of
what is now called Great Britain and Ireland, in the
Neolithic age ; and that the ancient Irish and Scotch
were closely connected together. It is curious, there-
fore, to note in the lastr edjtion (1902) of Brewer’s
( Reader’s Handbook,” this comment tinder “Erse” :
‘ Whether the Irish came from Scotland, or the Scotch
from Ireland, is one of those knotty points on which the
two nations will never agree.” But surely, if any ques-
tion of the kind is settled, it is that the Scoti (ancient
Irish) crossed from Scotia (Ireland) into Arg.vle (Scotland)
m the 4th century a.d. Becoming the dominant race, they
called the land they had taken Scotia Minor, afterwards
Scotland, and the island they had left, from being
termed Scotia Major, got eventually called Ireland.
And thus Joannes Scotus, who died in 875 a.d., was
also known as “ Erigena ” —that is “ Irishman ” as well as
Scot.” .As to the word “ Erse,” however, you seem to
be under a misapprehension. For it is admittedly an
early Scotch version of the word “ Irish,” many variant
forms being found, some simply variations in spelling,
such as “ Yrische.” “ Erse ”is then considered to either
reproduce the Old English (Anglo-Saxon) “Irish,” or Old
Norse (Old Icelandic), “Irskr,” or possibly descending
*?£<2 a Parallel form, retaining the-vowel of the Old Irish
,o?r n ’.”J reland - Its Scotch use can be traced back to
1 ” 7 > 5 ’ A.p., in Barbour’s “Bruce.” The Gaelic dialect
ot the Highlands being’ of Irish origin, “ Erse ” was the
word applied thereto by the Scotch Lowlanders, also to
the people speaking that dialect, and to their customs.
Hence, in the 18th century', “ Erse” was used in literary
England as the ordinary designation of the Eaeliq of
Scotland. But besides this, it was even then occasionally
extended to the Irish Gaelic, and, at the present time, the
practice is to limit the word “ Erse ” to the ancient
Irish language, and the word “Gaelic” to the
ancien t language of the Scotch Highlanders. T 6 that end
" d '^i' onar ‘ es and philological works, the word
Gadhehc” is employed, to mean that branch of the
Celtic class of the northern division of the Aryan
language, which comprises the Erse (Irish), the Gaelic
(Highland-Scotch), and Manx (Isle of Man). Even the
word Irish ” itself also signifies the Scottish Highlands,
or the Gaelic inhabitants of them, and Halliwell calls
Highlanders and Islesmen “ Irishry.” As late as 1542
A.D. those in the Lowlands who spoke Gaelic were
known as “Erse” or “Irish,” and in its written form
Scotch Gaelic was not clearly distinguished from Irish
till about 1760 A.D. So, too, it is that while the word
Gaelic first became familiar to English readers as denot-
ing the language of the Scottish Highlanders, yet in more
recent times it has been applied to the language of the
Irish Celts also.
“Cash”: Isn’t the “agin’the churches” idea
in The Bulletin in danger of becoming a craze,
or a pose ? I > know the original idea, a tilt
against humbug, not against religion. But it has
got beyond that, and any casual reader would think
the churches in Australia were all humbug ; which
(as a long-deceased scientist was fond of remarking)
“is Absurd.” The other day a very minor poet
was given over half-a-column to explain that he
would rather stay out on the cliffs with a girl than
go to church. This is quite uninteresting
to anyone but himself and the girl ; and
even the value it might have as an expression
of opinion was spoiled by evident underlying
malice. He assumed that if he went to church he
would hear a “fat priest,” who would “mumble,”
which is much as though I should call his girl
(without knowing her) a fat wench with a squint.
I don’t want to bore him with my reasons for
going to church. Why should he be given half-a-
colurnn to bore me with his for not going, especi-
ally when they are on they face of them not
reasons at all, but gratuitous assumptions ? And,
finally, why shouldn’t The Bulletin let all
theology slide, anti as well as pro?
[Which calls for some explanation: The
Bulletin doesn’t look to the “politics” of its
poets. In that department it is the merit of the
expression which alone counts ; and if another
Shelley should send a poetic sample of
Atheism, and another Newman another “Dream
of Gerontius, ” they’d both be gladly welcomed.
If poems in glorification of going to church are
rare, it is because the people who go to churc 1 '
don’t often send us in good verses on that subr
The B. (don’t smile) awaits with an eager we’
a really poetic hymn.]
According to Sydney D.T.’sLondon cc
dent, the Colonial Premiers,' who wert
LL.D.’s of Edinburgh University, were t
on the head with a trencher, in which isembe
a piece of John Knox’s breeches. By traditi
the breeches were those of George Buchana
Scotch Latinist and Historian. Edinburgh Um
versity students’ song, “ Chancellor Inglis,” thus
deals with the subject—
How pleasant the tap of the velvet cap,
Which old tradition plainly teaches,
Was made from the rear of a well-worn pair
Of George Buchanan’s Sunday breeches.
Jft
. But there are some failures more beautiful and
more useful to mankind than a thousand triumphs.
It is impossible to weigh the value or to judge
the legitimacy of a hopeless but heroic sacrifice. . .
In things social and religious it is the fervor of
belief, the loathing of falsehood, the abandonment
of every self-interested and even of every pruden-
tial motive, which tells in the end. ' Mag-
nanimity owes no account of its acts to Prudence.
No; nor to Common Sense. Harrison
in his “ Life of Buskin.”
H.G. : Where is the logic in spelling words of
Greek derivatives, such as phonograph, with the
ph ? The F sound in Greek was indicated by a
single letter, and, simply because the language
came to England through the Latin, the English
have followed the Latin system of translating the
Greek F into the Latin Ph, while it should pro-
perly be translated into the English F. I contend
that the correct spelling, according to derivation,
is the phonetic : fonograf, telegraf, fonetic, etc.
[There is precious little “ logic” in any English
spelling. But Greek “phi’’.sound is more sono-
rous and full than English f ; that the Latins
(most exact in matters of language) preserved the
Greek Ph, and used it in addition to their own
“ F,” is sufficient proof of the fact. “F” is just'
as much Latin as “Ph.”]


WOOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
SYDN E.Y.
ITDOUCALL’S SHEEP DIP
THE ORIGINAL NON-POISONOUS DIP.
M‘POTTOAT»T■ BROS., S Spring Street, Sydney.
AGENTS:
Z. L. & M.A. Co., Ltd., Australia and New Zealand : Strachan, Cheedle & Co., Adelaide; J. B. Curran, Hobart.
SKINS
""
SEND ALL SKINS TO
Kangaroo,
Wallaby,
Rabbit,
Opossum
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY.
The Leading Salesmen. Full Values and Quick Returns.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices sll PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
SOLE Commission 3 Per Cent.
3NTO Per Pound Delivery Charge.
Will Not Affect the Nerves.
nMfii
Th.e BCigliest Class
SMOKING MIXTURE
THREE STRENGTHS S
MILD, MEDIUM. FULL,
, IN £lb. AND iw. AIR-TIGHT TINS.
S. HQFFNUNG & CO., Merchants, Pitt=st., Sydney.
Sole Manufacturers : ARDATH TOBACCO CO., 44 Worship Street, London, England.
NEITHER CRACK
'NHfia HON
4
6°
5800
s a
S&Q7
58oa
CBB
SHILLING BRIAR PIPES
QUALITY NOT BETTER
IN A GUINEA PIPE. . .
GUARANTEE.-Should any of our Celebrated CAN’T-B-BEAT Briar Pipes Crack or Burn a
New One will be Exchanged for it immediately on Application.
Sold by all Tobacconists. By Post, la. 2d.
Quality not better in a G-uixiea Pipe.
C. 8.8.
C. 8.8. Pipe, Sterling Silver Mount, 2/6
each.
C. 8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, with Ster-
. ling Silver Mount, polished Vulcanite
Mouthpiece, in Morocco Leather
Case, 4/- each.
C. 8.8. Meerchaum Pipe, guaranteed
genuine, Sterling Silver Screw, Best
Quality Mouthpiece, Morocco Gold-
lined Case, 21/- each.
c. 8.8,
C. 8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, Sterling
Silver Mounted Rim and Band, in
Morocco Gold-lined Leather Case,
8/C each.
C. 8.8. Presentation Companion, con-
taining two Silver Mounted, hand-
finished Pipes, Superior Quality
Mouthpieces, Red Morocco Gold-
lined Case, 15/6 each.
C.E.B.
c.b.b:
N
■Lll 11
V
L*'
pp
B RICHMOND,VA.
TOBACCO
Dark and
Bright
IS tHE BEST.
Price, ss. lb., Post Free, all States,
HAVING secured the Sole Agency for the
above brand of AMERICAN TOBACCO, we
have very much pleasure in recommending
same to our Clients and the Smoking Public. We
feel sure that one trial will be sufficient to con-
vince Smokers that “ SOIdD SHOT ” is the finest
Tobacco on the market. Splendid aroma, and
does not bite the tongue.
Save “ Solid Shot ” Tobacco Tags.
For Each 100 you will receive from the
Agents, Tree, one only C. 8.8. Briar
Pipe and Pocket Knife.
WHOLESALE PRICE LISTS ON APPLICATION.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney, n.s.w.
A Woman’s Pridel
IN this age of rush and competition no Man can afford to be less of a man than Nature intended him. If you
are WEAK, AFRAID OF VENTURE, you will surely get lost in the shuffle. A Manly Man is the
WINNER NOW DAYS. We have had hundreds of weak, despondent fellows come to us, men broken in
spirit, also in pocket; men who had tried every known or supposed remedy, who had seen one after the other fail, and
whose spirits went down accordingly. We have had hundreds of such men say to us : “No ! I won’t try another thing ; I’m
done for.” It is these kind of men who find us their best friend ;we know what they lack, why they did not get well.
They didn’t need drugs, they needed Electricity. We induced them to use our Belt, worn while they slept. In the mornings
they’d awaken with a new feeling in their nerves and tissues, new animation seemed to have entered their system ; that
drowsy, tired feeling began to be a dim remembrance only, and after three 'months oUthis potent remedy they were cured.
“Yes, sir,” said one man, “I had decided to give up my struggle for existence,” but now, “O ! no, I>am stronger and
healthier than any time within my memory.” Many and many times are similar statements made to us. Electricity is the
potent factor in life, aiid when each nerve, each organ of the body is full of it there can be no weakness:
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S New Electric Belt
Gives Strength Direct from Nature. It develops all the Vital Organs and renews the Vigor. It will permanently cure the
Worst Case of Weakness in three months after every other Remedy has failed. STOP DRUGGING, and try it. You will
thank us for thus urging you. It will lay the foundation for your future happiness.
ft
n
%
%
m
Pahiatua, New Zealand,
October, 1902.
Tub Dr. McLaughlin 00. i
Dear Sirs, —I was so delighted with my Belt
that I quite forgot all about writing to you.
I am pleased to be able to tell you that the
pain over my heart has entirely disappeared
already, and I don’t tire so easily as I used
to, and am well pleased in every way.
I remain, yours sincerely,
OTTO WEBB.
Frogs Hollow, Bega.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
Dear Sirs,—ln answer to your letter asking
about my condition, I am very glad to be
able to report that most of the symptoms
that I complained of have disappeared. The
soreness in the stomach and pains between
the shoulders have gone, and I feel better in
every way. Thanking your for your trouble,
I remain, yours faithfully,
ARTHUR SCHUBAOK.
C A.IJTI O KT.^*
When you use our Electric Belt you are under the care of the only Registered
Qualified Specialist in Australia who devotes his entire time to ELECTRICAL
TREATMENT. Our Chief-of-Staff has spent 30 years as a specialist in Europe and
Australia. Remember, other firms offering Electric Belts and Invigorators use them
as a side-line only.
FREE BOOK.
You sick folks haven’t made the
right effort yet to get well unless
you have sent for our Handsomely
Illustrated FREE BOOK, describ-
ing our method of curing weakness by ELECTRICITY. It gives cuts showing the application in all kinds
of cases. You can learn more about yourself from it in an hour or two than you’ve known all your life.
We will make you a written diagnosis o
your case FREE OF ANY COST TO YOU,
and leave the matter to your judgment.
If you have not-one of our books, write for
it to-day (a postal card is sufficient). We’ll
send it sealed and post-paid. If you are close
enough to call, do so for consultation and
advice. Not a ha’penny to pay. Don’t
neglect your condition any longer. Duty
prepaid on all Belts to outside countries.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co-,
85 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Offices : 167 E Swanston Street.
Consulting- Hours: 9 a.m. to 8.30 p.m.
USE -
SPOOLER’S
FSAF
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
t (In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
A Distinct Advance in Infant Feeding.
THE
The Allenburys Foods provide nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers
of the Infant, and constitute an altogether distinct advance on the mischievous expedient of trying
to make the child’s stomach accomodate itself to a food essentially unsuited to its digestive powers.
Farinaceous foods of all kinds are totally unfit for infants under five or six months of age, such foods
being a potent cause of digestive troubles, rickets, and many disorders arising from mal-nutrition.
0
The “ Allenburys ” Foods are especially valuable in hot
climates. They are in the form of powder and keep perfectly.
ƑSD
Pamphlet on
INF ANT FEEDING” (48 pages) free , from
495 , Bourke Street , Melbourne.
ALLEN & HANBURYS, Ltd., London, Eng.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to three months.
MILK FOOD No. 2.
.From three months.
MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From six months and upwards.
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORST COUGHS.'


A Quiet
foiiß Crown
Whisky
N
No Heart. No Energy
Tortured for a Year.
Weakness and Weariness Replaced by
Health and Vigour.
The Case of Mr. I{. TREMAHi
(BY OUR reporter).
Australians are neither short-sighted nor
reckless, and they always think it well to
brush aside irresponsible rumour and gossip
and to enquire without prejudice into the
history of the affair in question. Hearing
that investigation was courted on a certain
matter, a reporter called on Mr. Richard
Tremain, of No. 131 Macquarie-street
South, Surry Hills, who answered a question
by saying
“ When I was living in the northern
district of New South Wales, about five
years ago, my health appeared to be drift-
ing away. I felt that I had neither the
heart nor the energy to do my work, and
the gloom and depression which hung over
me took every pleasant thought out of my
mind. Nearly all day I felt as if I wanted
to be lying down, the drowsiness which
affected me being quite overpouring. It is
awful to have work to do and not have the
necessary vitality to get it out of the way,
and that is exactly what was *the matter
with me. breams at night whenever I
slept took away all the refreshing influence
which rest generally produces, and when I
left my bed in the mornings it was with a
feeling of being utterly exhausted and worn
out, while my limbs ached to an extent
which was almost unbearable. It was
absurd to think of eating any breakfast, for
as soon as I sat down my stomach revolted
at the smell of the food, and I often got up
without touching it. The nasty taste in
my mouth had sometKTng to do with this,
I believe, because later in the day it was
not quite so bad, and then I sometimes ate
a little, but I even felt worse after taking
nourishment than if I had let it alone.”
“ That is remarkable,” asserted the man
with the note-book.
“Not at all, under the circumstances,”
was Mr. Tremain’s reply. “You see, the
trouble was that I could not digest what I
had eaten, and the suffering of pain was
only what was to be expected. I felt it
very much just a little below my neck,
where the shoulder-blades are situated, and
the stomach became distended with gases
which seemed to rise to my chest and
prevent my breath from escaping freely. I
could hardly move myself about for the
terrible aches in my loins, and if I stooped
for any purpose my head became quite
giddy. The wretched headaches which dis-
tressed me seemed to produce a feeling
about my eyes as if they had swollen, and
my nervous system was altogether run
down. It was the wretched condition of
iny nerves which made my life a misery, for
[ became afflicted with the maddening pains
af neuralgia, from wh.ich I suffered for
twelve solid months., .1 was nearly dis-
tracted with it, and as I now got less sleep
than ever I gradually wore away to a com-
parative shadow, and with scarcely an ounce
&f strength in my body. Prom eleven stone
t>dd I came down to nine stone, so that will
tell you how greatly reduced I was. It was
»nly natural that such an alarming state of
iffairs should prey upon my mind, but,
ihank goodness ! when everything looked as
alack as could be, a happy thought sud-
lenly came to my mind. * I will try some
elements Tonic,’ I said to myself.”
“ Why was Clements Tonic suggested to
pour mind ? ”
“ Because people coming to my store had
10 frequently spoken in praise of it, and I
>hought when so many folks agreed on the
fame subject there must be truth in what
they said,- And what a blessing it was that
remembered their conversations, for I can
honestly state 'that several bottles of
Clements Tonic thoroughly cured the
neuralgia which had tortured mejor a year,
and I knew that I was now towed to safety
bo far aa my digestive organs were con-
cerned, as the systems of indigestion soon
began to leave me. To feel a sense of ease
after my meals was a treat which I enjoyed
through Clements Tonic removing the dis-
comforts arising from flatulence, and I was
glad to get rid of the nasty bilious taste of
a morning, for I could now eat heartily of
anything that was put before me After
experiencing weeks and weeks of sleepless-
ness you can understand how grateful I was
to find that the taking of Clements Tonic
meant plenty of sound rest every night, the
mornings bringing feelings of and
animation, which had deserted me for many
months. I made up my mind not to part
company with Clements Tonic so long as
there was anything for it to do, and a final
obliteration of all my aches and discomforts
resulted. Indeed, it was a complete release
from painful captivity brought about solely
by Clements Tonic, which also toned and
strengthened my system so well that all
nervousness vanished. Before this I had
been treated by a doctor, and had also
bought various medicines from chemists,
but I did not get the slightest relief from
any of these physics, the only one to wh ch
I am indebted being Clements Tonic, which
was a perfect success, as it went to all parts
of my body and left health and vigour
where weakness and weariness had dwelt so
long. What I have already told you is
something which the most ungrateful mortal
in the world would be thankful for ; but
there is part of my experience which you
have not yet heard.”
“ I would like very much to hear it, if
you do not mind,” interrupted the reporter.
“ Well, this is it: From the time that I
was sixteen years of age I was subject to
rheumatism. It had me crippled so much
that I could not get out of bed, and for
three years I was almost helpless, although
I had some of the best doctors in the city
attending me. This will help you to form
an idea of the great pressure that had been
placed on my constitution previous to' my
taking Clements Tonic, and I think that
medicine is entitled to all the more credit
for making me as sound as lam to-day. It
was when I was taking Clements Tonic for
my other ailments that I discovered its in-
trinsic value as a remedy for rheumatic
pains, for, as I said before, it found its way
to all parts of my body and gave me relief,
and as this came after trying all sorts, of
medicines to no purpose, it is easy to under-
stand why I regard Clements Tonic as the
most effective physic. Mine was a com-
plication of complaints of a most obstinate
and distressing character, and as Clements
Tonic proved itself to be master of them all
I think I would be doing a wrong to the
public if I did not place my experience on
record, so that anybody in a similar position
can act as he thinks fit. In any case, these
facts may prove serviceable to many
sufferers, so you may publish them in any
way you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I Richard Tremain, of 131 Maequarie-street
outh, Surry Hills, Sydney, in the State of New
outh Wales, Commonwealth of Australia, do
olemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully
lad tl’» mnexed document, consisting- of five folios,
-id executively numbered from one to five, and
lat it contains and is a true and faithful account of
ly illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
an tains my full permission to publish. in anyway
ty statements-which I give voluntarily, without
iceivirig any payment; and 1 make this solemn
sclaration conscientiously believing the same to be
ue, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
ct, 1900. - ■'- • "
Subscribed and declared at Sydney, this fourteenth
ay of April, one thousand nine hundred- and two,
ofore me, . - " - ./ <"
P. J. BRENNAN, J.P^
F
©
© :
©
©
General Electric
»>• • •
Incandescent Lamps.
THE EDISON LAMP
Annual Sales, 18,000,000.
Auer Competitive Tests, 63,750
were purchased by the Melb.
City Council.
LONG LIFE. HIGH EFFICIENCY.
Large Stock always on hand.
AUSTRALIAN
CEIERMi ELECTRIC CO.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS,
Melbourne and Sydney.
Motors, Dynamos, Steam Dynamo Sets, etc.,
also in Stock.
<OP
@
©
©
@
©
©
©
©
@
©
©
©
@
©
DF
CLOTHED WITH AIR!
aertex cellular fabric
is the ideal form of body covering, possessing all the neces-
sary hygienic qualities, and being also most comfortable and
of attractive appearance, and for those reasons is reconi-
mended by the Medical Faculty wherever introduced.
Aertex Cellular Underwear
Is a Sure Preventative against Chills.
Cellular Day Shirts.
Silk neckbands and soft wrists.
White and Self Colors, 4s to 7s 6d
Fancy Designs, 7s 6d to 9s 6d.
Cellular Neglige Shirts.
Soft fronts of plain or pleated
Cellular Cloth; wrists, French
Print, Linen, or Cellular. Recom-
mended for Golf, Cycling, &c.
White body, 7s 6d ; colored, 8s 9d
<9
Cellular Dress Shirt.
Fitted best Belfast Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 0.8. or 0.F., one stud.
Cellular Cotton Body—
-6s 6d to 8s 6d
Cellular Lisle Body-
-98 6d and 10s 6d
Cellular Short-Front Shirt
for every-day wear.
Open behind, ‘2in. linen wrists—
-5s 6d, 6s 6d.
Open front or behind, square
cuffs— 6s 6d, 7s 6d
Cellular Tennis Shirt.
With Collar and Pocket. The most
comfortable for all out-door sports
of all kinds. A great variety of
patterns stocked.
Plain Colors, 4s. 6d. to 7s. 6d.
Fancy Designs, 7s. Cd. to 11s. 6d.
ADVT
AERTEX
Cellular Combinations. (
High or Low Necks.
s. d.
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace 5 6
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. ..76
White Cotton, trimmed
Lace .. . • ..96
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery 10 6
AERTEX
Cellular Nightdresses.
White Cotton, trimmed
Embroidery .. • ■ 9 0
White Lisle, trimmed Em-
broidery .. .» ..20 0
White Lisle, prettily
fine Torchon.. 19 6
ag®
rjg
im
---
Aertex Cellular Chemises
White Cotton, trimmed Embroidery,
Ss, White Lisle, heavily trimmed
Kenh-Torflhon, T4s 6d and 16s 6d. ... .
elltilar SHp-Bodkes»
JJ.i<rh or Low Necks. AH sizes
to 3 )li> ; lar<re sizes, extra. *---
White Lisle, trimmed Torchon,.6s fid and 8s 6d.
Send for Illustrated Price List—Post Free.
Sol
BRAHAM & 00.,
■ |p 73 & 75 King-St., Sydney
riiaes?*
.oxii
Aertex Cellular Corsets.
Fitted real Greenland Whalebone.
■ - S. d.
Cl Ecru 13in. deep. .. .. .15 6
C 2 J. j long waist, 14Mn deep 16 6
M White Cotton, llin., nar-
- row spoon busk .. ..21 0
G White Cotton, 14$in., with
Elastic. Supporter ..24 6
FvEoru, Hiding or Cycling:. 12 6
V Cycling, Boned - French
Horn,


K
'(!
That hard
cough of
yours
what are
you doing
for it? Look
out, or it
will bind
you with
all the
strength of a powerful chain.
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
cures coughs and colds, even hard
coughs and old colds.
Mrs. A. White, of Fitzroy, Victoria,
says: “ I had a very hard cough night
and day. I tried many remedies, but
without relief. I thought my lungs
were nearly gone. I then tried Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral. I began to improve
at once, and only one and one-half bot-
tles completely cured me.”
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them ! Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
pr«nor<»() by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
SDF
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES : Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 5 6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address : 110 WILLIAM-
ST.', cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
SDFSAF
Cable trams will stop at door. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hairwork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
A GIFT for the LADIES.
ADVT
We make this
SPECIAL OFFER
to Advertise our
Ostrich
Tips.
5/-
The Bunch,
• Worth 10/6.
TWO VERY SUPERIOR TIPS, with
OSPREYS, in Black, White or Cream.
Post Free. Send Postal Notes.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Bourke & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
ADVT
FLUID
OIL
CRUDE FLUID
POWDER
EMBRCOATION
80/! PS
DIBINFECTORB
INHALER 3
FUMICATORS
Nni
WSINFECTINfi
FLUID.
COLORLESS
FR,CHANT
NON-
POISONOUS
DOES KOT
STAIN
KILLS ALL
DISEASE
CL RMS
OXYGENATES
THE AIR.
Sulphur Candles - 1
Formic Fumigators /
KINGZETT’S
PATENTS.
“HOW TO DISINFECT ” Bisk Free
The CO., L* i.
Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.
ADVT
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. Price 4/6 and 111*
Thousands of testimonials.
OF AJLIi CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
WHOLKSALK AGENTS
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W NIGHOLL, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
25 HIGH STREET, BELFAST, IRELAND.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A nst r alia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE
Australian Mutual Provident Society
SPECIAL NOTICE
Next Distribution of the Profits at
31st December, 1902.
Policies issued before the close of this year will share in the Bonus to be then allotted.
The Cash Bonus divided among the participating policy holders for the single year 1901 was £538,725,
being the largest amount ever allotted by the Society in one year. (All bonuses vest immediately
on policies attaining a duration of two years.
Persons desirous of effecting assurances with the A.M.P. Society should note the above carefully, and
send in their applications early, either direct or through any of the Society’s Agents, so as to reap
the benefit of this year’s bonus.
Directors — Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
B.rq. ; Senator J. T. Walker ; J. Abbott, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.O. ; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq., M.P.
Genera' Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S. -'
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
ADVT
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10s.
H. Hilller,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
it2T Send for a
Catalogue.
ADVT
Bent Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles.
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3-Spring Sulkies, £8 10s.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair.
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
38
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales—
M. RUTTY & GO.)
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia—
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaida
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland —
Thoa. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Phllp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
John MoKenzie & Co.,
Launceston
New Zealand —
0. Benjamin & Co.
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christohurcn.
ms
mx.
'A
EscSh.
REPEATING RIFLES
repeat. They don’t jam, catch, or fail to extract.
In a word, they are the only reliable repeaters.
Winchester rifles are made in all desirable
calibers, weights and styles; and are plain, par-
tially or elaborately ornamented, suiting every
purpose, every pocket-book and every taste.
WINCHESTER AMMUNITION
made for all kinds of shooting in all kinds of guns.
Winchester guns and Winchester ammunition are f
FOR SALE BY ALL IRONMONGERS.
WB STOCK_ALL. WINCHESTER GOODS.
M‘LEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd.
ELIZABETH ST., HELBOURNE ; QEORQE ST., SYDNEY.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
plays r: ,oE “
French’s Acting Edition.
ADVT
Rare Books
French Novels
Books the Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Hooks Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL!
■*t
IP
All Chemists.
<#/
%
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. ' Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
a®* For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
v 1
%
Washington H. Soul & 0 0.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT
HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OP THE HAIR*
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Incurable.
The long, hot, dull day is nigh over,
And cut like the blade of a sword ;
A red bar of sunshine is hanging
High on the white wall of the ward.
The woman from Mitchell’s is dozing,
The nurses have gone t« their tea,
And Granny’s asleep in her corner—
The ward is for Alice and me.
We lean by the window together,
And watch the gaunt, grey shadows push
Long arms reaching east to the dead-house,
And south to the roll of the bush.
“ Years ago —three last September—•
They carried me here in the spring ;
They said I should go ere the summer”—
She touches the band of my ring ;
‘ ‘ I shall never wear one on my finger—
Not that it will matter for much ! ”
But she turns her bright head to the sundown,
And leans on the arm of her crutch.
So I talk of old days on the ranges,
And show her the snow-saddled peak
I climbed in a long-faded summer,
Till brightness comes back to her cheek ;
And she laughs with an easy forgetting—
A light nature deepened by pain !
And slowly the last of the sunshine
Dies out on the bush-broken plain.
Will they carry her east to the dead-house
In the grey of some rain-ridden dawn ?
And for some is it life to be buried ?
And for some is it death to be born ?
The sunset is red on her tresses,
That glitter like bubbles on wine,
As the wind blows them in from the window
Against the dull sable of mine.
And even out there in the dead-house—
As light draweth light to its fold —
I know a stray sunbeam would find them,
And nestle there —gold to the gold !
LOLA.
An Affair of Outposts.
The cocks were crowing for the light,
The dogs howled at the rising moon :
But well he knew the dreary night
Was scarce outside its laggard noon.
And he was told to hold a post
Against an army weird and vague
A i that proud-b -mered phantom host,
Which ’leaguered once the walls of Prague.
The drink was dead in all his blood :
Brain burned, and eyes rheum’d tearfully ;
Whilst tremors not to be withstood
Shook soul and body fearfully.
Gnarled scrub and twisted roots arouncl
Took life and movement in his eyes,
His ears were full of horrid sound —
The stars were corpse-lights in the skies.
A hell-dog like a ball of soot
Coursed through the scrub, and glared and went;
A shapeless horror at his foot,
Grew o’er him chill and passion-spent.
If sleep, e’en for a moment’s space,
Sought horror’s features to conceal,
A foul fiend smote him in the face
And bade him see, and know, and feel.
’Twas but an outpost lightly touched
(The legions otherwheres had drawn).
He damned his soul for getting bushed
In cold reality of dawn.
The shanty half-a-mile away
Silent and shapeless made no sign,
Out north and west the plain showed grey
To the black river timber-line.
God ! for a drink ! What use ? Dead broke—
Kicked out when utterly put through.
Spite snakes and shakes, we’ll raise a smoke,
Up bluey, boys, and battle through !
F.M.
The Western Wife.
She lives “in hopes,” though Fortune strange
Ignores her prayers and tears;
She’s waiting for her luck to change—
She’s waited now for years.
Where Famine and Despair .abide,
Where Drought’s drear curses rest,
She lives—and laughs—but just to hide
The anguish in her breast.
The dust-storm beating at her door,
The white and with’ring sun
She has to bear, and something more—
The bag of flour is done.
The teething child she soothes at night,
Makes gray eyes wet and dim;
Says she (and she, perhaps, is right):
“ Oh, what a world for him ! ”
She lives “in hopes,” and through her grief
Looks for a fairer day—
But that the heavens may give relief
Her faith alone can say.
V.
WILL JARRATT.


THE
‘PLUM’
ADVT
THE
PLUM
razor is superior t° any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground rin-s
fedee that*is reauired't^ensnrf^tn 8 ™^ 1 Bei . n S P r * ct ' cal tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind oi
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO^EARs! 11 US6 f ° r a nUmber ° f year8 ’ Ca " teStify t 0
hot RAZOR strop > specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLES LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price -f ?- ng ! e S azor ’ ! rl strong Leather Case, 10a 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21A
1 Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15a; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful oase, 30a.
Registered and sent Post Free to anv part of tub World
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George-st., Sydney
ENO’S
COOLING. ‘FRUIT
AND INVIGORATING. SALT.
HEALTH GIVING,
REFRESHING,
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
Hold
the
Largest
Stock
on
Earth of
Genuine Bottled
Cognac
Brandy.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
S 3
'
yen
r-o
o
Q
Hints about Panama Hats.
JT will interest our readers to know that Ohas. Gilbert,
the leading Gent.’s Outfitter, Queen-street, Brisbane,
has just returned from visiting the centres of manufacture
for these scarce lines, and can supply the genuine article,
in either Alpine or folding shape, at 18s. 6d., 225. 6d.,
255. to 455. (for cash with order) securely packed, and
carriage paid to any address in the Commonwealth. 30
per cent, better value than any in the Southern States.
CAPILLA
HAIR
TONIC
The Wonder of the Age
ALL CHEMISTS
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA
SOVEREIGN VALUE
Taks a sovereign in
your hand! Compare
its size with that of a
bale of hay! The sov-
ereign looks small, but
it’s got the quality ne-
cessary to make it equal
in value with some-
thing much larger.
When you part with
a sovereign you want
its equivalent. When
you exchange sov-
ereigns for Rubbroid
you get an equivalent,
you get full value for
your money, you get
what you want, you
get Quality!
You’ll find the word
“ Rubkroid” (symbol
of Quality) on every roll
of the genuine article.
*
<%■
lead Hi
Y.
*
Q
O
*
"vvißOl of
AGENTS
There: are genuine
sovereigns, and there
are imitation sover-
eigns. They both look
alike* —but one lacks
Quality! There are im-
itation roofings, made
to look like the real
stuff, like Genuine
Ruberoid Roofing ;
but they are lacking in
the most important
essential —Quality! If
you want Quality in
Portable Roofings, if
you want to be satisfied
with your roof in years
to come, —you want
Ruberoid Roofing.
You’ll find the word
“ Ruberoid ” (symbol
of Quality) on every roll
of the genuine article.
Melbourne Victoria
Brooks, Robinson & Co. Ltd.
Adelaide South Australia
A. W. Sandford & Co,
E. RICH & CO., Ltd
•9
Wellington, N.Z,: James W, Jack,
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
Fremantle Western Australia
j; M. Ferguson, Ltd. ~
Launceston ‘ Tasmania
Heoeev Button.


The Bulletin.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper,
Vol. 23.—N0. 1189.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1902.
Price 6d
THE LIVERPOOL (N.S.W.) “TUBERCLE FARM.”—A MIDNIGHT DEPUTATION.
LEADER OF THE DEPUTATION : “As the most recent death at the institution, I have been asked, JOHN SEE, to introduce to you this deputation of the 1901 and 1902 victims of the N.S. W. Govern-
ment’s Liverpool Tubercle Farm. There are 76 of us killed in 1901, 55 so far in 1902, and we expect a couple more every hour. So we claim this to be a large and influential deputation.
What we wish to point out is that a consumptives hospital that would cure, not kill, would be really a permanent and reproductive work, and might, with much more advantage certainly
than your tombstone to soldiers, be charged to loan votes. The men who get consumption, and are cut off in the prime of life, are often men cf brains, often skilled mechanics Fat politicians
don’t get consumption; but I assure you that some men very useful to the State do. Save them, cure them instead of killing them, and you will have a valuable asset in the shape of an
increased body of taxpayers. It won t cost much—less than a ducal celebration. You will excuse the absence of the usual compliments: Dead men know not how to flatter John See—
What do you mean to do?"


The Bulletin.
The National Australian Newspaper.
« Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS AFTER
Ist NOVEMBER, 1902
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ...- ... ••• e£l ®
Half-yearly ... ... ••• nvn
Quarterly ... ••• ••• v I U
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tiif. Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six' Shillings sterling you can have Tun Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques , Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maoleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J P.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The ivhole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are speci
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and, stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To I mateurs in Mach and lVhitc.
Anyone supplying to Tun Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photogmph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a nooii idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MB.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and,
Gotch, Ludjate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown ;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal ; Solomon
and Wilson, S 3 Rout St.., Capetown ; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg ; Isaacs and Co., Durban ; Argus
Printing Co., lihodesia; Gwelo Neivs Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon. —Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver . Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.
Hono Kong. —Brewer and Co., 33 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
China.— Brewer and Co., 31 Wanking Road, Shanghai.
T^^f^xzlZeZz/ii.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1902.
The Removal-of-the-Food-Duties
Campaign.
The savage animosity of the foreign import-
ing class which lives on the restriction of
Australian industry (certain members of this
class are just now being publicly sued by a
person who claims that he was instrumental
in destroying an Australian industry, and
that the full price agreed upon for doing
this injury to his country wasn’t forthcoming)
has broken out afresh over the ques
tion of the grain and fodder duties. The
financial arrangements between the Federal
and State Governments are of a com-
plicated character the Braddon clause
makes that inevitable, and the jealousies
of the States, and especially their re-
fusal to hand over the debts to the
Federal authority, made the Braddon
clause inevitable. Nine-tenths of the public
utterly fail to realise the nature of these
financial arrangements, therefore there is
extra-special scope for the importing crowd
—which wants, at any cost, to get rid of the
Government that seeks to encourage Aus-
tralian industries —and the Freetrade papers
—which are specially mad at having lost
their own 50 per cent. Protection—-to lie on
the subject. And to do both these parties
justice, a capacity for plausible, venomous
and blushless lying where their own interests
were concerned is a thing they have never
lacked.
* * • *
The case which they persistently lay
before the public is that the drought is bad,
the stock perishing for want of fodder, the
crops insufficient to meet the country’s
demands, the price of food high—and that,
amid all these woes, the Barton Govern-
ment refuses to abolish the food duties.
Also it is claimed that the abolition of the
food duties would be of immense benefit to
the people. To quote Importer M'Mildan :
We expected this year that we should have to import
about 9,000,000 bushels of wheat. This would probably
be quoted at about ss. per bushel. If there had been no
duty— at present the Customs impost was equal to about
Is. per bushel—the wheat would be cheaper by the
amount of the duty. This duty would create the price
for the whole of Australia. A price of 4s. per bushel
would give the fanner a good profit in this time of dis-
tress. The duty would probably £400,000 to the
revenue of Australia, but the extra taxation to the people
of Australia would be equal to about £2,400,000.
It is thus claimed that if there were no duty
the price of wheat would go down to 4s. per
bushel—in other words, that the farmer
would get Is. per bushel less, and his dis-
tresses would be proportionately increased.
Wheat was sold in N.S.W. during 1896, when
there was no duty, and when the harvest
was better than it is expected to be this
year, at an average of 4s. 3d. ; and in 1897,
when there was no duty, and the har-
vest was better still, it averaged 4s. s|d.
Therefore Mr. M‘Millan’s bare assurance
that, but for the duty, it would be only
4s. this year wants a great deal of cor-
roboration. And bread is cheaper in
Sydney to-day than it was when M‘Millan
was N.S.W. Treasurer, and there was no
drought, and the blessings of Freetrade were
in full blast in the land. Also, flour is as
cheap as it was under McMillan’s Treasurer-
ship and M‘Millan’s Freetrade policy ; and
it is cheaper than it was under Reid’s
beneficent Freetrade policy in 1897. There-
fore it is by no means so certain as it looks
that there is any very extra or unusual food
trouble (barring that which exists in the
diseased imagination of the importer) to
alleviate, and certainly M'Millan, as a man
with a ghastly capacity for putting up the
price of food, is the last person to look to
for alleviation. But this is a digression.
Let the unusual food trouble be taken for
granted.
9 * * •
Assuming that, the price of bread having
got up almost as high as it did under Free-
trade, it is time to take violent steps, who
should take them ? Assuming that the Aus-
tralian Government will collect £400,000
extra this year in food duties, which may, or
may not, be true, all this money will go back
to the States. The Australian Government
doesn’t take its authorised 25 per cent., even
of the present customs revenue, and any
extra revenue will be returned to the
States bodily. If the Australian Govern-
ment and the Australian Parliament
were to abolish the food duties the
States would lose that £400,000, and their
already hard-up condition would become
still worse. They would have to cut off a
lot of the relief they are now extending to
the distressed farmer—this, too, at a time
when, M'Millan asserts, the fall in the price
of what little grain he had would add to his
distresses ; the States would also have to cut
down more wages, and sack more em-
ployees ; and for these things the Australian
Parliament would be cursed with bell, book,
and candle. The M‘Millan gang already de-
nounces it for two things : (1) For not re-
turning enough revenue to the States to
keep them solvent ; (2) for being callously
blind to the sufferings of the people in not
abolishing the food duties. If the Australian
Government keeps on the food duties it will
still be denounced for its callousness in not
taking them off; and if it takes them off it
will be still more violently denounced for
not returning sufficient revenue to the States
to keep them solvent. The M'Millan party
gets there both ways.
* * * *
The Australian Government wisely decides
to leave things to the States. There is no
need for Federal interference, and the whole
yarn on which all the denunciation of the
Barton Government is based is the meanest
and most unmanly lie that this country has
possessed since the days of the Kiama Ghost.
As a matter of fact, any and every State can
help itself in the matter. Any and every
State can abolish its own rood duties if
IT RECKONS SUCH A COURSE NECESSARY OR
ADVISABLE. Supposing N.S.W. really wants
these duties abolished. Its share of the
income from the food duties may be £lOO,OOO
or any other sum. The State Parliament has
only to intimate that it will pay, by its own
cheque on its own Treasury, the duties on
all food imported into N.S.W., and, so far
as N.S.W. is concerned, the thing is done.
The State Treasurer hands to the Federal
Treasurer his cheque for the duties on all
grain imported. He gets the money back at
the division of the surplus, which takes place
at the end of each month. Consequently,
he pays nothing, and, in the matter of food
for the supply of N.S.W., Sydney becomes
an absolutely free port. Of course, the
State Treasurer does not get the revenue he
would have received if Sydney had not been
made a free port in this respect, but, if the
Australian Parliament instead of the N.S.W.
Parliament suspended the duties in N.S.W,,
the result would be the same. The State
Parliamentsof N.S.W., Victoria, Queensland,
Tasmania and Westralia are all sitting, and
any one of them, if it feels that its own State
requires the abolition of the food duties, and
if it is willing to sacrifice the revenue
obtained from them, can suspend them, so
far as its own State is concerned, in a night.
The Federal Parliament isn’t sitting, so it
can’t suspend them. No one knows these
facts better than the M‘Millan gang, and
its persistent suppression, not to say falsifi-
cation, of them suggests axe-grinding rather
than patriotism.
* * *
If all the State Parliaments passed a reso-
lution that they regarded the suspension of
the grain and fodder duties as so essential
that they were willing to sacrifice the re-
venue derived from them, the Australian
Parliament would probably grant a general
suspension at once. But either the State
Parliaments don’t want the suspension, or
they don’t regard the alleged benefit to be
derived as anything like commensurate with
the loss of revenue, or they want to get the
alleged benefit, while leaving the Aus-
tralian Parliament to bear the obloquy of the
loss of revenue —which means that they
want to get the alleged benefit while reserv-
ing the right to say that the consequent
deficit isn’t their fault, but is all owing to
the wickedness of the incompetent Barton
Ministry. In either case, the Barton
Ministry rightly refuses to act. It has no
warrant to act except the advice of certain
venomously hostile papers which want to see
it ruined, and the counsel of certain interested
politicians who will inherit its billet if it
takes their advice and thereby destroys itself.
There is no word in any of the speeches of
Reid, M'Millan, Bruce Smith and co. to
the effect that they won’t take a mean
advantage of the Barton Ministry by
assuming its billet if it loses office by
following their advice. Various politicians
have moved in various State Parliaments
that the grain and fodder duties should be
abolished, but not one of them has added to
his resolution that “ this Parliament, so far
as its own State is concerned, will take full
responsibility for, and make ail necessary
provision for, any loss of revenue which may
ensue.” So long as any State that is willing
to sacrifice the revenue derived from the
food duties can absolutely suspend these
duties, and the suspension by the State
Parliament would cost no more than would
suspension by the Federal authority, the
interested parties who want the Barton
Government’s billet have no case. The
demand of these parties that the Barton
Government shall commit suicide by imposing
on the six States a policy which they can
adopt themselves if they regard it as worth
while, but which not one of them has adopted
all the same, is about the finest specimen of
the political confidence trick that this coun-
try has evolved up to date.
Belief for the Distressed Farmers.
Premier See lately decided to hold a conference
of prominent members of N.S.W. Assembly, in-
cluding the leaders of the Opposition and the
Labor party, to consider what should be done for
the settlers in the drought-stricken regions of the
State. Such a conference should represent the
Legislature’s united wisdom or its united inca-
pacity, and if any part of N.S.W. Assembly has
any idea as to what should be done, that idea
should get a fair chance to come to light. It is a
foregone conclusion that a good part of any such
conference will suggest floating a big loan and
supplying the ruined settlers with employment on
public works, but that sort of thing is inevitable.
* * • •
The drought is part of N.S.W.’s trouble; the
gradual crumbling away of a monstrous system of
credit is another and almost equally disastrous
part. Even last year, bad as things were, they
might have been much worse ; how they will
exactly pan out this year it is impossible to say
until the Government Statistician holds his annual
stock-taking. During the year which ended
March, 1901, N.S.W. had the largest wheat crop
it ever produced ; during the year ended March,
1902, it had the second largest. The last five
wheat harvests were the five largest on record.
The four years when the mineral production of
N.S. W. was the largest on record were 1891, 1899,
1900 and 1901, and in the way of mineral pro-
duction 1900 was the best year of all. The years
when N.S.W.’s exported wool crop fetched the
biggest amount of money were, putting them in
order of value :
1891 .. £11,036,018 1893 .. £9,676,061
1889 .. 10,620,636 1883 .. 9,598,761
1892 .. 10,211,456 1888 .. 9,089,776
1899 .. 10,020,495 1901 .. 9,035,437
Last year, therefore, was only £2,000,000 below
the best one in the State’s record, and was better
than 1894, 1895, 1896, 1897 or 1898. It was also
the year when the shipping business reached its
maximum, when the revenue was at its highest,
and when borrowing was also at its highest and
the public works policy going strongest. During
the last three years N.S.W. both exported and
imported more than during any other three years in
its history. A great deal of this apparent pros-
perity must be bogus, if a few months of really
hard drought has brought N.S.W. to such _ a
condition that it is necessary to hold a special
conference to decide how to save it from falling
through. No doubt, things are vastly worse than
they were last year, but a State that stood on a
sound basis shouldn’t totter so quickly, or so
badly.
* * » *
So far as concerns the agricultural settler his
trouble seems based on the fact that the agricul-
tural boom of recent years has been built, to a great
extent, on the foundations of a huge mistake. The
western slope isn’t a region of reliable rainfall, and
it never has been. A dozen years ago the fact was
little noticed, for there was very little agriculture
thereabouts; this year there are many agricul-
turists, and the conditions that didn’t matter then
are sheol and ruin now. In 1893 the area
under crop in N.S.W. was 1,010,727 acres. In
1901 the area under alleged crop was 2,445,564
acres. And this was where the increase mostly
lay;
Under Under
crop crop In-
-1893. 1901. crease.
Well-watered coastal district 249,156 306,329 57,173
Moderately-watered tableland 332,664 590,026 257,362
Riverina .. .. .. 82,835 399,876 317,041
Dry Western slopes .. 337,792 1,114,581 776,789
When drought comes, sheep die or are killed, and
the loss ends there; the State is under no obliga-
tion to feed the sheep indefinitely, and that
animal has no Parliamentary representation, and
doesn’t write to the papers. The selector and his
family can’t be killed in drought time. So land-
settlement in drought regions means not only the
immediate loss of crops in bad seasons, but the
absolute necessity of finding some means of keep-
ing a large section of the population alive at any
cost.
• • * •
The area that was settled, in the agricultural
sense, previous to ’93 is not very much worse
this year than it was then. The area that was
settled since—the great burst of agricultural settle-
ment that N.S.W. was so proud of—is this year
mostly wasted effort, and a good part of it has been
wasted effort all the time. There are over 18,000,000
acres in the well-watered coastal district of
N.S.W., of which oidy 306,329 acres are under
crop. There are nearly 40,000,000 acres on the
comparatively well-watered tableland of which
590,026 acres are under crop. But in some parts
of this region, owing to rivers, heavy timber
mountains, and other obstacles, it was diwieult
and expensive to open up the country with roads
and railways. In other parts there were huge
landowners, whose properties would have to be
resumed to make settlement possible. It cost less
trouble to rush settlers out on to the easy, almost
level, almost treeless country, where railways were
cheap and roads almost made themselves, for
several years the great ambition of the Govern-
ment was to increase the cultivated and settled
area on paper by dumping anybody down any-
where —and anybody was dumped down any-
where. The Freetrade party had a stupendous
contempt for manufactures. They interfered with
the softgoods importing fetich. Its one idea, was
to put people on the land—any people, and tor
preference the land where they could be dropped
with least trouble and expense. The 1* reetrade
party was so gloriously successful that while the
area under cultivation increased nearly 250 per
cent, in eight years, the value of the products of
cultivation increased by less than 50 per cent.
Now that the first pinch has come the question is
how to get many of these extra people off the land
again. The land they were settled on yielded a
meagre return in decent years, and this year it
bids fair to yield none at all, and to leave some
8000 beggared families on the hands of the State.
Every acre of good land in the comparatively
well-watered coastal districts should be turned
to the best account before the land-settlement
craze again attacks the Western slopes. The
big estates should be resumed and cut
up, and it should be made absolutely
illegal for any person or company or syndicate to
own more than a certain area —this to prevent
any future aggregation of big estates. The coun-
try should be opened up fully with roads and
railways—built out of revenue, not out of loan.
N.S.W. has sufficient revenue for the purpose with
decent administration. Everything should be
done that can be done to facilitate the removal to
the betterwatered regionsof those amongthe ruined
settlers west of the mountains who want to remove.
There is great talk of irrigation in what is now the
worst of the drought country, and the idea is a
good one. When there are two or three or six
million people in the coastal districts, then N.S.W.
will have a solid body of taxpayers to put up the
money for irrigation works. At present the
great north coast district of N.S.W. has no rail-
way north of Maitland, barring a few miles of an
isolated section close to the Queensland border
vet this is the best-watered region in N.S.W. It
is also ill-supplied with roads. The N.S.W. Par-
liamentary conference might think hard over these
matters. Also it should think still harder over
the fact that no agricultural population will ever
amount to much that hasn’t a manufacturing
population to supply it with a market. A manu-
facturing population is nearly independent of
drought, it doesn’t want seed-wheat, free water
trains, free carriage for starving stock, and it asks
for little in the way of relief works. Also a manu-
facturing population of 25,000 requires just about
as much expenditure for roads, _ bridges and rail-
ways as an agricultural population of 1000
The Beer Party and the Bethel Party.
The Liquor Bill, introduced to N.S.W. Assembly
last week, is of importance as indicating the trend
of political thought on the drink question rather
than as a serious effort at legislation. It may be
predicted, with almost absolute certainty, that
the measure will not get to the statute book.
Introduced at the fag end of a session, the busi-
ness paper already cumbered with many vexed
questions, it can hardly be hoped, or feared, that
it will pass both Houses before Christmas. Talk
will be plentiful at all stages ; there is nothing so
efficacious in loosening the tongue as liquor legis-
lation, in which so many vested interests are at
stake. The brewers and the publicans are very
strongly represented, both directly and indirectly,
in Parliament; and almost equally strong are the
representatives of the anti-liquor interest—the men
whose livelihood depends more or less completely
on publicly cursing the demon drink and striving
to exorcise it from Society. It is a curious, and for
the general public an unfortunate, fact that the
question of alcoholic drink has become a religious
one in Anglo-Saxon countries. Possibly the
development is a by-product of Puritanism. It is
certainly not noticeable to any extent in Latin
countries, where wine is unhesitatingly accepted
as an orthodox gift of Providence, is drunk at all
ages and at all meals by all classes, and is respon-
sible for very little drunkenness. But in gloomier
lands, with gloomier ideas, were evolved darker
and more potent drinks, full of invitations to
excess and causing insane and melancholy
drunkenness ; they, in time, by a natural
revulsion of feeling caused the “ Temperance
movement.” Australia, with her bright, warm,
cheery climate, should have been heir to the light
drinks and the almost total absence of drunken-
ness of Southern Europe ; but Fate willed other-
wise, and she acquired the fire-water, the capacity
for gloomy excess, and the Prohibition religion of
Britain.
» • * •
So the position is that Australia, which should
be drinking light wines and light beers with un-
questioned cheerfulness, and dreaming neither of
drunkenness nor of total abstinence —the Scylla
and Charybdis of diet—is most unhappily burdened
with the drink problem of England. A big sec-
tion of her population wallows in beer, the strength
of which is as the strength of ten because its
make is impure, and soaks in spirits and fortified
wines of much evil potency; and this section
flaunting its blue devils in public shocks another
big section into the scare policy of total abstin-
ence and prohibition. The while, there is a great
middle class, which wishes neither to be extra-
spirituous nor extra-spiritual, whose taste is
neither for Gin delirium nor the New Jerusaleni
of the W.C.T.U., and which desires to be left in
undisturbed enjoyment of a mild stimulant and
narcotic which, in these days of high-pressure
civilisation, is almost necessary to a pleasant life.
But these people are never considered when the
Legislature comes to deal with the liquor question.
The extreme anti-alcoholic fanatics are con-
sulted ; the men who at heart desire to pro-
mote to as great a degree as possible the
consumption of poor-quality alcohol have their
representatives in the lobby. But the great
general public, desirous only of honestly getting
a modicum of good quality alcoholic liquor— its
voice is rarely heard.
* * * *
The most recent N.S.W. Liquor Bill does,
strangely enough, give some little consideration
to the great bidk of the community in one or two
clauses ; but, poor as is the chance of any of the
Bill getting on to the statute book, the hope of
those parts surviving is even poorer ; they will be
eagerly torn out by the fanatics on both sides;
to destroy them the Bung and Bethel parties will
combine. Yet in the light of common sense they
appear as the only really valuable parts of the
measure —the only provisions designed to meet
the convenience of the truly ‘ ‘ temperate ” people.


Briefly, those parts of the N.S.W. Liquor Bill
which offer to help the public convenience are the
more stringent provisions against the adulteration
of liquor ; the withdrawal of the prohibition
against music in public houses (this will be
eagerly fought by the prohibition fanatics, who
insist that, if you drink at all, you must drink in
melancholy gloom and under such circumstances
as promote sodden drunkenness); the liberalising
of the conditions under which makers of wine and
cider may sell their products ; the grading of
license fees, so that the backblocks and suburban
publican won’t be in a measure forced to
adulterate his liquor by being levied on for the
same license fee as the big metropolitan hotel-
keeper ; and the suggestion that occupiers of
oyster-saloons and fish-shops should be allowed to
obtain licenses to sell beer or porter in connection
with their restaurant business. This proposal,
the most sensible in the whole Bill, is already
threatened with fierce opposition by the Beer
party and the teetotallers. Yet, in the public in-
terest, it should be carried through, and indeed
extended so that all restaurant-keepers snould be
allowed to sell wine and lager-beer, to be con-
sumed on their premises with meals. It would be
a good thing for most people if no alcoholic liquor
were consumed, except with meals; and it would
probably be a good thing if some light alcoholic
liquor were taken by all adults at meals, in place
of that vilest of national beverages, over-drawn
tea.
• * • *
The points scored by Bung in the Bill are: a
proposal to charge a license fee to clubs and co-
operative societies selling liquor ; a clause to pre-
vent the sale of liquor by ship-masters in port;
and some concessions in regard to licenses. The
Prohibition party is offered a series of concessions
of which some are merely make-believe: no woman
under 21 to be employed as a barmaid (very rarely
would that clause be needed); persons under 18
not to be served with liquor; and more stringent
provisions against Sunday trading and trading
after hours.
* * • *
Summed up, the Bill is mainly a series of tem-
porising concessions to both sides of the bitter
liquor controversy, with just a little consideration
for the general public. A bold measure dealing
with the question would recognise that, in
moderation, good liquor is a good thing, and would
not hesitate to tolerate its general use ; would
takeintoeonsideration the fact that the present sys-
tem is radically bad, with its tied houses, its adul-
terated drinks, and its many sordid concomitants ;
and would probably find a way out of the maze of
difficulty by making the sale and, as far as possible,
the manufacture of alcoholic drinks a State
monopoly. But there is no hope of bold measures
from the See Government; indeed, the present
Bill —timid and temporising as it is—is palpably
only an “advertising” measure, not a serious
effort at legislation.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Importers’ Agent.
The remarkable case of 0. Aloysio's Fox, against
certain large and wealthy importing firms in Mel-
bourne, hangs fire. Not that that fact matters
much, for the amount at dispute, and the legal
merits of the dispute, and the possible decision,
have no public concern whatever, and the case
may hang fire longer than did the coffin of the late
Mahomet without the matter interesting any save
the parties involved. The matter which does
interest the public is that a man is suing certain
importers in an Australian court for money
allegedly due to him for bringing about injury to
an Australian industry, and helping to destroy
employment, and wreck Australian capital, and
for doing something to increase Australia’s
distresses. According to plaintiff’s statement, lie
was hired by the defendant importers to get the
excise duty on Australian-made spirits fixed at
13s. per gallon, instead of the lower rate previ-
ously suggested. It is claimed that, by means of
publishing pamphlets, by lobbying, and by
judiciously talking in the great aggregate ear
of the Legislature, he was instrumental in
doing this. A letter is put in as evidence in
which he demanded his pay—there was some dis-
pute about the pay—alleging that he had succeeded
in utterly crippling the Australian distilling
business, and pointing out that the laborer who
did such good work was worthy of his
hire. The rest of the case doesn’t in-
terest the public. Any mere money questions
between the man who would do sucn work,
and the men who would hire him to do such
work are their own affair. The real matter
at issue is that the importer is set forth un-
disguisedly as a public enemy and a wilful
wrecker of Australian industry. There is nothing
said, when he and his alleged employee come into
court, about any desire to reduce prices, to lift a
burden off the people, to deliver them from the
yoke of the manufacturer, or any of the other
usual high-faluting moral principles. Plaintiff, in
his letter, didn’t demand his full pay on the
ground that he had assisted to deliver the
people from the incubus of Protection. No
doubt the Federal members were approached
on different lines, but, in private, plaintiff appears
to have posed simply as a man who was hired by
certain foreign importers to do all possible damage
to a certain local business, for the importers’
sordid personal profit, and who had been remark-
ably successful in doing so, and, consequently, in
depriving the Australian workman of his job and
his wages, or of his chance of getting these two
desirable things. What the Federal members,
who were doubtless approached in quite a different
tone, and who listened to the voice of the charmer,
think now of their share in the business is another
question.
♦
Selling' the Railways.
Queensland Treasurer Cribb has discovered how
his country, which is now financially lost, may be
saved. All the trouble may be put right by
selling the railways. “In our railways,” says
Cribb, “we have a valuable asset which could, if
found desirable, be disposed of at its capital cost,
thus relieving us of an annual drain of about
£600,000.” And the saving of that £600,000 would
put the finances straight, arid then all would be
well. There is something touchingly credulous
about Cribb’s faith in private railway enterprise,
yet he is only a sample of a considerable class,
and that class is a branch of the great fool com-
munity, which sends its pound to the turf-tipster,
and gives a seedy, down-at-heelsman Is. for a copy
of a book entitled “How to Become a Millionaire,”
and practises faith-healing, and discovers that the
Pope is the eause of the high price of bread, and
pays 10s. to be told by a medium that the spirit
of its deceased aunt is feeling quite well and
happy, Yet quite a large section of the people of
Queensland evidently believe that there are capi-
talists who would pay cost price—over £20,000,000
—for a neglected railway system that doesn’t yield
2 per cent, on that sum, for nobody laughed to
any great extent over Cribb’s puerile statement.
If Queensland actually put its railways on the
market, and stipulated that the purchasing syndi-
cate was to maintain freights and fares at the
present level, it is probable that the best offer it
would get would be about £5,000,000. If any
syndicate gave £20,000,000, it would want prac-
tically unlimited power to increase the railway
charges ; and it is doubtful if £20,000,000 would
be offered even then. Syndicates that build
railways at the rate of a mile of line for every 175
people generally demand a land grant equal to the
whole cost of the line ; in other words, they want
the railways for nothing. However the deal was
effected, the syndicate would want to see a reliable
5 per cent, in view—probably it would want to
see 6 per cent. And the Queensland people would
have to find the money just as they do now—the
difference being that they have now to find only
per cent.; therefore, the change would mean
that Queensland would have to pay £250,000 or
£450,000 more than it does at present. The new
system might make things easier for Treasurer
Cribb, for he would no longer have to collect the
money, but Queensland would have to pay it, and
Queensland is more important than Cribb. That
painfully futile person says he doesn’t absolutely
commit himself to recommending the sale of the
railways, but mentions the idea “as a means
whereby it would be possible to avoid burdensome
taxation.” Whether Cribb is grinding any
definite axe, or only getting the grindstone ready
in case he has an axe by-and-bye, is uncertain,
but these points arc certain: A pound paid in
extra railway rates is burdensome taxation, just
as much as 10s. paid in extra taxes. No syndicate
will give £20,000,000 or half of £20,000,000 for
the Queensland system on the present table of
rates and charges ; the syndicate which wants to
invest millions at 2 per cent, when it can get 3 per
cent, in British consols isn’t born yet. And when
the syndicate, if it ever arrives, has cut off the free
Parliamentary railway passes, the free water trains,
and the reduced rates for fodder and starving
stock, and has put up charges 50 or 100 per cent.,
and when it demands a land grant of 75,000 acres
a mile whenever a new line is suggested to it, even
Treasurer Cribb may find that he hasn’t got rid
of so very much of his deficit after all. The
“ burdensome taxation,” which it is proposed to
avoid by selling the railways, is, of course, the
land-tax. If Treasurer Cribb could name any
country where private railway ownership has
averted a land-tax he would throw some light on
a very dark argument.
• ♦
The Vampires on the Raft.
Horrible allegations begin to trickle out as to the
happenings on the Elingamite raft between the
time when, with 16 souls aboard, she left the sink-
ing steamerfoodless, waterless and gearless, and her
discovery by the Penguin with eight survivors—
talk of human vampires sucking the blood of a
helpless woman (who afterwards died), whispers
of vigils, such as the companions of Cannibal
Gabbett kept on a memorable journey of the old
convict days. The Elingamite stories are too re-
volting to be more than hinted at ; but what has
been printed in one or two papers is enough
to conjure up before any of the public
contemplating a sea trip the vision of a vam-
pire on a raft. It is for the Federal Parlia-
ment to take prompt steps to banish that horror.
The shipowners as a body will, it is certain, do little
or nothing, for experience shows that too many of
them know nothing of precaution, save what the
law absolutely enforces, and even that many of
them will neglect, if they can neglect it safely. It
should not be necessary for the law to force ship-
owners to provide effective boat-accommodation
in case of disaster, and to equip and provision the
boats, any more than it is necessary to pass a law
that coach-proprietors should equip their vehicles
with brakes on mountain roads. But it is ; bitter
experience proves that. Why it should be so, why
so many shipowners should preserve in their
calling so much of the moral callousness of
the old days when the shipping interest was
mostly piratical, it is impossible to even theorise.
The Legislature need not seek out the cause : all
it has to do is to consider the patent, obvious fact,
and to deal with it. The shipowning class con-
tains so large a percentage of callous adventurers,
that it must be legislated for as a class which
knows nothing of the precautions necessary for
making its business reasonably safe, and which
cares nothing of the results to others of the
neglect of precaution. The Australian Navigation
Act should set forth ample precautions, leave
nothing at all to the good-sense of the shipowner,
and provide a large, commodious dock with the
full complement of spikes for those who depart
from the rules prescribed.
♦
The Case of Major Lenehan.
After many months, an intimation appears in
the daily press that the Australian military depart-
ment ‘ ‘ is considering whether Major Lenehan is
to be allowed to remain in the Commonwealth
Forces.” By this it may be inferred that Major-
General Hutton finds Minister Forrest much
more amenable to his influence than was Minister
Lyne. When acting as head of the Defence
Department, Mr. Lyne refused to concur in the
dismissal of Lenehan without a full inquiry into
the merits of the matter. Mr. Forrest seems
now to propose to do so, in spite of the
existence of a growing public feeling that
Major Lenehan’s case calls for redress, not
punishment. But Lenehan cannot be dismissed
without inquiry, except by an act of arbitrary
tyranny perpetrated by an Australian Government
in obedience to the representations of an Imperial
officer. It is equally true that he cannot, consis-
tently with military discipline, remain in the
Defence forces in defiance of the opinion of the
officer commanding. The position is one that can
only be relieved by an inquiry. If that establishes
the fact that Lenehan is a wronged man, he
deserves redress ; if it shows him a wrong-doing
man, the Imperial demand for his dismissal is
justified. The circumstances in regard to
his ease are now fairly familiar. He was
officer commanding the Bush veldt Carbineers, but
had no part in the atrocities committed by
some officers of that corps. He was, however,
arrested with the others, and, it is claimed, was
illegally imprisoned before and after trial, with
no other motive, seemingly, than to prevent him
from communicating with the Australian Govern-
ment in regard to the invidious punishment which
was about to be meted out to Australian scape-
goats at the demand of Germany, There is very
strong presumptive evidence that this was so ;
and that subsequently, in order to smother Aus-
tralian indignation, the acts of the Bush veldt Car-
bineers were blackened and represented as even
more infamous than they were. It would seem,
from the as yet imperfect evidence available—
(l) That the Australian officers of the Bushveldt Carbi-
neers committed murders, but committed them under
English orders, and were countenanced in their action by
scores of English officers, who committed similar murders
and no word said.
(2) That the execution of two Australians and the im-
prisonment of another were due, not (altogether) to
English disapproval cf Boer murder, but to the English
necessity of finding scapegoats to satisfy German
demands.
(3) That Major Lenehan, an innocent man, was illegally
imprisoned to prevent him from communicating with the
Australian Government until the executions had taken
place.
In the language of the law courts, a prima facie
case has been made out on these points, and it is
claimed that an inquiry will establish them fully
as facts. Naturally, the Imperial Government
does not wish for an inquiry. But, just as
naturally, the Australian Government should
be firm in instituting an inquiry. Major-General
Hutton, who, of course, represents. the
Imperial and not the Australian interest, has
worked strenuously to burke the question and to
crush Major Lenehan’s requests for an investiga-
tion ; he has definitely refused a court-martial,
and now is striving to defeat the agitation for the
trial of the case by a civil tribunal. That’s his
business. The Australian Cabinet’s business is to
see that an Australian citizen gets justice, no
matter who is offended thereby.
Treasurer Bird’s New Chicken.
Though Tas. Treasurer Bird’s new taxation pro-
posals lost some of their gaudiest feathers during
the prorogation, they still carry a good many
frills. Mr. Bird estimates that he will begin 1903
with a deficiency of £219,000. This amount, he
explains, would have been reduced oy £30,000 or
so but for the House of Dodery naving cast out
the taxation proposals of .ast session. The esti-
mated expenditure for 1903 is £804,000, and
revenue from all sources is not expected to exceed
£774,000. To make up the balance of £90,000
there is proposed (subject to certain exemptions)
a company tax of Is. m tne £, a tax of 6d. on
incomes derived from business and of Is. on
incomes derived from property. The tax is to be
paid on all incomes of £lOO and over, the exemp-
tions being fixed on a sliding scale, thus: On
income of £lOO an exemption of £BO is allowed,
with gradually diminishing exemptions until £4OO
is reached, when 6d. in the £ will be collected on
the full amount. An income of £lOO will thus
pay 10s.; the proposals of last session were to take
255. This alteration, in view of the approaching
elections, was very necessary to the life of Bird
and co. A similar system of graduated exemp-
tions is provided in the Land Tax Bill. No
owner of less than £5OOO worth of land is to be
asked for more than |d. in the £—the same old
inadequate ha’penny. Land valued at £lO,OOO
will pay -fd. in the £, and so on gradually, until
estates over £55,000 are reached with a tax of Id.
There is a stamp tax or Id. on receipts for £1
and 2d. on ditto for £5; a probate duty or
from three to five per cent., with a
£5OO exemption on property willed to a
widow, widower, ancestor or descendant,
double those rates on property left to any other
relative, and 10 per cent, on property left to a
stranger in blood. And Tattersall is not for-
gotten :
In respect of every lottery ticket, coupon, or certificate
of a share in any lottery sanctioned by law in Tasmania :
Where the face value of the ticket does not exceed 55.,
Id. ; where the face value of the ticket exceeds 55., for
every ss. or fraction of 55., Id.
From all these sources Treasurer Bird expects to
rake in £90,000 or thereabouts. The Opposition
is being implored by a tearful Bird not to interfere
with the proposed exemptions, but an election is
not far off, so the Propsting party will probably
interfere all it knows. To oppose taxation is as
cheap a way of catching votes as any other.
«
The Reactionary Crowd is going strong in S.
Australia. Having got the land-grant horror
safely through, it turns now to the education
system and makes a dead set against free schools.
It knows that the present Parliament is almost
weak enough to pass anything if enough row is
engineered outside, and it engineers a row
accordingly. It cunningly starts by giving the'
idea that Parliament has already disapproved
of the system, although all that Parliament
has really done so far is to cut down the
£150,000 vote by £l4OO. As a matter of fact,
members did not have the free education system
in their minds at all when they made that small
cut. The cost per average child, after steadily
falling for years, had taken a turn and gone
steadily up from £3 4s. lid. in 1890 to £3 Bs. sd.
in 1901, and it was that at which retrenching
members struck. Anybody who knows much
about S.A. Education Department knows that
its control by a “board of inspectors,” lately
abolished, was ineffective and costly. Better
things had been promised under the new
system, introduced a few months back, and the
House took the Minister at his word and
indicated that it expected the improvement
to actually take place. To pretend that Par-
liament has declared against the whole system,
and to make that the excuse for preparing the
way for a change is smart, but it isn’t con-
spicuously honest. And, anyhow, the cost m
S.A. is not, comparatively, high. In N.S.W.,
where fees are still collected, the lowest cost to
the State per child in average attendance for many
years has been £3 11s. lid.; last year it was over
£4, notwithstanding that the N.S.W. youngster
is scattered over a smaller area than the S.A.
youngster. The thing couldn’t, indeed, be done
for the money in S.A. if it were not for the whole-
sale employment of “provisional teachers,” at a
wage which would pinch even a dairy-farm laborer.
♦
The South Australian land revenue has dropped
from £635,487 in 1882 to £148,420 in 1902. In the
days of the rush of agricultural settlement the
State resumed, for agricultural purposes, 13,200
acres of pastoral land in the dry country, for which
land the squatter had been paying 225. 4d. per
square mile per annum. It paid the dispossessed
squatters £243,276 (of loan money) for their im-
provements, interest on which represents 275. 2d.
per annum for each square mile. The agri-
cultural population that is on the land now pays
about 275. per square mile per annum on an
average, and gets the improvements thrown in, so
the State doesn’t get enough to pay interest on the
money spent on improvements, and gets rather less
than nothing for the land itself. Also, it supplies
the farmers with seed wheat occasionally. In L 894,
the pastoral country—the portion which, luckily,
was not resumed so that the unhappy farmer might
be put on it—brought in, on the average, a rent of.
10s. 3d. per square mile per annum. It now
realises ss. sd. The State, under a specially foolish
law, paid outgoing squatters about £1,000,000 (out
of loans) for their improvements. New squatters
who took up the land are supposed to repay this,
but about £500,000 is supposed to be lost, and the
other £500,000 is hard to collect. The cultivated
area is a trifle less than it was 18 years ago. Dust,
Germans and green parrots are the chief products
of the S. A. country districts. It is a great thing
to go on the land, but over most of Australia most
of the time it is better •to stay in the city and.
make blucher boots.
-
By dint of telling the sa?me falsehood everyday,,
with monotonous iteration, the importers’ party
and their newspapers _ have really created an
impression that there is some wide discrepancy
between the Barton Government’s tariff and the
policy which Premier Barton outlined at Mait-
land. On that celebrated occasion Barton pro-
mised that the object of the tariff would be “re-
venue without destruction” —meaning thereby
destruction of Australian industries. The tariff
produces revenue right enough, and the one
industry that has been destroyed—the distilling
industry—was killed by a conspiracy among the
Freetraders, who hired a man to beguile Federal
members into raising the excise for the purpose.
(That man is now suing for his alleged money, on
the ground that the importers hired him to
destroy an Australian industry, and didn’t pay up
the price agreed upon.) Under these circum-
stances, the Barton tariff and the Barton mani-
festo square well enough, though the tale about
the imaginary discrepancy will doubtless appear
in Sydney Daily Telegraph till Premier Barton
is in his grave, and will be mentioned in his
obituary.
“ Shellback ” writes
Melb. Argus, discussing the Elingamite wreck, says :
“ Men who are familiar with the whole routine on hoard
ship say that it is remarkable, yet still true, that officers
and men are, for the most part, rather indifferent as to
the equipment, upon which their own safety, in common
with that of the passengers, will, in case of accident,
depend.” Wrong; and a cowardly libel on a hard-
working and much abused class. A mate myself I know
what lam talking about. Kindly bear in mind, you lion-
seagoing public, the fact that the effective crew of the
average coaster is limited to eight sailors (for colliers only
six). Now the ordinary lifeboat as usually provided
requires from 6 to 8 men at each fall to even lift it out of
the chocks preparatory to swinging out for lowering.
Cooks and stewards, firemen, greasers, etc., are all told
off to make up a boat’s crew. But what they know of
sailoring is practically nil. This, mind you, is no dis-
paragement of them as men. No wonder, therefore, that
it takes an undue time to launch the boats in case of
disaster! The average chief-officer, as I know him,
would be only too glad to devote one day a week to the
overhauling and working of the boats. But from the
scantiness of labor provided he is either compelled to
forego it or else do it in odd half-hours snatched from
cargo work. In port, which is the best place to put this
job through, his eight men are usually disposed thusly :
Night-watchman, 1 (off all day); winches, 3 or 4 ; gang-
way, 1; plus, perhaps, two hands told off to look after
holds, sweeping up, etc. In colliers it is even worse,
especially in loading ports, where the men have to prac-
tically “stand-by” the mooring lines for hours at a
stretch. Again, should a more than usually energetic
mate manage to put his boats, etc., in thorough order,
he probably does so at the expense of the appearance of
some portion of the vessel, and on arrival in home port
gets hauled over the coals by his co.’s marine superin-
tendent for coming in with a dirty ship. It is no excuse
for him to plead that his hands were otherwise engaged
and on more important business ; occasionally he ge: s the
sack or is disrated for it—in any case a black mark is
scored against his name. Maiine inspectors whose busi-
ness it is to find out the weak spots often slur their
work. Less than six months ago I saw a lifeboat
on a coaster passed as seaworthy with a lead patch Ift.
square on her side. To the credit of the co. concerned, it
must be added that, on her arrival at the home port, this
crazy craft was replaced by another in better order ; still,
the ship had to make a 500-mile passage before she got it,
and who was to say that the boat would not be wanted
en route t This brings me back to an assertion made some
weeks ago, in your columns, that the system of appoint-
ing our inspectors in Victoria is radically wrong. In
N.S.W., the marine surveyors owe their appointment to
no shipowning influence, and consequently their word is
law, in addition to having an absolutely free hand. The
sooner a Federal Navigation Act puts, the surveyorship
in all States on a similar basis the sooner will the present
general feeling of mistrust be dispelled.
. ♦
A bit of well-founded gall from “L.E.” :
The bald announcement that the already-enrolled
women voters exceed the males by 20,000 in the Sydney
metropolitan area is loaded far below the Plimsoll line
with indications of a coming revolution. Various tony-
minded policemen have expressed to the kitchen wenches’
organ their deep regret it was “ the wrong class of
woman ” that was enrolling. The well-to-do, tastefully-
dressed matrons and missies of the Potts Point end of
Darlinghurst “ merely smiled and said they left all that
sort of thing to the men and didn’t know anything about
it,” and refused to give their names ; and the deplorable
fact moved the “ coppermen ” almost to tears. The news
seems too good to be true. Apparently it is the women who
have felt the rough edge of life who are taking an interest in
their country’s affairs, and, judging by their numbers, are
taking it to some purpose. The sweated factory-girl, the
underpaid shop-girl struggling to dress decently and live
somehow on 15s. per week ; the ground-down boarding-
house keeper, who has to board and feed the shop-girl
for 12s. 6d. per week because the poor creature can pay
no more ; and all that great army of women one meets in
city boarding houses who know not where next week’s
board money is to come from, and who keep up a brave
but tremulous under-lip because they are afraid to
let their hearts go while they tremble on the edge of the
precipice. Apparently these are the women who are
enrolling ; and a good thing, too. Next election should
see an overwhelming increase in the Labor vote. The
yell that the vote is being taken advantage of by the
drab and the demi-rep i? rather joyful, news than other-
wise : the drab and the demi-rep are quite right to try
and smash the order of things that has made them what
they are ; and the classes from which they are recruited
will do well to destroy it before it makes them likewise.
4
Another new departure of the most Tory charac-
ter in the new Victorian ‘ ‘ Reform ” Bill is that
restricting the issue of voters’ certificates.
Premier Irvine argues that a man ought to know
the votes on which he seeks election to Parlia-
ment, and that he cannot do so if voters are
allowed to take out certificates up to a day before
the election. As a good Tory, living on Tory
votes in a shockingly Tory House, Irvine was
bound to forget the little fact that the same thing
applies to the property-owner who has votes in
several districts. Irvine says the voters’ certifi-
cates are responsible for a shifting vote, which he
denounces as dangerous. If the democratic shift-
ing vote is dangerous, so also is the Tory shifting
vote. The Tory who has a vote in half-a-dozen
districts is only allowed to vote in one, but he
always votes in the one where there is a demo-
cratic candidate to be suppressed. No democratic
candidate can know what his prospects are, for if
in an adjoining electorate there is no democratic
candidate to be put down, any number of Tories
may shift into his electorate to oppose him. And
Irvine doesn’t object. The Tory yote can go on
shifting till further notice.
4
Among the many Imperialistic dreams and ideas
of to-day nobody seems to remember perhaps the
most remarkable one Australia ever produced—
that of Charles Gavan Duffy. Thirty years
ago Duffy’s Royal Commission in Victoria pro-
jected a scheme of Australian Federation which
aimed also at solving the main difficulty of
Imperial Federation, and for a time both Duffy
and Henry Parkes believed they had succeeded.
The key was Australian neutrality, wherever
Australia was not legislatively consulted. Duffy
argued that union with Britain without a neutrality
agreement would drag Australia into wars that
did not concern it, and would make all Britain’s
foes the foes of Australia. By the ratification
of a relationship of neutrality Australia would, on
the other hand, only participate in British war
operations when it formally and legislatively re-
solved to do so. It was intimated at the time that
foreign nations would respect such a neutrality,
Britain and Hanover maintained such a relation
at one time, and Britain and the lonian Isles at
another. But the public mind gradually fell away-
from the idea, and Parkes and others veered round
against it, the impression being that Neutrality
r Teally meant Separation.


The equitable life assurance society
of the United States.
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBER, 1901.
ASSETS
INCREASE IN ASSETS
SURPLUS ..
INCREASE IN SURPLUS
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE ..
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1900 by ...
£.68,966,608
£5,508,678
*14.797,717
£1,039,973
£245,682,651
£13,000,350
£8,088,718
LOCAL DIRECTORS :
Sir WM. M'MILLAN, K.0.M.G., Chairman; Hon. C. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.;
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S.,
F. C. COWLEY, Secretary. Manager for N.S.VV. and Queensland.
SAWMILL MACHINERY.
Single and Double Cutting BAND MILLS for
hardwood logs, CIRCULAR SAW MILLS, Com-
plete Outfits of any capacity. Band Resaws,
Engines and Boilers.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
At the Blue Mountains,
CARRINGTON
HOTEL PRPTY.
KATOOMBA.
A. L. PEACOCK.
C. T. H. WAKE.
M. EMIL CHIBOUST.
An Ideal Holiday Resort.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum “ White Heather.”
Royal “ If I were King.”
Criterion “A Trip to Chicago."
Tivoli Rickards’Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ Moths.”
Her Majesty’s “The Mikado.”
Bijou Little Lord Fauntleroy.
Theatre Royal “ A London Arab.”
OrBRA House Cinquevalli
N Tprinces’Bridge)- Bros.’ Circus.
♦
“If I Were King,” staged at Sydney
Royal last Saturday, is a fine, vigorous drama
with much feathers and millinery and clanking
mail in it, and with a certain pretence of being
historical, though if history awoke and saw itself
as Justin Huntly M’Carthy has presented it, it
would be a very much surprised branch of litera-
ture. The story lies, in more senses than one, in
the reign of Louis XI., and that aged monarch
creeps like a malicious black caterpillar through
it all. It is a stage tradition that “ Father Louis”
was always old, silent, dressed in black, and
hunched with long stooping at keyholes and
seeking for dropped coppers and dropped king-
doms, and other property. When the story opens,
the Burgundians are besieging Paris, the Con-
stable of France has turned traitor, the army is
disaffected, and the king is going about in a silent,
malignant, doubled-up fashion, as usual. He is
disguised in a wine-shop with his executioner, try-
ing to find out how popular he is, and deciding to
hang nearly everybody next morning; when Villon,
the poet, drinks at his expense, slaps him cordially
on the back, and calls him old rooster, or words to
that effect. Louis resolves to hang Villon next
morning. Villon tells how he has fallen madly in
love with a lady of rank, and Louis, who is shocked
at this immorality, resolves to hang him something
extra next morning. But Villon, in a rough-and-
tumble fight, badly wounds the traitorous Con-
stable, and Louis relents so far as to make him a
temporary nobleman, and appoint him Constable
of France and commander of his army for seven
days—he to be hanged at the end of that period.
Louis XI. nearly dies laughing as he thinks of
this joke, and even forgets that he is besieged in
his own capital.
• • • •
Later, as he crawls like an apologetic
black worm round his palace, another joke occurs
to Louis XI., and this time he laughs so much
that he has almost to be slapped on the back by
his inseparable companion, the executioner, to pre-
vent him choking. He tells the new Constable that
if the lady whom he loves will marry him in hi 3
own capacity as a beggar-poet, and go back with
him to his garret, his life will be spared. For six
days, under the new Constable, Paris is a well-
governed city, On the seventh day, the Constable
puts on his armour and scatters Charles the Rash
and his Burgundians to the winds. He comes
back in time to be hanged, and the King, more in-
tensely doubled-up than ever, sees his way to two
more jokes. He postpones the hanging for as
long as a candle will burn, and while the grease
thereof dribbles on to Paris he offers to put the
execution off altogether if some one else will be
hanged instead. Then the lady offers to take
Villon’s place on the gallows or to marry him. The
disgusted King starts to confiscate her property ;
the idea of a high-born beauty of his court having
to take in washing to help support her newly
married state being one that strikes him favor-
ably. But, owing to the hostile attitude of the
army and other circumstances, Louis XI. sud-
denly rises to state that he is an old man of the
best intentions, and pardons everybody, and lets
the Constable retain his billet, and the lady her
estates, and bids them be happy ever after.
Probably he hanged them both at a quiet oppor-
tunity later on.
• * * *
Three characters, all very well played,
constitute the bulk of the drama. Cuyler
Hastings is more attractive as Francois Villon
than in his previous capacity of Sherlock Holmes.
He is a manly poet, with a long sword, and
a tall swagger, and a mighty thirst, and the
Bohemian abandon with which he smacks the
King on the back appeals to the public. He
is a manly Constable also, and fills both
parts for all they are worth—which is
less than it might be. Atholwood’s Louis XI.
is an excellent piece of character acting, though
the mean, wise, hunchy little King, with the
rusty black suit, and the leaden, far-seeing eye,
and the long, withered hand that clawed at all
Europe, grows rather stereotyped. He is always
old in drama, like Uncle Tom ; yet, at the time
when the Burgundians besieged Paris, he was
only middle-aged, and his father’s left-off suits,
which he had inherited, were still comparatively
new ; and instead of hiring stray drunks to defend
him, he fought like a demon at Mont l’hery, and
stained his clothes with so much blood that they
never looked decent again. Miss May Chevalier,
who was rather disappointing as Sherlock
Holmes’s best girl, is vastly improved as Villon’s
best girl. Roland Stavely makes Oliver le Daim
another Louis XI., only blacker, and wormier
and more apologetic. Hamilton Stewart’s Tristan
l’Hermit is a rather vigorous and picturesque
ruffian, and Mrs. D’Arey Reid and Miss Mabel
Lane are especially commendable. A quantity
of thieves, vagabonds, executioners, nobles, pub-
licans, and other trash will possibly be sorted out
next week. One or two persons who require a
certain amount of reproof are among them.
** * *
At Sydney Lyceum, “The Derby Winner”
will run his last race on Friday, and on Saturday
Bland Holt revives “White Heather”—a play
that can stand a great deal of reviving. Until
Friday, little Mary, the housemaid, will continue
to stray about the gilded halls to say goodbye to
the earls and countesses, as is the habit of the
peerage’s housemaid when leaving her job with
suspicions on her character. The scenery in
the “D. W.” is much better than the hero.
The mists rise yard by yard from the Downs
at daybreak, and then the right horse wins the
Derby, retrieving the characters of all the good
people in a vague but highly picturesque sort of
way.
»* * *
“ Uncle Tom’s Cabin ” goes more smoothly
than before at Sydney Criterion, but the gloom is
about as great, though brightened with Jean
Drummond’s singing and other irrelevant touches.
By the way, _ St. Clair boasts a most curious col-
lection of piebald lady niggers, most of whom
possess octoroon or quadroon faces, set off with
European hands (pearl powdered at that). Why
they weren’t bought up by an enterprising dime
museum manager nobody explains. A cheerful
Emmeline is sold into dreadful soul bondage to
Legree without much sign of woe, and the chorus
firls state that they are yearning for-the Golden
_ bore just as they yearned last week. Also, Eva
is allowed to die in the usual fashion. They are
always going to send round to the doctor or
the chemist about Eva’s cough, but, while they are
thinking of it, the piebald niggers start singing
about Canaan’s happy shore, or Daniel or Jonah,
etc., and everybody forgets about the chemist.
“ A Trip to Chicago” is promised for next week.
** * *
“The Worst Woman in London” will
definitely take her bad character away from
Sydney Palace this week (Nov. 28). From
present appearances this theatre will take a rest
for a month or so. Times are somewhat dull
theatrically in Sydney just now, owing, perhaps,
to the advent of the hot weather —perhaps to the
shadow cast before of the coming depression; and
the removal of one theatre from the competition
for audiences will not be unwelcome to other
managers.
** * *
To the Sydney Tivoli programme, which
has just now a somewhat greater than ordinary
amount of violent pink leg, the Nawns last week
brought another artistic sketch of Irish life—
“ Major Bourke.” The comedy is mingled with
a good deal of sentiment—the Major is an
old Irish soldier, who, though almost starving,
keeps faithful to a big monetary trust reposed
in him, and refuses to get food, at the price of
a harmless embezzlement—and shows Mr. Tom
Nawn favorably in a new type of character.
Reception of the little piece was decidedly en-
thusiastc. Another new item was supplied by
the Schenk Bros., acrobats, whose agile strength
recalls Cinquevalli. One Schenk, for instance,
walks up and down stairs with the other Schenk
balanced on him head to head. The Wiltons,
Winton, and A. G. Spry are other good features
of the programme.
** * *
Miss Madeline Royle, a pupil of Herr
Kretschmann’s, gave a pianoforte recital of
difficult or beautiful (or both) compositions at
the Centenary Hall last week to a good audience.
She was assisted by Miss Julie Davies and Mr.
Cyril Monk.
** * *
Melba in grand opera came to pass at
Melbourne Princess’s last Saturday, and was not
such a notable event as she would have been a
month earlier. The house was not crowded, ex-
cept in the dress circle. In the amphitheatre,
where the attendance was only moderate
for a Saturday night, the broad expanses
of bare bench amounted to a satire on
the management’s suspension of the free list.
Pressmen, who are ordinarily engaged in
working for George Musgrove’s interests, under
sufferance, were frozen out of the theatre. All
the pressmen in Melbourne might have been com-
fortably seated in 10s. 6d. seats at the Princess’s
last Saturday. So it seems that the little weeklies
which responded to the management’s recent
contempt, by ignoring all the Melba performances,
have at last got the sneer on their side. In this
fickle country the sneer never stays long on any
side.
••* • •
What is the matter with Melba, a singer
of undoubted celebrity, that she didn’t even get
an “ovation,” or half an ovation, on making her
first Australian appearances in two of her most
famous characters ? Tall, graceful and bonnie, she
looked her young girl parts well enough ; she
acted them prettily ; she sang them as they have
never been sung in Melbourne since Signora
Cuttica’s time. Probably the plump, unimposing
Signora was nearly equal to Melba in voice and
vocalism, although she never had a great market
value. Impossible to preserve a distinct re-
collection of a Voice for many years. One can
only remember its effect upon oneself. Present
scribe thinks Melba surpasses the Cuttica of yore
as Gilda in “Rigoletto” and Marguerite in
“ Faust.” Her tones have a peculiar quality of
youthfulness. The fine, honest, unaffected singing
is in itself most admirable, whilst in the voice
there is enchantment for anyone who wants to
enjoy the good things of this world without con-
sidering whether they might be more wonderful, or
less expensive, or not so wearisomely “ boomed.”
People who now doubt the beauty—the wai-mth,
color, freshness —of Melba’s voice ate the same
who were more or less deaf and blind to
the attractions of Dolores until circumstances
swayed their judgment. Melba was great as
Gilda, the hunchback’s daughter. Her “Caro
nome ” air was a dream of sweet melody. And
the Marguerite performance (garden scene act and
last act) brought out all her art of expressing
emotion with the least possible theatrical display.
Melba is often accused of coldness as an artist, but
this scribe would call her remarkable for
undemonstrative warmth. The prima-donna’s
share of the limited entertainment deserved more
enthusiasm than it got. For the rest, there
was a company of three assistant principals (plus
Miss Maud Harrington for a minute or two) and
no chorus, the acts being chosen to admit of
“grand opera” on this extraordinary scale of
economical completeness. Madame Slapoffski
appeared ’ as Siebel, instead of a contralto, and
subsequently did a quick-change turn as Martha.
Lempriere Pringle was an incidental hired assassin
in the “Rigoletto” scene, and a powerful
Mephisto.
• • * *
Bensaude, the baritone, made a brief,
weak appearance as Gilda’s humpy parent. Louis
Arens was an unpleasing Duke before he came
along ohce again as Faust, in which part he failed
conspicuously as of yore in his principal air, and
was a poor partner for Marguerite in the duets.
The four artists sang the “Faust” selections in
French —un-rapid French which appealed to the
Australian understanding in a way that no native
of France could imitate. Madame Slap.’s pro-
nunciation was especially British. The third and
last appearance of Melba in selections from operas
will take*place on Saturday next (29th).
** * *
“Moths,” in the hands of Musgrove’s
dramatic co. is a moderately pleasing reminder of
two previous productions which Charles Cart-
wright staged in Melbourne at two way-back
periods. Ouida’s lurid drama of immorality
among the dukes and duchesses has grown old for
its age, and Fuschia Leach is an out-of-date cari-
cature these times. Nevertheless, Fuschia and
her tame Duke of Mull appeared to impress a ma-
tinee audience at the Princess’s last Saturday.
The success of the cheerful couple (Miss Edith
Stewart and Sydney Stirling) was very marked,
especially when the lady got out of temper with
the surrounding aristocracy and clean forgot her
cheap ’Murkan accent. ‘ ‘ Moths ” might be better
presented by a co. no stronger in acting capacity
than the crowd at the Princess’s, but more
suited to their parts. Miss Athena Claudius,
as Prince Zouroff’s sister, fills her place
naturally. None of the other sombre characters
is happily played, yet the performance
all round is intelligent. Harcourt Beatty,
as Zouroff, is a profligate of no stage importance,
built on the same lines as Dot Boucicault’s comic
Frenchmen. Miss Farleigh, as the beauteous
heroine, plays spiritedly in the last two acts, and
excites about as little romantic interest as the
Correze who adores her. Albert Grau is a strong,
chubby, husky Jura, not a bit like the calm
personage he ought to be ; Miss Sadler is a color-
less wicked duchess; and Miss Levettiz makes a
pardonable attempt to play Lady Dolly.
#• # *
Her Majesty’s (Melb.) was crowded on
Saturday for a revival of “ Mikado ” ; moreover,
the bulky audience took kindly to this ancient
libel on Japan. In some respects, the revival
beats previous “Mikado” records, or runs them
very close. The girl chorus has never been
younger and brighter than now. Reginald
Roberts scores, freely as Nanki Poo, in spite of a
coarseness in his speaking accents. The singing
voice, which he kept under subjection in “The
Toreador,” turns out to be a healthy, mus-
cular tenor. Florence Young, formerly a
passable Katisha, puts more “make up” and
humor into the sketch this time, and her
enunciation of her song words is excellent.
Carrie Moore, Maud Chetwynd, and the new lady
Lulu Evans are three chippy little maids from the
Jap. seminary. Bathurst improves as Pooh Bah,
and Lauri will be all right as Ko-Ko if he subordi-
nates low comedian Lauri to librettist W. S.
Gilbert. In the name part Thorley doesn’t shine,
but the orchestra and scenic effects are everything
the new generation can reasonably demand.
“Mikado” may be expected to go along until
“ Paul Jones ” is ready to take the stage of the
Williamson temple.
** * *
When the Musgrove dramatic co. was im-
ported nine months ago it had a leading lady
(Miss Lucy Wilson) for the dramas other than
“Sweet Nell.” Now that the other dramas—
“ Sorrows of Satan” and “Moths”—are being
played in Melbourne, there is no Lucy Wilson.
The principal girl-parts fall to Miss * Farleigh,
and they fall rather flat.
** * *
“Little Lord Fauntleroy,” at Melbourne
Bijou, promises to be interesting. The play was
new-fashioned 13 years ago, and has not been imi-
tated or revived meanwhile, so its chance of
success is as good as it was, or better, or worse,
according to how public taste has altered. Then
there is the question re the effect of a bona fide
boy, instead of a precocious damsel disguised as a
boy in the name part. Little Syd. Hallidav is a
handsome, sturdy kiddie of not more than 10. He
got his first stage coaching from Mrs. G. B.
Lewis, and was produced by Hawtrey in the
curtain-raiser “ Counsel’s Opinion.” Women, and
some of the men, were immensely taken by
young Hallidav’s performance in that weak
playlet, although it was very uneven. Sometimes
he talked like an intelligent parrot, but now and
then he would seem absolutely natural and spon-
taneous in speech and action. He’s a very smart
boy, otherwise Hawtrey wouldn’t be pegging
away at the task of teaching him the part of
Fauntleroy, with hundreds of lines and any
amount of ‘ ‘ business ” in it. The trouble is to give
the necessary tone of effeminate prettiness to the
elocution and style of a boyish boy. If Hawtrey,
who plays the old Earl, can bring his young friend
along successfully the play will take care of itself.
The child and the old-man characters are all
important.
* * * <fe
Fitzgeralds’ buildings was packed every-
where on Saturday night, when a tank act was
added to the Circus’ aerial and terrestrial “ turns.”
So far, the Fitz repertoire traverses Earth, Air,
and Water. Probably, they’ll soon invade the
fourth Element, and bill a ‘ ‘ Stampede of animals
from the burning prairie.” The “Water Spec-
tacle” has departed from its early melodrama in-
tentions and resolved itself into “Sports on the
Village Arena,” in the course of which sundry
animals undergo (the ordeal of the tank, each
facing the music in its own characteristic way.
The cow is taken unawares by the cold plunge.
She does the unlooked-for trip in an indifferent
way, apparently regarding it as a new scheme
for watering milk. The horses seem excited and
flurried and cause enough splash to make things
nasty for an unseated rider. Elephant Liz. for
sheer sense, is the flower of the swim. With
the cross though conscientious air of an adult
Baptist, she plumps in of her own accord, heaves
out again and waddles off to her warm bed.
Sometimes at rehearsal Lizzie takes possession of
the Tank and bathes at large until the manage-
ment goes distracted, but on Saturday she went
in and out with docility and despatch.
** * m
The clever Montrose acrobats have come
along to Melbourne Opera House from Sydney
Tivoli, otherwise the programme is much the
same as last week. Cinquevalli’s last night seems
to have been indefinitely postponed, and Wallace
Brownlow is suspected of an intention to let loose
a new and stirring Australian Anthem next
Saturday. Several previous anthems have flitted
across the mind of this continent like shadows,
but the forthcoming effort is thought to be of an
enduring—not to say sticky—character.
#* m *
Of the farewell Dolores Recitals at Melb.
Town Hall it is only necessary to remark that the
triumphant little lady will arrive at her fifth
recital to-night (Thursday). Further information
re the Dolores Boom can be obtained from the
advts. Presumably Mdlle. will resume tier fare-
well on Saturday, seeing that last Saturday she
had the Town Hall crammed full, and the shout
of the audience after her “Carnival of Venice”
(with variations) was perhaps the loudest and
most legitimate uproar of its kind in local musical
history.
«* * *
The biff between Badger Purvis and
the Chicken will be withdrawn from Melbourne
Royal after Friday, to the deep regret of all who
admire vigorous forms of dramatic art. Some
nights the ruffled Badger threatens to knock out
the Chicken with an unrehearsed delivery upon the
latter’s jaw, butup to now theprize fight has always
ended in a spurious collapse of Badger aforesaid.
“Saturday Night in London,” taking one con-
sideration with another, deserves a longer run
than a fortnight. It is full of life—and death.
The scene following the Fight starts with
the murder of Miss Guildford by Stirling
White, who subsequently casts Temple Har-
rison from a house-top and throws his
best girl down several flights of stairs,
after which Willard drops White off the
housetop with two bullets in his debased interior,
and the scene closes. Willard’s own death by
violence is reserved for the final chapter, in
accordance with precedent. In nine Anderson
dramas out of every ten Willard is the lucky last
corpse. Next Saturday (29th) “A London Arab”
will shake his grimy tatters at the Royal.
** * *
Adelaide Royal has remained closed, but
Maggie Moore is promised for the end of the
month. Howard Vernon, always a favorite in
Adelaide, has dropped down at the Tivoli with a
co. of his own, and played Planquette’s opera of
20 years ago, “Rip van Winkle.” Otherwise
Melba had the city all to herself, and her two con-
certs crammed the Town Hall as it has, perhaps,
never been crammed before. Melba made herself
very popular in Adelaide, sending £5O each to the
Hospital, Children’s Hospital, and Maternity
Home, and visiting each institution in turn.
Also she visited the fire station, where she offered
to climb an escape if Super. Booker would go
first. But that official carries too much avoir-
dupois to take on any such contract.
The Wild Cat Column.
It is reported that, when the Commonwealth
takes over the State debts and starts to renew them as
they fall due, Treasurer Turner (if he is still in office) will
probably float the early renewal loans in Paris, instead of
London. The idea certainly looks commendable, so far
as concerns that part of the renewal loans which can’t be
taken up locally. The Bank of France has over three
times as much cash in hand as the Bank of England—it
held, at recent advices, about £124,000,000, against the
Bank of England’s £36,000,000. It was lending at 1 per
cent, less than the Bank of England. France is now
almost as large a lender of money to foreign countries as
Britain is, and, at present, it certainly has a great deal
more loose cash to spare. A vast amount of French money
is now being lent out in London, and under these cond i tions
it might be worth while to explain that an honest, indus-
trious, and respectable Commonwealth, which wasn’t
going on any wild jamborees of its own, but merely
wanted to convert existing debts and make them a first
charge on its revenues, desired accommodation. Finan-
cing in Paris should be at least J per cent, cheaper than
in London just now. (N.B. —Dan O’Connor, who has a
beautiful French accent, might be sent over to interview
leading Parisian bankers on the subject.)
•*• • • •
Concerning the Bank of New South Wales,
whose balance-sheet is crowded out of the advertising
columns of this issue, but will appear next week
Added
Profits. Dividends. to Re- Reserves.
serves.
£• £ £ £
Sept., 1897.. 1,210,564
March, 1898.. 88,129 9 p.c. = 87,750 379 1,216,943
Sept., 1898.. 88,042 9 „ „ 87,750 292 1,217,235
March, 1899.. 88,738 9 „ „ 87,750 988 1,218,223
Sept., 1899.. 89,544 9 „ „ 87,750 1,794 1,220,017
March, 1900.. 99,859 9 „ „ 90,000 9,859 1 229,876
New share premiums added to reserve 46,404 1,276,280
Sept., 1900.. 100,463 10 „ ~100,000 463 1,276,743
March, 1901..100,153 10 „ ~100,000 153 1,276,896
Sept., 1901.-104,647 10 „ ~ 100,000 4,647 1,281,543
March, 1902.. 115,507 10 „ ~100,000 15,507 1,297,050
Sept., 1902..118,229 10 „ „ 100,000 18,229 1,315,279
The earnings represent £7 3s. sd. per cent, per annum on
the shareholders’ funds as at the commencement of the
half-year (paid-upcapital, £2,000,000; reserves, £1,297,050;
total, £3,297,050), as compared with £7 os. 10d., earned
during the half-year to March, 1902. The profits have
increased remarkably during the five years covered by the
above figures.
,* * • •
Some signs of an increasing scarcity of money
in Australia are visible in the B.N.S.W.’s balance-sheet.
During the past six months, note-circulation, deposits,
bills payable, bills receivable, cash and liquid securities
have all diminished a little. Probably the increasingly
hard-up condition of the N.S.W. Government’s account is
responsible for all these things. The Bank of New South
Wales has a note circulation of £950,370 ; deposits
£21,069,810, and total liabilities to the public, £24,489,557.
Against this it holds £7,462,197 of cash and liquid
securities, equal to nearly 31 per cent. It is a splendidly
solid concern in every way, and looks like the most
durable thing in N.S.W. in these unstable times.
* * * »
The Australasian Temperance and General
Mutual Life Assurance Society (Melbourne) shows a


tramways.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Proprietary, Ltd.,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., Of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material
|NP“ Locomotives from 10 to 250 li.p. "TN|
STOCKS JN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel
Sleepe.s, Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical
advice gratuitously rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated
Catalogues and Photographic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different
parts of the World, upon application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
ADVT
Norman Godkm, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject toinspection. Cable address: “Option,"
Melbourne.*
* * * *
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-street, Melbourne,
having returned from his visit to England, is now pre-
pared to purchase approved Mines and Mining Properties
situated in any part of Australasia requiring Capital for
Development and Machinery. Only genuine and
legitimate ventures, capable of bearing the strictest
examinations, will be entertained.*
* * * *
A revolution in smelting furnaces seems pro-
bable. The aid of gasoline has not been recognised.
Ernest de Beer, 439 Bourke-street. Melbourne, supplies
forms to suit assayers, which are marvellous in their
efficiency.*
.* * * *
There is not a headache in a case of Invercauld
(Scotch) or Brigadier (Irish) whisky. They are mild
mellow, and matured. Bennell and Bennell, Creek St.,
Brisbane. Ina, Coope and Co. celebrated English Pale
Ales.*
• • • •
Complaints of stagnation in the engineering
trade are as rife as ever, but, judging by the large stock
of Refrigerating and Ice-making machinery now at the
engineering works of Mephan Ferguson, Melbourne, he
must expect to do a large business in these machines
during the coming summer season. The prices for all
sizes have been greatly reduced, and purchasers are
invited to inspect and test these Refrigerators before
purchasing. This firm has also introduced up-to-date
machinery for manufacturing bolts and nuts, rivets, dog
spikes and every discription of ironwork.*
* * * »
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-streeb, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
• * * *
The Insurance Journal, London, writes of
the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society’s latest
report“ The results for the year are all round very
gratifying showing that the old business has been weil
maintained, the new business largely increased, the funds
materially strengthened and the rate of interest earned
higher.*
* * • •
Mine Managers, Engineers, &c. will learn with
interest that the Dunlop Rubber Mills, Melbourne, are
prepared to quote prices and submit samples of Suction,
Drill or Air Hose, Packing, valves, etc. Quality and
prices the best in Australasia. Samples and prices upon
application.*
• • • •
The great success of the Wilfley patent Con-
centrator since its merits became known to the mining
community of Australia, has led to imitations and
piracies under various names being placed upon the
market. The Wilfley Ore Concentrator Syndicate of
London, who own the Australian patents, have decided to
prosecute all users and vendors of concentrating machines
infringing their patents, and action has been commenced
in Victoria. Similar action to protect their rights had to
be taken in America, where the Supreme Court has up-
held Wilfley’s patents, granting an injunction and
damages against the users and vendors of the infringing
machine. The sole manufacturers in Australia of Wilfley's
patent concentrator are the Austral Otis Engineering
Company of South Melbourne, who supply customers
direct or through any of their accredited agents, in the
various mining centres.*
• • • 'S •
Many doubtful claims have been advanced on
behalf of duplex pumps. Some makers state that their
duplex pumps are “ double the capacity of single pumps
of same diameter and stroke.” An A. S. Cameron single-
acting pump can be run safely and comfortably at a speed
that would knock a duplex pump to pieces. But even at
a low speed, duplex pumps seldom attain even their
theoretical capacities, and the reason for this can be
readily explained. Apply to the Agents, Messrs. W and
J. Lempnere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne for
further particulars. The A. S. Cameron pumps are noted
for their simplicity, durability, and absence of outside
valve gear.*
IMS IST OM CETTIMG
?
eß/Agrib .
GreemMamgo.Cashmere
4& •
ADVT
ADVT
All C tid
solid improvement in some respects for the year which
closed on 30th September, 1902 :
Ordinary Life Department.
Added to Total
Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
1894 £38,304 £7,906 £11,987 £18,411 £170,678
1895 38,120 8,134 13,103 16,883 1
£19,915 written off for depreciation/ ID '> o4 t>
1896 39,707 10,885 13,349 15,473 183,119
1897 42.757 11,888 15,310 15,589 198,708
1898 46,646 13,816 15,813 17,017 215,725
1899 49,777 17,245 20,033 12,499 228,224
1900 53,572 19,760 25,409 8,403 236,627
1901 61,872 19,909 24,725 17,238 253,865
1902 73,782 18,640 24,559 30,583 284,448
This represents the largest income the Australasian Tem-
perance and General has ever collected in one year.
Also, the addition made to the funds is the largest which
the office has ever recorded in one year, and the reduction
in the expense rate is something considerable.
The Australasian Temperance and General
Society’s Industrial Department also shows signs of
improvement. Its record is as follows :
Industrial Life Department.
Added to Total
Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
1894 .. ±10,224 £3,342 £2494 £43BS £38,778
1895 .. 9,592 3,301 5958 3331 n .„
£4061 Written off for Depreciation / dt>,UoU
Taken from
Funds.
1896 .. 9,500 4,490 ‘ 7192 2182 32,868
1897 .. 13,067 14,741 5892 7566 25,302
1898 .. 17,878 16,744 5680 4546 20,756
1899 .. 24,200 20,560 6924 3284 17,472
Added to
Funds.
1900 .. 29,104 19,839 7461 1804 19,276
1901 .. 40,198 26,938 7724 5536 24,812
1902 .. 53,597 35,444 8294 9859 34,671
The attention of the management is hereby drawn to the
remarkable fact that the accounts of neither of its depart-
ments balance, there being a discrepancy of £l5O. In the
above statements they have been made to balance in an
unsatisfactory sort of way by deducting £l5O from the
revenue of the Ordinary Department as shown in the
balance-sheet, and adding it to the revenue of the
Industrial Department. It is a small discrepancy, but an
office conducted on the strictly Rechabitish principles of
the T. and G. shouldn’t have discrepancies.
In point of expenses the Temperance and
General shows up as follows :
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
Ordinary Industrial
Department. Department.
1894 .. £2O 12 10 per cent. £32 13 9 per cent.
1895 21 6 9 „ 34 8 3
1896 27 8 3 ~ 47 5 3
1897 .. 27 15 8 „ 112 16 3 „
1898 .. 29 12 4 „ 93 13 2 „
1899.. 341211 „ 8419 2 „
1900 .. 36 17 8 „ 68 3 4
1901 ... 32 3 7 „ , 67 0 3 „
1902 25 5 3 ~ 66 2 7 „
There is a great reduction of expenses in the Ordinary
Life D e p ar tm?nt, yet even there the rate is still too high.
In the Industrial Department there is a small reduction
of expenses, but the expense-rate there may even now be
characterised as outrageous. A class of business in
which, for every shilling contributed by the policy-
holder, he gets 4d. worth of life assurance and Bd. worth
of expenses, is the sort that the public would do well to
avoid.
' ’ • ■ 5
Last year the Temperance and General’s Ordi-
nary Life Department earned £12,017 in interest and
rents, equal to £4 9s. 4d. per cent, per annum on the
average funds. This is a falling away from the £4 10s. 3d.
per cent, earned in 1901, but better than the £4 6s. Id.
per cent, of 1900 : and, in any case, it is a good average
rate. The Industrial Department earned £1326,
equal to £4 9s. 2d. per cent, as compared with £4 10s. 2d.
per cent, in 1901, and £4 ss. 7d. per cent, in 1900 —
also a good average rate. The assets look respectable
enough, the worst feature being that the co. holds
£35,452 of property as mortgagee in possession, as com-
pared with £104,046 of live mortgages. This is an ex-
ceedingly large proportion of the mortgaged properties
to be abandoned and left on the mortgagee’s hands,
though, as the rate of interest earned is reasonably high,
it is possible that full provision has been made for any
possible loss. Taken as a whole, the T. and G. Society
looks better than it did last year and much better than
the year before, though there is still much space for
improvement.
• • . a
. “Admirer”: The loss, even if not covered by
insurance, isn’t large enough to affect the institution in
the least.
• • a a
The Swan Brewery Co. (Perth, Westralia)
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves.
March, 1898 £32 123
Sept., 1898.. £13,171 Nil £3297 4L997
March, 1899.. 17,709 12 p.c. =£4565 8984 46,157
Sept., 1899.. 9,762 16 „ „ 6087 4717 45,115
March, 1900.. 15,971 16 „ ~ 6087 3517 51,482
Sept., 1900.. 16,861 20 „ ~ 7609 2579 58,155
March, 1901.. 17,031 20 „ „ 7609 1547 66,030
Sept., 1901.. 15,092 24 ~ „ 9131 1345 70,646
March, 1902.. 20,483 24 „ „ 9131 554 81 444
Sept:, 1902.. 15,144 24 „ „ 9131 617 86,840
The paid-up capital (partly paid up out of accumulated
profits, by the way) is £76,088, so the reserves are now
very large in proportion. But, despite its splendid profits,
the Swan Brewery Co. is spreading out and acquiring
hotels and new premises in so many directions that its
funds are quite inadequate. At 30th September it owed
£23,263 in mortgages on its hotels, and £31,342 in the
shape of bank overdraft. During the last six months the
co. acquired £51,186 worth of new hotels—which fully
explains the position. This is a very large amount of
hotel to acquire in six months. Possibly the Swan Co.
may discover some day that it has been spreading too
fast. Possibly it may not.
* * * *
The Colonial Mutual Fire Insurance Co.
(Melbourne) closed another highly profitable year on 30th
September, 1902. In 1901 it added £12,500 of its profits
to capital, and this year it adds a similar amount. The
position is best shown by exhibiting the amount of the
dividend on the capital of £37,500 actually paid up by
shareholders, and by showing capital and reserves together
as “ total shareholders’ funds ” :
L Dividends on Written Added Share-
JjOBS - £37,500 off. holders
runas. Funds>
1891.. £25,647 Nil £2722 £17,589
Profit.
1892.. 4683 Nil 573 £4llO 21,699
1893.. 7139 Nil - 7139 28,838
1894.. 8192 Nil 8192 37,030
1895.. 8584 Nil 2000 6584 43,614
1896.. 8790 5 per cent=£lB7s 6915 50,529
1897 4 . 8848 6 „ „ 2250 1000 5598 56,127
Loss.
1898.. 3986 Nil 52,141
Profit.
1899.. 18,922 Bpercent= 3000 2000 13,922 66,063
1900.. 16,184 8 „ ~ 3000 2000 11,184 77,247
1901.. 27,789 10/13/4 ~ 4000 23,789 101,036
1902.. 25,059 13/6/8 „ 5000 20,059 121,095
This is not exactly how the co. shows its accounts, but it
exhibits the real position as accurately as possible. In
1901 the co. carried £12,500 of profits to capital, making
the latter £50,000, and it called' its dividend (£4000) 8 per
cent, on £50,000. In 1902 it adds another £12,500 of pro-
fits to capital, and it calls its dividend (£5000) 8 per cent,
on £62,500. But the real position as it affects the original
shareholders is as shown above.
During the last eleven years the Colonial Mutual
Fire Insurance Co. has provided £10,295 to cover depre-
ciation of assets; has added £25,000 to its capital out of
profits; and has changed a deficit of £19,911 into a
reserve of £53,595. The shareholders’ funds have, there-
fore, increased during this period by £103,506. In 1891
the co.’s foreign business had reduced it to a very low
ebb. It had been practising the policy of “a wide
diffusion of risks,” which bogus insurance experts are so
fond of declaring to be essential ; when it is proposed to
start a State Fire Insurance Department, the busi-
ness of which will necessarily be confined to one
State, the contempt of certain experts for the ama-
teur persons who can’t see that a “ wide diffusion
of risks” is the only way to success is some-
thing appalling. Now, after 11 years of a non-diffusion
policy, the Colonial Mutual is one of the richest fire
offices in Australia. Its assets, too, are mostly good
liquid securities—State securities and bank deposits—
and the income from investments alone (£3873) is sufficient
in itself to pay 10 per- cent, on the original capital of
£37,500.
* jJ- » m *
Melbourne Age suggests that, considering all
the deficits, the Australian Government should make
advances to the hard-up States, as authorised by the Con-
stitution- But five States out of the six have deficits,
and the Australian Governmentcan’t raise enough from the
sixth State (Westralia) to help the five even if any sane
person would dream of thus robbing one Peter to help
five Pauls. And if the Australian Government borrows
money for the States to use as revenue—well, the States
are good enough at that themselves, and should do their
own dirty work. The Australian Government has before
it the task of taking over and consolidating and renewing
the State debts. It will have to borrow' for that purpose,
and to borrow cheaply it must keep its own credit clean.
To begin by raising loans for the States to use as revenue
would be killing the reputation on which its success
depends. The only thing the Australian Government can
do is to practise all reasonable economy itself, and to im-
pose some direct taxation so as to get the means to assist
the States which lack the courage to tax themselves suffi-
ciently. There is no other way, apart from the old
nefarious device of using loans as revenue.
The National Fire and Marine Insurance
Co. (Dunedin, Maoriland) shows, for the year to 30th Sep-
tember, 1902, even more than its usual prosperity :
Written Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. Reserves, serves.
1893 £111,566
1894 £19,395 15 p.c. =£14,706 £5400 £110,855
1895 16,981 15 „ „ 14,706 2123 £152 111,007
1896 16,740 15 „ „ 14,706 2248 110,793
1897 16,216 16 „,, 14,706 986 624 111,317
1898 8,846 121 .. >, 12,255 _ 107,908
1899 20,028 121 ~ 12,255 7,773 115,681
1900 26,388 121 » » 12,255 1000 13,133 128,814
1901 24,600 121 » » 12,255 12,345 141,159
New share premiums added to reserve 2,029 143,188
1902 32,436 121 p.c. = 12,500 19,936 163,124
The National Insurance Co. last year issued at a hand-
some premium 3925 unallotted shares, making its paid-up
capital £lOO,OOO. The year just closed has certainly been
a magnificently prosperous one ; yet even now the
National hasn’t quite made up its lost ground. In the
early eighties its reserves reached £200,000. In those
days the old familiar mania for a wide diffusion of busi-
ness seized upon it, and it spread itself to England,
India, and other remote places. In 1894 it had just
begun to recover from that disastrous experiment, in
which much good Maori legal tender was lost, and which
is not likely to be repeated. Very good progress is cer-
tainly being made with the repairing process, and the
National Fire and Marine Insurance Co. of Maoriland is
now a sounder concern than it ever was before. As a
side issue, last year’s income from interest and rents was
£lo,3o6—more than sufficient in itself to pay a 10 per
cent, dividend. Also, the net premium income is now
£109,476.
• * * •
B.H. Block 10 completes another very poor
half year, with a total profit on working account of
only £lO7 ; even then no allowance is made for depreci-
ation. The only cheerful features are that the co. is
improving its appliances, and that it has not been selling
any of its by-products.
'•• • •
“Waddy”: The Cobar Chesney mine share-
holders evidently intend going on with work, and from
chairman Cain’s remarks the hope of smelting the ore is
not finally extinguished. Considering that the ore
carries 85 per cent, insoluble matter, and counting same
as silica—to make a 45 per cent, silica slag it would require
just about 2 tons of the 50 per cent, iron ore the co. has
developed to flux every 1 ton of ore. That is to say, the
furnace charge would contain about one-third ore. Allow-
ing 4 per cent, copper in the ore a metallurgist might be
expected to recover about three units of the four,, or
roughly, about 275. worth of material to .pay the cost of
smelting, refining and realisation. Some gold is supposed
to be in the ore, which would add to the value of the
product, and at the same time increase realisation costs.
Water-concentration has not been a howling success ;
crushing to about 2-inch ring and passing on to a
travelling belt to let boys pick it free from abso-
lutely clean rock, with concentration afterwards of
the enriched balance, might show' more favorably. The
Elmore Oil process ought to be worth trying if the oil-
ring in Australia isn’t too greedy, but magnetic separa-
tion for copper ores of this class has not reached the
point of absolute success, and, if it does so, the dust-
problem in connection with magnetic separation is a
difficult thing to overcome. Perhaps the crowd with the
option on Great Cobar has the best solution to offer—
viz., amalgamation with the Great Cobar scheme.
•' • * •
Cobar Chesney half-yearly report is as cheerful
a document as could be expected from a mine in which
little or no work has been done. Total expenditure on
mine-development was £247, exclusive of salaries ; and
“ to exercise supervision,” as Chairman Cain puts it, over
this expenditure, £363 had to be paid in directors’ fees
and travelling expenses, and £258 to “ Melbourne office,”
in addition to which there is the customary Chesney item
of “ reports and sampling,” £247. It would be interesting
to have a record of the total amount which has been
paid by this unfortunate co. for “expert” reports,
and still more- interesting to know how much
more of added wisdom there is as the result.
Exception was taken at the meeting to the seemingly ex-
cessive amounts for directors’ fees and office expenses, but
Mr. Cain satisfied the discontented u’ith the statement
that, “ as far as the duties of the directors are concerned,
it doesn’t make any difference whether the mine is closed
down or not; they still had to exercise supervision ;it is
the same whether cheques for £5O or £5OO have to be
signed.” Chairman notified that it would be necessary
to make a call of ljd. to meet debenture interest, due in
January, and, he might have added, directors’ fees and
office expenses. The most encouraging feature of the
meeting was the speech made by Manager Woolooek, a
gentleman whom no one would accuse of being tainted
with a suspicion of optimism. He spoke in glowing
terms of the prospects generally, and strongly urged
shareholders to stick to their interests, which re-
mark revealed the M‘Eacharn in a new character—
that of a hflinorist—as he retorted :“ We must—we can’t
sell them.” Rumors have been current for some time that
co. was developing what was likely*fco prove a very valu-
able iron flux deposit, but no official intimation on the
subject has been forthcoming until now. The deposit is
about four miles from the mine, and for 50ft. deep it is
described as massive ironstone, assaying over 50 per cent,
metallic iron. The width at surface is 40ft. for several
chains in length. It is said that “ locally the indications
are regarded as being highly favorable to the occurrence
of copper or other metallic bodies at depth.” Should
further development prove the existence of an exten-
sive body of this class of ironstone, it will mean the
salvation of the Chesney co. It will leave no
doubt as to how and where to treat the immense
quantities of ore which are in sight —it will
hardly be necessary’ even for the directors to have
another “expert” report. The question which they
will have to face will be how to raise the money for the
requisite smelting equipment, which, on a scale'commen-
surate with the capacity of the mine, will cost not less
than £40,000, so that with the amount owing on deben-
tures £60,000 will be wanted. Reconstruction or increase
of capital will be inevitable as the uncalled capital is only
£7875. Additional capital to the amount of 4s. per share
might meet the case.
The explanation, or defence, or whatever it is,
published by Alex. Stewart and Geo. Smith, formerly
general and mining managers of the Chillagoe, amounts
to about this : Some bad men got hold of them, and used
them, and then threw them away and said that it was all
their fault. They say that they didn’t know they were
being used—that they didn’t think the men for whom
they were working were capable of such things. Yet,
though the directors’ “ peculiar ” ways of doing business
were from the outset noted by Mr. Stewart, he
doesn’t seem to have taken proper trouble to guard
against being “used.” On the contrary he boomed the
concern by plunging into a huge scheme of development
without finding out for sure that there was the money
to carry it through ; and, as the public assumed that
a general manager who drew £lO,OOO or so a year, and
whose name was Alexander Stewart into the bargain,
wouldn’t start work where there wasn’t the funds to finish,
the public bought shares, and fell in. Mr. Stewart blames
the directors for stopping work before it was half finished ;
but the public will blame Stewart for starting work at all
without having found out something about co.’s resources.
Afterwards, he made a still worse blunder; and again,
curiously enough, the result was to drag the public in
still deeper. It was just when some of the plunging
crowd were beginning to smell rats, and when it was,
therefore, very necessary to “ restore confidence ’’—there
were still many shares unsold. Mr. Stewart was there-
fore asked to estimate the quantity and value of ore
exposed in the 16 months he had been at work. He had
made an estimate in June, 1898—had reckoned 500,000
tons as having been as good as proved above the 100 ft.
level in the co.’s properties. Now, after 16 months’
more, he still reported 500,000 tons as proved.
The directors evidently thought that wasn’t good enough
to restore confidence with, and invited Mr. Stewart
to say that it was another 500,000 tons altogether. But
he could not say that; what he did say was that it was a
“distinct estimate.” The other really was not proved
ore at all; this was—“ proven by work'on portions only ”
of the ground covered in 1898 ; that is, on the portion
to which work had been confined. And in another
wire he said that this portion was only a small
part of the whole. That, as a means of getting
over the rats, was better; and no doubt somebody
sold some more shares. Yet now Mr. Stewart says that
the estimate, instead of being of ore proved on only a
small part of the co.’s property, was “ a general estimate
of the whole field 1 ” Surely some friend ought to have
taken Mr. Stewart aside before this was printed and told
him that, of all the things that have been said about him,
nothing worse has been said than he here proposed to say
about himself. And, worse still, he in a way defends
what he did (though he admits he ought to have
been more careful) by saying that “ absolutely no expen-
diture depended upon the estimate.” That might be
so as far as the co. was concerned, but it is quite
possible that a lot of people expended their money
on the strength of the estimate. What a de-
fence to make for the man who, reckoning by posi-
tion and salary, was at the head of Australian mining
engineers 1 It will be poor satisfaction for the public who
fell in to know that Mr. Stewart most likely fell in, too.
He didn’t get their money—that went in other directions
altogether. And it was not a fair arrangement, because
it was he who (for the most part, if not altogether,
unwittingly) made the transfer of cash, so easy and big.
* * * ■ m
Mr. Smith makes out a stronger case. If his
statements are true, the directors are chargeable with
concealing the true state of affairs for over five months,
and the surprise expressed by them in June, 1901, when,
after a visit to the mine, they shocked the speculative
world with a declaration that there was only a small
supply of ore available for smelting, was simulated,
because in the January previous Mr. Smith says he
submitted a detailed statement which closely corre-
sponded with the estimate subsequently made by
Mr. Weinberg. The circular discloses that there
was considerable friction between the managers and
the Board almost from the start. The managers, on
their own showing, were all anxiety to rush on mine-
development work while the directors were equally
anxious that the main effort should be to complete the
railway and reduction works. The explanation offered
by Messrs. Stewart and Smith for the long delay in
publishing their statement is that they had no wish to
say anything which would influence the shareholders
“ either in favor of or against the proposals of the Board to
save the Company from the position into which they had
brought it.” That sort of whitewash won’t stick.
* * * •
Chillagoe itself is in slightly better feather of
late, but a correspondent writes that the once well-
thought-of Ruddygore has proved disappointing and is
shut up. No winding plant of any size is on any of the
shows that are working, and of the latter Zillmanton,
Boomerang, and Redcap groups are the most promising.
None of them are proved below 250 ft. The furnace has
to go cautiously; it wouldn’t do to outrun the ore supply.
• * • •
The Einasleigh Freehold (N.Q.), having appar-
ently failed to get its £150,000 for another railway, all
work has ceased there except that of two men left in
charge. No one in London at ,this date will look at any-
thing in the neighborhood of Chillagoe. A tremendous
sensation was caused in Georgetown (N.Q.) by two
speculators announcing that the Einasleigh has the coin
for the tram and every miner in the country who owned
a reef immediately saw a>epetitioq of the golden shower
of English money that once poured into Georgetown in
the days when miners slept on night shift, worked five
shifts a week and were paid for six shifts at 13s. 4d. a
shift. Georgetown got drunk on anything that had a bite
in it, and it is probably still-drunk on its disappointment.
David Lindsay is reported to be taking up mines in the
district, and if report can be trusted there are one or two
shows near Georgetown worth investigation, the Durham
and Lord Byron, to wit.
* • • •
Mt. Lyell report for past half-year is satisfactory
enough so far as it relates to the operations of that period.
It shows that 159,450 tons of ore were smelted, or 22,651
tons more than in any other six months. The product
was 3608 tons copper, 341,3460 z. silver, and 11,6810 z. gold.
The declared profit is £45,000, or about £7500 less than
that of the previous half-year, Which is more than
accounted for by the reduced value of copper, the
averages for the two terms being £56 and £53 per ton.
The cost of producing blister coppfer has been reduced from
21s. 3d. to 19s. Bd. per ton of ore.' Total production of-the
mine to Sept. 30 was 43,306 tons copper, 3,609,3620 z. silver,
and 137,1790 z. gold, and £896,886 has been paid in divs.
This is a great record, but the end of the mine would
seem within measurable distance. The report states that
considerable exploration work has been done in the
deeper ground by diamond drill and otherwise, “but
these operations have not disclosed anything of import-
ance.” Although the rich ore worked in the upper level
was met with at No. 8 level, “ it unfortunately did not
prove to be of any large extent.” The candor of this
statement is specially significant. The hope of the future
of the co. will lie in the acquisition of other mines, par-
ticularly N. Lyell.
• * * •
North Mt. Lyell mine : Whispered in Queens-
town that the smelters will not take anything less than
14 per cent, ore, to the extent of 350 tons a day. To get
350 tons, the eyes, also the mouth, ears, and brains
of the mine must be picked out. Pity so good a mine
should be done to death by ignorance ! Copper, too, is
down to the £5O mark again, and while silver stays at
Is. 10Jd., copper can’t rise, nor can lead or tin. There’s
an economic fact lurking in that paragraph.
• * • *
Curtin Davis Co.’s report is a sorry document,
English shareholders, most of whom gave 40s. for their
shares, won’t send in their proxies to permit the directors
to wind up the co. There is £9197 still on hand, a
remarkable survival from the ancient flotation, which the
directors can’t distribute and so must Spend. This is
how they are doing it. Forty-two mines were under con-
sideration during the previous six months, of which 11
were inspected, 5 were being considered, and 26 did not
warrant a visit. The examination of properties cost £l5O
and the wealthy directors took £loo—for supervising a
mme-watchman working for 20s. a week for six months 1
No wonder the British shareholder declines to entrust
such a Board even with his proxy 1
• • • •
After months of goading from Stock Exchange
and press, the Briseis directors have submitted a state-
ment as to the position of affairs at the mine. The new
manager thinks it will be possible to remove the whole of
.?. overburden in 18 months, and meanwhile enough tin
will be won from the southern portion of the workings to
PuV.uT ex P ens es- The directors assure shareholders
that they have every confidence in the property paying
divs. This official statement has not had the effect of
reassuring shareholders, who regard with dismay the
prospect of having to wait for profits for nearly two
years. Profits will depend on the value of tin, and it
will be unprecedented if that metal maintains anythin)?
like its present price for the period named.
* * » •
Great Fingall continues to open out satisfac-
torily at the lower levels, despite all assertions to the
contrary. Unbiassed experts, who have recently in-
spected the mine, are quite enthusiastic over the develop.
ments,and are satisfied that the co. has a very great
future before it, and that ere long it will head the gold
?o 0 0,o cers , 0f A « straJla - During Oct. the mine produced
12,2380 z. from 7643 tons—value, £41,754. As a good deal
has been made by bears and pessimists of the recent fall-
mg on in the value of the gold, it is satisfactory to note
that, on this occasion, the value is £3 Bs. 3d. per oz., the
highest realised since the new mill started. The value
per ton of ore is £5 9s. 3d., which is also a record. The
working costs are about £2.
* * * *
Boulder (W.A.) continues to show a supposed
increased yield of gold from month to month, but the
mcieasem quantity is gained at the expense of qu dity.
The yield for Oct. of 14,5170 z. was valued at £44,535, or
only £3 Is. 4d. an ounce. This means that the bullion
contained practically 28 per cent, of alloy. Nearly two
years ago a furnace to refine the bullion was erected, but,
probably because it would reduce the monthly output by
over 40000 z., it has not been used. No development work
is yet being done at the 1600 ft. level, but a diamond drill
bore is being put in to test the ground to the east. In
the upper levels nothing payable has been found in this
part of the property. It is stated that the Merton
furnaces will reduce the cost of roasting by nearly 25 per
cent., or about a shilling a ton.
• • * *
Associated Northern (W.A.) is still shipping
rich sulpho-telluride ore to Dapto, in addition to treating
oxidised ore at Lakeside battery. During Oct. 1264 tons
were milled for 12210 z., and 1,082 tons smelted for 84600 z.
The gold was valued at £31,900, which leaves a large
margin of profit. The sinking of the main shaft has been
resumed. Nothing further has been heard of the 20-head
mill, which, it was stated, was shortly to be erected on
this property. Co/s second div. of ss. per share means a
distribution of £87,500, a splendid showing for a co. which
has spent no money on treatment plant. The original
£lOO,OOO working capital of the co. is still intact.
* * * *
Hannan’s Reward and Mt. Charlotte (W.A.)
showed a better result for their initial crushing than
anticipated, the average panning out at 15dwts. per ton.
The co.’s exchequer is again in a bad way, the £15,000
provided by the reconstruction in Jan. having already
been expended in patching up old machinery and getting
the mine into working order. To raise the wind tributors
are again to chip in and work the rich narrow veins,
which are a feature of the property. The mine is
absolutely worthless for a Bull co. and will never .yield
any return to shareholders, though it may provide em-
ployment for miners and directors for a long time to come.
* » • *
The Ivanhoe (W.A.) is gradually reducing its
working costs, the figures for Oct. being 355. Bd., the
lowest yet recorded. Kalgurli gives its total at 38s. 10d.,
but this only includes 2s. lOd. for development, against
6s. lOd. in the case of the Ivanhoe, and the latter mine
contains a far more regular formation than the former.
Lake View Consols publishes its costs as 345. 9d, but this
does not include cost of development, repairs or royalty,
and is, consequently, wholly misleading.
The D Arcy Wentworth mine, Lucknow (N S
Wales), was recently auctioned on account of debenture’-
holders, and was bought by Frank Gardner’s representa-
tive for £12,000. It is understood that the successful
Gardner will shortly visit Sydney with his French bride.


DAVID JONES & CO.
ADVT
HIGH-CLASS HATTERS
Panama Hats
(AS ILLUSTRATION),
37/6, 42/=, 45/= to 63/=.
Genuine Pine-Grade
±land Selected.
George & Barrack Sts., Sydney
K
ADVT
1902 PATTERNS.
All the Latest Styles and
Sizes for Every Class of Work-
AMATEUR
OUTFITS
OUR SPECIALITY.
"L VICTOR
30/
Hand Camera.
The Most Popular Camera in Australasia.
Also a Large Stock of
Tripod Cameras
Large Cameras
Hand Cameras
Small Cameras
Pocket Cameras
Tiny Cameras
Latest
Styles
Kodaks
By the World’s Best Makers.
Harrington & Co. Ltd.
Leading Photographic Herchants,
66 KING ST., SYDNEY,
93 QUEEN 5T., BRISBANE
Agents in all the Principal Centres.
Society
Dr. J. A. Beattie, Medical Superintendent
of the N.S.W. Govt. Tubercule Farm, alias
Liverpool Asylum, is off for a long holiday to
Delhi Durbar. It is only quite recently that
this lucky official had a trip to England on
“leave” for some nine months; this second
excursion is to repair his health. The many
unfortunates doomed to death at the deadly
institution over which he presided have no Delhi
in front of them. No one can blame the Medical
Super, for escaping from the sights and sounds at
Liverpool Asylum, but surely the unspeakable
horrors of that institution can only be added to by
the frequent absences of the principal permanent
medical officer.
* * * ' *
Victoria also has its pitiable phthisis
problem. There is no adequate hospital accom-
modation for consumptives, and the small sana-
torium that is provided is always overcrowded.
A little while ago a few beds were by some chance
available, and letters were sent to persons who
had applied before for admission and were “ wait-
ing their turn.” Extracts from some of the
replies :
I received your note, and am sorry to say my son died
two months ago.
The applicant, Frank O’Donoghue, is dead since July.
I am very sorry to state that my daughter Lizzie will
not require the papers you so kindly sent, as she is so
very weak that she is unable to get up from bed, and the
doctor says it is only a matter of a few days.
I thank you and the committee for your kind offer. I
am too weak to travel.
You will, no doubt, be surprised to learn that my dear
sister has passed away since she made her application.
I write to thank you for your kindness in forwarding
the application papers to my sister, but am sorry to state
that she is too ill to think of going to the Sanatorium.
After these six mournful dirges of “Too late”
had been read at a meeting of the committee of
the sanatorium, the secretary was asked “not to
THE SECTARIAN DUCK.
HIS REVERENCE : “ Why didn’t ye cook those ducks when you
knew the Archbishop was coming to lunch?”
MRS. M'NAMARA : “ Well, yer Reverence, ids just this way. I tould John to kill the burrds.
'Dill, Dill, Dill,’ says he, calling them —‘ Macky, Macky, Macky,' says they, wid a
shniff of their yellow beaks; so I took and thought that burrds of that bitther nature
wid grane peas might make the A-r-r-chbishop bilious, and so I sint out for sardines,
and sold those divils to the hay then Chinee cabbage-man.”
read.any more.” Members could not endure the
agony of it. And yet a few hundred pounds spent
by the State on tents set up on a sunny hillside—
if nothing else were possible—would put an end
to much of this misery.
« * * *
A shuddersome cut from the report of the
S. Aus. stock-inspector :
486 cattle were reported with tuberculosis. If in use
for the dairy they were withdrawn from milking and
allowed to fatten.
And still Adelaide calls itself ‘ ‘ the sanitary city ” !
Carnegie threatens to demoralise Australia.
Hardly a week passes without it being mentioned
in the papers that some person or corporation has
written to the big ironmaster asking for some of
the blood-money he made at Homestead. So far,
N.S.W. Works Minister Owe’Sullivan hasn’t ap-
pealed to him for a £5,000,000 loan, but that may
be coining. Rand wick (Sydney) is a wealthy
suburb, inhabited chiefly by M’sP,, horse-owners,
and bookmakers, but even Rand wick is cadging
for the coin wherewith to start a library of yellow-
backed fiction. Carnegie was a hard, brutal suc-
cess in his middle age ; in his declining years he
threatens to be a failure. His pile is going to
found libraries where Mrs. Henry Wood and
Marie Corelli will be poured on the rising genera-
tion ; and to universities of the old mouldering
type, where they teach the bones and skeletons of
dead languages, and the defunct gridirons and
fowls and semaphores that used to be alphabets,
and the dust of the Greek particle, and the old
useless bog of the Latin conjunction. With the
money he has given away, he might have regene-
rated a country like Ireland or Portugal—a coun-
try that wasn’t too large for one man to handle,
and whose people had possibilities. He might
have cleaned out its big landlords, created a
peasant proprietary, established schools of indus-
try where trades, not old metaphysics, would be
taught, and been the founder of a new nation.
And, instead, he has helped to increase the
demand for spectacles, and many blear-eyed gene-
rations will pour over old tomes, and wipe their
green goggles, and call him accursed.
* * * •
When Attorney-General Deakin has a
little spare time he might establish an Australian
Registry of Notaries. Appointments as notary
are at present for sale on application to the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury, Eng., and applications (not
necessarily successful) cost a matter of £OO, part
fees to English law-agents, part fees to the Arch-
bishop’s Surrogate. The regulation is that appli-
cant must hold a certificate from two Notaries of
his town, affirming that he is a “person of
known probity, sober life, and conversation con-
formable to the doctrine of the Church of England
as by law established ” and well affected to King
Ned. Melb. Society of Notaries has formed a
close corporation in order to monopolise the half-
guinea a signature fees, and no one can hope to
buy the Archbishop’s warrant unless he pay hand-
somely to the society at this end as well as to the
Surrogate at t’other side.
• * * •
The W.C.T.U. will fight to the death the
proposal of N.S.W. Liquor Bill to allow beer-
licenses to oyster saloons. There is something
mysteriously salacious about the oyster, some
smack of Cupid, some suggestion of giddiness.
Why? Who knows ? But the W.C.T.U. recog-
nises the fact, and, if it can prevent such a disas-
ter, the immoral midnight oyster won’t be further
buttressed by a beer license. Yet why should
oyster saloons, which are already licensed to sell
Australian wine, not also be licensed to sell Aus-
tralian beer ?
* * * *
Mrs. Sangal was attended at her confine-
ment by two doctors, for fear that Nature should
cheat the hangman. Iceberg Irvine apparently
intends “to take no notice ” of petitions on her
behalf coming from outside Victoria.
Ethel Herringe, a comely housemaid at
the Club House Hotel, Cowra, N.S.W., one night
last week arranged with the local minister, Rev.
R. Seymour-Smith, to attend the hotel after
closing hours to marry her to the proprietor,
M. J. Lee. When the parson arrived at
the kitchen, attended by two witnesses, the pros-
pective bridegroom baulked at the ceremony,
whereupon the girl drew a revolver and wounded
him twice. He is now likely to die. The girl,
when arrested, stated that Lee had sworn “ by his
mother in Heaven ” that if he did not marry her
that night she could shoot him. This Lee said, in
his dying depositions, was correct. Lee was, how-
ever, in total ignorance of the proposed visit of the
parson. Ethel Herringe was in mourning—sup-
posedly for a lover of hers who died at St.
Vincent’s Hospital, Sydney, where he had been
removed from the Drayton Grange. Lee also had
been a contingenter; and there is a strongly
martial flavor about the whole affair—from which,
by the way, it is evident that lovely woman
doesn’t look upon the receipt of the franchise as a
reason why she should abandon the little privileges
of her sex.
« * * •
‘‘Alex. M.” to The Bulletin :
Discoursing of the recent electrical happenings in
Victoria, N.S.W. Government Astronomer Russell appears,
as reported, to have blundered egregiously in confusing
globular lightning with St. Elmo’s Fire ; and in asserting
that the latter phenomenon “is hardly witnessed once in
10 lifetimes.” St. Elmo’s Fire— nautici, the “ corposant ”
(corposdnto)— is explained by electricians as due to a
continuous but gentle discharge of atmospheric elec-
tricity on to the extremity of a conducting vehicle.
There is certainly nothing violent about the manifesta-
tion ; whereas the "fire-ball” is a very destructive form
of true lightning, occurring only during severe actual
electric disturbance. In 1862, during a memorable
thunderstorm in the North of Ireland, I was one of many
who saw a fiery sphere, apparently about 2ft. in diameter,
travel horizontally near the ground for about 300yds.
before it “ exploded,” or, at all events, disappeared with
a loud detonation. The corposant I have seen twice ;
once in ’69, off the coast of Antigua (West Indies), and
again in ’B3, in the Straits of Sunda, not long before the
terrific Krakatoa convulsion.
The names in
this story aren’t
correct, but all the
rest of the yarn is.
Smith and Jones
were fast friends,
and one night
Smith returned to
his home when he
wasn’t expected
and found Jones
occupying his share
of the marital four-
poster. Next day
the dishonored hus-
band instructed his
solicitor to com-
mence divorce pro-
ceedings and the
case was set down
for trial in due
course. Then the
man of law received
an intimation from
the injured one
that he intended
to overlook the
matter, and to
withdraw the case.
When he called,
later, on the law-
yer to settle his
costs, the latter
said, casually—
“As you are
settling the mat-
ter I suppose
you’re getting
something in the
way of satisfac-
tion from the
co - respondent.’
“Certainly,” said
Smith, “he sent
me a written apo-
logy.”
The notable divorce-case so long pending
in Adelaide, has been put through at last in a
curiously confidential manner. First there was a
motion to take off the record the name of the co-
respondent and proceed without one. Then the
case came into Court undefended. Petitioners
evidence consisted of a letter from his wife, saying
that she had not gone wrong “with the gentle-
man you have dragged into it,” but that she had
gone wrong. Also, he admitted to his Honor
that she had mentioned a name to him. “ Alle-
gations reported proved.” But what a chance for
a strong Judge to insist that the thing should be
dealt with straightforwardly, and that while he
sat on That Bench rich and poor were alike, and
no one should tamper with the Majesty of Law !
• * * *
S. Australia’s pending murder trial is
characteristically “respectable.” Husband and
wife couldn’t “hit it”; so, in a series of quite
loving letters on the subject, they agreed to live
apart. They got as far as the division of the fur-
niture, when the hot word led to the taunt, and
a too-convenient gun did the rest. The most
pathetic part of what altogether is an inexpres-
sibly sad affair—the quarrel was all over a photo,
of one of the children. Neither would part with
it to the other. And thus, by a malignant freak
of fortune, what might so easily have been the
instrument of reconciliation —what any self-
respecting novelist would certainly have used for
the purpose—turned, instead, one to the grave
and the other to the cell.
This from Mackay (Q.) Chronicle ;
The cook on one of our coasting boats sent for a ss.
ticket in “ Tattersall’s ” sweep on Caulfield Cup. To the
stewardess he said, “ I’ll give you half of whatever I win.”
On the arrival of the vessel at Townsville the other day a
wire was waiting for the cook, and its contents advised
him that he had drawn first prize—about £6750 net. He
immediately sought the stewardess and advised her of
his luck, at the same time saying, “ I have to give you
£3376. What do you say to taking me and the lot?”
The offer w 7 as accepted, and on the arrival of the vessel
in Brisbane the pair are to be married.
THE OLD SLIP- RAILS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rrrHEN the mopoke sounds the knock-off for the
KV day,
And I take the twilight track beneath the trees,
Though I’m tired enough to stagger all the way,
And there seems to be no stiffening in the knees,
I am calmly, soundly happy with a joy that never
fails,
’Cos Eliza comes to meet me at the old slip-rails!
It was spring-time when I brought her to the hut,
On the strength of fifty acres under wheat;
And the rails were then a prime pair, newly-cut,
Flinging forth the scent of blue-gum sweet,
And a jackass laughed above us when I tore aside
her veils
And kissed, and bade her welcome o’er the flung-
down rails.
v.
There’s a house-full now of youngsters, large and
small,
And I toil from early dawn till late at night;
There are evenings when the lonely curlew's call
Seems saying to my heart, “ Give up the fight.
But the great heart of Eliza is a thing that never
fails,
And I leave my woes behind me at the old slip-
rails.
When the deeper shadows round me later fall,
And I’ve paid the last instalment up to life,
When to me there sounds the final mopohe call—
A signal for my soul to cease its strife—
Then I’ll count it worth the struggle if, in one of
Heaven’s dales,
I stoop to hiss Eliza o’er a set of blue-gum rails.
QUANDONG.


Very eminent politician, Circular Quay,
Sydney. Cabby asks where he is to drive him.
A bystander : “ Drive him to the (blanky) tip.”
Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address.—
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-street
or King street, Sydney.*
SILVER
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
BILE BEANS
ADVT
ADVT
“F.H.” returns to the charge, re “slinks.”
“ Theta ” (B. 15/11/’O2) makes rather amusing reading.
The fact that he was “ sitting within a stone’s-throw ” of
the railway station he mentions doesn’t make it any more
probable that from said station was despatched in one
day half of Melbourne’s veal-supply for one week-, and,
in short. I’m ready to bet “ Theta” a fiver, either that no
forwarding-agent in Victoria ever in one day sent 700
“ slinks ” (i.e., calves whose dead weight with head and
feet was only 401b5.), or that no such consignment was
ever sent from any Victorian station. Money talks !
As for “ the big well-fed western district cows,” I did
not deny that a new-born “slink’’could weigh 401bs. ;
but what I contend is, that, as the Meat Act prohibits
the sale of any calf whose weight (without head, feet or
offal) is under) 401b5., the alleged “slinks” must have
weighed, alive, between 60 and 701bs.—about the weight
of a three or four weeks-old calf. I agree with “ Theta,”
that the slink-business is loathsome and disreputable
(“Theta’s” dairyman-friend being evidently a good
representative thereof), and nothing would give me more
pleasure than to see the killer, the seller and the buyer of
any calf under four weeks old, get six months “ hard
very hard.
* • • *
“Via ” to The Bulletin :
“Galvo ” (8., 15/11/’O2) makes light of the statement
in B. of 11/10/’O2 that the Brisbane ’bus-driver was
gambling with death when he tried to push aside a
“live” wire with his bare hand. (The par, as written
had nothing about his foot being on the brake—that was
an editorial addition). As a matter of fact, I saw the
occurrence, and it was a wet day, and man, ’bus and
ground were wet. Wonder how “ Galvo ” would like to
try it on under those conditions? If so, I hope he will
make over his insurance policy to me. As regards shocks,
it is considered impossible to positively say what will kill
a human. In New York they electrocute with a current
equal to 1300 volts, and in a recent case they had to give
three shocks of 40sec. duration before the deed was done.
Have myself received a shock from a 425-cell Meidenger
battery on short circuit, the sensations being first, that
of a fearful blow in the stomach, then sweating and
violent vomiting Years ago an American electrician fell
between two contact-points in a power-house, and a
current of 650 volts traversed his body for at least
s'uin. before he was rescued ; yet he is alive to-day but
bald as an egg, and it is alleged that even now his body
will deflect a galvanometer if placed on his bare skin.
Also, Campbell, the Q. railway-swindler, was “operated”
upon by a Govt, medico for two hours every night for a
week to see if he was really paralysed, and Campbell
stood it without a tremor. What would kill him ? (If
anybody wants to know what Campbell stood let him get a
small portable battery, either frictional or acid, put a wet
sponge in one handle and hold it, put the other handle
m a basin of water, drop a silver coin therein, and with
the other hand dip into the water and recover the coin
without grimacing or jumping.) Campbell would be an
ideal line-repairer for “ Galvo.” Most men I know prefer
a voltometer, it’s cheaper than a doctor’s bill and handier
than a coffin.
A FAIR EXCHANGE.
“ Say, mate, what about swappin' pants?"
Children placed out by the State in the
various provinces have been notably freakish—
witness the “stone-throwing ” mysteries now and
then reported. The latest yarn is of a “ placed -
out ” girl who was at service in a sparsely-
populated district, and, when the master of the
house was absent, terrified his wife with an
“attempted burglary ”of the premises. Muddy
foot-marks were found on the verandah, window-
bolts had been forced open, and in the garden
were marks as of a heavy man rushing along.
Night after night such little things happened,
until the mistress sent for a local black tracker,
who failed to find the midnight prowler. Finally,
the sergeant of police took a hand, and immediately
suspected the girl. The mistress scouted the idea,
but a simple trap set by the sergeant soon settled
the point. The young lady, just to liven up
things, had borrowed a pair of the master's boots
to stump round the house in, and had duly
worked in all the other little burglarial circum-
stances. _ Lucky that her desire for excitement
took this form. The usual hysterical female
directs her mendacities to more dangerous ends. “
* * * *
Victorian State Children’s Department has
just acquired a new ward in the person of a child
of four, who was lately discovered asleep on the
pavemen tof a Richmond thoroughfare. Asked as
to the why and the wherefore of this unusual pro-
ceeding, the infant explained that she was out
walking with “Auntie,” when the latter com-
manded her to lie down and go to sleep, which
she promptly did. Then Auntie faded away.
The damsel gives her name as Eileen James, but
as nobody knows any James who has lost a small
girl, and as no one has claimed her, it seems to be
another exposition of the tired feeling that
characterises the great tribe of Bill-Jim, alias
James.
The result of the action against the
N.S.W. Govt, by the returned swaddies claiming
colonial as well as Imperial pay, is a big surprise
to the soldiers themselves. Most of them never
for a moment dreamed of a win. Moss and Cohen
would not lend the ’tingenters a cent on their
chances of winning, and told intending borrowers
who offered to mortgage £2O and £3O chances for a
fiver, that they hadn’t a ghost of a show. But the
men have now won in two courts; the decision
affects the second contingent, and possibly some
of the “A” Battery men and a portion of that
huge joke,_ the Citizens’ Bushmen. The win was
on a ‘‘point” (Mr. Justice Owen remarked that
the claim would be utterly scouted anywhere out-
side a court of law) which arose from the lax
method in which the papers in connection with
the enrolment of the troops were drawn up.
For that, some gilded military officers are en-
tirely responsible. N.S.W. can hug the consola-
tion that she has probably paid the biggest prices
for soldiers since the days of the Roman Pre-
torian guard.
* * * *
It is the baldest nonsense the cohen-
tingenters (or most of them) trying to get work on
the patriotic racket. Many of their number had
never done a day’s work in their lives before they
enlisted ; and most of the rest went because “five
bob a day ” and their keep was a very much better
wage than they had been getting. If “ their coun-
try ” had needed them at one shilling a day, ninety
out of a hundred of them would have stayed at
home and left their country in the lurch. Now
that they are back and stone-broke they cry for
preference on the strength of their patriotism and
self-denial. Naturally an employer prefers a
steady man who won’t go roving at the first chance.
Employers are not to be blamed if they have given
to other men the jobs which the cohentingenters
left to earn better pay.
* • * *
A distinctly unusual charge is levelled
against a Perth (W.A.) dentist. He reported to
the police that a young woman had died on his
premises while having a tooth drawn. The police,
however, have a theory that she died as the result
of an illegal operation, and that the tooth was
drawn after death by way of providing corrobora-
tion. At all events they have arrested the tooth-
smith.
m m m *
“ Petty ” thieving has become so common
lately that the big Sydney retailers are taking
drastic steps to suppress the customer who, after
turning out half the shop and buying a few hair-
pins, departs with a seven-and-sixpenny trifle as
a keepsake. A well-to-do-looking person, who
proved to be wife of a professional man, was
lately caught with some 15s. worth of things in
her parasol. She was proceeded against and fined
£5. Some of the big places have been victimised
to an incredible extent, mainly when the cus-
tomer and an assistant are in collusion.
* ■ • *
Apropos the recent case in which an
English peeress exhibited herself in her corona-
tion finery, on her own lawn, to the country
people, at 3d. a head, for the benefit of the local
hospital. In North Queensland, 15 or 20 years
ago, a certain young English lordling, finding
himself stranded in one of the coastal towns,
had a sort of horse-box arrangement made with a
small window and a spring blind. Over the
window, in large letters, was :
THIS IS A LORD.
3d. a look.
PULL THE STRING AND THE SHOW BEGINS.
A slot in the box received the coin, and the
blind ran up and exhibited the youth in evening
dress. He would then indulge in a little chaff
with the crowd, give a short account of his for-
bears and describe the family place. Then he
would ring down on that lot, wait for the tent
to fill up again, and repeat the performance.
What he made isn’t known, but it was usually
enough to take him to bed in his boots.
This resourceful chappie is now a respected repre-
sentative of England’s aristocracy—married to the
daughter of a hundred earls —but the wild oats he
sowed in N.Q. have not yet been all harvested.
* * * *
A strange, crazy kind of horror, which
looks as if it might have had its origin in the
penny dreadful variety of literature, is reported
from Melbourne. It began with a casual acquaint-
ance between a school-boy and a skinny young
man of about 19, who said he was a “junior
detective.” They met frequently, and the skinny
young man told huge, boundless tales about how
he traced the footprints of the assassin, and ran
down the pirate, the bushranger and the bunyip.
Finally, he offered the dazzled boy 4s. anight with
all the thrill thrown in, and the boy paid his own
fare to a lonely place, where he understood he
was to watch desperate criminals through a key-
hole and bring them to justice. But all
that happened was that he was shut up
in a lonesome house for some hours without his
clothes, and then received an appalling flogging
from the alleged detective on general principles.
Then he was shut up again, and later on he
received another flogging on the same prin-
ciples. He was also compelled to give a written
receipt for the flogging—the document acknow-
ledged that the undersigned had received 320 cuts
on various parts of the body ; also he was ordered
to deliver a parcel of eggs at a certain address,
and received 2d. and two postage stamps to pay
his fare part of the way home, being ordered to
walk the rest of the distance. The miserable youth
is in a shocking state as the result of his night’s
detecting. When the police raided the scene of
the episode they found the alleged detective,
also the receipt for the flogging, and other corro-
boration. There is an air of gruesome and
crazy economy about the whole business. The
boy paid his own fare to the place where he was
to be whacked. The assailant hadn’t a cane
ready, but went out and cut branches for the
purpose ; and he used his victim as a cheap egg-
deliverer when the affair was over. The fact that
accused is described as “a young man of good
character ” lends further support to the theory
that he was a victim of penny dreadfuls.
The first trouble that arose in Worthing
ton’s Christchurch (M.L.) career was
when three of his “students” ob-
served him leaving his front gate
about midnight. Determined
to pursue the truth, they
foxed their brilliant
teacher till he entered
the home of a lady. A
light shone in the bal-
cony-room window, and,
still intent on the pursuit
of truth, the most agile of
the party shinned up the
verandah - post. Presently
he returned with a lot of
interesting information about
black silk stockings, choice
embroidery, and other things.
His vivid description so de-
moralised the party that it
abandoned the pursuit of
truth right there, and
when it arrived home
in the morning it was
wearingcorks in its hair.
Ructions ensued; meet-
ings were held; the
papers teemed with let-
ters condemning peep-
ing Toms, prying
Josephs, etc., till one
last great meeting
burst forth with a
wildly original reso-
lution, to the effect
that it deplored the
fact that Mr. Worth-
ington’s indiscretion
should have placed
the three young men in such an unenviable posi-
tion. Then the public removed its pipe to the
other side of its face and was satisfied.
• » * •
“Index” writes concerning a recent
Bulletin paragraph:—
As an ex-teacher, I know something of N.S.W. Educa-
tion Department. Several female teachers assure me
that they are worse off, in many respects, than laundry
slaves. Not only have they to sweat in a musty class-
room all day, and prepare or correct exercises afterwards,
but their Saturdays (and often Sundays) are demanded to
give attention to this or that school “ display.” And
what does it all mean ? Simply the glorification and
aggrandisement of Minister Perry and Chief Inspector
Bridges—especially Bridges. Mr. Perry is the gentle
Minister who, during the war fever, threatened to make
it warm for any teacher running counter to his jingo
ideas in the matter of cheering the flag ; hence the
Education Dept, employees tamely submitted to un-
warrantable official levies on their slender salaries for
this or the other fund. I personally know many teachers
who could ill afford the sums wrenched out of them
during the war craze. All these amounts are
drained from what is admitted to be the hardest-
worked and poorest-paid branch of the public service.
The female teachers complain bitterly of the exactions
made on their health and pockets. Hunting up cheap
drapers to supply material for fancy hats and sashes, and
many hours’ work as seamstresses, is not calculated to
improve either the temper of the staff or the standard of
the schools. As to the children, a good number like
the displays, but many don’t. To the Commonwealth
display, at least one death, by sunstroke, is traceable.
To give healthy open-air exercise as part of the curriculum
is a good and desirable thing, but to spasmodically drag
the poor youngsters here and there, ostensibly for some
fund or alleged patriotic purpose, is unnecessary and
cruel, more particularly if one notices the disgraceful lack
of shelter and refreshment accorded to the children who
actually provide the show.
MUTUAL CONFIDENCES.
THE INJURED ONE: “It’s a terrible thing when
a wife doubts her husband’s word.”
HIS WIFE : “It is! Especially when her husband
knows his wife knows he’s lying.”
“ Religious announcements ” as they
appear in the Far West: —
rj ONGREGATIONAL.—BOULDE R- RD. CHURCH.
Asbury Caldwell, Pastor.
7.15 p.m., Hipe’s Orchestra, led by Mr. G.
McClelland.
7.30 p.m., Preliminary Remarks: “Some Objec-
tions to the Police Amendment Act ” ; Gospel Theme,
Christ’s Message to the Obscure.” Good music.
Smokers’ Pavilion Open All Day.
* » * *
At the outset of the Fox v. Trenwith libel
case barrister Duffy put the law of libel in a truly
beautiful light. He reduced the issue to a solemn
financial question— “Was Trenwith to be seriously
embarrassed for the greater part of his life by
winning the action, or be crushed by losing it ? ”
The audacious candour of Duffy might have moved
the foreman of the jury to ask him what he
thought of the law as a profession, but no jury-
man 'oie to the occasion.
A BREATH OF AIR.
HE (an adventurous stranger seating himself
beside her uninvited): “How balmy the
day is!”
SHE : “Are you sure it’s only the day?”
Premier John See, speaking at the opening
of an Inebriates’ retreat founded by one of the
N.S.W. churches said that “he thought the
Inebriates Act one of the best passed by his
Government.” Curious, then, that he should allow
it to remain practically a dead Act for so long !
* •* • *
One result of the Mt. Lyell (Tas.) hospital
row is that the miner contributors, disagreeing
with the view of the committee that a doctor
should not sit on a nurse’s bed, are inclined to
stop their payments to the institution ; but Mt.
Lyell Co. insists on deducting them from the
miners’ wages—an injustice which would be
illegal if there were a Truck Act in the Flyspeck.
* * * *
The Adelaide crematorium will soon be
ready for Service, and arrangements are in pro-
gress for a proper inauguration of the process of
incineration. None of the members of tne Crema-
tion Society, however, show any desire to attain
to the distinction which will attach to the first
corpse furnaced. One of the most enthusiastic
advocates of the system was Alderman Tomkin-
son, M.L.C., who pushed the Enabling Bill
through Parliament, but, though he lived until
84, he died ere he had induced Government to
grant a site for the oven.
» • * •
Breakfast at a Bourke (N.S.W.) boarding-
house. Proprietress severely eying a teamster
buttering bread, and, per-
haps, from sheer force of
habit, trying to pile the
maximum of loading on to
a given area. Landlady,
at last, her voice choked
with indignation, “Mr.
Mullins, that butter costs
2s. 6d. a pound ! ” Mr. M.
(calmly): “Well, marm,
it’s worth every penny of
it ” and he topped-off
with another stratum.
Two cemeteries (the C. of England and
R.C.) at Lower Mittagong are allowed to exist on
the Sydney water supply catchment area ! What
does Dill-Macky say to this ? It is surely grossly
unfair to the large number of “ other ” religions
that there is no dead Wesleyan or Presbyterian
flavor in the water.
* * * *
Bishop Harmer, of Adelaide, is in luck.
The cathedral towers, for the construction of
which millionaire Barr Smith gave £lO,OOO, are
almost completed, and now Mrs. Simms
(widow oh the late Brewer Simms’son) has given
several thousands to build a Lady Chapel (a
ladies’ chapel, the Register calls it) and other
accessories. For a wonder, the Anglicans, and
not the Catholics, have secured the most con-
spicuous site in Adelaide, and the new cathedral
shows up splendidly.
THE UPPER YARRA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Summer is here on flashing wings,
The joyous day is musical;
And the exultant river sings
A clear, unending madrigal.
The river is as yet so young,
And has no thought beyond to-day;
What though its waters be far flung,
Its end all sorrowful and grey ?
It weaves rose fancies maidenwise, •
The sun’s warm tenderness a part,
And dreams not that the city lies
So close, with a licentious heart.
MELB.
THOROLD DALRYMPLE.
OBLIVION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When back to our mother’s bosom
Dust unto dust we go,
But little the world shall fret us,
However the winds may blow.
All one to the silent sleepers
Is babble of glory or shame ;
And Shakespeare’s rest is no sweeter
For all his trumpeted fame.
M.J.T.
UNTRUE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I kissed her red, passionate lips,
Deep, deep, I drew
Red love from her sweet nectary. . .
She was untrue !
Yea ! the love on her lips was a lie,
And I—l knew !
I kissed her more wildly to think
Her love untrue.
GLAN.


ADVT
Dress faßßies
Are Stocked by the
, Leading Drapers. **
; RA demaVkTHE varnished board
SET OF TEETH ONE GUINEA
Beautiful and Lifelike in Appearance and Guaranteed Perfect Fit. Absolutely Painless
Extractions and Stopping's Guaranteed.
Special Attention Given to Regulating Children’s Teeth.
Mr. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R. 9.5., Surgeon Dentist, 43 Oxford-st. Sydney
Sold by all Drapers and Hosiers.
KNEIPP LINEN
UNDERWEAR
Porous. Cool. Clean. Unshrink abl<
Recommended by Medical Profession.
Prevents Prickly Heat, Eczema,
Allows the Body to Breathe.
Part of the result of “ the triumph of the
New Testament ” in the B’African war (cable to
London papers) :
Shocking revelations have been made concerning the
trade in women and girls who are recruited from Great
Britain and the Continent by agents representing a syndi-
cate which practically controls this infamous trade. The
profits are enormous, and the victims are veritable slaves,
who are enticed by advertisements offering them good
positions in S’Africa. On landing they discover the
deception. Some escape, but the majority are ruined.
Another railway job to the credit of the
Philpocracy. A few weeks ago Railway-Commis-
sioner Thallon was asked to report on the high-
level and low-level proposed extensions from
Gladstone to Rockhampton. Thallon utterly
damned the low-level scheme, on account of its
liability to flood (just as previous Commissioners
had done), but Minister Leahy, who openly con-
fesses to an ambition to represent Rockhampton
—the town which favors the low-level scheme as
terminating close to Rockhampton—pushed the
matter through. The high-level line might have
helped Gladstone along. Fancy paying a Com-
missioner £2OOO per annum to give advice, and
then refusing to take his counsel every time !
The Lacle Remedies —What they are. How
to use them, and speedily obtain a beautiful
plumpness of face, neck and arms, and a perfect
bust. Write for H. Westall Guest’s new pamph-
let, post free, 229 Bourke-st., Melb.*
DON’T
DRINK ANY OTHER THAN
CHBRCES HEIDSIECK
CHnmpflGns
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, November 25, 1902.
My Dear Arini—
For three days the sumptuous and haughty vice-
regal court of Sydney has been doing the magni-
ficent at Newcastle. The Cranbroolc potentate*
wife and daughter, rose at 5.30 a.m. on Friday to
get a special train to the coaly place. With them
were their suite, the Sees, a bunch of Horderns,
five gentlemen in holy orders and a couple of
politicians. The billy was boiled on the train,
and the corned-beef sandwiches eaten, and im-
mediately upon arrival, at 11 o’clock, they drove
straight to a dedicatory service at the new
cathedral. Afterwards, levees, fetes and sports.
“A wind to puff our idol-fires.” His Majesty
the King has been pleased to confer the title of
Lord Mayor upon the Mayors of Sydney and
Melbourne, and, as the D.t. has it, “ the lady
Mayoress (Mrs. Hughes) bore the good news to
her husband whilst he was on his sick bed.” Rush-
ing to the telephone to congratulate Alderman
Thomas Hughes, quite a number of people asked
for “ M’lud ! ” The Hughes are a popular
pair, and decorative withal, and their syntax
hasn’t to lean up against things ; so, if they are
not offended at the King’s little joke, no one else
should be.
“We are threatened with a revival of tight
lacing,” says a woman’s paper, but amongst a
certain class tight-lacing has never really died
out. An English trade sheet says that in some
business houses women employees are compelled
to have very small waists, and in some cases a
locked corset, which has to be worn day and
night, is made use of, the manageress keeping the
key ! A girl at North Manchester died of this
kind of corset; the impression of her ribs was
imbedded upon her liver. Aristocracy only may
afford the waist of 26in. and upwards. The shop-
girl is not genteel if hers is over 21 in. In the days
of our grandmothers 19in. was the apex of ele-
gance. At some ultra-fashionable schools the
noble damsels used to be hung up in a “neck-swing”
whilst the governesses or maids laced them. In
such a position they could offer the least muscular
resistance to haulage power. Fancy studying for
a matric. with your ribs pressing into your liver
and other places—but they had no women matrics.
then.
A fashionable Darling Point woman, who has,
all along, in the face of water famine, persistently
hosed her garden, had her house water cut off last
week just as her servants were preparing for a
dinner-party she was to give. There was con-
siderable anger and borrowing of water from the
nearest mansions. The Water and Sewerage
Board has doubled its staff of inspectors, and a
number of persons have had their tea and coffee
water cut off for having used the precious stuff on
roses and lawns. Extraordinary efforts are made
by certain garden lovers to evade the no-watering
ordinance, even to the getting up just after mid-
night to give the plants a spray.
N.S.W. National Council of Women does not
profess to compete with places of amusement, but
there is no reason why it should not enter the
list. The founders must have had some gleam of
its possibilities in this direction, for amongst the
rules is one forbidding the presence of man. At
the half-yearly meeting last week, presided over
by the ever-smiling Governoress, husbands were
seen humbly waiting on the mat outside the
Royal Society’s Hall until the flow of feminine
eloquence had subsided. Plump Miss Windeyer
took nearly an hour to tell what a charming billet
for a woman that of librarian is, but omitted all
hints as to how it might be obtained. Mrs. C.M.
Parkes discoursed of the joy of having a “dinner-
cart ” call with the family dinner, thereby giving
wives more time to devote to their husbands “and
to keep them from other companions.” Oh, the
watching these husbands want! Then a lady,
with her eye steadily on the vice-regal presence,
mentioned that she kept several “maids” but
sometimes they all left at once, and that her boys
liked stewed fruit for breakfast. The audience
refused to be thrilled by these items and got up
to leave. Lady Rawson and the placid daughter
came down from the pedestal, shook any hand
that looked as if it ought to be shaken, and passed
unattended “ out into the night.”
A good speaker, who is spending herself on
small, but perhaps, fit audiences, is Miss Susannah
Wells, 8.A., a London Quakeress at present
visiting one of the several cocoa-Quaker families
of Sydney. The Friend lecturess discourses of
George Fox, of the “inward light,” and kindred
themes, but the impression gained from her
addresses is that being a Quaker is like being
a Theosophist—one can be anything else with it.
Anti-war seems now the only definite tenet of the
creed. Miss Wells touched smilingly on the old
belief in the necessity for distinctive dress, but
the thought occurred that the lady herself would
be a much more picturesque platform figure in a
dove-grey cloak and soft round bonnet than in the
E resent ugly uniform of non-related skirt and
louse and uncompromising hat of straw.
Constance Brandon Usher, who left Sydney
with the perilous reputation of an infant musical
phenomenon, has returned after four years, a tall,
nearly-grown-up girl, with her phenomenal-
ism trained and crystallised and attested by a
trunk-full of academic musical parchment. On
Saturday night Sydneysiders went to the Cen-
tenary Hall to her “first appearance,” carrying
large quantities of expensive flowers, and quite
ready to endorse all that Herr von Heiligestadt,
of Leipzig, and other harmonious Herren had put
on sheepskin about her. Miss Usher took a Con-
servatorium prize, which for 38 years has not gone
to a British student. The presentation of an im-
posing basket of blooms was made by Mr.
Lawrence Campbell, on behalf of the ladies’ com-
mittee of welcome. Miss Usher’s first item, a
formidable concerto by Bach, roused the wonder
and admiration of her listeners for her executive
ability, then, with a Lisztian “Love Dream,” she
reached their hearts, and stopped there to the end
of the programme—and after.
Constance B.U. was dressed in pink with pink
infant roses in her very fair head. She has a
fetching platform manner full of little bobs and
smiles and a gleeful way of looking at her friends
with an air of saying: “Just wait till this is over
and we’ll have a doll’s tea-party.” Her memory
must be exceptional. She gave all her pieces
without a note of music.
A correspondent tells me that the fashion of
wearing a big ribbon or velvet bow, wide as a sash
ribbon, on the top of the head is very general in
America. I had already seen some photos, in
which the decoration was worn, and had thought
it a cap, so obvious was the bow.
Crimson Rambler rose is in splendid form just
now, rambling up 15ft. or so over balconies and
garden houses, a swarm of the small red blossoms
on every stalk. Flannel flowers and Xmas bells
are in the street wild-flower baskets. In a flower
shop I saw, last week, a quaint and charming
noose—you couldn’t call it a wreath—fashioned of
white water-lilies, their long, red-brown stalks
brought round to the flower-heads and tied with a
pink ribbon. Looked the kind of loop with which
to catch a nymph.
In a recent Sydney divorce case an application
was made that it be placed in the first batch to be
dealt with. It was “urgent,” and wanted by
wire, as the petitioner had received an offer of
marriage and desired to be free to accept it.
The committee of Hamilton (Vic.) hospital has
stopped Sunday visiting by children of the
patients. The youngsters used to take flowers,
and sometimes eggs and fruit, to the sick, then
wander all over the wards, staring and comment-
ing upon the cases. “The gentleman with the
red nose is here still, Muriel; see if you have a
drink-traot left!” “That bogie lady, with the
spotted shawl over her head, looks a lot worse,
doesn’t she, Ivy ? ” This was most exhilarating
hearing for patients who, perhaps, hadn’t got any
of the eggs or fruit.
Here is a delicious matrimonial advt. from the
Australian Star
“Pretty and Respectable French Lady (SO), speaks
and writes English, desires correspond gentleman,
bachelor (75 or more), view matrimony. Bound by vow,
she can only marry an old man (in preference a' sickly
one), that she may take care of him. Gentleman must
give references from Governor, or influential Members of
Parliament, and French Consul, attesting honourability
of self and family. Real name, age, occupation, address,
income, and photo, required. ‘Mademoiselle,’ G.P.0.,
Noumea, New Caledonia.”
“If I were King ”at the Royal: How Athol-
wood’s King Louis XI. recalls one’s childhood’s
reading of “ Quentin Durward ! ” For weeks after
reading that novel I wore images in my hat—tin
soldiers they had to be, as I couldn’t get hold of
Saints Louis, Denis or any of the other 12 apostles.
Audience, or some of it, made a great effort on the
opening night to put names to the images in
Atholwood’s hat. A man who had strong glasses
(no innuendo intended) protested that the decora-
tion was the Last Supper.
Cuyler Hastings’admirers—their eyes half out
of their sockets with fear lest Sherlock Holmes
should shadow the 15th century French poet—
awaited his Villon, and got the idealised hand-
some vagrom man, the man who “laughs while he
loves,” and writes verses as he rests in a warm
ditch, fights, wins the love of all the women, and
is constitutionally unable to put anything into the
Savings Bank. But no spook of the detective who
died the night before haunted Hastings’ Villon.
Miss Lane, somewhat nervous under the stress
of her doublet and hose, is a revelation of a
beautiful figure, not a bit too opulent. Miss
Chevalier, as Katherine, wears some of the most
beautiful clothes Sydney has ever seen. In the
first act she has a brown dress and a cloak lined
with mandarin yellow; in the second, when she
comes to the rose garden to meet her High Con-
stable lover, she wears a lettuce green and silver
brocade, in the old tapestry pattern, with chiffon
sleeves reaching to the hem of the Juliet-like
robe, which is worn over an underskirt of white
broche. Her last is a heavy white liberty satin,
embroidered with large butterflies.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent
“The discussion in Melbourne Herald as to
whether or not Mrs. Sangal should be hanged has
drawn some queer letters from the gentle sex.
Here is one:
Mrs. L. writes.—l and many a one are in favor of the
penalty of the law being carried out. Why should a
woman like her be spared ? If it wasn’t for her, those
poor children would have their father now. No, respec-
table life didn’t suit a fiend like her. If the law does not
hang that woman—well, they ought not to hang anyone.
Hang the fiend, by all means, or she will be killing some
other poor fellow. Hang her to death, the fiend she is.
This writer knows a woman who wants to have a
hand in pulling Mrs. Sangal to pieces because of
her brutality to her husband, and who quietly
read the morning paper in one room while her
husband coughed himself to death in the next.
There was not a soul handy but her to moisten
his phthisis-deadened lips. She had had a paltry
quarrel with him a few hours before.
‘‘ At the Presbyterian ‘ Festival ’ only sacred
songs were listed, and the audience woke up with
a start when Tenor Wood suddenly let loose as an
encore ‘ Oh stay with me, my darling, stay ! ’ The
black-coats on the platform were worth watching
during the interlude. They neither smirked in a
treacly way, nor self-consciously ‘perused the
matting ’ as Methodists might have done, but one
and all threw their heads far back and glared
sternly at the roof like hens drinking. Maybe
the canny ancients assumed this reverential atti-
tude as a sort of blind to bluff the audience into
interpreting the ‘ darling ’ referred to in the song
as a Scriptural metaphor, as the Kirk has hitherto
done with regard to the ‘ Song of Solomon.’ Prof.
Harper, in his new book about the ‘Song,’owns
up that it’s a secular love story, while he lets it
down gently as depicting ‘ human affection in the
purest, highest form ’ possible at that period.
‘ ‘ Mrs. Hickman Molesworth—wife of the rosy-
cheeked Judge—appealed to lovely woman through
the columns of the Argus, just before the Cup,
on the subject of economy in clothes, in con-
sideration of the dreadful drought conditions,
which made the sporting of fine feathers and
showy plumage among the fashionable a callous
proceeding. The letter read very well, but it
failed of its humanitarian object. Lovely woman
turned out in the loftiest style that she could get
draper’s credit for, and—saw herself eclipsed in
magnificence of lace-layers and chiffon-tiers by
that self-same philanthropist. Mrs. Molesworth
had advised her sisters to turn out to the Cup in
cotton frocks, and carried wealth of silk and
Solomon’s glory herself!
“The latest version of the female figure admits
a waist. You have to be right through the stages
of no corset, straight corset, pouched blouses, and
roomy, etc., etc., before the ‘ Gibson ’ shoulders
and the waist can be attempted. The idea is to
dig out the meridian, from elevations about the
hips and the drop-chest. One girl at some
fashionable sports, the other day—scored vvith
this —the latest vagary. Her waist gave the idea
of a hollow between the hip-hills. The jelly-bag
sleeves fell into line with the expansive parts and
threw the hollow more than ever into relief.
“Dolores’ dressing! How it pains her ad-
mirers ! At the Wednesday afternoon recital she
came out in a garish evening gown of gold brocade
of the brightest design, which made a sartorial
suicide with deadly doses of pink and blue shades.
A Melbourne globe-trotter from the Big Smoke
writes alarmingly of Australian artists there :
“ There’s the case of Miss , who landed here full of
hope, vocal strength, and letters to the big guns of the
great world. I hear, on good authority, that ‘ paper ’
filled all her little series of concerts. More recently I
was spending some time in a village in North Wales,
where I saw in a band of strolling singers Miss Y ,
who came Londonwards to make her fortune, and now
lives, like several others from the wallaby haunts, by
sending round the hat. Yet she has a good appearance
and a lovely voice, far too lovely to be reckoned among
the nomadic open-air sands singers. When will it be
brought home to the Australian artist that a creditable
platform name and a small income in Australia are pre-
ferable to oblivion and starvation in the Big Smoke—the
most merciless vampire in creation ?
“A Melbourne woman last week invented a
novel mode of committing suicide. She dressed
herself in her best, took all her jewellery in a
handbag, walked out on to the footpath, and
waited quietly for a lorry to come along. Just as
the vehicle was passing she jumped underneath
the wheels. The driver says he felt a jolt, and,
on looking round, saw the woman lying in his
tracks, crushed and bleeding. At the inquest it
turned out that she had been strange in her
manner for some time past. On the morning of
her death she went into the room where her
husband was lying on the bed, and struck him
over the head with a club. Under examination
the husband was asked whether she had ever
struck him before. He turned to the coroner and
remarked, bluntly, ‘We won’t go into that. The
poor old woman is dead and gone.’
“Australians were always yearning to hear
Melba ‘ in the prime of her power and the flower
of her fame.’ The wish was granted. The diva
came, and did her best to please as a singer, while
outside her Art she showed herself open-handed
and tender-hearted. So far as Melba herself
is concerned, Australia has no claim to a
legitimate grievance. But Human Nature is
queer stuff! At present, the crowd raves
about Dolores, lionizes her, as it never did
before, though not for lack of opportunity.
‘Why this sudden enthusiasm?’ scribe asked a
newly-converted Dolores devotee. ‘lt will do
Melba good to see that she hasn’t got all Austra-
lia by the wool,’ was the reply. In the same
spirit, people who have not heard Melba because
they would not, or could not, afford her prices,
now maintain that Dolores is the superior singer,
and downface people who, having conscientiously
sampled both artists, have taken, at least, the first
step towards qualifying themselves to make com-
parisons. The catch-word of these one-eared
critics is ‘Melba is cold, so different from
Dolores. ’ As a matter of fact, neither of these
richly-gifted women is a great emotional artist.
“Lord Dick Nevill is Melba’s social referee and
time-keeper. He heads V.R. or unofficial bevies
at all the shows the jolly Star patronises: At the
Opera-remnants’ rehearsal, the other day, the
Aide, who looks like a long, thin bottle of vinegar
when the official smile is not doing duty, headed
an excitable contingent of Melba’s women friends,
little Miss Stonington Clarke among them. Dur-
ing most of the rehearsal Melba was accompanied
by a gamp, which she drummed on the stage
whenever Slapoffski or his underlings ran amok.
Slap, seemed,to be revelling in real music again
after the foolish pantomimic penny whistlings,
and to feel the pride of batoning to Melba.
“Melba’s visit to the Maternity Home in the
Holy City had its exciting results. Just after the
departure of the diva an inmate gave birth to a
daughter.. The proud mother at once greeted
her offspring as Melba, and the news was wired to
the Illustrious One. She immediately ordered a
wardrobe of long clothes and complete parapher-
nalia for the infant, and probably thanked
Heaven it wasn’t twins.
“ Mrs. Charlie Ryan, at the C. of E. Grammar
School Sports on Friday, welcomed Melba and
Miss Mignonette Clarke. It was a fresh role for
the capsrish diva, patting freckle-faced boys on
the cheeks and pointing out the lolly-stick legs of
the runners. Melba winks pronouncedly ; the
world of fashion grins delightedly, but daren’t
follow suit. Her dress for the sports was a white
silk, with a white chiffon over-dress, splashed with
roses.
“ Mr. Pince-Nez Tyson had the most fluffy box
party of young fledglings at Melba’s Opera Night.
It is a refreshing sight to see the seasoned bachelor
wearing his thoughtful glasses amid a fluttering
brood of debutantes. Among his charges this
night was a clever young heiress whose fortune
springs from a great ‘ run ’ in the woolliest quarter
of the Western District. A dozen drought
seasons wouldn’t affect her income appreciably.
“At the Philharmonic concert, 17th Nov.,
Dolores was the great attraction. Emilie Kef-
ford, a young contralto singer, showed the
makings of a good voice. She should shine in
oratorio, if heredity goes for anything, seeing that
her grandfather is ‘the Messiah of Nunawading,’
a much-talked-of patriarch, prominent in the
Faith-healing line of business.
“The tennis-girl had her innings all last week.
She is, without doubt, the chirpiest, prettiest
sport follower we can boast this side. Her style
is distinctive. She is thin, almost meagre, with a
flattish chest, and the daintiest chiffon-furnishings
to be had. Her complexion is that of the lily, just
healthily and artistically tinted in the proper
places. Her hat is her crowning glory, roses
under the brim, a softening lace edge above, a
guileless tarantula bow of velvet on the retreating
crown. She was repeated to a monotonous
extent during the Tournament. On all sides
the same crisp, clean, pearl-neckleted, dainty, in-
souciant siren.
“ Of the Court champions, none had the dash
and the takingness of Miss Waters who topped a
clean-cut rig out with a Panama, piped and
banded with russet-brown silk—the sort of thing
to win a wandering eye. A French girl ran away
with all the traditions of Gallic taste in her re-
trenched skirt, archaic blouse, and a pilot’s cap.
She was spare of form, but volleyed and served at
top express speed. A weather-beaten South
Australian, whose deeply-tanned skin told of many
a long summer in the Courts, racketted like a man.
“ The Tennysons did the tennis contest on
Friday, the G.G. in a small ‘boxer’ that looked
like a blister covered with court-plaster on his
head. Her Ex. and the three small Tennyson
editions in calf binding looked in at the C. of E.
sports, where she gave out the prizes, a hand-
shake, and a smile. She wore blue—quite a
sprightly blue—and one of her bleak-looking hats
owning sparse plots of strange-hued poppies.
“ Society rallied in force to the final ‘Rippon
Lea’ concert on Tuesday. The most notable frocker
was a large lady, whose expansive chest, well visible
through an open-air yoke, showed the turkey-
egg speckle known as heat-rash. No one cuts
such a extra-pretty figure at concerts nowadays as
Mr. Charles Rose. It is his turn to be taken up,
now that the tenor with the chestnut name finds
that ‘the winds sits in the shoulder of his sail.’
At the Sargood concert Rose gave his languishing
manners full play as he tootled his serenade. But
it is a tactical error for a male singer with a sweet,
well-educated voice to ogle an audience of women
and emphasise tender passages with facial play.
Apollo needs to be —well, certainly Apollo, before
it is wise for him to coquet before the eyes of a
petticoated assemblage. An audience of one is
quite enough to flirt with in song, or in anything
else.
“The wisdom of girls striking out for them-
selves is again shown by a recent wealthy mar-
riage. The average girl has a far better marriage
chance by starting a millinery, massage, or petti-
coat business, and prospering thereat, than by
‘ keeping up appearances ’ at home, and suffering
all the pangs of envy, covetousness, and vanity.
The girls who have gone into business are landing
all the big fish lately.
“ At the ‘ Mikado ’ first night, a bride caused a
sensation in the circle. She was large and florid,
and had encased her ample form in a scaly
sequin gown cut dla Polonaise. From a distance
her upper figure resembled an illuminated globe.
Florence Young, in her Katisha role, goes the
whole length of an advanced and blue-mouldy
Chinese widow’s make-up. She doesn’t even save
her big, white, robust molars from the sacrifice.
They are blackened in the traditional manner, so
that when she extends the dimples into a smile
the frightful peanut-face merely shows a large,
dark chasm where the mouth should be.
“ The biggest masculine figure duriifg the race
season in these parts was the Brandy King who
won big wagers so often. He did more—he ‘ laid-
off,’ with considerable disadvantage to himself in
many instances, so that several fair flutterers are
basking in Cup affluence just now, and the gentle-
man with the full-flavored Hibernian bouquet to his
name was the petted darling of the season.
“ A nice point of honor was discussed heatedly
at a swagger hostelry on Cup eve with the
result that much gore stained the polished oak
floor of the dining-room, and one fine Adonis is
laid up for repairs in Melbourne’s most expensive
private court-plastery.
“ The Westralian bachelor has a high market
value these times. The distant hill is always
green, and the flutterers of this under-manned
State reckon every man from the West a magnate
and a Midas. The Western bachelor is conjured
up as a scion of a noble family, who, having sown
his wild oats and then his wild cats, and reaped
the reward of manly enterprise, now stalks the
land, rich, and looking for a wife. But, alas, often
he isn’t rich, and often he is dodging a wife.
“ The pony cart with its bell chimes is becoming
a pest. The members of the Waxellency’s family
were first on the road with a tinkling pony cart.
Other smart girls followed suit, and now one’s
quiet walk through Toorak, St. Kilda, or Malvern
is broken in upon by frequent bells. It’s a nasty
little nursery jingle, and, after awhile, gets on the
nerves.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


GROWING GIRLS.
A girl, to-day—to morrow, a woman.
The happy health of her womanhood depends upon this vital change from girlhood.
When Nature makes new demands upon her blood supply, you must build up her blood to meet the
strain with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
Her system is unequal to that strain if her back aches—if she is pale or thin—dull-eyed or languid.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People will give her new, rich, red blood, and tide her over the crisis.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills will make her development perfect and regular—they will make her a strong,
happy, graceful, full-breasted woman.
Sydney Girl Cured. —“When in my ’teens I grew very weak. My nerves became quite unstrung, and
sometimes I was scarcely able to walk. I became a victim to St. Vitus’ Dance and had to leave school. Seeing that Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills were a blood-builder and nerve-tonic I tried them. Three boxes completely cured me. I developed
wonderfully after that. Now lam in the best of health.”—That’s the testimony of Miss Viola Dawson, 4 Willoughby St.,
Milson’s Point, N. Sydney.
Sold by retailers and by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney—-2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d. post free.
%
PERSONAL ITEMS.
It is considered probable that one of the
Kenniffs will confess before the fatal day arrives.
Dr. Mitchell, father of book-lover Mitchell
of the present day, was, while holding an official
position under N.S.W. Government, censured for
a point-blank refusal to superintend the flogging
of convicts at Hyde Park barracks
J.P.-ism in N.S.W. was thus reflected on
by one-time Premier Parkes : “ When in office, I
never made myself a J.P. ; when out of office, I
never had a good enough character in the eyes of
the Government to fit me for the position.”
History repeats itself, but it is often a
long time about it. The last Persian ambassador
left Athens 2393 years ago to report to Darius
Hystaspes that war was inevitable. A last week’s
cable tells that his successor has just been
appointed.
Vic. Supreme Court prize (£4O) at the
recent final examination for solicitors went to
William Ah Ket, an Australian-born full blood
Chinese. Ah Ket will be Victoria’s second
Chinese solicitor, the other being F. I. V. Ni Gan,
of Bendigo.
It is a notable coincidence that E. W.
Cole, of Book Arcade fame, the late George
Robertson, and the late Samuel Mullen, leading
Victorian booksellers, allfirst landed in Melbourne
on 12th Nov., 1852, the first mentioned sailing
from Capetown, and the other two from Liverpool.
The Commonwealth makes gubernatorial
history fast —two Governors-General in less than
two years. At the start the G. -G. was an almost
Sacred Personage ; now, he is a comfortable, com-
monplace, inexperienced anybody. By and bye,
when Australia gets sense, he will have as pay
£l5OO a year at most, and possibly a free bunga-
low.
Sec. J. R. Martin, of Sydney Harbor
Trust, resigns office “on account of ill-health.”
Students of “ form ” tip him for a Federal prize
when he gets better. Mr. Martin was Minister
Lyne’s right-hand man when that cute gentleman
was N.S.W. Premier, and perhaps Bill is feeling
the need of a right-hand man now in Federal
politics.
Kirton, one of the honorary Ministers in
Irvine’s crew, once got off this fine figure of
speech when supporting the McShiels-Lean Govt.:
“The Opposition has got the ear of the con-
stituencies and is endeavouring to throw dust in
their eyes.” Kirton (erstwhile a postman in
Ballarat) belongs to the worst type of A.N.A.
platitudinarians.
NOT HIS FAUE
“ If I am a gaol-bird it’s not my fault I can’t fly."
An incident which has caused much talk
is the “pilling” of a certain senator by the
members of a very fashionable and haughty
Victorian club. That senator’s colleague (on the
same side of politics) is a member of the club in
question, and the world has never heard a breath
against the rejected candidate, one of Australia’s
foremost lawyers.
Ex-Premier Peacock’s hobby is photo.-
collecting; his house at Creswick is crammed with
autographed pictures of more or less important
people. The fifteen-shillings-a-dozen portrait that
little “York” gave him figures cheek by jowl
with that of an up-country municipal light who
would be justified in feeling very much annoyed
at the juxtaposition.
With the Pacific cable comes, in a sense,
the realisation of his idea to the veteran Mr.
Audley Coote, who, for three decades almost, has
agitated for some such project. “Cable CoOte”
started on the track of a Pacific line about 1873,
and, though others claim the credit of having
brought the plan to fruition, his, at any rate, is
the merit of its origination.
Hughes, M. H.R., than whom there is not
a better speaker in the whole Federal Parliament,
is just now manoeuvring Sydney Wharf-Laborers
case through N.S.W. Arbitration Court. Mr.
Hughes is in active training for the final exam,
for the Bar, which explains why he has not been
quite so prominent in the Federal Parliament de-
bates last session as was expected.
Sydney's “Lord Mayor,” Tom Hughes, is
just now prostrated with nervous depression. It
is necessary to explain that his lordship fell ill
before the news came that Sydney Mayors are in
future to be temporary Lords, and that his lord-
ship’s illnesss is not, therefore, due to thinking
over some of the probable Lord Mayors and Lady
Mayoresses of the immediate future.
“The Students of Truth” in Melbourne
have disbanded, and the furniture of their rooms
is to be sold for the benefit of Mrs. Worthington.
Worthington’s library is being preserved for him
by a faitliful student; but it is said that the fallen
apostle, who was threatened with eye-trouble
before his trial, is now rapidly losing the sight of
one eye, and is feeling gaol life keenly.
During its 66 years of existence S.A. has
only given the affix of J.P. to two clergyman, and
both were Congregationalists. One was W. R.
Newland (father of ex-Treasurer Newland, the
author of “having the Way”), and the other S.
L. Both lived in out-of-the-way country
towns, ancl they fined “drunks” with so much
discretion that no one ever had nything unkind
to say concerning them.
Despite all the public enthusiasm, Scotch-
byterianism looks askance at the play-acting
Melba. The annual report of the Ladies’ College
submitted to Vie. Presbyterian Assembly con-
tained no reference whatever to the return of the
diva. Also the report was adopted by the
Assembly without a single member drawing
attention to the omission or putting in a word
about the College’s famous pupil.
Frederic Dudley North, C.M.G.’d on
King’s birthday, is a brother-in-law of big John
Forrest. North is a curly-headed, florid-faced
Britisher, who came out to Westralia and joined
the civil service. He was a very ordinary clerk
when he married Forrest’s sister-in-law, but then
Big John took him in hand, and he was pushed
into the position of clerk to the Executive, and
afterwards into that of Under Secretary.
Sydney University mathematical professor,
Gurney, retires on a pension. It can at least be
said to the credit of the Scotch clique who run the
institution that their financial administration is
admirable in its details. The professors are paid
only a part of their salaries: the rest is devoted
to the purchase of annuities. Resignation at a
certain age is compulsory, and the learned man’s
declining days are cheered by a substantial
pension.
Treasurer Butler (S.A.) will be 52 on
Wednesday (Dec. 3). Senator Zeal will be 72 on
the following Friday, on which day John Wats-
ford (born at Parramatta), the oldest Methodist
minister still in active work in the Commonwealth,
will be 82. Also, “Jack” Creswell, sec. of the
S.A. cricketing association, agricultural society,
chamber of commerce, and half-a-score other
things—the most energetic personage in Adelaide
—will be 44, Dec. 8.
J. L. Parsons, M.L.C., brother-in-law of
S.A.’s boss squatter and millionaire J. H. Angas,
has been chief promoter of the iniquitous Cen-
tralian land-grant railway scheme. Parsons was
originally a Bible Christian cleric, then went into
business and Parliament, and became N.T.
Government Resident. He is an orator of the
impractical flowery type, and it is generally
believed that he will go to England with Premier
Jenkins to exploit the scheme.
Speaker Holder is comparatively poor and
has a large family (about a dozen). This was
what mainly induced him to decline the offer of a
commission to represent the Commonwealth at
Delhi Durbar. Besides, he would rather preach
the sermons at the anniversary of some little
Methodist chapel than invest in a Windsor uni-
form to swell round at a gaudy function, for he
neither smokes, drinks, nor relates “funny”
stories, and his tastes generally are of the very
simplest.
Francis Fox, the Age reporter who has been
suing ex-Railway-Minister Trenwith for libel,
based on remarks about the alleged unwholesome
appearance of his bald head and other matters,
achieved a remarkable distinction in the course of
the case. Premier Irvine and ex-Premier Peacock
both got into the box to express the opinion that
Fox, in his journalistic capacity, gave unfair and
misleading reports. As these reports appeared in
the Age as its political views, David Syme may
consider his paper widely disrespected by both
parties.
J. E. Mackey, one of the new members
for Gippsland in Vic. Assembly, was originally a
compositor. He has studied hard, brilliantly
gassed all sorts of law examinations, and made
imself the best local authority on synthetic
philosophy. He is saturated with Spencerisms,
but that has not been able to save him from
“ running cunning ” in politics. For years Mackey
was an ardent land-taxer and as such stood for a
city constituency. Now that he sits for a
country district he denounces the land tax as in-
expedient.
Peters, the 19-year-old individual accused
of inflicting a hideously cruel flogging on a small
boy whom he enticed to his house for the express
purpose, is a very ordinary-looking person, whose
only distinctive feature is a pair of those peculiar
blue-grey eyes that seem to gaze rather than look.
He wept copiously during the police-court pro-
ceedings, and disclaimed any recollection of the
matter. At present he is being medically observed
in the gaol hospital—which he seems to be much
in need of. Mel Dour ne has at times provided
some queer sensations and criminals, but she will
take long to raise a more abnormal one than this.
Phrase-making is quite a lost art in Vic.
Parliament since Deakin and Hancock are no
longer about, Treasurer Shiels being unable to
give the requisite air of spontaniety to his
written-down impromptus. Perhaps the neatest
phrase ever let off in the stolid House was
Deakin’s retort when Patterson chaffed him
about talking frivolously. Quoth Alfred : “ When
I see a bladder of air painted like a bomb, I don’t
get an axe to smash it. I prick it with my
finger ” —and he darted a long middle digit in the
direction of the butcher-politician. It was Han-
cock who described a Govt.’s policy as “one of
laissez faire, but more lazy than fair ”; and when
Murray Smith rose on one occasion to discourse
on Freetrade, exclaimed: “ Now for the two
great authorities, Murray and Adam Smith ! ”
ONE!
“ Come and have a drink, old fellow! ”
"No, thanksh, ole shap, jusht had one!"
Richard H. Harnett, of Chatswood, near
Sydney, lately died, at 82. The Harnetts of Cork
were a strong clan over 100 years ago, and Richard
carried the family vigor with him to Australia.
He started Mosman ; built the first ferry-boats
for local service; set up a line of ’busses; was
crack yachtsman and enterprising pastoralist; and
leaves behind him a widow and 12 children, with
“ Larry,” his picturesque kinsman, the perennial
ornament of N.S.W. Leg. Assembly.
Donald Mackinnon, Yictorian M.L.A.,
is that rare bird —a radical squatter.. He owns,
with his brothers, a fine Western district. (Vic.)
station, and (a doubtful possession these times) a
station in Queensland. But he had the good for-
tune, while studying for the Bar and during his
early barristerial years, to be under the tutelage
of George Higinbotham, a fact which accountsfor
the absence in him of the average squatter's
Toryism. He refused to join in the Kyabrama-
pootra cackle, and he and Mr. Andrews are now
the most awkward of the Irvine Government’s
opponents.
The State Govt. (S.A.) has again failed to
get a knighthood for Millionaire Angas, who is
now within a year or two of 80, and who is but
slowly recovering from a very severe illness. Mr.
Angas has liberally helped almost every Ade-
laide educational and philanthropic institution
worthy of assistance, while his private benefac-
tions —concerning which nothing is ever heard
publicly—are continuous and extensive. But he
is not popular. Even his charities are conducted
in a businesslike way, and he never gives until he
has thoroughly inquired into the merits of a case
of hardship.
English paper item :
General Booth left London on Saturday morning, for a
five months’ tour through the United States and Canada.
A large crowd of sympathisers assembled at the station to
bid good-bye to the leader. The General, who was
attired in a regulation Salvation Army uniform under a
long, heavily-braided overcoat, seemed in the best of
spirits. He discarded the familiar Army peaked cap for
a glossy silk hat, which he repeatedly raised in acknow-
ledgment of the salutes of his friends.
Thus does the dry-rot of affluence eat away , the
props of all successful new religions. The insi-
dious bell-topper disease has crept into the Army,
and the General wears braid, or catskin, or such-
like carnal gauds on his coat. And the bell-topper
religion is Lost.
In “ A Research on the Eucalypts, espe-
cially in regard to their essential oils,” Messrs.
Baker (curator) and Smith (sub-curator), of the
Sydney Technological Museum, have produced a
work embodying the results of immense labor,
and promising to be of great scientific and
economic value. Nearly 500 distillations were
made from about 40 tons of leaves obtained from
110 distinct species of eucalypti, and the book
(300 royal-quarto pages, liberally illustrated) con-
tains a vast amount of collateral botanical infor-
mation.
“Yolt” : On various electric-tram sys-
tems :
Re “ Galvo,” B. 25/10/’O2. In Kalgoorlie the track is
laid very solid ; 921 b. rails on jarrah sleepers ; and the
overhead work is of the very latest style. The “ special
work” mentioned by “Galvo” in describing the Auck-
land system may also be seen at the intersection of
Hannan’s and Mari tana sts., Kalgoorlie. Two tracks
intersect at right angles, and have curves in all four
directions. This complicated piece of work was put
down in about 10 days. The overhead trolley-wires,
feeder-cables, electric-light cables, and telephone wires at
this point form quite a shade about midday.
Yeteran Dr. Bernstein, the benevolent
Lismore (N.S.W.) citizen who, during the
recent S’African war, was howled at as a “pro-
Boer,” and who was even subjected to an official
inquiry for his reprehensible “disloyalty,” has
just been presented by the Lismore people (now
returned to sense) with a handsome testimonial
and a public address bearing the signatures of
many of his former enemies.
It is remarkable, a recent writer points
out, that in the many obituaries of Zola, “no
mention is made of his constant fear that death
would come to him suddenly. All his life he was
haunted by a constant dread of heart-failure; when-
ever he began a book he was convinced that he (
would never live to finish it, and when he made a
speech that he would fall dead before completing
the sentence. He was always watching for bad
omens, and would not enter a cab or a shop unless
the number was a multiple of three or seven. He
confessed that on retiring at night he opened his
eyes seven times, never more nor less, to satisfy
himself that he was not dying.”
Mr. Law, who has imported a little ex-
citement into N.S.W. politics by resigning from
the Labor party, and consequently from the
Assembly (to which he seeks election again as an
“independent”), has long been uncomfortable as
a solidarity member. When, some years ago, he
joined an Orange Lodge, and began to take an
active part in its proceedings, this caused dissatis-
faction, it not being considered desirable that a
Labor member should be mixed up with the sec-
tarian row. Since then Labor has been pulling
Mr. Law one way and sectarianism another;
and he finally goes clean out of the Labor camp.
His chance of re-election is pretty good, for his
electorate, Balmain South, is very Dill-Mackyish ;
but the Labor party will do all it can to.beat him
in the interests of discipline.
T’other day Farnell, M.L.A., rose in
N.S.W. Assembly to ask a question about insects.
These were some of the animals he mentioned in
an off-hand fashion :
Icerya purchasii, Vedalia cardinalis, Novius koeblei
Lestophomus, and Ophelnsia crawfordi. . Lecanium
hesperidum, Coccopliagus cagnatus, Lecanium armeni-
cum, Comys fusca, Aspidiotus perniciosus, Aphelimus
fuscipermis, Dactylopius , Riley espelendence, Pieris
rapal, Pteromalus puparum, Ceroplastes ceriferus,
Aspidiotus am antii.
Is it worth while to go into Parliament, and
climb laboriously to the higher rungs of politics
only to have beasts like that thrown at you ?
NEARLY.
POLITE DRIVER OF HEARSE (to hot lady walking
to railway-station four miles off): “ Better
take a lift, mum—you look near dead.”
Though the smaller Gippsland farmer has
been ready enough to help his distressed Mallee
brother, the rich squatters and graziers of that fat)
and profitable district have sheered off with re-,
markable unanimity. Some of them have been
simply coining money by taking advantage of the
meat market, and averaging in the neighborhood
of £lB a head for cattle at the rate of anything up
to 100 a week, and others have let portions of
their broad acres for grazing at phenomenal rentals.
Several of the big Gippslanders could easily spare
£lOOO each out of the last six months’ profits, but
so far only two of them figure in the donation list
for trifles. And the Western district, which has
also been raking in money hand-over-fist, has
behaved quite as meanly. It is the hated
metropolis, vilified by; every little shire council,
and set upon by organisations of country members
in Parliament, that has at all times to stand Sam.


MOST DELICIOUS.
MACONOCHIE’S
POTTED MEATS AI D PICKLES.
Swift & Company, 7 Spring Street, Sydney, Australian Agents.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
The Genuine Linen Mesh
Underwear has arrived !
THE D 3, DEIMEI LINEN MESa SINGLETS # PANTS
ill ill Sizes and in two Weights, obtainable from all the leading- Men’s Mercers at the fixed rate of 10/6 per
garment. Linen made m the form of a porous absorbent cloth possesses enormous advantages over the old-
iashion Woollen Gai merits. It does not become clammy or matted in wear. Is more absorbent than any other
material. Whoever heard ofvviping one’sihands on a woollen cloth? Why, then, the body which is constantly
giving off moisture? IT NEVER SHRINKS. Ask for descriptive pamphlet, obtainable at all leading Men’s
Mercers throughout the Commonwealth. SOLE AGENTS—
ROCHUSSEN BRO ;., 305.,’ Flinders Lane, Melbourne; The Strand Arcade, Sydney j Charles St., Adelaide.
LLS
“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
“Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
The Lancet.
BRANDY.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. — ln the ease of ethnological and
natural history items , etc., always give date and
place of experience ;or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value
Scene : Bookuokookera Court-house in the
remote back-blocks. District Court Judge (address-
ing jury): “ You can find the prisoner guilty of
theft; or if you consider the evidence that he stole
not conclusive, but are satisfied that the stolen goods
were found in his possession, you may find him
guilty of receiving stolen property. For instance,
a woman charged with infanticide may not be
found guilty of child murder, but the jury may
find her guilty of concealment of birth.” The
jury retires and deliberates for two hours. Then
it re appears, and the prisoner, a hulking, un-
shaven man of list., is replaced in the dock.
Foreman of jury (addressing the Judge): “We
find the prisoner guilty of concealment of birth,
yer ’Onner.” Then the jackass on the tree out-
side Bookookookera Court-house opened his bill
and laughed for the space of three days.
♦ * * »
Told in the Adelaide papers by one of the
survivors of a Licensed Victuallers’ picnic that
“a snake sft. Din. long, at Happy valley, was
seen to stand up on the tip of its tail in front of
the horses in a most threatening manner ; but the
driver killed it with his whip.” Ah, these are
dull days ! In the old brisk times the snakes that
yon saw coming home from a publicans’ picnic
didn’t simply stand on their tails waiting to be
killed. They had wings and flew at you, and with
their fins they swam at you, and when you woke
up a day or two afterwards you still felt the fire
and brimstone they had breathed into you.
* * « *
“ Prospector ” : “ M.L.A.” (B. 18/10/’O2)
says that camels are too sacred to the Afghan
drivers to be cruelly treated, besides being fiercely
THE NEW SCHOOL AND THE OLD.
BUSHMAN (of new school): “I say, Bill, don’t you ever get any newspapers?"
BILL (old school): “Newspapers! Bless me! No! What do I want prying
into other folks’ concerns ?”
vindictive to anyone who abuses them. Twaddle!
The camel is just about as sacred to the Afghan
driver as a bullock is to the average bull-puncher.
Also, it’s only the male camel (when in season)
that is fierce, and, even then, he’s a lot more
likely to attack the inoffensive stranger, who
attempts to pat him, than the driver who has
cruelly abused him. It’s common here (Westra-
lian back-country) to see cow-camels heavy in
calf, all over scars and sores, and with heavy loads
on.
“A.C.”: Re hybrids :
Have been rabbiting for nearly 20 years and have
caught hundreds of the hare-rabbit cross. They were a,
little bigger than the ordinary rabbit and with the hare’s
brown-red fur had the rabbit’s white bob-tail. I have
also caught the cat-rabbit hybrid, but it was very young
and I failed to rear it from lack of proper food. About
eight years ago the keeper of a boarding-house in North
Deniliquin had an undoubted hybrid of this kind. It had
the rabbit’s head and white short tail, with the cat’s fur,
and had a rolling walk or wobble very unlike the stealthy
movements of the cat. It was omnivorous, and I have
seen it eat meat and grass in one day. Three hybrids [of
what kind?] were presented to the Melbourne Zoo about
seven years ago.
The above description is quite valueless. The
teeth and claws would have been the important
parts to investigate.
• * * •
“ Nardo ” : Interesting to know the
number of churches that, during the last decade,
have gone under to fire, cyclone, and other causes,
from which, as a matter of sound religious argu-
ment, they should be exempt. Latest undoing of
R.C. and Presbyterian kirks at Canowindra
(N.S.W.) will need much explanation. Not long
since I saw the Anglican church at Cobar an ash-
heap, following previous day’s supplication for
rain. The irony of it 1 One of the crowd of
onlookers after the cremation, a Chinaman, grew
quite eloquent over the sanctified ruins. Said he:
“Whafor! wha for! Mr. K y play for lain.
No catchem. Burnem down church ! All same
Chinaman. Spose ’em no lain come now, burnem
down nother churoh. Bime bi’ Joss he sendem
plentee lain.”
* * • *
Re Mallee (Vic.) drought, a business
resident:—
Have just been through the Mallee, from Warrackna-
beal to Hopetoun and Rainbow. Should say the whole
district will average three bushels —some more, some
nothing. One farmer near Hopetoun has 3000 acres pro-
mising three bags an acre. Old wheat is now being sent
from Beulah ; 14,000 bags stacked at Rosebery. Mallee
fanners require from 30 to 401 b. of wheat an acre for seed.
Wimmera district is worse than the Mallee.
• • • •
“ Glenara” about the woes of the bucolio
horse: —
Reported re-
cently that a Vic-
torian constable
named Fennessey
has invented an
agricultural in-
strument, in the
working of which
horse-flesh will be
unnecessary, the
working power
being supplied by
a vertical tubular
boiler with a verti-
cal compound
non - condensing
coupler engine.
If the contrivance
comes up to ex-
Eectations (a trial
as given good re-
sults) the farm
horse will soon be
out-of-date as far
as ploughing, roll-
ing, drilling,
chaff-cutting, &c.,
are concerned.
And to those who
know and under-
stand the news is
good ; for what a
world of suffer-
ing ceases when
the descendants
of Glancer plod
no more along the
corn-fields and
the unhurtable
invention of Fen-
nessey takes their
place. No more
sore shoulders,
scalded sides and
kicked ribs ; no
more unshod,
bruised feet
tramping over
sun-dried clods ;
no more daily
trudging up and
down the one-
chain lands; no
more shivering in
roofless sheds
while devouring
a meagre meal.
The greedy, hust-
ling cocky, callous
as the soil he sows
his shrivelled seed
in, will be able
to drive right
through from
dawn till dark
without giving a
moment’s agony
to any dumb
creature. The
foaming flanks,
the bit - jarred
mouths will be
dj more, and the
would-be humane
driver—the hired
laborer with a
heart—will hear
no more the curses
»? hi s.ears because he will not drive
fast enough, because he will not flog. Fennessev’s “ horse”
will be indifferent to the fall of the green hfdeVsh
* * * *
Unnatural history. Thus
John Norton in a recent Tkuth : “ Such sectarian
savages are as much vermin to the political life of
the country, as are dingoes to the farmer’s flocks,
or bandicoots to his wife’s hen-roost.” Now
bandicoots are strictly vegetable feeders. John
homi d w?th k t 0 T ° by ’ aS a subject lie is niore at
THE SHEARER UP-TO-DATE, OR THE BICYCLE
OUTDONE.
Creasy Mick changing sheds at the Back of Bourke.
“Gibo": Re “Dargin’s grey" (B.
15/11/’O2), “Ajax” errs in stating that the horse
has thrown every self-styled champion rider that
mounted him, with the exception of “ The
Breaker.” He was successfully ridden by W*
Wright at Sunny Corner Exhibition Sports, in
’95, and again at Bathurst Show in ’96, when the
rider was presented with £8 by Lord Hampden,
who said the latter was the best man he’d
ever seen in the saddle. Also, the famous buck-
jumper has since—in his decadence —been success-
fully ridden by Tom Sloan, for a side wager, at
Bathurst Show, ’9B, and by Harry Mantle at
Lithgow, ’99—the latter with a hold.
“Quirinch”: Be the buckjumper “Dargin’s
Grey, (8/11/’O2). Not long ago the horse was
travelling with Martini’s show, and at Gunnedah
(N.S.W.) was ridden twice by aboriginal Abel
Woods, of Gunnible station, and never moved
him in the saddle. The terror was also ridden by
one “ Combo Jack ” (connected with the show)
but, owing either to Dargin’s temperament or
“ Combo’s ” foresight, the horse, in this case,
would do nothing more than “root.” [No more
Dargin’s Grey.—Ed. B.].
* » « *
“Alone”: Not generally known that
bunny is a oapital swimmer. Have had dogs that
could catch him ashore, but as soon as he took to
the river the dogs had no chance. Head and
shoulders well out of water, Brer Rabbit swims
straight and fast. [So perhaps in Australia he
picks up this swimming accomplishment too.]
“Alex. M.” : I have frequently (in
Britain) observed the hare and the rabbit swim,
and found both poor performers, because
they trim “down-by-the-head,” the nos-
trils being barely above water, while the
rump is raised absurdly high and the hindlegs
waste their force on the suface, like the screw of
an over-light steamer. It would be a poor dog
that couldn’t overhaul either of them in the
water.
* * * *
According to Peak Downs Telegram
Mr. Lesina (member for Clermont, Q.), acting on
behalf of an alleged “Father of Clermont,”
t’other week handed Premier Philp the following
breath-taking claim :
This is My Bill
October 6th, 1902,
To The Honourable Robt. Philp
Premier.
Old Pioneer and explorer of Queensland first discovered
payable gold in the Colony of Queensland namely, Peak
Downs, Clermont District from the years 1861 1863 and
1864 until 1893, to explore and prospect the field I spent
£36000.
£36000 standing from 1861
at 4s. per cent. Amount £199954
Interest £ 8594 3 6
Total Amount £208448 3 6
This is the Amount of My Claim which is due to Me by
the Queensland Government if the Government is not
satisfied to give me my money I will take my land 300
Square Mile's which I prospected and explored with my
money and I am entitled to it.
Since the colony has been opened by me I claim a
premium upon all kinds of Minerals raised in Queensland.
John Memonitch.
* • • *
“Buttle”: Re Judge Docker’s dog-de-
cision (B. 8/11/’01). The very worst dog to sool
on to horses is a eattle-dog who is a good heeler,
and a horse knows this quite well. A sheep-dog
or a mongrel will only rush up and bark, and a
horse simply presents his tail and his compli-
ments and shakes hands with the dog if he is not
a bit fly.
Things are in a strangely ab-
original state at White Cliffs (N.H.
Wales). The lockup contains only
two cells, in one of which a femals
prisoner is working out her sen-
tence, while a dangerous lunatid
howls in the other. A wife-beater,
under remand, camps in the open
yard, and a policeman has to sit up
at night and watch him. A cranky
Salvationist, who wore an inverted
beer-pot design on his jersey by way
of showing that he had given up
drink, is in custody at an hotel on a
charge of attempting suicide, with
another weary officer looking after
him. Drunks and disorderlies,
unless they are violent to the verge
of homicide, aren’t arrested now,
but only summoned. Timber is
scarce at White Cliffs, and there
isn’t enough of it to tie prisoners
to, and, besides, the police would
have to go round and pour water
over them in the heat of the day.
» * * *
“ Alone ” : Let our Aus-
tralian Pasteurs and Kochs con-
sider the little busy flea, how he
lives, and how he dies. It may
be well worth while, for it looks
as if the little tormentors are sub-
ject to some disease that occasion-
ally clears them right out of the
whole town or district. Avenel
(Vic.), for instance, was, a few
years ago, simply swarming with
them. They bred in millions in
every sand-patch about town, and
every house was wondrously in-
fested. They abounded even in
the churches and thoroughly en-
joyed their Sunday’s carouse upon
the worshippers. Quite suddenly,
however, the pest died right out,
and since then a flea in Avenel
has been a rare bird indeed. An occasional speci-
men is discovered on the local dog when he re-
turns from an excursion to a flea-infested locality ;
but they never make any headway.
* • • *
“Frank S.” re milking-machines:—
Your correspondent (B. 15/11/’O2), who states that the
milking-machines are proving a costly failure to the Vic.
dairyman, is right, as far as he goes. The machine
alluded to is a Scotch-Yankee invention, which draws off
the milk by an alternating vacuum pressure, the pulsa-
tion being managed by a pretty mechanism that lets a
little air in once a second. The defect of the machine is
that it has but one tube for both vacuum-pressure and
milk, and they get badly mixed when the cow is in full
milk. There is another machine- a Vic. invention—
which gets the milk away, but it is slow and awkward,
and has other drawbacks. But dairymen feel that the
milking-machine is bound tocome all right— like the shear-
ing-machine ; and some practical dairymen are putting
their wits to work to overcome the present defects. To-
day I saw an improved machine, just patented by a Terang
(Vic.) farmer, which looks like a big step forward. It has
a double tube, one for the milk, the other for the vacuum
pressure on the teat. The teat cups are double, so that
the vacuum does not, as in the Scotch-Yankee machine,
act direct on the teat and hurt the cow. The new
machine did its work well, and, best point of all, the
cows seemed to like it. Milk-machine inventors should
always bear in mind that the key to the successful
machine is the fact that the cow has the power to let
down or retain her milk at pleasure. If she makes up
her mind not to let it down no machine known will get it
from hen She can’t keep the milk up for ever, but she
can hold it for over an hour, and that’s long enough to
burst up the most beautiful machine. She started doing
this with the S.-Y. machine ; hence the trouble. One of
the S.-Y. inventors is on his way out here to investigate
the trouble ; and the chances are that he will arrive in
nice time to congratulate a smart Victorian on having
fixed it up.
* * * •
“ Jimac ” : Re the recently-discussed fact
that tree-roots will burn for a long distance from
the stump with no apparent air-way :
In ’77, near Warragul, I was swopping ghost-yarns with
another nipper of my own age until we were too scared
to stay any
longer, and
started for
home (about
a mile) in op-
posite direc-
tions. Was
hurrying
along timor-
ously, when
suddenly
showers of
sparks shot
up from my
feet. Could
have sworn
that I trav-
elled that way
for at least a
quarter of a
mile when I
fell into what
seemed to me
the bottom-
less pit, well
lit up with
sparks. Didn’t
wait to see if
there were
any devils
there, but
scrambled out
and bolted for
home, where
I arrived
speechless,
QUITE GONE.
VOICE FROM THE TOP OF THE STAIRS:
“Is that young man gone,
Mary?"
MART: "Oh, yes, mamma, awfully. ”
covered with white ashes, and with hands slightly burnt.
Got a licking for telling my father, in all seriousness, that
I had been to hell. Found next day that I had got on the
track of a root that had burned for about 30ft. from the
stump, and had left about 3in. of burnt soil over the
place where it had been. I had run right along to where
the stump was still burning, about 3ft. down.


A Drink I
A Tonic!
A Medicine !
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Call fur WOLFE’S Schnapps and m; ke sure that
you take nothing else.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It dmes awry
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for X. S. Wales: Sayers,
Allport and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor*, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
The“Fx.&R.”
PURSE.^—
Pursuing our pro-
gressive policy, vve
have now improved
on the old line we
introducedyearsago.
“ Fx. & R.” Purse and Card Case
combined, with extra outside
Pocket, 5/6
We have made them larger, to talse the largest size
(lady’s) card. We have introduced an outside
pocket. We have improved the Leather and
Stitching. We have modernised the Sterling Silver
Mounts. We have bettered the finish,
The Purse is a great improvement on last year’s model.
TO
m
'j
A
9 6
Purse and
Card Case
combined.
Seal
Leather.
1 urse and
Card Case,
Best
English
Make.
Silver
Mount...
8/6
London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
Fairfax & Roberts
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER STREET.
That tremendous storm, a week back, when
iuost of the top-dressing of the Great Australian
desert was blown over Victoria, brought to pass
some curious effects. Besides the showers of mud,
brought down by the subsequent rain, the trains
On Swan Hill line were blocked by accumulations
of sand—in some places a foot deep. At Ultima,
one of Bent’s “ over-manned and under-worked ”
engines broke down through being choked with
dust; while, at Charlton, a baby of three was
blown off a verandah, and was only found next
morning, four miles away. It is all very well to
talk about placing the people on the land, but
when the land thus comes and places itself on the
people, it makes a difference.
• • * *
“ Bobrid ” : Be “Boko’s” comparison
(8., 15/11/’O2) of the fruit-hawker with his sore-
backed moke and the station-owner with his
starving sheep. Fora “sprat” the “poor devil
of a fruit-hawker ” can fix up his horse, and if he
doesn’t, he is a callous wretch, deserving of
punishment. The station-owner has starving
sheep, but is prepared to spend any sum in reason
in fodder to keep them alive ; and if his money runs
out, he has done his best and is a victim of circum-
stances. “Over-stocking” is the parrot-cry of
the man who doesn’t know. Wouldn’t the grazier
be a fool not to stock his holding to its full
carrying capacity ? True, a drought may make
that over-stocking, but he can’t predict a drought.
If he could, there’d be no over-stocking.
* * * *
The Bulletin has received from Johan-
nesburg a photo, of a mule “ with foal at foot.”
Writes the sender:—
They came from Bloemfontein Remount Station, and
have been presented to the Zoological Gardens in Pre-
toria. The dam is about 15J hands in height, and grey
in color, and the •foal (female) is a sturdy youngster of
about eight months old. It will be interesting to know
whether this foal m turn will breed. There are on record
but fcWo other cafes of mules breeding, one of which
occurred in Australia. The dam in that instance was
from a mare that had had several mule foals, but had, in
this case, bred to a horse, evidently, however, “ throwing
back,” with the result that the foal was a mule to all
appearances.
• * • •
“Jungle”: The closed-road curse is
making itself keenly felt in Victoria. South of
the Dividing Range, where “starvers” ate being
travelled in thousands, the big landholder is
mostly boss of the lanes. One estate alone com-
prises 800 acres of closed roads, the grass on
which, and on miles of other appropriated roads
and reserves, could be mown. A Wimmera man,
who is paying 2s. fid. a head per week for 40
horses, says there is feed enough thus locked up to
last all the mallee stock for months.
SAVING HIS HONOR.
TIM : “Hello, there, Alike, what're ye runnin'
fer? ”
MIKE: “Hennessey back there wants to fiyht me.
He says I'm frightened of 'im , an' I ain't
yoin' to give 'im, a chance of provin' it.”
The latest discovery re cane cultivation in
Queensland. A Burdekin sugar-grower, who was
also a sheep-owner, turned a number of his
starving sheep into the young cane to keep them
alive. The sheep went through and through the
stuff, never touching the cane or shoots at all. On
subsequent examination, however, the owner
found that the juinbucks had eaten every weed
out of the young stuff, and left it much cleaner
than ever the Kanakas had done previously. The
plan is also in vogue now on the Burnett plan-
tations.
* * * *
A stand-up fight between a ’roo and a man
named Fallis happened lately at Southport, near
Brisbane. The animal was bailed up by some
dogs, one of which it hugged to death. Fallis
went to help his dog, when the fight began, and
he was getting considerably the worst of the deal,
when two extra dogs came to the rescue and killed
the ’roo.
“C.H.T.”: Be leprosy— “a disease of
which he has seen much in various parts of the
world ”: —
Not long ago, in the northern part of New Caledonia, I
had occasion to accept the hospitality of a French settler
and his half-caste wife, and whilst strolling round the
premises I noticed, in a hutch, a pair of tame white and
brown rabbits, from the nostrils of which protruded horn-
like masses of scab, the rims of their ears being also sore
and unsightly. Remarking upon this to my hostess, she
explained that, in the locality whence they had come,
the rabbits were nearly all in a similar state—but she
scouted the idea of “une maladie.” “ Non, non, M’sieur;
presque tous les lapins b, sont comme ga. Je vous
assure c’est la race.” But, three weeks later, when I re-
visited the place, the protuberant scab had disappeared,
and so had the greater part of the animals’ noses and
upper lips, and the ears had become mere torn rags.
But what chiefly strengthened my first impression that
they were suffering from some form of leprosy was the
fact that their feet had been attacked, several toes being
missing, and the rest apparently about to follow. Now,
supposing that this affection was leprosy, and that all the
rabbits in a certain locality were, as stated, similarly
affected, might not investigation throw valuable light
upon the pathology of this dread disease ?
• • • •
“Yimmang”: Be Tom Coward and the
bottle-tree (B. 30/8/’02). In Queensland, years
ago, the pioneer housewives made excellent jelly
from the sap of this tree mixed with water,
sweetened, boiled, and put in a basin to “set.”
The long slits seen in many of the trees may have
been cut by the blacks as an outlet for the sap,
which they were fond of.
• » • »
“ Spinifex ” : Be distinction between ’roo-
rat and bandicoot. The b. is slightly larger than
the ’r-r, and more thick set about the front parts.
The former, also, is of a delicate grey, with a
black stripe down the back and another across the
shoulders; while the latter is of a tawny fawn
color flecked with white. Both animals are white
on throat and belly. Another distinction is that,
when hopping, the bandicoot always carries his
right paw, held stiffly across the chest, as though
in a sling.
• * * *
Several children and one or two adults
have lately been afflicted with total blindness
between Cairns and Townsville (Q.), from (the
doctors aver) eating an indigenous fruit known
as “ finger cherries.” One man was ad-
mitted to Cairns Hospital on 3rd Nov. whose
right eye had been affected, and soon after
admission he lost the sight cf the other eye. The
blindness is caused by the destruction of the in-
ternal nerves of the eye, and is pronounced
incurable. The cherries are just now receiving
the attention of the Govt. Botanist.
» » * *
“ H.P.” : The difference in men ! A Yic.
railway traffic-porter, who was reprimanded and
threatened with suspension by the S.M. because
he didn’t “sir ” that official every time_, became
an engine-cleaner, and, mindful of
his traffic training, was careful
to “sir” the loco, foreman.
“ Oh, never mind the
‘sir,’” said the lat-
ter (a man—unlike
the station master —
full of skill and
strength and know-
ledge) “there’s no
time for so much
d d civility in
this branch.” Again;
a 17-year-old traffic-
clerk won’t answer
unless “Mistered,”
whereas his father,
an experienced rail-
way man, is plain
“Jack.” The youth
gets a 1st class free
pass when on annual
leave, but his father
is glad to get a 2nd
class free ride.
* *
The new
head of S. Aus-
tralia’s agiicul-
- tural dept.,
Professor Towar,
a typical product
of the American farm
schools and experimen-
tal stations, frowns down
the State’s craze for mineral
phosphates. Of course
they have done good,
he admits; but
they ought not to
have been neces-
sary so soon,
anyway. His
opinion is, fur-
ther, that they
cannot keep the soil
productive for very
many years, and that for general purposes they
don't approach stable-manure. “ I reckon you’re
j ust about where the first generation of American
farmers was the generation that worked out
the soil and abandoned their places.”
* * * •
Anew disease has broken out among
horses at Goombungee, Queensland. The tongue
swells so —filling the entire cavity of the mouth—
that the animal is unable to eat. Shortly before
death the eyes burst, and the lips and head become
swollen. The rest of the body is not affected.
Mr. H. D. SMITH, Bradgate, lowa, October
17, 1899, writes :
“ I find Jayne’s Expectorant to be THE-ONLY COUGH
REMEDY THAT CAN BE RELIED ÜBON, and I con-
fidently recommend it.”
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabetii-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par
cel, vvhich will be followed by direct remittance
is solicited.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS
No notice will be taken of communications insujiciently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Outlaw : What are the names of the big squatter
and opulent livery-stable-keeper who gravitated to the
Benevolent? And what about those “dashing”
daughters? Vic.: Why should there have been any
inquiry into The Victory’s running? He won the Cup
after finishing second in the Melbourne Stakes. The owners
didn’t say the horse was unbacked. Both owners are resi-
dent in England just now. What are you giving us ?....
H.E.: You can’t make the Deity “scratch His head’*
(without any capitals) in these columns; try a paper
published in a Latin country Henry P.: Well enough
meant, but what clumsy bathos it would look in print!..
..E.W.D.: An interesting sketch or episode not 1800
words long has about 140 times as much chance with The
Bulletin as a 4-column story M.: You send the very
bluggiest tale of the month ; husband poisoned with
opium, paramour married, then children and second hus.
band killed and the lady’s suicide. Is it intended for a
story or a black pudding?... .R.G.K.: We don’t trouble
about the bad hand-writing of King Edward ; he doesn’t
often contribute to The Bulletin Ponemah : Stilted
ode, blaming “ Ye rocks of triple royalty” for the Elin-
gamite tragedy, doesn’t meet the situation at all; have
you a sonnet on you as to the necessity of keeping canned
meat on ships’ boats? Revilo: How the staff does
revile your slip-shod copy 1 Only an absolute genius is
privileged to write on “ waste ” with a sharpened stick...
..Will J. : A flurried account of some happening in which
Casey, beer, Hogan and begorra are inextricably con-
fused ; referred to the Browning Society for elucidation.
Touchstone : A lot of promise ; the artist gentleman
who talks beautifully, can’t paint, but teaches painting, is
quite true to life ; but a natural beginning drivels into an
absurd and melodramatic finish.... Smith Hill: Moral
poem in four stanzas rejected not because of the moral
but because of the poetry J.K.H. : Good Latin for it
would be “Habeamusaddiffundendum” or “ ut diffun-
damus.” Heraldic Latin is generally rather doggy ; our
canine Latin expert is away on a holiday just now
Aspirant: We keep our vitriol for “ bounders "—not for
modest neophytes like you. ..W.F.F.: “What is the
mallee, anyhow?” Mallee scrub consists entirely of a
very close-growing euealypt (E. dumosa). Mulga scrub is
principally of a dwarf acacia.... C.H.L. : Thanks for
elaborate formulation of the monkey-weight problem, but
“ Alex. M.” (B. 15 11/’O2) has anticipated you, in few
words and plain terms.. A Chump : Out of the question.
Besides manufacture-cost, there are, in the case of a really
good bike, royalties to pay on about three dozen patents...
E.P. : The Bendigo Exhibition Art Union is advertised to
be drawn this month. It isn’t the drawing of the prizes
you have to regard with suspicion. It’s the painting of
the prizes Jaka :In short, red is blue, and blue is
striped, wherefore he who falls over a precipice on a
Friday is unwise, and shall strike Che bottom with a
thud The Mut : Wink yarn not new enough
J.R. : We did receive some heavy and utterly in-,
comprehensible items about King Charles’s Head,
or some such matter, but the good items you say
you sent along were evidently lost on the road
A.K.W. : Looks like a magnificent libel PI atm an :
Will use it Long Un : “Walk” in type The Nut
(M.L.): Do boil it down P.W. : “ Music and M.” hardly
up to mark Adelaide Primrose: A little too cata-
logueish ; try again W.G. : Too trite Maia
S.°: Thought rather hackneyed Maurice M. : Moderate
merit only Ku-Klux : Verse not good enough
W.W.B. : “To be continued serially, if required.” Em-
phatically not required D. Howell: Neither has
strength or skill enough.... Yarrum : “ Justice ” rather
feeble A.V.N. : Lacks vigor and crispness... Fenian:
Your scribble is so diabolical that we don’t propose trying
to decipher it.... Aqua: Friction-fire question laid to
rest.... E.A.P.: Thanks ; make ’em as short and sweet as
you can.... J.F.H. : “Brown Eyes” weak and conven-
tional. .. .Hairbrush: Too hard to lick into shape
Bolivar : Catch us printing things like that! F.XR. :
“A Course” very slight and not convincing enough for
its length... .Henry P. :We want terse comment, not
long yarns accompanied by long news-clippings Dick
W. : Too “steep.” Reka : Ditto Bigov : The Bulle-
tin never publishes parodies, or “ answers,” unless of
surpassing merit < !.L.R. : “Battery” strikes us as
irremediably confused John Gow : Mutoscope not yet
sufficiently known in Australia Kea : Yes, very old—
and very suggestive M.J.T. : Good verse, but of an
unattractive sort Francis d’E. : Crude rendering of
an ancient theme James A. Allan: Will print your
melodious and strongiy-original verses The Nut: Too
much husk, no kernel... .Louie E. : Strangely reminis-
cent of Mrs. Leo Hunter’s—
Upon a log
Expiring frog.
T.H.O. : But that bush v. city controversy was
worked out in The B. years ago, when you were at school
probably P.A.T. : None of them strong enough
A. R. Mott: It’s “ East Lynne ” with variations R.K. :
A prune is not a dried plum, but the dried form of a
fruit which is a plum with a strain of peach in it. ..
G.F.A. : Haven’t room to repeat economic truisms
Harris W. : Declined, of course. Why should we send
back a M.S. if we intended to use it? Nell Gwynne :
Not story enough Nada : Neither up to mark
Hamer : Just a big, vague blotch of blood, no story
Merlyn : Easy enough, surely, to search out a dead
kangaroo and look for yourself; we’ve no space to
discuss fool-questions or lazy-man questions Bob R. :
“Forecasting” has no fresh facts... .Prodigal : Your
“ toast” is rather dry The Evil : Too much left to be
implied ; suggests that you are trying to write puzzles,
not stories J.D.W. : Thirty-two lines to express a joke
worth only four Rita S. : Pitiful without being tragic.
Alone : “ Studying Flies ” is in draggled and halting
feet Gilaomi: Your bushranging yarn is very artificial.
E.M.P.: Cut it short ; pars, wanted, not long
disquisitions Riverina : A small point in a paddock of
verbiage H.B. : Very cumbrous... .Dion : Not enough
in it Bob : A 12-year-old cockatoo is nothing wonder-
ful. They often reach 30 J.M.G. : It’s just as genuine
as the rest of the art-unions. You mustn’t look a charity-
horse in the mouth W.R. : There may be something
in what you suggest about the running of those two
horses. Yet it is certain that the one thought to be
“ not wanted ” ran about the best race of his life in the
way he was ridden. The Bulletin, sneaking Shake-
pearianly, must have “ cause more relative than this ”
for imputing dishonesty Melborno : But why all
this mystery about the name of tlieMelb. “malesoprano”
who is’said to be going to “ sing for Melba” in private ?
And why is she “ expected to take him home under her
wing?” Rats ! —or rather chickens L...E.5. : Don’t like
“Two M, and W.”....Rip: Rather well told, but we
couldn’t possibly print such a thing Win. MacD. :
Fair lyrical quality, but too conscientiously erotic
Hilda K. : Rejected, after some hesitation. Hardly
enough in it,.... E. Mew : Too faintly written for a busy
man to pore over J. W. Mac : Too light and slight.
Rusher: Quite useless to u5,,..A.M.: Well,the po r
public is accustomed to swallow fake-pictures, Anyone
of sense would know that the Elingamite pictures in
question were mostly imaginary. The paper doubtless
relies on the fact that its readers haven’t any sense
Unsuitable F.W.11., Wm. 0., R.T., Ted, Crow, W.G.,
Wisp, Will J., Uloola, Gerald 8., Jas. It., Riverina.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Rutherford 0.: An answer was written to the effect
that the sketches were quite valueless for Bulletin pur-
poses, being merely poor copies Renard : Suggestions
hopeless Dick W. : The blackest of ink (Indian) and
the whitest of paper Jim : A silly pun.... Unavailable :
E.M., R. Byrne, Theo. P., W.R., J.A.8., Gridiron, J.A.0.,
A.R.8., Novice, Tom 0., H.E., Alan M., Benison.
At Wilcannia (N.S. W.) the Darling
“River” has vanished. For several miles the
bed is absolutely dry.
Seven hundred emigrants are stranded at
Capetown, in a bankrupt country where a man
can’t even fall back on pick-and-snovel work—for
the nigger does all that. Distant hills look green,
but how bare and rocky they are on close inspec-
tion !
“ Saltpetre”: Be that monkey-rope-weight
Sroblem. About a year ago a number of S.A.
chool of Mines students decided the point prac-
tically. I was the monkey; and when, after
much sweating, I arrived at the pulley, the weight
was there too. The result was confirmed as the
logical and expected one by the Lecturer on
Physics at the University. Stated briefly, the
weight and the monkey—neglecting the weight of
the rope—travel upward at the same rate.
NELSON ILLINGWORTH'S BUST OF J. F.
SHERIDAN AS THE WIDOW O’BRIEN.
Photo, by Talma, Sydney.
The infamous female Drake (of Wellington,
M.L.), who, with the assistance of her two elder
children, flogged her little daughter so dreadfully
that the child died shortly afterwards, is not to
escape. The jury found her guilty of manslaughter,
and an appeal was lodged on the ground that evi-
dence showing the mother had always entertained
a dislike for the dead child should not have been
admitted. The appeal was dismissed, and the
child-flogger will be sentenced at next criminal
sessions. According to the evidence, when she
had beaten the child till she was utterly weary,
she made her two daughters, aged 13 or 14, flog
her in turn, and it was a few minutes after they
had finished that the little girl died. As an utterly
gruesome female Mrs. Drake has few equals.
Australia badly wants a Drapers’ Defence
Association with an Assassination Department
attached. The most down-trodden animal in the
world is the draper’s assistant. That is the male.
The female is always likely to get married, and
that makes her less dependent; but the man, to
whom marringe means only that he won’t have so
much independence as he had before (which was
none) is a hopeless case. The trade is full of
stories of tyranny practised by arrogant calico-
jimmies. One of the tribe used to make the whole
staff stand to attention in their places before the
big front doors were opened, and then he would
stalk down between the counters, his thumbs in
his armpits, muttering loudly, “You —
sons of , nice-looking set of —— cows
you are ; wonder how much you robbed me of
yesterday, damn you!” And the drapers stood
by meekly and took it all. The potentate enjoyed
it so much that one morning he had the carters
ranged up likewise. The carters were made of
sterner stuff, and some of them guffawed when
his preliminary remarks shed a lurid tint through
the atmosphere. But when he reached the rob-
bery part the man nearest him landed “one”
violently on his jaw. The head bookkeeper
fainted at the dreadful sight, but the carter de-
manded an instant retractation, failing which lie
would kick the boss while he was down. The
capitalist apologised with alacrity, and the carter
went off to look for another job. The morning
greeting is now confined rigidly to the drapers.


PRESS CRITICISM.
At a recent meeting oi the Federal Cabinet*
it is alleged, Ministers resolved to answer
goricallv every attack made upon their adminis-
tration in the leading dailies of the Common-
wealth. Permanent officials were, therefore,
directed to go carefully through the entire«press
Of the Federation e v ery day ; to cut ou't all
articles com men tun: on their respective chiefs,
and to paste said articles on paper
% ?,CKer >
[3n<zade.
5
' oj' M^jf&ytit je*>^
jrs ,?-'■”?!>,>« .
r&ffi fot »oFct S
°J- Je.r
Ic-f i*jo ijo i?i/S"> e $5
of C 6\) , )^ y ~f
b**<i
No f\pW Whatever—
Ji&tA litie.
/_/ Comp-
fort] h;
“THE MA'EEEE. SETTLERS
The Relief Movement.
A number of requer.tr. for free passes down to
Melbourne and other cities and town, were
’ S °" ,e dls ' :t,3a10r > rh « committee
decided that «« ,t., object was to assist i„ keep
jng those at present in the mailee on the land
the requests could not be entertained
(ortjnQi'll €e. "
‘ /v|o !
it'll be cooler
The awkward 1"ho^»|
nately has arisen ew t t h e factory
s°rbsr. rd -*rc“.s
nrJvrm".™.'!
":r„rr-
possibly prolonged strife.
b
With the con
i y arising difficulties connected with the
Ptemratxon of the first Federal electoral ™l„
WO3 Hi 0 ?*? "T 6jeot ' On in D « c <™ber
IWA He explains that the services of the
police are required. not to cheek the census
returns but to provide a house-to-house visit* ‘
tion, which Will secure an accurate eleCLTst
embracing all adult males and fences ‘
eA
Swj-
A of expU'ns /
»J« r e *\\y n r f'"J« \ or
IjaJf ss dtjc iricri
Vt'fT'ci' ewjb^tc
¥
j)l^np3
To lessen or dry up the stream of private
. subscriptions would be • lamentable, because
it would tend to cut off the hospitals from
the community’s kindly interest, and thus
to injure'the national character. The giver
is blessed in-his deed ; the highest form of
giving is personal giving ; and if taxes took
the place of giving to the poor the com
oaunity would be impoverished
IV"7* n • “ tV- °7C . let* nje 'feel
4jt bltyeA*i*so\ r*A**’
/fiji* ®| hjy ®w« will
*Tk -h&e& s'J'
vwte*'*’". a t ' A ®
e f,# ? e-' 6 ""' B ' -fte
, leB^ oi V V*
Z'SZ+s&sz***
Go^ eto Att^ r Ob®*
RATEPAYERS AND RETRENCHMENT.
■ At the Flomington council lost night the
mayor (councillor H. Purvis) said he bad re-
ceived a requisition from some ratepayers askiug
for the ase of the Town Hell far a public
meeting- to protest against retrenchment' in the
Railway department to an extent which was
not anticipated by the genera) public when
asking for reform, and which was calculated to
depreciate the value of property and retard
business in the district.
*l*l -A
.%•/ do’j' ia '
t Noticed ,
H" tn 0oll«fi»7
Scopes oj- C4OO d ,(<4
Co '^ e
MELBOURNIAN A.


Mr. O’Sullivan has discovered the fact that the new cemetery
at La Eerouse has saved the country more than £50,000.
“ In view of which,” said the spokesman of the Undertakers’
deputation to Mr. O’Sullivan, “ don’t think the time is ripe
for the Government to give some" practical encouragement to the
, promotion of funerals 1 ”
(As usual the Minister promised, etc.)
CHRISTIANITY COMES BACK TO THE STABLE.
“ In the course of his remarks Dr. Dill Macky said that he had ascertained
that of 88 stable boys in the Postal Department 44 were Roman Catholics and
44 were Protestants.” —News Item.
Rev. Dill Macky : “ Oh, he’s a Catholic all right! Mark him down.”
' The Governor-General, Lord Tennyson, has received the news
from Mr, Chamberlain, who cabled yesterday that “ His
Majesty the King has been pleased to confer the title
of Lord Mayor upon the Mayors of Sydney and
Melbourne.”
Mayor Hughes, of Sydney, immediately took
to his bed, but is now doing as wejl
as can be expected, “
JOHN SHE'S CELEBRATED MIXED
DRINK WAM&NTSD JO SUIT ALL TASTES;.
at last
The women voters in N.S.W. outnumber the
men by a very large majority
CARTOONLETS.


A. SAUNDERS’
WATCHES, CLOCKS. JEWELLERY, &SILVERPLATE AT FREETRADE PRICES.
SAVE 25 TO 50 PER CENT. SHOWROOMS: 815 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
i>.< . -**
A. SAUNDERS.
A NICE LADIES’ PRESENT.
2 Pure Silver Brushes, Comb, and 9 Pieces Manicure and
lifts, JB7 10s. Posted anywhere free from duty.
A. SAUNDERS.
Jewel Case. Lovely Chased, Carved, and Ornamented Sflk-
lined, 22s 6d. Useful present.
Pure
Silver-mounted,
7a lid.
FTjASKS,
Silver-plated, 10s,
12s 6d, 16s, 20a, 20s.
jt ■JCUtiiscCwt}
SYDN
NOON
yi ,‘;r\
i\ . 1 •5!
■i 4 '« «
H
& -mti'M * r m
SI m -i
A. BAUNDEKS.
Cake or Dessert Knives and Eerks, Handsomely Carved Ivory Handles in
Silk and Velvet-lined Case, £4. A handsome present.
Child’s Pure Silver
Battle, Pearl Handle,
81 in. long-, 6s 6d, 8a
” 6d, and 10s 6d.
Pure Silver Thimbles,
Gold-mounted, 4s 6d.
Other styles, Is 6d,
2s Gd, and 3s 6d.
• r^iSkii
s; '(C» *
• ..■■■■ "ft®*-
• Irosmv
■■\:
y-?
t^'l3kx.
:^.5S\
s 2c^r'
- l '«- *- •- •' ‘Vt*
&A '
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Pure Solid Silver Toilet Case. 2 Pure Silver Comb,
and Mirror, in handsome case, £7 10s. Posted anywhere duty Iree,
s
A. SAUNDERS.
2 Pure Silver Q-ent.’s Brushes, £2 TOs, £3, £3 10s, in
beautiful Silk Case A useful present.
lig-j
Ladies’ or Gent.’s Travelling BOLLS, 80s ;
12s tid, 15s, 20s, £2, £2 10s.
similar 10s 6d,
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Pure Solid Silver CHILD’S SET. in Silk lined
Case, Brush, Puff Box, Rattle, and Comb, £3 3s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Four o’clock CAKE FORKS, Pure Silver-plated, i
Hard White Metal, 20s; similar style, 12s 6d
A bargain.
Ladies’ Pure Solid Silver Work Box and Jewel Case,
Handsomely Carved and Chased, £3 ss.
A. SAUNDERS
Gent’s Full-sized Bbaving Set, Silver-mounted, £3 ;
similar styles, £2los. £2lss, and £B. A nice present.
Chlld’g Silver-plated CTUP, 12* fid, 15s,
fil,. and 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladles’HAlß BRUSH,
Pure Silver Chased,
20s, 255, 80s.
Splendid value.
A. SAUNDERS;
Ladies’ MIRROR,
Pure Solid Silver, Nicely
Chased, 80s, 85s, £2,
£2 10s.
; H
1
MS V.
Ladies’ Latest PURSE and WALLET,,
with Strap, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, without
strap, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s.
s
"
»9B3jS<!
m
m
gff S
iUv/
\
y Hand Made Pure Solid Silver CIGARETTE CASE, Beautifully Chased, Extra Heavy Cases, Gold
Plated Inside, with Silk-lined Case, 80s ; other styles 355, £2, £2 10s.
Sold PENCILS, 15s, 20s, 255, 80s, £2 ; Silver 8s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s.
Iti ls little pig •• "A
§fi£»r .to
A. SAUNDERS. a .
■Child’s SPOON, Solid Silver Chased, 7s 6d. The Very Latest and Newest Designs.
A. SAUNDERS.
Cigar and Cigarette HOLDER, Pure Silver,
6s 6d and 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver GLOVE HOOK,
Is 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Swan PIN.
7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR Li HUSH, Pure Silver, in Silk-lined Case, 30s.
FREETRADB PRICES. NO ADVANCE.
k>
MAN ICC RE SET, Pure Silver Mounts, 25s ; Cheaper lines
10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Cigarette CASE. Pure SilverCor-
uui.- nud Shield, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Cigars similar, same price.
HAT PINS, Pure Solid
Silver, la 3d ; atone set,
3a 6d, 4a 6d.
Ladies’ Smelling Salt? BOT PLES
Silver Tops, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 6s 6d,
7s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
Silver-plated CALENDAR, Very Neat
17s Hd.
A. SAUNDERS
JEWELLER and. SILVERSMITH.
gggf“ A BEAUTIFUL DISPLAY OF PRESENTS,
Mind, 815 GEORGE-STREET,
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY.


Building up after
Hemorrhage
The happiest results attended the
use of Scott’s Emulsion
Nurses naturally have more extended
opportunities of watching cases than
physicians. When a nurse has a story to
tell, therefore, it is based on observations
made hour by hour. And with nurses the
note of triumph is very pleasant when the
fight is won : as for example :
“ John Street, Kilmallock,
“ 00. Limerick, Ireland.
“January 17th, 1901.
“ Dear Sirs, —I had a little patient, aged
five years, who suffered from a very delicate
chest and lung disease, and was subject to
hemorrhage of the lungs, accompanied by a
bad cough. I recommended your valuable
Scott’s Emulsion for her, and I am pleased
to say the happiest results have attended its
use. My little patient has now become a
strong and healthy child, and her lungs are
quite healed. The little one took the
Emulsion well from the first, her appetite
o‘h V/
%
NURSE KATHLEEN GIBSON.
(From a photograph.)
quickly improved, and the ultimate results
have given the greatest satisfaction. I con-
sider Scott’s Emulsion invaluable for delicate
children, and always feel pleasure in recom-
mending it, knowing that good results are
certain to follow its use. Very many of my
patients have taken Scott’s Emulsion upon
my recommendation, and the results are
invariably satisfactory.
“ Yours sincerely,
“ (Signed) Nurse Kathleen Gibson."
There are a number of points in Nurse
Gibson’s letter that apply in every home
where there is a delicate child, in every
home even where the children are “ not
quite right.’’
To begin with, “ the little one took the
Emulsion well ” —this proves Scott’s Emul-
sion has none of the nasty taste or smell of
common cod-livei oil. Then: “ good results
are certain to follow its use ” —mothers
therefore need never hesitate to give it.
Finally: 11 My little patient has now become
a strong and healthy child ” —this is the
result which Scott’s Emulsion always
secures—each mother of a delicate child
most earnestly desires.
You may perhaps wonder at this; you will
not if you consider a moment what Scott’s
E mulsion is. It contains pure cod-liver oil.
the standard medicinal food known to
physicians, blended with hypophosphites of
lime and soda, the two leading elements in
bone and tissue building. The process of
its manufacture is the result of the ex-
perience of thirty years. Many things have
been offered in its place from time to time,
but Scott’s Emulsion remains the standard
remedy of the British people.
Therefore there was nothing to wonder at
in the cure of Nurse Gibson’s little patient.
Hemorrhage of the lungs, bad cough, re-
tarded development, and all the painful
weakness after hemorrhage disappear in
taking Scott’s Emulsion; it calls back
appetite, health and strength, and these
bring happiness.
Look for the man carrying a big codfish
over his shoulder—unless he and his fish
are on the wrapper you are not buying
Scott’s Emulsion.
You can obtain a sample of Scott’s Emulsion
by sending fourpence to Scott & Bowne, Ltd.
483 Kent street, Sydney, and mentioning this
paper. All chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
ADVT
Plumbing,
Heating,
Ventilating,
Are now important
items in the build-
ing of every home. A young man thorough-
ly equipped for this work always in demand.
These three subjects combined in one course
and taught at home by correspondence ;
also Steam, Mechanical and Klectrieal
hngineering, Mechanical Drawing, etc.
The advanced subjects are taught by regular
teachers in boston’s famous technical schools.
Write for information and Handbook “ B."
American School of Correspondence, at
Armour Institute of Technology.
Sydney Address, Box 629, C.P.O.
A. <& F.
P EARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SO APMAKRRS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Notice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
LU -
The VOLCANIC
DERATING
MACHINE
ADVT
Important to Hotelkeepers
MAKE YOUR OWN
SODA WATER, LEMONADE, GINGER ALE, and
all other Drinks, with
The “||olcanic”
grated gjater machine
The Waters are Pure, Bright and Sparkling, and
the cost of making them a mere trifle.
NO SKILLED LABOR REQUIRED.
A few reasons why the “ Volcanic ” Machine is superior to all others.
1. The Valve works automatically ; no other aerating machine of this class has an Automatic Valve.
2. The Water Cylinder holds 10 gals., and has two perforated partitions inside, causing the sparkle so muoh
appreciated. Weight, 801bs. Copper, thoroughly tinned inside and outside.
3. The gas tube holds 571bs. pure gas, being much larger than the tubes supplied with other plants.
4. The Turn-over Bottling Back is made of the best metal. Thirty dozen per hour can be bottled with tit.
5. The “ VOLCANIC ” Machine is the only one of its kind erected in the leading houses in Melbourne,
including—The Grand Hotel, Parer’s Crystal Caf6, Parer’s The Duke Caf6, Young and Jackson’s, J.
Richardson’s Hotel, Bourke-st., Evans’ Covent Garden Oafd, Lucas Oaf 6, Town Hall Hotel, Sheehan’s
New Treasury Hotel, Rubira’s Caf6, Victoria Coffee Palace, Hotel Metropole, Imperial, Lucas Bros.
(Confectioners), Bath’s Hotel, Union Club, Britannia, Australian, A.N.A., City Arms, etc., etc. Also
many others in the suburbs and the leading houses in the country.
Price, £3O, with all accessories.
Smaller Machine on same principle! £2O.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —The “ VOLCANIC ” Machine was the first of its kind introduced into Australasia.
It received the Gold Medal against all competitors at the Ballarat Exhibition.
Write for Pamphlets, containing Testimonials from people who have used the machines for yean.
W. JAMES, Proprietor,
Office : 101 QUEEN BT., MELBOURNE.
Depot : 130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
KING
2h.p. to lOOh.p.
MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft to 80ft. overall.
** .
jr
Noiseless Uuderwater . . .
Exhaust. *
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
WITH THE KING ENGINE—ONE LEVER CONTROLS THE WHOLE.
J. F. MC33BRMOTT & OOMFA.OTY,
Telephone 2671. 37 MARKET STREET, SYPIXTBY.
S. FREEMAN t SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
BATHO'S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMANS PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
head office: WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
The Woman at the Washtub.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Woman at the Washtuh,
She works till fall of night;
With soap, and suds, and soda
Her hands are wrinkled white.
Her diamonds are the sparkle*
The copper-fire supplies;
Her opals are the bubbles
That from the suds arise.
The Woman at the Washtub
Has lost the charm of youth $
Her hair is rough and homely,
Her figure is uncouth ;
Her temper is like thunder,
With no one she agrees—
The children of the alley
They cling around her knees.
The Woman at the Washtub,
She too had her romance;
There was a time when lightly
Her feet flew in the dance.
Her feet were silver swallows,
Her lips were flowers of fire J
Then she was Bright and Early,
The Blossom of Desire.
O Woman at the Washtub,
And do you ever dream
Of all your days gone by in
Your aureole of steam ?
From birth till we are dying
You wash our sordid duds,
O Woman of the Washtub I
O Sister of the Suds 1
One night I saw a vision
That filled my soul with dread,
I saw a Woman washing
The grave-clothes of the dead ;
The dead were all the living,
And dry were lakes and meres,
The Woman at the Washtub
She washed them with her tears.
I saw a line with banners
Hung forth in proud array—
The banners of all battles
From Cain to Judgment Day.
And they were stiff with slaughter
And blood, from hem to hem,
And they were red with glory,
And she was washing them.
“ Who comes forth to the Judgment,
And who will doubt my plan ? ”
“I come forth to the Judgment
And for the Race of Man.
I rocked him in his cradle,
I washed him for his tomb,
I claim his soul and body.
And I will share his doom.”
VICTOR J. DALEY.
A Territorial Question.
The admitted area of N.S.W. is really 200,0005 q.
miles less than it rightfully should be. That’s a
fact which might be remembered just now, since
the area in question forms part of the Northern
Territory which S. Australia wishes to barter
away. N.S.W. was proclaimed with the 135th
deg. of E. longitude as her western boundary,
thus dividing Terra Aus-
tralia into two parts,
“ New Holland ” and
“New South Wales,” as
shown in Eig. 1 :
Things remained so for
41 years, when “ Wes-
tern Australia ” was pro-
claimed, embracing all
Australian territory not
included in N.S.W.
Fig. I.
This left the boundary of N.S.W. untouched,
until the formation of the province of S. Australia,
when the boundary of W.A. was shifted west to
the 129th deg. of E. longitude, and that of
N.S.W., from the south coast, as far north as the
Fig. II.
26th parallel of south
latitude, was marched
east to the 141st deg.
This left the political
boundaries of Australia
as in fig. 2.
Victoria’s separation did
not affect the territory
in question. The part-
ing of Queensland in 1859
brought the muddle.
Up to that date the continent consisted of
W.A., S.A., Vic., and N.S.W., and the
shape of the last-named was as shown in dia-
gram 2. West of the northern portion of the
western boundary of N.S.W., north of S.A., and
east of W.A., existed a country without name or
family. When Queensland was born, its western
boundary was fixed at
the 138th deg., neither
on the old boundary of
N.S.W. nor on a line con-
tinuous with her pre-
sent one. This left the
shaded strip of country
shown in diagram 3 to
N.S.W. and unless form-
ally abandoned, to that
State it belongs.
Fig. III.
The Northern Territory has never been pro-
claimed a separate colony, nor its boundaries
defined as such. It was simply handed over as a
piece of waste continent to S.A. in 1863 to look
after, without any reference to N.S.W. The
evidence points to the fact that the strip in
question is N.S.W. territory ; it is by far the best
third of the N.T. It contains two available
harbors in the Gulf of Carpentaria (the mouth of
the Roper river, which is navigable for ocean-
going vessels for over 60 miles; and the Mac-
arthur river, navigable for launches and lighters
for 30 miles). Off the immediate mouth of the
Macarthur lies the Sir Edward Pellew group of
islets, which affords good shelter in any wind.
The coast eountry is good cattle land and well-
watered ; there is an easy road up the Macarthur
River on to the tableland, where there is some of
the best-grassed downs country in Australia—in
ordinary years sharing fully in the copious wet
seasons of the tropics. That it once belonged to
N.S.W. is evident. The whole question seems
to hinge upon whether N.S.W. ever gave up her
right to it. It looks, anyhow, as if N.S.W. could
make trouble over the title.
ERNEST FAVENC.


Hotel
Australia
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
This beautiful hotel is fireproof from tower to
basement.
For cuisine, comfort, style, appointments, and
perfection of attendance, The Australia is the
first hotel of the Southern Hemisphere.
It is Sydney’s great summer hotel, being
situated on a lofty site, and catching every
breeze. Visitors to The Australia sleep in a cool,
pure atmosphere.
J. UEE SMITH (Late of Menzies’), Manager.
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
TO CURE SUFFERING ANIMALS.
Araost useful Veterinary Book is attached
to every bottle of Condy’s Fluid. This
Book contains instructions for curing most
of the ailments and accidents affecting
Horses, Dogs, Sheep, Cattle and Poultry.
In this Book eminent Veterinary Surgeons
recommend Condy’s Fluid as a certain
cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
Broken Knees, Grease,Thrush,and Cracked
Heels in Horses.—Scab, Foot Hot, Fly,
etc., in Sheep.—Hoove, Foul in the Foot,
Wounds and Sores in Cattle.
Condy’s Fluid is made by Condy and
Mitchell, Ltd., of 65, Goswell Road,
London, England, and is sold by all
Chemists and Stores. Beware of Local sub-
stitutes. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
Don’t shout”
" 1 hear you. I can hbar now
as well as anybody.
"•Hew?’ Oh some-
thing new —The Wilson.»
Common-sense
Drum. I've a pair in ray v
ears now. you can’t see them
they're invisible. I wouldn’ti
know I bad them in myself,
only that l hear all fight."
The Wilson Ear-Drum is 1
really a substitute for the
ADVT
ADVT
working parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally]
different from any other de-
vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon reqaest
,1. CMAIHfKS, 229-231 Collins St., ttelD.,
SPECTACLES
ADVT
DEFECTIVE
VISION, r.
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit ua
personally, we sand,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, our marvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SICHT-MEASURINC PATENT.
By its use you can Test your own sight and de-
termine for yourself the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write for it to —
H. A. BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
371 Georsre-st., Sydney, next A.J.S. Bank.
ADVT
0-0 TO HCBLiL-
KJdIiAN l> for Pretty Stamps, bub
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageiy,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Eiizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
ADVT
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List,-with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 CoHins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
ADVT
Bought, Sold & Exchanged.
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO., 88 King-sW
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The existence of national debt is a nega-
tion of national freedom.
Franchised women must keep a weather-
eye on the political deceiver. Many a man is
just now buying brilliantine to lubricate his track
to Parliament.
Last year Maoriland realised £19,040 out
of totalisator percentages. The tote might be the
saving of Australia yet if the Government
legalised it, and enacted that the. percentage
should go to a sinking fund to pay off the public
debt.
When one Watt came out from England
some years ago with a big N.T. land-grant rail-
way scheme in his breast pocket, the sturdy
Kingston, then S.A. Premier, kicked him out of
his office. Watt should try again: things have
changed in Adelaide
The way of the Q. State civil servant is to
be rough again, next year. Philp and co. say
tliey are going over the estimates in January.
The Q. civil servants would get much more sym-
pathy were it not an open secret that they con-
tinue to vote at every election for the Philp crowd
and its followers.
It is at least twelve months to next Federal
elections, but already the Boodlewraith is putting
its tenacles forth throughout Queensland. There
will be no overlapping of candidates this time if
it can be helped, and no effort will be spared to
feb a reversal of the White Australia verdict,
low they will miss the defunct Bulcock!
WHAT HAPPENED TO JONES.
No. 1.
JONES: “H'm ! Think I’ll have five lessons.”
No. 2.
JONES (one hour later): “Great Scott I How am
I going to get home? ”
N.S. W. Assembly has practically passed
the Land Boilers Inspection Bill and the Fisheries
Bill, undereach of which more Govt, billets are
provided. Under the Fisheries Bill the Com-
missioner is to receive £BOO a year, and his five
assistants fees of 15s. a sitting. The big billet
goes, of course, to an M.L.A., if he will take it at
£BOO. Both Bills are necessary, especially the
Land Boilers, but at the rate things are going,
half of N.S.W. will soon be busily engaged in-
specting the other half at the State’s expense.
Another result of Bent’s curtailment of
the working hours of Vic. railway employees,
which even he might have foreseen, is that while
the lower-paid “wages” men work five days a
week (or more) for five days’ pay, the salaried
officers get six days’ pay for five days’ work. So
what little grease is lying about is spread on the
fat pig, as usual.
Even in jingoistic Maoriland the returned
cohentingenter who has spent all his blood-money
and dissipated in riotous living the loot obtained
from plundered Boer farms, has now to rub
shoulders with the decrepit Chinaman when
applying for the food of charity to keep himself
alive. To be a returned warrior when Jingoism
is dead is a cold job.
If Mr. Barton abandons the Premiership
—and that seems very likely—there will b< a
joyful row as to the succession. Deakin,
R. E. O’Connor, Turner, Lyne, Kingston,
and Forrest are understood to “have claims.”
Nothing further is heard, by the way, of Turner’s
threatened resignation ; he seems to be at peace
again with his position and his colleagues.
Federal Postal Dept, is making an on-
slaught on some alleged newspapers. Several
circular-advertising affairs have been asked to
show cause why their names should not be re-
moved from the register, owing to their not ful-
filling the requirement of the 1901 Act, while
others are being assailed on the extraordinary
nature of the so-called “supplements ” which they
issue.
In reply to Federal postal official Scott’s
contention that it was only the morning news-
papers in Sydney which were agitating for the
free postage and free railway carriage for news-
papers, S.M. Herald manager Cook solemnly
pleaded that it was not so : among others, the
Sydney Mail proprietary (i.e., the S.M. Herald
people) also joined in the agitation. What a
humorist 1
Australia has to be grateful to the Federal
Labor Party for lopping no less than £250,000 off
the military estimates —so Minister Forrest lets
us know, though he doesn’t quite put it in that
way. And the retrenchment has been in the
direction of reducing the frill, not the efficiency
of the forces; it has come out of Hutton’s gold
lace and Jawbone Neild’s rooster-feathers and
'possum hats.
Let the Commonwealth be-
ware. The abolition of postal frank-
ing privileges is declared by Tasma-
nia’s 600 road-trusts and codlin-moth
committees to be “a shameful and
unwarranted interference with State
Rights! Moreover, it is protested
that it is a new tax on local bodies, as
a 2d. stamp must now be used when-
ever the year’s rates of £2 14s.
are remitted from Spud Hollow to
the departmental head in Hobart.
Even money-orders and postal-notes
must be paid for by the sender. This
is entirely opposed to Flyspeck tradi-
tions and practice, and Hollow Spud
feels bound to protest. Hell knows
no fury like a disappointed dead-
head.
Tom Mann's generalisation about the
Australian democracy, so far as he has been
able to understand it, is that, though on some
lines it has gained more material successes than
the old-world democracy, yet its mainspring isn’t
of such good material —its motives not so good,
its ideals not so high.
It looks bad to see in a Parliamentary
return that, of 533 workmen employed by Sydney
Harbor Trust, 379 are non-unionists and only 154
unionists. Since N.S.W., by a special Act, gives
its courts power to enforce preference to union
labor on private employers, Govt, departments
should have the grace to set a good example.
THE IDEAL PARLIAMENT.
Good old constitutional variety, on strictly safe and commercial lines,
and the one and all-the-time question of debate —“HOW CAN WE
MAKE HIM PAY?”
So far, S. Australia’s land purchases for
closer settlement have reached 98,355 acres, for
which £233,175 has been paid. Formerly the
land was in 30 holdings ; now the part already
disposed of (mostly on right-of-purchase lease) is
in 3219 holdings. Of 17 subdivisions under the
present Act 15 are returning from 3| to 5 per cent.
Perth (W.A.) Morning Herald says that
“ the continued influx of almost destitute unem-
ployed from the eastern States” is beginning to
create difficulties, but that “a vigorous policy of
public works” based on loan money will alleviate
the difficulty. What a pathetic faith this country
has in a vigorous policy of public works based on
loan-money !
N.S.W. Government has expressed its
willingness to abolish fees in public schools (it is
said the innovation will cost £60,000 annually) the
year after next. The Civil Service Superannua-
tion Fund will be exhausted by then, and about
£BO,OOO for pensions will have to be found the
year after next. That makes £140,000 extra to
pay the year after next. But what matter ? The
distant year looks green.
Writes “ Boh R.” :
More departmental idiocy. In N.S.W., annual leases
are limited in area to 1920 acres each, but there is no
limit whatever to the number any one individual can
hold. Consequently the enterprising middleman steps
in, takes up all the available leases in a district at a
rental of about 2d. per acre, often less, and in this period
of drought and disaster sublets them for 9d. and Is.
Such a state of affairs was disclosed at a sitting of the
Land Board at Tumberumba t’other day.
Defence Minister John Forrest is an
example of the effects of evil communications.
When he first took office he announced :
I am convinced that the present policy of mere pay-
ments of money to the Imperial Government in return for
naval defence furnished entirely by that Government will
not satisfy the people of Australia.
Now he barracks eagerly for the tribute scheme
by which Australia is to pay much more and get
no naval defence.
From Melb. Age :
To tell Australians, as Mr. Barton does, that it is
an act of wisdom to emasculate Australian sentiment
and tie this Commonwealth down in its Defence policy to
follow helplessly in the leading strings of the British
Admiralty, is repugnant at once to common sense, to the
teachings of history, and to that national self-respect and
independence which are in themselves of priceless value
in the evolution of racial character.
The Bulletin hopes yet to see the Age going for
an all-wool Australian Republic.
Of the 13 village settlements which fol-
lowed the “ back-to-the-land ” war-cry in South
Australian politics 11 years ago, six have been
abandoned wholly. The other seven, nearly all
with a River Murray frontage, have a total popu-
lation of 448. The happy dream of communistic
bliss and blessedness with which they started is
now buried Jeep under ten seasons of sand and
sweat. But they know a lot more about chopping
wood and growing oranges and hay than they did,
and that more than compensates.
The sweaters’ representatives in Yic. Leg.
Council have successfully delayed the re-enact-
ment of the Factories and Shops Act for another
fortnight. As soon as it was informed that the
Assembly had disagreed with its amendments in
the Continuance Bill to wipe out all wages boards
constituted since July last—nine boards in all—
the Council promptly reasserted its right to said
amendments, and adjourned for a week. This
was done notwithstanding that there was a
great amount of work on the business paper.
It was done so that the sweaters could squeeze
a few more pence out of the factory operative. On
receipt of the message from the Council intimat-
ing that it had insisted on its former amendments,
Premier Irvine, whose Ministers do not want to
see the Factories Act reinstated any more than
the sweaters’ representatives in the Council, made
a few cold, feeble remarks and moved that a free
conference between the two Houses be held to
consider the situation. The conference will pro-
bably occupy another week. No signs of ‘ ‘ hasty
legislation” about these proceedings. A cater-
pillar which started level with them would be out
of sight by now.
The Melb.
importers are
seeking to work-
up an agitation,
similar to the one
which recently
led a draggled
existence in
N.S.W., for the
abolition of the
grain duties. Vic-
toria can’t afford
to lose any re-
venue just now,
but the agitators
migifi have a hope
if they Also pro-
posed sufficient
new taxation to
fill the gap —new
taxation which
would bear heav-
ily on the import-
ing class, seeing
that the import-
ing class would
make a profit out
of the abolition
of the old taxa-
tion. But the
importers appa-
rently mean to
add the loss by
the proposd abo-
lition to the already big shortage, and their hope
is Buckley’s—or it deserves to be.
When the Factories and Shops Bill was
before Westralian Assembly there were actually
five votes cast for an amendment to the effect that
“No married woman whose husband is able to
work shall be allowed to work in any factory.”
The husband might be out of a billet, or he might
have deserted his wife years before, but it was
seriously proposed that so long as he was a live
and able-bodied citizen his wife should be
practically denied any employment in W.A.
except domestic service! She would even be
shut out of office-work, for “factory,” in the
W.A. legal sense, includes offices.
The blatant Imperialism, and general be-
littling of Australia’s national aspirations by Vic.
Governor Clarke, Admiral Beaumont and others,
at Mayor Gillott’s banquet recently, has had the
welcome effect of stirring up a strong resentment.
There has been a representative meeting in Mel-
bourne to form an Australian Defence League,
which, among other things, will “ keep a watch-
ful eye on Mr. Barton and other public men, ” on
naval matters. One speaker pertinently pointed
out that, with the £200,000 per year, which is the
proposed new naval tribute, Australia could, in 20
years, build five first-class battle-ships and man
and maintain them as they came to hand.
Thp Presbyterian conspiracy to secure the
oulk of the N.S.W. Public Service billets for the
soured and embittered race that believes in the
damnation of infants (if there is any con-
spiracy it is certainly a Presbyterian one)
is still being vigorously pursued by Parson
Dill-Macky and his clan. The information
laid before Parliament shows that, at grabbing
more than its share of public offices, the sect with
the Mac before its name and the whisky-bottle
concealed in its kilt has no rival. And Parson
Dill’s implied demand for a wholesale sacking of
Catholics from the service seems to imply that
there are still some good Calvinists unprovided for.
There was big effort on the part of a section
of the Freetrade press to organise a dingo-howl
when Premier Barton went to Maitland to speak.
But it was hard work. As Luck would have it,
Maitland constituency has scored tremendously of
late ; flourishing coal-mines have been opened up,
and the lucerne paddocks have given really golden
returns. The Maitlanders, illogically, perhaps,
but none the less naturally, put a lot of this down
to Barton, and the indications are that even if
Brunker, who has bought or sold a cow for almost
every elector in the constituency, were to stand
against him now, Barton would win. In the past
it has always been argued that Barton held his
seat only by the grace of cow-man Brunker.
When the Ballance Government intro-
duced the Lands for Settlement Act, giving
the State the power of expropriation, the
whole of the Maoriland Tory press rose to yell
“ Un-British ! ” Now, eight years after, the same
press applauds the decision of the Imperial
Government to introduce practically the same
Act into the Orange Free State and the Transvaal
in order to settle British farmers on the soil. The
moral of which is that loyal subjects shouldn’t be
worried as to whether anything is un-British or
not. If it pays it will darned soon be British. A
large portion of history is taken up with the rela-
tion of the way about a sixth of the earth, which
was at one time un-British, has become British.
The British Secretary of State for India,
it is cabled, has indignantly repudiated, as a
“ gross libel,” the assertion that the prosperity of
India has declined under British rule, and points
proudly to the fact that during the last three
years, despite the famine, the surplus revenue has
been over £8,000,000, Yet, considering that the
chief source of revenue, the land-tax, is now about
five times as heavy as it was under the old native
rulers, even a poor country might yield a surplus.
Lord George Hamilton added that though it was
a “ gross libel ” to state that the prosperity of the
Indian masses had decreased, he regretted to say
that the cultivators of the soil were sinking more
deeply into debt. Seeing that the cultivators
represent something like three-fourths of the
people, aren’t they the masses ?


Tlje Callagbai? Boot
IF YOU
HAVE NOT
YET WORN
A PAIR ♦ ♦
ORDER
TO-DAY!
You may
depend
upon
\ a perfect
fit,
perfect
comfort,
and
LONG
WEAR.
DUTY FREE
AND
POST FREE
■YY
-Tv
23/6
The CALLAGHAN Tan
WILLOW CALF Lace
BOOT, with made-to-order
appearance, whole goloshed,
fast color eyelets, in pointed
or medium' toes,
A pair sent post and duty'j
free to any address in the (
Commonwealth upon receipt i
of J
24/6
The same style of Boot, in Black
Calf, for
23/6
With these Boots you will have better appearing
and more comfortable feet, exceptionally long wear,
and Save Money. If you live at a distance our
thoroughly systematised Mail Order Department will fit
you to your perfect satisfaction, or return your money.
State size of boot worn, and shape of toes desired.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st., Sydney.
Please remit by P.O. Order or Postal Note.
Internal Troubles
CURED BY
VITADATIO
Blackwood Villa,
Grantham-street, off Union-street.
West Brunswick, Victoria,
November 1, 1901.
MR. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir, —It affords ine very great pleasure to let you
know what WEBBER’S VITADATIO has done for me.
Some four years ago I became very ill with severe pains
in the stomach, I called in a local doctor, he attended me
for some time, but could not give me relief in any way.
Hearing of VITADATIO, I thought I could not do better
than give it a trial, which I did, to the greatest satisfac-
tion of myself, my wife, and family. After taking the
second bottle I felt slightly relieved. I continued to
take the VITADATIO until I had taken (22) twenty-two
bottles. I felt as well then as ever I did in my life, and
have not been troubled with my stomach since. I will
be pleased to give anyone further information that calls
at the above address, as regards my severe illness and
cure by VITADATIO.
Yours faithfully,
CHRISTY BROWN.
For further particulars,
6. A. PALMER ,
184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The Price of Medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
DON’T MISS THIS
OPPORTUNITY, if you are suffering with WEAKENING,
NERVOUS, and DEBILITATING Diseases. Our CON-
CENTRATED BOTANIC REMEDIES will CURE YOU.
So CONFIDENT are we of this that we will send to any
sufferer a TRIAL COURSE (Free of Charge) and abide
by the RESULT. Send NOW and your ultimate CURE
is CERTAIN. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
ARTIFICIAL LIMBS
with AA marks
PATENT
RUBBER
FEET and
HANDS
ARE THE BEST
PROCURABLE.
1
Sole Agents and Manufacturers :
DENYER BROTHERS.
281 GEORGE ST.
SYDNEY,
and at cor. Lonsdale & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Catalogues and Prices on application.
Newman’s
Antiseptic Pastilles.
The Best for all Affections of the Throat.
TRY THEM. PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
S. HARRIS, M. P. S., Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Telephone 2288. 82 KING-ST., SYDNEY.
S. A. democrats are wondering whether the
next act of the Jenkins Ministry will be the
abolition of free education. Education Minister
Gordon has called upon his officers to suggest how
savings amounting to several thousands can be
effected. Gordon says he “ fears that the growing
cost of the system may lead to its breakdown”—
which means that if the Tory crowd in S.A.
Assembly repeat last session’s demand for abolition
Jenkins-Iscariot will humbly submit.
The Veterinarian.
ADVT
ADVT
'ALWAYS
CIVES YOUtf
ADVT
The
Standard
Preparations
of ... .
SALVITIS
FOR
RESTORING AND CONSERVING
THE HEALTH OF
Horses Pigs
Cattle Poultry
Sheep Dogs
SHOULD
BE TRIED !
Used by Leading Stockowners.
SALVITIS INDEX of DISEASES
To be had of Storekeepers, etc.
Direct Agents for New South Wales—
E. RICH & COfIPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
I’ll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
(Japillarine
Posted (under cover)
to an3' part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. Gd.
SOLE ABBNTB.
9
mk\m
The Result.
CRAIG & AITKEN, N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House. 683-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
PDWARD EGAN, son of James and Sarali
Egan (nee McVay), once settled in Volet
Town, and Ryneton, Vic., please communicate
with J. T. FIDLER GOORAM, Gong, Victoria.
Money awaiting you.
rTIHE mother of 'HERSEE be
A grateful to any person able to give her news
of her son, last heard of in Sydney. Address :
MRS. HERSEE,
Hythe, Rent (England).
YOUR HAIR
With Shampoos of Cuticura Soap
and Light Dressings
of Cuticura.
This treatment at once stops falling hair,
removes crusts, scales, and dandruff, soothes
irritated, itching surfaces, stimulates hair folli-
cles, supplies the roots with energy and nourish-
ment, and makes the hair grow upon a sweet,
wholesome, healthy scalp when all else fails.
MILLIONS USE CUTICURA SOAP
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing tlie scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and cliafings, in the form of baths
for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free or offensive perspi-
ration, and for all the purposes of the toilet, as well as by millions of women
in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and many sanative, antisep-
tic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women and mothers.
COMPLETE TREATMENT FOR EVERY HUMOUR,
Consisting of Cuticuka Soap, to cleanse the skin of crusts and scales, and soften the
thickened cuticle; Cuticura Ointment, to instantly allay itching, inflammation, and
irritation, and soothe and heal; and Cuticura Resolvent Tills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A Single Set is often sufficient to cure the most torturing, disfiguring, itching,
burning, and scaly skin, scalp, and blood humours, with loss of hair, when all else fails.
Sold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British Depot:
27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: 5 Rue de la Paix, Paris. Potter Drug
and Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
brated liquid Cuticura Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing 60 Closes, cuticura Pills are
alterative, antiseptic, tonic, digestive, and the purest, sweetest, most successful and
economical of blood and skin purifiers, humour cures, and tonic-digestives.
lu.
There’s SECURITY in
ARTERS
'ITTL
IVE
PILLS
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER,
i FURRED TONGUE.
i
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
They TOUGH the
Be
Small Piil. Small Dose. Small Price.
LIVER * i
Sure they are
PE
led
&!sIP
sM
Th«
cog
CORSETS
The Recognised Standard
High-Class Corsets
LATEST SPECIALTY
STRAIGHT FRONT
NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
each pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark ” on band inside, as above.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
fjs?* 1
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3XT.S.-W.
(||ontdepieteOJ|.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
fjA CASTLEREAGH ST., *7A
* SYDNEY *
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
'-Tins-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices ■ - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Robhrts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Millnr.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299—assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eouitabiy distributed.
Head Office:
*l9 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of j)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director —JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250 900 ... £350.000
Royal Bank of Queensland
" IjIMITKD. u
CAPITAL PAID-UP £451,307
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 181,859
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 56,000
£689,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Eowd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the. World.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
TDUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-L' Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties, .
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, H. Ci.vne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlank ; Brisbane, K. Wii.son ; Perth, A. W.
FARquiiAR. J. J.ALLEN, General Manager for Australia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, G-eorge Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount, of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,500,000
The trustees, executors
, AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourns.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) .. £9576 13 4
Directors : F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esp ;
C. M. Officer, Esq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manage!
MARY’S
LINIMENT
AN OLD-ESTABLISHED CURE
FOR
$
All Chest Troubles, Lumbago,
Rheumatism, Sore Throat,
Sprains, Stiff Neck, Backache
and Kindred Complaints*
WHOLESALE AGENTS-
ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Limited,
0 Connsll-street, Sydney,
AND TO BE HAD OP
ADVT
ALL CHEMISTS.
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE -)
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL J
Peregrine, Saturday, Nov. 29, 1 p.m.
Buninyong, Monday, Dec. 1, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer Early.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer Early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 29, 12 Noon
Konoowarra, Tues, Dec. 2, 5 p.m. ’
GLADSTONE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 29, 12 Noon
Peregrine, Saturday, Dec. 6,12 Noon’.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o' Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonml 8.8. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. £55 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. £3l 10s .. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
BOUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Kuddart, Parker & (Jo’s [ine
—TO— >
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
ADVT
ajxt v
LIKTE
A
via
San Francisco,
California.
FASTEST AND BEST
ROUTE
TO
ENGLAND,
Via America and Canada*
THE GREAT
/ OVERSEA
\ OVERLAND
}
HIGHWAY
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM,
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, and AMERICA.
The NEWEST, LARGEST (6000 Tons each), FASTEST,
■ and ONLY TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS engaged in
the TRANS-PACIFIC PASSENGER SERVICE from
Australia and New Zealand.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.
BURNS, PIIILP & CO., LTI)., Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY-
2HI No. 56 ACETYLENE CAS Catalogue
Lf
is the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Best
ACETYLENE CAS GENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, and
everything- in connection
. with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Gas
Generators
in daily use.
Large Stocks of the
Best
Carbide
ofCalcium
Quotations on application.
James MARTIN & CO.,
161 Clarence Street,
Nr. King-st., Sydney.
EVERY WOMAN
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new Vaginal Syringe.
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
It Cleanses Instantly.
83
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. Endorsed by Physicians.
MARVEL CO., Times Building, N.Y.
Sole Australasian Agents—
The Marvel Co. of Australia,
(Box 623 G.P.0.) CAHDEN BUILDINGS,
418 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Medical.
SANDY BLIGHT, WEAK & INFLAMED EYES,
Cured by
ROSE’S CELEBRATED
Eye Lotion.
Beware of Imitations.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
fNLORODYNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BftONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ot
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
«If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
IV. ID. L.
(NORD-DLUTSCHKR LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Wednesday after Sydney.
Interstate First Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. TANGLIN, 7th JANUARY,
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
(< ALL-RED” ROUTE
MOANA SAILS, PEC. I.
The Most Popular Steamer on the
Pacific. Connecting at Vancouver
with Canadian=Pacific Railway.
Affording an Excellence of Service
not Obtainable Elsewhere.
SALOON to LONDON, £35 to £66.
AST Illustrated* Descriptive Pamphlets on TES
Application.
Following Sailings, Dec. 29, Jan. 26
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
cs
[VEGETABLE]
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
Charcoal
Speedily cures Acidity, Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, &c. It
destroys all disease germs, and,absorbing all impuri*
ties in the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards off all attacks of Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BRAGG’S P RE CHARCOAL POWDER in
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
i <pleasant to take). Sold by all Chemist> and Stores.
Havi-ig had corn-faints o' the injury done by other
I preparations, oleaso see that each Bottle or Tin bears
| the Trade Markin monogram, on the wrapper.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Innamincka,
Friday, November 28.
S.S. Marloo,
Saturday, December 6.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Allinga,Friday, Nov. 28.
S.S. Innamineka, Saturday,
December 6.
S.S. Warrego, Sat., Dec. 13.
liest and Cheapest ltoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
Till? POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOVVN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Maokay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON- Twice weekly, via Bris-
bane, Maryborough, and Bundaberg.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via BrU
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA
via MELBOURNE—Fortnightly.
P« sseni/er Accommodation, A t,tendance anil
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. 11. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Agents, 1(1 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
P. AND o.
COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £/7
Ditto Ditto Return, £O6 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific,
Messageries Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAIL), will be dispatched MONTHLY, a 3 follows : -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED KATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydnev.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching' at Queensland Ports and Port: Darwin,
Leave Sydn ,-y.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
Dassenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Through bookings to points in Canada, United States
of America and Europe at special rates.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
Lowest Fares and Freights.
For further information apply to
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
SMOKE
■ ■
<#°
&
ADVT
GBD
ADVT
ADVT
INSIST
Largest Depot:
231 CLAR€NC€ STR€€T,
SYDNEY.
on having this Brand
and no other,


Free for Asking.
WRITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to Proprietor, Box 135, G.P.0., Adelaide, S.A.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with tOO Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet size, photos.,
£s , P. 0.0. or stamps.
s. RECKNACEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Germany.
INSTEAD OF BETTING on fast horses, bet
on the fast Indigo Blue Serges, at Charles Gilbert’s,
the leading tailor. Latest Summer Start-
ing’ Prices, viz., from 50s. Suit to measure,
carriage paid to any address in the Commonwealth.
A Soft thing. No Scratchings. Write for
Catalogue, Patterns and Self-measurement Forms,
Queen-street, Brisbane, and compare his values with any
in the Southern States. You will be backing a sure
thing.
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Address —L.D.
RUPTURE ™
Throw ftwaj
your Truss.
without
operation or pain,
no detention from work, or depend*
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., ENG.,
Cor Russell & Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
DRUNK
ENNESS
CURED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
iPPSee my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free,
W. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng..
68 Russell St., Melbourne,
Hearne’s Bronchitis
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain o*
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com*
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYIt TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
•Mr. Hearne. —
“ Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of Lo ndon, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much'interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS* TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“ JAMES ASTBURY."
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
«i used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
tiding for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M‘DONALD, Trinkey, via
the medicine yet; but lam sending
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine. —A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good.it having quickly cured us both. —R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.-(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous. —F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” •
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.—JOHN C.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
“ Last year l suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—ll. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
“Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBItOW, Enoch's
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
"The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“ Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Oollins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
41 Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
"PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony- &
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
‘‘69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by flrstV'oat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of ordef.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
"We are, faithfully yours,
4 THOMASON, CIIATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
"Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot Qgj ce: jj 0 First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not, obtainable Locally.
The SMELTING & REFINING COTof AUSTRALIA
10 O1» Limited. WORKS: DiLFTO, Lal&e Illawarra <56 MILES FROM SYDNEY)
SMELTERS
AND
REFINERS
SILVER
LEAD
BULLION
ADVT
MAKERS OF
S. Co. of Australia
AND
“ ILL AW AREA’ 1
BRANDS OF
SOFT LEAD.
Assay Offices, Genera! Offices, Store and Sulphuric Chamber.
Highest Price paid for GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, and JEWELLERS’ SWEEP, &c. Prompt Ca;h Settlement on Agreement of Asm]/.
For all information regarding Rates, apply to HEAD OFFICE, DAPTO. \y HOYT Manager.
.A— B. Jbtucltler & CUo., 4=o P*itt Street, Sydney, Forwarding -A.gen.tß,
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
BengeFs Food’
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
For Infants, Inva ids, and the Aged. Delicious. Nutritiv*. and l igestibie.
Benger s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere
Extracts from Private
Letters.
“My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
to find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Benger’s
Food ’ everywhere.”
“If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEM PE RJO EM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
**k Fool and his Money are soon parted/*
SpM ov. r , yo„ , ry „, d
o, Bio.vc.es, b». the world is .roiein^^
RED BIRD BICYCLES
rest their qualifications on the “say-so’’of salesmen^
this is why they are chosen by such judges as Don Walke^d* by merit, and
Rfan/’lio i? Sm oj. I m %m a ■
Branches in every State.
” MUU reicinin,
GQQLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King-st.. City.
Keep the Fountain Pure.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are founded
on the principle that all diseases are caused by an
impure condition of the blood. When the bowels
are constipated, the liver becomes inactive, and
the kidneys are unable to act as a proper filter;
this forces the impurities in the blood throughout
the system, causing biliousness, indigestion,
rheumatism, and, in fact, most of the ills from
which people suffer. If you are sick, begin to-day
taking Dr Morse’s Indian Root Pills, which
are guaranteed to be a permanent cure for all
liver and kidney disorders. Packed in amber
bottles, with the full name blown thereon.*
In their new premises, Phillip-street, Circular
Quay, Messrs. John Walker and Sons, Kilmarnock,
Scotland, have established a new departure. The firm
import their celebrated whisky in bulk in large quantities,
and keep a numerous staff busily engaged bottling the
liquor under the personal supervision of their experts.
This will ensure to Australian consumers an excellence
of quality never before attainable.*
The Australian Commission Agency Company,
101 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE,
Communicates with
“TATTERSALL,” HOBART.
A LL THE First and Second p r j zes for p or t Wines
were taken by at Adelaide Wine Show, October, 1902,
Hardy’s Adelaide Wines
Cellars: 15 CROSVENOR ST., SYDNEY, and at ADELAIDE and MELBOURNE.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
When Carbine won Melbourne Cup in 1890 the
prize for the first horse was worth £10,230, with £2OOO for
the second and £lOOO for the third—total £13,230. That
was the highest figure ever reached. When The Grafter
won the Cup in ’9B his owner only collected £2774 • and
£5OO for the second horse and £250 for the third made
the total £3524. Things have improved since then, and
The Victory’s win was worth £4588, while the three
placed horses gathered in £6OBB among them. When
Banker won the Cup in ’63 his win only brought the
owner £490, while the prize for the second horse was £2O.
The owner of the third horse, in those days, only got the
honor of the thing for his reward
* * * .
Profit on IVlclb. Cup meeting was only £6OOO,
wlfhh^l/^hp 6 PH St f year ’, Th , e Vlc - Railway Department
withheld the 6d. for each railway ticket, which used to
shortage V ' R '°'’ whlCh accounts for at least £lOOO of the
• * • •
Champion two-year-old display of the season
was at the Tyro Stakes, Randwick, Saturday. Cashier
won through the skilful riding of jockey Barden. This
horse was bred by S. Hordern at Wilton Park, by Gossoon
(imp.) from Hebe (imp.) by Pursebearer. Other hand-
some ones were Brumlo by Bill of Portland from Cooya
by Nordenfeldt, Cake Walk, Cherson and Carmenita.
• • • .
Those who were associated with the Sydney nag
Merton Steel, who broke his leg in Melbourne Cup and
nad to be shot, thought him an absolute “cert.” for the
race. I* or months he had been specially prepared, and
was never sick or sorry or suffered the slightest set back,
.trainer, Albert Cornwall, says in his 35 years’ experience,
bar Cap-a-pie, Merton Steel was the only horse he ever
had that properly stood a thorough Melbourne Cup
preparation. Had he come off Mo. would have got a
staggerer, for he was backed to win a big fortune
mainly because most of the bejewelled ones wouldn’t
stand hnn at any price, and many overlaid the nag in
consequence. Cornwall worked his colt into the required
hx by running him in races less than his distance and
over lengthy journeys on the quiet. A dav or two
before the race Merton Steel showed a ljjm. gallop that
equalled Revenue’s last year, and made him an even-
money chance. Also said that Merton Steel could get
over the Caulfield stretch every bit as fast as Wakeful.
“1.3 T*” ® florfc ln company was with Acrasia, who re-
ceived 151bs. over and above their Cup weights, and was
beaten easily. Yet Acrasia ran fourth in the race.
*** • ,
Judged by the opening showofN.S.W. Trotting
Club, that sport has come to stay in Sydney. Despite
big counter attraction of Kensington pony meet, a large
crowd turned up andprovided a profit, which, considering
heavy preliminary expenditure and the fact that cham-
pion trotter britz had been specially brought down from
the country to exhibit, augurs promisingly. Among the
winners was Mr. “ Bob ” Beckett’s Cast-Off—a nag bred
in Bathurst) district, and raced there as Green Stuff
so named through having previously pulled a vegetable-
cart along for months. Contrast the game in M.L.,
where the N.Z. Metropolitan Club, a week or so since,
gave awiiy 63os°vs. for an afternoon’s sport, and then
raked in a big surplus.
* * • •
A queer paragraph, sent to The Bulletin by a
woman Had a pleasant afternoon outside Moorefield
(Sydney) racecourse. Mingled with the unwashed, and
with another woman saw the races through the fence
We hadn t any wealth, therefore backed no winners in-
dulged in no curry (threepence a plate, vinegar free) nor
in a lovely, amber-colored drink, exhibited in large glass
jars with floating* lumps of ice ; but contented ourselves
with studying humanity. One ancient lady was the
proud possessor of one buck tooth, which she medita-
tively tapped with a florin, staring intently the while at
a bookmaker (one of many carrying on their business
with a fence for a background). At last bookie wearied
of the insistent stare—‘Gim’me that two bob,’ he said •
so she backed something. When last I saw her she was
sitting in the gutter regretting. It was a blazing after-
noon, so we took refuge between races in the R.C. Church
opposite. A portly priest came from the vestry. ‘Good
afternoon; do you ladies wish to confess?’ ‘Not this
afternoon, Father,’ I answered, trying to look as if I were
sometimes taken that way. Then the saddling bell rang
and I rushed again to the fence.” b
• • • *
’ s „ Melbourne Cup sweeps having proved
that the Postal Act hampers without suppressing, there
is a cry for “ further measures.” As usual, the pious folk
voice the demand, though it is the book-making interest
which formulates it. As a matter of cold fact the
amount of money now passing through the hands of
Moses of the Book is not sufficient to keep him in the
style to which he has accustomed himself ; and, to main-
tain the champagne and the diamonds, and the truffled
turkey, and the motor car—to say nothing of the lady in
sealskin the bookies nowadays have to prey upon one
another as well as upon the general public. That’s bad
business. If the money that is devoted to other
forms of gambling—“Tatt.’s,” chief of all—could be
diverted into the bookies’ hands (and levied on to the
extent of 50 or 60 per cent., not 10 per cent, as “Tatt ”
chiirges)—and that would be the inevitable result of
effective suppression of the sweeps—there would be a fat
time for Ikey Mo. The public will gamble. If it can
gamble at a general loss of 10 percent, with “Tatt.” it
will do so ; if it is forced to gamble at a general loss of
50 per cent, with the-“ books,” it will do so. Therein is
the reason why the Birds of Prey invoke the Birds of
Pray against “Tattersall.” ’
* * * •
Bad biz ! Teddy Knight sold his speedy prad
Durham, to go to W.A., and immediately planked the
price (£300) on Durham for Grong Grong Welter at Caul-
The nag ran fourth, so Teddy practically parted
with it for nothing.
* • * .
That awful horse, T.M.S., goes to S’Africa,
the present-day receptacle of all Australian failures,
human and equine.
* * • *
The jockey Barden boom continues. At Rand-
wick on Saturday he scored three wins ; his beating of
First Consul, on Lady Grafton, in the Salisbury Stakes
was a fine display of horsemanship. Although the crowd
gave him a great reception in recognition of his skill it
had a sore grin on its face at the time, as Lady Grafton’s
win was a good thing for Ikey Mo.
* * * *
Maoriland bred Nelson-Moonga six-year-old nag
Seahorse 11. won the 6 furlong November Handicap at
Warwick (Eng,). Spencer Gollan, the owner, bought the
horse in Maoriland after he’d scored some successes. In
11 starts as a two-year-old Seahorse gathered in Auckland
Handicap,. Criterion Handicap, and Snorts Handicap. At
three years, of nine starts, Hawk ns Bay Guineas, Spring
Handicap, M.L. Cup, Canterbury Derby and Cup and
Auckland Plate fell to him. In Australia he was disap-
pointing ; second to Kinglike in Caulfield Eclipse Stakes
was his best performance.
* • • „
Sydney City Tatts born of a rupture between
big Sydney Tatts. and Kensington people, reports a big
profit on the year, despite the fact that many of its
opulent Ikeys were drawn away to the bigger concern bv
the reduced admission fee. The City crowd has secured
premises right opposite the other for £6500, and the rival
gangs will now be able to sit at the front windows
and make noses at each other over the whisky.
Owner (Mr. G. 0. Stead) gave 325g5. for
Cruciform as a yearling, and that nag has since won
£5630 in prize money alone—£lsls came when she was
2yrs. old, £3765 at 3yrs., and the balance subsequently.
* * * •
“Ciro”: With all the talk about Sandow,
Pagel and the rest, not one professional strong man has
ever laid claim to the authenticated feats of Melb.
amateur Tom Waldron, the red-headed Irish policeman
who died at Carlton a couple of years back. On one
occasion, while stationed at Port Melbourne, Waldron
went aboard a vessel berthed at the pier, and, for the
amusement of the crew, picked up two large pieces of
machinery lying on the deck and carried them, one in
each hand, to the opposite taffrail. An interested spec-
tator had the masses of iron weighed, and each tipped
the beam at scwt. Can either Sandow or Pagel
show a feat to compare with this? Veteran Prof. Miller
once expressed the opinion that Waldron was absolutely
the strongest man in the world, and it would seem as if
the Prof.’s opinion was well-based.
• * * *
‘‘ Jones ”: The three-card swindle described by
‘ Bosco” (B. 8/11/’O2) may be new to this unsophisticated
country, but it is none the less very ancient elsewhere. I
remember it because it was the first and last time I was
‘ had ”by the three-card man. It was at Aintree (Eng.),
in the early ’Bo’s, and I had “ wagged ” it to see Liverpool
Unprun. I had spotted a horse bearing my own name,
and the coincidence moved me to put my only half-crown
thereon. I was looking round for the longest price when
I stumbled across aforesaid spieler, and the thing seemed
a dead cert. ; although he professed to be unwilling
to wager less than £l, he condescended to accept my
half-crown—and that was the last I saw of it. Naturally
as I had then no money to put on him, John Jones must
needs go and win the Cup-at 7 to 1, I think. I can
never understand why a thoroughly accomplished card
juggler wants to swindle. He never offers more than
even money, and, as the theoretical odds are 2 to 1 he
makes 50 per cent, profit on the deal. Isn’t that enough ?
M.L. is thb x,nly section of tiiis continent that
won t stand the slightest attempt at a serious boxing
match, and yet that country was the birth-place of some
of the best fighters the world has known—Bob Fitz-
simmons, Billy Murphy, Han Creedon, Tom Tracev,
Harry Laing and co. to wit. Recently a couple of small
fights were brought off without interference, and then
the clever Sydney lightweight, Bob Turner, and Ross were
matched. The police swooped down and arrested them
both, after letting matters go till the eleventh hour almost,
with the result that the pair were “ bound over ” M L
has changed much since Paddy Slavin fought Maori Laing
and Richardson there, and since Jem Mace toured the
islands, and Billy Murphy engaged in those several fierce
struggles that opened the door for him in Sydney and the
rest of the world. The most, and best, of Fitzsimmons’
early battles took place in Sydney.
* * * *
Bob Turner-Jack M'Gowan fight at Sydney
Gaiety A. 0., Monday night, for Australasian lightweight
supremacy, drew 1600 people, and a substantial margin
over the £l5O purse given. Two better-prepared pugs
never faced each other, nor two more evenly matched in
point of poundage. Turner in his pelt, M’Gowan in a
flannel sweater, each scaled 9.3£. Turner, yet only 19
showed remarkably good condition, and splendid develop-
ment about the shoulders and arms, all acquired since
his last ring appearance. His pink-tinted flesh, which
S f' Ved M<^' th . health > was striking
contrast to M’Gowan’s pallid, though not un-
healthy - looking, body. Turner forced the game,
assuming the offensive, a new experience for M’Gowan
who mostly has to chase his men. With right-hand glove
well up over the left jaw as a fend for M’Gowan’s dan-
gerous right, Turner jabbed and hooked magnificently on
IfXn of/’ u " der the hea *t. and in the stomach with
* ° ften Turner notched heaps of points before
MGowan scored one, and many a time, had Turner
used at least a fair right, he could have finished
M Gowan right off; but Turner’s left is his one
offensive weapon-the other is only occasionX
brought to bear in a half-hearted manner. The struggle
bristled with exciting situations, and the fierceness and
vim were sustained throughout. M’Gowan was favorite
at 5 to 2 and 3 to 1 on, and up to the 12th round, though
much outpointed, his backers were offering 6 to 4, feeling
certain that his knock-out punch must get home : but it
didn t. Turner was too careful. The referee’s decision
Turner wins!” brought a storm of roof-lifting applause.
‘‘9 Id Timor”; Smashing of lightweight Jack
M Gowan by Bob Turner, Monday night, was a matter of
predestination. Jack has been fighting 14 or 15 years
almost constantly—sometimes twice a month- and but
J®* 1 vitality and the care he takes of himself
could never have lasted so long. Since March list hi
has got through 15 battles, preparing for which must
have taxed his system seriously, hence it wasn’t surpris-
-1?". .shaped stale-looking and showed less** of
that “ginger- which characterised him aforetime
He should have a few months spell or give the game up
as he is now over 30, and can retire with a record of
fights and successes that few of the world’s bruisers own
Turner is a natural fighter, plucky, and brimful of com*
W T i hat ri - ht hand as useful to him as the
left he dbe easily the world’s champion in his class and
fortunes could be risked on his intelligent bu dogism
Sgh«ng. CaPaClty f ° r punishment > a » d scrupulously
* * * *
The slogging-out of Alf Heckenberg bv Ted
Murphy, at Sydney Golden Gate Athletic Club Saturdiv
night, was a gory illustration of the solemn’fact t h-it
more than hitting power is required to make a fighter
Heckenberg was very nervous and "sneer.
and sent him to the floor with an awful bang Ifter thar
annih y £°° all s ° rts of care that Heckenberg
another home on him, and while the woodcutter
his windmill arms, the Irishman sledgehammered him
unmercifully, till his tail fell right down ed the fiX
was over. If Heckenberg could be taught to keep cool
cultivate gnt, how to hit, where to hit, and when *to <rpt
I s
o( useless force
* * * ,
The heavyweight pug. championship is iustnow
occasioning some mild excitement. Reason for the heeT
spilling is that Billy M’Call, the holder of the title has
£25 up with one paper, and Dan Creedon has posted !
similar sum with another for a £3OO side bet and Jim
Scanlan has chipped in with -Pino -mH « ana Jlm
iSigtssfSl
Doherty, quite untrained waUoped SS*
M‘ °all and C -^on a atee S h U a b d
A* Ss,Srr„ i ir,° , ; d
leaving Sydney he recited “Thp JJv' * . us ,, before
His next
The most notable of the various attempts on
the British Channel swimming-record this year was that
of a Sicilian, who got to the scene of action by natural
means. That is, he first swam across to Italy, and then
walked the rest of the way across Europe 1 He deserved
better luck than to fail at the Calais to Dover swim.
• * * *
At Pyrmont, Saturday, Dick Cavill, using his
famous “crawl” stroke, covered 100 yards in what four
watches made from 58 3-5 to 59 3-ssecs., the greatest
speed known in the world till the same man did it in
68 3-ssec. in London a few months ago. N.S.W. 300yds.
premiership to be decided at Bondi to-day (Saturday),
looks a moral for Dick unless some unknown David brings
along new world’s figures.
* • ■ *
Winner (W. H. Cooper) of Australasian single-
handed bowling premiership in Melbourne t’other day is
the old Vic. cricketer, who was one of the 1884 Australian
combination in England. Noteworthy that one or two
Victorian bowls scribes very early in the tourney tipped
Cooper to win, which says much for his superiority, as
the element of fluke is with bowls far more than any
other pastime.
* * • •
“ B.B.” : There seems to be only one idea as to
what cricket consists of —judging by the way the batting
department is being bolstered up. Therein will come
great trouble for the N.S.W. selection committee in the
forthcoming “big” matches. Last season there were
many bowlers who made an effort to hold up that end of
the game ; but, this year, everyone of them seems to
have taken to Sandowism or some other department of
the game, and others have relinquished trundling for
batting, in which they are ignominious failures. Marsh,
the Sydney bowler, who trundled brilliantly last season,
and who was excluded from “big” cricket on the color
line and sensational reports, seems to have gone “ off,”
and as no new men have shown “ form ” worth speaking
about, there is every possibility that recruits will have to
come in from the country districts—which is so objec-
tionable to city cricketers. The selection committee
seems to lose sight of the fact that N.S.W.’s best bowlers
—M‘Kibbin, Turner, Evans, Howell, etc.-were men
brought to Sydney and who showed such brilliancy that
their selection was inevitable.
* » • *
Something like a record was put up last
season in England by a, professional cricketer named
White, when he knocked up 2000 runs, took 250 wickets,
made 12 centuries (including two 200’s), got all 10
wickets twice, and performed the hat-trick six times 1
Whew ! 1
• * • •
The inter-State cricket fixture difficulty between
N.S.W. and S.A. has again been patched up, and the
matches will be played. The new terms are that N.S.W.
offers to make good any loss S.A. may incur over the two
matches during the season. A definite agreement is
needed between the two associations, which will hold
good for a term of years ; as it is, S.A. is mostly dependent
on N.S.W. chanty, since if the Wheatfielders failed to
send a team in rep. inter-State cricket they would pro-
bably be debarred from selection for an Australian
Eleven. Then there would be a rumpus !
* * • •
N.S.W. Cricket Association, in the matter of
umpires for inter-State matches, proposes that Vic. and S.A.
Associations submit three names, and the visiting cap-
tain will choose one and the opposing team another It
is an original idea, well worth a trial.
* * • *
Yet another departure ! Clem. Hill, the S.A.
“ star ” batsman, intends to go to S’Africa at the end of
the present season—unless Australia makes it worth his
while to stay.
* * * •
Hugh Trumble, back in Melbourne, says that
the ram that fell towards the finish of the fourth test-
match (at Manchester) made the wicket easy for the last
two English batsmen, but the waiting whilst the rain
cleared off had destroyed the nerve of Tate. He hit
wildly at the only two balls he got, fluked the one for a
fourer,” and missed the other by the proverbial mile
whilst it turned into his stumps. Then Tate stared
pathetically at his devastated wicket, and the Australians
threw up their hats.
• » * * /
Fresh rounds were entered upon in Sydney
first grade cricket, Saturday. Wickets and weather were
good, but scores were not high, and Sydney’s 299 for 6
wickets against Central Cumberland was the best. Of
these, 19-stone H. Deery made 72, Duff 63, and Cuffe 60.
Orlebe lost 5 for 276 to Paddington, Duggan making 92 not
out, and Buckle, also not out, 62. Waverley made 252
against ’Varsity, 100 of which were contributed by Charlie
Gregory. At close, ’Varsity had 3 down for 61. Nine of
North Sydney’s wickets brought 139, to Burwood’s 114
Redfern-Leichhardt match is still very doubtful, with
Redfern’s total at 188, and latter 4 for 72. Of Redfern’s
runs, 71 were made by Foster, and 8 of 9 of that side’s
wickets which fell to bowlers were secured by Young at
a cost of 76—which was easily the best howling feat of
the day. B
* • * *
Sydney Homing Pigeon Society’s race from
Ararat (Vic.), a bee-line of 520 miles, was the longest yet
traversed by Australian homers. The birds were liberated
at 5 a.m., Friday morning, and at 1.15 next day, 22 hours
later, John Ward’s pigeon reached Balmain. If the bird
spent the whole 22 hours on the wing, it meant a speed of
685 yards per minute. It was the same bird which last
year did the 384 miles.between Arcadia (Vic.) and Sydney
The new record is well up with those of Germany and
England, where pigeon-homing is very popular.
Scheps, winner of*Sydney Wheel Race, himself
built the machine that won the brilliantly-contested mile.
He is the son of an Adelaide gunsmith, and has only been
wheeling about a year.
* * • *
Those responsible for the importation of the
dusky bike champion, Major Taylor, have not considered
whether or not he can qualify sufficiently to pass the
e(lucati° na l test ”of the Federal Aliens Restriction law
What a howl would arise if he were excluded '
* * * »'
Don Walker’s appropriation of the Inter-
national Half-mile Scratch Race at Melbourne bike sports
Saturday, was generally anticipated, though the big
smash, through Jackson touching Lewis’ wheel made it
easier. Apparently Walker is going to scoop all the
scratch races of the Australian season. Since Oct 17
every one contested in N.S.W., S.A., and Victoria has
gone to him. In five weeks Walker has won nearly £2OO
prize money, and there’s a big harvest ahead during the
next three Saturdays. The odds are Walker will garner
them all, despite that others-—notably Walne —apveav to
be getting closer to him. Increasing age has made
Walker more brilliant; nine years ago he was on scratch
in front-rank company, but did not show anything like
the form he exhibits now.
• • * *
Don Walker’s sensational sprints call for grit of
no mean order, yet his friends tell that though he might
swim all day if he felt (or fancied he did) a supporting
hand under his. chest, he would sink straight away did ha
know or think it was not there : they’ve tried him.
* * * «
The success of men mounted on Dunlop Tyres
at the recent Cycling Carnival was really phenomenal, as
practically every race was won with their aid. “ Donlop ”
Walker, Seheps, Walne, Megson, Gordon, all demonstrated
the speed qualities of them ; and the competition record
made in the Sydney Wheel Race, of one mile in 1.54
will take a deal of shifting. The Dunlop co. is now
experimenting with a new vulcanised racing tyre, which,
as regards lightness, will eclipse anything hitherto seen
on this market, and speed-merchants are anxiously await-
ing its issue, which, however, will not take place until
the tests of durability are quite completed.*
* * • *
After a long tussle, a 601 b. cod was landed,
t’other day, from Yanko Creek, Wangaratta, Yic. The
“ old man ” had been seen feeding along the shallows for
weeks before, and, though far from being the largest,
was the gamest fish hooked in the vicinity of late years 1
Melbourne Age journalist, Fox, who was
humorless enough to carry his personal appear-
ance into a Victorian law court and ask a jury to
say whether he really-had “a face like dirty fat ”
(as politician Trenwith had, more or less seriously,
alleged in the course of excited polemics), was
awarded one shilling damages on Tuesday.
Rev. J. Kinghorn (Pres.), of Bathurst, in
a sermon on the N.S. W. sectarian row:—
He did not know who was to blame, but he would say
that the thing: chat had cursed the Church was its
dabbling- in politics. He did not think that any Christian
preacher or teacher should be dragged into politics. The
Church of God should never be allowed to enter political
matters. It has been stated that the Rev. Dill-Macky
would visit Bathurst in the interest of the Protestant
Defence Association. He (the preacher) had been asked
to assist in the matter, but had refused to have anything
to do with it. . . . He would rather see every priest and
clergyman banished from the land, and every church
razed to the ground, than see religious battle.
Sydney and Melbourne have now got a
“Lord ” Mayor apiece, just as The Bulletin may
have a Lord Office Boy instead of a plain boy.
The only probable result is that there will be a
greater tendency than before to elect a rich and
probably useless person to the office on the ground
that the title has to be lived up to. Living up to
a title is mostly a matter of vittles and drink.
Glasgow contrives to be a go-ahead municipality
despite its “ Lord ” Provost, but it is an exception.
Postmaster-General Drake had a good
reception last week from the Laborites and
Radicals of Brisbane. Drake’s happiest sally on
the evening of his meeting was a quotation from
his chief enemy, the Brisbane Telegraph. The
Telegraph, when denouncing Drake for his firm-
ness in dealing with the attempted imposition of
Messrs. Cobb and Co., had said that if Cobb and
Co. had approached the State Govt, with a re-
quest for a subsidy in their alleged trouble, there
would simply have been “a meeting between
Cobb and Co.’s manager, the Treasurer, and a
bank manager—and the whole thing would have
been arranged without more ado.” This state-
ment was so characteristic of Philpocrat methods,
and so ludicrous in' the face of the subsequent
Cobb and Co. fiasco, that the audience simply
roared with laughter. -t
Melbourne discovered a leper t’other day.
Ah Fong, a Chinese gardener. The patient had
only arrived from the Flowery Land about two
years ago. Lepers have been rather rare of late,
except in speckled Queensland.
Rush of cases to N.S.W. Arbitration
Court is so great that the formation of a second
court for a couple of years is suggested ; after two
years, it is thought, industrial relations will be in
a more settled state' and the great pressure of
work will cease.
In Victoria the Government has once more
decided to make advances to farmers to buy seed-
wheat. And yet Victoria is the State in which
Chief Justice Madden is allowed to go to agricul-
tural shows and orate on the absolute and mani-
fest necessity of leaving the poor farmer alone.
According to Madden, C.J., on one memorable
occasion, the farmers only wanted the State to
stand out of their daylight. That is but a few
months ago, and thousands of pounds have since
been spent in making roads, railways, and water
works for the farmers who want to be left alone.
All these things have been done at the urgent
request of said farmers. Now, Government is to
spend a few more thousands in providing seed-
wheat for the farmers, which is another act of
fussy State interference. In 1896 the State made
similar advances to the farmers, and lost heavily.


ICE!
ICE!
ICE!
The hot stifling summer flays are here.
Why not get a Refrigerator, and use Ice ?
Keeps all perishable Food in good con-
dition. Makes the distressing heat bear-
able. The timely use of Ice often saves life.
Our Ice is made from distilled water-'fi
as hard and as clear as crystal.
Sent in special transport boxes to any
railway town where not represented by
agencies. SEND FOR A PRICE LIST *
■:= E 6« ■ - '
N.S.W. FresH Food (EX Ice Co, Ltd., Sydney
NUfIBER TWELVE.
Open
Saturday
Afternoons.
That is the number of our New Racing: Modelj and !> the latest combination of those
qualities that go for success. At the late Carnival, the No. 12 MODEL
MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLE
was very successful, gaining nearly all the prizes and filling nearly all the places. It seems
superfluous to say: “ Ride a ‘ MASSEY 1 if you want to catch the judge's eye."
CANADA CYCLE & HOTOR CO., Ltd.,
357 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches in Every State.
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
BUY A
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel . .
Hammerless Gun.
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept n stock by the Largest G-un Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company,
Head Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 10s. to £ ib
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free
McLEAM BROS. & RIGG, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OP INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER and
A PEN CARBON BOOK
makes a complete outfit with
which any
MAN,
WOMAN OR
CHILD
can write a letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy without
leaving the slightest sign of copy-
ing on the original.
1
%
„„„ keeps a duplicate of bills you send out, of orders, receipts, bank checks. It leaves no vague
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original.
indisputable*record” thGre Can be n ° appeaL 16 wiu Bave ‘W house or family much money by its
There is no man or woman, professional or not, who would not at some time or other find
THE PEN CARBON LETTER BOOK
For fullest particulars, price, etc., write to the sole A True and Valued Friend.
Affents for Australasia; E. RICH & CO. LTD., SYDNEY BRISBANE
"OOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
x ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King: Street Coffee Palace,”
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor—GEO. W. ELLIS.
SHRRPSHOOTINg
ADVT
For Sport and War.
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/• nett.;
Posted, 1/2.
The best 1/- worth ever Published.
■ F you wish to get good work and value
■ you should purchase W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Qreener’s Representative).
SOAPS dubbed Shaving
are rarely
Shaving Soaps.
In a Class by Themselves
The World’s Standard Shaving Soaps
Williams’ Barber’s Bar
and
Williams’ Shaving Stick
f “BARBER’S BAR”
While the natural Ally
Of the Deft Artist
And his Trusty Blade
Is also the Ideal Soap
For Home Use
Fits your Birthday Mug
Once tried, never changed
“Won’t Dry on the Face.”
Send a Penny Stamp and we will post you Williams'
Changing Face Puzzle. Can you explain it ?
J. B. WILLIAMS CO., Glastonbury, Conn., U.S.A.;
and at 232 Clarenee-st., Sydney.
ADVT
By Special
Appointment.
&. H. SMITH and SON,
TROPICAL HELMET
with special air-space,
in white drill , dee. and
in all colors in felt.
10/6 and 12/6
Sat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers,
302 George-st. Sydney
Sombrero Soft Felt Hats,
All Shades and Sizes.
Soft Felt Hombergs.
In all Sizes and Colors.
Straw Hats. Stetson Hats.
Polo Caps, Military and Naval
Caps, Livery Hats, Clerical Silk
Hats, Etc., Made to Okdeb
The Federal Govt, has received word that
Mr. Chamberlain has declined to “advise” His
Majesty to veto the Pacific Islands Laborers Act,
by which Tommy Tanna is to be cleared out of
Queensland by the end of 1907. Chamberlain
declines on the ground that the Act doesn’t involve
any Imperial interest, and that the British Govt,
is not prepared to take upon itself the functions of
a Court of Appeal from the Parliament of a self-
governing State. Which, besides being a polite
snub for Premier Philp; shows that Mr. Chamber-
lain begins to know something of Australian
sentiment.
The compiling of the rolls of N.S. W. female
voters has brought some interesting facts to light.
In the Sydney district, for instance, the rolls
show a total number of 225,153 votes out of which
only 102,424 are males. The females are in
the majority by 20,305. In some individual
electorates this excess of female voters over male
is quite astonishing; in one case—that of the
suburb of Burwood—out of a total 5554 votes, the
females are in a majority of 728. Where is that
alleged female who refused to be put on the rolls ?
“Malle”: Be appointment of a Public
Defender, with control of detectives, etc., to hunt
up evidence for accused persons:
A very real grievance exists in the country districts,
where a man may be committed for trial to a town a
couple of hundred miles away. The police will see he
gets to the court all right, but if he be acquitted, he is
left to get home as best he may. Knew a case of a
bullocky, who was arrested over a cattle-matter, and
committed to a town 90 miles off. The case fell
through, and accused, who had been prevented from
going for his usual wool-carting, and had sold his saddle-
horse to meet expenses, was dead-broke, and had to
stump the 90 miles home.
There is a widespread idea that govern-
ments were made to hand out large sums of
money, and people bring actions against them
that they would hardly dream of bringing against
private individuals on similar grounds. For in-
stance, a lady last week started to sue the Vic-
torian Railway Department for £lOOO as compen-
sation for the loss of an eye “ caused by severe
physical strain incurred in opening a door” at
Flinders-street (Melbourne) station when she
quitted the train on the morning of the 23rd
April. She dropped the case when it was half
through, having remembered that on the morning
of 23rd April she went straight into town on
leaving the train, without waiting to open any
door, therefore she must have lost her eye opening
that door at a different day or hour. Still it was
a curious case.
The discovery of Dolores by Sydney and
Melbourne after the advent of Melba shows that
the judgment of the discerning public occasion-
ally requires the illumination of a Guiding Light.
No such thing, however, is required to convince
any man with a thirst that D.C.L. is the best
brand of whisky. Also that popular spirit
strengthens the judgment in all mundane affairs.
Little wonder then, that D.C.L. is swallowed
with, enthusiasm by the Wise in business, in
politics and in poetry—especially politics and
poetry.*
Piles and their Cure.—The pamphlet by
Albert Sharp, “Piles and How to Cure Them,”
without operation, by the latest Cannalin treat-
ment, sent free on application to 257 George-st.,
Sydney, or F. Buckhurst, Chemist, Melbourne,
or W. Wastell, Chemist, Adelaide.*
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing- to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throug-hout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
J2T" BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. H
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
>•
3S
Do
You
Understand
the advantages of fitting our DUNLOF-KELIiY
Solid
Rubber
* pjjlj
CARRIAGE
WM
Tyres,
to your Buggy, Dogcart, or Brougham ?
They stop all noise and vibration,
Double the life of your vehicle,
and render driving a luxury.
Fitted to new or second-hand wheels, from £4 13s. 6d. per set,
and upwards.
Illustrated Catalogue and Price List
posted upon receipt of your name and
address, at
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus., Ltd.,
* . 150 Clan nce-st., Sydney.
And at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane and Christchurch, N.Z.
A Decaying Profession.
Some burglars having broken into the house of
a poor man were diligently engaged ransacking
his shelves and drawers when the owner suddenly
awoke and sat upright in bed. “ Hunt away, my
men, hunt away,” he said. “I don’t know what
you expect to find here by this dim light. For my
Eart, I can find nothing of value in the day.” And
aving made these remarks he resumed his
slumbers and the disgusted burglars withdrew.
The fact is, the profession of which Mr. Bill Sikes
was so conspicuous an ornament is a decaying one,
and the art of birglary is in a fair way to be lost.
There are more reasons for this than we have time
now to inquire into, but possibly one of them may
be the counter attraction of selling something
warranted to do that which it will not do. Even
as there are no friends like old friends, so there is
no remedy the equal of Mother Seigel’s Curative
Syrup with its thirty-three years of world-wide
renown. Just give two minutes’ attention to the
testimony of Mr. J. Armitage, the licensed
carrier, of Schrader-street, Adelaide, S.A., and
his lt deserves it. Mr. Armitage writes,
on the 25th of March, 1902 : —“As both myself
and my wife have derived great benefit from the
use of Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup, it is only
just that I should thank you for it and give a few
particulars which may direct others, now suffering
as we formerly did, where to look for relief and
cure. My wife was afflicted for years with indiges-
tion. She tried a variety of mixtures, pills, &c.,
and at different times was treated by several
doctors, but without avail. Frequently she was
quite unable to attend to her household affairs.
About three years ago a neighbour recommended
her to try Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup, with
the result that she was cured within six weeks.
As for myself, I was subject to asthma and
rheumatism for a long period. Often have I lain
in bed for days suffering torture through the latter
complaint. The asthma, too, was very distressing,
especially in damp or cold weather. I spent
much money, and swallowed a lot of physic, in the
endeavour to free myself of these ailments; but
it was all to no purpose. At last it occurred to
me that possibly the medicine which had cured
my wife might benefit me; and, having resolved to
make the experiment, I discovered that it was
just what I required. It speedily enabled me to
breathe with ease.and comfort, as well as subdu-
ing the rheumatism. About six bottles of the
Syrup cured me. My wife and I always have a
bottle of it in the house, and by taking a few doses
of it every week our health is never a source of
anxiety to us.”


E 1
F
S'
TWO
British
Productions
Have HO equal
in the World.
I
OGDEN’S
gjfflpg
O) L, d
°rX*
Beware of.lmitalions
lff.
British made
Briti sb^Labor
|
I
Our Photo. Albums are Free.
All you have to do is to get 100 of the cards which are packed with the Guinea Gold, Otto de Rose, or Silver Veil Cigarettes, bring them to ns, and
we will hand you a pretty Photo. Album made especially to hold our cards. If you live out of town mail the cards to the undermentioned address and we will
send the Album by return (post free).
OGBEI’S, LIMITED, 45 York-street, Sydney.
“ On the whole, romping in Society is un-
satisfactory ; it is not enough for a man, and too
much for a woman.”- —Lady Mai'VcK in Mavriott
Watson's new novel.
The “Electric Post” idea is making the
British P.0, officials move uneasily in their sleep.
Berlin has admittedly the most efficient post and
telegraph service in the world, and there they have
a system of quarter-hour pneumatic tube services
(for letters) from every suburb within five miles of
the central office and an hourly delivery from
7 a.m. to 6 p.m. The letters are posted in the
ordinary pillar-box and thence by the tube which
runs underground, thus avoiding weather-difficul-
ties. The total cost of transmission is slightly
over one penny. Imagine a resident of Bondi or
Coogee knowing that a letter posted in those
suburbs at, say, 4.15 p.m. would be delivered in
George-st. city at 5.10 p.m. ! Also in every
German town of importance Hughes’ type-writing
telegraph instrument is employed and it is, as
regards rapidity and accuracy, as far ahead of the
Morse system as the Morse is of the old single-
needle affair.
“J.A.C.”: He absurd inconsistencies in
Vic. Licensing Act (B., 15/ll/’02). It is quito
true that while the law compels any publican to
supply boarders and bona-fide travellers with
whatever refreshment they may require on Sun-
days, it at the same time debars him from opening
his bar for the purpose. I remember, some years
ago, a Bendigo hotel-keeper being fined for going
into his bar on a Sunday to turn on his gas-meter,
although at the time there was nobody else in the
house but his wife.
The Bulletin Reciter has been taken by
Bill and Jim straight to their warm hearts, and
already its contents have gladdened thousands of
audiences all over Australia. Most of the best
and most famous Bulletin recitation-pieces are
included in this fine collection—price 5s. post-
free from Bulletin office.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion V If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILD. Because
others have failed is no reason for not how being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, l/l$d. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
NERVOUSNESS
ADVT
If you want to feel young again, to have your sluggish circu-
lation stimulated, your nerves made strong, and your body filled
with renewed health, you can get this and more, too, by wearing
DR. AUSTIN’S ELECTRIC BELT.
It cures Nervous Disorders, Weak Back, Lumbago, Rheumatism
Liver, Kidney and Bowel Troubles, “ Come-and-Go ” Pains, and
that Tired Keeling after every other treatment has failed.
My Belt gives a soothing, w rm, strengthening and delightful
current of Electricity into the afflicted nerves, muscles and system
while you sleep. It stops the pain, and life again becomes worth
living.
It never blisters or burns the body, because it is constructed to
give Electricity in a proper way.
WHEN CURED.
Any honest person who will secure me can have my Belt and
pay when cured. Failure to cure costs you nothing. I take the
risk of cure.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —If you have a Belt which has failed, or
burns and blisters, I will allow you for it in exchange for mine.
CALL TO-DAY and test my Belt fiee. No charge for consultation.
free book. —lf you cannot call, write for my beautifully-illustrated Medical Book and
Letters from Cured Patients, sent, sealed, FREE. Write to-day.
Dr. J. M. Austin Electric Go.,
39 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
ADVT
HERR RASSMUSSEN
will guarantee to cure Nervous Weak-
ness, Blood Diseases, Piles, Rheuma-
tism, Corpulency, Liver and Kidney
Troubles. He will send his Book Free.
AH correspondence will be held
confidential.
WEAK, NERVOUS MEN, WHY SUFFER
'HEN you can be
thousand sufferers
is dearest to it—V* -
give his skilled advice personally to all patrons of his reined
communicate with him without delay, no matter where you live.
Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d., posted.
Treatment by Post a Speciality. Pamphlet sent Free.
Blood and Skin Diseases
Blood Disorders, Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Gravel, Stone in the Bladder, and Blood
Impurities guaranteed to be removed and permanently cured by
ALF ALINE BLOOD PILLS. Boxes, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d. posted.
Anaemic Women
suffering from Wasting Diseases, Pale, Lifeless, and; otherwise affected, should at once communicate with HERR
RASSMUSSEN. His lifelong experience is at their service, and his
ALF ALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS will cure them. Boxes, 6s; Courses, 235. 6d.
LIVER and KIDNEY TROUBLES cured at once by the ALFALtNE LIVER and KiDNEY PILLS, Boxes Is.
LIVER and KIDNEY troubles, c EUWI AT i C PILLS are World-famed, and his PILE POWDERS never fail ; 6s.
nov hnv
The ALFALINE REMEDIES can only beobtained from . .
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office
547 George St., Sydney,
BRISBANE: 309 Queen St.
MELBOURNE; 150 Bourke St.
AND HIS BRANCHES AS FOLLOW—
ADELAIDE: 15 Pulteney St. W.A., PERTH: 481 Hay St.
N Z. : 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington. KALGOORLIE : 111 Hannan St,
FREMANTLE r 117 High St-
BOULDER CITY; Piesse St,


THE HOTELKEEPERS’ FRIEND,
p_
Soda Water Id. per doz.
Lemonade and Ginger Ale, 3d, per doz.
Hotelkeepers make their own supplies of
Aerated Waters.
No skilled labor required. Anyone can learn to
operate the machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
“ To the Daylesford Mineral Water Co.
“ Dear Sirs,—The machine purchased from you is per-
fection. Tiif, Stuff turned out is Splendid. It is the best
speculation I have entered into since I joined the Licensed
Victuallers.—Geo. Nioholls, Royal Hotel, Swan Hill.
Mr. P. Kennedy, Ooolgardie, says:—“Profits saved by
making my own supplies of Aerated Waters with the
Machine i>ay the rent of my hotel.”
Mr. Lewis, Heidelberg, Victoria, says “ I have made
thousands of dozens of the best Aerated Waters with the
Machine, and it has not required sixpence worth of
repairs. No Hotelkeeper should be without one of
them.”
Mr. W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W.,
says:—“lt is the greatest money maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.”
Mr. Burk, Yalgo, W.A., says:—“Since getting one of
your Machines, and making our own soft stuff, I have
saved its price ten times over.”
W. H. Jones, Peak Hill, W.A., says:—“Machine great
success.”
E. Davis, Peak Hill, W.A., says :—“ Cannot speak too
highly of effectiveness and simplicity.”
G. N. Murdoch, Abbotts, W.A., says:—“Value of
Machine indisputable ; quality and cheapness of stuff
unquestionable.”
T. 11. Williams, Mossman, Queensland,says :—“Highly
successful, and recommend to all hotelkeepers.”
J. S. Davidson, Bundaberg, Queensland,says :—“Great
saving compared to previous cost of stock.”
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many small
centres of population, where a deeply-felt want exists for
a good quality of Aerated Waters. Observe the Profits.
Call and see these machines, or write for circular describ-
ng them, also Price List. Prices Reduced.
Daylesford Hepburn Mineral Water Co-
-407 COLLINS-STREET, MELBOURNE.
ADVT
MEN
If
you
are
suffering from Yarico
cele, Atrophy, Weak
ness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and packing), and
I will send
MEDICINE
by
post
FREE
FOR YOUR INDIVIDUAL. CASE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which give back
strength of body and brain—not a free prescription
dodge, but a trial of my wonderful remedy free for
the asking.
Professor H. READ,
165 Collins St/eet, Melbourne.
ornamental hair.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers 4. Wigmakers.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
IEiT" Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
EVERY MAN IS
More or less interested in the curative powers of
MEDICAL GALVANISM and the proper method of
applying- this wonderful agent. Before purchasing-
Electric Belts or Batteries send for our valuable FREE
BOOK entitled “THE MODERN TREATMENT OF
DISEASE BY ELECTRICITY.” It will tell you what
you ought to know, and may save you time, money
and disappointment. Address—
ARTHUR HALE & SON,
44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
V
Weals.
.IVLOIX WOMEN
Can obtain strength and vigor
by the use of DR. PIERCE’S
ELECTRIC BELT." A Won-
derful Restorative. The most
Scientific Electrical Appliance
ever made. Drugs do not cure.
! This Belt does. Send stamp (any sort)
for “Booklkt No. 2.” iO Zj* Write to-day:
„ - . Pierce Electric Co., 206 Post St.
San Francisco,U. S. A. , W. H. Soul & Co., Agts. Sydney
Mention
this
Paper.
BALSAM OF HOREHOUND
BALSAM
OLD’S BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
ARNOLD’S BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
For Coughs and Colds.
Every Dose Effective.
Will Cure when Others Fail.
For Pain in the Side.
Best for Influenza.
In Bronchitis and Loss of Voice.
Whooping Cough and Croup.
For Children, Safe and Sure.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.— L.D.l. 3 00 Collins St., Melbourne
WOOL. PRODUCE. CRAIN
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
ACT AS SET.T.IJJG- BROEEIRS OKTI,!?.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (?) PER CENT.
'(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
will be 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb : 2s. Gd. per Bale.
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
. under ... ... ... Is. Gd. per Bale.
WAREHOUSING
Perfect System of Weighing 1 . Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Compviy
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
AGENTS FOR McDOU GALE’S SHEEP DIP.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney
(Corner of
Clarence Street)
19, SI, 23 King Street, Mlellbou.rne.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES ...
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pumps, Turbine Fans.
(Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
Messrs. GREENWOOD & BATLEY LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors, Pumps, etc.
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
iionia+nH Cables, Wires, Tapes, etc.
ADVT
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
cure-alls.
Vigor and Strength J",*" ” ho
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 1886, has so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your fellow man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
Seels: tlie Tru.tla., it; coats KTotliing!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, cor. Russell & Collins Sts,, Melbourne.
ADVT
ADVT
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easv ; Is 6d post
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d. ‘
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards illus
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted’
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk Is 9d
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is ’
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor Is
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille Is 3d
Secret History of the Court of England, 1 6 post free’
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted’
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history) Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
HOJV(E CyCLOPEPIA
BMBRACINB
THE POPULAR “ PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Ohromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
How TO Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevassk’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs
Is 3d post free. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. S appho Is.’
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid’
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big: Book
Catalogue—post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney,
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
OF INTEREST to MEN
D have been cured of weakness and De-
, oy a simple and inexpensive remedy, and will
be pleased to send the means of cure to all sufferers. I
do th 's entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
street, Sydney.
FiyiD
Rtcomw
Jf^PlOEjTio^
ervous
P| A|D’Q
GOUT !( RHEUMATIC
FILLS.
The Great English Remedy fox
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO & NEURALGIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and a’-e certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 220,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. lid. and 2s. Od.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
ASTHMA CURE
GHIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
For Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
6RIMAULT & Co., Paris. Sold by all Chemists,
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdestke & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestke & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all •
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Health,
Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
OS RX CORO'S
t.sSt^ cE °f u \ F g-,
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. 1 Heard’a Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales —
F. H. Faulding & Co., 16 O’Ccnnell St., Sydney.
CEO
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
[Completely overcome DeadnesS
and Head Noises, no matter of
'how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. $
address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St.j Melbourne*
DEAF
ADVT


A Word to Women.
With the advent of Summer comes that weary,
worn-out feeling. • Women more particularly are
sufferers in this respect, owing partly to their
confinement in the house, and not getting plenty
of fresh air, and owing a great deal to the delicate
constitution of the female organs, which give way
under the strain of work and worry. To all
women who are feeling “done up” at this time
of the year, a course of Bile Beans will prove of
immense benefit. They brace up and give tone to
the various organs, thus strengthening the whole
system.
As an illustration of this, Mrs. S. A. Masters,
of 18 Jarrett-st., Leichhardt, Sydney, says:—“l
have found your Bile Beans are an excellent
remedy for a disordered liver. At times I have
been so bad with indigestion, that I did not know
what to eat. My appetite was considerably im-
paired and although at night I have felt like
having a good sleep, I could not do so, and in
consequence, felt completely done up during the
day, and suffered agony with sick and nervous
headaches. I was induced to take your medicine
by seeing an advertisement wherein Bile Beans
had cured a fellow sufferer, and can now say from
my own experience, that Bile Beans are a perfect
remedy for sick headache, loss of appetite, sleep-
lessness and those innumerable symptoms of a
sick liver. I would now use no other medicine,
and always keep a box at hand for an emergency.”
Bile Beans have gained universal praise as an
undoubted specific for biliousness, indigestion,
constipation, piles, bad blood, pimples and all
skin eruptions, debility, nervousness, anaemia,
female weaknesses, sleeplessness, headache, and a
host of other ailments that owe their origin to
defective bile flow, assimilation and digestion.
Bile Beans are obtainable from all medicine
vendors, price Is. l£d or 2s. 9d large box (contains
three times small size) or direct from the Head
Australasian depot, the Bile Beans Manufacturing
Co., 39 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
REFORM WITHOUT REVOLUTION.—The
great and particular merit of Hunyadi Janos is
that it. relieves without discomfort, in other
words, it effects reform without revolution. This
is because it is the best and safest natural
aperient.*
Prom Melbourne Age— one of the reasons
why the Victorian railways don’t pay:—
In a certain office at the Flinders-st. railway-station
there may be seen by the curious a very long list of
names of ladies who have at various times begged the
booking clerks to let them have, without payment,
tickets to various places—chiefly Flemington and Sun-
° Ul T' They have forgotten their purses, or lost them, or
spent their last penny on anew pair of gloves, and various
other reasons. They will call the very next day, and re-
fund the money without fail. But there the names and
addresses lie, with the amount of the borrowed money
written opposite ; and there appears no prospect of these
small debts ever being wiped out. The authorities are
considering the advisability of publishing this list in the
newspapers at an early date.
Probably, in many cases, the ladies have given
wrong names, and if the Government publishes
them its reward will be a crop of libel actions.
The best thing Minister Bent can do is to write the
lot off as a bad debt, and ukase that in future the
lady who has forgotten her purse shall be shown
into a private room, and shall there leave a suffi-
oitmt amount of underclothing as security.
Just what you. need
for
Indigestion
Chamberlain’s
Stomach and
Liver Tablets.
Pt*lee, 1/6
Indigestion results from taking too much
food or some article of food of difficult
digestion. There is a feeling of distress and
sometimes severe cramps of the stomach,
nausea, vomiting, and sometimes purging,
but most often constipation.
The vomiting is beneficial as it relieves, the
stomach of the indigestible food, and when
the bowels remain normal and there is no
Cramping pains of the stomach, no medicine
whatever is required. All that is needed is
to let the stomach rest, take no food until
hungry, and then only a small amount of
milk toast, until the stomach is strong enough
to digest other food which should be taken
sparingly at first. When there is constipa-
tion, two of Chamberlain’s Stomach
and Liver Tablets should be taken to
move the bowels, and one tablet each follow-
ing day for three or four days until the
bowels become regular. If Chamberlain’s
Stomach and Liver Tablets act two freely
on the bowels, take only one tablet every
other day.
NOTE.—If not able to obtain Chamber*
lain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets locally,
a package will be sent, post paid, upon
receipt of 1/6, or six packets for 8/-, by
addressing Chamberlain Medicine Co., 64
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. 124
Amusements.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Holb.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of BUND HOLT’S
Great Drury Lane Sporting Spectacle,
THE DERBY WINNER.
SAT. NEXT, NOV. 29, THE WHITE HEATHER.
POPULAR PRICES—3s., 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSEN3, Bus. Manager.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
SOLE LESSEE .. .. Mr. JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
Manager Mr. Frank Weathersby.
SPECIAL MATINEE and LAST PERFORMANCE of
UNCLE TOM’S CABIN,
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, .NOVEMBER 29, at 2.15.
SATURDAY NIGHT,
The Sparkling Musical Comedy,
A TRIP TO CHICAGO.
John P. Sheridan as Johanna Murphy,
The Irish Mother-in-Law.
FIRST “CHICAGO” MATINEE, WED., DEO. 3.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES—3s., 25., Is. 6d., & Is.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessees .. .. Henry Lee and J. G. Rial.
SUB-LESSEE and MANAGER.' WILLIAM ANDERSON.
LAST 2 NIGHTS of
The Latest London Dramatic Novelty,
THE WORST WOMAN IN LONDON.
Complete and Instantaneous Success,
MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN as FRANCES VERE.
Supported by William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Co.
Popular Prices—3s, 2s, Is 6(1, & Is. Plan at Elvy’s. Early
Door Tickets, White Rose Confectionery Shop, Pitt-street.
A. Middleton, Bus. Mangr. ; Michael Joseph, Treas.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2,
A BRILLIANT and EMPHATIC SUCCESS,
IP I WJE3TIK 3ESZI TNT Gr.
Mr. CUYLER HASTINGS as FRANCOIS VILLON.
Other Characters by Mr. Williamson’s
SPECIALLY ORGANISED DRAMATIC COMPANY.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Prices as Usual.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
WilHe SCHENCK BROTHERS Charlie
J. W. WINTON, the Popular Entertainer.
THE GREAT HARBECKS, THE NAWNS, WILTON
BROS., NEVA CARR-GLYNN, ELSIE M'LACHLAN,
CLARENCE SISTERS, FLORRIE GALLIMORE, WILL
WOOD, ERNEST SULLIVAN, EILEEN BOYD.
ICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.m.
PAUL CINQUEVALLI.
WALLACE BROWNLOW.
THE MONTROSE TROUPE.
WILL WHITBURN. FRED. POPLAR. KITTY WACER.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. '@4 Plan at Allan’s.
pITZGERALD BROS.’
HUGE CIRCUS & MENAGERIE,
IN THEIR OWN PERMANENT BUILDING,
JUST ACROSS PRINCE’S BRIDGE, ST. KILDA RD., MELB.
Orowded Nightly in Every Portion of the Vast
Amphitheatre.
THE MARVEL-HERR PAG EL,
Lifts a Ton, a Lion, a Horse and Rider, and carries a full-
grown Horse up a Ladder 20ft. high.
First Production in Australia of a Stupendous Spectacu-
lar Sensation. A Steeplechase over Big Jumps, Hedges,
and through a Veritable River. The Most Exciting,
Sensational and Novel Performance Ever Witnessed in
the Southern Hemisphere.
PRICES—4s., 35., 25., and One Shilling. Children half-
price to all parts (except the pit).
FRANK JONES, Representative.
RINCEBS’B THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
THURSDAY and FRIDAY, NOV. 27 and 28,
Mr. Geo. Musgrove’s New English Comedy Company.
in the Great Romantic Drama,
MOTHS.
SAT., NOV. 29, LAST EVENING of MAOAME MELBA in
ORAND OPERA.
USUAL PRICES. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne. ”
Lessee Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee arid Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hendy. Treas., Julius Grant.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S Famous Dramatio Organisation
FRIDAY, NOV. 28, LAST NIGHT of
SATURDAY NIGHT IN LONDON.
SAT., NOV. 29, First Production in Melbourne
of the Entirely New and Original Drama,
A LONDON ARAB.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan's.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
Mr. J. 0. Williamson’s ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
the Original and Most Popular Japanese Opera,
THE IiJKAPO.
Prices as Usual. TS4 Box Plan at Allan's.
bijou Theatre, Melbourne. "
Lessee and Manager .. William F. Hawtrey.
Business Manager .. Leonard Davis.
LAST NIGHTS of the THE HAWTREY COMEDY CO.
in
A MESSAGE FROM MARS.
SAT., NOV. 29, LITTLE LORD FAUNTLEROY.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. Matinee every Wednesday.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’ and The Grand.
R. BENTLEY YOUNG, Representative.
JOWN HALL, MELBOU R N E.
Under the Direction of F. VERT.
MDLLE.
ANTONIA DOLORES,
Assisted by
MR. CLARANCE NEWELL.
NEXT RECITAL—
THURSDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 27.
LAST RECITAL—
SATURDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 29.
PLAN AT ALLAN’S, m &3T PRICES.—Ss., 35., 2s.
L NEVIN TAIT, Manager.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage
ADVT
i And by
t Special Appointment
Mrs, William Green and Miss Green
Professors of Ballroom Danc:n ', Deportment, Crace.'ul
Carriage, Etiquette and Calisthenio Exercises.
The Latest Society Skirt Dances. Classes arranged for at
private residences. Colleges and Convents attended.
Classes in all suburbs. Prospectus—
“ Ellerslie,” 100 Nicholson-st., Fitzroy.
NOVEL AND INTERESTING.
ACETYLENE CAS BUTTONHOLE LAMPS
Nickel-plated. Each charge gives powerful light
for, one hour. 1s 6d each, postage 2d extra.
Cheapest House for Calcium Carbide.
StF Send for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS., 236 Pitt Street, Sydney,
and 422 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Rescued
From Drink
by a new discovery, odorless and tasteless, which any lady
can give in tea, coffee or food. It does its work so silently
and surely that while the devoted wife, sister or daughter
looks on, the drunkard is reclaimed, even against his will
and without his knowledge or co-operation. Send name
and address to THE EUCRASY CO., 62 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W., and they will send you booklet and
particulars free. t
THE GREAT
BENDIGO
EXHIBITION
ART UNION
To be drawn at Bendigo on
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24.
TOTAL PRIZES, £2400
£1 000 for is.
000 for is.
PRIZES TO THE DOAHH
VALUE OF RX'fUU DISTRIBUTED
the full value of the first prize, less 10 per cent. ; for £250
worth of the second prize, and for £l5O of the third prize
pictures. The winners of the fourth to the twelfth prizes
will have the option of selecting their own pictures.
LAST WEEKS OF SALE.
Secure your Tickets Early from all Stores, Newsagents,
and Stationers throughout Australia.
GEO. V. ALLEN,
General Secretary,
17 Garraway’s Chambers, Queen’s Walk,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE, opp. Town HalL
Hfrftotis*
i
Reader, why not he able to tine the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all .the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain ; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book f< rm a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistio engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I wi.l send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a c ance of
a life-time. . Address—
ADVT
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
LARGEST SALE OP ANY DENTIFRICE.
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC
Tooth Powder.
A unique and efficacious preparation for
cleansing the teeth and strengthening the gums.
F. C. CALYERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
* V
*
*
•r
f^fS
%
V ’“"'v
■ '
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
HUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Head aches & all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTEK’S
INEBVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
M As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I have
’used it successfully for years." —Prof. W. Wilson, M.D.
TJie BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDEI L’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
DyapepsLa, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints,
Of all Stores.
THE OWL
CUT-
RATE
DRUG €O.,
Manufacturing and
Dispensing Chemists*
Especial attention is devoted to the treatment of Heart, Kidney, and Liver Troubles. Testimonials from all
parts of Australia.
SOLE AGENTS FOR-
risrtrcrm'c trtf A Concentrated, Vitalising-, NERVE, BRAIN, MUSCLE, and
In* LIcUKAOII b XVC lHVlgOrAtUr* BBO OI> STIMULANT. We still offer £lOO for any case we
cannot cure. PRICE, 7s. 6d. PER BOTTLE, 3 BOTTLES £l. P ost Free to any Part of Australia.
HWtiHr TMtc RESTORE THE WEAK, REFRESH THE STRONG, REVIVE THE DEPRESSED,
ucu.ru. ricito* AOT UKE A CHARM. Regular Price, One Guinea. Cut Price, 10s., Post Free.
A2T Every Person should wear one of these Belts.
A trial is all we ask. Its merits as a curative agant will then be recognised.
Price, 3s. 6d. per box, or 3 for 10s. ; postage 6d. ctxtra.
FITS, EPILEP. —A Sure Cure f. r Epilepsy in all its forms. .Write- for particulars.
Pyramid Pile Cure.
Note the
Address
The Owl Cut=Rate Drug Co.,
227 ELIZABETH STREET,
Opposite Htyde Park, SYDNEY-
C. P. FINCHAM, Chemist.
At Poverty Point.
Geo. Mitsgrove’s mistake in asking three and two
guineas for first and second choice of seats for the scrappy
Melba opera performances was made much bigger by the
unwisdom of his booking arrangements. He fixed the
box-plan at the Princess’s Theatre, instead of at Allan’s
or Glen’s, as is usual, and he allotted three days to the
“ rush ” for 3-guinea seats, and another three days for the
2- “ rush.” The result was that, at the end of six
days, everybody knew that the demand for Melt a
tickets had been very mild and casual, consequently the
public didn’t rush madly for 1-guinea tickets.
Then came the announcement that the back-stalls
as well- as amphitheatre seats would be sold for
10s. 6d. and reserved. The managerial tactics
had proved a failure. Now, if Musgrove had been
content to fix his maximum at 2 guineas and allot only
one day each to the “ first choosers ” he might have had a
fairly excited demand for 1-guinea seats on the second
day and thereafter. To quote 3 guineas as the top-
price for a programme of operatic selections—scenes
without a chorus—and to set apart a full half-week for
the sale of seats at that figure was far too big a “bluff”
for a public that had already put up its guineas for six
Melba concerts. A well-chosen “ bluff” deserves success.
Managers have to grow rich by business management
rather than by the mere virtues of their show. But this
3- bluff was ill-chosen.
The Fitzgeralds got out a very toney programme— i.e.,
J. J. Miller produced it for them—as a souvenir of their
Melba night at the Circus. It had an introductory note
which pleased the star visitor, though the adjectives
might have been drawn somewhat milder: “ Two
thoroughbred Australians welcome and honor the greatest
of all living singers, and feel proud that she is a native of
the greatest, most glorious, and grandest country under
the sun.” For this unrivalled land of milk and honey its
“ Greatest Daughter” recently made a private appeal for
financial'assistance, whereupon its grandest politicians
upraised their glorious hands in horror, crying “Hus-s-sh!
Not a word ! We are about to borrow more money in the
usual national, patriotic way, and you mustn’t spoil our
credit. Thank you so much—but, really, you mustn’t
spoil our credit.” - ’
Strange, coincidence that a revival of “Little Lord
Fauntleroy ” should be talked about only a week or two
after the death of Ada Willoughby. Given the necessary
cash and encouragement luckless Ada would have pro-
duced the play what time she was running the little
Queen’s Theatre ( nei Victoria Hall) in Melbourne. It was
advertised at the bottom of her play-bill as a forthcoming
event. Previous to that “Little Lord Fauntleroy” had
been a dead letter for many years.
Cuyler Hastings’ Sherlock Holmes is an excellent stage
conception, but it is by no means Gonan Doyle’s Sherlock
Holmes. The original was impassive, reticent, imperturb-
able ; our American visitor shows us a man given to
garrulity and outbursts of passion. The Moriarty organ-
isation is,/Of course, taken from Gaboriau’s “Slaves of
Paris”—Moriarty himself being a resurrected Mascarot-
Tantaine-Martin-Rigal. The, geist of the powerful
Uaboriau sensation is felt throughout the play. When
Prince, the genial burglar, dropping his tools, exclaims,
in consternation, “Wot! Is Sherlock ’Olmes in this?
Then let me out! ”we are reminded of Dr. Hortebize, one
of the blackmailing gang in “ The Slaves,” who, on hear-
ing Lecoq’s name, in a choked voice says, “Stop! If
that Lecoq’s mixed up in this, 1 withdraw Yes,
really, I withdraw.” Sherlock Holmes, who stands for
virtue, is successful as his prototype was successful, but
Alascarot is drawn with more brains than Lecoq, just
as Moriarty, at Sydney Royal, could easily have run rings
round his bombastic rival.
Every now and then an imaginative paragraphist states
that old friend Louis Lohr has wearied of his breezy
ruralism down at Anderson’s Inlet (Vic.), and meditates
a return to theatrical life. But, as a matter of fact, the
genial L.J.L. has gone “ nap ” on his Gippsland hotel,
which is now a quite imposing structure with all the
comforts of civilisation laid on. Lohr’s new tar-room,
detached from the main building, is the biggest thing of
its kind in that quarter of Victoria, and his mobs of Sun-
day customers from the coal-mining townships and
thereabouts are bona-fide travellers who can drink with-
out the option of a fine. And the fishing in the Inlet!
The fish are so numerous and various that they tear one
another off the hook. Lohr never knows what he has
actually caught until it is landed in the yacht. If a
perch takes the bait in the first instance, it is more than
likely to be supplanted by a rock-cod, or a vast
flathead before the line is hauled up. The Inlet was
always a great place for fish stories, and Lohr is going to
publish some of the best in advt. book form. He writes
in a tone of settled contentment. The climate is good,
business is better, and quietude best of all.
For the first time in its life the watch-house in Little
Bourke (Lilly Buk) St., Melbourne, has gone through a
Saturday and Sunday without taking in a lodger, and the
policeman in charge thinks that the ancient terrors of
Little Bourke-street’s name are departing. But he can’t
account for the improvement. The reform is probably
due to Williamson’s conversion of Her Majesty’s into a
fashionable theatre. Thousands of decent people who
never thought of walking up “ Little Bourke ” in the old
days now make it their general thoroughfare to and fro
Her Majesty’s pit and amphitheatre doors. The street i 3
becoming respectable by force of example.
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co.,
Ltd., reports for week ended 22nd Nov. having offered a
fair selection of wool, mostly small growers’ clips.
Buyers were plentiful and competition good. Good
merinos were very firm, while wasty and burry sorts sold
in sellers’ favor. Comebacks and crossbreds showed an
ndvance of 10 per cent, on the last sale. Highest price
for greasy was IOJd. At all sales during past week the
market showed good strength. Sixth and final series of
London sales for this year will open on 24th ; 101,000
bales are available, an exceptionally small quantity,
which indicates that both merinos and crossbreds will
rise materially. Sheepskins sold well. Although tallow
supplies show signs of decreasing the demand shrinks
fister, and quotations are now about ss. below last
week’s. Light-weight hides were not much in demand,
but medium and heavy-weights were taken decidedly In
sellers’ favor. All sundries were firm last week, with title
exception of horsehair, which was slightly weaker.


II
SSMBiNaiSi * .i ' .-SI
m
bytoe^bßS
mm
s>*
mm
: :;
w
/
II
H
1
jiff :
'
H
f
S<-=
11
w
m
ii
mm
m
ir
Th WALLACE
[' 1
SYDNEY
v: v
liiiiiiilliiii
”, h g-
IHELE
- Y
mmm
CURED
TO
IVT OTHING wrecks a man’s life more surely or quickly than derange-
JLI ments of the vital organs. A weak man is
A DRONE UPON SOCIETY
lacking that natural strength which is the keynote to commercial Success
aifd domestic happiness. His deplorable condition haunts him day and
night; it is T . never absent. . ;
I . ' ' ' ’ . , ...
Thousands of then who have been restored to Health and Vigor
have applied to us after years of bad treatment
*
isg /
By Quacks and Charlatans,
They have had years of intense suffering, they had given up hope
we havb cured theipt.
given up hope, but
We are so certain of establishing
Quick and Thorough Cures
that we take no case in hand unless
We are Positive we can Cure.
Pitiable cases of nervous wrecks and run-down men and women
have come to us every day and we have made them perfect in health
We have re-invigorated them in a few weeks by our wonderful
Electro-Medical Treatment
(
(
or the combined use of Electricity and Medicine.
(
(
Here are two from letters received from eminent patients
which should set you thinking :
(
(
A Prominent Sydney Post Office
Official states:
“ I tried your Electro=Medical system
of restoration for a period of three
months. I am COMPLETELY CURED
OF INDIGESTION AND RHEUMATISM
from which I suffered for years.”
Mr. Philip Newbury, the popu-
lar tenor, states:
“For years 1 suffered from Uric
Acid in the Blood causing rheumatic
tendencies, but thanks to the wonderful
efficacy of your Electric ‘ INVIGORA= (
TOR,’ I am completely cured.”
All Attestants may be interviewed and original testimonials examined.
Specialists’ Fees : Advice and Medicine, ONE POUND only
worn roumMhe waist nightly, re-invigorate the entfr! ® 'f eS ' Scientists employ it, the public praise it. The “ INVIGORATORS,”
the digestive and nutritive processes" lavinn the fo ”, v ’ t ' eS ° f th . c W {' The medicines, which are of a specially reconstructive character, tone up
, ' • * processes, laying the foundation of a gjrand new healthy life. These ••INVIGORATORS" are modelled after those used by
physicians to the late queen
sciatica!
pay for press-puffed old-time Electric'‘‘Belts/’ ISORDERS ' The T are »°° d f " r women to wear.. Consider these prices well with those you are asked to
NOTE.
The Physician-in-Chief is the Only Medical Practitioner advertising 1 Electric Belts in Australia. -@a
PRICES.
You see here the value :
Copper Plate, £1; Silver Plate, £1 10s; Solid Silver, £3; Solid Gold, £lO (2oz. 18ct Cold).
‘ ate Tests given. CertMoates shown from Electrical Experts, proving they have the true non-conducting vulcanite
insulation, without which no BELT can give a true medical electric current.
Registration by the Medial Boards of
New South Wales
South Australia
Victoria
England
and
America
Open for inspection of the PHYSICIAN-IN-CHIEF to the Institute of
wiyyam DOMINIC OOBinOAN, BART., says,
opinion of Dr. Wallace m regard td his professional qualifications .”
The operations of the INSTITUTE are world-wide. Scarcely a dav
r«™ T SaME GREAT is reported through the medium of
the SPECIALISTS’ SYSTEM of HOME TREATMENT. Patients are
treated as well irj THEIR OWN HOMES as if visiting personan" To
the poor professional advices ARE. ALWAYS GIVEN FREE.
; Th f SPEOIAListS 8 ' treatment is sure and effective. Improvement
is rapid and certain. . ’ ,
v*w
0 v
irw
I & I
tl' *aV^ S
faieA
friToi
Post Free, Is-
SEND FOR THIS BOOK.
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
A magnificent Xmas present for yourself and your friends after you.
It.is pot a mere pamphlet, for it contains 550 pages of valuable informa-
tion, illustrated by 150 medical plates of genuine artistic excellence. It is
u a,wprlj r y;hich should always be in your house, in everyone’s house, all over
Australia.
For One Shilling in Stamps
you can procure this splendid Volume POST FREE to any address in
Australia. If you want a Presentation Book here is your chance. It fully
explains the application of Electricity to the human frame. • Over 100
leading Australian journals eulogise it “AS A WELCOME ADDITION
TO AUSTRALIAN LITERATURE.”
the free
and SURGICAL INSTITUTE
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director
EUZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
2 , a. a * a __
» hh . nHn , wireuior. M .. * > 1 * * •' ..- - j _. . ' •
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S ,E , L.M , Physician in Chil*! Fre6 fr ° m Observation and sent to all parts Oi
y a ” ■" Chief. Letters treated with Professional Secrecy and promptly
f Australia,
replied to.


ADVT
4<2 CEORGi 6' svnJ
JR big Jewellery Store was never so superior, never so splendid.
Every beautiful thing from England, America and the Continent is
here, and favourably priced for you. So quickly come and go the new
things that we could not enumerate them, but come in and see for
4;
yourself'what we have. We never press anyone to buy. We will gladly
show you the latest even if you come only out of curiosity. Our New
Catalogue Is free to all.
No. E44s9—The “ Oupid ” Oard Case,
Solid Silver, Lady’s Size, £2 10s.
Silver-Plated on Nickel Silver
Base, Tankard, J-pt., 129; 1 pt.,
15s.
Wo. F 612- A 1 Quality Silver-Plated
Tpast Rack, £1 15s.
.. .•? .
No. F 9554 —Heavy Oct Gold Twist Bracelet, £2 103.
No. E3oS2—Oct Gold Bracelet, set Pearls and Sapphire
Doublets, £2 2s.
ADVT
No. F9557—9ct Gold and Real Pearl
Bracelet, £2.
No. F.)569 —9ct Gold and Real Pearl
Bracelet, £1 7s. 6d.
9et Gold & Tortoiseshell
Hairpin or Ornament,
£1 7s 6d.
No. F2lsB—Solid Silver Prize Bowl,
£8 IQs.—BJin. x s Jin.
No. F9s72—Strong 9ct Gold Twist Tuba
Broooh, k\ 10s.
No. F247B—Silver Plated Butter Knife and Jam
Spoon, in a Case, 14s. Cd.
No. F55B—Al Quality
Silver Plated Butter Dish,
£1 12s. 6d.
No. F999l—Silver Plated Satin Lined
Jewel Case, JEI 6s.
No 163—18 ct Gold
Diamond and Ruby Ring',
£3 10s.
No. F64B3—Solid Silver
Pepper Pot, 18s. 6d..
No. E7B49—Silver - Plated
Egg Boiler, £1 7s. 6d.
No. Fl342—Cut Glass and
Silver PlatedPCfaret Jug,
3 £llS -
No. F47lo—Silver Plated Knife, Fork and Spoon,
in a Case, 14s.‘ 6d.
ADVT
ADVT
Toilet (Otto) Vinolia Soap has
been examined by bacteriologists,
who report that it contains no
bacteria whatever. Vinolia is
Safest for the Complexion, Toilet,
Nursery and Bath.
The Photographic Sensation of the Season.
KODAK..
GLASS
PLATE
CAMERAS.
Write for Illustrated and Descriptive
Leaflet, and mention this Paper.
KODAK Limited*
284 COIvIvINS STREET, Melbourne.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
*l*o DEFY COMiFEXITION.
WINES
SPIRITS.
The Best Brands Only of
&C
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS* CORDIALS, &0.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
9k
Hotelkeepers, make your own
DERATED WATERS
THE ‘‘AUSTRAL” DERATED WATER MACHINE oecffl&s
only Four Feet square, will produce 160 dozen BOTILW
per day of Finest Waters (Lemonade, Ginger Ale, Sodawater,
&c.) at a COST BELOW FOURPENCE PER DOZEN. These machine
are now working in all the Australian States, New Zealand, ana
South Africa.
Write for Prices and Particulars.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
eckersley and sons,
214-216 Queen Street, Melbourne.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried in vest
po'ket and blown out to life-size (causes roars of
laughter), Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket, Book of
Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin and Card
Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character), The Mafeking Grub (or
nerve-strengthener), and, last of all, that side-splitting
Look and Laugh Glass, Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free bn receipt of 2s. 6d.
Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
X
YORK NOVELTY CO.,
7-10 George-street, SYDNEY.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCO
BREAKFAST-SUPPER
BLOW FLIES.^s-*
The ONLY destroyer—The “Buz*"
Window Trap* witHFaulding'*
Insect Powder. AIT store*.


Pleasant to the palate, pleasant in action,
and delightfully exhilarating and refreshing
in its effects—these are the qualities which
have earned wide-spread popularity for
ADVT
“NATURE'S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.’*
Acts Gently but Surely on the
KIDNEYS, LIVER AND BOWELS.
Cleanses the System Effectually,
Dispels Colds, Headaches and Fevers, and
PERMANENTLY OVERCOMES
HABITUAL CONSTIPATION
and all kindred complaints, speedily restoring health,
appetite, energy and good spirits.
Ask for CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS and look for the Name
and Trade Mark of the
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP COMPANY,
31 & 32 SNOW MILL, LONDON.
Australian Branch —7 Barrack Street, Sydney,
| Of all leading Chemists, ,
‘HARLENE’
a; hair.
The very Finest Dressings
Restores the Hair.
Promotes the Growth.
Arrests the Fall.
Strengthens the Roots.
Preserves the Hair.
Renders it Beautifully Soft.
Removes Dandruff.
Allays all Irritation.
Preserves, Strengthens, and Invigorates
Childrens’ Hair.
Full description and directions for use in
30 languages supplied with every bottle.
1/-, 2/o,and (triple a/6 size)47o per
Bottle from Druggists, &c., all over
■ the World.
Edwards’ Harlene Co.
High Hoiborn, London, Eng .
ADVT
■Comma, shall I have beautiful Ion? hair like you when I grow upt”
Certain!}, my dear, if you use Edwards' ‘ Harlene.’" x
6,000
IN USE
VO DAY
ADVT
LOWEST
PRICE
OF ALL
The
OMsmobile
A practical runabout for business or pleasure and sold for less money than
any automobile in the world.
It will run over any passable road ; climbs steep hills; is almost noiseless;
attains a speed of 25 miles an hour; will run 30 miles on one gallon of
gasoline; starts with ease from the seat and is always ready for instant use;
is accident proof; has no fire ; no boiler to burn out.
Construction is so simple it cannot get out of order and requires no
experience to run it. There’s nothing to watch but the road ahead.
Can be shipped to this country at small expense, quick delivery.
The Oldsmobile is sold in America or $650 (£1 30).
Write for free handsome illustrated book. We will quote you a price
delivered at your nearest port.
Agents Wanted in Unoccupied Foreign Territory.
Olds Motor Works 9
Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
I Leri
tnuia
■; ■ .
PENS;
ML
od
lid
soma a
gtd di^w J aitG^‘tiyp J tt'this‘tew sefifcs of
iUi)*
ssrin'ade
turned up
ana orne
at’the same-works, as the well
Same.'ttjbl&fy the same pnfcesir . ,
known Pens,! whichHinki, Wells & Coi hare Uat
30 years and upwards; (prior to SeijtmhflripftDj fw
and ud odv/ « ; aaj^
" .Ij
ibj
j'im SuL a
I on
w-
Sold by all
us iStetAd&er/sjuyaL
_.:vafcjtti£Buii3'-)-i9t!'l ••
u«A*JUtc* fcftS.t*-.;
HINKS, WELLS As CO., Bivminghi
Kn^landi
The End of the “Joint.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mick the Mule came out of Melbourne Gaol.
The busy hum of the streets buzzed in his ears,
accustomed for months past to the deadening
silence of prison. He walked along Russell-street
into'the heart of the city, staring wistfully at
those he passed. His brain heaved in exultation
at his freedom and the prospect of a new life.
• • • *
He had struggled for a sweat-earned crust; but
there are none so cruel as they who sin not; so
lack of references and the mention of his latest
master brought a snort of refusal from each
righteous employer.
Sjg,Mick hungered.
'When his pence reached the level of his pride,
he reluctantly turned to the old haunts in Little
Bourke-street. Afi Sing’s flabby, cauliflower face
stillhshowed behind the mouldy window of the
Quang Joint. But Ah Sing’s memory of past
favors was of the Parliamentary type.
“No sabbee you ! You likee workee longa me,
mejpay. You no likee workee, me no sabbee.”
Mike thought of the opium-den bludger and of
the river—and preferred the river. But first he
tried a last resource.
A strong heavily-barred door opened to his two
scratches and a knock. A game of skittles was
going on within. He walked to a staircase and
ascended carefully, avoiding the alternate steps,
which were “blinds.” He reached a room fitted
up as a gymnasium—the meeting-place of the
Young Men’s Club—according to a notice on the
wall. Mick crossed to the opposite wall and pressed
a hidden button. The panel moved and he stepped
into the Two-Up Joint.
A large, well-lit room, with neither window nor
door. In the middle a 20-foot padded ring,
round which were seats and the scum of the great
city. The language was a blend of a dozen
nations’ profanity. Crafty,' cat-like faces, glaring
at the man holding the “ kip.” “ Snowy’’Brown
stalked about the ring, watching for his com-
mission and crying “ Make your bets ! ” Money
showered on the padded floor, and was quickly
covered. “I’m on heads.” “Tails!” “who’ll
cover heads?” “ A dollar.” “ Make it a thick’un!”
“Bli-me, orlright’’—the “nobs” with their gold,
the “snobs ” with their silver.
“Let her go!” said Snowy, and there was a
deep silence of expectancy. The man with the
kip—with its two large discs, each gilded on one
side, and now lying, one shining, one black—
paused a second. Mike gazed at him, and saw
his own reincarnation. A mere boy, as he had
been; a well-set, well-dressed bank-clerk, as he
had been ; and soon to be a gaol-bird, as he had
been. f, v.-
Up went the coins to the roof, gleaming and
turning before a hundred pairs of greedy, crime-
sodden eyes. They , fell noiselessly, and a chorus
of filthy oaths mingled with Snowy’s “Heads.”
Mick touched one of the winners on the
shoulder. The man turned. “ What-ho, Merley!”
He came out of the crowd. “Out of quod,
blokey! ”
“Yes, Josser ! Lend us a few bob.”
“ Strike me blind ! Is that wot you take a
bloke from a winning seat for ? Y’ve got a blanky
face on yer ! But I’ll put you on to a crook ”
“I’m going square,” said Mick, weakly.
“Oh, Hell! Go to the bloomin’ Harmy ! I
ain’t got nothing for your sort. And you’ve
crooked my luck, too, blast yer ! ”
Mick slunk from the place as another roar of
oaths proclaimed a fourth successive “Heads,’
and Josser went back to the circle. But his lucky
seat had been jumped, and his late adversary,
eyed him suspiciously.
“ A nice put-up job.”
“’Struth, no! Didn’t you see Mick the Mule?”
“ Dicken ! ”
“ Straight wire ! He’s just out of quod, and he
tried a Joe Rail on me for some beans.”
. “D’yer give him any?” said Buck, with
interest.
“ My blanky oath—no ! ”
A light gleamed in Buck’s one eye as he jumped
to his feet. “ Blokes, here’s a sanguinary cow for
you ! You know, coves, how his cobber, Mick
the Mule, kept his trap shut he might have
got this ’ere crimson Josser two years. Mick
took his whack, and now he conies out without a
caser to get a beer—”
“ Make your bets, ” cried Snowy, scenting fight.
“Shut up, Snowy ! ” came a roar,
“And this blanky cow wouldn’t give him a bob.”
Then Josser did a foolish thing—he made for
the exit-panel. But either the latent chivalry of
the Push, or its dog-like delight in a hunt, was
aroused, and it went for Josser like a tornado. He
flew up into the air like a football, his clothes
were torn from him in three seconds, and, naked
but for his boots, he rushed round, swore, fought,
kicked, and raved.
“My God!” cried Snowy, trying to draw the
attention of the excited mob to the entrance of
certain stalwart and grim-looking strangers.
Then, from one of these—“ It’s all up, my lads !
fifty more policemen outside ” —and tall, thin,
sharp-eyed Dunkey smiled at his catch—and
winked at Buck Crow.
* * * «
But Mick chose the river.
GENUNG.
Colonial Experience.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I remember one day when I was a kid,” said
Parkinson, “the old man says to me, ‘Bill, let’s
see how far yer can walk backwards with yer eyes
shut.’ I shut me eyes, an’ walks backwards, an’
was gettin’ along smilin’ when all of a sudden I
sits flop into a big tub of water. The old man,
while I was splutterin’ an’ splashin’, roared fit to
bust. ’Bout a week after, we wur standin’ near
the same place, an’ he says to me, ‘ Bill, let’s see
how far yer can walk backwards with yer eyes
shut.’ I looks round very careful. The old chap
grinned, an’ patted me on the woolly butt. * That’s
experience, Bill,’ he says, ‘wot you an’ every other
chump’s got ter pick up. -Yer’ll find yerself
blunderin’ into many a tub afore you’ve picked up
enough of it to make a handy bushwhacker.’ That
was 40 years ago, an’ I’ve been meetitt* tubs an’
pickin’ up that there experience ever since.
“ rUiiHi'iHirrn into a head
where there was none afore. It’s yer compass
where there’s no tracks— yer divinin’*rod - when
yer want water. Some fellers get it by sheer grit
an’ doggedness, an’ some by seein* other people
break their necks. It doesn’t come to you with a
sudden jump. It’s an expensive acquirement
generally. Take a man that’s been all over the
world in ships an’ trains, an’ so forth ; turn him
adrift ’ere, an’ he’s lost in ten minutes. But the
man that’s knocked about the big sheep or cattle-
runs is at home in any sitchuwation, an’ can pick
himself out of any bush, doan’ matter where.
He’s swallowed the experience. It’s a fine thing
to ’ave in strange places where nobody lives ; but
’tain’t to be gathered up like sticks.
“ When you come to reckon-up, the knowledge
o’ little things in the bush costs a lot one way nil’
another. Not to speak of the annoyances an’ fears
you ’ave, the skin an’ hair yer lose, an’ the knocks
yer get; the learnin’ o’ little wrinkles yer’d think
nothin’ of sometimes costs a thumpin’ stack o’
money.
“I remember once I was paddin’ it along a
telegraph line with a line-repairer, an’ whenever
he saw two birds light on a wire he’d betrme that
a certain one would fly off fust. He was a gambling
monomaniac in that respect. I warn’t long losirr
a poun’. Kept on bettin’, in the hope o’ winnin’
it back, an’doubled it. I dropped to it at last.
The bird that lights fust is always the fust to fly
off. Travellin’ soon afterwards with another
bloke, I reckoned to profit by my experience.
* See them two crows ?’ says I. ‘ Bet yer ten bob
the far one flies off fust.’ 4 Done ! ’ Bidin’ close
to a metal telegraph-post he gives it a smart ' tap
with his whip. The nearest (beautiful) crow flies
off instanter. I paid for some more experience.
Wot sort o’ terbacca d’yer call this ? Tastes un-
common like old bags.”
A mob of cattle emerged from the timber and
momentarily interrupted the dissertation.
“Yer’d think there was no art in ridin’ after
stock, in musterin’or drivin’,” he resumed. 44 It
looks a simple thing to turn a mob o’ rughin’
cattle, or to steer ’em through a gateway when
they’re ringin’. There’s as much knack in it
though, as there is in ridin’ a buck-jumper, or
throwin’ a three-months old bull-calf.
44 Yer’d think there was nothin’, either, in sheep-
farmin’. By the time yer can draft off wet ewes,
an’ dry ewes, an’ maiden ewes, into three separate
pens, by lookin’ at their faces, from a runnin’ string
o’mixed sheep, without blockin’’em or making a
mistake, ’tween smoke-o an’ smoke-o, you’ll begin
to tumble there’s a lot more in it than wot shows
on the surface. That’s one o’ the things that yer
can’t be shown, an’ that can’t be described. Until
yer become familiar with the game, you can’t See
any difference in the ewes; an’ the man who
drafts ’em by the faces can’t explain wot he sees—
’cept that the face of a wet ewe is cleaner of h'&ir
an’ wool, an’ looks happier, than the others’ faces.
Yer’ve got to learn it by experience. See a straw,
anywheres ? Can’t stand a pipe wot sucks or
whistles ? Gives me the dunnowots.
“ There’s any gorsquantity o’ things yer come
ter know an’ thoroughly understand, an’ yet yer
can’t tell ’em or learn ’em to another. It’s
acquired by long familyeraraty. I heard a fellow
say once that it was the external he-quivalent to
instink. A miner would say it was the precious
gilt that was mined out of all sorts of hardships,
an’ a farmer would put it as it was the fruit that
growed on a bitter tree called blunders. If yb’re
long in the company of even a workin’ bullock
yer’ll see different expressions in that bullock’s
face. In the same way yer come to see plain
English written in yer dog’s face ; to know when
he thinks yer a hero, an’ when he reckons yer. a
flamin’ lunatic, which is purty often, an’ yer come
to understand the moods an’ emotions of even, a
goanna. Anybody that’s got a bit o’ gumption at
all can tell when a horse is pleased, or narked; or
frightened ; an’ when he’s tired or sick ; but the
man who handles an’ rides the prad anyways
reg’lar sees a lot more than a stranger couldn’t
twig with a telescope. It all comes natch’rel
when yer go through the proper course o’ tubs.
“ Years ago ‘Colonyal Experience’ was qqite
an institootion in its way. Swells uster send
their sons out to stations to learn it. They’d get
10 or 15 bob a week maybe, an’ ’ave to rough it in
the yards an’ out-camps, an’ the bush gen’ally,
same as any other knockabout. At first we uster
look up to them an’ call ’em ‘Mister So-an’-so,’
an’ think them lucky beggars to have plenty o’
money an’ be doin’ this sort o’ work just for the
fun o’ it. But when ive got more experience, we
found that their people were mostly ragged swells
who couldn’t afford to keep ’em, or else they were
good-for-nothin’s turned out of the old home to
shift for themselves. They weren’t men enough t*Q
own up as they had ter go an' graft for a livin’.
After that, we nicknamed each one accordin’ to
his pertickler perculyeraraty, an’ uster pitch ’em
fairies about how we wur learnin’ colonyal, an’
gettin’ remittances from ’Ome.
“Sometimes yer meet a bullock-puncher on the
track that’s not well-up to the game. Has trouble
in every bit o’ loose ground, an’ gets bogged to his
eyes in every worm-track of a crick. He’s hoarse
from shoutin’, an’ blessed near blind with sweat.
Even the beastly flies seem to know lie’s worried,
an’ injiy tormentin’ him. He makes a swipe at
Straggler—an’ knocks his hat off. Straggler looks
round to see wot’s ’appened. The others switch
their tails. Some coughs. That driver’s nearly
boilin’. He can’t get his cussology goin’, an’
makes ap awful jumble of. it.. Then Leopard
starts feedin’ ; an’ that makes him madder. He
makes a tremenjus swipe at him with the whip ;
but it gets round his own neck somehow, an’ darn
near jerks his blamin’ head off—an’ breaks the
handle.
“Then an old driver comes along. He takes
the damaged whip, straightens the team up with
a word or two, just gives a high-up flourish—an'
away they go. To look at him yer’d think bullock -
punchin’ was the simplest thing in the world !
It’s like everything else —just wants a little
experience.
44 1 s’pose I’ve had as much of it as anyone, ’ere
or there ; an’ it’s put a bit o’ money in me pocket,
too. You can make a lot o’ money in the bush
with experience. I put by a ’und’ed quid once in
less’n ten years. It was my fust taste o’ wealth,
an’ I reckoned I’d go to Sydney an’ ’ave some tun
with it. When I got there I takes a tram as the
easiest way out to a friend o’ mine. That blanky
conductor uster come for tickets every five
minutes. I didn’t cotton to the game yer know.
When the darn thing was stoppin’ I makes a
dinnyaiser to get out of it as I see others doin’.
But they didn’t land like me at all. The road
seemed to buck from under me, an’ the fust o’ me
to get there was the back o’ me head. I looked a
proper fool, Lean tell you, with dust all over me
new black suit, standin’ there waitifi’ for the
bloomin’ tram to get off me hat.
“Some spavmed-kneed hoodlum comes up an’
says I was foolish to jump front a movin’ tram
when I had no experience. ‘ Exper ’ I-gasped.
Then I went an’ had a long beer. I ’ad several of
him, in fact. But I didn’t get drunk. I’d been
in that tub
EDWARD S. SORENSON.


dfafADVTADVT
. V)
/
Hi'SrillL
\
V
111
Is Caused by
Kidneys.”
n 't
re
k<
\
3^'
Everyone knows the purpose of
a water filter-—to filter the im-
purities from water.
Have, you ever reflected for a
moment on the fact that you have
filters in your system a thousand
times more intricate and delicate
than the water thousand
times more important, too 1
These filters are the kidneys.
It is their duty to filter from the
blood the impurities which cause disease,
and to pass them from the system.
But sometimes the kidneys get sick through a fall or
strain, exposure, excessive use of liquor, pei'liaps, or one
of many other causes. Then they become clogged.
It’s no use to try to filter water with a clogged filter ; before the water
can be purified the filter must be cleansed. It should always be kept clean.
The same, exactly, with your kidneys. When they arp clogged they
cannot filter the blood properly ; then certain impurities a,re left in the system
that poison every nerve and organ. These poisons, this unfiltered blood,
cause Anaemia, Jaundice, Eczema, Pimples, Boils, Blotches, Piles, A r aricose
Veins, Sallow Complexion, as well as Female Troubles, Neuralgia, Headaches,
Melancholia, and a hundred other ills. 1
A tonic or purgative medicine will often give temporary relief in cases of
this kind, but the trouble soon returns. It is NO USE to doctor the symp-
toms if you want a lasting cure-—you must go to the root of the trouble and
doctor that. • ■
A gardener who is weeding does not clip'off the body of the weed, but
pulls it out by the root." The kidneys are the root of troubles brought about
by impure blood, and ; , ;
Doan’s Backache Kidney pills
are a medicine specially prepared for Kidney Disorders. They will never
fail to gently aid and soothe the kidneys, and to cleanse them from'im-
purities. They cure the root of your trouble, not merely the symptoms.
Entirely vegetable in their composition, they do not injure the system, nor
purge. .
You are not asked to believe our statement alone, nor the word of a
stranger living in a distant town, but you are asked to place confidence
in the word of a fellow-resident, who frankly speaks out for the public
benefit.
SYDNEY PROOF.
Mr. W. Hibberd, of St. Paul’s-street, Randwick, this city, says : —“ For
years I have been a sufferer from backache. In my work I have to stoop a good
deal, and prolonged exertion of this kind'would double me up with pain. After
stooping I would be scarcely able to stand up straight again, but would have to
unbend gradually, and get the kinks out of my back. I used many sorts of
medicine for this ache, but with poor success. The doctors I saw were also
puzzled, I think. I procured a box of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and I'am
very pleased to tell you that these pills g-ave me almost immediate relief. They
went right to the root of my trouble. The pains diminished after further treat-
ment, and at length totally disappeared. I shall always recommend these pills
for backache trouble.” - .
Twelve months later Mrs. Hibberd states:—“lt is now more than a year
ago since my husband used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for backache. lam
now enabled to say that the pills wrought a permanent cure in his case. The
pains never retimed since. I can speak with conviction on the marvellous way
they acted in his case. He is very enthusiastic about the pills, and is always
recommending them for such ailments as the pills are meant for. He had been
bad over ten years, so you can see it is no common remedy that could cure him
the way Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills did.” '
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are for sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers,
at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes, H ss. 3d.), or wifi be posted, on-receipt of
price, by • Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney. . /
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DOAN S.
"The Press
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I teqeh the people what is good
For if hern andfor—mypurse:
If yicej wilf aid my livelihood,
Thgn virtue has my curse.
’ , 7 ■'
Impostures simulate the real
When to my loom T hie ;
With threads of truth it can conceal
The shoddy of a lie.
• - I , • ■.,« _• —»* V '4,
I ajn tbjg arbiter o&stjde,
decree
ljpaks' whicli question me are vile,
AndmsHess which agree.
Offiissujn is my master-word
.-Wh'en critics baulk my will,
Wit hit J.blunt Exposure’s sword,
AndfjPompetition kill.
With, tact I can my flocks compel
To what they loathe subscribe.
Can Right-distort to spawn of hell
With venom of a jibe.
With silver pieces I can lead,
-From Honor’s narrow way,
Each Jtidas with"a pliant creed ■■
A Sayiour to betray.
When Privilege would Progress blast,
Of Nemesis bid wait;
O’er goodliest fields of Peace I casb
The tyres of racial hate 1 /
The truth, now lopped to fit my bed,
Now lengthened to a lie,
I vfend ; and, for ffiy clients’ bread,
The slop of Passion’s st-y. 1"
The ininions who enjoy my grace
No confidence respect,' - ■
No private friendship’s scruple stays
To blab what they detect.
They cringe unto the great to hear
Some scandal careless laugh ;
They Woqm the secrets out of Eear
To tint ‘aij3foragraph. ' -
Last week I advertised for sale
-• The cheapest way to sin ;
To,day at victims scourged in gaol..
My leader-writers grin.
To Panic, loose-brained,mobs I drive
With iterated screams,
Or lull them, when for Right they’d strive,
With lotus-eaters’ dreams.
MELR.
DANTON.
Our New Selection.
(HOW DAD FELL OUT WITH DALY.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Daly had been to Brisbane, and retufhed burst-
ing with enthusiasm and information. He called,
at Ruddville to unburden himself to Dad!' Daly
was a welcome visitor at our place, arid, always
got on well with Dad. ■'
Besides Daly, Dad was the only man op Saddle-
top acquainted with the capital. He posed as an
authorityonthegeography of Brisbane —knewevery
hole and corner of it, and could tell you exactly
where Cribb’s andiTifnkaway’s and Toppin’s, and
Winship’s and old Bartley’s places were. It was
no credit to him, though, because he worked there
a whole mohfeli nearly 45 )fears ago.
“You wouldn’t know it now, man,” Daly said,
deprecatingly—“you’d get lost.”
Dad wasp’t so sure.
“Don’t know,”“he said, thoughtfully, stroking
his long, igrey beard.
“\VhyritVall built on fer miles— houses every-
whcrdvatfi strrrts doTr’tdaiow where th’divil
y’ are fer them. .. . It’s a fact!” (turning
aggressively on Joe, who displayed an inclination
to doubt) “yer can smile!” (Then to Dad)
“And people! By gad!” t
Daly couldn’t convey any idea of the popula-
tion. .-dEngmTgefailed him."‘~ -J ' ~
Sarah?dnstanced'TlTe"cfo‘wd that attended old
Mrs. Delaney’s funeral by way of comparison.
“Be damned !”. (Daly Was not a polite man).
“ Pshaw ! Nothing! . , . YouVe seen big mobs
of sheep, haven’t y’? ” (All of us had.) “ Well,
they’re simply nothing to th’ crowds y’ ’ll see in
th’ main street on a Saturd’y night. S’ ’elp me
goodness ! ” (addressing mother —his mouth, eyes,
and hands all working) “I never thought there
was so many people in the world, Mrs. Rudd. ”
Dad reflected.
“ Must go down when th’ wheat’s in, an’ see it
again,” he said-
“lf yer do” —Daly went on—“stay at Mrs.
O’Reilly’s, in- Roma-street. Best place in th’
whole town, .an’on’y thirteen bob a week. Tip-
top table ari’jtwd all-right girls waits on y’. Look
after yer as if y’ wer’ a juke; no mistake;
an’ look here” (turning excitedly to mother)
“polish yerffiootslevery bloomin’ mornin’, and”
(Daly paused to cough) “an’ fetch tea inter th’
bed t’ y’.” ... . . .. ..
All of us laughed, except Sarah.- She turned
up her nose and went out. Sarah was A Sunday-
school tctaehef-nowj ;.-• 2;::: • . „•
“Who, the girls?” "Joe shouted, above the
noise. .
“O’ course.”
“ Go on with you ! ” mother said, looking on the
floor. She didn’t believe Daly.
“My colonial!” Daly said.
‘‘That’s th’ place for us, David, when we go
down,” .Joe put in, poking Dave hard in the ribs.
Dave grinned a long, deep grin.
“ You 'gWUßeilly’s, ” Daly continued, address-
ing Dad again, “ask fer ”.
“There were apktee, ” Dad mused, interrupting
Daly, “on the crick, where I used t’ stay;
near ”, ...
“ Crick.!-” Daly guff Awed. “ Crick / . . ; there
isn’t any crick. . -. . Darftme, I tell y’ it’s all huilt
on, man ; all houses—miles and miles of’.era. Th’
river's wqt you meum ! ” And he laughed-cheer.-' .
fully. - -*--J _ V
“ Nonsense 7”-Dad snapped.turning red in the
face ; “there’s a crick as well. Muloahy’s place
is on th’ bank. Did you see Mulcahy’s place ? ”
■. ' •:; -; • • ~ , :
Tears ran from Daly’s eyes.
“What part of Brisbane d’ y’ mean ? ” he asked
of Dad, in a voice that implied ridicule...
“ Confound it, feller ! ” Dad broke out'; “do y’
think I’ve never been there ? ” ‘ ,;
“ Now, don’t get angry over it,” mother inter-
posed, in her quiet, kind way.
But Dad would never suffer a contradiction.
.“Here!” he shouted, violently displacing a
portion of the tablecloth and brandishing his
pocket-knife—“here’s Brisbane, ain’t it?” (He
savagely scratched a tracing, something like a
square, on the table, which annoyed mother.)
Daly smiled and, when Dad glared round at
him, nodded assent.
“■ There’s th’ river/”— raking the knife through
the square, and making mother jump.
Daly, watching closely over Dad’s shoulder,
chuckled acquiescence.
“ An’ that’s th’ bridge?” —gashing the river in
two.
“ Correct,” Daly said, grinning more.
“ Here’s Windmill Hill; here’s Rafferty’s pub.
in South Brisbane” (Dad dug a hole in the table
to mark the pub., and mother shuddered); “ and
here, just behind Rafferty’s, is a ridge, an’ a
waterhole where me an’ Andrew Larcus got our
water, an’a lot O’ scrub runnin’ right along this
way ’’—(hacking another channel in the cedar).
“ Bali /” Daly exclaimed in disgust—“ water-
hole! . . . scrub! . . . Wot’n th’ devil ’re y’
talkin’ about? Don’t I tell y’ th’ place is all
houses I ”
“Houses be d d ! ” Dad roared, showing all
his teeth (lie only has three, now), “there’s no
houses there ” (prodding the knife into South
Brisbane). “ Here’s where th’ houses is ’’ (he
stabbed North Brisbane hard and angrily), “ all
along here. . . . And -this, runnin’ upjiere” (more
.mutilations which pained mother)* “ th’ crick.”
“Pshaw! Crick! . . . That ” (Daly struck the
tracing with his fist, and didn’t notice he shook
Sarah’s flower-vase off table), “that’s all
shops.”
“ Shops /” Dad yelled, plunging the knife ,into
the cedar and snapping the blade*—“are y’ til ad?
How th’ devil can there be shops in a orick 1 ”
Daly turned green wjtjjyragqj
“ Yer don’t know-ennerthiri’ about it,” hq said,
taking up his hat and going to the door; .“yer
know nothing”. „ .., r ,.. . \
Mother pleaded for peace, and Joe grinned at
Dave.
“ Look here,” Dad roared, following Daly to
the verandah ; “ I was in Brisbane before you or
yV father, or any one o’ y’ ever saw the country.”
. T “ Yer. mfr/M,’’ Daly sneered, “yer might, but
yer know damn little about it all th’ same.” And
then he went away, 4
STEELE RUDD.
Some time ago The Bulletin a
(true enough) story of how grog was secretly
distilled, and enjoyed, by prisoners in Darling-
hurst Gaol out of material unwittingly provided
by the authorities to confinees. Here is a yarn to
match : *
Some dozen years ago I was a warder in Pentridge
(Vic.) prison, and one day self and mate came across a
bit of tin sticking out of a heap of spalls. “ Here’s a
plant, Jack,” he said, and we burrowed into the heap
until we found a pig excellently cured, encased in the tin
lining of a ling-fish box. The bacon-raising industry was,
as appeared at the subsequent inquiry, entirely intra-
mural ; the pig had been bred, fattened, killed and cured
inside the walls. First as to the abstraction of the pig
from the piggeries : The authorities keep a careful check
of the numbers of the pigs, but when a brood sow added
to the pig population, the prisoner in charge suppressed
one of the litter, and hid it in the straw until the official
count had been made. Then he put the little pig back
into stock and removed a big one for slaughtering pur-
poses. As to the curing, the prisoners in the scheme had
all been instructed to save their allowance of salt, and
thus sufficient for the purpose was collected. Then as to
fchecooking : A slush-lamp was improvised by means of a
jam-tin and a piece of moleskin tied round a stick and
saturated in grease, saved from the allowance for greasing
boots, and with a pieoe of sheet steel from the workshop
as a pan, the prisoners had been in the habit of enjoying
an occasional variation from the prison fare. For some
time before the discovery in the spall heap we had sniffed
the smell of cooking bacon, but-had not suspected the
truth.
The Eastern Extension -cum -S’African
Cable Co. is rpn principally on Chow, Malay, and
boy labor. On the .Australian stations lads pre-
dominate on the stalls. Those.young beginners
are quartered on the station, and have to -pay for
their mess at the same price as the officers
drawing greater salaries, a distinct injustice
where only £4O is the initial pay. On
the cable ship, which is manned at Singa-
pore, an Englishman generally does the
' splicing, assisted by about 40 Chows to turn the
cable. Should the Celestials pull it too tight,, or
vice-versa, the splicer will yell tQ_tho_Jiunion
nearest him, “Good Heavens! what are you up
to ? ” The leading Chow will yell, “ Goo’ ’evelins !
wha’ yar ooploo ? ” And the query, which is
wholly unintelligible to the yellow men, is passed
along the line —quite unconcernedly.
“H.S.R.” : Ac h'ut-taAimposectonPofttr-.
guese native at the instigation
of Britain. These natives (the Shangani) live
along the. .Zambesi and Jiave European blood.
Unlike die {Zulus, they-Will work underground,
and they -also wear clothes even in their kraals.
They are much better at "mining than the Kaffir
or .Zulu. The hut-tax is designed to drive them
to the mines. The whole of the Portuguese terri.
tory north of the Zambesi will probably shortly
be acquired, either peacefully or otherwise, by
England, for the sake of the india-rubber trade.
“T.D. ” : One cogent reason the police-
man has for refraining from “dealing it out”
to obstreperous drunks until they reach the
privacy of the lock-up cells, is that public
sympathy leans almost invariably towards the
'latter. Years ago, in Maoriland, T witnessed the
capture of a mad-drunk person who had run amok
with ahatchet, scared the wits out of numerous
citizens, and absolutely cleared several streets of
any semblance of life except a butcher’s pony
which was filching lunch’from-the overturned
baskets of a scared Chinaman.. . iDtffiedin is a hilly
place, and the roysterer was.eventually seized half
way up the most precipitous street to be found
even there. He fell with the' policeman on top of
him, and the two went rolling down the hill, one
over the other, accumulating thick layers of mud
and many excited spectators as they went. They
came to a stop outside the mansion of a well-to-do
old lady who hadn’t seen the earlier proceedings;
and who was positively horrified to observe a torn
and bleeding and muddy policeman sitting solidly
upon the stomach of his captive. She asked no
questions, but rushed out and made a spirited
effort to drag him away, vowing "meanwhile that
she would inform the proper authorities that he
was a cowardly brute, and ought to be dismissed
and gaoled for half murdering a small and-inoffen-
sive citizen, And the, crowd, which wouldn’t
have been there if it had se.en the victim’s blood-
.thirsty diversions with. the . hatchet, cheered the
‘old lady. vociferously, and would probably-ffiave
helped her I®.liberate that muddy object but for
the timely arrival of other policemen and a boy
who had picked up the culprit’s little axe.


Bad Blood. Boils
Suffered Greatly. Skin in Terrible Condition. Blood Filled with
Impurities. Ail Remedies but One Failed.
w
Mr. H. Feder, o'f Prospect, South
Australia, seuds us his photograph
and says:
“About two months ago I began to
feel badly all over. I was easily made
tired. I lost my appetite .and was very
nervous. In a few days my arms and
neck were all broken out with large
boils. For weeks my suffering was
terrible. I tried remedy after remedy,
but without relief. A friend told me it
was not my skin but my blood that
needed help, and urged me to try Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. He said he knew many
people who had been cured by it. I
bought a bottle, and I began to feel
better at once. My appetite returned,
my food digested better, and I felt
greatly encouraged. Before the bottle
was all used my blood was pure and
the boils had entirely disappeared.”
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Boils, rashes, pimples, eruptions, eczema, etc., are but evidences of trouble
down deep in the blood. Don’t treat the skin. Treat the blood. Take Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla, the medicine that has been curing impure blood for 60 years.
When your blood is pure the skin will be smooth and healthy. And you will
feel brighter, better in every way.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla isn’t like other Sarsaparillas. It is made differently, con-
tains stronger medicines. Don’t experiment with imitations.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Makes the Blood Pure and Rich
Keep your bowels in good condition by talcing Ayer’s PHls.
iW
BOX
Ar-
m
•7 )
It//.
it
m
. V/
Crozine Blacking
is a waterproof polish that produces a brilliant and permanent
gloss, which will not rub off. Shoes polished with “ Crozine
Blacking ” wear long, because it is an oil dressing, which softens
the leather. “ Crozine Blacking ”is guaranteed to be absolutely
free from all harmful substances, and will be found to be the
most satisfactory dressing made for all walking boots and shoes.
Sold almost everywhere. If not found, write at once to
C* L. HAfJTHAWAY SONS, Boston, Mass., U.SA.
ADVT
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout, v
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
•ickness of Pregnancy.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DlMffORDf
MAGNESIA,
ADVT
ADVT
ADVT
o
ADVT
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
IRISH MOSS
MOSS
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
k- ! j
BEECHAM’S
MUSIC FOLIO.
Volume 20 Now Ready.
The New Volume comprises THREE NUMBERS from
“ PAUST,” Michael Watson’s “ THE KISSING BRIDGE,”
Kingsley’s “THREE EISHERS ” (Hullah's music), EIVE
DANCES and PIANO PIECES, TWO COON MELODIES
by Gus Collins, and many other Good Songs—THIRTY in
all, several of which are copyright.
BEECHAM’S MUSIC FOLIO is not “ cheap ” in any sense of the word
exeept in |)rice. It is lithographed from well-engraved plates on good paper,
and edited by an eminent Professor of Music, thus guaranteeing perfect
accuracy. The songs have all the original pianoforte accompaniments in full
A LIST OF THE CONTENTS OF EACH VOLUME MAY BE HAD FROM MOST BOOKSELLERS.
—»—k i
Volume 20 and the PRECEDING i 9 VOLUMES can be obtained from most
Newsagents, Booksellers and Music=seHers at TWOPENCE per Volume.
PUBLISHED BY
The Proprietor of “BEECHAM’S PILLS,”
ST. HELEN’S, ENGLAND.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL, you enjoy your lunch
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
Single Room, with Bull Board, Bs. per
day, or 2s. per week.
TERMS. - The convenient
system of paying for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms ; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7-30—from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
ADVT
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLI.INS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded oyer the Commonwealth and to the East
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
All
M.D., C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E.,
L.F.P.S.G., E.M., etc.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Great
Britain, Victoria, New South Wales,
etc.,
flay be CONSULTED DAILY
151 ELIZABETH STREET (Hyde Park), SYDNEY
(ELMLEY HOUSE).
De. MARTIN, during his recent European Tour, visited the Leading Hospitals of GREAT BRITAIN
and EUROPE, and has now at his CONSULTING ROOMS all the latest improvements in ELECTRIC
APPLIANCES, BATHS, etc., and all the most recent scientific methods of treatment for all NERVOUS
*r U . No ’. . H . EA^ r .’. SKtN ' and all CHRONIC DISEASES of Men and Women, including the BROWN-
TT “ EB,NG ’ and KNOX=MER CER TREATMENT for all ACUTE INFLAMMA-
R an CHRONIC COMPLAINTS, in the treatment of which he has been so successful during his
14 years Australian practice, thus ensuring all Patients entrusting themselves to his eare an accurate
diagnosis, together with prompt and effectual treatment.
COUNTRY PATIENTS treated by Correspondence (Fee, by letter, £1). Medicines forwarded to all
parts of Australasia. All communications confidential. Dr. MARTIN has treated over 20,000 cases during
the last 15 years—a success unequalled by any other Specialist in Australia.
Moderate Charges. Effectual Treatment. Absolute and Rapid Cures.
CONSULTATION BOURS-IO to 2 and 7 to 9 Daily.


CELLULOID
COLLAR
GOODNESS
We sell the good kind of Celluloid
Collars. Our Celluloid Collars
have a nice, white, clean appear-
ance, and stay white. They clean
well, and last longer than other
kinds. They save lots of money, be-
cause you can wash them yourself.
In all the latest styles and
shapes, at Lowest Prices
for Highest Qualities.
PERDRiAU ot CO.
Rubber Merchants,
270 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ADVT
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest,graue Cycles. Fully warranted.
Latest
Models'
to£smsmO
Dunlop Tyres. Steel or Wood Rims,
tree Wheel*, Mud Guards and Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID
To any tort in Australasia.
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogue and Special Otter
Using sjd. Stamp. Address Dept 3450
Mead Cycle Co.
Ch J%°T’
60
ADVT
W. C. ZEULIDIRaiZDG-IE & CO.
DYERS & GLEANERS,
40 YORK STRBJST, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
BOTHERS
O
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK*
r.a£
'
ii*
& 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
For all Services kept in Stock
SeudL for Catalogui
Large
Stocks
CARRIED BY
BENNIE,
TEARE,
& CO.
GENUINE
BALATA
BELTING
AT
Sydney,
Melbourne,
Perth,
Coolgardie,
■ ■ ■
Sole Australian
Representatives
TANGYES
LIMITED.
P’S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
it wiil dissolve out mder
It will stay on the sheep’s back as long as required, It . wsSS * n^ure the wooi -
the ordinary scouring process.
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
FEDTOH, CUMHIK * CO., IEUWE.
BLACK, RED, and BLUE (in 8-
PRICE IN MELBOURNE «•
„ SYDNEY <E. Rich & Co., Ltd.) »
„ BRISBANE <E. Rich & Co., Ltd.) -
„ HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.)
Cases):
M 4/a per Gallon,
■4/-
4/-
4=/-
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
as wen as Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers,
::' : V
as
I
m
m
HAVE IKT STOCK
All Kinds of Engineers’Fittings and Supplies
Wood Pulleys
Shafting
Hangers
Plummer
dollars
ism
1 >
Drills
Reamers
Wrenches
V&IVGS
Oster Stocks and Dies and Taps, Crane Hinged Pipe Vyces, Emery
Wheels and Grinders, aiS kinds of Lubricators, Starrett Fine
SVlechanical Tools, etc., etc., etc.
Write for Prices to 60 CEarence-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
ADVT
ADVT
ADVT
Sufferers from Deafness or poises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to The L. R. VERNON CO.
60 HUNTER RT., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet descibing an entirely dpv; self-
applied method which we will send post
free on mentioning this paper.
H. P. KREGOR9 8 CO.
Machinery Merchants,
Melbourne li Sydney.
HAVE IN STOOK-
Blake’s Steam Pumps.
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery.
Mundy’s Hoisting Engines-
Empire Oo. ; s Laundry Machinery-
American “All Steel” Pulleys-
Harris c ‘ Champion ” Lubricating Oils.
Mason Reducing Valves-
Ludlow Sluice Valves-
Kortings Injectors and Ejectors*
Taiiite Emery Wheels.
NERVOUSNESS'
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS Of SELF
CURE, will forward the same, free of
Charge, to anyone interested.
Address: A. MINER, G.P.0.. BYDNBY.
RARE.
ROOKS
J
FRENCH,
ENGLISH,
GERMAN,
2/-
Largest Catalogue, with
Specimen Photo. Apply
Box 116 Paris.
Thelßaplin* Hand Ice Machine
Ice produced by simply turning handle. A decanter
of water made ice cold in 3 minutes. No risk, no trouble.
Invaluable in the country, where ice cannot be bought.
The * Abbott* Filter
Stops all disease germs. Makes the foulest water pure
and wholesome. Easily cleaned. Erom 22s 6d-
Fall Particulars on application to
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
Sole Agents. 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. IOkS. TERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
and
Dinner Parties
ADVTADVTADVT
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WTMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. LaFjjesb Hotel
Acco mnvocßttaon in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF few
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or'from 2 Guineas per Week.
