

ALE.
'
-
LAMB’S
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best
sdfsd
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
X£. 6. WATKISTS dC CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
KUSTOFS Compound Dredge Engina
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
" *
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried in vest
pocket and blown out to life-size (causes roars of
laughter), Ali Baba's Disappearing Jewel Casket, Book of
Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin and Card
Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard Pish (gives
the definition of your character), The Mafeking Grub (or
nerve-stfengthener), and, last of all, that side-splitting
Look. and laugh Glass, Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
Box 3, G.P.0., Haymarket.
H. 1,. HUTCHINSON,
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-street, SYDNEY,
X
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° - 85 pm street, SYDNEY
Have in Stock and to arrive, the following:: Ruston, Proctor & Co.’s Compound Dredge Engines and Boilers, Centrifugal
Pumps, Steel Wire Ropes, Bucket Lip Steel, Tyre Steel, Mild Steel, Manganese Steel for Pins and Bushes, &c.
Buckets, Grab Hooks, Links, Grab Hook Points, Tumblers, &c., made to order. OSBORN’S STE£EL"CASTINGS.
ENGINES & BOILERS, &C., FOR GOLD DREDGING
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831.
WHISKY.
B
A
HOBART.
——
jjadley’s Orient jjotel.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(First Grade).
J. A. TURNER - - Proprietor.
a
&
PENFOLD’S S.A. WINES.
PENFQLI) & CO. 9 Adelaide; Sydney, 84 JPitt Street; London , 17 Fenehurch Street.
PIONEER
m
LEATHER
/BELTING*
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2 2£ 3 3£ 4 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
-ft -49 ~im V- 1/2 1/6 1/11 2/8 3/4 4/-
VZ 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 2/11 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWIGI & SOM, LTD.,
1117 York-street, SYDNEY.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
- Lamp,
EDIS
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LITE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
the mm & m
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-street.
WYNYAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildings, Edward-st., Brisbane
THE
‘PLUM’
pro
THE
* PLUM’
rjENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RSERIS STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7a 6d.
“RAZOLES” MetFftOTftG RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Pujok /Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 108 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 2fa
l Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 3Da.
Reoistered and sent Post Free to ant part op the World.
OF” Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sol® Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 880 George-st., Sydney.
PROOF
sft
USE
I#*
Head Office:
to BUCK ST., SYDNEY
Joshua’s Boomerang Brandy.
An eminent local physician, in delivering a lecture on “ Alcoholism,” said: “ Our Australian
Brandy has attained a reputation WHICH IS INDISPUTABLE. It has long been recommended
by the London Medical Press—-‘The British Medical Journal’ and ‘The Lancet,’to wit—and
it has been used in many English hospitals, and in the asylums and other institutions under
the Lond'en County Council.”
f!
A NICE PRESENT.
The New Combination PIN-
CUSHION, THIMBLE & REEL
HOLDER, nickel plated, plush
top. Clamps on to any table
by means of a spring l . Price,
only 2s. ; post free.
Star Novelty Company,
229-231 Coliins-st.,
Melbourne.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS.
Queen's Mansions, 25 Beaconsffeld Parade
ST. HILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
i-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
WHEN buying a KEROSENE GAS STOVE insist
on getting a noiseless
fsd
JUPITER
The Very Latest
Invention.
Burns Noiselessly,
Without Smell
or Smoke,
Perfectly Safe.
Obtained First Prize
wherever eochibited.
Stocked by all Leading- Hardware Merchants and
Storekeepers.
Sole Agents for Australasia —
Nelson and Robertson,
17 LOFTUS ST., SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vo) 23.—N0. 1174. j
[Saturday, August 16, 1902.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


* “ Limitless Man ” : by Helen Wilmans. From Geo.
Robertson and Co., Sydney.
THE LATEST BnnkQ n-r
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Raine (Allen), The Welsh Witch, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, postage 6d
Hope (Graham), Lord Winchenden, 2s' 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Galvayne, War Horses, 3s fid, p. 4d.
Atherton (Gertrude), The Conqueror, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Hiorus, Metallagraphy, 6s, p. 6d.
% °yp^f B Swamp, 2s 6d &3s 6d, postage 6<L
St. Aubyn (Alan), The Scarlet Lady, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6dL
Waineman, Heroine from Finland, 3s 6d, p. 6d. '
JBlackmore, Lorna Doone, (cheap edition) 6d, p. 2d
Combined Training, War Office, 1902, Bd, p. id.
** jor any nook or Magazine you want.
rt > KArw ST evriMFv tA. o ?t e alwa v s pleased to answer Inquiries.
71 cASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY (4 Doors South of King St.) &at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane &
“Cbe Breaker”
Bis Uerses
and tetters
$
With Memoir by
u Frank Renar.”
“ BUSHMAN & BUCCANEER—Harry Morant,
His ’Ventures and Verses ”
gives the Life and Writings of “The Breaker.” A first
impression of 5000 has now been exhausted, and
The Second Edition is Now Ready.
A BOOK which EVERY AUSTRALIAN should have.
Wholesale from EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE.
Retail from all Booksellers, and Post-Free from
“ The Bulletin ” Office Is, Id.
The Bulletin publications.
Forwarded to any address in return for postal
notes, stamps, or P. 0.0. for prices stated.
Send Id. stamp for The Bulletin Book Circular,
Jo. F..
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages; price, 4s, (id.;. postage, fid.
The Bulletin Reciter:
By Eighty Bulletin Bards. With illus-
trations by “Hop,” N. Lindsay, A. J.
Fischer, F. Leist, D. H. Souter, and H.
McCrae. In handsome doth, decorated.;
price, ss. ; postage,. 4dr
Castro’s Last Sacrament and Other
Stories:
By Albert Doiirington (“ Alba Dorion ”).
A handsome volume of 350 pages, bound in
cloth, decorated; price 4s. 6d. ; postage, 7d.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). New
Issue. With about eighty illustrations by
Mahony, Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher
and Fullwood ; 6s. ; postage, Bd. “ The
jolliest book yet printed in Australia.”
Pair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. New Issue. Blue
cloth, blue edges, with portrait; price, ss. ;
postage, sd. *** A charming presentation
volume.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top ; price,
55.; postage, 3d. *** Australia’s best book,
of sea and sailor verse.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H.. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; price, 55.; postage, 3d. *** The best
book of Maoriland verse yet published.
The Last of Six:
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By Ernest
Favenc. Paper covers, 141 pp. ; price, 6d.;
postage, 2d.
A Rose of Regret:
Verses by James Hebblethwaite ; being
No. II of The Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped, Is. 6d. ; postage, Id,
At Dawn and Dusk:
By V. J. Daley. In handsome cloth,
with portrait. Price 55.; postage, 4d.
THE BULLETIN BOOKS.
Sole Distributing Agents :
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
Special Wholesale Agents :
New South Wales .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
Queensland ... .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd
Victoria Georoe Robertson Proprietary.
Tasmania Georoe Robertson Proprietary.
South Australia .. E. S. Wioa & Son.
Westralia .. .. E. S. Wigo & Son.
Auckland and district Wildhan, Lyell, & Abet.
Others to be appointed.
Sold by All Leading Booksellers.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
214 George-st., Sydney,. Australia.
HUDSONS EUMEN7HOL JUJUBES
FOR THE THROAT! THE VOICE! THE LUNGS!
Miss AMY CASTLES writes:—“l have used your Eumenthol
Jujubes and have found them invaluable for the throat, par-
ticularly in case of colds.
1 should like to recommend them to all singers.”
THE RED PAGE.
The Will and the Flesh.
CHRISTIAN Science, Metaphysical Heal-
311°l ■; l aitl ' Healing, and a few other
such ideas, more or less tainted with
quackery and chicanery, have been pro-
mulgated during the last 100 years as new dis-
coveries with much industry and fervour of advo-
cacy. All depend on the one thing, essentially :
all have some truth essentially; the novelty in
each case is m the quackery part of the nostrum,
lhat in man the mind is stronger than the body ;
that mental effort deliberately put forth, or un-
consciously exercised, can make as nothing phy-
sical pain ; that agony is subjective rather than
objective is a truth which phenomena, recorded in
every age but not always perfectly understood,
have conclusively established. That, therefore,
following Mrs. Eedy’s humbug, or the Rev.
pome body or other’s revelation, pain may be
banished from human life, is the “quack” con-
elusion from a sound premise.
The subjectivity of pain may be proved in a
thousand ways. The soldier in the heat of battle,
tne athlete in the excitement of a game, incur
serious wounds, and not only feel for the time no
pain, but are actually unaware of hurt. The mind
» t?o much occupied to allow pain to be felt, and
wi 1 cons ents to it there can be no pain.
W hen that, m a measure accidental and uncon-
trolled pre-occupation can, by discipline of the
mind, be brought in any one person under the
direct command of the will, pain exists no more so
tar as he or she is concerned.
•dm"? / can be traced many stories of
Biblical and Profane history which are ofterbre-
jected by some critics as incredible miracles or
as impudent fables. The youths who walked un-
harmed in a fiery furnace, the healings of the
sick and the palsied, of the blind and the deaf and
the dumb, the story of the Roman soldier who,
ii! re a^ death, held his hand to burn in
the flame of a torch, are all possible—even the
first one (though it is to an extreme extent im-
probable)—when the true relations of mind and
matter are understood. With that understanding,
mo, comes the possibility of belief in the calmness
of martyrs like St. Lawrence, who, being killed
by grilling, calmly observed to his tormentors
that “he was sufficiently done on one side and
they might now turn him. In fact, the possi-
bilities of fanaticism or other mental exaltation in
making people insensible to physical pain are just
as commonly recognised now as the power of
mental disturbance to cause intense agony with-
out any actual physical lesion.
The seat of pain has been established by modern
science to be m the mind instead of in the body.
A sufficiently strong and well-balanced mind can,
theoretically, defy all pain, just as can the rapt
mind of the fanatic. What it is necessary to keep
ffi v^ew ’ fr° m the outset, is, however, that
that strength of mind does not necessarily
depend on any fanaticism, and can exist—
can, in fact, only exist as a stable and
reliable condition—independent of fanaticism.
Religious or other hysteria may give the mental
pre-occupation which lifts the body above pain for
a while, as alcohol may give a passing Courage
and anger a passing strength. But it is a sign o ’
mental weakness rather than of mental strength
and possibly does greater physical and menta
damage than any degree of pain. A healthy man
does not need to turn to it for relief from pain, anj
more than to take morphia to secure sleep. When
the value of mental discipline is understood—
when people learn to train their wills as well as
their bodies, and begin to know how much they
can do, or refuse to do, by mere will-force
the conquest of pain will have begun.
In “Limitless Man” Helen Wilmans puts
forward with the eagerness of a discoverer this
old truth, and manages to make her argument very
clear and convincing, in spite of a good deal of
“jargon.” It is a fault of the Anglo-Saxon
character that it is ever inclined to preach and to
put forward ideas as religions. Even agnosticism
in the hands of an earnest Anglo-Saxon becomes
something which calls for a pulpit and a collection
plate. Putting - aside Helen Wilman’s preaching,
she has some most astounding examples to adduce
of the conquest of the mind over the body. The
mcredible seems to be reached bv “the fiery
ordeal of Fiji ” (men walking unscathed over
white-hot stones) which is said to be carried through
as a rite in Fiji, and parts of Japan and India also.
But there is nothing, even in it, that can be posi-
tively set down as impossible in the light of facts
which are above all question. A hundred and
one ills which bid defiance to medicine have proved
amenable to religious hysteria or mental discipline;
the power of the mind over the body has been fur-
ther proved in the existence of pain in limbs
amputated years before. Why should not the
mind, proved strong enough to resist pain, also, to
an extent, be able to prevent lesions of the flesh ?
The Gentle Art of Criticism .
BATtTKDAY REVIEW” recently, in an
article, “Poets to the Trade,” made a
sharp attack on Stephen Phillips and his
work. It was a tirade of abuse with a
thin streak of criticism running through. A
few days later the Quarterly, appeared with a re-
view of Phillips’ work written in a similar strain.
This “ The .Slasher ’’ pointed out as a striking con-
firmation of its own particular views, and hinted
that Phillips was now in a .fair way to being
dragged off his pedestal. At this stage Sidney
Colvin showed, by means of parallel columns, that
the two articles were by the same writer, whole
passages in the one being identical with passages
in the other. A busy-bee happened to have more
stings than one. The laugh was made whole-
hearty by the lameness of the subsequent editorial
retort, which, after prefacing that an editor alone
was responsible for what appeared in his columns,
fumed and shrieked at Colvin for his “imper-
tinence ” in going behind an editor’s authority—
i.e., impeaching the prestige of the “respectable”
critical press.
The Saturday Review is the perfect expression
of that domineering, academic spirit which passes
current for criticism in England to-day, and which
is so destructive of all that is spontaneous and
original in art. Its authority arises from the fact
that it caters for those of the sheepish, parsonic
type whose aim in life is mainly to abide by what
they are told. Such an atmosphere is a deadly
enemy to art but a tender nurse to philistinism.
It is a legitimate result of the public-school cult,
the traditions of which permeate every department
of English public life. England is very jealous of
her public-school tradition ; and well she might
be, for it is the one thing that gives any kind of
individuality to her public life. In accordance
with the fashion set by Walters, of The Times , it
suits that section of England’s plutocracy which
runs her newspapers to staff their journals with
Oxford and Cambridge men of the deepest
dye, whose ability is conspicuous, but who
carry into their work the worst and most
blighting kind of class prejudice. Their
training, enlarging as it is in some respects, has a
marked tendency to narrow the outlook. There
is something occult in their unutterable supe-
riority, which inexorably bars emulation and has
the same disconcerting effect as the “hawty”
British stare has on the affable outsider. Any-
thing which does not accord precisely with the
pattern sanctioned by their eclecticism is beyond
the pale of reasonable consideration. Their
slender equipment of mother wit is so overladen
with a vast range of acquirements and clogged
with tradition that they resent spontaneity and
originality in others. Striking merit not of the
approved kind only calls forth blunderbuss
criticism, and, if particularly prominent, a kind of
donkey wit.
The truth is that there is in England no robust
public opinion in the field of art and letters. And,
if the present state of affairs were to continue, the
establishment of an English Academy would be a
calamity, for where there is no public opinion
there is no logical necessity for an institution
whose chief function should be the intelligent ex-
pression of educated opinion. The establishment
of such an institution would, as things stand, be
the death warrant of merit. Dominated by the
political or social gang of the moment it would be
for the choking-off of all merit not of the right sort
®*jd the encouragement of a glorified mediocrity.
Ihe enervated state of public opinion in England
has a striking exemplification in the fact that
Kipling has never challenged real criticism, never
even provoked any kind of discussion beyond a
hoarse roar of acclamation. The business of the
modern critic is to know where sits the wind—the
bawdy wind that kisses every cheek it meets.
H.
Shelley as a Poet of the People.
Thus Gr. C. Whitney :
Shelley (whose anniversary date was Aug. 4th)
is essentially an idealist, but so far from being a
mere secluded lover of the beautiful and a prophet
of certain vague ideals, he is first and last a demo-
cratic poet. Mr. G. Saintsbury, in his “ History
of English Literature,” makes the strange state-
ment that chance only, caused Shelley to espouse
the cause of democracy, and that he might equally
well have been a high Tory. But, so far from
being the expression of a mere mood of the
moment, Shelley’s democracy coloured almost all
he wrote, and in many places is a direct protest
against the conservative reaction which followed
the French Revolution. Where is the case for the
peopie more strongly put than in these stanzas of
the ‘ Song to the Men of England ” ;
Men of England, wherefore plough
For the lords who lay ye low ?
Wherefore weave with toil and care
The rich robes your tyrants wear ?
Wherefore feed and clothe and save,
From the cradle to the grave,
Those ungrateful drones who would
Drain your sweat—nay, drink your blood' 1
Wherefore, Bees of England, forge
Many a weapon, chain, and scourge,
That these stingless drones may spoil
The forced produce of your toil ?
The seed ye sow another reaps ;
The wealth ye find another keeps ;
The robes ye weave another weats ;
The arms 3e forge another bears.
Sow seed —but let no tyrant reap ;
Find wealth—but let no impostor heap •
Weave robes—let not the idle wear ; ’
Forge arms, in your defence to bear.
More remarkable still is the “Masque of
Anarchy ' Shelley consistently condemned the
evils of the England of his day, and persistently
spurred on the oppressed masses to revolt.
“ Queen Mab ” and “ The Revolt of Islam ” are
democratic to the core. And the whole meaning
ot Hellas is expressed in the magnificent
stanzas which form the concluding chorus I
quote one:—
Another Athens shall arise,
And to remoter time
Bequeath, like sunset to the skies,
The splendour of its prime ;
And leave, if naught so bright may live,
All earth can take or heaven can give.
Has ever the hope of the future been better sung’
Democracy may well be proud of the lonely
lshmael who worked, suffered and waited for the
dawn. Wrong still sits in high places, but
ilemocracy has m its thinkers, workers, martyrs
prophets of the past, a host who have forged the
weapons it may wield, pointed to it the path it
iu ay S? ne of them was more notable
than Shelley. The “Masque of Anarchy” gives
a fine motto to Democracy :
Rise like lions after slumber
In unvanquishable number—
Shake your chains to earth like dew
Which in sleep hath fallen on you—
¥e are many—they are few.
“Frank P.”: Re Democracy. If “A.M.” (B
19/7/’O2) is pleased to look upon our present
regime as a Democracy, then Aristophanes was
aptly quoted. But we have no Democracy— not
even an ignorant one, and “A.M.” surely must
have been trying to pull our aggregate leg when
penning that ominous warning of disaster in her
concluding 1 lines. An intelligent Democracy is not
yet born, and will not be for a long time The
Age is not even mature for its conception.
The refusal of the Licenser of Plays to pass
Maeterlinck’s “ Monna Vanna ” recalls the occa-
sion of the passing of the Licensing Act by Robert
Walpole m 1738. The manager of a London
theatre brought him a farce called “The Golden
Kump, either to ask his advice or extort money
for its non-performance. Walpole detained the
manuscript, and having made a number of pro-
fane, seditious, and blasphemous extracts, read
them to the House, and without further trouble
the Bill was passed. At various times the
“(Edipus Rex” of Sophocles, “The Cenci” of
Shelley (one of the greatest plays in the English
language since Shakespeare), and the “Ghosts”
of Ibsen (one of the greatest of modern prose-
dramas), and now Maeterlinck’s best and greatest
work, “ Monna Vanna,” have been condemned.
H. : Wemyss Reid’s Biog. of William Black is
good. Black began as a journalist on the Glasgow
Citizen. He figured in an episode almost exactly
like that of Pendennis and the Eotheringay. This
disgusted him with Glasgow, and he went to
London. The affair obviously suggested his novel
of Macleod of Dare,” but both the actress and
her admirer are very different from the models.
When Black thought he had developed a com-
plete mastery of his trade his readers fell away.
Same with novelists in general. How few are so
lucky as Cervantes, finding the gold-reef at the
end. A quartette of novels which can be named
by his admirers, destroyed Black’s nerves. Trol-
lope never had any. He could have gone on
carpentering novels till now.
«£*
OF FAME.
He won the heights he long had held in view
And wore the wreath of bay ;
But dearer were the roses and the rue
Gathered along the way.
Ellen Gray Barbour.
Jt
Leon Brodzky on the drama :
The classical method, of which the “ CEdipus Rex ” is
the supreme model, did not consist merely of a rigid
adherence to what are called the “unities.” The
“ unities ” arise from the method, and do not constitute
the method. If it is recognised that drama does not con-
sist in telling a story by a series of scenes, but in select-
ing the essential situations, as Sophocles and other great
dramatists did, less nonsense would be talked about the
“ unities,” which obviously must hamper the writer of
plays, which are more story than drama. Plot is not
story or subject-matter, but that part of the story which
embodies the central idea. In the history, say, of
CEdipus there are many situations, one of which is the
discovery by the King that he himself is the God-
accursed criminal. And it is only that one situation
worked out with necessary amplification that Sophocles
deals with. A string of events such as one finds in nearly
every play is not drama. Happenings that one can see
do not constitute drama. The actual drama lies between
the incidents or happenings of a play. Ibsen is like
Sophocles in his methods. In “Ghosts” the scene
throughout the play is the one room, and the action is
finished within 12 hours ; but that is a very superficial
way of. explaining the resemblance. The classical form,
adopted by Ibsen, lies really in the selection of
the one culminating situation out of the story stretch-
ing back to the years before the birth of Oswald.
One of the “ story-telling dramatists ” would, no doubt,
have introduced us to Captain Alving, and worked his
way from Genesis to Revelations ; whereas dramatic art,
like all other art, is only Revelations. Max Nordau, in
“ Degeneration,” notes the peculiarity of Ibsen’s method,
but fails to appreciate its value. He says Ibsen writes a
play as if he were preparing an explosion. The explosives
are all properly arranged and the wires connected. Then,
when it is time to start, the electric current is switched
on, and you have your play. Nordau is, of course,
prejudiced against Ibsen, and cannot see the beauty of
the method, leaving aside all questions of philosophy.*
The branch of art that tells stories is the epical and the
narrative. A drama should be like a picture. It should
not tell a story. Yet, there must be a story from which
to select the situation that will reveal the dramatic idea.
As much of the story as is necessary to make the situation
clear will have to be told, or rather indicated. It is here
that the supreme artist will show his genius. In Greek
drama, the inferior artist Euripides had to resort to the
device of a long prologue to tell the story. In the “ CEdipus
Rex,” what is called the prologue is really the opening
scene. Still, it would be a great mistake to think that
everything in the way of story and incident should be
rigorously excluded. The dramatist should only remember
that, in writing a play, his business is not to tell a story.
A sculptor seizes upon that one moment when the body
is the incarnation of an idea, and reproduces it in marble.
A painter snatches that one moment from all the moments
which shows him a face or a landscape as he wants it for
the expression of his thought or emotion. And so the
dramatist must select from all the multitudinous happen-
ings of life that one “ time in the affairs of man ” which
to his imagination holds “ infinity in the palm of the
hand.”
Some Correspondents—
Wealsman : Apropos “ What is Truth ” (B. 31/5/’O2), it
would be easy to fill a volume with instances of “ honest
mistake” even among the trained memories of pressmen.
I know a Bulletin contributor of many years standing
whose “ forgettery” is in such splendid order that he
often mistakes what he reads for something he has
written. When he reads his Bulletin he marks his own
contributions for charging up. Should the charging up
be delayed for two weeks he is sure to find several pars
whose features seem so familiar that he takes them for his
own and wonders how he came to miss them in the first
prospecting. Experience (and probably Bulletin account-
ant) has taught him that it is safest to rely on the first
search, so he seldom claims for his later discoveries.
Explanation is that the matter isalwavs such as he might
easily have written ; his mind retains broad facts but
distorts or loses grip of details. One distorted detail is,
•that something he once knew he never wrote becomes
something he honestly thinks he did write.
[On other hand writer of “ What is Truth ” can recgnise
at five years interval the smallest par he has written ; but
can’t keep in mind any dates, even the date of his own
birth-year or birthday. Memories are curious things ; and
the law (which is, in this respect, an ass) treats them as
though they were fixed quantities in a mathematical
equation.]
J.P. : Apropos of par. (24/5/’O2) re literary agents and
the sale of Australian work in London. Ambrose Pratt
never said that a literary agent was a necessity. Provided
that they can rob the author and get his productions for
next to nothing, English publications.are only too anxious
to secure Australian work. It is not difficult to place
good, original work in London, but to get decently paid
for it is another matter. I wrote a few yarns for one of
Newnes’monthly magazines, some of which were accepted.
Editor wrote saying he would always be glad to
consider fiction. Submitted a 3500 word tale which was
advertised in two numbers of the magazine preceding
its appearance, and printed with great flourish and a per-
sonal par. concerning the author. Received three guineas
for it, and had to pay three shillings exchange. There
are men writing for that magazine who don’t accept less
than three guineas per 1000 words ; but if an Australian
submits work (often of greater value on account of its
originality) direct, he has to be content with 17s. 6d. per
1000. But an agent always secures the market value for
the work he sells, and, what is also of great importance,
he studies the interests of his clients, and gives valuable
advice. There are, with his aid, no wearisome delays,
and you are kept well advised as regards what is being
done with your work. An agent may be no more neces-
sary for salvation than a parson, but he can do much
toward keeping Australian writers out of the old men’s
home, and assuredly protects them from being robbed by
the boss thieves of this planet—London publishers.
hrpnH Na,Tl v r ” : would have poets get their
SLZI^ rnah \ t l’ and the “ Red writer o?
/ J/ 02 would give them all fat civil-service billets. There
» tn , Em ? rs ° n ’ s if lea that the seer should
man mT" h ? nds .’ be a far ®er, laborer, husband-
Fme'r«on 1 m . ake hls work stron K and sane. True,
makin^h! 11 awa -y, froni this as he grew older, but Tolstoy,
qc , fnll f “e weulea a part of his religion, has lived it out
with rr Slan count ma T> these many years, and
and t S d „ f d i ; T ai 'i V SU ? oess ' Has not some of the best
bom f Austra, ' an .literature come from men who
humped the swag and toiled in the bush and the diggings ?
£ i?w d ? gl ' Vle are Instances, and is not “ Bards of
wrtrl k^° CkS a standing- heading in The Bulletin. A
writer who earns his bread by hard “graft” does
not know intellectual weariness, and has more free-
fn, vnJV XP -? the besfc that is in hil ‘i than a
rbo «.vir 1 °l Cl V.L S , ervant If manual labor tends to leave
■mV' ”• JP-? IRfc . ]e time for contemplation, Emerson’s
a ~’ < i? ?* : Let him learn to eat his meals standing, and
to relish the taste of fair water and black bread.” There
may be some unfit for such heroism and yet capable of
Srfh'rr/e‘ at ou £ ht , to be written. They must make shift
with that one of the hindering modes of life which hinders
their peculiar genius least.


WOOL
WINGHCOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN,
s Y D 3NT E 3 Y.
fDougairs Fruit-Tree UJashes
Chief Agents: F, LASSETTER & CO*
INS
Kangaroo,
Wallaby,
Rabbit,
Opossum.
SEND ALL SKINS TO
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY,
The Leading Salesmen. Full Values mid Quick Keturns.
SPECIAL KTOTICB.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & COMPANY Ltd.
SYDNEY.
Compare our Reduced Produce Charges
with those of
other Brokers.
Our Reduced Charges.
3 per cent,
per cent,
per cent,
per cent,
per cent.
3| per cent.
f”- ~ c d»du 4 oer cent. (Minimum 4s per ton)
5 Inpru^LMl, L.„ H.t M ,..tei,... m*^»Z»*£>2Si!2.
SSS MAIDES. top
Old Charges.
4 per cent.
4 per cent.
1h per cent.
4 per cent.
5 per cent.
5 per cent
HIDES
SHEEPSKINS 3
TALLOW (£lOO and over) 2
TALLOW (under £100) 3
HAIR, HORNS, BONES, &C. 4
FURRED SKINS
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILUP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMONT.
sole 3 Per Cent, to the G-rowera.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge jd. per lb. to the Buyers.
4 T-gIK- - -mf—H——’"■ill I ' ""*" ———————
The Bulletin Story Book.
A Handsome Cloth-bound Volume of over 300 pages. The best
collection of Short Stories and Literary Sketches yet produced in
Australia. Price, 4s. 6d. Wholesale : Edwards, Dunlop and Co.
WONDERFUL VALUE IN CIGARS.
SINGLE BOX AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
GUARANTEE: EVERY CIGAR SOUND AND IN PERFECT CONDITION.
Goods Exchanged or Money Returned.
CIGARS
ROMA QUEENS
LA PAROLA, Reliable Smoke ..
HIGH LIFE MENDOZAS
NIMROD REINA VICTORIA ..
LA SPECIAL, from Choicest Leaf
SANTIAGO LA FLOR, Fine Quality
“LEOLA,” Borneo, Mild Smoking
“ EL RIVAL,” Borneo, Full Flavor
HEAVY WEIGHTS (P. De Mendoza)
“PERLA” BOUQUET ..
“EL MUNDO” (Rothschilds)
“MENDOZA” (Rothschilds)
“PERLA” (Rothschilds)
“MINERVA” No. 1 MANILA ..
“WINDSOR LADY” (Manila Regalia)
“PERLA MINERVA,” MANILA, Fine Quality
FLOR DE NAVES (Havana Reina) .
HENRY CLAY (Havana Couchas, Extra)
DELIVERED FREE OF DUTY AND CHARGES.
Post Free
N.S.W.
Post Free Usual Retail
Other States. Price.
s. d. s. d.
10 4 12 e
10 8 H 6
13 8 20 0
13 8 20 0
13 8 20 0
15 8 25 0
15 8 25 0
15 8 25 0
17 8 28 6
19 2 30 0
21 8 32 0
26 2 32 0
26 2 32 0
16 2 25 0
19 8 28 6
25 8 32 0
•29 8 34 0
36 0 45 0
SEND FOR
OUR
LIST
OF
c.s.b:
BRIAR
PIPES
MICK SIMMONS,
TOBACCO MERCHANT and IMPORTER, Haymarket, SYDNEY.
Tobacconists and Storekeepers may obtain ♦Wholesale_Ust_on_app»ioation^
Liberal Allowances
when required.
Accurate
Valuations.
WOOL
Selling Brokers.
PROMPT
RETURNS A
SPECIALITY.
HARRISON, JONES & DEVLIN, Ltd.
Special Attention to
details.
Weights carefully
taken.
Principals
having over 30 Years’
Experience Conduct
All Wool Sales.
Offices and Stores:
Circular Quay
Sydney.
Just
Published.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Mo rant
His ’Ventures
and Verses.
Price 1/1
Post
Free.
By FRANK RENAR.
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney.
WHY WARNER’S SAFE CURE CURES.
RHEUMATISM
GOUT
NEURALGIA
LUMBAGO
BACKACHE
SCIATICA
BLOOD DISORDERS
ANAEMIA
INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS
SICK HEADACHE
GENERAL DEBILITY
GRAVEL
BLADDER TROUBLES
BRIGHT’S DISEASE
For the full understanding of the curative action
of Warner’s Safe Cure, it is necessary to bear in
mind the processes of nature by which human life
is maintained. Reduced to their essential prin-
ciples, these processes are simply the wasting and
renewal of the tissues of the body.
It is absolutely necessary to life that the body
should waste away, and that its substance should
be renewed by food, water, and fresh air. Night
and day this proeess of waste and replaceman goes
on unceasingly. Every time a man draws breath
his body gains in weight by the oxygen, etc., taken
from the air, and every time he breathes out it
loses weight by the carbonic acid and moisture
given forth.
Insensibly, too, the body is losing weight all the
time. You can prove this by placing your hand
on a cold piece of polished glass, when you will
see that moisture given forth by the skin has con-
densed. Were the body to be entirely covered
with a coat of waterproof varnish, death would
quickly result.
Apart from the skin and lungs, the organs em-
ployed in this process of waste are the kidneys and
, liver, and the maintenance of those organs in
thorough working order is the grand secret of good
health.
The Kidneys. —The function which the kidneys
perform is to filter the blood and otherwise
separate from it the surplus water and the various
impurities which it contains. These impurities
are urea, uric acid, and mineral matter, which,
with water, constitute the urine.
When the kidneys have done their work, the
purified blood is delivered to the veins, and is
returned to the heart, having in its course
traversed the body and become laden with a fresh
supply of waste matter. The hpart again delivers
the blood to the kidneys, which once more filter
it and extract the impurities. This process is
continuous.
The Liver.— I The part the liver plays in the
process of waste is chiefly the manufacturing from
the blood the liquid called “Bile,” which is
delivered by the liver into the intestines, and acts
as a natural cathartic.
The liver and kidneys are very sensitive organs.
Sudden chills, fever, alcoholic intemperance, and
tropical heat are all liable to congest the liver and
reduce it to an abnormal condition. The kidneys
are exceedingly susoeptible to inflammation. An
ordinary feverish cold, which doses the pores and
hinders the skin in performing its share in the
removal of the waste products of the body, throws
a burden of extra work upon the kidneys which
they may be unable to perform. Influenza, or
any kind of fever, taxes the kidneys unduly, and
may cause them to break down under the strain.
Any inflammation of the kidneys is very apt to
affeot the liver, and vice versa.
Should the liver or kidneys, or both, become
unable to fulfil their purpose thoroughly, then the
blood becomes laden with urinary and biliary
poisons, which are oarried to every part of the
body.
Sometimes these poisons become deposited in
the joints or tissues, and cause Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Sciatica, or Gout. In other cases the
blood, being contaminated, is in an unfit condition
to absorb nutriment, which causes Anaemia,
Neuralgia, digestive troubles, and Debility. In
other cases the supply of bile to the intestines
being inadequate, Constipation, with its attendant
evils result; in others, Biliousness. In others
again the impurity of the blood develops boils and,
skin eruptions. Sometimes the uric acid is
deposited in the kidneys and produces Stone,
Gravel, and urinary and bladder troubles.
The reason, then, that Warner’s Safe Cure cures
so many apparently diverse disorders is that they
all proceed from one cause, namely—the inability
of the kidneys or liver to do their work properly,
and so rid the blood of these poisons in the
manner provided by nature.
Warner’s Safe Cure has complete mastery over
functional and chronic liver and kidney derange-
ments, and by restoring those vital organs to
health and activity, does away with the cause of
these several complaints. When the kidneys and
liver are efficiently carrying out the wonderful
scheme of work allotted to them by nature, none
of the disorders here enumerated can exist.
A pamphlet containing fuller particulars
relating to Warner’s Safe Cure and the diseases it
cures will be sent post free to any address on
application to H. H. Warner and Co., Limited,
Australasian Branch, 52.3 to 532 Little Lonsd.de
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.


Discovered by Christopher Mudd, F.L.S., F.R.G.S., M.B.Ph.S., London, Botanist to the King of
Lngland during Hib Majesty’s Indian Tour.
Eczema OLEAG
Cutes this terrible itching complaint.
Not a grease. Does not stain the linen.
Full directions each jar. Jars, 4/6 ; post, 4/10
Used in the Melbourne Homoeopathic
Hospital with success.
ANTHOS
”
FOR
THE
HAIR
Not a Grease, purely Botanical.
Written testimony from well-known medical men.
One bottle in daily use lasts about 4 months.
"Anthos” prevents Hair falling out, Dandruff,
and Irritation. Bottles, 2/6 ; posted, 3/3.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND
Melbourne : Foy & Gibson and all Chemists
Sydney: Pattinson & Co. (all branches)
Park & Son, i<;6 Pitt Street.;
Depot: M. H. Horwitz, 34 Pitt Street.
New Zealand : C. L. Best, Ponsonby, Auckland.
Adelaide: Harris & Kemp, Arcade.
Brisbane: Taylor & Colledge Ltd.
Perth : Foy & Gibson.
Colonial Representative : Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
& ROUSE PROPRIETARY, Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane
CHE Largest Manufacturers
and Importers of the Best
Continental and American
Photographic Requisites in
the Commonwealth.
All Leading Lines in Photographic,
Phonographic and Optical In-
struments, and latest Novelties.
A Staff of Skilled Mechanics who can Refit and Repair
anything. r
Sole Agents m Australasia for Ross, Ltd., London and Paris.
Baker and Rouse Proprietary, Ltd.,
375 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BAKER
fs
ROBERTS’ HOTEL, you enjoy your lunch
George and Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
APARTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
Single Room,, with Full Board, Bs. per
day, or £2 2s. per week.
TERMS.—The convenient
system of paying- -for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had.
When you come to Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms ; and you not only
en j°y it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is.—and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.3 o—from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
ENO’S
HEALTH GIVING,
COOLING,
‘FRUIT
REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING.
df
THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT where it has been
taken in the earliest stages of a disease, it has in
innumerable instances, PREVENTED what would other-
wise have been a SERIOUS ILLNESS.
CAUTION.— See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.' Without it you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON ENG
by J. O. ENO’S Patent. ’ *
2h.p. to 100h.p.
MARINE OIL ENGINES.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
J. F.
Telephone 2671.
WITH THE KING ENCINE- ONE LEVER CONTROLS THE WHOLE
3MC c I * l- : H Tvr c~> T" •nr* jp
X T & COMFAKTY
37 MARKET STREET, SYJDJXTEY.
Noiseless Uuderwater .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo..
A Sluggish Liver
AND
Hsepatic Dyspepsia.
A Radical Cure in Woolloomooloo.
The Case ot
Mrs. E. WILLIAMS
(by a SPECIAL REPORTER.)!
Our special recently saw Mrs. Emily
Williams, of No. 4 Yurong-sireet, East
Sydney, with reference to a matter of con-
siderable importance to the public. On
Mrs. Williams announcing that she had a
few minutes to spare, the following con-
versation took place :
Reporter: “ I desire to learn the exact
particulars about the troubles you ex-
perienced some years ago.”
Mrs Williams : “ That is about the time
that I was so ill. Well, I hardly know
what to say to you, because my sufferings
extended over three years, and I could not
explain them in a few words.”
Reporter: “I shall be all the more pleased
if you will go into detail.”
. Mrs - Williams : “ Very well, then, I will
P v ® tl , le history of my case from start
to finish. When my health began to fail I
noticed myself getting very languid and
drowsy, with a feeling as soon as I got up
m the mornings that I wanted to go back to
bed again, and not caring to do any work at
all. I thought that perhaps I was run
down through overwork, and that all I
required was a good rest, but after takina
matters very quietly for a while I found
that I was no better. The weariness was
still upon me, and my spirits were be-
coming more depressed every day. I did
not want to go out shopping or picnicing,
neither had I any desire for any amuse-
ment There was no vitality in my body
to enable me to do anything, and many a
time I felt as if I could simply lie down
and die, as every pleasure in life went away
from me. Even the privilege of enjoying
my food was denied me, for my mouth was
thick with a bitter substance, which was
especially noticeable on my tongue and
everything had a sickly taste. Besides I
had no appetite worth mentioning, a couple
of mouthfuls always proving sufficient to
turn me away from the table in disgust, yet
in spite of the small quantity I had eaten
the pains I felt were something cruel
bpasms of wind often bent me double, and
l felt as if I was smothering through
a heavy feelmg in my chest. When the
food had been in my stomach a little while
it became sour, for I could taste it in the
wind which rose up and caused me to belch
and soon afterwards I started to retch and
retch till everything was vomited back
again.
Reporter : “ Those ailments were the real
secret of your weakness.”
Mrs. Williams : “ Beyond all doubt; and
1 did get miserably weak and thin, I can
tell you. From nine stoue two pounds I
fell away to seven stone, so you may believe
that I was nothing but a living skeleton
and my skin was quiie shrunken and nearly
yellow. Such a drawn and haggard face I
had, too, clearly showing that I passed
many nights in sleeplessness and agony,
with my head aching incessantly till I
was nearly driven out of my mind. It
would not be correct to say that I never
slept, as I sometimes slumbered for three
or four hours right off; but what sort of
deep was it ? It was like an ucffy night-
mare right through, for the dreams I had
actually frightened me when I thought of
them in my waking moments. How
wretched it was to be everlastingly think-
ing of some undefinable misery that was in
store for me—that I would never be well
and happy again. Why, my feebleness had
so far advanced that if I walked a few yards
I had to stand and rest till I felt able to go on
a little further, and frequently giddiness
overtook me so that I staggered as I walked
Often and often my sight was almost gone,
as there was nothing before me but a black
mist which hung before my eyes, and when
such experiences were made all the more
terrifying by my heart palpitating and pain-
ing roe I was afraid to walk any further
\or fear that I might drop down dead. The
palpitations were so violent that I could
auily get my breath, and my gasping was
a waj's accompanied by excessive trembling
tor my nervous system was broken down
completely. Right under my shouldei
blades there was a sharp pain which hurt
me greatly, and about my loins there was a
never ceasing ache. Death would have
been welcome so that my privations could
have ended, but it was not to be that I
should die. 5 ’
Reporter: “You say you were lingering
tor three years but surely you got some
relief occasionally ? ”
Mrs Williams : ‘ 1 The only relief I got wag
when I bought my first bottle of Clements
ionic, for when I had finished it I imagined
1 felt somewhat comforted. It was a strange
sensation which came over me, and one
which left me in a state of doubt. I felt
slightly easier, but not sufficiently so to
make it clear that Clements Tonic would
save me, and I hesitated about getting any
more; but when I remembered that the
advice and medicine given to me by four
doctors were ineffective, and that I had
taken numberless other medicines and
pills without my condition being improved,
I thought the only sensible thing I could do
was to get some more Clements Tonic. Be-
sides, I had read in the papers about a lady,
who had been an invalid like myself, having
been cured by Clements Tonic, and I
thought if it would cure her it would cure-
me. And that is precisely how I was trans-
formed from a weak and dying mortal to a
strong and happy woman. It did not take
Clements Tonic long to arouse in me a feel-
ing of hunger, although I did not feel too
easy after my meals for several days, but
then the food commenced to digest, and my
tortures began to disappear. My chest felt
lighter, and the smothering sensation passed
away ; my stomach did not pain me with
spasms of wind, and my mouth was tho-
roughly cleansed. There was also some-
thing missing that had caused me a
great amount of anxiety.”
Reporter : “ What was that ? ”
Mrs. Williams: “The palpitation and
pains in my heart; and I am sure it is not
necessary for me to say how devoutly thank-
ful I was to Clements Tonic for having done
me so much good already. It gave me such
sound sleep, too; for, with the removal of
my headaches, there was very little else to
keep me awake, as the pains in my shoulders
had gone, and the aches which resulted
from weakness were driven out by the
strength which Clements Tonic infused into
my system. Such things as retching and
vomiting were soon remedied by Clements
Tonic, and my nervous system was bene-
fited by each dose of that medicine. The
puiifying qualities of Clements Tonic were
demonstrated by the clearness of my com-
plexion, and its ability to mitigate pain was
really marvellous. All I have to say is, that
I owe my life to Clements Tonic; and, as
there are many sufferers who do not know
how to cure themselves, you can publish
this account of my recovery in any way ii
pleases you.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Emily Williams, of 4 Yurong-street, East
Sydney, in the State of New South Wales,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have carefully read
the annexed document, consisting of four folios,
and consecutively numbered from one to four, and
that it contains and is a true and faithful account of
my illness and cure by Clements Tonic ; and also con-
tains my full permission to publish in any way my
statements which I give voluntarily, without
receiving any payment; and I make this solemn de-
claration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Subscribed and declared at East Sydney thi«
EDWARD W. BUTLER, J.p.
THE GREAT EVENT.
HATTE’S CORONATION FAIR
IJiHE
w 1 1 e . 5 .. b 2 nffht ° f descent over Millions of Free-born Britishers, and Hatte. by virtue of
Good Value, exercises a gentle sway over the Ladies of New South Wales. Just now
The Great Coronation Fair
is on
And the People of both High and Low Degree are Rejoicing.
There are £250,000 of Absolute FAIRING BARGAINS and 400 Highly Efficient
Assistants waiting to give a ROYAL WELCOME to the LOYAL LEIGES
of THE KING OF THE DRAPERY TRADE.
Ladies ! come early to the Fair (it will console you for being absent from Westminster) and
send for a Fair Book—the Greatest Bargain List ever published.
C. G. HATTE, Newtown.
“On Our Selection.” By “Steele Rudd.”


The Problem
of Health
Information that often leads to a
quick solution of it
When the health of your child becomes a
problem that seriously presents itself to you,
we can suggest the solution revealed in the
following letter: —
“ 187, Wellgate, Rotherham, England,
“ November 13th, 1900.
« Dear Sirs,—When our baby boy was six
months old he had consumption of the
bowels and appeared to be wasting away,
and became very much emaciated. He was
under treatment for some time, but did not
improve, and we were told that we should
not be able to rear him. A friend brought
us a paper containing one of your advertise-
ments, and asked us to try Scott’s Emulsion,
as the letter revealed how a similar case to
our boy’s had been benefited by your pre-
paration. ~We obtained a bottle and gavo
ARTHUR HARRISON.
(From a photograph.)
him the emulsion according to directions.
Before three days had passed he was a
different child altogether, and continuing
the treatment, he became a strong healthy
boy. In January of the present year he
contracted whooping cough, and had it very
badly. We resorted to his old medicine—•
Scott’s Emulsion —and after he had taken
three bottles he was completely cured. We
ook upon Scott’s Emulsion as a standard
remedy, and if any of the children are not
well, we immediately employ it, and it
never fails to do them good. We have not
the least doubt that Scott’s Emulsion saved
oir boy’s life.
“ (Signed) Arthur Harrison.”
Scott’s Emulsion is a standard household
remedy on account of its wide range of
usefulness. It is effectual in coughs, colds,
weak lungs, bronchitis, consumption, and
all ailments of throat and lungs, and by
enriching the blood it overcomes ansemio
and wasting tendencies. Children thrive
on Scott’s Emulsion when all other forms
of treatment have been unsuccessful. This
remedy seems just what children need to
give them strong digestion and keen appe-
tite, and to bring flesh and strength to the
entire system.
There is only one Scott’s Emulsion, which
is distinguished by our trade mark of a man
holding a big fish over his shoulder. The
merits of Scott’s Emulsion are not exagger-
ated in any degree. The letters written by
people who have used it show clearly what
may be expected from its use.
You can obtain a sample of Scott’s Emulsion
by sending fourpence to Scott & Bowne, Ltd.,
483 Kent-street, Sydney, and mentioning this
paper. All chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
S€NP OS
YOUR PHOTOGRAPH.
JF you send a Photograph of yourself (or friend) to
Mr. Mark Blow, Crown Studios, Sydney,
he will reproduce from it a very beautiful and
Artistically Finished
Permanent Enlargement
In Black and White, equalling a rich Steel Plate
Engraving, handsomely mounted on an Indian-tinted
Plate, sunk mount, and as good in every way as Enlarge-
ments now being supplied at from 30/- to 50/- each, and
will carefully pack it and send it Carriage Paid to any
address in Australia, Tasmania, or New Zealand for 10,6.
Your Photo. Returned with Order.
The Roman
Hair
Restorer
Produces Brown and Black Hair.
Price 1/6 ; by post, 2/3.
An inexpensive and
certain preparation for
renewing and restoring
to its original color the
hair of the head, beard
and whiskers.
Largely used by the Roman ladies tor preserving their
magnificent tresses. Nourishes the roots and removes
dandruff ; increases the quantity, and renders it glossy
and supple ; does not stain the skin nor soil the linen. If
your hair is falling off or turning grey, use this.
CAUTION.—This being different from most prepara-
tions, other kinds should be refused.
JAMES BRINSMEAD and CO., Chemists, ST. HILDA.
All Chemists sell it.
a EVERY MAN
SUFFERING from DEBILITY and WEAKNESS should
send for a valuable Pamphlet explaining how all
Nervous and Organic Derangements may be success-
fully treated without stomach medication. The method
is easy and pleasant, and will effect a perfect and per-
manent cure. Sent in a plain sealed envelope free of
charge. E. NORTON, 59&60 Chancery Lane, London,
Eng. Over '3O years’ continuous success. g
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C P (combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand,
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Ou new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per cent,
of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
RICHARD TEEOE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HMWuyrV.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 108,
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
£3T Send for a
Catalogue.
m
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15e.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Right Vehicle*
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HII/LIER, 130 Sussex-street.
W ; MELBO URN E-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
Eirst-olass Workmen. Send for Catalogue. Agents wanted.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
k
r ®nss
m
I
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South IF ales —
M. RUTTY & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
J. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Fropy. Ld., Adelaide
Western Australia — ®
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland—
Thos. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Philp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania —
Watchorn Bros.,
Hobart
rfchn McKenzie & 00.,
Launceston
New Zealand —
D. Benjamin & Co.
Dunedin, Wellington
and Christchurch.
uice
IWFFliggg^^TT
The basis of which is “Montserrat ” Lime-Fruit Juice .
Far Superior to
all otHer fauces.
.— —-
/IG£ATS-Elliott Bros. Ltd., J. Connell & Co., D. Mitchell & Co., Sydney
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
KARTELLS
“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
“Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
TliJ Lancet
BRANDY.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company
193 to 195 Gioveland-street, liodforn, d OW <ii £
When In town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULIvY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY! If so, send for our Price List. You
w ill save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, A 7 15s. Our Special Ben£ Shaib
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £l.l.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £J
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every descriptionof vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not bo
misled by any firms who say they will deliver tor lesi
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay lo pji
cent more for your requirements.
OUK SPECIAL Xo. 2
£8 18/6
sd
Delivered at any Wharf or
IV'.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Price 6s.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
BY
“Steele Rudd.’
Bards of the Backblocks.
The Peace of Yam.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I weary of these city woes,
The dust, the traffic, and the noise,
And hunger for the sweet repose
The township knew when we were hoys.
You mind the drowsy summer days,
The clean sheep drifting from the tolls,
The line of bush, the splendid blaze
Of silver on the quarry-holes ;
The straggling huts that faced the pound,
The stream of furze, its golden shade,
The slow, long, sleepy, breathing sound
The engine at “The Brothers” made.
But here eternal rush and clang
Assail us, and we chafe in touch
With men who are not worth a hang,
And things that do not matter much.
Ah, how I long from town to steal,
To leave its roar and endless strain,
And through my loose-flung body feel
The world’s pulse beating once again !
You mind how Cody’s teams were stuck
With every breaking of the drought,
How ’mid the foam and flying muck
The oaths like locusts buzzed about.
Whip-handles drummed on barrels tense,
And drivers raved at horse and mare.
That man may talk of eloquence,
Who’s heard the honest teamster swear !
’Twas fine when Harvey broke his pledge,
And razed the fixtures at The Star,
And stood to argue and allege
Upon the wreck of Paddy’s bar.
Then desolate he’d stray to brawl
With posts and trees the livelong night,
And stone the roofs of Yam, and call
The sleeping township out to fight.
Alas ! the whirr of rushing trains
Is on my nerves. The neighbors try
Their mandolins, and from the drains
Foul language rises to the sky.
You mind those warm, still evenings when
The scent of bush-fires drifted in,
And Gfleeson’s Kate and Mrs. Been
Each cursed the other, kith and kin.
They drained their cups like sisters dear,
Then swapped abuse till break of day,
And people flocked from far and near
As city-dwellers to the play.
The swaggies came from West and East;
Their morals did us little hurt,
Though Yam had always one at least,
Pursuing griffins in his shirt !
Upon the ironstone road the stock,
With slouching riders, loitered through.
Grim stockmen’s oaths the babes would mock—
The only baby-talk they knew.
Sweet there the grief o’er days that die,
The soft, grey light that chastens all,
The sweep of birds along the sky
The leader’s solitary call.
The lorries clatter here, aloof
The church bells wrangle, and the glad,
Pert sparrows battle on the roof—
Their twitter almost drives me mad !
I weary of the city’s ways,
Its vulgar strife and hateful sham,
And yearn for bushland nights and days—
The bland, idyllic peace of Yam.
EDWARD DYSON.
“Just a Little Bit.”
Oh ! love her just a little bit, but love her all the
time—
(A droughty throat, my drover mate, coats o’er
the heart with rime) —
And don’t forget her on the roads, when camping
“ tinklers” chime!
Oh ! pet her just a little bit to cheer her on her
way—
A softened word, or kindly deed, to treasure day
by day;
’Twill lighten lonely hours, old chap, when you
are miles away !
Remember, just a little bit, the joys of courting
days,
When you were keeping straight, old man, and
thoughtful in your ways ;
And now she’s yours and you are hers —whose love
the scale down weighs ?
Oh ! save your cheques, a little bit, for there are
bills to pay,
The baker oft forgets to call, the butcher growled
to-day,
And she has got to face it all while you are
miles away !
Oh ! cheer her, just a little bit, for hours are
seeming long ;
Just gurgle down the angry word when things are
going wrong—
She’s just a scrap of womanhood, and you are big
and strong!
RITA SUNYASEE.
At Geelong (Vic.), a rail way-man stumbled
and fell. A lead-pencil in his pocket pierced his
lung, and he is now in a precarious state. Pencil
accidents are common on railway platforms. At
Caulfield (Vic,), some time ago, a railway em-
ploye was instantly killed by a pencil, which was
knocked down his throat while he was holding
it between his teeth. In yet another case the pencil
went through the palate to the brain, causing
instant death.


ORNAMENTAL hair.
S" al !f Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
HavrTads. 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers & Wigmakers.
Sm d to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair
Evkiiy Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
CRA.IG & A.ITKB3XT
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
EVERY MAN IS
™™™fx les JLi I l tereBted in the curative powers of
MEDICALGALVANISM and the proper method of
applying this wonderful agent. Before purchasing
Electric Belts or Batteries send for our valuable FREE
BOOK entitled “THE MODERN TREATMENT OF
DISEASE BY ELECTRICITY.” It wm teU you what
you ought to know, and may save you time, money
and disappointment. Address—
ARTHUR HALE & SON,
44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
pS RX CORO’S
t SS£» 4CE °f v.\ F fc-j
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled' and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Health and Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 128. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia — PEßßY & CO.. 47 Queen St
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
F. H. Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell St.. Sydney.
SHE
DEAF
0033
The New Patent
) SOUND DISCS
Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
fX es ' Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. *
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rmoßQpyN e.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—.
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNE.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of. all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. X never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
FINSEIM’S —r
NAEMATIN ■ ALBUMIN
TABLETS
A Certain Cure for POVERTY OF BLOOD,
ANAEMIA and WEAKNESS, from whatever cause
arising. The latest wonderful discovery by the great
Danish Scientist,
PROFESSOR NIELS. R. FINSEN.
GIVE THEM A TRIAL l
* rom S. HARRIS, Chemist, 82 King-st. :
WASHINGTON H. SOUL, Pitt-st. ; PATTINSON & CO
Ltd., and all their Branches ; and all leading Chemists, at
3s. 6d. per box.
PHOTOS
From Life, for Lovers of Art, Beauty, and Chic;
Carefully Selected Assortments, Cabinets, or
Stereos, with Illustrated Catalogues and Minia-
tures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s. Money Order or Cheque
on London.
English, French, and German Rare Books
Explain wishes and requirements, and full satisfaction
will be obtained.
R. GEN.NERT,
89c Faubourg St., Martin, Paris, France.
London Bankers :
L. and SOUTH WESTERN BANK LTD., Head Office.
WOOL. PRODUCE. CRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
•A-CT as selling- brokers ONLY.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
"(Including Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
will be
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb ... ;
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
l under
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing. Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, eto., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
AGENTS FOB, McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney
(Corner of
Clarence Street)
21» 23 King Street, Mellbou.m.e.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES . . .
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Puir.ps, Turbine Fans.
(Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
Messrs. GREENWOOD 6t BATLEY LTD., Albion Works,Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors, Pumps, etc.
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
Cables, Wires, Tapes, etc.
'■?
fs
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regrain Health?
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
Vigor and Strength
for all who
desire it.
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Roya! College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
Since 1886, has so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your fellow man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
Seels; tiie Truth., it costs KTothing!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, cor. Russell & Collins Sts,, Melbourne.
df
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
embracing
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Ohromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
,° CCUr -° the minds of y° un & and old, but about
a delleacy “ consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
nage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
m its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
, Jf' ATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged
A>jv ered f ed o th,s " reat work. 11 will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy : is 6d post
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d. 1
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk Is 9d
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is
Art °?> WRKS ™ NG ’P ost ls - Hoyle’s Games, post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted. 1 '
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), ls 3d post
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, ls.
Aust. Miners Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d
Mahomet s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post ls 3d.
How to Dance, new work, ls posted. Camille, Is 3d i
Secret History of the Court of England, 1 6postfree' !
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., ls 6d posted I
Lover s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter I
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer, Is 3d I
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history)’ is 3d
Sandow s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post
Ciiiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 0d posted
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls 3d post free. !
How TO Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest sones
_ J 7 S P osfc f, ' ee - How to Play Billiards, is 3d
tx. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. nosted
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. Sappiio Is '
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pan-es
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid'
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor., Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d.
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big- Book
Catalogue post free anywhere.
SIB ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st, Sydney.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300 pages
price, 4s. 6d.; postage, 6d.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.j Sydney and Brisbane.
M*OUT v
PI JLd JLd S.
F °R GOUT,
RHEUMATISM.
SCIATICA.
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only ellicient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pb.out & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
“Don’t shout”
sd
" I hear yon. I can hear now
. as well as anybody.
" ‘ How ?’ Oh some-
thing new -The Wilson.'
Common-sense har-
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can't see them
they're invisible. 1 wouldn’t
know I bad them in myself,
only that I hear ail right."
The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
..working parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other de-
%
vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
CHAIWtO, 229-231 Collins St., Help.,
MARKS AMERICAN ARTIFICIAL LIMBS.
With Patent RUBBER EEiii
and HANDS.
Sole Agents for Australasia.
TRUSSES. English
American and made to order
Silk Elastic Stockings, Belti
and all Instruments for the re
lief and cure of deformities, &o.
Send for Catalogues, Par-
ticulars, dec.
DENVER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers
281 GEORGE ST.,SYPNEY, and at Melbourne.
f
s
Vapor Bath Cabinets,
Price, 25/-
Head and Face Steamer, 3/6
Carriage paid to any railway station
on direct route in Victoria, N.S.W.,
and S.A., or any seaport town.
We also have a better quality
Cabinet at 45/- (Head and Face
Steamer/ree to advertise this line).
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Hypnotism
Reader, why not he able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force ol
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
i that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain ; win reluctant affection,
[gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
ana expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I wiil send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (►tamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize.- It is a chance of
a life-time. Address—
w
i
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ASTHMA CURE
GHIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Fop Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GHLIIYEAULiT & Co. p Paris. Sold by all Chemists.
NOTICE
' To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism,Sciatica,
! Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
i The Old Reliable English Remedy.
; PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstke iSs Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
, parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
m the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
NTB.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all (
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.


AMSIHM
0000 (iO[^
ppjol f
99
wm
CORSETS.
#
The Recognised Standard
HIGH-CLASS CORSETS
♦
LATEST SPECIALTY
Straight Front
Erect Form.
Obtainable from Leading Drapers
Everywhere.
Av,oid Inferior Imitations, and see that each
pair bears the Manufacturer’s ‘ ‘ Trade Mark ” on
band inside, as above.
ET L,,
im
The ct>
GENERAL
ELECTRIC
COMPANY.
Capital - - - £5,250,000.
Manufactures the Highest Grade of
Electrical Machinery.
THEIR NAME IS A GUARANTEE.
Dynamos, Engines and Motors up to 250 H.P. in Stock.
Lighting and Power Plants for Immediate Delivery.
Arc and Incandescent Lamps and Supplies of all kinds.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.,
Electrical Engineers and Contractors,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVES.
EQUITABLE BUILDINGS, Melbourne and Sydney.
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
BUNTER’S
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head-acjies & all Nerve
Pains removed by BUN TER’S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
•‘As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I have
used it successfully for years.”—Prof. W. Wilson, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYESworsdell S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepsia, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, &c.
Of all Stores.
35 YEARS PROVEN EFKJCACY.
w
m
TaKC
LU
LU
©
/®s'
fit
o
>5
1 »
51 >
V
S^>
jQoxibns ■
V’Coids ;
\Astkma o Bronchitis
OF ALL Chemists
throughout Great Britain & w Colonies
’IINUM CaTHARIICUM PIUS Pui;U'VlvfloM«
jse COACUUNE •
Transparent Cement for au Broken Articles
GAN T YOU BREATHE
freely? Have you to sit up in bed gasping for
breath? If so, you are only one of a countless
number whose lives are made a burden to them by
ASTHMA.
If you wish to rest again at night, and breathe
with head erect by day, send ss. to NEWHAM
WATERWQRTH, Edward-st., Brisbane,
who will forward post free a sample bottle of a
New Remedy for Asthma, a few doses of which
will prove to you that life is still worth living.
TRADE MARK
Fox Bros. 8t Go., Ltd., warn
the Public that their Trade
Mark consists
ONLY
casaißmmaammmumammmammmm
of the word
FOX
which is a guarantee of sound-
ness of material and Quality
of Dye of all
Worsted Coatings,
Serges 1 tweeds
on which it is stamped.
As the result of many years
of experience
fox’s pure 3nsigo Dye
is recognised as the best in the
market. All FOX'S standard
cloths are stamped every two
yards on the back
FOX
PURE INDIGO
and without this stamp are
not genuine. These celebrated
serges can be obtained from the
leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Colonies.
FOX BROS. & Co., Ltd.,
Wellington, Somerset, Eng.
Beauty, splendor, elegance! Rich
and heavy braids! Long and flowing
tresses!
Ayer’s Hair Vigor feeds the hair
and makes it grow long and heavy. It
stops falling the hair, completely
cures dandruff, and keeps the scalp
clean and healthy.
As a dressing for the hair you will
certainly be greatly pleased with it.
Ayer's Hair Vigor
You can always rely upon it for
restoring color to your gray hair, all
the full, rich color it had in early life.
There is no doubt about this. You
need have no fear of being disap-
pointed. We speak with a knowledge
that covers over fifty years of experi-
ence with this valuable preparation.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure that you get the genuine
Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr J C. Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass Ti S.A
Skins Soft&White
BY USING
9^
m
X\<s&
M-
Healthy
CofiP! FVinuc Pnccirn\/cr!.
Publications.
“BUSHMAN ■«
BUCCANEER”
Illustrated
HARRY MORANT:
(OF TIIE
Busiiveldt
Carbineers)
HIS V€NTUR€S
ANP V€RS€S
By FRANK RBNAR.
The History, Verses and Correspondence of
“The Breaker.”
PRICE ONESHILLING
POSTAGE ONE PENNY. All Booksellers.
Wholesale: Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney.
Retail: “ Bulletin ” Newspaper Co. Ltd., Sydney.
AsU your music-seller for
FREDERIC H. COWEIM’S
Beautiful Song,
The Mission of a Rose
Sung with the greatest success by
Miss AMY CASTLES.
The Illustrated London News says : “ It is a gem.”
“Bells at Sunset.”
This charming composition for the Piano by
W S. ROCKSTRO, is now in stock, and can >e
supplied by all Music Dealers.
W. PAXTON & CO., Publishers,
London, Melbourne.
The DAISY SERIES of Pianoforte Albums. The most
popular books for young players ever published.
Business Announcements.
X
113
o
p
p
o
s
I
T
E
G
P
6
O O
p
A
T
T
E
R
N
S
F
R
E
E
Necessity
of Life.
421-
We are
Artists
in
Tailoring,
LONDON TAILORING DEPOT,
MLLB, F, S. Meyers, Manager,
“ I’ll Try It."
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
(apillarine
Posted (unde.r cover)
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 108. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Result .
CRAIG &, AITKEN. N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House, 680-682 GEORGE STREET, BYDNEY.


El
i
AARON’S
Exchange Hotel (jo.,
SYDNEY.
The system of paying for Room only and
Meals as required is adopted here.
£3 3s. per Week
Ss. per Day
GORDON MARE, Secretary,
W. W. AIKEN, Manager,
28 Years in the Establishment.
OUR AUTOMATIC KOH-I-NOOR PENCIL HOLDER
All Goods
Post Free.
J EWELLERS & OPTICIANS
■ 90 King ST, Sydney.
end for Catalogue.
samgffwasß
In Solid Silver or
Oxidised Gun Metal.
2|in. long, 8/- ; 3iin., 8/6,
including 3 KOH-I-NOOR
REFILL PENCILS.
The New Flat Cedar
Pencil Holder.
Solid Gold, Plain 25/-;
Engraved, 27/6.
Silver, Plain, 3/-;
Engraved, 3/6.
Gun Metal, 2/6, 3/6.
Cedar Pencil Holder.
Solid Silver, Plain, 3/6 ;
Engraved, 4/6.
Solid Gold, Plain 20/-; Eng. 21/-
Telescopic Pencils,
In Great Variety.
Silver from 3/-, Gold from 11/6
REE
y*s
STAR
Hennessy’s
Hold the
Largest
Stock
on
Earth of
Genuine
Bottled
Cognac
Brandy.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
h
s
6-0
C
SATISFY
r>V=E
«n
1
1
E3
l—
or
I m
3.1!
HOTEL
HETROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica
tion to The Manager.
mmm
WICiHTMAN’S
BEACONSFIELP HOTEL
Beaconsfield Parade, St. Kilda, Melbourne.
pmST-CLASS ACCOMMODATION for Visitors and Per-
* manent Boarders. Situated in the healthiest part of
St. Kilda, facing the sea. Hot and Cold Sea Baths. Fifteen
minutes from Melbourne—tram or train. Reasonable Tariff.
Special terms for families and permanent boarders.
Telephone 65 Windsor Exchange.
THE BULLETIN RECITER
BY EIGHTY (80)
BULLETIN BARDS.
With Illustrations by “Hop,” N. Lindsay, A. J. Fisher, F. Leisb
D. H. Souter, and H. McCrae. In handsome Cloth, decorated.
Sole Distributing Agents — PRICE 55.; POSTAGE 4d.
Ldwards, Dunlop & Co,, Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
MACHINERY
MERCHANTS.
WHOLESALE IRONMONGERS,
And Importers of
Engines, Boilers, Pumps, Wood-
working Machines, Engineers’
Supplies, Blacksmith and
Goachbui.'ders’ requisites, Pipes
and Fittings, Boiler Tubes, Gun
Metal and Brasswarefor Steam
and Water, Household and
Builders’ Ironmongery, Agri-
cultural Implements, Horse
Gears, Chaff Cutters, &c.
Machinery Storb.s
Brisbane,.
mm
r ;
SMELLIE&C
Bulk
Store.
[Jorth QuccmslaKd BrANoJ
. -
f
MELLIE&CO
BRISBANE
North Queensland Warehouse:
Stanley & Sturt Sts-, Townsville.
New Broad St. House, London, E.Q.
f AGENTS FOR
|ROBEY & CO., Portable
j> Steam Engines.
JW. B. HAIOH & CO., Saw-
i mill Machinery.
t GWYNNE’S Centrifugal Pumps
t PEARN’S Manchester Steam
1 Pumps.
DUPLEX Steam Pumps.
SCOTT’S Steel Mining Ropes.
FRANK VIAL & SON Leather
Belting.
WAUKEGAN Barb Wire.
PLANET JR. Implements.
AER MOTOR Windmills.
KEROSENE OIL ENGINES.
CC
99
To cigarette smokers, Messrs. W. D. & H. O. Wills (Australia) Ltd.,
announce that their celebrated “ Capstan” Cigarettes
are now manufactured in a milder flavour than formerly.
P©l* Packet of 10 (Blue packets).
Obtainable at all Tobacconists and Storekeepers.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vo L. 23.-No. 1174.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 16, 1002.
Prion f?t».
Tn 6
I HE.
T^C-URt^
DONE WITH: THE LESSON OF THE DRAYTON GRANGE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
" Australia for the Australians.*>
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBER?
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... . ... £lO 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
■SI, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of lid. postage, the subscription
to Tiie Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —l \d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/Tiie Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
NOTICE.
By sending direct, to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the '‘Correspondence’’ column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To A mate,urs in Itlaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adaptedfor direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions tvill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
San Francisco.— L. E. Lee, Palace Hotel.
So "i i Africa. — 11. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Stree: , Capetown; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 llout-st., Capetown. Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 16, 1902.
The Five Deficits.
One by one, as the States make up their
accounts for last financial year, the deficits
keep dropping in. Every State has one,
barring Westralia, whose position is excep-
tional, as it isn’t yet affected by inter-State
freetrade, and hasn’t yet lost its border
customs revenue. And even Westralia has a
much smaller surplus than it expected. The
preliminary estimates go to show that on a
fair and honest basis ( i.e ., eliminating the
swindle by which the rents of the pro-
perties in the resumed area of Sydney were
treated as revenue, while the corresponding
liabilities were charged to loans) the
N.S.W. deficit is about £350,000, but
there are hopes that when the accounts are
more carefully inspected, some way may be
found of making it look like only £300,000.
The Victorian deficit is £437,611. The
Queensland shortage is £431,939. South Aus
tralia has a deficit of £222,316. Tasmania
closed its financial year on 31st December,
1901, with a shortage of £44,279. And on
the other side of the account there is Wes-
tralia’s solitary surplus of £198,000, which
arises solely from the fact that Westralia
still retains its border customs revenue, and
even that is a wholly fraudulent surplus
created by using loans for ordinary expendi-
ture purposes. .' Also Westralia’s border
customs are a diminishing quantity and will
disappear altogether in about another four
years, and then Westralia will be on the
same footing and in the same trouble as its
neighbors.
* * * •
If these were mere isolated events they
might be matters of only passing importance,
but they are not. They are rather a con-
tinuation of a permanent policy of deficits.
New South Wales has had 15 deficits
since 1879 —a period of 23 years. Victoria
has had 10 ; Queensland has had 11 ; South
Australia 11 also ; and Tasmania 10. Even
in good years—years when the drought was
not with us, when the inter-State customs
duties were still being collected, when the
revenue was coming in liberally from the
sale of the public estate, when a vast amount
of the expenditure which should have been
charged to revenue was being paid out of
loans, it has been the regular thing for Aus-
tralia to fail to make ends meet, even on
paper. Queensland, N.S.W., Victoria,
South Australia and Tasmania all have great
accumulated deficits to work off, and nearly
£4,000,000 of these have now been, or are
being, added to the permanent debt and
given up as a bad job. A curious supers-
tition to the effect that financial matters
are somehow different in Australia
from financial matters in other lands
through this being “ a new country ” has
aided materially in bringing about this
result. It is held that it is necessary for
Australia to borrow more than any other
place—because this is a new country. It is
pointed out that there is no need to be afraid of
consequences—because this is a new country.
When any rash individual proposes that
Australia should raise enough tax revenue
to at least pay its way, many people arise to
say that it is a disgrace to suppose that any
serious taxation can be required—in a new
country. There is a loose, floating idea that
somehow there should be 15d. in a shilling
because this is a new country, and if there
isn’t, the necessary steps should be taken at
once to cause that number of coppers to be
in a shilling now and hereafter.
* * » *
Twelve months ago it was perfectly well
known that a large source of revenue in the
shape of inter-State duties was going to be cut
'off under Federation. Whether the buyer or
the seller pays the duties is immaterial; when
the Australian people are both buyers and
sellers, as is the case with inter-State trade,
the Australian people pay the duties either
way. The Australian people were going to
cease paying this heavy taxation, therefore
the State Governments—or, at least, those
of Queensland, Victoria, Tasmania and South
Australia—knew that they must, in the ordi-
nary course of events, expect much less
revenue. As deficits were chronic even with
the border tariff receipts they hadn’t the
lease hope that they would be any less chronic
without them. Obviously the only way to
prevent things becoming any worse was to
put on new taxes to make up for those which
had been deliberately and intentionally
abolished. There was no question of putting
new burdens on the people as has been falsely
represented ; it was rather a question of pre-
venting the old burdens, which had proved
wholly insufficient to yield enough revenue to
keep the country solvent, from being dimin-
ished. It is an interesting Australian
characteristic that last year not one Govern-
ment moved in the matter. They all decided
that it was unwise to do anything till they
found out how large the deficit would be.
If they moved prematurely they might—
though it is most improbable—have put on
more taxation than was required to replace
that which had been abolished ; and there
might have been a few thousands over with
which to pay off some of the load of back
deficits, and that was a horror to be avoided
at all costs. So they all resolved that the
best way to find out how deep the precipice
might be was to fall down it. In the pro-
cess of finding out they have accumulated
liabilities, which will probably take about 40
years to pay off—or, rather, at the usual
rate of progress, they will never be paid off
at all, but will cost about £60,000 a year
interest for ever, or thereabouts.
» * * •
In Victoria, the trouble was aggravated by
the fact that old age pensions were a new
charge on the revenue, and no special taxa-
tion had been levied to meet this large extra
outgoing. If Peacock and Irvine and
Shiels couldn’t see that, with old age pen-
sions as a large new item added to the ex-
penditure, and with inter-State customs as a
large old item abolished out of the revenue,
the income, which was barely sufficient
before, was bound to fall very far short, then
their incapacity amounted almost to genius.
All the States had plunged recklessly into a
wicked and useless war without making any
provision whatever for the payment of the
bill, and the fact that the bill was still coming
in was well known. All the States knew that
the amount of interest to be provided on
account of the ever-growing public debt
was becoming a larger item each year.
The whole circumstances were obvious ;
yet there is a tendency in all quarters
to speak of the great shortage as an
unexpected calamity, an undeserved misfor-
tune, and the act of God. Philp and Irvine
and Lewis and Jenkins Iscariot all address
the Legislature on the subject in a hushed
voice, as if somebody was dead on the pre-
mises. They all state that every possibility
in the way of retrenchment must be ex-
hausted before “new burdens are laid on
the people ” —just as if it was a case of
imposing new burdens, instead of replacing,
in a different form, the ones that were taken
off last year. A disgraceful process of sweat-
ing the public service—which is, in great
measure, a very moderately-paid public
service—is to be resorted to, and all manner
of small, inefficient meannesses are proposed
in order to prevent the people being taxed
at something like the rate which the
people of England stand as a matter
of course. Some of the Premiers pro-
pose to scrape up enough, in one way
and another, or just about enough, so far as
they can calculate, to keep the accounts
square next year—that is to say, to make
them square after a few hundreds of thou-
sands of loan money have been used for
revenue purposes. Shiels, of Victoria,
proposes to find enough, by cutting down
wages and other economies, to partly square
the accounts, and is apparently quite content
if next year’s shortage is a little smaller than
this year’s. Nobody, it is quite needless to
say, proposes to do anything towards making
good the drift of the year just ended. That
goes into the general debt to wait for the
turning up of that undefined something
which is to put matters right automatically—
the something that is to turn up on the day
when the supernatural hen lays the golden
egg on Shjels’s doorstep or John See's ship
comes home from Pactolus.
* • » •
The deficits of this one year just closed—
the deficits alone, taking no account of
general borrowings—have created in the
shape of new interest burdens, a load
that, upon each inhabitant, is equal
to about one-half the entire interest
burden of Switzerland, or one-fourth that of
the United States, or one-fifth that of
Sweden. Australia doesn’t take the matter
seriously. The old, loose impression that
things don’t matter in “a new country,”
and that the natural wealth of the country
(loans being mistaken for wealth) will pull it
through, is still on top. There is even a
considerable demand for a “ reduction of the
public burdens,” and for letting things slide
even worse than they slide now. If the
sliding process continues, a good many
things are likely to happen. Old age pen-
sions will probably go overboard in some
time of violent retrenchment; they can’t be
paid out of the deficit, and the deficit added
to the public debt, for ever. State Socialism
will fall into disrepute, for though it has no-
thing to do with the great policy of letting
things slide, the fact that a country which
largely practised it has fallen into semi-
bankruptcy will be set down to its debit.
The minimum-wage policy can’t last if the
present methods continue ; it can only exist
in a reasonably prosperous country, and a
long continuance of the loan and deficit, sys-
tem will make any real prosperity out of the
question. Unless all the Democratic ele-
ments of the community are prepared to
make honest and intelligent finance the first
plank of their platform they may almost as
well get out of the political business. The
Democratic ideals can no more afford to keep
the company they do than a new sect, how-
ever well-meaning, can afford to habitually
associate with unreformed burglars. The
great disaster is not approaching any faster
now than it was fifteen yeai's ago, when there
was no Labor in politics—butit is fifteen years
nearer all the same. And if it comes while
the Labor Party is in politics that
Party having made no serious effort to
dissociate itself from the old evil methods—
Labor will find that a large share of the
obloquy will be heaped on it and on its
policy. The person who remains about when
he knows there is going to be a dead body
in the vicinity, without taking any steps to
prove that he was not responsible for its
deadness, is an ill-advised individual, and
can only expect suspicion to fall on him,
especially when the real criminal is his
bitter enemy and has influence with the
coroner.
The Dutch-German Problem.
An American authority has expressed the opinion
that the inevitable German reach-out for Holland,
commonly looked upon as one of the possibilities
of the far, dim future, is really quite an adjacent
event—one that may probably be expected within
the next five or six years. If the spirit of Jingo
had been at its best the announcement might
have led to serious excitement, even at this far
end of the British empire, but the spirit of Jingo
is weary just now, and is taking things in a torpid
fashion. The fact that Germany wants Holland,
and that some day it may raise Cain to get it, and
that in the getting of it there may be great and
general trouble, is not widely known among the
masses, but the fact itself is solid enough.
Germany, after being long weak and dis-
united, is now a strong, solid empire,
though possibly neither so strong nor so solid
as it looks; and there is every sign of a
fixed desire to gather up the fragments of Lost
Germany—the bits that fell away from the central
authority in the days when there was practically
no central authority at all. The Danish duchies
have been recovered with the long arm and the
mailed fist.' Alsace and Lorraine have been
recovered. The German provinces of Austria are
badly wanted. German Switzerland would pro-
bably not be objected to. And Holland, the
valuable province which dropped away over 600
years ago, and which drifted back into German
hands in the 16th century and drifted off again,
is wanted quite as badly as any of them—perhaps
more so.
* * * *
The German reach-out after Holland is not
in the nature of an attempt at conquest—at
least, not as conquest is commonly under-
stood. The idea is that Holland should become
a part of the empire, retaining its own
sovereigns and its own laws, as Bavaria, Saxony,
Wurtemburg, and the other sub-kingdoms do, but
supplying its share of the military force and mili-
tary contributions in time of war and sharing in
the empire’s dangers and the empire’s protection.
The German empire is solid for war and trade
purposes, but otherwise its component parts do,
m most respects, very much as they please. Ger-
many wants to recover its long-lost province for
the sake of the Dutch army and navy, and
for the sake of adding 5,000,000 of a good
fighting race to its population, and, above all,
for the sake of the Dutch ports and the Dutch
commerce. The commerce would still remain
Dutch, but it would be German as well, and would
look good in the statistics. Also, it wants to see
the great Dutch colonial possessions become an
appanage of the German empire, .and an addi-
tional incentive to the German Imperial swelled
head. But Holland broke away from Ger-
many, just as Portugal broke away from
Spain, so long ago that its language and
its traditions have diverged widely from the
old stock. Like Portugal, too, it has a great
historical Past; these two States and Sweden
probably have a bigger Past, considering their
narrow resources, than any others in Europe,
unless the very far back records of Greece are
taken into consideration. And Holland doesn’t
want its monarch to become a sub-king or sub-
queen ; it doesn’t want to share the German
glories and wear the German spiked helmet; it
doesn’t want to merge its great traditions in Ger-
many ; and it regards William the Sudden as an
aggressive and unpleasant character.
* * * *
A thousand years ago the German empire em-
braced practically all the German-speaking peo-
ples, and they were many. It was immensely
powerful in those early days, but still it
was an empire built on sand, and was be-
ginning to decay. It was divided and sub-
divided among semi-independent princes and
princelings—in fact the process of sub-division
went on and on till the country was truly described,
in comparatively recent years, as reposing under
the rule of 2000 sovereigns. Certain of these
elected the emperor, and after a while they grew
into the habit of electing a monarch who couldn’t
kick back. Germany had practically homeless
emperors, and absentee emperors (like Richard
of Cornwall, who dropped in three times
in all to see how his empire was getting
along), and penniless emperors, and emperors
(like Wenceslaus) who took to drink to forget
their dignity, and an emperor who was arrested
by his butcher, under due process of law, for his
unpaid meat-bill. When the alleged dignity came
at last to be practically hereditary in the Hafs-
burg family, that race found that its own narrow
family territories were, as a rule, all that it
could rely upon for military purposes. The
Hafsbuiigs were lords of Germany in a sense,
and Germany assisted them in time of need if it
felt inclined. Sometimes it made war on them
instead. Sometimes it engaged strangers to make
war on them. Sometimes the subordinate princes
fought among themselves. Sometimes they only
looked on. The emperors could not annex any
great extent of German territory, sufficient
to make them really powerful German sovereigns,
without fighting single-handed, their own empire
and probably France and other foreign allies as
well, so they went after strange gods and sought for
conquests in Hungary, Bohemia, Italy, and along
the Turkish border. And at last it came to pass
that the head of the German empire was a great
monarch ruling over a little bit of Germany and a
tumultuous mass of non-German States, and when
the larger of his non-German States were not in
insurrection simultaneously he got on reasonably
well. Sometimes the Turks besieged his capital.
Sometimes his alleged German subordinates allied
themselves against him with the French or the
Swedes, or the Poles. Two of the Hapsbcrgs
fought their own subjects for 30 years on religious
matters, but they were men of unusual resource.
The weaker variety of emperor, in such condi-
tions, couldn’t possibly keep the empire together,
for he didn’t own the empire. If a remote
bit of it fell away it often meant an enemy
the less. The Swiss provinces were lost.
So was Holland. So were Alsace and
Lorraine. So was the shadowy claim on the
kingdom of Arles. The Swedes took a large slice
of the empire, and kept it for a while, and part
of it fell to Denmark. Sometimes the foreign
potentate who came into possession was supposed
to become a subject prince of the emperor, who
had already more subjects of that kind than he
cared for. Sometimes the emperor couldn't pre-
vent the loss of outlying states for want of an
army. Sometimes he couldn’t go to the defence
of threatened territories because the territories of
some of his loving but too-powerful subordinates
were in the road, and he would have had his throat
cut as he went.
* „ • «
Then Brandenburg, in North Germany, grew so
powerful that it could wipe the floor at times with
its alleged master single-handed, and the kingdom
of Prussia developed. The old German empire
went to pieces in the Napoleonic wars, in which
the Emperor had to fight against France and his
own principal alleged subjects combined, and for
60 years there was no Emperor of Germany—not
even of the old homeless variety who used to be in
trouble over the unpaid meat bill. But the
Prussian kings secured the lost dignity in 1871—
or rather they secured part of it, for William the
Sudden is “German Emperor,” where Wence-
slaus the Drunkard was Emperorof Germany, and
the nominal descendant of the CLesars. Then
things assumed a new aspect. The new German
crown was made really hereditary in thef amily of the
strongest member of the league. The new Emperor
had a sufficiently powerful German following of
his own to enable him to hold his ground against
the biggest of his sub-kings. He wasn’t ham-
pered by a vast mass of Hungarian, Italian, and
Bohemian alleged subjects; nor were there 18
strange languages spoken in his dominions, and
the Turks swarming over his back fence.
The old disorderly Diet gave place to a regu-
larly-constituted Legislature, and there was
a great solid permanent German army under one
head, instead of the multitudinous contingents
which used to be granted by the Diet after four
months’ deliberation, and which used to turn up
six months late and at half their nominal strength,
if they turned up at all. Under these new and
greatly improved circumstances, the idea of
recovering the lost provinces has become a common
one in Germany. The ambition is for a new Ger-
many, which will include everybody who speaks
the German language or anything that closely
resembles it. Schleswig, Holstein, Lauenburg,
Alsace and Lorraine have already been recovered;
though, after recovery, the two latter were treated
in a loud, coarse, aggressive fashion that wasn’t
calculated to encourage the others. The German,
or partially German, provinces of Austria are
badly wanted. The German portion of Switzer-
land is of less importance, though it probably
wouldn’t be objected to. But Holland is that
portion of Lost Germany which is of the greatest
moment. The great difficulty is that it has been
lost so long that the title is very much faded and
gnawed into rags by the teeth of time. Also,
there is no party in Holland, as in Austria, which
wants to become really German again. It is 650
years since a Hollander was elected Emperor of
Germany, and he didn’t make enough profit on
the contract to be worth much in a traditional
sense.
* * * *
The,German’s view of the matter is-that he is
coming back into his lost inheritance —that his
severed race is destined to be one again—that
unity is a good thing, and that even William the
Sudden isn’t so awful as he looks. The Dutch
view of the case is different. And the two views
will doubtless collide some day. Then the map
of Europe, which has been resting for about 22
years, will be altered again in some fashion or
other.


Is Federation a Failure?
Mr. J. H. Carruthers, known somewhat to fame
as “ Cocky ” Carruthers, but described on this
occasion as “ The Honorable J. H. Carruthers,
M. Ex-Treasurer, Minister for Lands, and
Minister for Education, New South Wales,’’lends
all the imposing weight of that title to a mournful
little twitter in United Australia arguing that
Federation is practically a failure so far as
N. is concerned :
I have no hesitation in saying that the brief experience
of N.S.W. has been such that, if a poll were taken for and
against Federation to-morrow, not 20 per cent, of the
votes recorded would be in favor. And I speak as one
whose loyalty to the cause is still unshaken, and whose
vote would still be cast in favor of the Constitution.
The reasons for this grave discontent in the mind
of Mr. Carruthers are (1) that the people of
N.S.W. were led to believe that a Revenue and
not a Protective tariff would be imposed ; (2) that
the Federal Government is extravagant; (3) that
there are no advantages from Federation ; (4) that
the Federal Government shows “ manifest un-
toncern in matters affecting the States.”
* • # *
These are fair samples of the sour grumbling
which is rife in N.S.W. just now. So perhaps a
little truth on these points may be re-stated with
id vantage. First, N.S. Wales was never led to
believe that a Federal tariff would not be a Pro-
tective one. The Freetrade party in N.S.W.
fought strenuously against Federation, so long as
it could, on the ground that it would kill Free-
trade. Dry Dog Reid’s famous simile as to one
sober man going to live with five drunken neigh-
bors represented in its most candid form the Free-
trade opposition to union. When it was a question
»f becoming Federalists or going out of politics
most of the Freetrade politicians found grace.
What they tried to make out then in order to
“save their faces” is immaterial. What is im-
portant is that the clear issue was set forth from
'he very first that Federation would kill Freetrade.
* * » *
That the Federal Government is extravagant is,
to an extent, true. It has spent money on Dukes,
Marquises and Cohentingents that was abso-
lutely wasted. That its extravagance has had
any material effect on taxation or on the state of
the various Treasuries in Australia is untrue.
The waste of which the Federal Government has
been guilty has, on the whole, represented a very
paltry sum. It is the wild waste of the State
Governments, particularly of the N.S.W. State
Government (which Mr. Carruthers was so
anxious to join),' that has led to the present
desperate condition of the public accounts in
various parts of the Commonwealth.
• • • ■
That there are no advantages from federation
is partly an untruth and partly an impudent
“ turning of the cate in the pan.” There has been
a decided stimulus given to manufacturing in-
dustry in N.S.W. by the Federal tariff. That
there has not been a greater stimulus is due to the
fact that the Cobden party, with which Mr,
Carruthers associates himself, has steadily set
its face against any measures to encourage Aus-
tralian industry (has savagely endeavoied, for in-
stance, to wreck the proposed iron-works at
Lithgow), and strives, by creating the impression
that the tariff now imposed will not be per-
manent, to scare away manufactures. Mr. Car-
ruthers (with other Freetraders) is in the posi-
tion of a small boy hanging on to a man’s legs,
kicking and biting, and squealing at him because
he doesn’t get along faster.
* * ♦ m
The “neglect by the Federal Government of
matters affecting the States ” resolves itself, when
Mr. Carruthers comes down to details, into a
series of undignified grumbles because N.S.W. is
not allowed all its own way. The Federal Cabinet
sits sometimes in Melbourne : civil servants are
allowed to work in Melbourne : the Governor-
General lives in Melbourne. If only Melbourne
could be bombarded by the auxiliary squadron
how much more brotherly and Federal the
parochial politicians of the Carruthers type
would feel !
PLAIN ENGLISH.
To Rehoboam Australis.
Some items from the new “ Book of Proverbs ’
(1) It should be the ambition of every democrat to
bring about as fair a distribution of the country’s wealth
as possible, but unless there is a reasonable amount of
wealth to distribute the distribution will do little good.
(2) It is a great thing to nationalise an industry. The
first essential is to get an industry to nationalise.
(3) It is better to have an industry that isn’t national-
ised than to have no industry at all.
(4) It is just as bad to patronise the foreign sweater as
the local sweater. In one sense it is worse. We can
make the local sweater leave off sweating, but the foreign
sweater is beyond our jurisdiction.
(5) The best thing is to manufacture our own goods in
locally-owned factories —then the wages and profits both
remain in the country. The next best thing is to manu-
facture them in local factories that are owned abroad-
then the wages, at all events, remain in the country, and
we can see to it that the wages are fair and reasonable.
The worst thing of all is to import, for then both the
Wages and the profits go out of the country, while the
people who should have received these wages are sup-
ported by loans and public works.
(6) No country ever got rich by loans and public
works.
(7) A new boot factory or woollen mill or iron-work
opens up the country a great deal more than an unpaid-
for railway that leads to nowhere In particular.
(8) The outside capitalist who sends his money here
to start- a new industry which will employ people pre-
viously unemployed isn’t one-tenth as bad a public enemy
as the outside capitalist who sends his money here to buy
lands, houses and shares. The latter doesn’t afford any
new employment, or supply any new wages, or diminish
in any way the mass of imports that we have to pay for.
(9) If Australia owned all its own public works, instead
of them being really, to the extent of about £190,000,000,
the property of the English mortgagee, then every
inhabitant of the Commonwealth would be worth nearly
£5O as his share of the railways and other public
works of this country, and every family of five would be
worth nearly £250. That would be the biggest, grandest,
and most comprehensive State Socialism on record, and
every foreign loan makes State Socialism more remote.
(10) When a property is so heavily mortgaged that it
won’t produce enough to pay the interest, then it is mere
foolishness to call the nominal owner the real possessor.
Qur public works are in that state. One of the first great
industries to be really nationalised should be our railways.
(11) An enterprise owned by private citizens living in
Australia and spending their profits in Australia is quite
as national as a State enterprise that is mortgaged to the
last penny to Cohen in Europe. Then only point in favor
of the latter is that we may pay off Coiien some day—
though there are no signs of it so far.
(12) The least national thing of all is when the enter-
prise and the employment and the Cohen are in Europe,
and we only import the proceeds.
(18) The first step towards nationalising things is to
levy a weighty absentee-tax.
(14) Almost the only thing that is really nationalised
here is our deficit.
4
The Shearing Dispute.
At the time of the formulation of the shearers’
demand for an increase in the shearing rate from
20s. to 255. per 100 in N.S,W. this season, public
opinion was puzzled to resolve on which side the
right lay. On the one hand, the pastoralists
could plead that any addition to their working
expenses at a time of exceptional loss through
drought was unreasonable. On the other hand,
the shearers could point to the fact that the
drought seriously increased their working expenses
too; and, in addition, very greatly reduced the
number of sheep for shearing, and consequently
cut down their aggregate earnings. In brief, their
contention was that it would be a harder task
for them to shear now 20,000,000 sheep than to
shear 30,000,000 in a normal time, and that, there-
fore, by an increase in the rate, the aggregate
wage-fund should be reduced from £30,000 to
£25,000, instead of to £20,000. On which side of the
controversy the balance of j ustice was, appeared to
be a question most difficult of decision without a
very full examination of all the facts. But since
then the Pastoralists’ Union has consistently
acted in such a way as to give the public the
impression that it fears an impartial examination
into its side of the case. A reference of the matter
to the Arbitration Court was ingeniously baulked
by the promotion of the Machine Shearers’Union,
which, despite all that has been said to the con-
trary, certainly was founded in the interests of the
pastoralists, and probably is financed by the
pastoralists. Then the offer of the A.W.U.,
representing the shearers, to accept payment at
the old rate if sums representing the advance
asked for were paid into the hands of a third party
to abide an ultimate decision of the Arbitration
Court, was refused. A conference on the points in
dispute was also refused at first, and only granted,
so to speak, at the point of the bayonet. Then
the Pastoralists’ Union refused to even discuss a
compromise (the shearers suggested 225. 6d.
per 100 as a split-the-difference settlement),
and thus made the conference abortive.
All this must, in unprejudiced minds, argue
strongly against the Pastoralists’ Union. That
there have been faults on both sides is plain
enough. The A.W.U. is by no means beyond
criticism. But the responsibility for the indus-
trial war which now adds to the troublesof N.S.W.
rests mainly with the Pastoralists’ Union.
♦
An Insult to the House of Dodderers.
Premier Lewis’s proposal for the amendment of
the Fiyspeck’s constitution:
That on or about the Ist May, 1903, the Legislative
Oouncil and House of Assembly be dissolved.
That the duration of the present House of Assembly be
extended until that date.
That no extraordinary vacancies in either of the existing
Houses be filled up between the date when the bill to give
effect to these resolutions is passed by both Houses and
the Ist May, 1903.
That after the Ist May, 1903, the Parliament of Tas-
mania shall consist of the Governor and one House only,
to be called the House of Legislature.
That the said House be composed of 30 elected members.
That for the purposes of electing members to serve in
the said House the State be divided into 20 districts, as
nearly as practicable containing an equal population, as
ascertained by the last census.
That each of such 20 districts return one member,
elected on the present House of Assembly franchise.
That 10 other districts be formed, each composed of
two of the districts referred to in paragraph 6.
That each of such 10 districts return one member,
elected on the present Legislative Council franchise, who
shall hold their seats for a term of five years, except in
the ease of members chosen at the first election, ora
general election following any dissolution of the whole
House.
That of the 10 members so elected two shall retire each
year. That the two members to retire in each of the first
five years, after the new Constitution comes into force,
or after any dissolution of the whole House, shall be
determined by lot.
That, subject to such conditions as may be prescribed,
the votes of two Orders of members, elected under para-
graphs 7 and 9 respectively, upon any question may be
taken separately, and unless a majority of members of both
Orders vote in favor of the question it shall be considered
lose.
If measure be acceptable to majority of members of one
Order, and be not acceptable to majority of members of
other Order, and if, after an interval of six months, same
measure is again proposed, and disagreement continues,
then whole House may be dissolved, and upon same
measure being again proposed within six months after
such dissolution it shall be affirmed or rejected by
majority of members voting together.
Thus the old superstition once more gets hold of
Premier Lewis. The original idea was to reduce the
Council to 10 and the Assembly to 20 members, and
to let them sit and vote as one House. The 10 were
to be elected on the present Council franchise, and
the 20 on the Assembly franchise, bub the idea of
making a speok and a scrap into two separate
branches of the Legislature was abandoned. But
Lewis has already weakened on that; the thought
of the Assembly members outvoting the Council
members, and Property losing its sacred right of
individual obstruction, was too shocking. So the
30 are to sit together, and talk together, and drink
together, and vote separately as two distinct insti-
tutions put in one room to save gas. It is
to be as if Lewis and his dog shared the
one kennel for economy of rent, but
barked differently. Whether the two “Orders”
will occupy different ends of the apart-
ment ; whether there may be a quorum at one
end and no quorum at another ; whether business
will go right on just the same if there are 12 of
one “Order” present and only one of the other,
and the one, by voting “No,” will be able to
nullify the decision of the 12 who voted “Yes ” ;
or whether half the division (that of the “ Order ”
that is sufficiently represented) will be taken to-
night and the other half be postponed till the
other “ Order ” turns up; or whether, lacking a
quorum of one “Order,” both “Orders” must
adjourn, doesn’t appear. Lewis’s original pro-
posal to lump 10 Councillors and 20 members of
Assembly into one House was at least workable.
It was simply a perpetual Joint Sitting, and there
are plenty of one-House Legislatures in the British
Empire as precedents. The idea of having two
separate Houses in one room is a wild and whirl-
ing innovation, not to say revolution. It will
save gas, flunkeys, Hansard, and one Speaker,
but it leaves the original absurdity of 10 members
pretending to be a whole House” of Parliament
just where it was. There are still to be two
Houses, but one of them is to doss with the other
for purposes of economy. If Premier Lewis
carries out his scheme he will have the satisfac-
tion of having produced the most original Par-
liament in the British Empire, and originality
isn’t a thing Tasmanians hanker after,
A Bishop on Kanakas.
“ The nationalities of Cairns are decidedly mixed,” he
says, inter alia ; “ the Federal Government, with that
rare courage which marks truly great men, have fastened
upon the most harmless and ( anparenthe.se ) the most
unprotected, for their special fury. Chinese are there
by thousands, and singularly useful they are ; Japanese
also. Hut it is the Kanaka that must go. Thesj last
seem singularly inoffensive. They work hard at work no
white man should be asked to undertake (for it is deadly
monotonous), are law-abiding, quiet people, who spend
their money where they earn it. And many of them
come under very distinct Christian influence, and live
simple, pious lives. It is curious that no plans for
‘deporting’ Chinese or Japanese have yet been put for-
ward. It is not hard to see the reason. When we wish
to play the bully, we naturally choose the smallest boy.”
—Bishop Stretch’s parish paper.
Ignorance is evident in every line of the above.
Brisbane Courier (10th June, 1901) contained a
Cairns telegram which told how 13 Kanakas
appeared before the police court charged with
rioting. Five had their heads in bandages, and
the police deposed that the prisoners had fought a
savage battle with drawn knives. On 27th keb.,
1901, a Bundaberg deputation waited on Premier
Philp concerning the Kanakas in that town, and
told him the “boys” were a “menace to the peace-
ful inhabitants.” A Royal Commission that sat
on the police in 1899 remarked that of 25 murders
(authors undiscovered) committed in recent years no
less than 18occurred in the sugar districts. “Presu-
mably,” ranthereport, “the authors are Kanakas.”
On Christmas Eve, 1899, nearly 1000 Kanakas were
rioting in the main street of Bundaberg and caused
a reign of terror, and the Bishop tells us the- poor
fellows are “singularly inoffensive.” Moreover,
they lead simple pious lives yet Q. prison
statistics show that Polynesian prisoners are,
proportionately to the Polynesian population,
three times as numerous as Europeans.
Tommy Tanna is “ harmless ” and the China-
man is “singularlyuseful”—as is also the Jap.
If the Bishop ran things he would expel no
alien of them all—he frankly goes holus-bolus for
a Mongrel Australia and denounces as cowardly
those who want a white population. He remarks,
moreover, that if the islanders “ are deported they
will undoubtedly be murdered by their heathen
countrymen.” This is a risk to which Kanakas
have always been exposed by Q. legislation but
now is the first time the clergy have ever dis-
covered it. Some 20 years ago, when kidnapping
was rife, islanders were dumped down on the
wrong islands, regardless of consequences (as
proved by Royal Commission) but never a parson
in all Bananaland dared to preach against that
state of things. Now— how zealous are the black
coats!
Done With.!
The real degree of Australian interest in the late
S’African war can be accurately measured now
that the struggle is over ; and no facts are more
valuable in assisting accurate judgment than the
recent transport incidents. The Drayton Grange
set out from S’Africa to Australia with 2000
Australian soldiers penned-up on her decks, and a
markedly-infectious and dangerous disease on
board, with no proper hospital-accommodation,
with but a slim medicine-chest (and that wrung
from reluctant authority). The Britannic was dis-
patched to Maoriland under conditions of crowd-
ing almost as bad. The Norfolk was forced to carry
an appendicitis patient on from Adelaide because
South Australia refused a landing to a soldier who
had not been one of her State citizens. All thesein-
cidents are significant. If the war against the Boers
had been one for right and liberty ; if Australian
participation therein had been a necessary duty of
patriotism; if these returning soldiers are heroes
who risked their lives to preserve the Empire and
to ward off a possible tide of invasion from these
shores —surely Australia would not be so infamous
as to allow what, in the Drayton Grange case at
least, was tantamount to the cold-blooded murder
of her soldiers. To send an over-crowded troop-
ship to sea with an epidemic of measles on board,
and with practically no hospital accommodation,
is to condemn a certain number of them to death.
The English War Office did that in the case of the
Drayton Grange, did it apparently out of unneces-
sary and reckless cruelty, for there was no reason,
except the saving of a few pounds, either to over-
crowd the transport, or to send her away pesti-
lence-laden. Yet there has been practically no
Australian protest, a grumbling word or two here
and there, but not the indictment—prompt, re-
lentless, vengeful—which a nation should frame
against the murderers of half a score or so of its
“ heroes.” But, alas for the men who went away
with the beat of drum and the great throb of
cheering throats, it is quite palpable that they
are not regarded as “heroes”; that all the talk
of politicians and papers to that effect was flam ;
and that now, having served the purpose of the
merchants who had butter and oats and meat and
horses to sell, and of the politicians who had
titles to gain, they can go hang. They’re done
with. All the War Office orders have been placed,
all the titles gathered in, all that was to be
made out of the war by the interested Jingoes
made, and now they are anxious to forget
the men who volunteered to do the killing and the
farm-burning. If the Drayton Grange had kindly
sunk with her 2000 souls on board ere she reached
the Westralian coast, there would probably not
have been a sincere tear in any representative
Jingo eye. And the more men who die of
pneumonia or appendicitis or overcrowding, the
fewer there will be to limp about after the
promised tramway billets which they won’t get,
and to look reproachfully at the men who had
promised to enshrine them for ever in the grate-
ful hearts of the nation. The Australian repre-
sentative Jingo attitude towards the returned
soldiers is that of a man towards the women whom
he has dragged on to the streets. He wants them
above all things to keep out of his sight. They’re
done with 1
♦
Local Government.
The N.S.W. Government proceeds to put another
patch on the State’s municipal system. There is
no attempt at establishing local government over
all the settled districts of the State, but Premier
See’s measure does a certain amount in the way
of improvement. The municipal franchise is to
be widened. Rating may be on unimproved value
if the municipality so prefers. Government
property not used for public purposes is made
rateable. The conncils are to have more extensive
powei'3 in dealing with sanitation, building,
traffic, etc. There is to be an audit of the accounts
by a State auditor ; but if the rate levied fis not
large enough and there is a deficit, he has not the
power, as he should have, to order an increased
rate to be levied till the shortage is paid off. The
general rate may be as high as Is. 6d. in
the £ on unimproved value, which is more
than the present figure but ridiculously in-
sufficient all the same. The Government may
guarantee municipal loans up to the amount
of six years’ income of the municipality, but there
is apparently no definite provision by which the
Government may recover the money if the council
doesn’t feel inclined to pay. Special rates may
be struck for the repayment of the money bor-
rowed ; it should read that they must be struck.
Any municipality may lease land for a period not
exceeding seven years when the rates have fallen
seriously in arrear, and it may sell the land 12
years later if the owner doesn’t pay up and resume
possession in the interim—which is a remarkably
long interim. The trouble is that nobody wants a
seven years’ lease for any respectable building
purpose, and if the land is only fit for building on
the seven years’ lease, is of no saleable value, or
very little. Also, it is proposed to decide at last
that mines are to be rated on surface value only—•-
winch is a decision of very doubtful wisdom,
though it is better to settle the vexed question
unwisely than not settle it at all. And the real,
all-round Local Government Bill is to be intro-
duced when Parliament has time—which it never
has. It has rows and drink and John Norton,
bub it never has time. The only way a big
measure is ever passed is by making time.
♦
The Guile of 48 Rich Landlords.
The House of 48 Rich Landlords that sits and is
a public disgrace in Melbourne decided to postpone
for one month consideration of the Bill for the
continuation of the present Minimum Wage Law,
which law expires at the close of this session. The
Government gave notice that it would move that
the decision be rescinded —with what success
won’t be known in time to record the melancholy
facts and circumstances of the case in this issue.
In a sense the House of 48 Globular Proprietors
has an excuse that might pass muster, if it wasn’t
known that it was just as hostile when it hadn’t
the excuse. High wages make goods dearer, un-
less there are other advantages to counterbalance
this fact. Now that there are no border tariffs
Victoria can’t afford, working on even terms, to
pay more than its neighbors do—especially as
it is a State which is deficient in coal, the
great necessary of the manufacturing industry,
and so works at a disadvantage. If it pays higher
wages than its near neighbors, and, at the same
time, has to pay more for coal, its industries must
suffer under inter-State Freetrade, unless it can
make up for the handicap by extra skill. There-
fore the object of every democrat should be to get
the whole question of Labor legislation handed
over to the Federal Parliament, so that sweating
shall be abolished all round. But as it isn’t
evident yet that Victoria’s minimum-wage law is
handicapping it in the race, there is no reason or
necessity to drop it in the meantime. Such an
extreme step is only due when it is obvious that
the present system won’t pay under the new con-
ditions. The House of Landlords makes no secret
of its fixed resolve to oppose the transfer of labor
legislation to the Federal Parliament; a Minimum
Wage Law for all Australia is the last thing it is
seeking after. And it is just assolid in its objection
to a Minimum Wage Law for Victoria separately.
Its attitude is that Victoria can’t afford to have a
Minimum Wage Law if other Siates haven’t got
one; that it will do everything in its power to
prevent other States getting one; and that it'
wants to drop the present law without waiting to
find out whether Victoria can afford to maintain
it or not. And yet the Upper House goes home
quite safely on dark nights, and nothing falls on
its head.
♦
A Lovely Fiasco!
A few weeks ago the Philp Govt, brought out a
set of regulations concerning religious education
in State schools, regulations which deliberately
violated the spirit of the Q. Education Act, which
says expressly that secular instruction only shall
be given in school hours in State schools. These
regulations were practically equivalent to clause
17 of the N.S.W. Act. The clergy themselves,
who had run a bogus referendum, admitted it
covered only “a very partial part of the popula-
tion,” and Premier Philp alluded to this result as
the opinion “of the majority.” The other day, on
a motion for adjournment of the House, it was
contended that these regulations were ultra vires ,
and out of the whole Q. Assembly only one Govt,
supporter (outside the Ministry) dared say a word
in support of the new departure. Attorney-
General Rutledge had to support Philp, but
every other lawyer who spoke was dead
against him. Then the Premier admitted the
regulations would be withdrawn for re-considera-
tion. Next day, Government journals slated
Philp for trying to please everybody, and the
Minister for Public Instruction said that he also
thought the change was ultra vires ; and the rage
of parsondom, which had worked this crooked and
illegal thing, was a terrible sight to witness.
♦
An Unfortunate Habit.
Tasmanian Auditor-General Mitchell reports
about a score of irregularities in the accounts of
various departmental officers and local bodies.
Hobart City Council is pulled up with a round
turn for wrongly using its funds for illuminating
the way of the Duke and for paying the “ exes.”
of official trips to Melbourne and Sydney at Com-
monwealth celebration time. A very exalted
Govt, official is hauled over the coals for neglecting
to furnish correct accounts of the expenditure on
tools, &c., bought by his department at Duke
time. This official says the stock-book has been
lost, and he really “ dunno where it are.” Money
rightly payable into the Treasury has been paid
into private accounts by other officials, the only
explanation of which is that the Ducal visit so
upset their calculations that they were unable
to distinguish their own private banking
accounts from that of the Treasurer of the State !
Of course men filled to the muzzle with
loyalty and champagne might easily make such a
mistake; and it is only fair to state that they
were sorry for error, and apologised hand-
somely when they got sober. Zeehan Town Board
sent a wire of welcome to a returned contingenter
and charged it to petty cash; a £lO honorarium
was also included in the same convenient account.
Queenstown Town Board had its photo, taken,
and paid for the awful picture out of the rates.
Strahan Marine Board also had its photo, taken,
and paid tor it out of loan moneys. Some M’s.P.
visited Strahan harbor works, and ran up an
account for <£37 Bs. at the local pub. This was also
paid out of loan moneys, and like the other items,
has been disallowed by the State auditor. Numer-
ous rate-collectors have been found £llos. 4Jd. short
in their cash and a chief clerk in a large municipal
establishment was £4O odd short, thus providing a
pleasing variety for the inspectors, who were
heartily sick of discovering defalcations of
£llos. 4£d. in so many places. But as the £4O
gentleman had an unaccountable “surplus” of
£l3 odd in his cash-box, which some burglar may
have deposited there for safety, and as the “old
man ” was an alderman and promptly made up the
deficiency, there was no scandalous police court
prosecution or anything like that. The clerk was
reduced £lO a year in salary and told to
be more careful to issue a receipt to any
burglar who might wish to deposit a “sur-
plus ”in the cash-box in future. Apropos the
muddle in the one Savings Bank, owing
to the temporary absence of the postmaster,
who is serving a long sentence for a local
bank robbery, the State Auditor says, in effect:
“The bank robbery being yet, to a certain extent,
sub judice, I do not think it advisable to say as
much about the subject as I might.” This seems
to indicate that some further irregularities may be
anticipated. So far, only one prosecution has
eventuated —an uninfluential license-collector has
been committed for trial. The authorities appear
to consider that as it was Duke year, and Returned
Contingent year, and Peace year, some allowance
should be made for defaulters, and that small
irregularities should not be made the subject of
too strict inquiry. In fact, State Auditor
Mitchell is regarded as a somewhat over-zealous
officer, and will probably be given to understand
that the Crown Law authorities are of opinion
that these small deficits are not so much crimes as
casual misfortunes arising out of over excitement.


THE LARGEST AND BEST IN THE WORLD /
The Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York
NET FUNDS, January 1, 1902, £71,975,776.
Principal Agency in Australasia; Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
General Manager.
oAW MILL MACHINERY.
BAND or CIRCULAR MILLS, very heavy for
hardwood timber. Complete Outfits of any capa-
city. BAND RESAWS. ENGINES. BOILERS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
PULP MACHINERY. GRIP PULLEYS.
FLOUR MILLING MACHINERY.
“ALLIS” ROLLER- FLOUR MILLS on the
UNIVERSAL BOLTER SYSTEM.
WILLIAM FLEMING) 24 Clarence-street, SYDNEY
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal Brough Farewells.
Lyceum “ With Flying Colors.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Palace “San Toy.”
Criterion “ The Lady Slavey."
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ Sweet Nell of Old Drury ”
Her Majesty’s “Robin Hood.”
Theatre Royal “ The Worst Woman in London.”
DIJOU “ Cyrano de Bergerac.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Gaiety Theatre Dan Barry’s Dramatic Co.
4
The English capacity for producing light
opera of a really humorous quality and of genuine
musical merit seems to have perished with the
Gilbert and Sullivan partnership. The cause is
probably as much in the lack of demand as of
power to supply. Some recent comic operas, such
as the “Rose of Persia,” which approximated to
the “Mikado’’and “ Gondoliers” level, were not
nearly so successful as “The Geisha,” “Floro-
dora,” and other pieces which were tuifeful farces
rather than comic operas. The public demands
something that will approximate very closely to
the bills of fare presented “at the Halls,” some-
thing without any definite plot to bother about,
with no humor which is not of the most simple
or obvious kind, a piece which you can drop in
to see an hour late without prejudice to the enjoy-
ment of the rest of the show. “ San Toy,” pro-
duced for the first time in Sydney, at fhe Palace
Theatre, last Saturday, caters most successfully
for the public demand. It has several bright and
tinkling tunes, some songs with fun in them, a
few good dances; gives opportunity to a bevy of
bright girls to dress well—many in gorgeous
Chinese silks, a few in modern European raiment;
and has a bright stage setting. There are jokes
as obvious as those of a Simultaneous Mission, and
not above the mental calibre even of a Legislative
Council. And there is a cuinbrously impossible
story of a Chinese girl masquerading as a boy to
escape the affection of the Chinese Emperor, then
ultimately reaching his harem, to be finally given
up by the great Peacock-feather-dispenser to the
English officer who loves her sincerely. The
officer, with a marked departure from the prin-
ciples of melodrama, doesn’t conclude that she has
been ruined by her stay under the Imperial roof.
Such a play must almost entirely depend
on the players, which is in accordance with the
present ruling tradition of the stage, that that
playwright is most successful who least hampers
with his “ book ” the talents of the actors. The
company which opened in Sydney, though it is
only a No. 2 co., a sort of understudy to the No. 1
organisation of Lauri, Carrie Moore, etc.,
created from the outset a most favorable
impression, and scored an emphatic success.
Perhaps, on the whole, its interpretation
of the piece was better than that by the No. 1
co. There was no laziness shown; no tenor was
too tired to sing or comedian too tired to dance,
and without there being any timidity there was a
marked lack of that over-confidence which verges
on assurance and presumption. There are no very
fine voices in the co. ; on the other hand, no
markedly poor ones. The whole performance was
even and pleasing.
• • * *
The four persons on whom the greatest
responsibilities rest are Mr. Fred. Graham (Li),
Miss Rose Musgrove (San Toy), Miss Lilian
Digges, as a maid, and Mr. Frank Pierce (Yen
How). Miss Musgrove in the name part is
always graceful, her acting bright, her singing, if
not distinguished, pleasing. As a pert lady’s
maid Miss Lilian Digges has the chief female
comedy part, and plays it with dainty grace,
dancing and acting well. Mr. Fred Graham’s
was the broad comedy part, and he got the utmost
possible amount of fun out of it; the times when
lie and Miss Digges are on the stage together are
the brightest of the evening. Yen How is played
by Mr. Frank Pierce in the Howard Vernon style
with much quiet humor. Other pleasing features,
in a performance which makes big calls on a very
large number of people, were Mr. Troode, as the
Emperor of China ; Mr.. Arthur Crane, as Capt.
Bobby Preston; Mr. White, as Fo Hop ; and
Miss Lulu Evans, as Poppy.
*# * *
The Brough co. continued its fare welling
process at the Royal on Saturday by staging
“ The Liars ” for a two-night season. Sydney felt
better for its brief look at that picturesque play.
At the same time everybody realised that Lady
Jessica and Lady Rosamund and Dolly Coke, and
poor, obliterated Freddy Tatton, and old toothless
Archibald Coke were a most inefficient crowd of
liars, and if the thing was done as badly in real
life the great mining industry might just as well
close up for good. Brough, Leslie Victor, and
Misses Brenda Gibson and Helen Bogle did some
specially good work in “The Liars.” So did
Percy Walshe as conscientious old Coke who was
seized upon while on his way to get his teeth
attended to, and ordered to corroborate the lie,
which, being troubled by his conscience, he did by
saying “Yes-No” several times in great haste.
As the Brough programme stands at time of
writing, the co. will have done two nights of
“Lady Huntworth’s Experiment” before this
issue is before the public. To-night (Thursday)
and Friday the grand old “Village Priest” is
promised.
♦ * » «
Though “Iris” departed last Friday, the
public hasn’t yet quite finished arguing about that
surprising tragedy. In The Bulletin’s opinion
“Iris” gets ahead of “ Mrs. Tanqueray the
play which is most frequently quoted in connec-
tion withjt—in the fact that it supplies a more
solid reason for the final tragedy. Aubrey Tan-
queray married his second wife, the good woman
of bad character, and his second wife married him,
with the knowledge that her old disreputable
friends were to be dropped, and that his old
reputable friends would drop both of them.
Also they knew that where they were known
it would be practically impossible to make
new reputable friends. Yet, with wealth and
all the . world before them, and any number
of countries to choose from, where the Second
Mrs. Tanqueray’s past was a secret, they
chose to stay in England and groan themselves
miserably to death in isolation. The fall of Iris
was at least logical. She was a good woman,
whose goodness, though she didn’t know it, was
really based on the, fact that she had .-several
thousands a year. She tried to be good on £l5O
a year, and failed. She might have been good on
£l5O a year if the offer of a large income for being
bad hadn’t been constantly before her—but it was
constantly before her, and she took it. Then she
tried to negotiate for being good again with
another man on a decent income, because she pre-
ferred being good on a decent income to being bad
on one—but the other man would have none of
her. And between two stools she fell to the
ground, for through that luckless negotiation she
lost her chance of being rich and bad, and was
turned out to be bad and poor. The world is
full of people : (1) Who are conventionally good
and rich ; (2) who would be conventionally good
if they were rich ; (3) who are poor and conven-
tionally good because they never got a chance to
become rich by being bad. Iris fell out of Class I.
and into Class 11. through her solicitor going off
with her money, and she fell in a strictly logical
fashion. Her final disaster came about through
not fully realising how much better it suited her
to b 9 bad and have boots than to be virtuous with-
out them—in her failure to make the best of her
boots and her sin. Which was also logical. Any
number of people are built that way.
** * *
Bland Holt’s Lyceum drama, “ With Fly-
ing Colours,” continues to hinge its varied plot on
the incident of the man who is shot in the back of
the head and then is supposed to have committed
suicide. These fancy methods of felo de te are
rather favored on the stage, though in real life the
coroner is inclined to look suspiciously on the
corpse that shot itself in the back with a
gun at long range, or slew itself with an axe,
or cut off its own head and buried it, or practised
other fancy arts of self-destruction. The lighter
incidents of the drama are not so frequent as in
previous plays, but are just as good when they
come, notably the scene where the village (one
day every year) drives its time-worn vegetable-
cart and its ancient donkey through Bland Holt’s
cottage to maintain its ownership of the land as a
right-of-way. Considering the large amount of
common land that has been filched into big estates
this last century or two, the village ought to be
driving its ancient donkey through mostly every-
thing in England at present.
** » #
i( At Sydney Criterion John Sheridan’s
“Lady Slavey” continues to show a stout Irish-
man putting off his creditors with choruses and
solo statements to the effect that he is a gintleman
of the same brand as sainted Pat. Hubert
Bradley, as a stiff millionaire, wins the affection of
the audience with his voice, though that voice fails
to win the slavey heroine, till he falsely represents
himself to her as being penniless. This naturally
makes a stage heroine admire him at once. The
millionaire’s desire to marry a slavey elicits much
enthusiasm from the. male portion of the audience,
and should cause an immediate rush of prospective
Mary Janes to the registry offices. Unfortunately
\man s admiration for Mary Jane usually stops
short at admiring another man when he marries
i l !' ien f? oes and marries a girl who won’t
call on Mary Jane.
** * *
There are no new features of note at
Sydney Tivoli this week. Cinquevalli is still the
star attraction and with Mark Anthony, Woot-
well, an( j the Jacksons keeps the house full
A benefit performance in aid of the Mt.
Kembla disaster on Monday realised a fair sum.
** * #
The approach of Melba had the effect,
sfemmgly, of stimulating Melbourne’s faith in
‘ Trebelli” Dolores. Audiences for the French
artist’s farewell recitals were very large, and the
enthusiasm went a shade higher than ever. At
each of the recitals Mdme. after singing about 14
times got vehemently encored for her last song.
The fact was Melbourne had been warned to
moderate its wild expectations re the coming
prima-donna, and make the most of its oppor-
tunities to hear an incomparable Dolores at
ordinary concert prices. The sweet-faced French
woman may not have all the brilliancy of Melba’s
voice, but as an artist and an entertainer she is a
more satisfying “treat” than the less versatile
“star” vvould dream of attempting to be. To
sing a varied assortment of items—ranging from
florid operatic numbers to quaint comedy ballads—
is not Melba’s business, of course. But if she
were set such a task at the conclusion of a long
tour, when all the glamour of novelty had left her,
would she be able to go on feeding and strength-
ening the admiration of her audience as Dolores
does ? People who ought to know what they are
talking about say that if the two accomplished
artists started from “scratch” trillful Melba
would make the running at first, but demure little
Dolores would forge ahead after the seventh
song.
** * *
Last Saturday was the seventh night of
“Cyrano de Bergerac ” at Melbourne Bijou, yet
the financial prospects of that foreign-looking
novelty had hardly improved during the week.
The man in the street is disinclined to take an
interest in a high-class, sombre play relating to a
French literary crank whose somewhat legendary
career terminated 250 years ago. Australia, thus
far, has not heard of Cyrano de Bergerac. Any
story of the Gascon dreamer and his exaggerated
nose needs time to soak into the prevailing ignor-
ance, and even a knowledge of that long-deceased
litterateur doesn’t make it easy for a casual visitor
to comprehend the meaning of the Bijou show
prior to the interview between De Bergerac and
his Roxarie. A leaflet explaining the passing
events of each act, especially the Ist, 2nd and sth
acts, should be issued with the programme.
4 s 4■ an unenlightened inquirer gets to
the Bijou at, say, five minutes to eight, and
finds the curtain has been up for ten minutes.
The . complex action of the scene mystifies him.
Then he fails to discover a connection between
the incidents which fogged him at the start and
the mam story which begins to unfold its beauty
in a pastrycook’s shop. As a matter of fact every
little happening throws a kindly side-light on the
central character, but Melbourne of late years has
objected to the mental strain of looking for
importance in little things. Hence the necessity
for publishing a key to the cleverness of Rostand’s
famous work. The programme with its list of 46
characters offers no suggestions re their identities.
It suffices for the few critics who have read the
book of the play, but it doesn’t even distinguish
between fugitive figures that crop up in the first
or second act only—the mummers on the side
stage, the drunken lampoonist, Madame
Ragueneau and her musketeer, &c.—and others
that follow the course of the plot.
Henry Lee’s impersonation of Cyrano is a
really good treatment of a great part. The man
must be represented as a brilliant hero in every-
thing but personal appearance, yet the nose that
casts a dark shadow over his life must not be a
preposterous appendage. The actor has to
sacrifice a certain amount of De Bergerac’s
repulsiveness in order to preserve the play from
laughter. Therefore, not being very ugly, he
must not be very young and gay, otherwise his
yearning for another fellow’s girl would not look
sufficiently hopeless. Henry Lee fills the difficult
bill as a grave and somewhat dyspeptic hero,
grown old and soured before his time through
brooding over the fact that stupider men have
more charm for the ladies. There’s a heavy side
to the noble character, and Lee makes the most
of that side, because his style favors it. Some-
times he might be a finer actor than he is, but,
taking one time with another, his performance
commands great respect for its pathos, passion,
honesty, and refinement of theatrical art.
** # *
King Charles, and the girl who relinquished
the oranges of virtue for the peaches of vice, are as
popular as ever at Melbourne Princess’s. They
ought to be matters for high moral loathing, but
somehow their sin is received with great applause.
The first appearance of Sweet Nell after her fall
from the unforbidden-fruit trade, excites a burst
of admiration on account of her expensive clothes,
and when the King comes to gaze on the beauteous
ruin he has effected, the large audience evi-
dently mistakes His Gracious Nibs for a philan-
thropist, and greets him accordingly. There’s
no room in Paul Kester’s play for a per-
son of unimpeachable respectability. One of
the ladies, Olivia Vernon, is supposed to be
innocent and “right-thinking,” nevertheless her
sense of decorum doesn’t get a shock when she
finds that friend Nell ought to figure as co-
respondent in a royal divorce case. The fair
Olivia (her voice is not more manageable than of
yore) makes no pretence of feeling sorry for the
“ creature ” who went astray with the Lord’s
Anointed. Doubtless she would shudder at a
fallen sister in a state of poverty and shame, but
inasmuch as the wages of Nell’s indiscretion are
purple and fine linen, the Lady Olivia sees nothing
to complain about. The punishment fits the
crime, she thinks. '
** * *
The revived “ Runaway Girl ” is filling in
the present week at Her Majesty’s, not because
Melbourne wanted the particular Girl more, but
because it wanted the “Circus Girl” less. All
the same a stronger company might make the
“ Circus Girl ’" look the brighter comedy of the
two. As regards the moderately pleasing spinster
from the Convent of St. Pierre, there is nothing
unkind to be said. Her young man has a new
sister this time—Cecilia Ghiloni instead of Grace
Palotta—and Miss Cecilia is a nice, bouncing
blonde with an estimable singing voice. She
smiled too copiously on Saturday. Also her accent
suffered from recollections of her brave endeavor
to represent a vulgar, old, fat woman in the
previous piece, but she was a promising Miss
Ghiloni in spite of those defects. The new Car-
menita (Miss Rose Hamilton) conveyed a notion
of how the part of a middle-aged cockney gipsy
ought to be filled, consequently brother Tam
looked all the better for the change. Harold
Thorley was the tuneful minstrel addicted to
making a bee-line for the wine-shop, and the rest
of the company repeated their former appearances
with the exception that Miss Katie Milner got
there for the first time as the bride of the elderly
insectarian who fishes for butterflies. “Robin
Hood,” the very musical opera heard in Sydney
some three years ago, will be introduced to Mel-
bourne on Saturday (16th). The manager announ-
ces important special engagements for “Robin
Hood,” including a new tenor from America.
** * *
At the Opera House the programme is
mostly as it was a week ago, the latest arrival
being one Professor Fred Harcourt, who carries
the title of “England’s Great Court Magician.”
For some misguided reason “magicians” and
“jesters” are nearly always represented as
escapees from an unknown Court. The Fred in
this case is a fairly skilful and unassuming person
whose quickness of hand would doubtless deceive
the royal eye if he were employed at a court, but
seeing that a special illusionist by appointment to
Edward VII. would be none the smarter for
having converted the monarchical mouchoir into a
tea spoon, or vice-versa , the word Court confers no
extra dignity on the performer.
* * * -*
Dan Barry’s struggle with “ Uncle Tom’s
Cabin ” at the Gaiety Theatre terminates this
week in a two nights’ benefit for the Kembla
Disaster Fund. Dan will be followed by the Ada
Willoughby co. in the comedy that has changed
its baptismal style of “Jane” for “The Wrong
Mrs. Wright,” which comedy has been threatened
with an injunction on behalf of the former hus-
band, from whom Ada aforesaid derived her other
name.
#* # *
Barron Morley, the pianist from Sydney,
is appearing this week at Melbourne Town Hall.
The second matinee recital happens at 3 o’clock
this (Thursday) afternoon, and the accomplished
Barron will have the assistance of Madame Fanny
Bristow and Rudolph Himmer.
-* * * *
Aii illustration of the danger of trifling
with Cyrano de Bergerac was given at the Bijou
last Saturday. In the first act of the play,
Cyrano enters the theatre at the Hotel de Bur-
goyne, and peremptorily orders a mummer to
leave the stage, and the mummer duly flies from
the duellist’s wrath. When the final act was in
progress on Saturday, a man in the Bijou stalls
started to poke ridicule at Cyrano’s death-scene
by to imitate either the actor or Miss Wal-
dorf. Whereupon Henry Lee, as Cyrano, brought
down the.house by ordering the interjector to be
chucked out. The intrepid Gascon stopped the
play until a “ furore of applause ” announced the
expulsion of- the inane offender. Then Lee de
Bergerac took up his part again and died like a
masterful manager.
** * *
‘‘The Worst Woman” continues her
career of profitable sinfulness at Melbourne Royal.
Miss Duggan gets loyal assistance from Mi\ Wil-
lard and Mr. Inman in the principal parts. Bert
Bailey and his circus are pleasing breaks in the
horrors of the show. Also, J. H. Nunn gives a
good picture of the W.W.’s rapacious old wreck
of a father. The ancient commits forgery, bleeds
his daughter of her husband’s bank-notes, and
revels in inebriation on the proceeds; but he
draws the line of criminality at setting fire to
Miss Guildford. Which suggests that the last
remnant of a Nonconformist conscience still lurks
under the old man’s waistcoat.
** * *
At Adelaide Tivoli, the Nawns were, at
the last moment, substituted for Fagan and Byron.
There were thus three pairs of sketch or
comedietta artists in the programme, and all
Americans. The Wiltons are now putting in their
clever acrobatic turn, and by the time these lines
see print Sandow will have begun a short season
at increased prices. At the Royal (where manager
-Pollock is better, and getting about again), the
Holloway co. has started on “ The Power and the
Hlory. This may or may not be intended as a
delicate compliment to the City of Churches, but
“ e piay is not nearly as pious as it sounds.
Charles Holloway himself makes a first appearance
in it.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
State R evenue returns, so far as available, for
~ h 1902—the first month of the new financial year in
all the States, except Tasmania •
Increase as com-
Bevenue pared with
~ c , July, 1902. July, 1901.
New South Wales .. £855,100 .. £136,365
Westralia ... .. 314,062 .. 90,725
m . Decrease.
Tasmania .. .. 69,733 .. 4,901
Queensland .. .. 285,345 .. 6 464
Victoria .. .. 552,959 .. 13,920
The increase in N.S.W. is mostly in customs and by
reason of the Commonwealth tariff. The decrease in
Queensland and Tasmania is wholly in customs and
arises through the Commonwealth tariff; other revenue
shows a handsome increase. The Victorian decrease can
be all accounted for by the drop of £15,613 in railway
receipts.
The N.S.W. and Queensland expenditure
returns are the only ones available yet, and in each case
thing’s look better than they did a year ago i
New South Wales.
T , Bevenue. Expenditure. Deficit.
July, 1901 .. £718,735 £757,861 £39,126
Surplus.
» 1902 .. 855,100 804,282 50,813
Increase .. £136,365 £46,421 £39,944
With all this increase of revenue, however, the N.S.W.
loan outpouring goes on as gaily as ever. The loan ex-
penditure for July was £345,883 (at the rate of £4,150,000
a year), an increase of £95,791 as compared with July,
Queensland.
_ , „„ Bevenue. Expenditure. Surplus
July, 1901 .. £291,809 £200,863 £90)946
„ 1902 .. 285,345 154,081 131,264
Decrease .. £6464 £46,782 Z
Increase .. £40,318
Queensland’s loan expenditure for July, 1902, was £43,725
which was £9273 less than that for July, 1901, and about
one-third as much per inhabitant as N.S.W.’s record.
Evidently they have no Ovve’Sullivan in Brisbane iust
now. J
♦ # • •
So far as is known the deficits for last financial
year were these :
New South Wales (partly disguised by
treating rents of unpaid-for pro-
perties as revenue) about .. .. £350,000
Queensland 431939
Victoria ... 437’,611
South Australia „ „ ... .. 222,315
Tasmania .. ~ 44’279
, £1,486,144
Westralia has a surplus of £198,023 which would have
been a deficit of about £4518 if the State had stood on
the same footing as its neighbors, and had not been
allowed to collect inter-State customs duties. Four of
these deficits at least were foreseen and premeditated.
The Governments knew that, when their people were
relieved of taxation by the abolition of border duties, a
corresponding amount of taxation must be levied in other
directions to make good the loss—and not one of them
moved.
The Queensland Government proposes to add
the deficit quietly to the public debt, which will make
about £2,600,000 of deficits so treated. For next year it
is proposed to save £IOO,OOO by sweating the public
service; £57,000 by increased stamp, totalisator, and
port taxes ; and .£IOO,OOO by an income tax, which latter
is anew impost in Queensland. It is a very sweeping tax
in some respects. Males (and presumably females) under
21 and females whose incomes are less than £l5O are to be
exempt. Every male over 21 whose income is £l5O or
less is to pay £l, which gathers in even the smallest adult
male wage-earner. Oyer £l5O the rate is to be 6d. in the
£ when the income arises from personal exertion, and Is.
when it is derived from property. These imposts are
expected to yield about £257,000 in all, and by hard
economy, and a liberal use of loan moneys for revenue
purposes, a £IO,OOO surplus is expected next year. If
that can be kept up for 43 years it will just wipe out last
year’s shortage.
Victoria anticipates that next year’s deficit may
reach the appalling sum of £650,000. The hideously in-
capable Shiels proposes to cut £20,000 off the vote for
charities ; to save £75,000 by reducing the public service ;
£60,000 by cutting down railway expenditure; £50,000 off
the municipal endowment (which is, at least, a commend-
able idea, for the Local Government bodies should be
able, in most cases, to meet all their road and bridge ex-
penditure) ; and to pare £45,000 off general expenditure.
These savings make £250,000. Then he proposes to
“postpone” payment of £IOO,OOO, due on account of the
old deficit, which is simply adding that amount to the
public debt. Also to steal £28,000 from the Public Debt
Sinking Fund which Turner inaugurated. These all put
together make £376,000. And as a last resource, he says
he may later on propose £82,000 of new taxation. Even
if he does, he will only have really provided £332,000
towards an anticipated shortage of £650,000, for post-
poning obligations isn’t paying them. Asa weak, flabby,
hopeless man for a big crisis, Shiels about takes the cake.
A genuine all-round land tax like that of N.S.W. would
fill the bill, but it takes a fighting man, not a boneless
object with its tail in the dust, to argue with the House
of Landlords on that subject.
* * * •
The Tasmanian Treasurer reckons the next deficit
under present conditions at £122,000. He proposes to
cut down expenditure by £33,000 ; to raise £4OOO by
assessing the land for land-tax purposes at something
nearer to its real value ; £7OOO by a graduated land tax ;
£25,000 by increased railway rates ; £IO,OOO by probate
duties ; £SOOO by a receipt-stamp tax ; and £50,000 by
his new house-tax —total, £134,000. This looks good
enough, but the heavy expenditure of loan money on un-
productive works, and the constant increase in the inte-.
rest-bill that has to be met out of taxation, steadily eats
away every prospect of better things in Tasmania.
* » * *
South Australia hasn’t heen heard from yet, ex-
cept in so far that' Jenkins Iscariot is going to add the
deficit to the public debt, making about £1,100,000 of
deficits so added. And the N.S.W. Treasurer says he is
going to practise economy—which sounds about as im*


TRA.]VCWA.YS. TRAMWAYS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Proprietary, Ltd.,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material
!D®“ Locomotives from 10 to 250 h.p. “®(3
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel
Sleepers, Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical
advice gratuitously rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated
Catalogues and Photographic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different
parts of the World, upon application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
>»§p
About the best Brand for Sheep now in the
market is Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and
is considerably cheaper than any other. It will dissolve
in the scour, and should certainly be used by those who
hope to get a good price for their wool. E. Rich and 00.,
Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “ Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * «
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
**» * •
Although the severe drought has detrimentally
affected mining, there are still many mines requiring
pumps of all descriptions, and to those we would recom-
mend the A.S. Cameron Steam Pumps. Besides these, a
much-improved Gyratory Crusher is now on the market—
viz., the “Austin”- in style on the Gates’ system, but
greatly improved throughout, and having special features
which make them superior to all others. The agents for
the above are Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, 506 Little
Collins St., Melbourne. This enterprising firm is always
to the front with the best of every mining appliance,
which includes the unparalleled Luhrig Concentrating
Vanner.*
« * « •
Mine Managers, Engineers, &c. will learn with
interest that the Dunlop Rubber Mills, Melbourne, are
now prepared to quote prices and submit samples of
Suction, Drill or Air Hose, Packing, Valves, etc. of the
highest quality at prices previously unobtainable in
Australasia. Depots in all States. Correspondence
invited.*
•*• * •
Assure, August, 1901: “At the end of last
year the Colonial Mutual had attained the age of 26J
years, and it can point to a wonderful career of develop-
ment and expansion. During that period the Company
has issued no less than 85,372 policies, assuring
£26,085,346.” *
• * » •
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-street, Melbourne,
having returned from his visit to England, is now pre-
pared to purchase approved Mines and Mining Properties
situated in any part of Australasia requiring Capital for
Development and Machinery. Only genuine and
legitimate ventures, capable of bearing the strictest
examinations, will be entertained.*
* * * *
Very extensive alterations and improvements
have just been completed at the engineering works of
Mephen Ferguson, Melbourne. The principal item of
interest is a new Electric Welding plant, which is now in
use welding the steel-plates required in the manufacture
of the patent spiral riveted pipes which are in such large
demand for water-supply, mining and other purposes.
The new method of welding is giving very satisfactory
results, and is well worth seeing.*
• * * *
The antidote to cyanide poisoning, as supplied
by Ernest de Beer, 439 Bourke-street, Melbourne, has
been approved by the Victorian Mines Department as
being the only real antidote known. All who use
cyanide should keep one or two of these on hand. The
price is 10s. each.*
• * * *
A Sure Fortune.— The best investment in
Australia is buying land at Esperance, W.A., the natural
port of the Kalgoorlie goldfields. With a railway,
Esperance will become one of our busiest ports, as the
trade of the goldfields will pass through it. A permanent
survey is now being made ; the railway is a certainty.
Get in early and make a fortune by purchasing a few
blocks before the great rush sets in. Price, £2O a block.
Terms, £1 a month. Write for plans and particulars to
The Esperance Land Company, Nicholson Chambers,
Swanston-st., Melbourne.*
* * * •
Electricity in mining is being more extensively
adopted every day. The Austral Otis Engineering Com-
pany, of South Melbourne, the Australian representatives
of Ganz and Co., have just installed at the Great
Southern Consols mine, Rutherglen, a complete,plant for
the underground haulage, doing away with the old costly
system of trucking. The work is now done by electric
locomotives at a much reduced cost; the whole of the
drives and surface works are also lighted from the same
installation. This company has also supplied electric
pumping plants to the Sons of Gwalia mine, and probably
the largest electric pumps in the world for the Charlotte
Plains and New Havilah mines at Maldon. Having
secured the services of a well-known European expert,
they are now prepared to advise, and contract for any
electric service such as lighting, pumping, hauling,
traction, rock-drilling, or the generation and transmission
of power by the latest and most approved methods, and
invite inquiries.*
* * • *
The most unlucky Westralian mine in the
matter of accidental deaths of miners is the Golden
Horseshoe.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Under license from the A.G.O. of A. Ld.
SPOT or FORWARD. LOWEST PRICES.
Storage can be arranged.
HY MARK WALD,
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Auckland
Dunedin and Wellington.
probable as if he said he was going to practise Buddhism.
He doesn’t say he is going to practise political honesty,
which is quite as important.
# » * *
The Victoria Life and General Insurance
Cos. (Melbourne) does no new business nowadays, and has
done none for many years. It is quietly winding up and
waiting for its last policy-holder to die, when the re-
maining assets will be divided among the shareholders.
It and the Australian Alliance and the Adelaide Life Cos.
went out of active life business under the impression
that the day of proprietary concerns was over in this
country, and now that their place has been taken by a
lot of new proprietary co.’s, mostly of much worse re-
pute, it seems a pity that they left the business. The
recent record of the Victoria Life and General:
Funds
(apart
Ex- from
Income. Claims, penses. Dividends. Capital.)
1894.. £20,256 £8,616 £2458 15 p.c. = £6,000 £319,274
1895.. 19,813 12,251 1985 15 ~ „ 6,000 318,851
1896.. 16,995 11,868 1922 7) „ „ 3,000 319,056
1897.. 17,244 7,443 2024 12) „ „ 5,000 321,833
1898.. 15,899 12,132 2219 12) ~ ~ 5,000 318,381
1899.. 15,298 11,244 1615 15 „ „ 6,000 314,820
1900.. 14,062 8,735 1594 25 „ „ 10,000 308,553
1901.. 14,050 11,506 1484 25 „ „ 10,000 299,613
1902.. 13,068 9,179 1419 25 ~ „ 10,000 292,083
In addition to the remarkably good time the shareholders
are having now, they ought, if the assets pan out for any-
thing like their book-value, to get back not only their
capital of £40,000, but nearly £IOO,OOO of profit as well
when the general winding-up takes place. This is mere
speculation as yet, however, and the enormous dividends
now being paid may alter things, to say nothing of other
contingencies. The shareholders of the three Victorias
are whales for dividends.
* * * *
The Victoria Insurance Cos. Limited (Mel-
bourne) :
Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1893 £34,085 45 per cent, = £22,468 £11,617 £78,602
1894 24,400 45 „ „ 22,468 1,932 80,534
1895 20,741 40) „ „ 20,221 520 81,054
1896 17,058 36 „ „ 17,974 80,138
1897 18,010 36 „ „ 17,974 36 80,174
Loss. /Depreciation of assets I q« qqq
1898 23,336 \ written off 20,000 j “
Profits.
1899 14,597 9 per cent. = 4,494 10,103 46,941
1900 19,046 22) „ - „ 11,234 7,812 54,753
1901 17,374 27 „ „ 13,481 3,893 58,646
1902 23,923 27 „ „ 13,481 10,442 69,088
It is satisfactory to note that the Victoria Insurance Cos.
is at last doing something to put its reserves on
a more satisfactory footing, and, though it seems to
have the hungriest crowd of dividend-eaters in Australia,
the div. hasn’t been immediately rushed up again to
45 per cent, regardless of other considerations. The
Victoria’s accumulations consist of reserve fund, £35,000 ;
contingency fund, £12,000 ; reinsurance reserve, £11,838 ;
and undivided profit, £10,250. The gross premium in-
come is £146,948 ; and the net premium income, £87,080.
According to conservative English ideas 40 per cent, of
the latter sum should be held as a reinsurance reserve, so
the Victoria’s reinsurance reserve should be about £35,000
instead of £11,838. The fact that many Australian com-
panies have no reinsurance reserve at all is no reason why
so enormously prosperous a concern as the Victoria should
have an inadequate one. This co. has had the big-divi-
dend craze in a most aggravated form; it once paid
100 per cent, for three years in succession. Asa result
its affairs now compare with those of 22 years ago as
follows:
1880. 1902. Decreas ®
Profit £71,093 £23,923 £47,170
Reserves .. .. 76,157 69,088 7069
Dividend rate .. .. 100 p.c. 27 p.c. 73 p.c.
„ (amount) .. £44,935 £13,481 £31,454
Gross Premiums .. 149,956 146,948 3,008
Interest and Rents .. 7,481 3,686 3,795
Some other insurance offices show a more remarkable
decline, but in most cases they faded through heavy
losses ; in the case of the Victoria the decline was wholly
through the big-dividend policy. In 1881 and 1882 this
co. actually took money from its reserves to keep up the
100 per cent, dividend, the year’s profits being insuffi-
cient ! It should now decide to keep its dividends down
to 20 per cent, until it has accumulated a reserve of
£200,000 in good State securities—one that will be worthy
of the leading (or what should be the leading) fire com-
pany of Australasia.
* # • ■*
The Victoria General Insurance and
Guarantee Cos., Limited (Melbourne), from its first begin-
nings until now :
Profits. Dividends. p dded b ° Re ‘
Reserves. serves.
1890 .. £9170 10 p.c. =£2ooo £7170 £7.170
1891 .. 843 10 „ „ 2000 6,013
1892 .. 6426 10 „ „ 2000 4426 10,439
1893 .. 6283 15 „ „ 3000 3283 13,722
1894 .. 6477 20 „ „ 4000 2477 16,199
1895 .. 5629 20 „ „ 4000 1629 17,828
1896 .. 4988 25 „ „ 5000 17,816
1897 .. 3689 20 „ „ 4000 - 17,505
Loss.
1898 .. 5011 10 „ „ 2000 10,494
Profits.
1899 .. 4511 15 „ „ 3000 1511 12,005
1900 .. 3233 20 „ „ 4000 11,238
1901 .. 4741 20 „ „ 4000 741 ' 11,979
1902 .. 4301 20 „ „ 4000 301 12,280
The Victoria General Insurance and Guarantee Co.’s
accumulations consist of reserve fund, £SOOO ; contin-
gency fund, £4OOO ; and undivided profit, £3280- There
is also an item, “ Estimated Outstanding Losses and Re-
insurance Fund, £2849,” and the portion of this which is
re-insurance fund ought to be included in the reserves,
but the two items being lumped together in this rather
remarkable fashion it is impossible to dissect them. Any-
how, the re-insurance fund of a co. with £10,500 net
premium income ought to amount to about £4OOO. It, is
stated that “ depreciation, if any, is allowed for in Con-
tingency Account,” so, as there seems a fair chance that
there is depreciation to provide for, the reserves are
possibly, on a true estimate, rather less than shown above,
instead of more. The turning-point in the fortunes of
the Victoria General was in 1896, when, being then only a
young office in its seventh year, it put up its dividend to
25 per cent., and took £l2 from its reserves to make up
the amount. In four out of the last seven years the big
dividend has been paid by encroaching on the reserves.
And the co., despite its splendid profits, is not a growing
one; its gross premium income in 1891 was £11,938, and
in 1902 it was £11,398 —a decline of £540.
* * * *
The National Bank of New Zealand, from
the date of the great trouble and clean-up and resurrec-
tion until now :
p, N o«t, “*““*• SS
1892.. £19,335 5 p.c. =£12,500 £6,835 £6,835
1893.. 16,343 5 „ „ 12,500 3,843 10,678
1894.. 16,997 5 „ „ 12,500 4,497 15,175
1895.. 16,432 5 „ „ 12,500 3,932 19,107
1896.. 18,089 5 „ „ 12,500 5,589 24,696
1897.. 21,461 5 „ „ 12,500 8,961 33,657
1898.. 25,538 6 „ „ 15,000 10,538 44,195
1899.. 38,466 7 „ „ 17,500 20,966 65,161
1900.. 42,348 8 „ „ 20,000 22,348 87,509
1901.. 55,785 10 „ „ 25,000 30,785 118,294
1902.. 64,933 10 „ „ 25,000 39,933 158,227
The earnings are at the rate of £l7 12s. 7d. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders’ funds as at the commence-
ment of the year, or £25 19s. sd. per cent, on capital
alone. How these extraordinary earnings come about is
a matter that a good many other banks would be glad to
find out. Perhaps the “ruinous socialistic legislation”
of Maoriland is good for banks. Certainly in the old days
when the allegedly safe and reliable Tory party was in
charge of affairs over there, the National was a very small,
poor affair which just scraped a 5 or 7 per cent, dividend
together, and was glad when it could keep about £IO,OOO
of reserve fund intact.
The National Bank of New Zealand has
£2,732,951 of deposits, an increase of £179,696 during the
year. Its reserve of cash and State securities is £756,850,
equal to barely 23 per cent, on all liabilities to the public.
This is a better position than it showed last year ; still
the reserve isn’t a very solid one ; in the process of earn-
ing large profits the cash reserve appears to be kept quite
as low as it reasonably can be. But, taking it all round,
the National Bank of New Zealand looks quite unusually
prosperous. No bank in Australia or Tasmania shows
anything like such earning-power.
* * • *
The Mercantile Mutual Insurance Cos.
(Sydney) has, as usual, had a most profitable year :
w , B ° nus Capital
p _viL P Dividends. and
Profits. Policy- Reserves.
Holders.
Dec., 1893.. £13,097 £4395 29 p.c. =£4395 £60,389
„ 1894.. 11,572 4348 23 „ 4348 63,265
„ 1895.. 7,765 4239 22) „ 4239 62,552
„ 1896.. 12,136 4105 22 „ 4105 66,478
„ 1897.. 10,989 4152 16 „ 41-52 69,163
„ 1898.. 11,714 4384 16J „ 4384 72,109
Half-Year.
June, 1899.. 4,321 2149 16) „ 2149 72,132
Year.
June, 1900.. 11,932 4578 17) „ 4578 74,908
„ 1901.. 12,430 4818 16 „ 4818 77,702
„ 1902.. 13,229 5543 18) „ 5543 79,845
The Mercantile Mutual never makes any addition to its
reserve fund, which has stood for many years at £40,000.
When the profits accumulate they are added to capital,
consequently, though the dividend just paid is the
largest for many years, it doesn’t represent nearly as
much per cent, as the much smaller sum divided in 1893.
In 1892 the Mercantile Mutual had £15,000 paid-up
capital ; £40,000 reserve fund ; and £IOB2 undivided pro-
fit. It now has £30,000 paid-up capital; £40,000 reserve
fund ; and £9845 undivided profit. Presumably the capi-
talising process will continue till the paid-up capital
stands at £150,000, and the call liability is wholly wiped
out. The Mercantile Mutual has recently extended its
business to Melbourne, the result being that the gross
premiums have risen from £45,774 in 1900 to £55,427 in
1902. And, judging by the increased profits, it seems to
secure as good a class of business in Victoria as in N.S.W.
* * * •
1.0. F., Lilydale : You will find a policy in the
A.M.P. much cheaper and a great deal safer as well.
* * * *
Fitzgerald’s Brewing and Malting Cos.
(Oastlemaine, Victoria):
Net Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1892 £6633 12) per cent. = £SOOO £1633 £4792
1893 7170 12) „ „ 5000 2170 6962
1894 5139 124 „ „ 5000 139 7101
1895 4690 11) „ „ 4500 190 7291
1896 4655 10 „ „ 4000 655 7946
1897 4735 10 „ „ 4000 735 8681
1898 4701 10 „ „ 4000 701 9382
1899 6457 10 „ „ 4000 2457 11,839
1900 6353 10 „ „ 4000 2353 14,192
1901 7107 10 „ „ 4000 3107 17,299
£IO,OOO of reserves transferred to capital, making
it £50,000, and reducing reserves to .. .. 7299
1902 6814 10 per cent. = £SOOO £lßl4 £9113
The present 10 per cent, dividend is equal to 12) per cent,
on the capital as it stood last year, so the shareholders
are doing well.
• * * *
N.S.W. railways and tramways will show a fine
large deficit for the year just closed. Gross revenue was
£174,990 more than at June, 1901 ; but expenses increased
by £303,682 ; so the real revenue showed a decline of
£128,692. The shortage in 1901, after paying interest,
was nearly £56,000. This year, with more interest to
pay, it will probably be £200,000.
» * * *
The Malting Cos. op New South Wales is
now in its fourth year :
Divi- Carried to Preliminary
dends. Reserves. Expenses.
1899 £741
Loss. Deficit.
1900.. £735 Nil 1476
Profit.
1901.. £720 Nil £720 756
1902.. 1859 3) p.c. = £763 1096 340
Now, as last year, the co.’s largest asset reads “Land,
buildings, plant, machinery, and goodwill, £16,996.”
Concerning the italicised item three remarks may be
made :—(1) Goodwill is only a paper security and a delu-
sion ; (2) anew company which hasn’t commenced by
buying a ready-made business should have no goodwill
items, and how the Malting Cos. contrived to get one is a
mystery. In such a case it always suggests that somebody
received cash or shares without giving tangible value for
them, under which conditions this kind of entry is handy to
square the accounts with. (3) When there is a goodwill item
it should be separately stated, and the amount made
known. Also, it should be written off at the earliest
possible date. As the Malting Co.’s profits are increasing
handsomely, it should do something next year towards
putting this matter on a better footing.
* * * •
Sydney Ferries, Limited (Sydney), completes
its fifth half-year :
Carried
Profits. .Dividends. to _ lle '
Reserves. serveß-
- 1900.. £4701 7 p.c. =£4200 £5Ol £5Ol
Dec., 1900.. 5089 7 „ „ 4200 889 1390
June, 1901.. 5377 7 „ „ 4200 1177 2567
Dec., 1901.. 5268 7 „ „ 4200 1068 3635
June, 1902.. 5742 7 ~ „ 4200 1542 5177
The profits for last half-year are equal to £9 11s. sd. per
cent, on capital, so the Sydney Ferries is prospering.
* * * ♦
All things considered B.H. South has done
remarkably well in its last half-year. Gross profits (that
is, profits without deduction for depreciation of plant)
have been for the last few half-yearly terms :
£ £
June, ’99 .. 15,686 June, ’Ol .. 15,337
Dec., ’99 .. 29,731 Dec., ’Ol .. 8,695
June, ’OO .. 29,207 June, ’O2 .. 23,622
Dec., ’OO .. 30,807
It is only in the last few terms that the directors have
trusted the shareholders with any details. The period
with which the above comparison opens was while the
policy was in transition. At that time, for the six months.
43,150 tons ore was raised for 13s. 10fd. per ton and milled
for 4s. ll|d. ; but no information as to the grade of the
concentrates was given. The first full comparison pos-
sible is with the June-December half of 1899 :
June-Dee., Jan.-June,
1899. 1902.
Ore treated .. 48,137 cons 67,359 tons
Lead, value .. 23 - 4 per cent. 18 ‘33 per cent.
Silver, value .. B‘2 oz. 9‘23 oz.
Lead extracted .. 61 - 89 per cent. 70'22 per cent.
Silver extracted .. 47‘60 per cent. 54'90 per cent.
Mining costs .. 13s. Id. 10s. 3|d.
Milling costs .. 4s. 3fd. 3s. 4Jd.
In the last half-year 12,276 tons of tailings from the old
mill were also treated ; the percentages of metals re-
covered and cost of milling include the treatment of this
material. This re-treatment of tailings, which has given
2655 tons lead (about l-6th of the total), and 48,3780 z.
silver (l-14th of the total), with no expense except for re-
dressing, will cease in about six months ; and this must
seriously affect profits.
* « * *
S.M. Herald, in its financial column (12/8/’O2),
expresses its wonderment that even third-rate English
cities like Nottingham can borrow money at a much lower
rate than any of the Australian States—especially, says
the Herald, as these cities are taxed much more heavily
than we are. Probably that is just the reason why they
can borrow so cheaply. Australia is getting to be known
as a place that is lightly taxed, because its politicians
would rather accumulate deficits, and steal the sinking-
funds, and borrow any amount of money and use it for
purposes that should be charged to revenue, than
raise more taxes and be honest. People now begin to
wonder if a time is coming when it will rather repudiate its
debts than pay more taxes—and when theyfind the Herald
always ready, no matter how bad the finances may be, to
urge that revenue be sacrificed in the interests of the im-
porters, they wonder still more. The difference between
a heavily-taxed city which is heavily taxed because it
pays off 'its debts systematically out of income, and a
lightly-taxed country which uses loans as revenue in
order to remain in that lightly-taxed condition, is shown
in the fact that Manchester can get money now at £2 10s.
9d. per cent., while N.S.W. pays £3 3s. 6d. per cent.
• •* *
Mr. William Cain, chairman of Cobar Chesney,
is as sanguine as ever as to the possibility of working it
at a profit as a self-dependent concern. In the trial run
of the concentration plant, made in April last, 420 tons of
ore produced 77) tons of concentrates containing by assay
1023 units of copper and 19oz. gold. Taking these figures
as a basis of calculation, Mr. Oain works out a statement
thus :—Or.: 1023 units of copper at 10s., £slllos. ; 19oz.
gold at £4, £76 ; total, £587 10s. Dr. : Mining and con-
centrating 420 tons of ore at 125., £252 ; smelting
77) tons concentrates at £2, £154 10s. ; balance,
£181; total, £587 10s. This would represent a profit
of about Bs. 7d. per ton of ore. It will be noted
that no allowance is made for loss in smelting. The
important question is : Can concentrates be smelted at
Cobar in reverb, furnaces for £2 per ton, inclusive of
realisation charges ?At Wallaroo the cost of producing
a ton of copper is over £6O, and as labor is dearer at
Cobar, transport-charges much heavier, and fuel certainly
not less costly, writer has doubts about cheaper work
being done. By a combination of blast and reverb, fur-
naces it is possible that costs might be brought below
that figure, but at present Mr. Cain seems to favor reverb,
furnaces only. On one point he is thoroughly sound :
i.e., that if the co. attempts any system of smelting it
must produce the finished metal. It would be courting
failure to produce matte for disposal to other co’s., whose
abnormal profits represent corresponding loss to the
producing co’s.
m * * *
White Cliffs opal field reckons it will have a
water-famine soon ; other places would reckon it had
been in the middle of one for a month. Every drop of
water has to be carted from 12 to 15 miles ; every bite of
horse-feed has to come from Broken Hill, 90 or 100 miles,
over a track which is itself a sandy desert, with half the
watering-places dry. Very few teams can get through at
all; those that do have to take out nearly as much feed
for the road (there and back) as they carry loading. The
price is £l2 a ton, and rising. As many of the opal-
gougers as can have cleared out; those that hang on
have been lately doing only fairly. The gem-expert,
whom the English co. which owns so much of the field
lately sent out, has resigned and left; and the future of
the co. looks more hopeless than ever.
* •* »
The half-yearly report of Great Cobar Cos. dis-
closes that three shareholders have begun a suit in Equity
to prevent the agreements recently adopted by the vast
majority of holders being carried into effect. These
agreements provide for the settlement of the previous
Equity suit, and the granting of alternative options to
purchase the mine. The balance-sheet also reveals that,
although the tribute syndicate was supposed to have
bought the mine in Dec., 1900, for £315,416, it
has paid only £88,106 to date. It is true that an Equity
suit was promptly instituted with a view to stopping the
sale, but, as an ordinary business transaction, it might
have been assumed that the purchasers would either pay
the money to be held in trust, or continue to pay the
royalties provided for in the original tribute agreement,
these, also, to be held in trust pending the settlement of
the law-suit. But neither has been done, so that,
apart from the instalment of about one-fourth of the
purchase-money, the co. has not received any revenue
for over a year and a-half. It is rumored that the second
tribute syndicate, which had an agreement to date from
theexpiry of theJßeid-Longworthterm,and which received
£40,000 compensation for the cancellation of that con-
tract, has received notice of an intended suit to recover
the amount. Law seems to have ineffable charms for
some people.
* ** *
Now is boom time, and the Charters Towers
brokers are stacking cash. Recent developments in the
Brilliant Extended have filliped its neighbors. The
“ Way Leaves Bill,” passed last session, has removed to a
great extent the obstacle of freehold rights which retarded
work in several claims. Plant’s new shaft, which is ex-
pected to cut the Day Dawn reef at 2400 ft., has been
started, and the presence of good stone in the lowest
levels of the Day Dawn g.m. (the most westerly claim
working on that line), opens fair prospects for the success
of the deep shaft. Last-mentioned mine is crushing well,
and paying 6d. div. regularly. Several pups have been
thrown into the pool to sink or swim, and so far all have
floated, but whether continual calls will knock them out
or not time alone can tell. The truth of the “ Horse-
shoe” theory will be tested now, as leases have been
pegged out and floated for a mile outside its recognised
western limits, ending with the Great Britain and Day
Dawn, and the Ruby No. 1 South on the S.-E.. Writer
shrewdly suspects that Day Dawn was tacked on to Great
Britain to give it a flavor, as in the old days it was Great
Britain pure and simple. Ruby has been crushing fairly
well for some time, but has been contemptuously ignored
because it was “outside the circle.” A year ago paid-ups
could be bought for Is. ; now there are buyers at 7s.
* ** *
Smith’s Creek (N.Q. tin) has been the finest
gambling stock in Australia for some months. At first
Adelaide had the game to itself; then Melbourne joined ;
now Sydney. In Adelaide there have been well-defined
bull and bear parties ; only lately, the bulls having over-
sold, they changed places for a while with the bears
and knocked the market down to £l. Then Capt.
Warren’s report came along and picked it up again.
(Capt. Warren, by the way, is a very fine miner ; but it is
quite easy to attach too much importance to his opinion
of a tin proposition.) It is unfortunate for the reputa-
tion of the co. that three big spec.-ing brokers
should be directors ; the knock-out of the market just
before Warren’s favorable report was given to the public
smelt bad if it wasn’t. The co.’s first meeting was held
August 11. For it manager Potter made some interesting
estimates. He has two shafts down 100 ft. apart, and
drives proving 50ft. more. Trenches and shallow work-
ings on other shows have proved, he says, 250 ft. more
ground ; but to his 150 ft. he adds 50ft. each end ; adds
25ft. to his proved depth ; takes the average width as
20ft. and the average value as 8 per cent, black tin ; adds
50,000 tons of alluvial 2 percent, stuff ; and works out the
lot as containing £303,000 with tin at £IOO, or £490,000
with tin at £l3O. Costs, he says, will be covered by 1 per
cent. —so low because the stuff is very soft, requires
no stamps, and is easily dressed. Writer doesn’t pretend
to say how much this estimate is worth. One thing most
certain, though, is that the ore-body (whatever it is, lode
or pocket) is very irregular. In a few feet it changes
from 40 per cent, to 1) per cent, ore, and in width from
25ft. to 10ft. It would be only reasonably safe to calcu-
late the value of such a body when the ore had been
blocked out—when, anyhow, at least three sides had been
exposed. This has not been done in this case. The
estimate therefore looks like a guess, and the stock still
looks like a gamble, even though a dozen men report in
favor of the mine. Financially the co. is in a moderately
easy way. It has 100,000 shares, 21,985 of them unissued ;
£7416 unpaid instalments of purchase money on the last
redistribution (nearly all this has been paid since the
balance-sheet was issued); £5964 cash, and no creditors to
speak of. Apparently, however, nothing has yet been
paid towards the 100-ton plant which is under order.
Captain Warren’s report had not, at time of
writing, £een completed ;it will not be with the directors
till late in Aug. Meantime he writes that his estimate of
the value of the lode is 4 per cent.—and manager Potter’s
is 8 per cent. ! If Warren is right, what becomes of the
money-value estimate of £300,000 odd ? For, of course,
this would reduce the value by more than one half :in the
one case (assuming it takes 2 per cent, to pay) there
would be 2 per cent, for profit ;in the other case there
would be 6 per cent. Also, if we were to lop off from the
manager’s estimate the value of the ore which he only
assumes exists (the 25ft. below the 100 ft. level and the
50ft. beyond the ends of the drives) there would be less
than £IOO,OOO left. Potter may be right; Warren may be
right. It is at present a guess, a gamble.
• * * *
There is a Yes-No flavor about Captain War-
ren’s telegraphic reports on Smith’s Creek tin-mine,
N.Q. The first message read: “Report is favorable.
Average width of lode, 20ft. Average assay value of ore
in the mine, 4 per cent, tin oxide. Assay from dump
average, 5 per cent, tin oxide. Mine is payable. Will
probably turn out good mining property. Furthei
developments necessary.” Evidently he was wired to for_
something more definite, and he sent this cautious reply :
“Mine highly payable at present. Further development
is necessary to prove its permanence.” The full report
will probably show some artistic beating about the bush.
The practical man will ask why.is it that the assays are
returned in “ tin oxide” and not in “ metallic tin ?” Is
it because 2‘B and 3 - 5 per cent, respectively would look
too small ? Smith’s Creek has been boomed on reports of
from Bto 10 per cent, value in “metallic tin.” No won'
der that shares had a slump when Warren’s “ oxide ” as*
says were reported.
* * * *
Brilliant Deep Levels (C.T.) being resuscitated.
Old co. sunk a vertical shaft 2550 ft. to catch the Brilliant
reef on its underlie. The lode was cut at 2349 and 2413 ft.
level, but was of low grade. New co. proposes to sink on
the underlie from the 2413 ft. level. It is anticipated that
the rich pay chute now being worked in the Brilliant
Extended will be cut in from 400 to 500 ft. of sinking.
50,000 new shares of 10s. each being issued at 3d. on
application and 3d. on allotment, and the balance in
monthly calls not exceeding 3d. This is a laudable enter-
prise and a perfectly legitimate flotation, seeing that the
old shareholders are to get nothing more than shares, the
full capital value of which is just about what they have
spent on the property (£70,000). The only objection
which can be urged against the scheme is that it is too
liberal in the method of raising the money. In such a
brisk market as now exists at the Towers, and with every
man having a fulness of faith in the deep ground, it would
surely have been as easy to raise Is. per share at the out-
set as 6d. With £2500 to start with, and 3d. calls to
follow, there would hardly have been a risk of the co.
being stranded for funds when the inevitable reaction
takes place.
* * * *
Two years ago, when Jack Want was in England
and was badly wanted in Sydney to assist in the Anti-
Federal fight, it was cabled that he was quite indifferent
to local politics, as he had just made a big pile out of a
Queensland mine. That mine was Dottswold Freehold,
and Jack had the melancholy duty of performing the
funeral obsequies of the show on Tuesday last. As chair-
man of the co. he had to notify that all work had been
suspended owing to lack of funds, contributing share-
holders having declined to pay any more calls, and the
directors were not disposed to incur further responsi-
bility. He also stated that negotiations for the sale of the
mine in England were in abeyance.
* » * * *
“ M.” casts a pessimistic eye on the Briseis co.:
“ During 1901 the Briseis Tin Mines raised 109 tons of tin,
worth £12,247 (average per ton, £112). The cost of
winning this tin was £15,527, of which £2262 was London
expenditure. Four directors cut up £llsO a-year among
them, and the secretary gets £450. The co. owed its
bankers £19,487, and, as eight (8) months have elapsed
since, it is likely this loan has grown stouter. No infor-
mation is given re the cost of the race, which is 30 miles
long, though it looks as though it had cost £51,752 eight
months ago. One thing is quite certain from the balance-
sheet, the co. must raise more capital, and dividends are
hull-down on the horizon.”
(Continued on page SO.)


DAVID JONES# COMPANY
HIGH-CLASS HATTERS
Genuine Fine Grade
Hand Selected
PANAMAS
PRICES UPON
APPLICATION . . . -*a
*
6EOR6E at)d BARRACK STS., SYPNCY
CEREBOS
TABLE SALT
The Silent. . . .
Constitution Builder.
From Grocers and Stores. Wholesale Agents Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
SOCIETY
Australian daily-paper accounts of the
Coronation in London gave about a page of cabled
matter rubbish, disconnected as a narrative,
Miculons in its pretentious efforts at fine writing.
Ims bit, for instance, following a detailed descrip-
tion of the carpets in the Abbey (which might
naturally have concluded with the name of the
enterprising firm,” etc., etc.)
The spectacle of the two transepts was the most brilliant
piece of color in the whole pageant. The flashes of
diamonds m the Peeresses’ gallery, especially on the
trains and skirts of the Ladies-in-Waiting, when they
arrived at the foot of the platform, were like the ripple of
sunshine on rough water, or the scintillation of dewdrops
in the morning sunlight.
Then follows a trifling detail about a couple of
artists being stowed away out of sight in some
corner. Why hadn’t these “great dailies” of
Australia the enterprise and the discretion to put
up £lOO or £2OO among them to get a descriptive
!^ 1Q .f* rs fc flight to send them a graphic
5000 words, instead of chucking at the public a
medley of silly high-faluting, furniture catalogues,
millinery detail, “faldstools” and fal-de-rals, in
big type, eked out with many cross-heads ? The
daily papers cater for a public whose literary
appetite they imagine to be on a par with the
idea of luxury of the lucky miner, who was going
‘to have bacon and eggs three times every
blooming day, by gosh he was.” Perhaps they
are right.
Sydney D.T. put the coping-stone on the edifice
of absurdity by “literal” errors full of humor.
One choice extract {verb, et lit)-,
Behold, these shall come from afar ; and 10, these from
the north and from
When the homage was ended the drums beat and the
trumpets sounded, and all the vast congregation shouted
aloud “Bod Sale King Edward!” “Long Live King
Edward ! ” “ May the King Liver for Ever ! ”
The solemnity of the King’s Coronation being thus
ended, the Archbishop left the King in his throne and
went to his chair.
The “sale,” the “liver,” the “solemnity” 1 Ye
gods!
AN EASY ONE .
“ What would you do if you drew the first horse in the Melbourne Cup?" “Nothing! "
Are visions about ? The Ananias at the
other end of the cable has reported that King
Edward is going to receive Boer generals
Botha, De Wet, and De la Key, and possibly
others, as a special mark of honour, and the
utterly disgusting news hasn’t made one Jingo
arise in protest. For the be3t part of three years
we were assured, on the best Jingo oath and
assurance, that the Boers (and especially two out
of these three particular Boers) were ruffians, liars,
cowards, oppressors, hypocrites, slave-drivers,
thieves, insulters of women, treacherous mis-
creants who assassinated their enemies under the
white flag artifice; also that they were cruel,
dirty, ignorant, lazy, uncouth, unlettered, and
given to living on a mud floor. We had
these facts on the evidence of the IVEelbourne
Stock Exchange, of the church generally, of
the Tasmanian papers, of the people who
were drunk on Mafeking night, of the
Legislative Councils, of the sweaters and nigger-
labor crowd, and of almost every respectable
citizen who ever ran a fraudulent bank or floated
a “cat” mine, and diddled the poor out of their
savings, and then complained of their lack of
“thrift.” And now we are told that Edward
VII. is going to receive, as a special honor and
mark of esteem, the leaders and representatives of
this alleged horde of ruffians, and to extend to them
his sacred hand. Nothing is said about them being
purified by the Archbishop of Canterbury before
the meeting, or disinfected by the royal physician,
or searched for white flags and concealed weapons.
And everybody is quite calm. Does this mean
that the Jingo crowd has been lying all this while ?
Or does it mean that Edward VII. is such a low
character himself that it doesn’t matter whom or
what he consorts with ? Or what does it mean ?
* * * *
The discovery that the brightest jewels in
the British crown are made of paste recalls
an incident in Daudet’s realistic romance,
“ Kings in Exile,” the novel which seems to have
given the cue for Anthony Hope’s “Prisoner of
Zenda. ” When the dethroned Queen of Illyria
makes up her mind to spoil her worthless hus-
band’s crown to pay the household exes, she puts
it in the hands of Elysee, the tutor of her infant
son, and asks him if he knows his way to a likely
pawnbroker. “The crown ! For 600 years it has
been in.the royal house of Illyria. Kings have
died, rivers of noble blood have flowed in its
defence. Now it must help us to live. It is all
we have left. ... Some of the stones must be
prised out —the biggest.” So Elysee, the fanatic
royalist, groaning over the desecration of the
crown, prises the big stones from their setting,
and takes them next day to “uncle,” returning
with the news that they are all false. H.M. the
King had been the first robber of his own blessed
diadem.
* • * •
“ The Australasian Coronation contin-
gents,” writes The Bulletin’s London correspon-
dent, “have bad a particularly decomposed period
up to now. Camped in an out-of-the-way hole
like the Alexandra Palace—their officers are wise
enough to flee it like an orderly-bin—not extrava-
gantly fed nor entertained, their coronating is by
no means all slieoak and quoits. Half the time
the grounds are a quagmire, and at others merely
the resort of the tired trollop. These shamelessly
haunt the ‘Black’camp, half-a-mile away, to such
an extent that a hundred of them were found at
midnight in the tents of Dyaks, Wei-hai-weians,
Nigerians, Malays, &o.”
* * * •
Mb. Kembla colliery disaster calls atten-
tion to one of the great mysteries of chemistry,
how the difference of an atom of an inherently-
harmless substance in a compound can convert it
from comparative innocuousness to greatest dead-
liness. One part of carbon with two parts of
oxygen is a mixture which life will tolerate ; one
part of carbon with one part of oxygen kills the
blood in a flash. It is as if one spoonful qf whisky
with two lumps of sugar was all right, but one
spoonful of whisky with one lump of sugar was
sudden death. The analogy, of course, is not
perfect. There is a vast difference between a
mixture and a compound. But what the differ-
ence, and why the difference, chemistry doesn’t
really know, and will never know, perhaps, until
the day that the discovery is made that there is
no such thing as dead matter on earth, and that
the chemist’s atom of gas is a first cousin to the
microbe.
Meanwhile there is an entrancing problem for
th© chemist on the edge of solution—“the fixing
of air nitrogen.” With that solved on economical
lines, there would be no such thing as barren land.
Yankee chemists think now that with the aid of
electricity they can make nitrates direct from the
air, performing in the laboratory what Nature
does in her way when the careful farmer plants a
crop of cow-pea (which draws nitrogen from the
air) and ploughs it in. A query then : If this
succeeds, and the air can be robbed in wholesale
fashion of its nitrogen, how will that loss be sup.
A GENEROUS OFFER .
YOUNG ’UN: “ Here y’ar, mister. I'll swop yer
a ticket for the newsboys’ picnic for two
packets of cigs. Yer can tike yer girl and
have an orl-right time. I can’t go meself—
’revious engygement.”
plied ? A fixed decrease in the amount of the air’s
nitrogen would be a serious thing for all breathing
creatures.
* * » *
This, from a locomotive fireman, is printed
for what it may be worth :
Writer adds his testimony as to the explosiveness of
Mt. Kembla coal. When using it dry and powderv, as it
often is, I have sometimes lost a lot of whiskers, eye-
brows, &e. It ignites and explodes almost before leaving
the shovel. The fire is also terrifically hot when the
coal bunker contains “ Kembla.” Was much surprised at
reading that naked lights were used in the mine.
* * * *
The unexplained Mt. Kembla colliery
explosion raises serious practical questions. Before
it occurred, Mt. Kembla mine was regarded by
all who knew it as the safest in Australia, perhaps
in the world. Now it is said that no colliery is
safe. What was it that exploded—coal-gas or
coal-dust ? No one seems to know. The mine
was never regarded as either gassy or dusty. It
looks very much as if the only chance of abso-
lutely safe coal-getting lies in making the use of
safety-lamps universal and compulsory in all
collieries, whether known to be dusty or
gassy. After what has happened the use of
naked lights in collieries seems far too
dangerous to be longer permitted, The safety-
lamp gives such a dim and inadequate light
that the miner will not use it if lie can help it:
and now there is a fortune awaiting the man who
can invent a practicable electric incandescent lamp,
light enough to be carried on the miner’s hat,
and capable of going for eight hours without
attention or possibility of failure short of actual
breakage.
* * • *
Despite its occasional man-eating catas-
trophes, coal-getting is not the most deadly form
of mining in N.S.W. For 10 years its butcher’s
bill has averaged 1*54 per 1000 employees ; the
Broken Hill bill is over 2, and was for several years
2‘4. Copper-mining kills very little under 2 •
gold-mining (in N.S.W.) under 1, as against 1*39
per 1000 in Yic. during the last 20 years.
* • * *
If a miner has to be killed, his widow is
luckiest if he dies along with 30 or 40 others in
some sensational way that pricks the printer to
get out his big black type; for then,'and only
then, will she get a dole of charity from outside.
The great public has been moved by a pro-
per sympathy (some of it practical, too) for the
Kembla sufferers. It gave hardly a thought,
and possibly not a penny, to those depending on
the 200 odd miners who, during the last four years
have died in N.S.W. through a rock falling here’
and a rock falling there, in a way that didn’t
justify more than a bald two-line par. to the effect
that John Smith, who was injured last week by a
fall of earth, died yesterday. Over this far larger
number of plain John Smiths there hasn’t been a
thrill—but the little Smiths have been just as
hungry as if their fathers had filled the papers
when they died. When the hungry cry of these
little Smiths moved the miners’ members in the
Assembly to fight for the Miners’ Accident Relief
Fund, they did for the working miner a finer thing
than was, perhaps, ever done at one stroke for any
other single body of workmen in Australia.
• • * *
Miners from other collieries, who were
amongst the rescue parties at Mt. Kembla, show
an unwillingness now to enter their own mines.
Many of them, who had risked their lives tramp-
ing many weary miles in the death-trap, hesitate
to go into mines supposed to be quite safe.
* * * »
“ There are now living at North Sydney,”
says a local print, “two children from N. Queens-
land, aged respectively 7 and 5 years of age, who
until the recent downfall had never seen rain.”
“ R.A.K.” (Melbourne) on “ living a
little way out”:—
We tried it (about ten miles out, on a high road) for
two weeks and a holiday ; ’twas the holiday that smashed
us up. As dawn was breaking we got up, and dispensed
hot water to several young chaps who were camping near
by, taking care of the paraphernalia of a big picnic going
to happen that day. From 8 till 12 the air was thick with
clouds of dust raised by various picnics making for the
country. (The Chinamen’s was most cheerful and
holiday-looking, they had such a lot of nice you Ma-
ladies in their van.)
A.t noon a small boy shouted at the top of a
shrill voice : “ I say, give us some onions, quick ;
our horse has the gripes.” Just as we got back
to dinner—another knock : “ Have you got any
■ axle-grease?” said a young woman. “Any fat
’ll do ! ” roared out a man in a cart outside the gate
Then we filled two or three dozen teapots and billies
with boiling water, and loaned a corkscrew and our
“Midget” cycling outfit, and bolted the gates and
doors, and had a peaceful hour, until we caught
sight of a large array of Sunday-school women and
children, with baskets and sticks, standing out-
side the fence looking at our apples.
Bounded out at once, and, after an excited de-
bate, they went away disappointed and grum-
bling. Stayed there all the afternoon, and in-
formed hundreds of astonished unbelievers that
our fruit wasn’t a part of the free show. We also
loaned some matches, a little tea, “ and a needle
and cotton to mend Ruby’s dress.” We loaned a
. newspaper to a grandfather, because he couldn’t
join ln the sports, and numberless little packets of salt,
mustard and sugar went on their way rejoicing.
Two ladies were accommodated on our couches, be-
cause the heat had made them faint, and then we
were full-up.
The picnics began slowly to return, but they
begged for candies in vain. Wheels broke down
outside our very gates, but we were not inte-
rested.. Even u hen the boy came for just one
more onion, he was sent empty away. Oh, it’s
grand living a little way out 1
For out-and-out misstatement it would be
hard to beat Premier Irvine’s assertion when
replying to the Vic. public servants on the
retrenchment question, that private employers all
round were either reducing wages or casting their
employees adrift altogether, it would be impos-
sible for Mr. Irvine to prove anything of the kind,
because it does not exist, wages being, in the
least progressive of trades, merely stationary,
whilst in the others they have been rising,
though slowly. But his speech was exactly
what mean employers wanted, and they will be
quick to avail themselves of the excuse given them
by the first Tory Premier Victoria has had in
recent years, to cut their employees to the bone.
And any general reduction of wages will be the
very worst thing that can happen to Victoria at
the present time of drought and high prices.
When the housewife grumbles about these
matters, it is only necessary to cut down
her husband’s pay a little to start a big flare
up, but anything like a general strike in Victoria
just now would cripple the State of Sliiels the
Raven for another ten years at least.
•», * »
One of the Melb. daily-paper offices, which
was in the forefront of the Kyabram agitation,
was so eager to follow the Irvine Govt’s retrench-
ment lead that on the very next day its bosses
hinted to some of their employees that they should
be prepared for an all-round reduction of screws,
and a cutting-down of the literary staff. Yet the
Melb. morning papers are more understaffed now
than ever before in their history, and the lives of
the hard-worked newsgetters have been rendered
doubly damnable by the fact that there are now
two Parliaments to deal with instead of one. At
one time each daily was represented in the State
Parliament by a corps of half-a-dozen experts; it
happens sometimes nowadays that less than that
number are distributed between the Federal and
local Parliaments to do the whole of the arduous
work, although doubled in quantity.
* » * *
The horrors of the middle passage on board
the old-time slaver have been fairly matched by
the experiences of the returning Australian con-
tingents in the Imperial transport Drayton
Grange. Close on 2000 men crowded into a ship,
only fit to carry half the number, and with in-
sufficient stores and medicines, shows what an
indecent hurry the S’African authorities are in to
get rid of their Australian allies. The war was
over, there.were to be no more farms burned,*no
more “drives,” where the “colonials” were
wanted to fill up gaps in the line. If kept longer
they would only eat their own heads off at ss. a
day, and might give trouble. It would be better
to ship them right away and have done with
them. All the arrangements showed reckless
haste. There was no room to sling the hammocks,
and the atmosphere below is described as “foetid.”
Men slept, packed like herrings, on the decks.
The hospital only had accommodation for 40
patients (2 per cent, of the total instead of the
normal 10 per cent.). When measles broke
out, 15 cases were put into the “ officers’ smoking-
room,” and then the already-overcrowded troop-
decks were further encroached on by putting up a
canvas partition. It is worth notice that not a
single case occurred among the officers, who had
not the decency to crowd themselves a little so as
to let the hospital overflow into the saloon. After
all, the officer only, exists for the soldier, not the
soldier for the officer, and it is scarcely less a re-
proach to the officers on board the Drayton
Grange to say that they escaped the infection
that prostrated their men than it would be to say
that they all came unhurt out of an action in
which many of their men had fallen. Both facts
might be susceptible of very simple explanation,
but they will bear explaining. In any case, the
next time the Empire wants help, it is to be hoped
that Australians will not forget the Drayton
Grange and the horrors of the middle passage, as
an example of the way the Empire shows its
gratitude.
* » » *
Some sorb of effort is being made to gloss
over the facts of the Drayton Grange horror (2000
men sent to sea, with an epidemic on board, in a
vessel designed to carry 1000 passengers); and


Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address. —
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-street
or King-street, Sydney.*
**Dis is wot
1 CROWED ON /Vi
Mj
il
TRAfIE afcgMkWftßß
Lj^CTOßl^li
WOLFE’S SCHNA PPS
Australia's
Leading Tonic
Beverage.
with that end in view the report of Capt. Shields,
senior medical officer on board, was suppressed
by the military authorities, but afterwards
found publication in the Melbourne papers. Dr.
Shields’, report is a hair-raising condemnation of
War Office mismanagement and cruelty. But of
what interest is it to Australia? Australia has
already allowed, without protest, her citizens to
be shot, imprisoned, and degraded as scapegoats
for the sins of all the British army : why should
she now stick at a few men being needlessly killed
in order to earn for the War Office “a record in
transport work?”
* * * »
From a Bulletin correspondent who in-
spected the Drayton Grange at Melbourne :
One of the hospitals rigged up on board —and this not
the worst—was l(ift. by 9ft. by 9ft., and in to this cupboard 18
unfortunate invalids had to be jammed. Others of these
dens were so dark and foul that the doctors could never
see the faces of the patients, and could never remain
long in them if they hoped to keep thoir own health.
Men slept and ate in the same rooms, which it was
almost impossible to clean out for the mass of packed
humanity. Many had to doss on the decks, and
even on the unguarded, open roofs of horse-boxes.
There was no provision, in a four weeks’ voyage, for baths ;
men were lucky if they got a basin of water and room to
turn round and wash themselves. The supply of drugs
and medicines was disgracefully inadequate, and even the
primary rule of any transport service—the provision of
sufficient life-boats and belts —was calmly flouted. For
passengers and crew numbering over 2000 souls, the
Drayton Grange was provided with boat accommodation
for 955 ! In case of shipwreck or fire, half of those on
board would inevitably have had to drown.
* * * *
The military panjandrums who looked
after the Drayton Grange are the grandsons of
those who sent a consignment of wooden legs to
the British soldiers in the Crimea when they were
starving.
* • * *
The indications that the death of W. H. L.
Ranken, owner of TinderrV Station, near Goul-
burn, N.S.W., was not a case of suicide but
murder, make vocal the ordinarily mute horror of
the Australian wilderness. How many bodies
similarly disposed of have not been exhumed !
How many men whose names are written in the
chronicles of the “lost” went down in unequal
combat !
• mm*
Notwithstanding that “ things are very
bad ” in Melbourne, the recent exhibition at the
Vic. Artists’ Gallery scored record attendances.
On the last Saturday over 300 people paid a
shilling at the door. On the two Sundays when
local appreciation of art was able to express itself
gratis the free admissions ran into four figures—a
crushing protest against the Sabbatarianism which
keeps the National Gallery closed against its
owners, the Public, on their weekly holy-day.
The fact that each time more than 1000 people
availed themselves of the not-generally-known
opportunity to inspect these V. A. S. pictures
might be quoted as further evidence of Melbourne’s
fondness for free shows. But it happened that
the Society broke the Sawbath law by offering
catalogues for sale, and a fair proportion of the
visitors invested saxpence in a catalogue. Now
the person who buys a catalogue doesn’t wait for
Sunday in order to save a shilling.
* * * *
That Victorian girl who is charged with
the hideous cruelty of leaving her illegitimate
infant for two frosty nights in a paddock, was a
Sunday-school teacher, and had quite recently
received a testimonial from her fellow-teachers in
recognition of the good work she had done in
shoving the chariot along. The Sunday-school
has been receiving a number of advts. in Victoria
of late—including the episode of the young woman
teacher who insisted on sharing a room with the
elderly man superintendent at the hotel, whereby
that good but helpless person was so shocked that
he couldn’t sleep.
THE LOST CHORD.—NEW VERSION.
Paris Nesbit, K.C., was induced to drop
his prosecution, for Conspiracy, of the opposing
witnesses in the Adelaide divorce-trial. Symon,
on the other side, acting with great consideration,
suggested that Nesbit had, no doubt, acted from a
sense of his duties as a K.C.; but now he had
thrown up his brief in the principal case he might
leave the side-issue to others. Nesbit accepted
this suggestion, but next day he was back in the
Supreme Court proceeding against Homburg,
M.P., for refusing (as a J.P.) to grant a criminal
information against Chief Justice Way, Kingston,
and one or two doctors, the charge being that
these last had committed Nesbit to an asylum for
several weeks about four years ago, during an
attack of eccentricity. Way is now Lieut.-Gov.
of the State, and it is- a nice point whether crimi-
nal proceedings against him can even be com-
menced; but Nesbit’s knowledge of the law is un-
rivalled, and the state of his health does not
seem to affect it at all.
What a multitude of chances there are for
the men who go down to the sea in ships, and there
view the tempest, and the clam, and the
whelk, and the sea-serpent, and the St.
Elmo’s fire, and other wonders of the
deep! A few days ago an Italian
barque crawled anxiously into Glenelg
(S. A.). It had been burning for a period
variously described as seven days and
one month. The hatches were battened
down to keep the fire from breaking out.
The provisions couldn’t begot at; the
men were starving, and were also roost-
ing on the rail as much as possible
because the deck was so hot that it
blistered their feet. Yet Julius Caesar
and co. brought her into port. And the
wages for that kind of thing are about
12s. a week and hard biscuits.
* * • *
In one district of Victoria there
is a place known as the “House of
Seven Twins.” It originally belonged
to J R , to whom came the first
couple of innocents. He sold to D
S , whose wife shortly presented
him a pair. They were followed by
A. L. T—— and family, who also found
twins. J R—r — next took up his
abode there —and was soon blessed
with a brace. He shifted, and the place
was then occupied by H F—— and
family, with the same result—twins.
It is at present owned by the parent of
the sixth set of twins born in the
house.
* * * *
The colored brother has a gift for
developing ing strange and unpleasant
diseases. The “sleeping sickness” is
the latest to play havoc in Africa (but
there are three cases under treatment
in London hospitals). A nigger falls
into a lethargy, takes no interest in life,
and usually passes out of it in a sort of
general paralysis. So far, it has attacked
natives only; but 20,000 of them are known
to have died in the last epidemic, and the
Royal Society is standing in with the Colonial
Office to send out experts to report. It is not so
long since bubonic plague, also, was supposed to be
fatal only to the colored person.
• * * *
One of many ex-cohentingenters, unem-
ployed in Melbourne, wails to the Age about the
Jingoes’ broken promises and winds up :
It is three months since the Aurania left Capetown and
still we cannot get any word about the back pay owing
to us, which in my own case is about £5O. It is hard now
that the work is done to return home and find our former
billets gone, and no pay available, and patriotism dead.
It is hard ! Let the younger generation remember
it when the next jingo epidemic attacks this
country—say, in about 10 years time.
♦ * * *
The wide circulation of the portraits of
the two men suspected of the Shepherd-street
tragedy gives interest to the fact that last year
the N.S.W. police photographer prepared 44,914
portraits. And that is independent of the records
of the Prison Dept., which, however, is to some
extent giving up sun-pictures in favor of hand
impressions and skull measurements.
* * * *
People are amazed at the appearance of an
anti-R.C. lecturess in Melbourne Hibernian Hall,
but that building has fallen into the hands of the
Scotch, although Shamus Turlough O’Brallaghan
went over from Carrickfergus and peopled Scot-
land with his own hands, so he did. Archbishop
Carr is going to build the new St. Patrick’s Hall
up by the Cathedral, if possible.
After many years things have begun
to hum a little about the N.S.W. native
wine trade. Wine is adulterated, the
winegrowers say. The chief complaint
that men who want a drink in town make
is that the trade is adulterated—mixed
inextricably with another which generally
keeps out of sight till'the lamps are lit.
Three-fourths of Sydney and suburban
wine-shops—many of them run under the
names of well - known vineyards—would
make better sport for the Social Gimlet-
hole people than would the much-abused
“ private bars ” of the hotels.
An enthusiastic Frenchman, Henri Col-
line, who recently visited Hans Irvine’s
big vineyard at the Great Western, near
Ararat (Vic.), thus breaks out in Mel-
bourne Leader: —
A rich claret . . . claims attention at once by
its raciness, accompanied with that soft mellow-
ness which has been described by a French con-
noisseur as “it tastes like a yard of velvet.”
Unctuous, with a full body, but exquisitely grace-
ful and round, and having a broad aromatic
bouquet, it is a wine which, my countrymen
would say, you can drink without “ fatiguing ”
either head or stomach.
And then, further on:—
Who then dares pronounce an anathema upon
that beverage which received our Master’s marked
approval; that beverage which stimulates happy
thoughts, which banishes the material and en-
thrones the ideal, which brings solace and joy
to lessen the dark lines of sorrow and trouble
which have been the common lot of humanity
since the banishment from Paradise.
The Bulletin would like to be behind
the door or under the table when the
Y.M.C.A. and the W.O.T.U. discuss this.
As a big property-owner in Hobart,
“ Tattersall ” Adams (who says he will spend
£lOO,OOO locally in building-improvements within
three years) promises to upset a number of local
traditions, among others the ancient one of City
Council opposition to modern sanitation. “Tatt.”
maintains that the proposed underground-drainage
scheme must be carried out, and smiles at the
selfish fears of property-owners who see nothing
but ruin in sanitary improvement. Says “Tatt.” :
“If the work costs us 10 per cent, it will add 25
per cent, to the value of our property. That has
been my experience in Sydney, and it will be so
here.” Apropos, when Ben Tillett told Hobart
aldermen something of. municipal progress in
London, and urged that it might pay Hobart to
raise its rate to London figures (3s. 4d. to 9s. Bd.),
the City Fathers were so flabbergasted at the
proposal that only a hasty handing round of the
snuff-box saved several apoplectic fits.
Revised apothegm : The battle of Tugela
was lost on the ping-pong tables of Sandhurst.
THE SEARCH FOR THE CAPITAL.
One of the-drollest features of the Hall
divorce case (Adelaide) was the evidence of Law-
rence, the right-thinking gardener to the Hall
establishment. When Mrs. Hall asked Lawrence
whether he, like the other servants, was prepared
to accuse her of giddiness with the gentle shepherd,
he told her that he himself had seen her meet the
good man in the evening and thought it a very
serious thing—in fact, “second only to murder.”
Then Mrs. Hall asked Lawrence if he wanted to
make a scandal in the church, and the right-
thinking gardener replied with a solemn question—
“ Did she think Wilson (the shepherd) was a man
to get up in his church and preach about
the immortality of man and then go there
and act in that way.” It is a remarkable
fact that a gardener, or anybody else, can attend
church for half a century without discovering that
the Holy Scriptures testify to the immorality
rather than the “tality ” of man, and the giddiest
parson is the most naturally sympathetic ex-
pounder of their terewths. For instance, what
was there in the alleged canoodleism of shepherd
Wilson to disqualify him for notifying the
brethren that Solomon had 500 wives and 1000
concubines? Strict “propriety” of life, as the
term is understood nowadays, seems altogether
ridiculous in a man who professes reverence for
the prophets of old.
Bailes, M.L.A., has a Bill in hand to
amend the Vic. Wills Act in such a manner as
to guarantee a share of a dead man’s estate
to his widow. Bailes proposes, however,
that the widow is to have no share if,
during 12 months previous to the demise,
she has been guilty of conduct that would
have entitled her husband to a divorce.
This clause points out the method of
attack for those who may desire to rob
the widow of her mite.
♦ * •
From S.M. Herald report of
N.S. W. Highland Society’s ball:
Many of the gentlemen wore Highland cos-
tumes; members of the committee were
made conspicuous by national badges,
whilst round the balconies at short
intervals were such names as Sterling,
Dundee, Berwick, Ayr, and a host of
others dear to Scottish hearts.
“ Stirling” (with an ‘e’), the
bawbees, ye ken. “Dear to
Scottish hearts ” is distinctly
good.
A man was assaulted at a Dubbo church
by an irate R.C. worshipper for keeping his
head covered during service. Had it been a
synagogue he might have been punched by some
Hebrew Mendoza if he had kept his head un-
covered. In a Mahomedan mosque trouble would
ensue if he kept his boots on. Divine fashions
seem to vary like human ones, and all depends on
the peculiar taste of the presiding deity.
* * * *
“ A.C.H.” : Re a recent B. par advocating
the substitution of male for female domestic labor:
After having tried a succession of haughty, in-
different, lazy and dirty “generals,” I obtained
the services of a lad of 18 as a substitute for Mary
Jane, and up to date am perfectly satisfied with
the change. After a few lessons the boy learned
to scrub and wash with surprising cleanliness,
putting more “elbow grease’’into the performance
than any of my other helps. Of course it seems a
bit queer at first to dispense with the familiar
draggle-tail, but one very soon gets used to it,
and the boy does as he is told—a very refreshing
change after the usual kitchen lady’s “sass.” In
his spare moments he has no objection to digging
or wood chopping—occupations that Mary Jane
would scorn.
* • * *
There was a rather droll correspondence
in the Argus last week. One venerable gentleman
writes about the impudence of girls. Another
venerable rushes to the defence. Here’s his gist:
“ You old stupid ! Seeing your white hairs, the
girls only treat you as an old woman. They ain’t
afraid of you. Ask the young chaps ? They find
the girls more modest and retiring than ever.
That’s woman’s proper game.”
* * * •
Chief Secretary Jenkins (S.A.) states that
the reason why suspected lepers among the
Alligator River blacks are not placed in the
lazaret near Port Darwin is that the last two
jnmates committed suicide. A cheerful place !
William M'Culloch, the hideously “ loyal ”
Victorian who managed to get away to the
Coronation on a Govt, mission of some sort or
other, and was duly enrolled in the ignoble army
of C.M.G’s , is now apologising for having
accepted the poor little bauble. He explains to
the effect that it was thrust upon him when he
wasn't looking. Also, the aged Jingo denies that
he wanted a handle in front of his name rather
than three letters after it, and here M'Culloch
claims the benefit of the doubt on the ground that
he is a widower. Inasmuch as perhaps 50 per
cent, of the Australian “.knights” have taken up
the rather expensive bauble to oblige their Lady,
it may be that M'Culloch didn’t seek the “honor”
which wasn’t offered to him. Nevertheless, it is
clear that the man who became a C.M.G.
“against his wish” would have suffered the in-
fliction of the extra K. with equal unwillingness,
and have even borne the anguish of being made a
dook for the Empire’s sake. What The Bulletin
really admires in Mac. is his artless candour con-
cerning his food-carrying capacity. He wrote
from London the other week: “It is nothing
uncommon to have two banquets and two ‘at-
homes ’in the one evening. We can manage the
two at-homes, but, alas ! only one dinner in one
day.” Alas, indeed !
At a Vic. up-country town, the other day,
the hearing of a charge was interrupted by one of
the honorary magistrates, who remarked :
We believe the man committed the offence and is guilty,
and no matter what evidence you produce, we have de-
cided to commit him for trial.
Which just about shows the standard of intelli-
gence and of justice among the unpaid magistracy.
» » * »
The decision of N.S.W. Full Court, in the
Count de Rossi application the other day,
establishes that the Statute of Limitations not
only applies between subject and subject, but also
between the Government and the subject. The
Rossi bill of £lO,OOO ran back to 1858.
THE DEFAMATORY TRUTH.
No. 1 : “ You ought to he ducked in a ’orse-
trough, you hateful thi ng! ”
No. 2: “ Oh , you I you're ”
No. 1: “ Just don't you dare to say what I am
or I’ll taring yer neck.”
Pity the sorrow
Of William M'Culloch :
Fain would he borrow
A No. 2 stomach,
Then he’d gaily make light"
Of two banquets a night—
O, the joys of existence he’d double !
But he now has to choose
Which big dinner he’ll lose,
And he loses it — that is the trouble.
Dame Nature is cruel
To William M'Culloch,
She limits his fuel
To one little stomach.
Though the cards to invite
Offer two feeds per night
And to both he is solemnly beckoned,
Like a sinner accurst
He must stick to the first
And forego the delights of the second.


m
“esAtf emotes”
@>V RAINCOATS.
Are the Ideal Rubrics
for
A SET OF TEETH ONE GUINEA
Beautiful and Lifelike in Appearance and Guaranteed Perfect Pit. Absolutely Painless
Extractions and Stopping’s Guaranteed.
Special Attention Given to Regulating Children’s Teeth.
Mr, J. SPENCER NOLAN, R.P.S., Surgeon Deitijt, 43 Oxfo/d-st., Sydney
Do you like Coffee ?
Perfect, Pure,
Fragrant, Exhilarating Coffee
_ Then Try
T.a H. SOUTH’S
Cold
Medal
Coffee Essence
Australian Representatives:
SWIFT &, COMPANY,
7 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY.
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
P.D. Corsets }
Latest Specialty, Straight Front, Erect Form
{ P.D. Corsets
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Mr Dkar Arini. S ’' d “ ey ' A “ e “* 12 ‘ 1902 '
a , 0otoI “ ti ™ da y was as slow as
?. t conference or a snail symposium.
-the day of days was not the day,” says the poet
Sydney couldn’t re-light the dead ishes of its
enthusiasm even at the command of the State
Premier His Lx. Rawson held his Coronation
inner at Parliament Buildings instead of at
Bn^ br % ’ w aa T as , on ginally intended. Mr.
Rowe, Sir Harry s private sec., is making a slow
recovery from typhoid at Oran brook, and it was
doubtless, considered that the probable singing bv
two score gentlemen (after many toasts) of “We
recovery. 10016 W lnornill ° ” would not hasten his
o-n ad ,v° 11 r choice on Coronation morning of
I’xhfhiHm p e “ u^ ow of h r ” iafc magnitude at the
Lxhibitmn Building, or to Divine Service at two
cathedrals, a dozen churches and the Town Hall.
(T 1 !* 0 visifc a hen convention at which
none of the hens wear accordeon-pleated chiffon.
who , went t 0 church listened to
fW. a l te ” lat cl y praising Edward and the
Creator. At the Synagogue the Rabbi brushed
up his congregation’s history. Down through the
centuries lie raced from Ethelbert to Edward
giving a pat there and a cuff here, and a hard
smack elsewhere to the monarchs who indulged in
. ie ,, sport of drawing Jews’
, He ~h ad a specially kind word for
£ Nea > who, if all accounts are correct, has
been a good friend to the Hebrews. At
undenominational Town Hall service
the Moderator of the Presbyterian Assembly
preached to their Exes (the Rawsons,
perhaps, want to be unsectarian) and a packed
congregation with a Psalm of David for text. In
this psalm King David rejoices in the Lord’s
strength for giving him so much and for putting a
crown of pure gold on his head. The modesty of
these potentates, to be sure ! Moderator stuck to
the first three verses ; a later one says some-
t,ll’ris ; y.( out ‘fiery ovens ” for the people David
didn t like. In the aiternoon His Ex. and family
went to another service in honor of Mars. Some-
what to the surprise of the daily press His Ex.
reviewed the troops on foot. The Dolphin is shy
of making a figure of himself on horseback. Sir
Harry, it is understood, is looking forward with
considerable thrill to his Norfolk Island trip
three months hence. TJmn his foot will be on his
native deck.
Admiral and Lady Beaumont said their Coron-
ation prayers amongst the cannon on board the
flagship, and at 12.30 the warships started scaring
the seagulls with their firing. Warship illumina
tions were the only elegant thing in the way of
knocking luminous holes in the dusk ; the primal
lines of the vessels traced in unwinking lights
gave them a mysterious, remote effect.
Someone writes that a dress worn by Lady
Carmichael Anstruther (Miss Sylvia Darley,
whose father, we are all glad to hear, has just
arrived in London in good health) at the last
Oourt was a Worth creation of great beauty,
.raqum is the more famous dress-builder now
so returned earth-girdlers tell me. Any woman
who can afford Paquin clothes doesn’t say, “ I’ll
go and dress,” she says, “ I’ll put on my Paquin.”
A M. L. acquaintance of mine who went to the
Coronation that Failed got a Paquin visiting
gown, put it on, and drove to a beauty-parlor to
get advice how to make herself more worthy of
hei marvellous setting. She sat down in the first
chair she saw, and that happened to be freshly
enamelled in turquoise-blue. The beautv-parlor
people had to pay her a trifle over two-thirds of the
cost of that gown, which was £75.
Genius Jean Gerardy dropped £l5OO by his
Austialasian tour. Yet he carried out his pro-
grammes and filled his dates unfalteringly. Franz
vyilczek, the violinist now in Sydney, asserts that
Gerardy never gave his musical wealth so lavishly
to New-Yorkers, and that he never played better.
.Perhaps a case of “the anguish of the singer
making the sweetness of his strain. ” A section of
Sydney-siders say that Gerardy’s failure was due
to his intensely classical programmes and their
strictly German character. To fetch a Sydney
audience give them Italian music—especially
Verdi s. There s a rhythm about it that is gener-
ally described by classic musicians as being
things 1 Sydney public likes sweet
In the face of the unanimity with which the
public stayed away from his recitals, Jean could
not have been flattered by the praise of the Aus-
tralian musical critics. He never was really
exhilarated until a Melbourne critic pio-
nounced Concerto in A Minor
, n .® “ dl tch-water” and unworthy of the
cellist s programme. He returned from Bris-
bane last week On the 25th Franz Wilczek
goes, with all his music mute as far as Aus-
tralia is concerned, though he is delighted with
the country and the people (who have talked two-
tooth ewes at him until he doesn’t know if he
wears clothes or a fleece). When Prince Henry
brother to the Mailed Fist, visited America, it was
Wilczek who was selected to play for him at some
famous Vanderbilt party or other. He also
appeared at the first function at White House
during the M Kmley Presidency.
Mr. Harold Danniveg, who escorted a large
number of fish out here to stock the rivers, has
been interviewed. He left Plymouth with 750
plaice, 28 so.es, 4 turbot, 3 brill, 23 lobsters, and
he landed here with SGO plaice, 23 soles, and
I lobster, and that one lobster promptly died when
he discovered the sort of society he would have to
mix with. There was none of his own rank here
to marry, though it s true he might have formed a
mesalliance with a plain ordinary Murrumbidgee
lobster between winch and himself there was as
much difference m rank as between the Duke of
and j 1 r ! ornas Ll P ton - The lobster was
. cheered in his last illness by sympathetic
calls from Mr. Jack Want.
The ball to be held in Sidney University.
Jubilee week (end of Sept.), is to be a purely
invitation affair, and is already giving rise to much
heartburning. The Sports Union (which controls
the annual ball) intended to sell tickets for the
Sept, festivity as was done in connection with the
July ball, but is so flush just now with the
proceeds of football matches —held on the
University Oval, boat races, and the last ball,
that it has been decided to make the next ball a
very dignified and select affair. Garden parties,
dinners and picnics are other gaieties promised to
the festive grad, and a ponderous publication con-
taining articles by professors is another joy to
look forward to.
Pekin, according to the gospel of “San Toy”
and scenic painter Gordon, must have been an
inviting place to loot. Makes me wish I had been
amongst the allied troops. Such a color-scheme !
It enables you to endure the drivel of the dia-
logue. Silver dragons against rose and gold
pillars and hangings. Grave, long-legged birds,
scrolls, stars, gods, Chinese trees and flowers, and
clouds and waves. Gordon must be Chinese
Gordon. He must have soaked himself with
Pastern color-poetry and then set to work.
Ihe piece affects the audience as it might an
imaginative child and is aided by the grotesque
orchestral music—a section of the audience, I
ought to say, for one part of it (a big one, too) was
composed qjf youths who were just beginning to
feel the ends of their moustaches sprouting, and
kept its attention exclusively for the understand-
Jj'Rs “f the maidens. Rose Musgrove as the little
San Toy with dwarfed feet moves in a mysterious
half-shuffle, half-run ; the contracted, dainty steps
reminding you of arpeggio notes. A sparrow-like
lady s maid (Miss L. Digges), four handsome
English girls m rose-pink, cream, helio and green,
a pair of faultless-looking Foreign-Office-like
youths and an impossible Consul in a tight
Reckitts-blue suit, make up an English colony in
1 ekin that would cause an interruption of diplo-
matic relations between any two Powers.
No fashionable Englishwoman, says the re-
turned (but frustrated) Coronater, would use a
sponge or towel on her face. These articles are
destructive to the complexion. She washes her
face with medicated cotton-wool and dries it with
chiffon yes, real chiffon. The first wash is in
water permeated with cleansing powder; the
second water is made astringent; and the third is
a distilled and scented liquor. Then, if you make
up at all, you use Someone’s “perfectly pure”
powder, “absolutely harmless” rouge, and “inno-
cuous” lip-salve. If you have very valuable
jewellery, such as famous sapphires or rubies, you
should dye your hair to harmonise with them.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The Tennysons’Coronation Party, on Friday
night last, turned out to be a small and select
Commonwealth evening. Only the drawing-room
of Gov’ment House was used for the occasion, and
the Federal official world with its bediamonded
wife came along in uncrowded fashion, and was
leisurely presented by Better-Not Wally to the
Gov.-Gen. and his pleasant spouse. In the dis-
tance Lord Dicky made himself naice to people,
and pointed out the late Poet Laureate’s heir-
looms the manuscript of ‘Break, Break, Break,’
and the Galatian Cup which, after being used by
Irving and Ellen Terry for goodness knows how
many years, was subsequently presented to Alfred
the Laureate; also two paintings of the Gov.-
General s bairns, by Kate Greenaway.
The Windsor-uniformed politicians meandered
about uncomfortably. William Lyne presented a
most extraordinary pair of pink legs, showing
strange bulgings. Never were poetically-colored
stockings wedded to such strangely-fatted calves.
The short, stout, substantial members exposed by
Gov. Clarke cut the ground from under even the
muscle-proud Waxellency Madden. The most
stupendous, prodigiously tine, swashbuckling mili-
taire was the new State Commandant Gordon,
who swaggered about extensively, and aggressively
used a supercilious eye-glass. His idea of himself
is evidently colossal. He monopolised all the
fresh air in the reception room. Boss Hutton
wore his furrows and row of medals (to say
nothing of other things) with a comparatively
modest air.
‘ wasn’t it ? One of the Federal Ministers
at the Tennyson’s party had a hole in the back of
his white stocking. Fortunately white underwear
covered up the otherwise nude patch. And he
has a wife to look after him too.
Minister of Customs Kingston had drawn his
silk stockings up over his Jaegers—no, not Jaegers,
home - knitted pink - woollens, I fancy, from the
rosy color that blushed through.
“ The Tennysons made themselves very agree-
able. His Ex. s great bald pate shone with a
benignant light on the company—the bumps of
amiability, discretion and circumspection being
quite conspicuous to the discerning eye. He
seems anxious to do his duty, looks keenly at his
guests and talks seriously—that is, practically.
His consort is sweet. She shimmered in cloud-
grey satin, encrusted with gold and silver em-
broidery. Coronation-red warmed the northern
latitudes of the bodice. There were diamonds, of
course, and their most effective mounting ap-
peared m the Coronation loops forming
a background to the tiara. Lady Tenny-
son plays unconsciously with her fan.
Her face is full of expression, and her eyes kindle
with intelligence. She talks earnestly, sincerely
¥ou were disposed to like her by those stories of
her good work in South Australia ; but you must
like her when you meet her.
“ Most luminous among the dames that night
was Lady Hutton. She walked in beauty and
black satin, veiled and spangled. Great life in
that sparkling, splendidly-cut dress. Surmount-
mg her sunny head (quite a shower of summer
sunshine) was a great tiara against a cluster of
blue chiffon. The Madden family were immense.
Lady bil verlocks, despite her grand black velvet
with its Maltese draping, and blush-pink panels
and towering coiffure, and Miss Clarke, in her
pretty blue, were quickly lost to sight when the
Maddens appeared on parade—Guy in his
kilts (a living replica of the fat Joe Sedley
of Thackeray’s immortal gallery). Lady Madden,
juvenile—though in black—as her daughters, and
those two robust belles in wide, long-trained,
rustling, scintillating, gorgeous gowns. Miss
Ruby was in a sparkling white satin with panel
reefs of black cobwebs, and in heir highly-polished
hair were sprinkled dewdrops of chenille. Sister
Lesly, who becomes increasingly plump, was even
brighter in a.shimmering white frock, with hand-
painted exotics sprawling up the sides and about
the hips. Clumps of white lilac garnished the low-
cut bodice. The two sisters posed by the large fire-
place, the generous glare of it throwing their faces
into rosy relief. Gorgeous frocking characterised
the wife of Deputy-Postmaster Outtrim. She had a
Paris-branded creation, like a moonlight sonata—
luminous black and silver. Mrs. I. Isaacs tricked
forth her poetic arum-lily figure in a white silk,
over which forget-me-nots were spread in sweet
profusion.
“There wasn’t much sitting-space to spare on
the stands at Caulfield on Saturday, and the fight
in the members’ rooms for tea at 4 o’clock was
reminiscent of prosperous Cup days. The large
Coronation crowd was in exuberant spirits, many
actresses keeping things lively with their boister-
ous gaiety. A prominent horsey man—at present
a grass-widower—took three of the best known
Thespians in Melbourne under his wealthy wing.
The trio were discovered at one time practising
skirt-hitchings before the mirrors in the dressing-
room. Sassiety dames looked on in amazement,
but took the wrinkle back to the stand for dis-
cussion. And as the sportive trio flaunted on the
terrace afterwards, the world of fashion reckoned
the rehearsal of train manipulation was worth the
trouble, since no under-skirts and ankles
were shown to such cunning advantage by
any other flutterers in the swagger gathering.
The Tennysons were present in their royal blue
and gold enclosure. Lady Tennyson is no frocker.
Never did a more homely or kindlier-faced dame
face an aggressive world of watchers from vice-
regal quarters. His Ex. fixed the crowd with his
monocle, and studied their faces with a careful
air. Smart people rather squirm under the focus
of that highly-polished eye-glass. It drops from
its holding very abruptly, the scrutiny ended, and
dangles, as a reserve force, over the chest.
“The Gov. Clarkes gushed and beamed. The
two Y.R. box parties did not mingle much. The
Maddens, in subdued mourning garb, took a lease
of the most prominent Terrace tiles for the day.
They have wonderful standing power. Miss Mil-
licent Fairbarn was the fairest figure of the day.
She wore all cream, the daintiest of Russian cut
costumes, with sky blue tints in an expensive lace
collar. There was blue, too, in her rustic hat.
The most advanced millinery treasure of the day
was trotted out by Mrs. C. Wallace (one of the
ever contesting clan). This was a novelty in grass
lawn toques with forget-me-nots and small rose-
bud borders. It was more talked about than
even many of the swagger under-skirts. A lusty
comedienne carried off the honors for loud effects
by an eye-splitting, blue-bag costume, which was
hitched yards above a sunflower petticoat.
“By the way, dress criticism now, when men
are about, doesn’t draw the tine at the silk petti-
coat. It will be interesting to note if further of
the mysteries are to be topics of man-and-woman
conversation.
“Treasurer Shiels, thin, cheerful, flicking a lean
leg with a riding-crop, caused the one Tennyson
laugh of the day. The Gov.-Gen mistook the
man of figures for somebody else ; then Wally
dropped a word in the Excellency’s ear, explana-
tions followed and there were roars of laughter.
The Gov.-Gen. is another man when he gives
himself up to mirth. He looked—for the moment
—jolly. But the impression was quickly effaced,
and the impassive mask veiled the big, pale face
again. A curious feature of the Tennyson turn-
out is the big-crowned silk hat, the rim of which
nearly smothers the ears and covers the back hair ;
and His Ex. has only that back-patch on his noble
pate.
“"Two Western dames illuminated the d.c. of
the Princess on Wednesday night with their
rivalry in diamonds. Mrs. Everard Browne beat
Mrs. “Pursey” Chirnside by a neck. In both
cases gems flashed on every reasonably available
inch of space. But a colossal collar gave the
race to Mrs. Everard. Both the dames wore
white, with sobering jet ornamentations to tone
down the blazing riot of their gems. Mrs. Browne
sported the new half-sleeves of chiffon that fall
out under the elbow, balloonwise, and are caught
in with a jewelled band at the wrist. All the
front part of the arm is thus displayed, but not
the back. Women with knobby elbows will be
glad of the innovation.
No bugle-blast, and no thunder of carriage-
wheels, burst on the visitor’s ear, this year, at
Fmdon Harriers’ race meeting. Wednesday was
a dampish day, and an aesthetic dread of blue
noses may have prevented the attendance of the
mo3t swagger. The best turn-out was one of all
black—it would have been deadly but for a little
gold, quietly, almost apologetically, introduced
into the waist-belt. This was worn by Mrs.
Stewart Maearthur. A big black ruffle,’
an over - weighted black canoe-hat, black
brolly, and black gloves were of the most
approved order, but rather too mournful.
Mrs. Lawson wore a short black skirt, a very long
and large black coat, with tremendous revers and
collar of the Jack Tar order, blue and black stripe.
A big, pouched front supplied more blueness. An
immense saucer hat in vivid sky-blue tones, curled
up from the wearer’s dark head in the most
sudden and disconcerting manner. This scribe
cannot remember any bolder bid for dress honors
at any outing for a number of years.
“ Capt. Vallange—the Waxellency’s son-in-law
—has dropped his genial tone since secretarying
Gov. Clarke, and now plays the austere and un-
approachable. He would emulate Wally—if he
could. As he can’t he merely tends to be dis-
agreeable.
The mistress of ‘ Rippon Lea ’ is forward with
a series of musical parties, one for each month till
December. The tap of hospitality is turned on at
the bargoods’ all the year round. The practical
hostess enjoins silence during musical numbers.
The penalty for infringement is ultimate banish-
ment from her hearth.
“As in Harborville, the outcry against ‘mixed
marriages’ by the Melb. R.C. clergy is strong.
Parish priests implore the swells of their flocks to
keep their daughters for the Catholic young men of
the district. But ambitious mothers don’t enthuse,
it is a well-known fact that Society circles boast a
plenitude of R.C. girls and suffer a sad lack of
corresponding R.C. males. Michael has a lot less
mil about him that Kathleen. It is only in the
humblest ranks that the good R.C. eligible man
abounds; in other walks it is generally a choice
between a toney Protestant and a not-so-toney
R.C. And, as up to 70 years of age, this world is
of a lot more importance to most of us than the
possible next, the Protestant boy carries off the
nice R.C. girl nearly every time. This is the
sharpest thorn in the side of Archbishop Carr.
7< £,. e ? as got no daughters to be
established,” and so can’t look at the matter in
a mother’s light.
The chiffon world revelled in first gloatings
Tt/T 6 ™ shows last week. See the eagle-eyed
Melbourne female of fashion as she swoops down
on a Spring Show ! How she fastens on a cravat,
a toque, a ruffle —prices it, examines it, com-
pares it, and finally drops it with a snap-shot
of its features tucked away in the mental
dark-room to be developed and produced for
the home sewing-circle later on ! Sometimes
she actually makes a purchase snapping
an imported novelty, and hastily negotiating for a
few alterations (thrown in for the original price).
And how they hustle ! Elbows are worked like
oar-blades to make a passage through the crowd.
Row and then there are recriminations. Again,
friends find themselves at hostile oar-practice, face
each other suddenly, apologise, laugh, and adjourn
for tea. There is nothing on earth, save a baby-
competition, that brings out the fighting instincts
of the smart woman like a battle at a Spring
Show.
“A Florence Nightingale on the staff of a
popular private hospital received instant dismissal
a week or two ago on being discovered, with skirts
hoisted, and a feather-brush in her nob, singing
‘ She’s a lady bred and born,’ a la May Beatty,
for the sole delight and entertainment of a male
patient. Some peeping jade informed on her, and
the matron, bristling with indignation, arrived on
the scene to demand an explanation. The ama-
teur comedienne was permitted merely time for
excusing herself on the grounds of a Mark Tapley
spirit of encouragement and cheerfulness, exer-
cised on behalf of a depressed patient—then sack.
“ It is said that a lady who was somewhat con-
cerned in the starting of the Melb. Women
Writers’ Club (where men are occasonally wel-
comed) was at one time a partner in a matrimonial
agency.
‘‘The Police Carnival (August 9), in aid of the
unemployed, drew a huge crowd. The sham
battle between Britishers and Druids delighted
the youngsters, especially when Australian scouts
galloped in to announce a ‘Surprise.’ Among the
‘wounded’ carried in was a particularly podgy
Highlander, who gave three comrades all they
could do to tote him along. Inmates of the
reserved seats, judging from firelit peeps of the
fat hero’s build and sleek hair, set him down as
Lieut. Gpy Madden.
“ An ex-mummer, who is in rather a delicate
state of health at present, attends the theatres and
does her shopping in company with a Florence
Nightingale, who abandons uniform for the nonce.
Melbourne knows of a Western squatter’s dame
who did not bother to make this fine distinction
when she was on the same sick-list. She trotted
the nurse about in uniform, and was the joke of all
shopland.
“The new Carmenita of ‘The Runaway Girl’
(Rose Hamilton) has a raucous voice, wide teeth,
and an air of good-humored confidence that carries
her over all difficulties. She makes up in vigor
and slap-dash for the sauce piquante of her pre-
decessor.
“Just now, when flowers are scarce, it’s worth
noting that even Govt. House falls back on hardy
blossoms, such as anyone can have who gardens at
all. T’other night, tall arum-lilies gave height to the
mantel-shelf corners, squatter posies of lauresti-
nus stood near the middle, flanking small vases of
jonquils. Tiny clusters of violets were scattered
about the tables, and some slim scented gums,
growing in big pots, diffused a whiff from the bush
through the crowd.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
Poetry and prose of the A.W.U. Shearers’
Manifesto:—
The pastoralists’ flocks, like the Sybil’s pages, increase
in value as they lessen in numbers. And a 25 per cent,
rise in wool goes to his credit (not yours) on top of it all.
“This is a Government Without Knees,”
says Vic. Railways Minister Bent, “ and it is not
going to bend to the protests of the men in the
slightest.” A Government Without Knees—
naturally. To supply a Bent Government with
anything to pray upon would be sheer blasphemy.
But it has a back to bend and a good large bingey
to lie flat upon, and it may want them both before
long.
*
A graceful form and well moulded bust
are essential to perfect beauty. Lacte, the
wonderful “ Skin Food ” is nature’s remedy for
giving back those essentials when lost through
sickness or action of time, and for supplying them
when constitutionally deficient. It fills all hollows,
develops and gives a charming roundness to neck
and arms. Price 7s. 6d. per jar, post Bs. 3d.
Westall Guest, Toilet Specialist to the Gov.-
General, 229 Bourke-street, Melbourne.


CITIZENS’ LIFE assurance co., Ltd.
Has Money to Lend
on security of Freehold City or Suburban
Properties, Good Dairy Farms, Agricultural
and Grazing Lands (Freehold or C.P. & C.L.)
or Government Stock of any of the Australian States or New Zealand,
At the Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Loans may be arranged for a fixed term or repayable by instalments,
without notice or payment of any fine.
WHISKY
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Melbourne’s three C.E. bishops —Perry,
Moorhouse, and Goe resigned that see and
returned to their native England. Yet Melbourne
seems to be about to try a fourth from the same
stock. •
Thomas Reilly, who died at Chippendale,
Sydney, last week, aged 92, was 24 years orderly-
sergeant at N.S.W. Government House. He
witnessed the coming and going of over a dozen
Governors.
People are much disappointed at not being
able to find in the Watchman any intimation as
to what part of the vineyard the Rev. Tremayne
Dunstan (ex-associate-editor of that paper) is now
laboring in.
An official observes that the only persons
found using works on political economy in N.S.W.
Parliamentary library are Labor members. The
youngest Tory, it seems, enters the House with
his political education complete.
Obit., Presbyterian Pastor M‘Gregor, of
Carlton. Obstinate bachelor, well up in years,
with a good benefice. The Kurruk thought him
indecorous. However, he and Father Kelly, the
best of friends, looked after the local poor.
Solomon Wiseman, who died at Wingen,
N.S.W’., and left £33,000 to his family, was one of
the original Broken Hill fourteen. After his
lucky hit on the Barrier he lost heavily in Queens-
land mining specs, and on pastoral properties.
Dr. Samuel Thornton, for years Bishop of
Ballarat, is a relative of Lord Kitchener on the
side of his mother, whose maiden name was
Kitchener. Bishop Thornton’s great grand-
mother was also the great-grandmother of Lord
Kitchener,
When Premier See gave N.S.W. Assembly
the news of the colliery disaster an old Kembla
coal-miner was presiding—J. H. Cann, Chairman
of Committees. Cann went to work at Kembla
when he came to Australia, and remained there
till he went to the Barrier in ’BB.
Ex-Mayor Ware, of Adelaide, who caused
so much talk by kissing the Duke of York’s hand
in Melbourne last year, and who has been lame for
years, has had the main sinew of one leg operated
upon in London, with the result that a missing
inch seems to be restored to its length.
Any chance of Sir William Gordon Cum-
ming, Bart., of Altyre, who fell out of society
through Tranby Croft baccarat scandal, being
restored to Court favor now that his old pal, King
Ned, is on top ? Sir Gordon Cumming and his
wife (an American heiress) have lived very quietly
ever since at the Gordon Cumming family estate,
near Forres, Morayshire, Scotland. He breeds
cattle, and she takes a keen personal interest in
all local philanthropic work.
AT THE SWEARING-IN
CEREMONY.
HEAVY PARTY : "What are you out for to-day,
Johnny? Are you one of the guard of
honor?”
IT: “Oh, we're goin' to keep the crowd off.”
It will be news to the admirers of the late
Thomas Carlyle to hear that that dyspeptic
philosopher was a graduate of the University of
St. Andrews. Hitherto Edinburgh has had the
credit of being his “ Alma Mater.” John Norton
has, however, recently put the world right on this
point.
Senator Simon Fraser (no relation to
Senator “Phraser” Symon) was 67 on Thursday
of this week (Aug. 21). Defence Minister John
Forrest was 55, and ex-Chief Secretary Moore
(Tas.)7s, on Friday; while Purves, K.C., is 59
to-day (Saturday), which is also Dr. Cockburn’s
birthday. Graham Berry will complete his 80th
year next Thursday (Aug. 28).
Despite the good example set by Gov.
Chermside and Auditor-General King, various Q.
high officials exempted from Philp’s retrenchment
scheme continue to hang on to their full salaries.
One at least should consider the position, but he
isn’t built that way. And, besides, look at the
traditions of the profession !
The movement to bring John Burns to
Australia on a lecturing tour originated with the
Freetraders in the Federal Labor party ; but the
Protectionists acquiesced, believing that John
would be prudent enough to keep out of the
fight. The matter of inviting him has been sent
on to the various trade societies.
So far as the Eastern States are concerned
“ Another injustice to Ireland ” is a meaningless
cry. In the Senate O’Connor is king-pin ; in
N.S.W. Owe’Sullivan is boss, with Dan O’Connor
as Court jester ; while in Q. the Leahy family,
John, Patrick, and Michael, are not allowing their
lights to shine under any bushels.
It is lucky (writes a correspondent) for the
much-frightened crew connected with the slaying
of poor chair-mender Heaps that his father is dead.
The ancient was a real old gipsy, with whom
revenge was a pride ; he would not have thought
much of shooting some of his son’s assailants off-
hand without asking them to surrender.
Rather a neat thing from London Daily
Chronicle
Mr. Barton belongs to the school of Lord Salisbury
rather than to that of Mr. Chamberlain. The latter
statesman need not feel that he is left out in the cold,
for Mr. Seddon, on the other hand, belongs rather to the
Chamberlain school; unless, indeed, we ought rather to
say that Mr. Chamberlain is a follower who is outrun by
Mr. Seddon.
It is only on the stage that every police-
man’s name is Murphy. Of the 2172 members of
the force in N.S.W. on December 31, but 351 were
born in Ireland ; of the rest, 1314 were native-born
—which, true, might leave their name Murphy
after all. There were 320 from England, and 157
from Scotland (more than half of these latter, by
the way, in the city).
Mrs. Barrington, who died the other day
at Woollahra (Sydney), claimed to be a blood
relative of Captain Cook, and the claim was so
well supported that the old lady received a special
invitation from N.S.W. Government to be present
at the last Botany Bay Kurnell circus festival
celebrating the glory of Dacey and the landing of
the British navigator.
J. A. Andrews, who now edits Melbourne
Tocsin, is seriously ill, having broken a blood-
vessel. Andrews, when in Sydney, suffered from
a lung trouble, which he kept under with fresh
air, creosote, and a vagabond life. Steady work
in editorial harness seems to have had a bad effect
on one of the ablest and most sincere of Aus-
tralia’s Labor advocates.
The trouble about Senate-President Chaf-
fey Baker’s wig has been happily settled. The
portrait was wanted to hang in S.A. Leg. Council
chamber (Baker being a past President of that
body). But the artist included the wig of a
Senate-President, and the local legislators insisted
on having their Baker partly bald, as they knew
him in the flesh, So the ex-President has offered
to take over the painting, and to present the
Council with another, which shall be all Baker
and no wig.
The late veteran William Hanson, first
N.S.W. State printer under Responsible Govt.,
who died recently, was easily seen
any time through the last ten years
in his cottage at Mosman, almost
blind but clear-headed to the
last. He had a mania for telling
old yarns, which did not usually
tend to put haloes round the
heads of the giants we have
known. The Govt, printing-
office, when he took it over,
was a typical old-Sydney
institution. Plenty of busi-
ness in it but no work done.
All that was contracted for
out-side, and the contracts
were arranged without over-
much publicity. Hanson, who
had not served h is time i n N. S. W.,
went to straighten things in a
hurry. His Minister didn’t know
what to say, but thought he had
better consult a very godly gen-
tleman out of politics, but high
up in the printing business. “I
met him,” said the new man,
“in the hall brushing his hat.
He didn’t ask me to sit down, but
after listening a bit opened out.
What had I got to do with the way
the business of the colony was carried
on? What did I know? Whom was
I seeking to traduce? What was my
little game? Wouldn’t it become me
better to keep in my own office and
attend to my own affairs ? I left him
in a dazed sort of condition. For he
was a very big man, upright, a pillar of
the church, and that business was little
better than burglary. It was a year or two
before I found out that he was behind every man
who had a finger in it.”
Ketchener is a worthy emulator of Soult.
Bonaparte denuded Italy of its finest pictures for
the Louvre. Soult went further and appropriated
the Spanish pictures, masterpieces by Velasquez,
Murillo, and so on, for himself. Bonaparte’s
plunder was disgorged, Soult’s never. A number
of his pictures are in English galleries. Thus
Ketchener with the statues.
Vic. Chief-Justice Madden has just had
something severe to say of the “ monstrous state
of affairs ” arising from frequent disagreements of
juries. And how about the frequent disagreements
of judges and the costly litigation caused thereby ?
Imagine the blessed state of the community if
every judicial decision could be accepted as final
and not liable to being upset by some other
bench !
A SILLY THING TO DO.
HER: “ If I had refused to marry you , I
suppose you would have done something
foolish? ”
H IM: “ Most likely; probably married some-
body else.”
Re that statue to Big Clarke 11., the
name, it seems, is to appear “ Sir W. J. Clarke,
Bart., L.L.D.,” and someone has written to the
Argus to avert the calamity of the stop being
placed between the two “ L.’s.” The writer ex-
plains that the two “L’s” signify the plural
“tense” (!) of the word “law.” But why not
“Sir W. J. Clarke, Bart., L.S.D.”?
Maoriland Premier Seddon’s really greatest
performance in England was when he took up his
place in front of the troops when the Horse
Guards paraded recently before the Queen, and
led the cheerinrr, urging the assembled multitude
every now and then, with a loud voice and a
whirling bellt.opper, to hooray for all they were
worth. That big hot figure and flushed counte-
nance and . wildly revolving hat will be long
remembered.
Robert Lucas Tooth, of London, has, it is
cabled, given a second donation of £lO,OOO to the
Royal Hospital. He was for a time M.L.A. for
South Sydney, and was beaten for East Sydney
by Dr. Ren wick. Robert Lucas, who draws tens
of thousands a year out of Sydney’s big beer
brewery alone, is thoroughly English now and
takes little interest in this beastly country. A 25
per cent, tax on absentee incomes may one day
remind him of his old home.
Now announced, even in the Jingo press,
that “the inhabitants of Lismore (N.S.W.)
intend to recognise the many public services of
Dr. Bernstein. At a meeting held a substantial
sum was subscribed towards the object.” This
was the outspoken, benevolent old man whom the
Jingoes wanted to cashier from his position, hunt
off the bench, and hound out of the country as a
“pro-Boer.” But we are all pro-Boers now—the
only distinction being that erstwhile pro-Gores
are illogically credulous pro-Boers.
Deceased Vic. barrister Topp was one of
three brothers, all of whom have earned for
themselves good positions in Melbourne. _ One,
C. A. Topp, is now Public Service Commissioner,
and should have many years’ work ahead of him
yet. The other is assistant sub-editor of Melb.
Argus, and the best and most reliable cable-
faker in all Australia. Both of these are thin,
nervous men, while the equity lawyer mopped up
the fat of the family, and was at the time of his
death the only double-chinned man at the Vic.
bar.
Died at Melbourne, last week, John
Conway Burke, who claimed to have carried the
first mails between Melbourne and Sydney. The
N.S.W. Govt, contracted with Messrs. Hawdon
and Hepburn, of Melbourne, to run a fortnightly
pony-express between the two towns, starting on
Ist Jan., 1839. Hawdon appointed his stockman,
John Burke, to carry the mail-bag out and home
again, the journey being made from station to
station, with one long stretch—about 200 miles—
of unsettled country. Bourke was 24 when he
took up the healthy job, and he died at 87, full of
reminiscences.
The death of Dr. Milford, of Sydney, re-
calls the early days of N.S.W. when judgeships
and other high offices were in the gift of English
politicians. The doctor’s father was presented by
the English Attorney-General with the position
of N.S.W. Master-in-Equity, in 1843, and from
that till 1865 he administered justice in Queens-
land and N.S.W. It must be said of Justice Mil-
ford, what cannot be said of all the Judges sent
from England “ with a character,” that he was a
man of refinement and equable temper. He re-
ceived a public funeral —a very rare tribute to a
N.S.W. Judge.
King Ned issued a Coronation message to
his subjects, and the Jingo papers were very care-
ful to point out that it
constituted an autograph letter, being a personal spon-
taneous expression of his feelings entirely conceived and
written by King Edward.
This impressive fact was cabled to Australia.
The Bulletin hasn’t the grave doubt on the
point which this over-earnest assurance presumes
will exist in most minds. Why should King Ned
be deemed so utterly stupid as to be incapable of
writing on his own three sentences of very com-
monplace English ?
Apropos the rumor that King Ned and
Prime Minister Salisbury had a serious difference
over H.M.’s suggestion that Ernest Cassel should
be promoted to the peerage. It is a fairly old
story that Cassel “ funded ” the royal debts. It
was, the story runs, when Hirsch died with a
third of a million of the Hard-up’s acceptances
under his pillow that the Hard-up realised that it
wasn’t safe to go on like that. So Cassel, not then
even knighted,- offered to put things on a business
basis —in plain English, to arrange for time-pay-
ment. Where it was not advisable to suggest
terms Cassel himself advanced the money and took
over the debt. Altogether, if the story is as told,
it was a business that did credit both to the latter-
day Ned and his liquidator, who has since been
made, a Privy Councillor.
Christopher Mudd, the
travelled botanist and amus-
ing fellow who yarns about
his long-ago trip to India with
the Prince of Wales’
party, was onetime a
member of the Sal-
vation Army in Mel-
bourne. But he’s a
botanist at heart,
and a Boer in his dis-
position to get away
from the busy haunts
of man. Full of re-
source, but not a
business man. A
popular “hair-re-
storer ” is sold as
the herbal pre-
scription of Prof.
Mudd, but he
doesn’t run the
oily lotion on the
market. Another
fellow makes it up and
sells it. The restless Mudds of
this world can only run themselves.
They are one-man shows.
The wife of an old-time Victorian Go-
vernor was a kleptomaniac. She never went
shopping alone, and on her return to Govt. House
from one of these expeditions her companion
always sent back to the drapers the things she
had secreted under her cloak. The tradesmen
were aware of Her Ex.’s peculiarity, and also
knew that they would lose nothing by it.
Dr. Torrey, ’Murkan evangelist, says he
is 46 years old, and has been “saved” for 29
years, prior to which he was the champion poker-
player, waltzer, and sinner-in-general of Geneva
city, U. S. A. Also, that he ran through two for-
tunes. This gives him 17 years in which to have
“ seen life,” and, unless he began as an infant
phenomenon, he could hardly have made the pace
red-hot until he was between 15 and 16, so the
few years at his disposal ere his conversion must
have been travelled at hell-for-leather pace. In
appearance, by the way, Torrey is nearer 60 than
46. The effect, perhaps, of late piety.
George Raynor’s pulpit manners are being
first tasted by Pitt-st. (Sydney), Congregational
flock, whose pastor lately left rather unexpectedly
the other day. Mr. Raynor went to Adelaide
from a Sydney suburb eight years ago, and at the
fashionable Glenelg church has built up a reputa-
tion as S. A.’s most brilliant preacher. Formerly
he spoke far too rapidly ; but he has broken him-
self of that. A little middle-aged bundle of
nerves, and marvellously fluent, he doesn’t trust
himself to speak without first committing every
word to paper, and even that is re-written once at
least.
Arthur Lynch, now committed for trial on
a charge of treason, in England, is an M.A. and
C.E. of Melb. University. He was first a mathe-
matical master, then on the staff of the Vic.
railways. He left Victoria to study in Berlin and
Paris. After dabbling in London journalism he
went to S’Africa as war correspondent for a Paris
paper; fought (it is alleged) with the Boers
against England; and on the strength of that
report, was judged to be “the man for Galway”
at last bye-election and was returned to the House
of Commons in his absence. Choice fell on him
because there was a legal difficulty in nominating
President Kruger. The Galway electors wished
to show their sympathy with the Boers.
The Pilot, the organ of the Pitt-st. Con-
gregational Church (Sydney) records that last
Sunday evening
The attendance was not as large as „e have been
accustomed to, but those who were there were amply
repaid for coming. Miss Ituby Bowring sang very sweetly
a solo, a song of comforti “Oh, Dry Those Tears.”
Which seems to have some reference, to a congre-
gation sorrowing for its Tremayne Dunstan. But
why all this irritating mystery? Has Mr.
Dunstan gone for good, or is he only taking a
holiday, so that he may get renewed strength for
a wrestle with the Devil ? If he has gone, why
has he gone? and why did he go off with the
suddenness of a colliery explosion ? We’ve spent
twopence on numbers of the Pitt-st. Congrega-
tion Church paper without getting any news of its
beloved pastor. Why this frozen silence ?
Explorer Gregory, hale and still active,
had a birthday (the 83rd) on August Ist. Of the
original band three survive, one in England, and
two, Gregory and Melvin, in Brisbane. At a
meeting of the Geographical Society in Brisbane,
on his birthnight, he gave an instructive resume of
his expeditions and early life. Gregory’s know-
ledge of mathematics enabled him to take stellar
observations instead of delaying his band every
day, and his instruments, used 50 years ago, were
tested lately and found correct. G. R. Dibbs was
supercargo on the Monarch when Gregory and
co. sailed in her from the Brisbane River before
they started on their big trip across Australia.
Beyond a gold medal from the R.G.S. and a
beggarly C.M.G. no one in authority seems to
worry much about the man who crossed this
continent from West to East and made heroic
efforts to find lost Leichhardt.
“ Big ” Kelly, the giant who impersonates
the Terrible Turk in “ The Circus Girl” at Mel-
bourne Her Majesty’s, was, until lately, a member
of Vic. police force, and retired on a pension
through ill-health. Kelly, who stands 6ft. 7in.
high, and who has a chest measurement of nearly
sft., is a native of Bendigo district, and hid his
manly figure under a bushel as an obscure bobby,
until Bendigo Easter Fair of five years back
offered a prize for the handsomest man. He won
hands-down, being, unlike most giants, a well-
proportioned and symmetrical man. Another
Vic. immensity, the “Purnim Giant,” 7ft. high,
lies hopelessly ill of heart-disease. He came
before the public first about 12 years ago, when
his father was summoned for not sending him to
school. The boy, brought into court as an exhibit,
then stood 6ft. sin., and upset the dignity of the
Bench by sobbing bitterly during the proceed-
ings.
The recently-deceased Albert Read, attor-
ney, who died at 90, shared with-Frank Stephen,
Chief Justice Madden’s dad-in-law, the leadership
of Melbourne police court. They begun to haul
in cash with the sticking-up cases, between Mel-
bourne suburbs, in the early goldfields era. An
indignation meeting about these crimes'was held
in the city. Frank Stephen spoke, saying the
offences were greatly exaggerated, whereupon
somebody put in, “ Why, the money that’s robbed
from us goes into your pockets ! ” Read told the
present writer that the secret of his longevity was
getting up at daybreak every morning and work-
ing in the garden among his roses. Which was,
of course, a fallacy : he got up early because he
was a strong man and felt well. Though he lived
so long, and worked so tremendously hard up to
80, nobody can remember the time when he was
not afflicted with a kind of permanent palsy, a
perpetual tremble all over. He wrote with his
hiceupy left hand almost as badly as Justice
Molesworth.


M
WEAK-SI6NT€D READERS^-
X>F 0 unable to read small printed matter, or to see fine
»trl wv! g 0r ff wn J ing ' Wlth . comfort, whose distant vision is dull
and who suffer from persistent headaches or pains after close
application—you may rest assured that vou are suffering from
Agreinjr o r impaired Vision, and Need Glasses You
should visit us, and have your sight scientifically tested, and
tii COUNTRY RPfInPPQ v, 1 SUpphed Wlth Glasses adapted to your individual case.
• vo vs/, e o¥,r l r wn / ,,!ht “ d «—»•» ~
H. A. 3ARRACLOUGH, Consulting: Optician.
371 George St., Sydney,
And at 232 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, opposite A™ OftW
next door to the A.J.S. Bank.
King: and George Streets.
DAVID STOKER & SONS’
-BLACK, RED and BLUE
Registered
Trade
Mark.
110 OOilVl
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking or
The Perfect Sheep-Marker. SHEEP BRANDINC OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors. —ln the ease of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific value.
In such an appalling state are the tracks
leading out from Broken Hill, and so pinched are
many of the stations for feed and supplies, that
there are no less than 40 camel-teams at work out
there These teams run from 20 to 45 animals
and all are worked by Afghan-bossed Hindoos!
with a few mean Afghans. One or two Aus-
tralian firms have gone into the business, though
not with white labor; but by far the most of the
teams are still owned by Abdul Wade and other
Afghans. It’s a harvest for the bosses; but the
other poor wretches have only to trudge the faster
for their £2 or £3 monthly.
• * • •
“ T.N.” to The Bulletin :
Premier See says the losses in stock, etc., and the gene-
ral effects of this long drought, are not half as bad as
represented. Aren’t they ! Up this way (N.W. N.S.W.)
they are far worse—many sheepowners have lost half and
two-thirds of their stock during the past six months, and
some have a few hundreds yet to die out of several thou-
sandS; Many men are cutting their sheep’s throats and
skinning them. In some quarters, efforts are made to
conceal the losses, but shearing will tell the tale. Why
in the township, butchers have to get their meat from
a.vdney—an unheard-of state of affairs. Remember, this
is an Eastern and Central, as well as a Western Division
drought. Still, it is consolation to the producer to know
that there is yet money left in Sydney for illuminations
and junketings of all sorts.
• * • *
“Trotter”; On a large horse-breeding
station on the Macintyre (Q.) the equines are
dying in dozens daily. The country is perfectly
bare, without a sign of grass any where, and in a
month or so, unless rain comes, will be completely
denuded. But it’s the .same old tale. The squatter
trusts entirely to Providence. Here is a station
with a long river-frontage, and not a cultivation-
paddock. Nor is a stack of hay to be seen any-
where. “What’s wrong with irrigation!” An
adjoining station that has a splendid cultivation-
paddock, and several stacks of lucerne, has saved
hundreds of pounds and kept its horses alive
during these trying times. Fancy stations of 1000
square miles having to buy hay !
* • * •
“ Shaker ” writes from Ebagoola (N.Q.) :
“Longa’s” experience (B. 28/6/’O2) notwithstanding—
there are few well-made “ bucks” to be seen even on the
goldfields. Those niggers who lately carried a helpless
man ,J 0 miles through the bush to Ebagoola must have
been sturdy. But I was not writing of the blacks who
hang about the diggings, rather of those living in their
natural state in the unoccupied country in the north and
west of Oape York Peninsula, of whom there are even yet
a few thousands left. What is true of them now was
once true all over Queensland, but contact with whites
knocks blacks to bits in no time.
CHANGING THE SUBJECT.
MISSIONARY : “ What caused the death of my late brother !"
BLACK DISCIPLE : “ I can't see why, when you start on a spiritual
subject, you should turn so abruptly to a culinary one”
Victorian farmers find beetroot of value as
fodder for their stock. A Gippsland dairy-farmer
began feeding his cows at the end of March on the
roots, and after two months his milk-cheque rose
from about £7 to £lB 18s. 6d. a month.
* * • *
“Bobrid ” : Re drovers’ dogs (B. 5/7/’O2).
Knew an old drover at Wagga who regularly
every morning kicked his two dogs round the yard
“To keep them afeard of me,” he explained,
sos they’ll do just what I tell ’em.” By the
T ay i T em , ora , ( N - s -W.), t’other day, a man was
fined £5 for bashing his dog against the wall of a
pub.
* • • •
Bogan : A man who could use a whip,
and ride a horse, as well as talk, was telling us
here about a cutting-out trick. If a beast is like
to beat you,” said he, “ ride right across his stern
and grip his tail. A sharp jerk will bring him
over on his ribs. When he gets up you can drive
him like a worker.” The push was silent after.
Anyone know if it’s usual, or possible ?
‘Algol”: All very well for Clement Wragge
to blame the disturbances in the sun for Austra-
lia’s droughts. This year, while our drought has
been on, it has been raining in England like a
Parliamentary debate. Now, as the sun is
93,000,000 miles away, to him the earth is merely
a point, and surely he can’t differentiate between
England and Australia. Therefore, be wiser, O
Clement, and search nearer home. My own
theory is that sometimes it rains and sometimes it
don b and that when one “sometimes”is long,
there’s a flood ; when the other, tbere’s a drought,
ibis will “ hold water” anyhow.
* » • •
“Bobrid” writes :
Rabbits having gone up to 7d. per nair at Old June#,
every local cocky is humping a load of traps about his
paddock. Have often wondered why rabbits were not
breeding this season ; it appears the trappers keep bunny
on the move so constantly as to prevent breeding—or
else, dropping the young ones, the does have to bustle
on. I saw a paddock not trapped, it was literally alive with
kittens and “ runners.” Bunny has a great aversion to
a trap, and should a trap with a rabbit in it‘be left at a
warren not a rabbit will go near it for months. One local
squatter refuses to allow a trapper in his paddock ; his
theory is that inbreeding will eventually bring about a
deterioration in the rabbit, resulting in extermination.
It may—eventually, but we’ll never see it, anyway. As
the run is not wire-netted, the experiment is a rather
dangerous one for his neighbors. The fox is adapting
himself to circumstances about Junee district. One
chased, t’other day, climbed a tree 16ft. high, and disap.
peared down a spout ; was cut out, and the hollow was
found to be worn perfectly smooth from constant use.
A true bill 1 Junee whisky doesn’t run to foxes. ,
• • • •
“F.C.” : It is printed (B. 26/7/"02) -that
Earnscleugh (M.L.) station is paying better as a
rabbit-farm than ever it did as a sheep-run since
bunny came. This just bears out what I said in
Bulletin years ago (I don’t claim any special
kudos for it) that the only way to keep bunny
under control is to make him pay, and that the
money squandered in wire-netting, poisoning, and
digging-out is merely thrown away. Prices for
rabbits in England don’t seemed to have dropped
a farthing in the last 10 years, and that market
could consume 10 times as many as we send. Also
there are the Continental, American and S’African
markets. We don’t appreciate bunny because lie
is too plentiful, just as the G-ippslanders from
iraralgon, eastward and northward, scoff at hares
(which are as thick there as rabbits in N. Victoria)
and as the Californian settler turned up his nose
at salmon when his rivers were so thick with them
he could walk across on their backs. He made
them pay and now they are scarce—so with bunny.
• • * •
“ Merool ” : Is land so scarce in N.S.W.
as to necessitate travelling-stock routes being
reduced to mere lanes? Surely, Government
should exhaust the numberless timber reserves
without timber, and the water reserves without
water, which a,re fenced in and held by squatters,
before destroying the stock-routes !
“ Trotter,” con-
cerning some nigger
matters:—
Queensland Aborigines
Protection Act is a dead
letter. In N.Q. the nig.
is employed at all kinds
of work for a smoke of
•opium, a plug of bad
tobacco, and a few sweet
potatoes. On the Tully
River (Cardwell) one
man has a camp of be-
tween 30 and 40 blacks,
male and female, who
do all the field work and
are fed on potatoes and
boiled bananas. On the
Murray are two farms ;
one leased to a Chow,
and the other to a
Malay, and for both of
these aliens a crowd of
aborigines work for a
smoke of opium and the
ascrps they pick up. I
have seen the niggers
there mix the opium
charcoal with water
Jlnd drink it ! On one
northern river all the
work on a large coffee-
plantation is done by
aborigines, who work
naked, both male and
female. They get only
tucker and tobacco. In
Normanton all work is
done by the blacks, who
prowl about all day half-
naked and filthy. When
I was in Ebagoolah (Far
North), seven months
»go, I found scores of
male blacks suffering
from a certain disease
contracted from their
lubras ; some were in a
truly shocking state. A
doctor in Cooktown told
me he had never seen so
many incurable cases
before ; and at Towns-
ville it is the same. In
fact all down the coast
the niggers are shocking-
ly diseased ; and I have seen lubras and children in some of
?1 f 1 - P deC D rnposinf ’ r alive - lam glad that Dr.
concernln^ la th« T M B^ ULI ' ET uf of my fo ™er statements
/ th u Ma3 l town Macks has brought forward
me ‘ The “Wreck,” “Verax,”
an “ others endorse me in every particular exoent
about the fly-curse of Maytown, and lir. It.’s denial of its
there” 06 g ° OS toWards P rovin £ that he has never been
• .
M.L. Govt. Biologist Kirk throws some
ight on the sparrow-problem. He started with
11 pairs, and allowed one-third loss for destruction
by natural enemies, natural deaths, &c. In the
?u r !i year A he " £ alrs increased to 121 pairs; in
the second to 161,051 pairs ; and in the third year
to numbers fail us 1 Kirk also discovered that
ere the young birds are ready to fly, the mother
sparrow lays more eggs in the nest, allowing the
youngsters to do the incubating until within five
days of the second batch’s hatching. In the crops
of sparrows sent to Kirk from all parts of the
country, and at all seasons of the year, only 34 per
cent, of the contents were insects—the rest beine
gram and seeds of different kinds.
NOT THAT SORT OF FOWL.
SWAGGIE (who has been given bread and told
that there is no meat on hand): “Never
mind, mum, cggs 'll do.”
MISSUS (astoundedly): “What! Travellers?
Eggs?"
SWAGGIE : “No, mum — ’ENE’ eggs!”
“ Alone ” : Re the discussion as to whether
trees grow upwards bodily, or from the top only.
I believe the text-books, as well as those who
champion either theory, are both right and wrong,
to a certain extent. I have scores of fruit trees,
the main forks of which seem not to have grown
upwards an inch, since the day they were grafted
on, 25 years ago ; but growing with them there
are hundreds of others that have carried their
main forks upwards from 1 to 3 feet in that time.
Then consider forest trees like the stringy-
bark or mountain ash, of Grippsland, with their
main forks one and two hundred feet up. How-
ever long it may have taken such a tree to grow,
the main fork has been carried up since it formed
near the ground. Then, again, the reproduction
of the wood cells by gemmation is all in favor of
the tree growing bodily every way.
* * * *
“Smilax”: In answer to “Hypo” (8.,
12/7/ 02), I think he is right m supposing that tree-
marks are not carried upwards with the tree’s
growth. For instance, in Richmond paddock
(Melb.), near the M.C.C. ground, is an old tree
which has a large, barkless space, wherefrom—
according to an inscription on the tree, “ before
the white man came”—the blacks cut away a
large sheet of bark. The patch extends now
three-parts round the trunk, and reaches to the
ground from about 15ft. up.
• * • a
It being announced in the cable news that
some representative Boers were to be sent to
Canada and Australia “to learn farming,” “one
who has lived among them ” wrote to Sydney
It might be as well to tell the Australians, at least, that
they could themselves very well take lessons from the so-
called ignorant Boers. The Boers are most thrifty and
self-reliant, and do not look for any outside help. ‘ They
irrigate their crops largely in dry weather. . . . They
utilise their fruit instead of allowing it to rot under the
trees, with the cry that it does not pay them to send it to
market. Soap is made from all the bones, scraps of fat,
and ashes, so nothing is wasted. Gandies, bacon, ham,
sausages, and biltong, of which we heard so much during
the war, are also produced. They grow their own vege-
tables, make their feather-beds from the goose-down
grown on the farm. In fact, the Boer farm is entirely
self-supporting. No such thing as tinned meat is even
known amongst them. Where there is pasturage for
cows all the butter is made lor tue nome use as well as
cheese. In the absence of grass goats are kept for the
sake of the milk. Their lesson here would be only to
learn how to waste all those things.
* * * *
While in 1881 the Maoriland native popu-
lation was estimated at 44,000, it had sunk by
1896 to 39,800; but the returns of 1901 added
3,000 to this total. This arrest of decay is chiefly
due to the operations of the “Young Maori”
party, an association of the most educated and
progressive among the Maoris to avert the
threatened doom of their race by teaching “the
gospel of work,” and the avoidance of ignorance,
uncleanliness and laziness. The leader of the
movement is a young Maori named Apirana
ISTgata, M.A. and LL. 13. of the M.L. University.
It has been in operation during the past five years.
The members of the association visit the different
pahs, doing their best to discredit the Maori
tohungas or prophets, teaching the doctrines of
cleanliness and improved sanitation, and opening
labor-bureaux and technical schools in native
centres.
* • * •
“ Alone ” : There is no necessity for the
various agricultural departments to unduly adver-
tise or excite themselves over their more or less
unsuccessful attempts to preserve the harmless,
necessary egg. The cheap, handy, and by this
time widely-known preparation, “ waterglass,”
will make them keep good longer than any house-
wife is able to keep her hands off them. Eggs put
away in it last October are as good to the palate,
and to look at, as the fruit the hens favored us
with this morning, Probably it’s only a question
of germ-free surroundings and a cool temperature.
“ S. .Snell” : O f course it
is sometimes hard to find
several amusements in the
bush, and that may account.
J was doomed to spend a half-
day and a night at Bell’s Hill,
and there is no more woful hole
anywhere than Bell’s Hill.
When the landlord of the
Packers’ Arms was asked what
a man might do to mitigate
the prevailing desolation, he
suggested that a man might
get drunk. This appears to
be the popular method at
Bell’s Hill, but I am a
miserable for whom drink
can do nothing, and the
landlord kindly remem-
bered that the coves up
at Giffin’s were giving a
send-off to Long Tom
Cullen that night, and he
undertook to get me an
“invite.” Giffin’s was a
saw-mill a mile or so out,
and I went and was thank-
ful. Long Tom Cullen’s
send-off was a male affair.
There were 15 menpre sent,
and much liquor happened
and many speeches, not to
mention fiddling, con-
certina-playing, and a fes-
tive song or two. I
beard much .about Long
Tom, evidently a man
of exceptional attainments and" many vir-
tues, and on the table were a travelling-
bag and a new walking-stick, but Tom
himself did not seem to be anywhere in
evidence. When five orators had snoken
to the everlasting honor and glory of T.
Cullen I ventured to ask the enthusiast on my
left: “ But which is Long Tom Cullen V ? “Ok,
he’s in the next room.” “Why doesn’t he oome
int M “He can’t.” ‘‘Can’t?” “No. This is
his send-off. He’s dead ! ”
• • * •
“ J.M.” : “ Crede ” (B. 12/7/’O2) is wrong
in saying that a growth of one inch utilises all the
albuminous substance in the seed below wheat
plants. In Southland (Maoriland) linnets in
millions tear up young wheat and oat plants to
get at the grain below. Watch one, and this is
now he performs: He grabs one blade and pulls it
out, and if the seed does not come up that bird
drops it like a streak, and so on till a seed does
come; then it is shelled and the milky substance
eaten. Larks eat grain, like linnets, but being
few in number do little damage. Heavy rolling
immediately after sowing is the only preventive.
• * * *
“ Belar ” : In (lunnedah (N.S. W.) disrrict
numbers of soft-wood trees (wilgas, &c.) have died
during the drought. But mistletoe is held respon-
sible ; some people are lopping as a remedy.
Drought has killed many others —box, gum, etc.
This is the seventh dry season and the dead €'iish.
* « * *
“M.A.R.”: Recently saw a strange in-
stance of “transmission of desire ” in an hotel-bar.
A half-caste Maori was threatening to biff a youth
about half his size when up jumped a navvy, about
the same weight and build as the pugnaoious one,
and took up the cudgels on behalf of the youth.
The half-caste seemed very full of go and faced
the music in a promising manner, but ere a blow
was struck he faltered, hesitated, and then
dropped on a form and declined to go on. Not
even the severest provocation could get him up to
the mark again and interest in the proceedings
was fast frittering away when, just as the navvy
had given up all hope of a scrap, the process of
transmission took place and the colored person
suddenly arose and decided to go on. Yet though
not more than a minute had elapsed since the
navvy was shrieking for gore, he now took a seat,
and under a perfect cyclone of taunts and abuse
remained immovable. Casey, the publican, then
objected to any further developments.
INSINUATING .
Mick: “If yer pegs out, Billy, can I have yer
bay filly?”
BILLY (feebly): “ Yes, Mick .”
MICK (absently): “Right! I'll come and get it
ter -morrow .”
C.O.Y. : Noaboriginaliarseemsto have
noticed that the common house-fly (in Melbourne,
at least) is afflicted this year by a reddish bug-like
parasite. Writer caught one fly, a week ago, with
four of these bugs, each about the size of a pin's-
head, attached to various parts of the body. The
unfortunate "host” had a tough job carrying his
guests about.
* * * •
An Otago (M.L.) settler was recently sum-
moned by the district stock-inspector for failing
to ‘‘dip ” his sheep within statutory time. Defen-
dant didn t appear, and the inspector produced
Ins stock-return as evidence against him. In the
column headed, “Name of dip used,” was
laboriously scratched ‘‘the Pure rain From heven
all the Yeare round.” Ungodly Bench, however
inflicted a fine of £2 10s.


Kuppers Elberfeld Lager
AUSTRALIAN
DIAMONDS.
Nearly Half-a-Million Pounds Sterling of Diamonds
were mined in Australia last year.
The Best of them are characterised by extreme showing them mounted in
o. TASTEFUL JEWELLERY—mounted In our ...
Our o„““.r.mb“?2 r to r Sli Diamond Jewels ol wondrous beauty at SO per cent lower than the
wholesale houses. . _ 1K
The good Australian Diamonds have very special lustre, tire ana omiiancy.
FAIRFAX ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 HUNTER STREET
The “ Fx. & R. Diamond Half-
Hoop Ring is a Marvel of
Value at £5 ss.
LONDON PRICES
PLAIN FIGURES
STRICTLY CASH
“Fardowner” sends The Bulletin this
spieler-and-mug story as quite true :
It happened in Adelaide, a few years back. I had
travelled by steamer from Brisbane, and, on board, had
met a couple of Western Queensland shearers, and decent
chaps they were. We chummed up, and went ashore to-
gether, taking a room with three beds in it, at a place in
Hindley-st. There was a big crowd stopping in the place,
mostly bushmen, down for a spell. I was pretty short at
the time, but had a job of wheat-cleaning to go to, at a
farm I had worked on before. The shearers persuaded
me to stop a few days in town with them, and then we
were to go up country together.
\mon"St the crowd was a long, red-haired and fluent
gentleman, who introduced himself to us, giving, unsoli-
cited, the information that he was a native of Queensland,
his name y, and that he was waiting in Adelaide to
take charge of a mob of horses for an up-country station,
and that he had lately returned from America, whither
he had gone with a circus from Australia. He had a most
engaging and affable style, but still we were “ not taking
anv,” and our united opinion, when by ourselves, was
that Mr. -y was no good. ’
It was warm weather at the time. My mates were out
for the night, and I slept alone. On retiring, I rolled my.
pants up in a tight ball, and put them under the bed. In
the pocket was a purse, and in it a half-crown and some
small silver. Had I possessed much I would not have
left it there. Just after daylight something partially
aroused me, and, opening my eyes sleepily, I saw Mr.
v clearing away from the foot of my bed. I watched
him leave the room, and lay some time considering the
matter, still more asleep than awake. Suddenly I was
wide-awake, and the thought struck me—had he ? One
glance under the bed was enough—he had ' On examin-
ing the purse I found it contained a “ traybit ” only. I
presume he thought I would need a “reviver”—it was
verv thoughtful on his part.
Now one might easily have raised a row with Mr. —y,
put him on his guard, and got nothing; but somehow I
said nothing then. When I told my mates on their
return they said that was just what they expected.
In two or three days we started up country. Before
leaving I explained to the landlord, who was much
obliged for the information and said he would lay a trap
with marked money for Mr. —y, as he had done with
success once before for another man of the same variety.
His parting words to me were “ Keep your eye on the
papers.” I did so, and in about a week I read that Mr.
—V had been snapped. This time he had stolen £24
from one poor “ bushy,” besides more from others—not a
bad night’s work. Committed for trial, I read the Judge’s
remarks when sentencing him. They were sweet to me.
“ You are a young, strong man, fit, I should say, for
almost any kind of work, but you prefer to steal the
earnings of hard-working men, and in passing sentence
upon vou it is my duty to earnestly impress upon your
mind the truth of that old maxim : ‘ Honesty is the best
policy.’ Think well over this in the seclusion of your
cell during the next four years.”
Now, it is quite probable that Mr. y ma.y read
this, as Tim Bulletin is well scattered over Australia. If
he does, he will now know, for the first time, how the
“ chump ” got even with him for his few shillings ; and
the advice I tender him, in case he has not accepted the
Judge’s (which is quite likely) is this : When “ upending
sleepers” for an honest living, always pass the teeto-
tallers (I know they’re scarce), and “ run the rule ” over
beer-chewers only. Otherwise you may get “snagged’
again. ,
“J.L.” on the wet-sheep question (B.
17/7/’o2j :
In deciding whether sheep are dry enough to shear,
much depends on how the shearers feel. After a few
weeks “ tigering,” when men are tired, it takes but little
rain to make sheep too wet to shear, but, after some
enforced idleness, things are reversed. In ’93, at Buk-
kulla, near Inverell, I saw men, after a few days’spell,
shear sheep so wet that the wool had to be put outside to
dry. Writer was once shearing, near Walgett, where
several wet-sheep disputes arose. A light shower fell one
afternoon, and we prejudged the outside sheep wet. In
the night, the boss and jackeroo ran the dry sheep out of
the shed, and refilled it with the outside sheep. Next
day, we “ cut out ” the damp sheep, but knocked off after
each man had shorn two dry ones. After that, the cook
always approached the discussion of wet sheep matters
with a broad grin.
* • * *
The Daly River mission property is now
wholly secularised. The Jesuits. spent £50,000 on
that Northern Territory speculation, and sacrificed
nearly a score of lives, and after all had to quit.
The aborigines were untameable. The stock, con-
sisting mainly of goats, was sold, and the land
reverted to Government. Oranges, bananas, and
lemons were the chief fruits cultivated.
HOW TO SUCCEED IN THE MAHOGANY
NORTH.
SWAGGIE: “Hullo, Pat, I thought you’s a
Kanaka."
TAT: “ Kape quiet. Oi am wan. Y‘ see, a
whoite man here has no chance of a job, so
Oi’m number twinty-noine with th’ ould bloind
boss, an’ me name is Billy Karr at la. Give
me love to th’ bhoys.”
“ Piccola ” : Of all people, dairy-farmers
are the most scrupulous about the milk they per-
sonally use. Every cookie chooses a particular
cow, with nice clean udder, calved at least
three weeks, and keeps her milk for his own
house. The amount of dirt, droppings and other
foul matter that gets into the milk at most farms
is shuddersome. Cows are often milked with
revolting sores disfiguring the teats, and Sydney
people would do well always to boil the milk
before using. Also, a farmer’s wife told me she’d
never touched factory-butter for 20 years, because
she’d been in the yards of some of the suppliers ;
said that it was a common thing for milk from a
cow, calved but a few hours, to be sent up to the
separator. -Other details are unprintable. Since
that interview I’ve kept a cow myself, and make
my own butter in a washing-bowl with a hay-fork.
CALLING HIMSELF TO DINNER.—SCENE ON THE MURRAY.
“ Hagram ” : Some time ago a meeting
was held at Kiama (N.S.W.) to protest against
the containing electorate being called Cool-
angatta. Somebody didn’t want any
“blackfellows’ names,” and one wiseacre
gravely., informed the meeting that Coolan-
gatta was an aboriginal word, and meant
a collection of huts. I have since dis-
covered that Coolangatta was called—prob-
ably by Berry, a Scot —after a place in
Scotland ; and that the word means some-
thing forget just what and water.
[Bulletin’s “Gazetteer” shows not one
place in Scotland beginning with Cool,
though it records 23 in Ireland, including
Coolboy ; and there is Coolscamp in Bel-
gium.—El). B.]
A N.S.W. Works proposal, which seems to
have more in it than most of them, includes an irri-
gation settlement at Menindie, and alight railway-
line from there to Broken Hill. Out of the Darling
near Menindie runs a creek which takes the fiood-
waters of the river into two lakes, Menindie and
Speculation, running back 15 miles towards
Broken Hill. Around these lakes is some rich
soil; and the hood-water could be dammed-in at
little cost. The place is peculiarly suited for
irrigation; and the closeness of a good-sized,
isolated market, which can’t grow a cabbage for
itself, is a circumstance which doesn’t often come
in the way of a new irrigation colony.
The British Govt, having ended the war
entered upon for the alleged purpose of extending
freedom to Englishmen in S’Africa, might with
advantage direct its attention to maintaining’
Englishmen’s freedom nearer home. This is;
quoted in London Morning Leader from the<
regulations imposed on laborer's who rent allot-
ments on Lord Normanton’s Crowland estate:
10. No occupier shall work on his own land after six
o’clock in the morning, or before six o’clock in the even-
ing, without the written consent of his master when ii*
employment, nor when out of employment if he has re-
fused or neglected to obtain work or begun to work and
then left it.
11. Each occupier shall with his family attend some
place of worship once at least every Sunday, and shall
enforce the attendance at Sunday-school of all his
children of proper age.
19. Occupiers keeping their families regularly at home
when capable of servitude ineligible.
Presumably “ servitude ” means domestic or farm
service, but in any case it describes the freedom
allowed to Englishmen who may happen to be
tenants of such as Lord Norman ton. The above
' are regulations 10, 11 and 19. There are others
about equally interesting.
THE LAST STRAW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sick man felt the cool spring wind
Blow softly on liis head,
And murmured “ I am not inclin
At present, to be dead.”
The sick man heard a trumpet call
A far-off battle-cry—
And gaily whispered, “ After all,
There’s time enough to die.”
A friend came laughing in the room,
His voice was full of glee—
ys he, “ Old man, away with gloom—
They’ve made you a J.P. ! ”
The faint flush on the sick man’s cheek
Died suddenly away ;
His voice became a sobbing shriek,
His face was like pipe-clay.
“ And, when they found me sick and weak,
To suit their wicked ends
They went and made of me a Beak—
Because I had no friends !
“ They used to hold me in respect
Not very long ago ;
What dreadful wreck of intellect
Has brought me down so low ? ”
The sick man turned him to the wall,
With his last breath said he—
“ If letters I must have at all
Let them be R.1.P."
C.R.
A Talk with the Winner of the Dunlop
Road Race.
Littleohild, who won the Dunlop Road Race
from Goulburn to Sydney, and cut down the
record to Bhr. for 137 i miles —a cut of 2hr.
2min. off previous best—is Tasmanian born,
stands sft. llin., and weighs 12.6 in his skin. The
day after the race he talked thus: —
“ I’m not married; no fear ! I don’t intend to ;
there are no points in that; 137 miles on the bike
would be a long way from home if a fellow was
married. I was born in Hobart, and I went to
school up the East Coast. am 26 years old.
Night before the race I went to bed at 11; awoke
at 5 ; then I had another sleep till 6.30; I had a
steak, two eggs, and a cup of tea. Some of em
had 20min. start of me ; and I could hear em
going away as I was finishing breakfast, I here
was a frost. The bridges were heaped with it
like snow. I could see the men ahead of me,
riding with one hand, while they kept the other
behind their back, up their guernsey, to keep it
warm.
* * * *
“From the start I had one thought—‘ Would
the back men catch me ? ’—and my mind never
wandered from that one thought for the first 47
miles ; it drove me over 47 miles of mountains in
2A hours. Then it was Moss Vale, and they told
me I was ahead of all of ’em. That news was the
biggest shock I got on the road. So I got off and
ate a fowl—or most of it; I put the legs m the
bag and ate them on the road. I had no bread.
The fowl was sprinkled with. salt. I drank a cup
o’ tea with two eggs in it with the fowl at
Moss Vale. I had more tea and egg at Picton ;
and another fowl walking up the Razor-back four
miles this side Picton. I carried a can o beet
tea — lb pint—-fixed on the bike;. I had a pull at that
now and again. Another drink of beef tea at
Campbelltown and a glass of sherry at Bankstown.
And I chewed celery. It’s better than a drink;
it keeps the mouth cool. If you’re thirsty.on the
bike you can drink three times as much as is good
for you. But the bag o’ tucker they gave me at
Campbelltown, the hard-boiled eggs, the oranges,
the bananas and the raisins I carried round my
neck right into Sydney P.O.
* * * *
“I don’t feel ill after the race. But I know
I’ve had a ride. The only thing that troubles me
is my appetite. I’ve been hungry ever since I got
off the bike. I had two breakfasts this morning
straight off, without getting up from the table.
“ I ran over a fellow who fell off his bike—one
of the competitors —lb miles out of Goulburn.
Coming down the Razorbaek, in dodging another
fellow, I ran up a wattle tree. I held on
to the branches and let the bike go. There
were crowds at every town and village on the
load, farmers and their wives and people offering
us tea, milk, coffee, and tucker; and the cheers
of the people freshened me up—sent me along.
The only thing I suffer to-day is that my right
hand is numb with the vibration .of the handle-
bar—so numb I can’t hold a knife in it.
* * * *
“As I said, I had one thought for the first 40
miles; but at Moss Vale, where I had the
fowl, I got another thought—Harris. Harris
glued himself to my back wheel, determined
to stick till Harris dropped. For the last
hundred miles I had Harris on my back wheel
and Harris on my brain. I wanted Harris to pace
and pace about with me. But Harris said that
Harris was too tired. He, too, was tired of Harris.
I tried to shake Harris off all the time without
knocking myself right out. But Harris took good
care that I didn’t get away from Harris; Harris
watched me too closely. I used to suddenly shoot
■out on half-mile bursts to get a break of 50 yards
on Harris. And every time I finished a, burst I
would look round—Harris ! Afterwards I used to
put in a burst and not look round. I’d listen !
listen to the breathing of Harris. Harris hugging
my back wheel, up-hill; Harris, Harris down hill,
on the flat, Harris. Fowl and Harris, beef-tea
and Harris. Tea, milk, sugar, eggs, port wine—-
and Harris. From the top of Picton Range 50
miles into Sydney—head wind ! —head wind and
Harris. Coming down the range, with the sun
behind my back, the shadow that fell in front was
Harris’s. I felt that Harris bad married me to
Harris. I tried to think out how I could get
away from Harris; but I couldn’t, because
of Harris. At Bankstown Harris asked me to
have a glass of sherry with Harris. I felt
it was kind of Harris. I consented, got oft with
Harris, drank with Harris, drank Harris’s health.
Then I re-mounted with Harris. The last two
miles with Harris I took it easy, for I knew, same
as Harris, that I was in for a tussle with Harris.
Sure enough I was right about Harris. I had
suffered for a hundred miles from Harris, now the
crowd around the winning-post gave me Harris .
Harris ! Harris ! A hundred yards from home
Harris got in front with Harris’s wheel. Then I
put in all the kicks I could, and Harris and I hung
dead level for 25yds., and for another 25, I and
Harris. Then I had three more kicks left and
Harris hadn’t, so I got clear bv half-a-wheel from
Harris and beat Harris. f f• t all right at the
finish, but it makes a d; hr /ice when youre
winning, and if Harris had ii si shed in front of me
I’d have felt more knocked up than Harris.
S. A. MILLS.
“ J.R.” writes :
Bulletin’s “militaryvcorrespondent” (2/8’02) seems to
have found a mare’s nest. What on earth does Mr.
Chamberlain know or care about Australian rifle-clubs,
and why shou'd he give orders to Gen. Hutton ? He has
other fish to fry, and has many months’ work cut out in
S’Africa. If the members of the rifle-clubs don’t want to
belong to military bodies or to be drilled, but only to
become good shots, they don’t interest Gen. Hutton
either. He is only concerned with military bodies. A
good deal of humbug is at the bottom of the cry of the
rifle-clubs. The Commonwealth is expected to give them
free rifles and ammunition, and get nothing in return. If
the men become good shots, they are in no way bound to
defend the eountry. They do not form any part of its
defensive organisation. They also want a “staff officer
to look after their interests, or rather their ammunition
supply. Judgingby recentdevelopments, it would bea good
thing if the ammunition supply were cut short or cut off al-
together throughout Australia. There is a great deal too
much promiscuous shooting. It is quite proper to teach
the Commonwealth soldiers to shoot straight ; but it
should be done under proper supervision, and when a
man goes to the range for practice he should be given the
exact number of cartridges he will have to use, and it
should be someone’s duty to see that he pockets none.
Match-shooting is becoming a dangerous nuisance.
People who have a fancy for it should be made to join the
country’s defence force and be paid for their proficiency
by the country without the intervention of associations
or clubs. The money spent on such things would pro-
vide a very substantial prize-fund, and its withdrawal
from the associations and clubs, whose members shoot
without proper supervision, would save the public a deal
of annoyance and danger.
REPLYING TO THE PRESS.
THE LOW COMEDIAN (disgusted with the criticism
of his remarkable performance): “ No, no;
take it away, boy. It's a scurrilous rag !”
NEWSBOY : “Sorry if we hurt yer feelins, sir,
but we has our dooty to do by the public."
Suggested motto for the Robert Burns
statue in Melbourne :
The Scotch get the soil,
The Irish the jobs,
The Jews get the spoil,
The English each one robs.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H Newman, the well-known jeweller of Lo
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. Ihe firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A tnal par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.


Wc^ation^, —
rfen, porye
<^ OR l c °f ®n
q o y r refuses /J
(*o^)
too,„« ouTTo '%■*!- V
'[br A l *-!,' 1 \
"|ov/n wljete litoral syr f lf}'J on
is blAyod •IS.'ltu- 6noj;s to
1 -t?/ir eyos 7% W % «" W
5 . rovvi loWio^'A' 1 "'S’jbjk
j % <Aeel
/ i
/ /
(
Bunyi fkp
1 to 4)1017 At li«aK-
\
A a|so A« s»v A i
doe« m A«
S\ k»l sq«>t« ; .l/^-
P'Xoe'K « F\ 4
- H'
\
’Tfey are sV w T \
| tije WorKlnt<»f ifo-V
sf/New Cow V ,
now to
ttl Itie off ifienfjarsty
/7 in ttje interior’.
4[s° ifie new
field Gkss for* if\\)[
stotK used out- \JpM
Vest" to €»?a))lc Irjetn '
1b see ttfe Ijert^*..
pKod t-
oflfc County SM *' *4=*°
-
WoT)die~rtd if 'lt 6 - 7/ n~
little Stone '> ~ \
Aour Would oood S Vfj
If 'flT.v were Wlcd lon<r en°ugb Pondered.
'P%W*\* 5 fe WS ** Wo4 -f»K
V«W !!r '-X
Wckc Quite, "tickled
v 4 tfc new ftflScte *e« -wits
in wfaid,.ifc K*aucc wßj
trotyl HftS ttfe
of W*«S to
T)2ind lii7^_
1 _
ti)e nev/
/) 6dHojt>er>
li
t«j
;rs.Un«l <ljj|l
( i»W<5 « fc 4*
:1?' K«}>
SMMMfcr '.',«
t^itved.
/*\nd ifc Uttj
round tfje
| to K«eJ>/
■'vt- tge l^ if 7 off-/
rr J^ n 'j
*f) erj<A.
'flow (S«cys i§C trjeriior' |
o'/er life aftfa <Jej>v'l'Tt 7^sV' f>) <
“7 '/AW you l)aye "to do 15 *lO Kec|> <^-
% ta*7<i WorK - Y
Vione Cro}> r r c<aly 1b -follow &&<>%(r..
it) srtgulAr rofefan— \s
THE BOER AGRICULTURAL DEPUTIES TO AUSTRALIA—WHAT THEY WILL SEE.
“London, 2 5th Jul y . — The scheme of the British Government for giving instruction in scientific farming to specially-selected Boers, with a view to their imparting the knowledge
gained to their neighbors, has aroused much interest among the Boers, many of whom have applied for membership of the parties of agriculturists who are to be despatched to Canada
Australia and Maoriland for the purpose of studying up-to-date farming methods.” — CABLE.


“Etis Majesty took hi 9
seat in the Coronation
chair, wherein he was to
be anointed. The Dean of
Westminster, taking the
Ampulla and Spoon from o£?
the Altar, poured some of the
Holy Oil into the Spoon, and with
it the Archbishop anointed the King.”
This looked uncommonly like a
visit to the barber.
.. The Mistress of the Robc3 carried the terminal, or
Her Majesty’s train ; her own train, in turn, being
supported by pages in blue.”
This gave the lady-spectators a better opportunity
for making a mental calculation of the cost per
yard of the terminals and things.
u Hidden from the publie view were Mr. Edwin
/ Abbey and a French artist busily sketching the
' scene. Mr. J. Longstaff, the Australian artist, was
present in another part of the building.”
Our artist --(though not “ mentioned in
despatches **) was also concealed about the
premises. His native modesty only permits
him to give a view of the peep-hole through
which he saw the show : the smallness of
the aperture no doubt accounts for the
unsatisfactory nature of these sketches—
which cost The Bulletin 10& an inch per
cable.
‘“TRY NOT THE PASS,’ THE OLD MAN SAID"
“ The N.S.W. Legislative Council has defeated once more
the Women’s Suffrage Bill. An amendment was moved for
submitting the question to a referendum of women."
The Old Party : “ You can’t pass here. Go back and bring me a referen-
dum, and we’ll see about it.’’
The Woman: “ A referendum ! From whom!”
Old Party : “ From yourself 1 ”
"The Archbishop of Canterbury nearly .
collapsed when descending the dais, two
Bishops and the attendant being required
to assist him and support him towards his
chair at the north end of the altar, where
he stopped.”
•« D ean Bradley was also exceedingly infirm. While carrying
the Communion Cup from the Queen to the table his knees
gw# way, and two of the bishops ran to his assistance.
After which the choir sang “ Be Strong.
“ The Archbishop of Canterbury administered the oath, to which the
King replied in a voice that could be heard half way down the Abbey.
Even Dick Seddon, who was busily engaged keeping the flies off the
Archbishop of Canterbury, could hear every word.
THE CORONATION—AND A LOCAL MATTER.


A.
FOR WEDDING PRESENTS, USEFUL AND ACCEPTABLE.
Showrooms: 815 GEORGE-BTREET, SYDNEY.
h
K i I < /
Vi
A. SAI NDERS.
Two SERVIETTE KINGS, in Silk-lined Case,
Pure Silver--]dated on Hard Nickel Silver,
in three similar patterns of ferns, 12s Gd, 15s Gd ;
Pure Solid Silver, 30s, 355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, makes Two Dishes
Pure Silver-plated on White Nickel Silver, 40s.
Other styles, £2 10s to £6.
J
A. SAUNDERS.
0102 —HOT WATER KETTLE and STAND,
Silver-plated on White Metal, Extra Chased, £2 10s.
Similar Designs, £2, £3, £3 10s.
TEA POT, Extra Heavy Silver-plated, 27s Gd.
Similar styles, 17s Gd, 20s, 255, 30s, £2.
i
M
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class S lver-plated CRUET,
as above, 21s.
EGG CRUET, Pure Silver-plated,
with Spoons, 255.
Other styles, 80s, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, White or Coloured
Ornamented Glass, Pure Silver electro-
plated on Hard Nickel Silver, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Beautiful 8-Day, striking hours and half-hours, Marblette CLOCK, £2 2s 6d.
Reliable Timekeepers.
A MOST ACCEPTABLE PRESENT.
Post Eree Anywhere.
JAM or BUTTER KNIFE,
Pure Silver-plated on Hard
White Metal, 2b, 2s 6d, 3s 6d,
4s 6d. Special Value.
CANDLESTICK,
Pure Silver-plated, 12s Gd.
Leaf Pattern, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS,
Oiik DINNER. GONG, Silver-plated Mounted, £2 10s.
Other styles, 17s 6d,v2Cs, 255, 30s.
A NICE PRESENT.
£g|r WE GUARANTEE YOU THE UTMOST
, SATISFACTION.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATE!) PRICE LIST FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver-pJated
FLORAL STAND,
Ruby Glass, 12s 6d
a pair.
Very Cheap.
SALTS,
Silver-plated Stands,
ds 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d.
■A
m
lilili
i ‘a.—l -- ''
il'j
■. :
V
' A. SAUNDEBS.
Handsomely Chased, First-class, A 1 TEA and COFFKE SET, £8 10s. B Quality, £6 10s. TEA SET only, £3 10s and £4 4s
Other styles, £5 ss, £6 6s to £2O. Send for Illustrated Book.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE,
Silver Electro-plated, Handsomely
Chased, 16s 6d and 20s ;
extra quality, 255, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver BOOK MA ii K, 2s (id.
A. SAUNDERS.
A 1 duality 4 o’elock CAKE FORKS, Pure Silver-plated
Hard White Metal, 10s 6d and 12s 6d half-dozen.
Our Silyerplate is England’
Highest Quality.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bm.-Oak BISCUIT. Silver-Plated
Mounted, 20s ; Shield only, 15s ;
Iluted Rims, 255; Floral China
Mounted, 15s tid, 20s, 255, 3Cs.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated on Hard
Nickel Silver. Beautifully Chased and Ornamented, 36s ;
can lie Used as Cake Dish or Salver. Similar styles, 21s, 255,
30s, £2, £2 10s. A USEFUL PRESENT.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, Beautifully Chased,
85s, £2, £2 10s, £B. Cheaper styles, 20s, 255, 30s.
m
1
A. SAUNDERS.
First-elass 4-Bottle CRUET,
Silver-plated, 355. Similar, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oak INKSTAND, Highest Quality, £2 10s.
Other styles, Silver-plated, 30s, 422, £2 10s, £3.
•A-
K
‘Ww
mm
m
A. SAUNDERS
Beautifully Chased and Caived JEWEL CASE,
Pure Silvei-plated, Silk-lined, 15s 6d.
POCKET SPIRIT FLASKS.
All Sorts, Prices, and Styles, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s,
20s, 255, 30s, £2.
If?/:
o
A. SAUNDERS.
Double JAMS, Floi al Ornamented China, 255, 30s,
In single, 15s Od. Pure Silver-plated Rims.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER AND SILVERSMITH.
815 AND 817 GEORGE-ST.,
NEARLY OPPOSITE
RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY.


RHEUMATISM.^^
FISHER AND COMPANY’S
KILLRHEU
(REGISTERED.)
KILLRHEU is an Unfailing and Wonderful Remedy for Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Neuralgia and all Aches and Pain.
KIHRHEII utterly conquers andkills RHEUMATICS
£3OO
Were paid for the Formula of this
truly Great IVledicine.
DOSE
POE ADULTS —One tablespoonful every night in a tumblerful of liot water and white wine such as hock
POE CHILDEEN—One dessertspoonful in hot water, with or without wine.
KILLRHEU
operates on the whole human economy ; not a drop of blood escapes its influence.
KILLRHEU
has an immediate effect upon the Liver and Kidneys These important organs are cleansed and
strengthened in a most effective manner. Torpidity of Liver, Constipation, Biliousness and Sick Head-
ache are surely removed.
KILLRHETJ
for Indigestion, Stomach Pains and Flatulency.
is an unfailing cure
During Winter it is a Pleasant, Delicious and Soothing Medicine, inducing
Sleep and Comfort
- - - KILLRHEU DRIVES URIC ACID ENTIRELY OUT OF THE SYSTEM. - -
NONE GENUINE WITHOUT THIS—
OUR SIGNATURE
gse
MANUFACTURING CHEMISTS
and DRUGGISTS,
Nearly opposite G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
A THOROUGH CURE.
Avoca-street, Randwick, July Ist, 1902.
Messrs. Fisher & Co.
Dear Sirs.—Without any unnecessary words or rigmarole about my case of
rheumatism, I wish to say briefly and earnestly how thankful I am for the
wonderful cure effected by the use of KILLRHEU. kor many yeais I
suffered intense agony from rheumatic pains—sleepless nights, want of appetite,
and general weakness made life a prolonged misery. All kinds of remedies
were tried, including a belt, but no relief came, until I fortunately tried
your KILLRHEU. The result has been marvellous ; after taking only one
bottleful every pain and ache has gone. The medicine seemed to reach the
whole system, and effected a’thorough cure. I now sleep soundly, my appetite
is excellent, my weight is increasing, and bf A ’° wor k *« «• oleasure. I sincerely
thank Providence for the transformation. For the sake of other suffereis
from rheumatism, I will only be too happy to reply to letters or confirm by
word of mouth the great cure effected by KILLRHEU.
Yours sincerely,
Witness George Beach.
KSi
■
m
i®
■
3
SSIS |
• -
...V i;
mm,
(wK
Ml
;
in
.
ARTHUR ACKLING.
Rheumatism of the Knees,
A well-known business gentleman has both written and called, stating that he suffered from persistent and almost unbearable
RHEUMATISM in the Knees, and that after three doses of “ KILLRHEU ” all pain disappeared. The gentleman does not wish
RHEUMATISM . , -- . -
his name to appear in an advertisement, but is agreeable that his name and the facts of the. case may be supplied to any person applying tor the same.
All Chemists and Stores, 2/6 and 4/6 Per
Wholesale in Sydney from Messrs. Elliott Bros., Ltd., The Australian Drug Co., and all Wholesale Houses. Wholesale in Melbourne from Messrs. Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., and all Wholesale Houses.
Wholesale in Brisbane from Messrs. Elliott Bros., Ltd., Taylor & Colledge, and all Wholesale Houses. Wholesale in Tasmania from Messrs. A. P. Miller & Son, Hobart, and all Wholesale Houses.


A FREE VETERINARY BOOK.
A most useful Veterinary Book is attached
to every bottle of Condy’s Fluid. This Book
contains instructions for curing most of the
ailments and accidents affecting Horses,
frogs, Sheep, Cattle and Poultry.
In this Book eminent Veterinary Sur-
geons recommend Condy’s Fluid as a
.certain cure for Sore Shoulders, Sore Backs,
Broken Knees, Grease, Thrush and
Cracked Heels in Horses. —Scab, Foot
Bot, Fly, etc., in Sheep.—Hoove, Foul in
the Foot, Wounds and Sores in Cattle.
Condy's Fluid is made by Condy &
Mitchell, Ltd., of 65, Goswell Road,
London, England, and is sold by all
Chemists and Stores. Beware of Colonial
substitutes. Insist on having Condy’s Fluid.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Hlj
<3-0 TO HELL-
KiOLAND for Pretty Stamps, blit
if you want real pood stamps, send to,
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
HATS.
HATS.
HATS
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats'will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastie & Sons*
SRISBA.3NTE.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Is the Governor-Generalship to die of
inanition ?
Epitaph for Australian iron and steel
industries dying still-born —Nil nisi bonus.
The Radical Peter Airey was the first
victim of Q. Hansard’s retrenchment scheme.
He spoke at 2 a.m. (one of the best speeches heard
for years) and got four inches. A maundering
Philpite, who preceded him, got four columns.
The mere statement of an opinion such as
that of J.C. Fitzpatrick, M.L.A., (N.S.W.), that
a .Judge whose decision is overruled by the Full
Court should pay the costs of appeal, does a
service. The opinion is wrong, but its statement
is right.
In 1894, when N.S. W, Assembly still
numbered 141 members, an average of 20 was
with difficulty maintained during a debate on a
motion to abolish the Leg. Council. The other
night, in a. House of 125, the average attendance
during a similar debate was 24.
A Philpite orator recently dwelt proudly
(in the Assembly) on the fact that Queensland had
had 25 deficits and actually 18 surpluses. If all
the surpluses of the Continuous Govt, for the last
10 years were added together they would total
£105,000, while one deficit (the last one) amounts
to! £431.000.
“If Government gives seed - wheat to
farmers after a drought, so as to help them to take
advantage of the next season, why does not the
Skate provide us with food for ourselves and our
little ones to enable us to take the next job that
offers ? ” That is the logical demand of one of the
Adelaide unemployed.
The Bill providing lor the borrowing of
£1,000,000 for irrigation purposes is making good
progress through N.S.W. Assembly. The prin-
cipal change, so far, is that the proposal to provide
a sinking fund for the repayment of the loan has
been indignantly struck out. The idea of repay-
ing anything was too horrible.
Horace Tozer devotes himself, in his
leisure time in London, to writing magazine
articles for British journals. A bitter pro-Kanaka
effusion appeared recently over his name in the
Ejipire Review. Q. Govt, sees nothing wrong in
a public official thus comporting himself—and
openly in the Assembly defends Tozer’s action.
'Victorian Railway Minister Bent has
addressed a memo, to Manager Fitzpatrick asking
him to suggest a way of wiping out the railway
deficit. The Bulletin begs to suggest a way.
The most obvious cause of the deficit is too
much railway for too little population. If the
big, almost unpopulated estates were compul-
sorily resumed and cut up, .Victoria would soon
have 100,000 or 200,000 more people in its coun-
' try districts. Then there would be more traffic
and more revenue, and the deficit Jwould have a
chance to disappear.
A LOYAL SUBJECT—HIS COMPLIMENT
TO LOYALTY.
(Scene: Sydney Domain.)
1ST. DERELICT: “Bli’me, what yer doing of? ”
2ND. DITTO : “Aw—I wash my feet, doncher-
know, every time a King of England’s
crowned.”
It was truly cheering to hear a well-known
Northern supporter of the Philp Govt, rise
recently in his place in the Assembly and confess
that at least ten of the Govt.’s supporters were
against a reduction of payment of members just
as much as the members of the Opposition. And
the Brisbane press carefully suppressed his utter-
ances next morning.
The rottenness of Victorian politics is
suitably illustrated by ex-Solicitor-General Agar
Wynne’s leadership of the Anti-Factories Act
party in the Leg. Council. Wynne was a staunch
supporter of the Act when serving under Peacock,
and Prendergast, the most Radical man in present
day Vic. polities, called him “the only democrat
in the Peacock Govt.”
Premier Irvine has announced to the press
that Federation “costs” Victoria over £400,000 a
year, mainly because of the removal of these
duties : Tea (£100,000), sugar (£135,000), stock
(£60,000). This ought to be interesting to the
hardened N.S.W. anti-Billites, who used to reckon
that Victoria stood to make millions a week out of
poor N.S.W. in consequence of Federation.
Vic. Treasurer Shiels' Budget speech con-
tained one pill that wasn’t at all sugar-coated. In
proposing to knock £50,000 off the municipal sub-
sidy he said, “ The under-valuation in some shires,
especially the shires that have got most out of the
millions of money spent in irrigation and water
supply, amounts to a positive scandal.” Kyabram
(Rodney Irrigation Trust) winced, but said never
a word.
The incredibly foolish Philp, having got
his State into an unspeakable financial mess, tells
the public that he thinks the time has come for a
renewal of the system of free immigration in
Queensland. And roaming over great tracks of
Northern and Western Queensland you meet num-
bers of gaunt, hungry men who can’t get a day’s
work in a month. The news of Philp’s inten-
tions will certainly enliven them.
If the Commonwealth Government insists
that two houses, one in Sydney and the other in
Melbourne, shall be kept up for the Gov.-General
at Commonwealth expense, the Melbourne one for
quasi-permanent residence and the other for
occasional visits, the other States can reasonably
put in a claim to have houses in their capitals
similarly up-kept, or to be relieved from con-
tributing to the speculation in Sydney and Mel-
bourne.
Deputy - Postmaster - General Dalgamo,
under examination by the newspaper postal pro-
tection advocates, was confronted with a “divided
duty.” As a former officer of the State of N.S.W.
he had to condone the old unholy alliance between
post-office and press, and as a present Federal
official he had to avoid uttering a word which
could be construed as condemning the termination
of the liaison. It was a tight place, but he got
through without turning a hair.
S. Australia, the hard-up State which has
lately sacked its oldest officers to save their poor
pay, has just received from the “War Office” a
consignment of 10 drill-instructors, shipped from
the eastern States to do for £l5OO a year what has
hitherto been done for £65. Ten drill-instructors
—and there isn’t a recruit in sight! To the poor,
pinched State, making an honest attempt to live
within its means, it would seem altogether a farce
if it hadn’t so many of the points of a tragedy.
The offer that, if Australia agreed to help
along British industries by admitting British
goods on better terms than those of other countries,
Britain would still only admit Australian goods on
the same terms as goods from Franee and Russia,
but would repay the concession by giving larger
subsidies to Britain’s oion ships trading in Aus-
tralian waters, was the kind of liberal offer that
should be long remembered at this end. Aus-
tralia was to give Britain something, and Britain
was to show its appreciation by giving itself
something.
The attempt to get a second hearing for
the Iron Bonus Bill
roused up the Foreign-
trade party, and es-
pecially Thomson,
of N. S. W., to
protest against
“ nursing up” arti-
ficial industries to
“a sickly man-
hood.” And cer-
tainlyif the manhood
of the iron industry
proved as sickly as
that of the N.S.W.
dead - sheep pastoral
business and the eight-
bushel agricultural busi-
ness there would be
cause to complain. If
the iron business was
allowed to work its em-
ployees the same hours
for the same wages as
the agricultural biz does,
it wouldn’t need either
Protection or bonus. And
if it received half the aid
and coddling that the pas-
toral and agricultural biz
has done, it wouldn’t need to
pay the same starvation wages.
The misery of the affair is that
the Freetrade party insists on
spending all the aid on theindustries
in which Australia is heavily han-
dicapped by drought and barren-
ness, and refusing it to those in
which this country has a fair chance of success.
Despite the recent row in N.S.W. As-
sembly over faulty Consolidating Bills, the Govt,
still goes on passing them, stifling debate by
applying the “gag.” Many mistakes have been
made by the Commission, and some bills have had
to be “reconsolidated,” as it were. A ludicrous
error, for instance, occurred in the Vagrancy Act.
John Norton blushed—almost—as he drew atten-
tion to the wording of a certain clause, and
begged the ladies in the gallery to withdraw while
he read the offensive section.
A few weeks ago the House of Representa-
tives decided by 25 votes against 12 to grant
bonuses only to ironworks owned by the State.
It has now reversed that decision by 24 votes to
18, and thrown the bonus open to anyone who
likes to start the necessary works. But the Free-
trade party is very strong in the Senate, and it is
so bitterly opposed to starting any Australian
industry that will interfere with the profits of the
miserable gang of foreign importers that there is
probably still trouble ahead.
Another effort is to be made in N.S.W.
Parliament to pass the Amending Libel Bill.
Wise tried it, See tried it, and now O’Sullivan
will chaperon the measure. But the Assemhy
will scotch and the Council slay it. At no previous
period were Assembly and Council so thorough in
THE SHEARING TROUBLE.
—ABORTIVE SYDNEY CON-
FERENCE.
“ Mr. Cunningham (Pastoralists), in the course of a
conciliatory speech, said the facts and figures adduced
went to show that shearers were well paid, highly paid,
in fact. Pastoralists used to get on very well with the
shearers when they managed them themselves and they
had no occasion to apply to the Union. It seemed to him
they were not now allowed to manage their own busi-
ness."—Daily Paper.
The Churches also got on very well with the
heretic “when they managed him themselves” —
i.e.% till the formation oj the anti-bonfire league.
distrust of the Press. It is not very logical to
hang an illiberal libel law on the neck of the
Press because a powerful section of it is grasping
and mercenary, but both Houses get satisfaction
out of hearing the papers squeal.
Railways Minister Thomas Bent has un-
earthed the fact that the Victorian rolling-stock,
which professes to adequately represent £5,740,089
of borrowed money, is now only valued at
£3,042,000, over £2,000,000 in depreciation not
having been provided for out of revenue, as it
should have been. If Minister Thomas professes
to be surprised at that it is a very thin pretence.
Where, in Australia, is anything ever written off
for depreciation of works constructed out of loans ?
Bent shouldn’t confine his investigations to the
railways—unless he is trying to work up a case for
selling the lines to a syndicate.
Coghlan estimates that the capital sunk in
the N.S. W. pastoral industry is £138,724,000. The
gross return he estimates for 1901 at £13,707,000.
Out of this 26,619 hands have to be paid,
machinery of various kinds purchased, railway
freights paid, and losses of stock through bad
seasons made good. Altogether, the pastoral
industry doesn’t seem to return more than 5 per
cent, net on money invested. The country that
depends wholly or mainly on pasture and agri-
culture is always a poor country, and the “great
national industries,” as the Freetrade party loves
to call them, are a very moderate spec, on the
whole.
The Tas. House of Landlords is a perfect
whale at legislation affecting mere working people.
Decided, t’other night, in discussion on Inspection
of Machinery Bill, that no driver of an engine of
less than Bh.p. shall be required to hold a certi-
ficate of competency. A surgeon fathered the
brilliant suggestion—perhaps in the certain pro-
fessional knowledge that when a ricketty 7 h.p.
engine departs skyward, taking an uncertificated
driver with it, and leaving a large hole in the place
that knows it no more, the fragments will not
have to fall far enough to hurt themselves. One
horsepower makes a vast difference in calculations
of this sort.
There is a humorous side to the fuss now
being made by Melb. Chamber of Mines re the
excessive prices of explosives in Victoria, where
86s. a ease has to be paid for what the Johannes-
Cohens get at 555. One of the most awful
grievances the S’African Cohen suffered under
before he got Chamberlain to make war was the
dynamite monopoly, held by Nobels’ trust. Nobels
also hold the monopoly in Victoria, and the prices
they charge for explosives are just about the same
as those in S Africa before the war. The Irvine
Govt, should, therefore, be prepared at any
moment for hostilities on the lints of the historic
Jameson raid.
The present Vic. proposal to reduce
Hansakd by two men amounts to shameful
sweating. Some years ago, an attempt was made
to work Hansard with four men, and it failed
miserably, because the overworked staff was at
most times one short through somebody breaking
down. The Sabbatarian Minister M’Kenzie will
also be shocked to hear that the reduction will
entail the reporters working all the Lord’s day,
and filling the air with curses instead of prayers
and reading of the Book. The whole idea is'but
a miserable concession to the selfish demands of a
morning paper, chagrined at seeing its best men
walk, over to Hansard whenever the chance arose.
One of the new follies proposed by the Bill
Lyne Federal department is the. appointment of
a commission to consider the value of the State
properties to be taken over by the Federal Gov-
ernment. Why not simply pay the States what
they ask for the properties by taking over a
corresponding amount of their debt, and let things
rest at that? If theproperties are worth £10,000,000
and the Federal Government pays £30,000,000
for them it makes no difference, so long as it
is simply a transfer of debt. The Australian
people own the properties now when they are in
the hands of the States, and they will own them
when they belong to the Commonwealth. The
Australian people owe the money for them now
through their State Governments ; they will owe
it then through their Federal Government. When
there is so much to do it is foolish to haggle over
a thing that doesn’t matter. Whether the States
are paid nothing at all, or are paid six times the
real value by Jhe Commonwealth assuming that
amount of debt, is all the same thing.
The names of those strong and con-
scientious N.S.W. Freetraders, Edwards and
Holy Joe Cook, are noticeable among those who
voted against agreeing with the Senate’s proposal
to reduce the Protection granted to the beer in-
dustry. The necessity for giving lots of Protection
to the beer industry is one to which Free-
traders are very wide awake. A proposal to abso-
lutely abolish all Protection to the beer industry
would probably have brought up every Freetrader
in the House in protest against his own alleged
principles.
The motion of Arthur Griffith s jyI.L.A.,
for the abolition of N.S.W. Leg. Council should
be pushed to the uttermost. Some State must
make a beginning if this reform is to ba
carried out —merely through the establish-
ment of the habit and precedent, tha
abolition of one Upper House will make
it easier to abolish the others. • The N.S.W.
Council is a good one to begin with. It is
weak and easily knooked over. It is useless
in a democratic sense because it helps on no
reform, and in a Tory sense because it is
too feeble to seriously oppose any reform.
It represents about the last possibility of
harmless flabbiness —but it should go
despite its harmlessness, because it
costs money, because it isn’t orna-
mental, because of its past sins, and
because it is necessary to set a good
example to other States whose Coun-
cils are still actively injurious.
The rumor that the Vic. railway servants
will go on strike rather than submit to Treasurer
Shiels’ proposed wage reductions is gratifying.
The alternative lies between wage reductions or
an all-round tax on land, such as other countries as
good as Victoria, and other Fat Men as sacred as
the Victorian Fat Man, put up with as a matter
of course (the Vic. land-tax only touches proper-
ties that are more than 640 acres in extent and
£2500 in value, so that all Melbourne is exempt).
Shiels, being in political matters a coward of the first
magnitude, takes the wage reduction way as being
the line of least resistance. The only remedy is
to show him that he has made a mistake, and that
it is the line of most resistance.
N.S.W. Leg. Council having threatened
death to the Woman’s Suffrage Bill, there
are rumours of a possible appointment of
sufficient Labor M’s.L.C. to carry the measure.
The Bulletin trusts this isn’t so. The
only purpose for which Labor members should
be appointed to the Upper House is to carry
the Bill for the total abolition of that excres-
cence, and for that purpose they should be
appointed with all possible speed. Swamping for
any other purpose is utterly illogical. If the
Council is only to say ditto to the Assembly (and
the system of swamping it whenever it says any-
thing else than ditto proves that) then it isn’t,
wanted. The Assembly can say its own ditto.
The cabled news that Seddon has seen the
Austrian ambassador in London, and assured him
that his countrymen are treated just like other
visitors, has stirred the gall of the Austrians in
Maoriland. One of them sets forth that it is
over years since he applied for naturalisation
papers and complied with all necessary formali-
ties, and that he can’t even get an answer to.
his application; and he says that others are
similarly, or worse treated. Further, he says that.
Austrian immigrants who can comply with all
the conditions of the Immigration Restriction Act
are not allowed to land, or to prove that they can
pass the tests —the almighty Dick simply says,
they must go back, and Dick is law, or rather
Dick is above the law.
“ Atlang ” writes :
Re your par. (B. 19/7/’O2) concerning a referendum by-
the Queensland Bible-in-schools party on its pet hobby.
The modus operandi of a similar affair, which took place-
in S. Australia years ago, may be of interest An emis-
sary of the B. in S. party came round with voting-slips.
If he found both parents of a family in favor of his views,
both were asked to vote on slip. If only one parent was.
favorable, only that one was given a slip. If both parents,
were"antagonistic;' the B. in S. man entered a stroke (only
one, mind) in a note-book he carried for the noes—or else
he didn’t enter the stroke. Where the parents were
indifferent they were often badgered into signing on the-
plea that they had no marked objection. Result: A
brilliant one-innings victory for the B. in S. Result, a
brisk agitation through pulpit, press and platform. Re-
sult, an honestly-conducted referendum. Result: The
B. in S.—oh, where was he ?
Vic. Treasurer Shiels: “If the State
could carry on its business on the same free and
untrammelled lines as a private employer, if it
exacted the same application of energy to the
daily task, we might reduce the number of public
servants by 4000, and that would clear off the
whole of the deficit before us.” Just so ! Any
level-headed private employer—say the Melb.
Tram co. —would probably sack all unnecessary
hands, the ornamental Governor, Black Rod,
Sheriff, etc., and would pay as wages for each
billet what it thought the job was worth. (When
it found another equally large concern paying ita
Chief Justice £2OOO a year it wouldn’t give him
nearly twice as much just for the sake of looking
“ flash.”) But the vapid, indefinite Shiels doesn?fe-
explain why the State can’t run itself on common-
sense lines ; possibly the fact that it has a £9OO
a year Treasurer to start with has something to.
do with it.
A week or so before Tas. Parliament
opened, Premier Lewis, in accordance with time-
honored British precedent, journeyed down to.
Richmond (the whole village could be easily
stowed inside Sydney’s biggest church) to unfold ,
the Ministerial policy to his enlightened consti-
tuents. The policy was a fine large affair and
dealt with everything of Tasmanian, Federal, and
Imperial interest in a broad and statesmanlike,
manner. There were no interjections; the audi-
ence was far too over-awed to interrupt, and much .
too respectful to do anything but shuffle its feet
occasionally at a signal from the local magnate in ,
the chair. The statesman’s peroration was a sub-
lime flight of oratory. Then the local coach-,
driver rose apologetically and asked Premier Lewis,
K.C.M.G. (think of it!), when he thought it pro-
bable that that chains of metalling would be
done on the main road. And for the first time the.
audience grew interested.


Xshe *
LIPP
(©6e Genuine)
PIANO.
Tshe hIPP PIANOS are the lead-
ing Pianos of German
Manufacture. They have
been in use all over Aus-
tralia for over 4° years—
long enough to prove their
merits.
PLEASE
NOTE.
Lipp Pianos have been imi-
tated. If you want the
Genuine Lipp, you. can pro-
cure same only at Paling’s.
We stocK five models of tliese
Celebrated Pianos.
Please remember we are tbe
absolute Sole Agents.
Old Pianos taKen in Exchange.
New Pianos Sold on Easy Terms.
Catalogues Free.
W. H. Paling' Wb Co., Ltd.
33© GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
PALING’S (Patented)
VICTOR PIANOS.
&he Victor Pianos are specially
made to our order, designed
and patented by us, Known as
Victor I, Victor 11, and
Jshe New Victor Upright
Grand (with 3 pedals).
These Pianos at the price are the
best value obtainable.
XShe tone is full and rich, touch
excellent, handsome cases,
and durability guaranteed.
If you want a good grade Piano
at a moderate cost
BUY A VICTOR.
That’s the Piano you want.
Old Pianos taKen in Exchange.
New Pianos Sold on Easy Terms.
Catalogues Free.
W. H. Paling' (Sl Co., Ltd..
338 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
o
©©/ZlBOKIgE)
fg
ffiSWUILOPtSB
Sandow’s Own . . .
Combined Developer
The Latest and Most Popular Means
for PHYSICAL CULTURE at Home.
WONDERFUL IN ITS EFFECTS.
Will serve the purposes of a whole
family.
It may be used as:
1. Wail Exerciser (for arms, body and legs).
2. Heavy Weight-Lifting Exerciser.
3. Chest Expander.
4. Pair of Light Dumb-Bells.
A Complete Set of Charts supplied with each
Apparatus.
S. Hoffnung & Co., Ltd.,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE.
Sole Agents for Australia.
Quotations supplied to the Trade.
Dr. Torreggiani, of Armidale, is the only
foreigner holding the rank of Bishop in the R.C.
church in Australia.
Biliary Culcali
(GALL STONES) cubed m
VITADATIO
Suffered More or Less from 1888 to 1897.
To Mr. S. A. PALMER,
Dear Sir,—lt is with very great pleasure I testify to
the inestimable value of Webber’s Great Herbal Remedy,
VITADATIO.
In 1888 I had a severe attack of gall stones and conges-
tion of the liver, which confined me to my bed for some
time. The doctor who attended me said I would never
be thoroughly cured ; but I used to feel quite well be-
tween the attacks, which recurred very often —sometimes
two attacks in one week. In the year 1892 I was very
ill with my long-standing trouble, and had another
medical man, and he told me that gall stones could only
be cured by operation, which I would not consent to.
In February, 1897, I received a letter from my sister in
Dunedin, New Zealand, telling me of the wonderful cures
VITADATIO had affected there, and urging me to take a
course of this medicine. As soon as I knew VITADATIO
was obtainable in the colony, acting upon the advice of
my sister, I obtained six large-sized bottles of the remedy,
and am happy to inform you—and, in fact, the world for
the matter of that—l have been free from pain ever since
and now am in perfect health.
FLORENCE BURK.
“ Walmea,” Pentland Parade,
Yarraville, Melbourne.
i or further particulars,
S'. A. PALMER,
184 l*itt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The Price of Medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
1. For MIXED PAINTS, good quality, 4£d.
per lb.
2. For DRY COLORS, VARNISHES, BRUSH-
WARE—Cheapest in Sydney.
3. For PICTURE MOULDINGS, FRAMES,
MOUNTS, PICTURES, OLEOGRAPHS,
• SLIPS, and all Amateur's Requirements.
4. For KOH-I-NOOR SIGN LETTERS, in
Copper and Steel; sizes—s, 10, 12, 15 and
20in.
5. For WINDOW ADVERTISING LETTERS
in Brass, Copper or Aluminium —
TRY THE
KOH-I-NOOR AGENCY,
509 George-St., Sydney.
Telephone 744.
A GIFT ran the ladies.
:
-v ■
SS»Sf
*
Graceful and
becoming for Young
or Old.
Ostrich
Tips.
5/-
The Bunch,
Worth 10/6.
TWO VERY SUPERIOR TIPS, with
OSPREYS, in Black, White or Cream.
Post Free. Send Postal Notes.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Bourke & Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
NE URALCI als RESPONSIBLE . . .
for a great number of the careworn
faces so frequently met with both
in the city and country. All
neuralgic pains and headaches can
be speedily removed by taking
Newman’S SPECIAL NEURALGIA POWDER, 21-
By post, 2/2.
NEWMAN, CHEMIST, 82 King-street, Sydney.
POST
FREE
■ 1
■ft
19
■ ,
DUTY
FREE
A perfect
fit,
LONG
WEAR,
Certain
in
Every
Pair.
This is a very stylish Boot.
We have sizes varying so slightly
that we know we can fit your feet to a
nicety. We shall be pleased if you can
call and see this Boot; but if you live too
far away for that we can fill your order exactly
through our Mail Order Department, for this or
any other Boot or Shoe from stocks unequalled in the
Commonwealth for variety.
15/11; Pest Free and Duty Free, 16/6.
A thoroughly good reliable BUTTON BOOT, made of American glace-kid, with a dressy stylish
patent leather toe-cap. Wears well ; comfort assured.
CALLACHAN BOOTS or SHOES can be EXCHANGED if not correct.
Your Money RETURNED if you are not satisfied.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorce st., sydmey.


Banking. Public companies,
&o.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Secnrifrf
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
*s>
<&
■&>
bills
DISCOUNTED.
3xr.s,'wr.
(|]ont deplete o.s |.()o.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74.
SYDNEY #
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
'—'THE-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOC I ETY - LI M ITE D,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299-assunng £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of (forth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... * 250 000 ... £350,000
Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMITED. “
CAPITAL PAID-UP £451,307
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 181,859
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 56,000
£689,166
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B, Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
THE ...
lilT« ffIUTUm LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
Established 1879.
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection HUNTER, BLIOH and CASTLEREAGH
STREETS, SYDNEY.
The CITY MUTUAL LIFE is generally
recognised as the most liberal and pro-
gressive institution of its kind in Austra-
lasia. It retains on its books a larger
proportion of business than any other
Life Office doing business in these States,
CEO. CROWLEY,
General Manager.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver* Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street. Melbourne.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000. on City,
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Ocean
A ccident
and
G^iarantee
Co. JAd. of'London
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clynk ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlane ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital ... .. £2,500,000
GENTS.^
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE 1
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL J
Tyrian, Saturday, August IC, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra, Tuesday, Aug. 19,5 p. m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Aug. 23, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer Early.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer Early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Saturday, August 16, 2 p.m.
Buninyong, Tues., August 19, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, August 23, 2 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, August 10, 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, August 23, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
AFRIC, to Sail on or about 26th AUGUST.
SUEVIC, PERSIC, RUNIC, and MEDIC
to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l6 16 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 27 0 0
New York, Ac. .. '25 2 6 to 33 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
PampMets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, Parker & go’s Qine
MEI.ROUUN 15, TIOIJAKT,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
Pares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
EEC JM I ■“!
cr jxc-v
via
San Francisco,
California.
SPLENDID NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS,
SIERRA
SONOMA
VENTURA
Over 6000 Tons each.
8000 H.P.
Length, 425 feet,
Passengers booked through to American, Canadian and
European centres at current rates.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
... 2,000,000 0 0
... 1,285,000 0 0
... 2,000,000 0 0
Total ... „ _. 5,285,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Ciias. K. Mackbllar, M.L.0., President.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator James Thomas Walker.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Auditors:
A. G. Milson, Esq. Harrington Palmer, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
l»d^ etcs ;
««*?
p£
i’S
E»®W ttS ,
a v# alol fv es
a- $ «'»■
sf
m
FRINGES
Made of the Best Natural Curly Hair,
from 3s. 6d., ss. 6d., 7s. Gd., Bs. 6d.
to 10s. Od. each. j
;W. H, WIGZELL j
110 WILLIAM STREET,
§YDNEY.
PLAITS TAILS
long, ss, 6d.; 20in., extra thick,
7s. 6d.
22in., 10s. Gd.; 22in., extra thick, 12s. Gd.
2'iin., 15s. 6d.; 21in., extra thick, 18s. Gd.
26in., 205.; 26in., extra thick, 255.
28in., 305,; 30in.,355.; 30in., extra thick, 40s.
gs
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as thick as,
those sold elsewhere for the same money.
WIGS MADE TO ORDER.
HAXRWOEJK. OCXS' i'RKE TO OTHER STATES.
TIME TABLE.
three-weekly service.
3XT. X>. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Ade-
laide,
2 p.m.
Aug. 23
Sep. 13
Oct. 4
Oct. 25
Nov. 15
Dec. 6
Dec. 27
*Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
Interstate First Class Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, orM.M. Co. s.
TO SINGAPORE,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, NEW BRITAIN NEW
GUINEA, MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M . S . ST ETT IN, 3rd SEPTEMBER,
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney. 6
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAM LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
SPECIAL
ROUND THE WORLD
TOURS.
Saloon: £7l to £139.
STEAMERS SAIL:
Sept. 8, Oct. 6, Nov. 3.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
RUPTURE
OHHfIO
without
operation or pain,
Throw away
your Truss.
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses, The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
' SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., ENG.,
Cor Russell «. Collins Sts.,
MELBOURNE.
HIMSELF CURED
Mr. Robert E.
PABKHURST
vrnmrv y > says *t, an y sufferer from DEBILIXV
KIDNEY or BLADIJLK DISEASE will write him he will inform
them of the periect home cure that did the work in his case.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingat Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Warrego,
Friday, August 15.
S.S. Marloo
(From Melbourne),
Tuesday, Aug'usb 22.
BRISBANE
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairna
S.S. Innamineka,
Saturday, August, 16.
S.S. Warrego, Sat., Aug. 23.
S.S. Adelaide, Sat., Aug. 30.
nest ana Cheapest Iloute to GoltlfleUis.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A. C.S.N. Co. and Howard Smith Co.,
Ld. For Adelaide and W.A. all tiokets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YU ILL. & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
/-»• y - IN. V/OY. L_TD.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER 1.11^13.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and- COOKTOWN MAIL LINE -Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Twice weekly, via Bris-
___ *’ ane ’ Maryborough, and Bundaberg.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Norinanton.
SYPNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
via MELBOURNE—Fortnightly.
Vaasenuev A cconttnodcttion, A ttendunoe ctnd
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application,
ror Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Agents, 10 Bridge-
Agencies at all Australasian Porta
AND Q COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-lrnot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
. °" {he subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Mam Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
P.
JrAofeAUE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £77
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
.. Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific
Messageries Mantimes and N.D.L. Steamers havin'- room
EDWARD TRELAWNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUES, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows • -
i-ASSENGERS hooked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and Q
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room. ’
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen's Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney
R. BRASIKR DE THUY, Prinoipal Agent.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Through bookings to points in Canada, United States
of America and Europe at special rates.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
Lowest Fares and Freights.
For further information apply to
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents!
37 Pitt-street, Sydney-
. . SMOKE. .
df
Taii
gs
GBD
X
&
INSIST
on having this Brand
and no other,
Largest Depot:
231 CLAR€NC€ STR€€T,
SYDNEY.


it Silvertail ” on a penal matter :
The Bulletin (12/7/’O2) slated Judges Backhouse and
rJckerfor making foolish addresses to convicted prisoners
nf the “respectable” class, and then ending up by giving
?hem the Ximum sentence. But why should the unfor-
tunate “Silvertail ” get the limit? In nine cases out of
ten the “respectable” man falls through financial dis-
honesty He has greater temptation because his know-
ledge suggests to him greater opportunities and less
risk If he is pushed for money, he must need ten
Hmes more will-power than the common crook to
resist temptation. Then one month’s confinement to the
“ SUvertai'l” man, who is generally hypersensitive, equals
six months to the ordinary criminal who, even if he is a
“ first-timer ” here has probably been “ in ” somewhere
else. And the “ Silvertail’s ” family perhaps suffers a little
more than the common “ crooks.”
rOn the other side ; if the educated man has greater
temptation of opportunity he is (or should be) also better
armed bv his education to resist temptation . if the
“ Silvertail ” has a greater chance of avoiding detection
bv his cleverness, that is a strong reason why, when
detected, he should get an extra heavy punishment,
followin''' a well-known and logical principle of law ; as to
the fine feelings of culprits, the law shouldn t take fine
feelings into account at all, for how can it gauge them,
unless by the very unsatisfactory way of holding that
Balbus the bricklayer is necessarily a common rough
person and Nero the Emperor a gentleman of most
refined feelings?—Ed. 8.l _
Nervous sufferers will find ifc worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
33 of this issue *
-
RAMEY’S MEDIC A TOR
For the Treatment of Catarrh. Hay Fever,
Bronchitis, Influenza, Catarrhal
Deafness, etc,
Medlcator, with complete treat -
meat, only IDI-, post free.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY
229,231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
dfg
■■
DEAF
L Sufferers from Deafness or Head Noises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
i should write to 'I he L. R. VERNON CO.
| GO HUNTER ST., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet desc ibing an entirely new self-
applied method which we will send post
free oil mentioning this paper.
7S
Dr. J. W. GIBBS’
. . Electric Massage Rollers . .
For use on Face and Body.
For NERVOUS HEADACHES,
NEURALGIA and RHEUMATISM
—a specific. Removes Wrinkles.
Gold, 21/- Silver, 16/-
Post Free. Pamphlets Free.
AMERICAN AGENCY COMPANY,
Box 440, G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
THE CARE of the HAIR
“ ]y[y hair is grey, but not with years ; so
says Byron, and how applicable this is to many of
us who are distressed by personal and business
worries. Still no trouble ever yet obtained for
which some relief has not been found.
The hair is one of Nature’s adornments and
should not be neglected ; proper attention snou c
be given to its preservation, just as you find it
necessary to attend to any "physical ailment.
•4
CAPILLA
HAIR TONIC
is the result of
a very careful
study, and the
Proprietor’s
object is to give
to the public
something of a
medicinal na-
ture, rather
than the use-
less perfume
which consti-
tutes many so-
called hair re-
storers.
MISS NELLIE .jaEWART, the popular and
beloved actress, writes me as follows : —“ Sydney,
July 19th, 1902. Mr. W. Richards, Proprietor,
Capilla Hair Tonic. Dear Sir,— During ray pro-
fessional career I have tried many hair tonics 1 in
many parts of the world;’ by chance I came
across your ‘ Capilla, ’ and I have found it to be
the most refreshing and invigorating hair tonic I
know, and shall always be pleased to recommend it.
“ Yours, very faithfully,
“NELL. E. STEWART.”
CAPILLA HAIR TONIC is stocked by all
Chemists and Storekeepers —2s. Gd. per Bottle.
W. OLIVER RICHARDS, Proprietor,
City Bank Chambers, IG4 Pitt-street, Sydney.
CAPILLA SKIN SOAP, an excellent remedy
for all Skin Troubles—ls. per tablet.
BUSHMAN WATCH
sd
w
fgs
dg
v-'
LADIES.
WHITE FOE VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne
Address—L.D.
1
Allan's
Australian Music Books
s c,
C/>
C<v<
H,
Sold by all Music Sellers in Australasia-
Allan a Co. pt> lto .276-278 collins st.. Melbourne
pirns
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 10D Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos.
ss. P.O.C. or stamps.
Pries 6d., Postage B<J.
S. RECKNACEL NAGHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Germany.
FOR ACETYLENE GAS
a
“ WE ARE
THE PEOPLE.”
Over 300 of our Reliable
i Acetylene Gas Genera-
tors in daily use, and all
giving satisfaction.
We also supply Table,
Portable, Street, and
other Lamps for Acety-
lene Gas and all accesso-
ries.
We carry large stocks of
Carbide of Calcium.
Send for our No. 56
Acetylene Gas Catalogue
Martin’s Advance Acetylene Table Lamp. Price £1 7s. 6d.
James MARTIN & CO.,
161 Clarence Street,
Nr. King-st., Sydney.
SUN-PROOF . . .
INDNSO SERIES
• . AND . .
TWEE PS- —»
To stand Hard Wear.
FaoCY 'Worsted SGitiOgS
(Bannockburns and Homespuns).
David Braham & Co.,
TAILORS & OUTFITTERS
73 & 75 KING ST., SYDNEY
(round A.J.S. Bank corner).
! SOLE AGENTS in N.S.W. for
I VERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR SHIRTS . .
j White or Colored Shirts, made to order, from 5/6
LINE —AII-Wool Sweaters, 4/6, 5/6 and6/6
Compare our Prices.
ON OUR
SELECTION,”
By STEELE RUDD.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS.
CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
PRICE 4s. 6d.; POSTAGE 6d.
Sole Distributing Agents —
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
The Bulletin Reciter:
By Eighty (80) ards.
T. Fisch
A. J. Fischer,' F. Leist, D. H. Souter, and H. McGrae.
decorated. Price, 55.; postage, 4d.
With Illustrations by Lind^.
In handsome
ELECTRICITY
You can be stronger than you
are. You should be stronger. You
should have more confidence in
yourself. Steel your nerves with
electricity. Yeel its warming glow
saturate your body with new life.
Important Melbourne Testimony.
Rheumatic Cout of Two Years’ Standing.
Mr. J. WHITHORN, 24 0 Shed, Victoria Markets,
Melb!, writes “ Just a few lines to inform you that
the Belt I got from you about a month ago, has
simply worked WONDERS, after two years suffering.
Since wearing the Belt I have been entirely free from
pain ; and all the stiffness seems leaving me, and I am
convinced that by continuing its use I shall be quite
cured. Any sceptical people you can refer to me.
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S
■ ' ' ,
I I '
o'v>»i h^siUJ/;
U/,
\v
J/;,
//
Vs
mm
U "V£ A
V\
NORTHERN I Illllli
Territory ij Queen^laS
At %frM N -s-w
Aus
VICTOR*
PoptE
s\
/
\ \ S
V \
I / >
[U '
IS
Have you lost the fire and strength of youth? Have
you “come and go” pains in your back and shoulders?
or any other of
breaking down of your nerves and vitality you will find
new life in electricity as applied while you sleep.
LETTER FROM QUEENSLAND.
LAME BACK AND DEBILITY.
Marine Department,
nu r I rgi! I.I N Co Edward Street. Brisbane.
Dear Sbs-It gives n.e great pleasure to answer
vour letter just received, as my health '™Proved
verv much since I have been wearing the Electric
Belt I received from you. I sleep well at
feel refreshed in the morning and ready for work.
The pains in my back have entirely left me, as has
also the sense of weariness I used to feel. I am
wetting stronger in body and nerve, thanks to your
wonderful Belt, and I would not part with it £5O
if it were impossible to get another.
my expectations. JOHJN EIJNU.
CTRIC BELT
AND FRE
SUSPENSORY
Used as we direct will effect permanent cures in cases we
claim to cure, but it is not one of those
wonderful NEW METHODS whereby the Undertaker is forced to take down his sign and go out
of business. Our Belt is a certain cure for all NerVG Ailments, Weak BaC > I
Indigestion, Insomnia, Rheumatism, Scia ica, Lumbago, Dragging
removes Varicose Veins, and restores Vigor. It requires no Drug assistance.
Sensation. It
jurious stimulating druers.
chest, and
full of in-
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
CAUTION.
When you use our Electric Belt you don’t need any
DRUGS at a great additional expense. Our Electric
Belt is the only one bearing Australian Patent Rights.
-a sioS
symptoms of your weakness disappearing as if by magic.
Write for Free Book.
To the men or women who want to regain their health, who want to feel like they did before
HESS «3
SteSTrShtSoul if you will »end. If you ore not » well *, yon ought to be, tend
ka- it to-day.
C onsultation axxci Advice
jtrree.
If you are close enough to call, do so, and we will gladly give you a free personal test. You
don’t have to buy because you call. We don’t want merely curious people but if you are ailmg,
the few minutes it takes to satisfy yourself will be time well spent. Hours9a.m. to B.do p.m.
the dr. McLaughlin co
85 KING- STREET, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE OFFICE—I67E SWANSTON STREET.


RED BIRD BICYCLES
A\ e hold all lecords and have won all the most important Races on Road and Path for years.
r%r\r\i i> diavoi ? Write and we’ll tell you.
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64King Street, Sydney.
Kipling’s aunt, Lady Burne-Jones, is a
pro-Boer, and when the news of Peace came she
hoisted over her residence at Rottingdean a black
flag inscribed in white letters: “We have killed
and also conquered.”
; A Tory politician, put hard to the question
t’other night, could only instance one thing which
had certainly deteriorated in N.S.W. politics
since the advent of the Labor party—the whisky.
The spirits supplied at Parliament House are
certainly poor, but the politicians, whether from
abstinence or from lack of cultivated taste, don’t
complain. Reporters, however, refuse to suffer
in silence.
The postal chiefs in Melbourne are just
now grappling with a question raised by some
unknown miscreant in Java. The officials pride
themselves on the certainty of their delivering a
letter, provided the address is at all legible, but
the sender of the missive has so far baffled them.
It is addressed, ‘‘ To the richest man in Mel-
bourne, Australia.” As it is probably a begging
letter none of Melbourne’s plutocrats rush to
claim it.
The big-drum party has scored another
triumph. At Gunnedah (N.S.W.) an elderly man
arose in the intoxication of the red jersey and the
hysteria of the blaring cornet and the greasy
torch, and declared that he had committed two
minders in Queensland 28 years ago (bones
are hard to find after 28 years), and killed
another man 10 years ago (even after 10
years the skeleton is generally beyond identifica-
tion). Ihe 28 year-old bodies were burned, and
their ashes have probably blown to Guam by
y l . oW ’J lnc ' khe 10-year-old corpse was tipped into
the Warrego river, so its present address should
now be South Pacific Ocean generally. Salvation
Army confessions are an interesting study. The
converts rise one by one to tell what bad charac-
ters they were before they were converted, and the
man who was the worst sinnergets the biggest round
ol applause. The individual with no big sins gets
no applause. It is painful to hear a comparatively
respectable person, who never did anything bad
in his unregenerate days, trying, to arouse a shud-
der by telling how he used to neglect his wife and
speak unkindly to. the house-cat when he came
home at night, while the red congregation looks
at him m stony approval. Sometimes a perfectly
harmless individual loses his head and begins to
invent sins for the effect of a little fleeting popu-
‘anty. Ihe confessions of the converts are the
Army s principal dissipation, its Newgate Calen-
dar, its Police Gazette, its Chamber of Horrors,
its visit to the morgue, its moral drunk generally’
And when the man with three dead bodies on his
sou is only eclipsed in popularity by the man
with four dead bodies, the natural result is that
the man who is responsible for five dead bodies
may turn up any time.
N.S.W. is beginning to take place as one of the
d^ffl T 1 I ? ro ' lucers - At present there is a certain
lack of official check on the export of gems throu"h
I Tn a Up l ßA B in ei i.T < l eSpafcched per registered letter, but it
is alleged that last year somewhere about £500,000 worth
diamonds were exported. Most of them came
from the Boggy Camp mines. The Australian diamond is
T! m n har f er t han the product and on
cutters r,f'iV laS m een s ° orned and rejected by the hand
cutters of the old world, and passed on to such as mate
h rd°, n H dn I s ’ S?' But if the Australian diamond is
This »rf„ri h ta A l rlCa " ltls also seve ral times brighter.
Ro Ws .f lo°i k , ed ? a pinfc or two at Messrs- Fairfax and
Roberts of 23 Hunter-street, Sydney, other day, and thf y
fronnd of th * Spray ° f “S?** fire a » ainst the white back
f °L the , pa S er on . wh ;eh they were spread. Against
f, < arp ground they scintillated like stars as seen from
Ws a sed P fts k hP«?’°“i - fe6 l hig : h Where Par l«s’s poem
kissed its best girl in the night. Messrs. Fairfax and
The e fact th Ve t th 6 ge “ S -p Ut by steam -driven machinery
the siw« h L b *£ e ™ a t orifc y. of lapidaries cannot handle
the stones has kept the price in the rough state down
considerably, and the consequence is that in the Hunter-
menfca ® sta blishment diamond rings and personal orna-
ments of rare beauty can be obtained at much less than
is charged for much inferior S’African gems *
At the Top of the Ladder of Success.
’/C
It is a laudable
ambition to reach the
top of the ladder of
success. Many a man
who reaches the top-
most. rung finds his
position a torment
instead of a triumph.
He has sacrificed bis
health to success.
Many a man who
succeeds at the price
of his health, finds
when he reaches the
top, that there is loss
of appetite, ringing in
the ears, dizziness,
spots before the eyes,
or palpitation of the
heart. Any or all of
these symptoms point
to weakness and loss
of health.
Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills cure diseases
of the stomach, and
other organs of diges-
tion perfectly and posi-
tively, and enable them to distribute the
nourishment to every organ of the body. They
enable the co-operation of all the organs to pre-
serve the perfect health of the body. This
is the strong and reliable testimony of Mr.
Arthur Smith, of Messrs Smith and King, Ident
Merchants, Sydney, and well-known through-
out Australasia, His testimony should carry
weight:— Having suffered for the last five
years from indigestion, rheunatism and nervous
debility, and after trying t everal doctors, also
other remedies, without obtaining any benefit I
secured a bottle of Hr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
After taking them for a few days I felt great
relief, and after a course of six bottles I am happy
to testify that I am in perfect health, and can
strongly recommend them to anyone suffering as
1 was. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are put up
in amber bottles and the full name blown thereon,
and are sold by' all dealers throughout
Australasia.
Hardy’s
Tintara Wines
Absolutely Pure;
Adelaide:
CURRIE STREET
Fully Matured;
Melbourne;
COLLIWS STREET
700 Medals, etc.
Sydney:
GROSVENOR STREET
SPORTING NOTIONS.
V.R.C. produced an
course. The Flemineton t*™, & o es f Remington race-
—is a thing which thfn P J »t7 3s ‘ l° r a ? rst ' class return
piisiiSHS
S^rSS“4^
Esr&jsrs; a ytsa,'
tox a,l leviecl ll upon ;^^lie io puMic^ >^e in^^h^ C fl^ > T‘^ wa y
the people who travelDWho 1 thlS fle i cln S of
t DePt ‘ a f" d the v - R -O a . C a C r°e Ur aniesf < The
the P dim b past-Mv^ S firt f a K r t ei ?? nt that da tes back to
club’s share nf P ?hf p ®,‘ fclcket to the racing club. The
“ under nressure I’’ 1 ’’ nS, lUnd^ r V the chairm an admitted
~!.i ■ p ?, ssure > amounts to £2OOO a vear Therefore
I ticket" the h ßanw Ual ° ve, ; cl ! 0,1 80.000 tickets at 2s.’
the V R*P oil fhoa e has practically been saying* to
£BOOO that f = 636 ye Y S : You kee P Ouiet about the
u S( l l ueeze from your customers, and we will
Now that nB the° U i b w e • fi2ooo ,. that y° u make out of it"
become h^ener»]l^v bS oompiicdy in the extortion has
to y kn °wn.it will abandon its claim to the
down y * °" condltl °n that the Dept, brings fares
* * * -
Ihe success of the Albert Miller colors reached
a climax at Caulfield on Saturday when Colonel Shilinski
amJError ran first and second for the big Steeplechase
S'"S succeeds like success. The Colonel that Mr'.
Miller bought with his Rawdon winnings at Flemington
and ? d V.A T O. “ double "and become the
head of the jumping stable. Also Mooney, by riding
u« r d °7 Whl :, n .S 1C b f afc t h e Colonel, and the Colonel when
he smothered Rawdon has deepened the conviction that
he practically represents a 71b. advantage to any horse he
fr e nt n u e u ln V mrdle or steeple. Kiota, the likely one
p.°“;^ al ! i ara t> >mt nearer to Error this time than at
ftfmm?ton startlng at 14 to 1 KioU flnlshed a re .
spectable third whilst Royal Mail, his stable companion
(4 to 1), was whipping the field in.
* * * *
. Shilinski’s rider, jock M. Mooney, by win-
ning V.R.C. and Y.A.T.O. G.N. Hurdles in one year, has
equalled performances of Scobie (’B2), Batty (’B3). Fer-
guson ( 85), and Brewer (’95).
* * » *
„ Just2o years since Left Bower won first Caul-
• u Steeple. Then j'ourney was 2£m., and 140sovs.,
with added sweepstake, formed the inducement. Dis-
tance was extended to 4m. in ’B7. Money increased to
±5OO, and a year later it doubled, when winner and second
—Eaglet and Mernder—came from same stable (Mr. S
Miller s), as was the case in latest struggle. One'of the finest
performances seen on any racecourse happened in Caul-
held Chase of ’9l, when Redleap (13.12 up, and backed
down to 6 to 4) practically won all the way, piloted by
then amateur Mr. W. S. Cox. Dondi’s year (’94) saw
Tommy Corrigan ride his last race. Nine of 11 that lined
up m ’97 fell. All records for the race were broken by
Arcadia last year, when the trip was negotiated in 8.9.
* * ♦ *
Apropos Caulfield G.N. ’Chases. Absolute first
favorites have only won 6. of the 21 contested, and 19
winners have been aged prads. Only mare ever successful
was Bnfcomarfce, in ’97. Late Tommy Corrigan had three
winning mounts, and Paddy M‘Gowan and Jim Scobie
two each. Hottest favorite that ever succeeded was
Martin Loughlin’s Game, which faced the flag at evens.
*'* * *
Derby colt Strata Florida, at the top of Melb.
Cup prices and already well backed, did not do at all well
when seen but a couple of times lately. In one race,
Strata Florida was third to the favorite, Scobie’s Bon
Voyage. Strata figured again, Saturday last, in Malakoff
Stakes, and, though he ran well, his stable-chum Seclu-
sion won ; all of which means that, unless S.F. comes on
a lot and does something acceptable soon, he’ll drop con-
siderably in the Derby and Cup quotations. Seclusion’s
success was noteworthy, for behind her were Footbolt,
Kinglike, Ampier, and other good ones. She is a six-
year-old mare, by Carnage from The Nun, and belongs to
Mr. J. Wilson, jun. Her first race was last season, and
then wins were scored at Maribyrnong, Mentone and Bal-
larat. Seclusion has 6.13 in Caulfield and 6.8 in Melbourne
Cups.
* * * *
Extraordinary ill-luck of Sydney nag T.M.S.
owned until last week by bookie Oxenham, has set turf
scribes suggesting an alteration in the prad’s name—the
initials of a close friend of Oxy’s—a lawyer who was
a politician and at one time chairman of Sydney Tatts
Peculiarity of T.M.S.’s racing is the remarkable con-
sistency with which he runs second. Good, bad or in-
different company is the same to him. Oxy dropped a
fortune on T.M.S. and the bejewelled one has no more
fruitful source of revenue, for every second points to the
likelihood of a sure success next time, particularly when
the opposition doesn’t seem so dangerous, but the result
is invariably the same. Last week T.M.S. ran second to
Winoline at Moorefield and a few days later money went
on him in stacks and this time he struggled home—
another second—close behind Patronage.
A largely hypocritical inquiry, by the House of
Lords (of all people !), re the bearings of the Betting Evil
has resulted in a memorandum to the effect that betting
“ ought to be restricted to the actual scene of racing and
athletics.” In short, the committee of noble earls has
unintentionally advocated the totalisator on racecourses
for the relief of the large army of infatuated punters.
Tom, Dick, and Harry, under present conditions, lose
about 40 per cent, of their annual aggregate investments
to Ikey Mo, whereas they would lose not more than 7A
Eer cent., or 10 per cent, at the most, to the respectable
etting machine. Also, the temptation to bet with illicit
books “ in town ” would be reduced, if not abolished, by
the discovery that Ikey was an absurd robber compared
with the tote. Therefore Ikey would, in a great measure
perish for want of business, and thus the temptation to
punt, punt, punt would be further reduced. But the
House of Lords has nob begun to think of the Betting
Evil as an argument in favor of the tote.
* * * ,
If a mare is to win Caulfield Cup this year
handicapper Dakin must surely fancy the chance of
Verne. In his estimate, she is entitled to 7.7 over two
miles, whilst his rival, Kelly, gives her the postage-stamp
of 6.12, with half-a-mile less to travel. A rising six-year-
old daughter of Bill of Portland from She, the staying-
power should be there. Though mares are generally
kittle cattle in Oct. and Nov., it looks as if the
V.R.O. man is giving the public a tip for the first leg of
the double. Events will prove if the cute Kelly or
veteran Dakin is the better prophet.
* * * •
Judged by the way he closed on Warwick Farm
Handicap, Saturday, Patronage is more than a possibility
for coming Metrop. or one or other of the two big Cups
He has 8.2 in the Metrop., 8.3 in the Caulfield, and 8 2 in
the Melbourne Cup. Prior to the latest, Patronage had
two wins to his credit—Rosehill August Handicap and
Newcastle Mayor’s Cup ; he also ran a good second when
San Fran annexed the Metrop., and should have won but
for bad luck. Patronage is by Grand Flaneur, and full
brother to those sterling gallopers Ruenalf, Patron and
Patroness,
* * * ' *
Maoriland turf statistics for year just closed •
St. Leger won £11,327, Seaton Delaval £10,345 ; Stepn’iak
tails up with £7527, and Clanronald £6OOO. Barring
playing second to Hotchkiss in 1889-90, St. Leger has
come out best for eight successive seasons. For eight
successive years Stead’s winning® are understood to have
totalled somewhere about £50,000.
* * * *
S.A. Parliament is asked to repeal, in case of
large and bona-fide clubs, the existing law which will not
allow (outside of Adelaide) two clubs to exist (or to use
the totahsator, which is the same thing in practice)
within 20 miles of each other in a straight line. The rule
works very hardly in one or two cases that come just
within it, where the distance by road is well over the 20.
A clause tacked on to this Bill seeks to allow book-
makers once more to bet in public, though only on a
racecourse and when the tote is actually at work.
L. LITTLECHILD, Winner of the Dunlop
Road Race (Goulburn to Sydney).
Photo, by Falk, George-street, Sydney.
The keen struggle for places on S. A. Jockey
Club committee was astonishingly close at the finish.
Veteran Ben Rounsevell was dropped, but got 76 votes,
and the other four were all between 80 and 82. W. Pile
was head of the poll, S. J. Jacobs one vote behind, Harry
Bickford and Hugh Dixson, M.P., tied at 80, and chairman
Baker gave a casting vote tor the former, as the old mem-
ber. Thus Jacobs, president of Tattersall’s, is the only
new member.
<< * * * *
“ Tattersall ” Adams declares that the Sydney
combination that shifted him was the bookmaker and the
paison ; in Brisbane it was the parson and the brewer.
JNow the three have joined to make the Oommonwealth
Government the catapult wherewith to fire stones at the
scapegoat. Mr. Adams says he doesn’t go to church,
trinity’ k aS consc^en^ous scru Ples regarding this new
* * * *
Adelaide R.C. meeting at Victoria Park, Satur-
day, drew a big gate, but tote business, compared with
same day last year, fell off £l6OO, only £9013 going
through this time. Thirteen lined up for S.A. Grand
National Chase. Favorite, Confidence, well placed from
flag tall, scored easily. First two-year-old race of the
season was appropriated by St. Vincent, a colt by Carlyon
hjfay .^ ons > arK * fall brother to Troubridge, who suc-
ceeded in same event last year. St. Vincent started at
twos and won in a canter.
* * * *
Acceptances for big turf things of coming spring
iiw, e A o "A y, j Saw 38 fafa * n Epsom and 42 in Metrop.
onw .includes a good percentage of first rank nags.
Of 170 original entrants, 130 remain in Melbourne Cup,
but from 190 .names in Caulfield Cup list, 66 have been
eliminated up to date. General entries for A. J.O. Spring
meet were received on the same day and exceeded last
T att > Club August (one day) meet-
ing attracted 144 nominations.
* * m *
Amongst The permits granted to ride in the
TTtu c, Steeplechase at Rosehill this Saturday is
NS°w sfff ° n B ° n To ?V Thin 0s > n0 doubt, explains
from politics 6 Premier ’ John See ’ s rumored retirement
* • • *
T.M.S. Oxenham’s horse, named after his
solicitor-friend should, in view of his recent perform-
ances, be known in the future as “Two Many Seconds.”
* * * *
Jockey W. Hart rode the winner of every race
on the programme at Wagga last Saturday.
* * » *
Flourishing Kalgoorlie Race Club’s Autumn
meet opened Saturday with a 6000 attendance. First
takings will go near covering exes, for all three;
£B7OO (from which the club gathers 10 per cent, and
P assef ! through the machine, and Mo disgorged
£l5OO for the privilege of battling with the tote at that
gathering only. Which goes to show how the hook-nosed
sized up prospects, and that there’s evidently still heaps
of coin in the West. 1
• * « •
First news of fifth test-match (Australia v. Eng-
land) this tour at Kennington Oval is awaited as The
Bulletin goes to press. Though the rubber already
belongs to Australia, interest is keen.. English side chosen
differs from that of immediately preceding test. Hay-
ward, .Jessop and Hirst supplant Abel, Tate and Ranji.
Inclusion of first-named two looks like strengthening
the position, but substitution of Jessop for the
Indian is unaccountable, unless it is that
latter has fallen off in county matches lately,
for, inside a month since, he had the batting average over
Trumper, which made him top-notcher for the season up
to then. Kennington hasn’t been a lucky venue for Aus-
tralians, as of 9 tests decided there they’ve only won one
(by 7 runs in 82), two were drawn, and six went England-
wards Apropos, it’s worth dwelling on that the two
men (f ry and Hirst), whose non-inelusion among Mac-
laren s lot caused his team to be flubbed, in some quarters
unrepresentative, haven’t been over-much in demand for
tests—particularly Fry.
* * * *
, was ever any idea of bringing out
another Maclaren team this year it has been wisely aban-
doned. More likely that Lord Hawke’s team will take
Australia on its way home from Maoriland, and play
matches in Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide.
* * * m
. AvSu 6 ?*? fro** l Adelaide:—“On Sunday morn-
ing, 27th July, John Hill (father of Clem) and some of his
family were seated in Pirie-st. Methodist Church. The
congregation had settled down to enjoy the sermon and
fl Wll iu S, ™ hen th S, verger hurriedly entered with a note
*X om , ('fa Tiser office. John Hill read, and a holy smile
of satisfaction lit up his face as he passed the note along
the Rubber ” aSh6S W6re safe ‘ Australia had won
* * * *
• A u , stralians had an easy-thing last week against
K>.nt forces of second-class counties Glamorganshire and
utshire. First day saw two completed innings, when
home combination notched 121 and visitors 148. Next
effort of the Englishmen produced 178 and the 152 neces-
sary to win was accumulated by the Australians at a cost
of only four wickets. Gregor}' made 44, and Trumble 31.
• * * *
Match Australia v. Hampshire, last week, was
unexpectedly soft for former through Hampshire’s ill-
luck. Play was limited to two days. Hampshire opened
on a treacherous wicket that became faster while the
Australians batted ; then just as the home side started
out to score in its second innings rain necessitated
stopping for some time. Result was that Australia accu-
mulated 325, towards which Darling brought 116 and
Noble 113, while Hampshire’s figures were first 130 and
next 116. Australs. thus won by an innings and 79 runs.
Hampshire shaped a heap better against the ’99 team.
Scoring 393 in first essay, the county declared its
second closed at 6 for 212. Australia responded with 360
and three wickets for 92.
* * * *
There haven’t been many more remarkable
games of football than one that was played lately—an
Association match —at S. Broken Hill. A terrific dust-
storm was blowing, a bad one even for the Barrier, where
there has been only ljin. rain in ten months ! Several
times the ball was lost; and when the one in play went
out another was thrown to the umpire, while a pack of
small boys groped round in the grime for the first one.
Once a goal was kicked with the wrong ball; and another
time an agile wing player scudded round under the lee
of a particularly dense wall of moving sheep-station and,
after calling the umpire over to witness it, kicked a goal,
while the rest of the field were crying “ lost ball.” There
weren’t many lunatics out to witness the game ; those
that there were followed the ruck up and down, which
was their only chance of seeing anything.
* * * *
S.A.-Victoria toe-ball struggle, on Melbourne
Cricket Ground, Saturday, drew 8000. S.A. reps., true to
their reputation, played a fine, fast, open game and
passed with great skill. Occasionally Victoria appeared
completely outclassed, particularly in the early part of
the second half, and at one stage S.A. had 10 goals 6
behinds to the home side’s 5 goals 4 behinds. In the last
quarter Victoria, by a big effort, scored so well that S.A.
only won with 10 goals 8 behinds to 9 goals 6 behinds.
« « .
In reply to “R.J.” (Q.) The Rugby ball is
oval-shaped, the round one is the British Association ball.
* * * •
“Sharkey, so signally defeated by Ruhlin, the
Dutchman, at the N. 5.0.,” writes Tub Bulletin’s London
correspondent, “ only fought in sheer revenge. He hates
the stone-heavier and 6in. taller fighter, and-showed the
‘ tears of warlike men ’ in the dressing-room. The Sailor
Boy put up a rushing, plucky fight, but the long left
jabbing told its tale, and the better boxer won. The
vanquished is said to be worth at least 100,000dols. and a
flourishing N.Y. saloon, behind the counter of which he
should now stay.”
« * . .
Bruising bustle between Paddy Martin and ex-
Broken Hill miner Mat. Mitchie, at Sydney Golden Gate
t other day, was a promiscuous maul of 14 rounds.
Martin was a whirling cyclone. He rushed head-
l°nK &na forced Mitchie to the ropes or the floor, or went
there himself, while the audience alternately shook with
laughter and screeched with excitement. Each, stoutly-
made, strong, and well-conditioned, stood the crash
without flinching, Martin doing all the roughing, while
Mitchie had his work cut out stopping the other’s mad
rushes with either shoulder or hip, and driving in a punch
as opportunity offered. While swinging in the fifth
round, he fractured his left hand on Martin’s bonv elbow
and, forgetting the occurrence, used the same member
again in the same way, and suffered another break. Still
Mitchie struggled, always on the defensive now, till he
found the task hopeless and caved in. It was
Paddy Martin who gave the late Otto Cribb the
toughest fight of his career, when Cribb was serving up a
sensation weekly, buc then Martin brought a bigger stock
of force and vim to bear, and was more effective than
against Mitchie.
* • * *
Australia’s lightweight pug premier, twice
married' Jack M'Gowan, is falling off some, and may go
under if he stays in the game a bit longer. Last three
. 8 saw a .U ou ti with success anything but assured
till it actually did come. Frazer made things uncomfort-
ably hot in his two battles ; and Palmer, last week, was
unquestionably best till a weighty left lifted him clean
from the perpendicular to the horizontal. . Palmer
made the mistake of taking too many chances
by forcing the game from the outset, but
will probably act differently, and consequently
do much better, when they get together again. Mean-
while, M'Gowan has to tackle another tough task in the
Sydney lad, “Rbllo,” as tricky as they make them, and
the owner of a head that sizes up things, and ducks out
of danger automatically. To win, the champion will have
to fight hard. M'Gowan fought Oolless of Albury (NSW)
12 or 13 years ago, and, seeing him now, the dad of two
families, 'tis simply marvellous how he keeps going.
* * • *
Sydney featherweight “Hock” Keys dealt out
stoush to Melbourne’s alleged bantam champ., Harry
North, at Sydney Gaiety A. O. last week. North hung on
hoping to wear t’other down or get one on the right spot
but Keys faded away too smartly and fended too well.
Keys left shore through North’s defence straight for his
nose, which early assumed a claret color and a flattened-
out- appearance that stayed. Once a right uppercut
flashed out and Keys flopped, but bounced back in-
stanter and was pouring out biff immediately. In the
fourth round a couple of rights on the body and head
spread-eagled North for longer than 10sec., and for once
the more skilful man won.
• * » *
Saturday last, in London, Dick Cavill won the
British Half-mile supremacy in 11.50 2-ssec., with his
fellow-countryman, George Read, lm. 5 3-ssec. behind,
third equivalent, at that stage, to somewhere about 70
or 80 yards. Oavill’s time is claimed as a world’s record
and so it is under conditions existent “down under”
which call for still water unaffected by current or tide
and at least furlong laps ; but in February last, at Wan-
ganm (M.L.), with 25 yard laps, Oavill put up llmin. Bsec.
which, seeing that he “shoved off” at every turn isn’t
quite as good as his English achievement. His second (by
3 seconds) to Billington in the 500 yards championship of
England a few weeks back, when he traversed the journey
in 6.28 2-ssec., was the speediest swim Dick ever got
through, and 6 3-ssec. faster than the prior world’s best
Next came his defeat by a touch for the sprint cop-
notchership in 60sec., which squelched all previous per-
formances. Pity, seeing the excellent form Oavill is in
just now, that there are only two more blue-ribbon events
fc ? b ® 1 e ® 1 ? ed —the 220 and 240 yards—both of which
should fall to him unless his compatriot Lane proves too
quick over the shorter journey.
* * * *
• i' a f t wee k biggest meeting of bowlers ever held
m Sydney decided against divisional electorate bowls—
they weren’t having any restrictions ; and this in face of
fact that a majority of bowling delegates had previously
approved the scheme. Strangely enough a like proposition
was before a general meeting of swimmers on the follow-
ing night under precisely similar conditions—their dele-
gates too had favored the idea but the general body
wouldn t have it at any price.
* • * v
Victorian rifleman Grummett’s win of the
Service Rifle Association Cup with 79 out of a possible 80
was an excellent performance. The score must be made
in eight shots at 300 and 600yds., and event is re-
stricted to members of National Rifle Association. Last
year saw 922 compete for the 95 prizes, worth £250 and
more competed this year. Grummett went to England
as a free lance. °
* * * *
Lacrosse people have wasted years vainly trying
to make public 'thuse over their game, though
lacrosse flourishes, within limits, in other States Pre-
sence of Victorian and S.A. players in Sydney last week
made no difference—oniy poo r “gates” resulted. How
n ? u< ™ jWn ea t-Staters are above Cornstalks was demon-
strated when former notched 26 goals to nil (which equals
the Australian record), showing marked superiority in
every department. Three days later (Saturday) S. A. and
vie. gave the finest exhibition of lacrosse seen in Svdnev
and former won, 7—5. J 9
Recently deceased Sydney fat stock salesman,
Mr. J. G. Maiden, was, just 10 years back, when Australa-
sian athletics were at their best, among this continent’s
fore-front athletes. He first gathered in the club
supremacy of Darlinghurst Harriers, since merged into
East Sydney district club. Later, he closed on 100 yards
supremacies of Victoria and N.S.W. J.G.M. was short,
thick-set, and a natural sprinter. Bright’s disease is said
to have caused his death.


BUTTER BY POST
A boon to residents of the back country, where butter is scarce or
unobtainable. Parcels containing from 21bs. to lOlbs. of our CELEBRATED
“ GOLDEN STAR ” BUTTER despatched regularly, packed in special card-
board boxes, at SYDNEY RETAIL RATES, plus postage. Remittance should
accompany order. Ask for a catalogue of our other HOME NECESSARIES.
THE N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., Ltd., SYDNEY.
A
NOTICE TO CYCLISTS.
WE have just landed a new and unique BICYCLE BELL, which is the finest of its kind
ever imported into Australia. It is a stationary top, continuous ringing, push-
button Bell, exceptionally clear toned, being made of finest bell-metal. It has an embossed
top, with the
Jt AUSTRALIAN FLAG, In Colors, j* J*
with red and blue grounds. These Bells are the finest of their kind landed in this country, and
should appeal to the patriotism of riders.
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR CO., Ltd.,
357 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches in every State.
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
BUY A
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel. . .
Hammerless Gun.
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept in stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington Arms Company,
Hkad Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 ios. to £is.
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free.
McLEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
J. J. MILLER’S SPORTING PUBLICATIONS.
J. J. MILLER’S ANNUAL
Sporting F*amplxlot
. . ON . .
MELBOURNE and CAULFIELD CUPS.
Price, Is. (postage, 2d. extra.
J. J. MILLER’S HALF-YEARLY
Racing Ch.roniole.
Vol. XIV.
Containing the whole of the Racing in Australasia
to July 31. Price, 10s.
J. J. MILLBR PRINTING CO., POST OFFICE PLACE, MELBOURNE.
SAN DOW’S —-
Patent Sprinc-Grip Dumb-Bells.
The Greatest Invention of the
Age for producing Perfect
Health and Strength.
Increased and Proportionate
Development. Marvellous
Results.
p
BEFORE'
USING
A pleasure to use, and adapted to the requirements of both sexes, of all ages,
Chart enclosed with each Set.
Sandow’s Embrocation.
THE BEST IN THE MARKET.
Invaluable to Cyclists, Cricketers, Footballers, Golfers,
Runners, Rowers, and! others.
sdr
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Limited, Sydney and Brisbane.
Quotations Supplied to the Trade
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA.
A Sydney printing firm has obtained a
judgment of nearly £6OO against N.S.W. Govt,
for compensation for the compulsory closing of its
shop during the plague outbreak in April last.
When the Board of Health closes and cleans up a
place which has become, a menace to the com-
munity, the tenant or owner can claim compensa-
tion from the State for doing what he should have
done himself ! It doesn’t exactly encourage
sanitary energy in private persons.
A recent N.S.W. Parliamentary return
gives the cost of Sunday work in the various
departments for the,year as follows : _
Chief Secretary, £12,707 9s. 3d. ; Treasury, £15,006 12s.
Bd. ; Public Works, £646 ; Lands, nil; Public Instruction,
£5OO ; Attorney-General aifd Justice, £8250 ; Mines and
Agriculture, £440. Total, £37,550 Is. lid.
And the Government which authorises and carries
on this wholesale paid smashing of- the holy Sab-
bath forces the police to hunt the widow who
sells a banana or glass of milk on Sunday as a
criminal breaker of a sacred Ordinance.
More “identification” farce! A couple
of employees of different Melb. drapers, on whom
valueless, chequed had been recently parsed by a
“stylish-looking lady,” were lately taken by a
smart ’tec. to view a perfectly innocent woman,
who protested that she had for some time not been
near the shops in question. Both employees were
so positive of her identity with the “wanted”
lady that she was arrested and remanded from
time to time for over a month. Then the d.’s.
stumbled across the real culprit, who didn’t re-
semble the other a little bit. The ill-used, sus-
pected woman happened to be the wife of a well-
known citizen; had she been otherwise one can
imagine that the police authorities might,
expended less sole-leather in pursuing their invea- ■
tigations once they had made an arrest.
The House of Representatives has decided that
no State politician can become a candidate for the
Federal Parliament without first resigning his seat
in the State Parliament, the reason assigned being
that his free railway pass as a State member would
give him an undue advantage over other candi-
dates. But the Federal politician also has free
railway transport, and he has no scruple about
travelling free on the railways while fighting for
his seat against the ex-State member who has to
pay his own fare. No man should hold a seat in
both Parliaments; but the present idea isn’t
aimed at that. It looks more like an effort on the
part of the men in possession to penalise and dis-
qualify those who are most likely to compete
for their seats.
SNARPSHOOTIH6
For Sport and War.
gs
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK l
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/- nett.;
Posted, 1/2.
The beet 1/- worth ever Published,
IF you wish to get good work and value
you should purchase W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUhIS and RIFLES)
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins «Stneet, Melbourne.
(Greener's Representative).
A Green Plag Ahead.
Ip Victorian Railway Minister Thomas Bent has
any sense at all he will see that there is a green
flag ahead on the line just now, and slow-down on
his reckless rush to smash. There is great need
for him now to be, not unspeakable, but unspeak-
ing. Every utterance of his is an ignorant taunt,
calculated to force on a general railway strike in
Victoria. Speaking on Monday, with regard to
the strenuous objection of the railway men to
bear the burden of Government extravagance and
Kyabram dishonesty by consenting to a reduction
in wages, Mr. Thos. Bent said :
If they choose to strike, they may do so, but let them
clearly understand that if they do I shall not be caught
napping. I know what they say and think about the
difficulty of filling their places, but I have not been idle
in the matter, and can get more drivers than they
imagine. Let the men be under no misunderstanding as
to the results that will attend a strike. If they go out,
others will have to go, too. The effects of a strike would
be more far-reaching than seems to be apparent. All the
men working on the Mildura and other lines would be
thrown out, and other work would be paralysed. Why,
the effect of the strike would be worse than a war.
This is a Government without knees, and it is not going
to bend to the protests of the men in the slightest.
“ Strike ” is an obscene word in the mouth of a
Crown Minister as “ war” is in the mouth of a
diplomatist. The Victorian railway men haven’t
started to talk strike directly; it is Mr. Thos.
Bent who talks strike and dares them—practically
eggs them on —to that step. If the strike which
he seems to almost wish does come, it will not last
W66k, a/Tid. it will break M!r. J?hos. Bent s shins if
it doesn’t bend his knees. The Victorian public
know Mr. Bent asafinancierandas a politician, and
the knowledge isn’t- likely to lead to any marked
confidence in a railway train run by a Thos. Bent
blackleg. The Victorian public, too, will generally
sympathise with the men. Now that, more
revenue is needed it has become a question of
cutting down their wages—or making Melbourne
and other large Victorian towns pay land-tax,
from which they are now exempt. Coarsely and
brutally Thomas Bent sets forth that the Govern-
ment which he doesn’t ornament would rather
retrench the poor than make the rich pay up to
the same extent as in almost every other civilised
country. When Thomas falls in he will get little
sympathy and deserve less.
Said now in Federal circles that Bigjohn
Forrest has utterly spoiled the chance, which his
wife had made for him, of the Federal High Com-
missionership, by his blundering speeches in
London.
The Drayton Grange Royal Commission
will have some curiously conflicting statements to
investigate. Col. Ricardo, Commandant in A.,
explained that the pneumonia-stricken patients
were not removed from the transport at Albany
because it was “ pouring with rain.” Col. Lyster,
in charge of the transport, says it wasn’t raining at
the time. Acting-Minister for Defence Lyne was
reported to have stated m the House of Reps.,
when the first news came, that the press reports
were “ grossly exaggerated ”; he now claims that
these were General Hutton’s words (which he
quoted), not his own.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Seddon’s latest (reported per cable) is to
warn the British people not to be sympathetic or
friendly towards the Boer generals when they
visit England. Truly the Maoriland hog-export
business is looking up.
Selina Sangal, now under arrest (with a
man named Tiesl), in Victoria, on suspicion of
having some connection with the death of her
husband, is said to be a sister of Thekla Dubberke,
of boot-trunk-tragedy fame.
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
A mob of 121 bullocks from Womblebank
station, Roma (Q.), which were fattened on
prickly pear in its natural state, and were for
nearly two months without water, were recently
auctioned at Homebush sale-yards, Sydney, and
brought up to £l6, averaging £l3 12s. The exact
number started from the station, viz., 120, were
landed in Sydney without a lame or injured beast.
Is it the duty of a respondent to pare a
co-respondent’s corns regularly? One witness in
the Hall divorce case (Adelaide) testified that she
had only once seen the rev. gentleman who is
accused of undue familiarity, having his naked
feet trimmed by the fair hands of the defendant.
Now corns are excrescences that require constant
watchfulness. If they are only pared once they
might almost as well be left alone. _ When a man
takes off his boots and socks and lies back in an
easy chair, while a lady takes his feet firmly but
tenderly under her arm and fixes them up, it may
be pleasant enough, but if it is a solitary episode
it must be regarded rather as a sign of tenderness
than as steady medical attention. It is pretty
and agreeable, but it isn’t chiropody. The co-
respondent who has found a respondent who really
knows how to look after his feet, and will attend
to them patiently twice a week, has found a
treasure. Most respondents are frivolous and
unbusiness-like, and lavish their attentions on the
top end of the co-respondent, where they aren’t
really wanted.
-T7OR the person who is not a millionaire, thereis ONLY
-C ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King- Street Coffee Palace,” “W 1
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. IF. ELLIS.
&
i
&
Fop
Quality^,
Workmanship and Prlco
Our
Dunlop
* Rubber
* Goods
are unequalled in Australia.
Mine Managers, Engineers,
and ail users of Rubber goods A
are invited to send for prices I
and samples. ......
Price List on application.
Quality the Highest.
Price the Lowest.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Of Australia, 108 Flinders Street, Melbourne. '
150 Clarence Street, Sydney.. 59 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane. - 61 Barrack Street, Perth.
128 Lichfield Street, Christchurch, N.Z.


At Illowa (\ic.), t other clay, a cow gave
birth to four fully-developed calves a trifle under
average size.
Other day, at Tenterfield (N.S.W.), a man
charged with smoking on the railway platform'
urged m defence that, although he was standing
on the platform, he was really smoking inside a
properly-labelled smoking carriage. His head and
shoulders were inside the windows of the com-
partment while he was alternately engaged in
smoking and saying “goodbye” to a friend
1 urther, lie said, a man was sitting in the carriage
with his head out of the window blowing clouds
of smoke on to the platform, and that, in his
opinion, constituted smoking on the platform
much more than his actions did, as the combustible
end of him was m a Government place set apart
for smoking. Ingenious, but he was fined all the
SciniOa
Ladies recommend Martin’s Aniol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N. S. Wales : sfye, 3
All port and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprieto/ w’
England.* harmaCeUtlCal chemist ’ Southampton,'
p>
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes
C| eansmg Preparation for the Hair.
” i S and . Grease s Pots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
~ . lnvi S° ratin g 'o Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
_, , , Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
drg
Cheapest House in Australia for EDISON
Phonographs * Records
“BIJOU,” with 6 Records ..
E|>KON ‘‘STANDARD,” with 12 Records
EDISON HOME,” with 24 Records
COMBINATION A 1 “GRAND,” taking both
Large and Small Records, with 12 Records, 6
Concert (sin.) Records and Large Horn
EDISON RECORDS, English and American
per dozen
CONCERT (sin.) RECORDS,'per dozen!! !!
£1 10
5 10
8 10
10 10 0
0 0
0 0
for Splendid New Illustrated Catalogue containing
6000 Selections to choose from. Electric Fans, with
Battery, £5 ; Electric Bike Lamps, 21s ; Flash Lights,
Scarf Pin Lights, 10s 6d ; Vapour Bath Cabinets, 20s f&e.,
Free.
Records can be posted to any address. Machines care-
fully packed and forwarded to any part of Australasia.
REEVES & CO.,
KING WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
Brooches at
Manufacturers’
Prices !
These Brooches are absolutely the best Brooch
values ever offered in Sydney. Why? Because
they are sold at the same prices at which
many jewellers,buy to sell at Retail!
12/6.
They are beautifully designed, are solid 9c. Gold
Hall-Marked.
Thousands of Brooches to Choose from.
L. I. FLEQELTA ÜB,
WATCHMAKER and JEWELLER,
9S KHMG ST., SYDNEY (and at London).
Sore Eyes 2 Blight Z
USED 300 YEARS.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
Never fails. Restores Eyelashes •
HAD FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT.”
Ask your Chemist for this little book.
sd
IN order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade — viz., the above handsome Brooch
(any name or three initials) made of extra quality
Oct. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant ; guaran-
teed the same quality as the brooch advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0, or
M.O. for ss. in round wire or sq. twisted wire, 15ct
gold, filled, Bs. 6d. Illustrated catalogues sent free'
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
Our only address—
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA
AN EFFICIENT
6/-
FILM CAMERA
THE BROWNIE.
Not a toy. Takes splendid photographs,
by 2J inches. Complete with hand-
book of instructions.
KODAKS from 6a. to £8 18s.
OF ALL PHOTOGRAPHIC DEALERS, or fro.n
KODAK, Limited,
The Block , 28k Collins Street , Melbourne.
Send for illustrated price list and mention this
paper.
THE PENALTY.
"The Bishop of Gippsland (Right Rev. Dr. Pain) moved the first resolution as follows:-That this meering is of opinion that the dismissing of the children in the
State schools before the giving of boluntary religious instruction greatly prejudices and hindere such Instruction, as those who are meanwhile at play, and
the religious instruction thus appears like a penalty."
There are here shown the children of religious parents being kept in at play-time to hear all about their fast-approaching latter ends.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
yo notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must an-tear on If J.
No liability vs undertaken in any case re contrlbu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
Video: Don’t you think the “well-paid and
easy-going civil servant” is getting to be a played-out
superstition? The Bulletin knows plenty who have put
in a dozen years’ good work, and haven’t reached the
giddy altitude of £2 10s. a week. The civil servant was
well paid about the time the land banks were booming
and the alluvial miner was making a fortune—the good
old times when every policeman had £2OOO in a building
society and got 10 per cent, interest on it Neutral :
If you want the truth about Bishop Stretch’s calm and
pious Kanaka, read the Q. Govt, statistics and see how
the islander looms up in the gaol records in proportion
to his number. And he is almost always in for crimes of
violence. If you want to know what becomes of a white
race which adulterates itself with blacks or browns, go
to Brazil, Guatemala, Honduras or Hayti. The day
one of these bishops or parsons proves his belief
in his own yarns about the fitness of the black
man to make a good citizen of a white Common-
wealth by marrying his own daughter to the simple,
pious, spotless Tommy Tanna, we will believe him
H.C.B. : If you can’t find out from reading the B. what
stuff the paper likes, afraid we can’t help you with advice.
“In a Bar” Certainly unsuitable E.J. : No charm in
Agnostic sermon turned into a story A.M.G. : Your
“true poker story ” shows a poor hand E.Y. : “ Plain
Talk” rather crude in style. The illegitimacy item, in
particular, is evidently written under the impression that
the Brisbane revelations are new and unusual. Statistics,
covering many countries, and going back half a century,
show the same trouble almost everywhere, and often in a
worse form J.L. : Kalgoorlie Miner’s Freetrade in-
telligence maybe measured by its assurance that if the
■country had no Protection “the same goods could be
■obtained from outside some 20 to 100 per cent, cheaper.”
If you get goods 100 per cent, cheaper vou get
them for nothing at all—the importer makes you
■a present of them. When the slipshod Kalgoorlie
Miner person doesn’t even know a small thing
like that he certainly doesn’t know much "
A.M. : Surely you needn’t have traced the old gentleman
right back to Chaos : it takes such a long while to get
thence to the 20th century. Adam is a sufficiently far-
back starting-point for the average panegyric.
M.E.J.P. : A fine, large flow of eloquent language leading
nowhere L.R.: We’re reluctant to publish a mere
catalogue of drought horrors. Pen-pictures written on
the spot are more convincing J.R. : The photos, were
printed at the special request of the police to aid them.
... .Honor B. : You write—
“ Poetry permits of things
In prose I dare not try.”
It doesn’t in this paper M.L. : Some very good writing
wasted on an impossible subject. The B. doesn’t praise
The B. in its own columns ; feelings on that subject
too deep for words Stray : Good in idea and
treatment, but it’s the wrong sort of story ; un-
necessarily dismal without being actually tragic
W.J B. : Very prolix, and all about nothing. This print
isn’t 40,000 acres of paper William H. : A truly modest
proposal, but The Bulletin wouldn’t print a serial if it
came, from the pen of Dickens or Thackeray D.H.R.:
A strenuous attempt at “fine-writing,” but that’s what a
sane paper does not want; eloquence is the one fault of
great writers.,. .G.G. : Impossible to here print such a
frenzied sex-yell as “ P.G.’s Love ” ; and. it is all wrong,
anyway. They’re as kissable at Darling Point as at
Miller’s Point, at Toorak as at Footscray. '. ,N.II. : Just
mummer’s foolishness. “Theatricals,” with a few ex-
ceptions, are the dullest, tamest people on earth,
and they’re only worth noticing when their monkey-
tricks are likely to amuse the public E.D. It’s in
print that “ we detest women with an appetite,” as you’ll
see from the context. Reference was to women • writers
who eternally persist in g oating. over the supper or
grumbling at the lunch in their reports of social
affairs. Woman has naturally a larger proportionate
appelite than man, though less gastronomic tasle ;
and by all means let the . dear creature indulge
it, but not parade her greed in cold print
P.A. something or other: You are a Jaypee and have
been a Mayor, and you ask us to publish your photo, and
the letters you “ have a weakness for writing.” Rats !
H.B. : The Bulletin will believe that Irving and Ellen
Terry are coming to Australia when they fix the time of
their setting forth, and state what they propose to play
in this country. By the way, .where and when did Kate
Bis h °p ever appear as Juliet? And who told you that
T 1..0 rry » s ,Ju let was remarkable for “solemnity of
style ..... Airies J. : Your friends say your “ poetry ”is
gooa. No, it is your enemies who say' 50... .A.M.P. :If
you ran a newspaper you would probably hold quite as
many candles to various devils as we do. As a matter of
fact, Till? Bulletin does wish the best of health to King
..ward. The accession of his son (and his son’s
wife) to the British throne at the present juncture
W i? U VY b u a P ubllc calamity ; it would have been a
ghastly thing for an unfettered Chamberlain to have
held sway during the last days of the Boer war....
Ing. : Pastor Tremayne Dunstan had, we believe, £6OO a
year at Sydney Pitt-st. Congregational Church. (2) We
don t know... .Tate : Argument upset by the fact that
cheie are certain oaths which a man should not take,
ihe man who swears, or promises, that he will do some-
thm# which he should not do, or which subsequent easily-
foreseen events might prevent him from honestly doing
would commit an ethical wrong then. As to whether he
should carry out such a promise or oalh, that’s a prob-
lem in casmstry of the “ honor among thieves” type...',
S. W. : All that you say about the dejection of little
Senator Zeal has been said before. Zeal and Simon Fraser
sit together in the library at Parliament House and
mingle their sad sense of unimportance. They are a
pathetic sight... .11,10.: Yes, sentence of death was
passed upon the Boot-Trunk tragedians. It was com-
muted to a term of imprisonment in each case. The
woman got eight years, and the young man got
five years or less E.K.G. : Pars, to hand not
of sufficient interest M.U.C.K. : Just so.
Pan D. : A poem running to 14 fcp. pp. of closely-written
scrawl has no chance in a small paper like this, even if it
was a poem about anything in particular... .D.8.G.:
Very small, thin fowl-story Telsic : Too expansive, too'
little incident, and no climax F.D. : “Shrimpv”
opened well but ended hopelessly... .Euchre : Wouldn’t
illustrate. Needs too much explanation T.T.McB. :
Trusts” too wild and long drawn 0ut....
W ,: B - : Impossible to take up a matter which involves
reading through such an immensity of dimly-written
documents. You must condense your grievance into one-
tenth the space if you hope to have it seriously considered
.. Jasui : Lacks snap in the telling... .Fisherman : Idea
good, but treatment fails Pyrites: Only a small
adultery incident..... Purples: Aftermath is absurdly un-
real .Alone: “Domestic” verse needs to be very
bright.... David I. : Promising, but not enough skill vet
•; 11 • : , Ma .v one,.. .Tatters : Patch-work quilt of
pluases J. A.L. :We can’t advise on S’Africa as we
don t know ; but if you can do 130 words shorthand a
minute and have intelligence you ought to get a
show on a daily paper presently... .Mignon : You don’t
make a story or even an episode'of it, though writing is
»T°L b ,f 'bV le ' iara : Gootl Wea,. but faulty treatment
M.k.i . : Humor of football poem too subtle.... Nemo':
Too in usic-hally R.S. : Subject too risky... T.B.R •
1 inkle o. er-renuniscent Unsuitable: H.L.R., Oow-
bailer Robe. S„ S.W M Abbot Ilofred : Beaten out
too thin., dVlane Blaas: l’o print your yarn about
cookies would cost us 12 months’ flight to save our scalp.
W. W. . Nothing like blinding editors with rubbish ”
you say : well, it’s bad policy, as editors have memories
for hand wntmg : never submit anything unless you really
think it good. Ohinky story not bad, but you must put
things tersely. .Pros. G.: Some decent fig'll res, but not up..
yuex . v\ ho are the two brother comedians in question ?
... .Petramos : Not very lively. Try again.... Kalsomine :
Colossal masses of ill-scrawled MS. have no chance in this
office.. ..J.W. : London theatrical manager George
Edwardes never was in Australia. Moreover, he isn’t old
T l q gh /M°„ ha 7 e ,r be n n a u S >' dne y in the ’GO’g....
A J. s (Meih.) . Mullen had the book in stock, but sold it
• , i ! r >re °°P les are on order... .S.K.Y. : All the same
men? h T ee, ® r "’ as a &°£ d many years out in her state!
ment of age. He’s about 63, this year ; Ellen
p er p W 6 "' a £ e was officially given as 27 when
G. F. , Watts sued for dissolution of their “ill-assorted
union, and that would be 25 years ago, within a few
months either way A.E.C. (R„ Not a smile in it at
a]l - Alas f or the man who labels his MS. “ humor ”
iv.U. : He joined the majority.” You mean he'died?
Why not say 50?.... Hamer: Most of your Imgraphs
unspeakably dreary... .Ray: Your items are onlv of Meh
bourne interest. We want matter which appeals s alike to
the man in Collins-st. and his brother at Thursday Island
.. • -G.AI. : Unexceptionable rhyme, but stale sentiment
no melody, no color Weary verses, indeed, and we have
lmt it h’, ore in' ke th ® n , l to-day....Crex : Not bad verse,
but; it has all been said over and over again ad nauseam
wort^o 1 / 6 V Mr - W , ei - 3S ’ pa A triotio shows him to be
worthy of a Jaypeeship. As you suggest, he should be
made a J.P. at once J.S.G. : 'You evidently know
nothing about either humor or dynamite—both dangerous
things if not properly handled. uaugerous
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
John L. (G.): May serve as picture-idea... .F.B •
Thanks, but we ve had one sketch on same subject
lately <J. Powers: Mere verbal quips aren’t good
DOinf O P P “ Upon ’ ’ Z, Y.X.: Don’t see the
point. M.h.P. . Swear item may serve.... Supplejack •
We rarely accept already-illustrated verses. Seldom indeed
do verses and drawing both hap pen to suit us. In this case
neither one nor the other would d 0... Maori : Pape?
aP r ’£ hfc : bllt drawing hopelessly stiff T. H. Cum
(M.L.). Good strong drawing, wooden legend rin*
rw.twog. 00^011 F '’ Mer o ema„, le i e u n drew-k";


Health is Wealth
FREEMAN & WALLACE
Surgical IpStitOtc.
The Two Men of Especial Eminence in
Pathological Problems who have the
Largest Practice in Australasia.
To the Readers of the Common-
wealth.
It is always necessary, when introducing to the
public notice any new subject, that the introduc-
tion should be clear and complete. In calling
your attention to the literature of this page, our
IS
I
fd
vm
i
HOWARD FREEMAN,
Member Dr. Harmon’s College, Washing-
ton, Cor., Cal., U.S.A. ; Professor of
Electricity; Founder and Director of
the Institute.
course is more than clear. Messes. Freeman
and Wallace have long ago been introduced to
the populace of Australia, but there are many
matters connected with the great Institute con-
trolled by them of which the public have not the
most intimate acquaintance. We are desirous of,
describing to you the outward appearance and
the inner workings of their great national establish-
ment, the Electro-Medical and Surgical Insti-
tute, a splendid photograph of which is here dis-
played. In addition, a few words will not he too
reiterative, explanatory of the international
eminence enjoyed by its governing staff of
Specialists.
There are two well and widely known men con-
nected with this great INSTITUTE.
The handsome illustrations will afford the
reader an opportunity of judging them, and a
glance at the qualifications will .complete the con-
viction that their eminence has been gained by a
life long study in the dark pathways of human
suffering and devastating disease. It is in these
dark pathways of existence that true Experience
is gained, it is there Theory shows its uselessness,
and Practice its utility. Practice embodies Ex-
perience ; Experience, Success; and Success,
Eminence. Thus we have Messrs. Freeman and
Wallace standing pre-eminent in the Southern
world as Medical Specialists in Nerve, Brain,
Fiver, Heart, Lung and Chronic Blood
Diseases. Their fame is essentially an evolution
of profound individual research and refined in-
tellectual thought of a most advanced and prac-
tically scientific nature.
The experience and popularity enjoyed by
Messrs. Freeman and Wallace is not evolved
by the passage of a few days. Although a man
may awake to find himself famous, that fame is
always the result of great application and
patient endeavour. Many long and arduous
days, nights, and years of earnest toil and hopeful
research lead up to the dawn of the final famous
morning. This has been the case with these great
Specialists; they have been for a great number of
years before the public of Australasia, to whom
they are as well known as the Premiers and high
political luminaries of each Federated State.
There- is no doubt as to their skill; no question
of their eminence ; their ability in healing certain
classes of diseases each day ensures their deathless
popularity.
Conjunctive with the great international posi-
tions attained by them in the fields of Specialism,
is the scene of their scientific labors, the Electro-
Medical and Surgical Institute. This great
and imposing building is an exposition of the
Specialist’s skill, as well as an impressive struc-
t oral admission of their abilities. It is handsome,
pretentious, elegant; splendidly adorned exter-
nally and internally ; it is replete with all modern
facilities, its usefulness and necessity is charac-
terised by great popularity and professional
renown. This is a renown which has arisen from
the efforts of two scientific lives which have
never known one failure in the treatment of a
pathological disease, or in the elucidation of a
pathological problem.
To accurately describe so immense an Institu-
tion would infringe upon our limited space, but
to satisfy the curiosity of the reader, a few of its
chief features will be treated. The accompanying
illustration, etched by one of Sydney s leading
photo-artists, will show that the building is three-
storied, occupying a large area of ground, and is
pleasantly situated beside the most picturesque
floral domain of Sydney —Hyde Park. Here
thousands of people congregate for recreativ
purposes during the hot summer months, and in
the calm of the twilight evenings, and as they rest
beneath the calm glory of the Southern stars,
their attention is attracted to the great Institute
adjacent, which tells them of a way of escape
from physical torment, and which points out to
them the paths to follow to obtain bodily peace
and mental rest.
The outward appearance of the Institute is
always superlatively grand, the various entab-
latures of blue and gold and silver which adorn
the numerous facades, standing out m handsome
and well-assumed relief. Artistic taste and
execution dominates the entire external adorn-
ment upon which the names of the Specialists
stand out in letters of gold and blue. Ihe
base of the building contains the Pharmacy,
known to the public as the Owl Drug Store,
where the medicines required by the Institute are
dispensed. This department, which contains all
the drugs which a first-class Pharmacy requires,
is supervised by a member of the Pharmaceutical
Society of N.S. Wales, under whom is a staff of
assistants. All the drugs are imported by the
Institute. The Pharmacy is handsomely decorated
in blue and gold, the ceiling being a work of art
in the above charming colors. Plate-glass mirrors
gleam from the surrounding walls, while the front
of the Pharmacy, with its massive white marble
pillars and vestibule, calls for general admiration.
On entering the vestibule, through stained-glass
doorways, with its tessilated mosaic pavement,
we are prepared in a manner for better tilings
upstairs. On ascending these stairs, covered with
rich, soft Brussell’s carpeting, we find ourselves on
the first floor landing, which comprises the waiting-
room, the consulting-room, and laboratory. r l. he
telephone department is also on this floor, as well
as an office for a typewriter immediately in
attendance on the Specialists. The waiting-room is
quietly and tastily furnished, there being nothing
of a gaudy nature, but everything of the best and
choicest quality. ' A few good paintings adorn the
walls, whilst the mantelpiece is surmounted by an
elaborate mirror, which imparts a pleasing air to
the scene.
Leaving the waiting-room, we find ourselves
requiring minute observation, and one of the
finest instruments for this purpose of exploration,
manufactured by Arnold, of London, occupies a
conspicuous position on a moveable platform so
that it can bs available for use during night or
day. Space will not admit of further details of
this department, but the order and cleanliness
patent to the most casual observer cannot fail to
strike the eye ; and we feel as we reluctantly quit
this room that everything that can be done to
further scientific research has been accom-
plished.
On the next floor, approached by an elegant
flight of stairs, is situated the office of the
manager, with his staff, _ and the department
where the correspondence is carried out. This is,
of course, the most busy-looking room m the
building—if, indeed, any room can in a sense be
called more busy than another—where all are en-
gaged in faithfully carrying out their various
duties; still, one is struck with the active energy
which pervades the scene. Quite a number of type-
writers are at work, and these wonderful machines,
clicking beneath the nimble fingers of the clerks,
produce a sound indicative of cheerful alacrity.
Some idea of the amount of correspondence car-
ried on in this department may be gained from the
fact that the seven type-writing machines are
actively in use. No such word as procrastination
is known. Quite recently one mail brought letters
from patients at Hong Kong, Suva (in the Fiji
Group), Glasgow (in Scotland), Gibraltar, South
Africa, and Newhaven (England). This will at
once demonstrate that the ends of the earth, so to
speak, are in communication with these celebrated
Sydney Specialists. The public has no idea of
the augmentation of the correspondence during
the last few years, but, when the above facts
are considered, the realisation of this assertion
will be comparatively easy.
All branches of the building are in communica-
tion by telephone with the staff of Specialists.
One important department is the Operative
Theatre, where the most delicate operations take
place daily. This'chamber is replete with all the
most modern requirements tending to successful
and efficient operative skill.
The packing department is a wonder in itself ;
each week sees hundreds of bottles of valuable
medicines transferred through the post from the
Institute. So careful is the packing and trans-
fer executed that no breakages are ever reported,
and no one but the persons to whom they are ad-
dressed have the least knowledge of what the
package contains. This is a fact worth remem-
Bering by those who do not care for publicity oi
their ailments.
I
c£
■■
1 *
r^AN
fH^
.
STRENGTH ELECTR(]-^pq {CAI
Mm I
ip
EL.E
• •. -■ ■ - ; * *. 5. ■,. ■ . ft;'-UCL
;« J • *
AND SURCICAL INSTITUTE. VICOR
W‘"•*
4®
s& .1;
TRAMS STOP AT THE DOOR.
in the sanctum of the presiding Specialists,
Messrs. FREEMAN AND WALLACE. An
elegant apartment, indeed, with its numerous
desks, and glass-cases filled with all the most
modern requirements for surgical as well as
electrical work. A magnificent multiple-celled
battery catches the eye—by Gaiffe, of Paris—a
Scientific expert in the manufacture of such
powerful machines, and another by Fleming, the
famous American Electrician. We cannot enter
into details of this chamber, but the hand of the
art decorator, as well as that of the artistic
upholsterer, is evident on all sides. We must not
omit to mention a most important factor here, we
allude to the Medical and Sur-
gical Diplomas which hang on
the Walls, bearing testimony to
the skill of the Physician-in-
Chief, Dr. Wallace, and which
afford convincing proof that we
are in the presence of one in
every respect qualified for the
position which he has gained
in Medical and Scientific
circles. Certificates of Registra-
tion by the Government Medical
Board accompany these and attest
the legality of qualification, and
the rights of those possessing
them.
The analytical laboratory is de-
serving of special attention, as
here are conducted operations of
vital importance, both chemical
and microscopical, the various in-
struments and test-tubes neces-
sary for chemical analysis have
each their particular location here,
while retorts, sand baths and
chemical troughs, denote the
labors carried on.
Analysis, whether qualitive or quantitive are
leading features in this establishment, so that
nothing escapes the watchful eye of the operator ;
the “ spectrum ” even, being frequently called into
use, when a diagnosis respecting minute mineral
substances, such as arsenic, antimony, and mer-
cury are required.
We have been informed that mercury m no
shape or form is used in any preparation leaving
this establishment, and the importance of this
assertion will- be readily understood by sufferers.
The microscope also finds its place here, as
chemical analysis is not deemed sufficient in cases
&
'K'.i
;C TRC
dical
Wk
0":
HlTull
500-page Medical Work.
An Xmas Literary Present-
Since the inception of the Institute, it has been
famous for its medical publications. Several
editions of “Rescued at Last,” an exhaustive
and profusely illustrated work were sold out.
This treatise was followed by “ Clinical Experi-
ences,” of which several thousand volumes in
several editions were circulated throughout
Australia. Both these works were well re-
ceived by the public and press, but useful
and instructive as they undoubtedly were, they
stand but poor comparison beside
the HANDSOME AND VALUABLE
edition which is now in the press,
and which will shortly be placed
before the public. This work, of
which the accompanying illustra-
tion affords a faithful pictorial
view, will retain the title “Clinical
Experiences,” of which previous
work it is a greatly enlarged and
revised edition. Its revision is
according to the requirements of
the law, which forbids, in the
interest of the public, any men-
tion of certain classes of diseases
which are termed private.
This great u'ork is handsome
in appearance, bound in blue cloth
with gold embossed reliefs, and
will make a pretty and useful addi-
tion to all household libraries. It
w’ill be The Chief Book in any
house where it may enter. A
child may read it, the most
fastidious may peruse its pages,
while those who are ignorant of
the pathological conditions of
their systems may become enlightened by
reading its instructive letter-press. It con-
tains 500 pages and 100 illustrations, showing
the internal organs in various positions ; together
with a description of the ravages of disease
affecting them. Several full-page plates show-
ing the muscular, nervous, and bone systems,
with twenty pleasing and artistic illustrations
of the exterior and interior of the Institute are
enclosed within the pages. These will impress
the reader with the vastness of the Institute,,
and will show the various departments in which
the Specialists pursue their important studies.
In addition to a review of almost every disease
man is heir to; the book contains useful chapters
upon certain subjects, the information imparted
being of a most valuable nature. These chapters
teach the reader how to manage a sick-room,
what to do in cases of drowning, suffocation, burns
and scalds, accidents, snake-bites, sunstroke,
apoplexy, plague, etc., etc. There is no gauging
the benefit such a work must confer upon any
person fortunate enough to possess it.
A Gift to the People.
The Specialists of the Institute, recognising
that persons who live in the remote portions of
Australia, where medical aid is unavailable, re-
quire a work of this character, have resolved to
publish it and present it to their patrons PRACTI-
CALLY Free of Charge. It is a handsome literary
Christmas present to the patrons of the Institute
from its Proprietors, and copies of this most valu-
able work will be posted free to Any Address in
the Commonwealth on receipt of sixpence in
stamps. There is no question that it is a hand-
some and most instructive presentation book, the
best of its kind ever published in Australia, and
as orders are rapidly rolling in, no time should be
lost in applying for a copy of its first edition.
All applications should be sent direct to the
Institute, addressed to Messrs. FREEMAN
AND WALLACE, Australia’s Leading
Specialists.
1
\\) M
SPSS'S
RICHARD WALLACE,
M.Dr, L.R.C.P., L.F.P.S., L.M.R.C.E,; late of
the' Medical Staff, British Army; and
late Consulting' Staff, Homoepathic
Hospital, Melbourne.
A little while ago we spoke of Electricity as an
adjunct to the medical treatment of diseases, and
as Messes. FREEMAN AND WALLACE are
devout believers in the efficacy of Electricity as
a remedial agent, they have fitted up an entirely
new instalment of Electricity in connection with
medical baths. It has been found that in a variety
of chronic cases, when the condition of the patient,
so to speak, is one that the regular medical reme-
dies will not effect a cure, that something extra
is required in order to cause the necessary absorp-
tion of the medical agents. For this reason Elec-
tricity has been found to act admirably in
conjunction with medicines. Messrs. FREE-
MAN AND WALLACE were the first Specialists
to introduce moist and dry Electricity into their
business, the results of which have been very
gratifying to the patients and to the Specialists.
In cases of Indigestion or Dyspepsia, arising
in many instances from an altered condition of
the nerve centres supplying the Stomach, Pan-
creas, and Spleen, and extending to the Liver,
and very often implicating the Kidneys and
causing any amount of DEPRESSION OE
SPIRITS, with melancholic tendencies; Elec-
tricity again finds a large field for its benefi-
cial influences. Hence, when during an altered
condition of the nerves of digestion, the power to
dissolve the food, so that the nutritious portions
are rendered fit for absorption into the blood, is
interfered with, often to an alarming extent,
we can artificially supply the required nerve power
by introducing Electricity into the system.
This subject is so full of interest that much
more might be said concerning its influence, and
the book already referred to, “Clinical Experi-
ences,” contains, amongst many interesting sub-
jects, a chapter alone dedicated to Electricity.
Anyone suffering in a way which may lead him
to believe that Electricity may assist his vital
powers, should send for one of the famous Electric
belts which are kept in store by the Specialists,
and which have been guaranteed in accordanee
with a most rigid electrical test. They will revive
the drooping spirits, re-strengthen the nervous
system, revitalize degenerating powers, and im-
part vigor and happiness where often the sufferer’s
case has appeared hopeless. The prices are
reasonable, and the electrical influences great and
permanently effective.
Professional Jealousy.
It is a fact that jealousy arises from a vivid
cause. Many members of the medical profession
of Sydney evince their dislike of the modus
operandi of Specialists and their doctrine,
Specialism. It is the proudest moment in the
Specialist’s life when he knows that he has
caused a professional jealousy to exist through his
superior knowledge and treatment of pernicious
and problematical diseases. The INSTITUTE
has always excelled in this superiority. A proof of
excellence is contained in the valuable testimonial of
Sir Dominic Corrigan, Bart., late Physician to
the Queen, who knew personally one of the lead-
ing Specialists of the Institute. Sir Dominic
says -“I entertain a high opinion of Dr.
Wallace, both personally and in respect of his
professional attainments.” While such profes-
sional asservations are given, professional jealousy
is easily accounted for.
The gr reeman & Wallace
EBectro-Medical and
Surgical Institute
Corner of .. .
Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney
For privacy, patients may address “ F. & W.”
corner Elizabeth and Bathurst St., Sydney.
SST Mention this Paper when loritiny.


Amusements.
JHEATRE
T ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. .. .. Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Under the Direction of .. Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative.. .. Mr. Allan Hamilton.
LAST FOURTEEN NIGHTS of
MR. and MRS. BROUGH in AUSTRALIA.
THURS. and FRIDAY, AUG. 14 & 15, TWO FAREWELL
PERFORMANCES of A VILLAGE PRIEST.
SAT. and MONDAY, AUG. 16 & 18, TWO FAREWELL
PERFORMANCES of THE TYRANNY OF TEARS.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
I YC EU M THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee Mr. Win. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING BLAND HOLT’S
Latest Melodramatic Spectacle,
WI7G FLYING COLORS.
BRIGHT ! BRISK 1 BREEZY !
POPULAR PRICES—3s,, 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
QRITE Rl ON THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee
Manager
John F. Sheridan.
Frank Weathersby.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
MATINEE, WEDNESDAY 2.30,
J ohn F.
S HE KR IDA INF,
AND BRILLIANT COMPANY,
Appearing in Geo. Dance’s Comic Operatic Play,
THE LADY SLAVEY.
THE LADY SLAVEY.
PRICES 35., 25., Is. 6d., and Is. Box Plan at
Nicholson’s. No Extra Charge for Booking. Day Sale
(early doors only) at White Rose Confectionery, 269
Pitt-street.
pALACE
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessees .. .. Messrs. LEE and RIAL.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S
MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY
in the Charming Comic Opera,
s A 3XT TO Y.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Nicholson and Co.
X I V , °,, L 1 THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
An uninterrupted furore, night after night, created by
L’incomparable PAUL CINQUEVALLI.
A Most Enthusiastic Welcome accorded
THE JACKSON FAMILY.
Unqualified Success of MARK ANTHONY, the great
London Society Entertainer and Story-Teller.
BARNEY FAGAN and HENRIETTA BYRON, TOM
WOOTTWELL, WILLIAMS QUARTETTE, BABY
PARKES, &c., &c.
Prices as Usual. Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
ICK ARDS’ NEW OPERA HoTTseT
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.m.
Madame LYDIA YEAMANS-TITUS.
Mr. FREDERICK J. TITUS.
7 THE FLORENZS 7
THE HARVEY BOYS. ADA DELROY
Professor FRED. HARCOURT. DORA TAYLOR
ERNEST BRINKMANN.
Prices—2s. 6d., 25., Is., and 6d. Plan at Allan’3.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
* , Lessee Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Le3see and Manager ... William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hendv. Treas., Julius Grant.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, headed bv Miss EUGENIE DUGGAN.
EVERY EVENING, the Latest London Success,
THE WORST WOMAN IN LONDON,
Pronounced by London press and public to be one
of the best Dramas of modern days.
Prices—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
1 Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. George Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING, Australia’s Greatest High-Class
Comedy Artiste,
MISS NELLIE STEWART,
in
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY,
Assisted by Geo. Musgroye’s New English Dramatic Co.
Prices as. Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Wednesday Matiffqe-s.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Under the Direction of ; Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
FRIDAY, AUGUST 15, LAST NIGHT of
A RUNAWAY CIRL.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 16, the First Time in Melbourne
of the Charming and Romantic Comic Opera,
ROBIN HOOD.
Prices as Usual. “§?&
Box Plan at Allan's.
DIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
M Sole Lessees : Henry Lee and J. G. Rial.
EVERY EVENING, at 7.45 Sharp,
HENRY LEE as CYRANO DE BERCERAC.
and Unequivocal Success of the Most Attractive
Play ever Presented in Melbourne,
CYRANO DE BERGERAC
Mr. Henry Lee supported by Miss Janet Waldorf
and an adequate company.
Prices—6s., 35., 25., Is. Reserved Seats at Allan’s.
A. MIDDLETON, General Manager.
Mt. Lyell: “ There is nothing whatever in the
appearance of the mine generally to warrant the con-
tinuous fall in the shares.” So say the daily newspaper
men. They may or may not know that the present price
is justifiable only on one of two contingencies—amalga-
tion with North Lyell or a sharp advance in the value of
copper. As both of these events seem imminent, the
people who are selling the shares may not be acting too
wisely, unless they are working on the principle that by
selling small lots at low figures they may be able to scoop
m larger lots at about the same rates.
* • * *
Last fortnight the Moon group of mines,
Bendigo (New Moon, South New Moon, and Clarence)
paid £5900 in divs. This average, it is thought, will be
maintained throughout the year, and, in the case of the
first two, for some years to come.
• » * *
Glenfine South (Vic.) has again come into
•prominence through the picking-up of the pay ore chute
in the 408 ft. level south. The lode is reported to be from
7to Bft. wide, and payable right across. Mine not likely
to justify the big expectations of two years ago, but ought
to became a steady producer. The length of pitch of the
pay chute having been determined beyond question,
regular returns will be forthcoming if the directors adopt
the proper system of keeping development work well in
advance of stoping. The temptation to devote all energy
to breaking pay-ore and distributing every available
penny in divs. is great, particularly where market
interests are strong, but Glenfine South directors profess
to be proof against these. They will be judged by then-
actions and not by their professions within the next six
months.
* * • *
A unique record: “Forest Creek Goldfields,
Uastlemaine, 564 tons, lOloz. The crushing, though poor,
is payable." This mine is worked by an English co., and
Waxellency Madden is generally credited with being one
of the largest shareholders. How many “ payable ”
crushings would it take to produce a dividend ?
* * * *
Hustler’s line of reef, Bendigo, showing up
splendidly. Hustler’s No. 1 co. during past fortnight
crushed 376 loads for 13700 z. Total crushings from new
reef, on which only level driving has been done so far,
1303 tons for 31940 z., average over 2oz. Sdwt. per ton.
Within three months co. has paid £II,OOO in divs. The
reef on which it is operating is supposed to be a con-
tinuation of that from which, in the early ’7o’s, the
Extended Hustler’s Cos. and its “ Pups ” got such sensa-
tional returns. The Extended Cos. seems to have an
excellent prospect at 2900 ft., the greatest depth reached
on this line. A winze is being sunk through a lode
formation, some of the spurs in which show good gold.
Cos. about to start driving at 700 ft. from Latham and
Watson’s shaft to try to pick up the Hustler’s No. 1 reef;
It was at Latharii and Watson’s mine that the late Duke
of Edinburgh was banquetted in an underground chamber
known as the “ jeweller’s shop.”
* * * *
Long Tunnel Extended, Walhalla (Vic.): Last
return 17510z.' from 938 tons, or loz. 17dwts. per ton.
Stone raised from below 2000 ft., and reported that two
lower levels are being opened on equally good material.
Long Tunnel Cos. likely to renew proposals for amalgama-
tion. It is understood that the Extended has never
viewed the project with a favorable eye, and if in the past
it adopted a stand-off attitude the splendid prospect
which it now has will assuredly induce it to hold
further aloof. All practical considerations favor the two
properties being worked as one, but the millennium will
come when the cos. arrive at a reasonable understanding-.
♦ * * *
Princess Royal, Norseman (W.A.), the best
W.A. mine owned in Australia, has declared its 15th div.
This brings up total distribution to £60,000 against
£13,500 subscribed capital. Main shaft is down 400 ft. and
levels opened up at 220, 300 and 380 ft. Stone at 220 ft. is
Bft. wide and is supplying mill with 17dwt. ore. Lower
levels practically untouched. Nothing fresh transpired
re sale of mine to John Bull.
* * * •
Peak Hill (W.A.), is now taking mill supplies
from an open cut 300 ft. long by 100 ft. wide. Eyes been
completely gouged out of mine by former managers, and
present incumbent has hard work to top the sdwt. mark.
40 head mill treats 4800 tons monthly, or 4 tons per stamp
daily. Only hope for shareholders recovering any of their
money is to increase mill and so reduce expenses, but
water supply is insufficient to warrant extension.
* * * *
At recent annual meeting of W. F. Reward
Kanowna (W. A.), chairman told shareholders that “we
have a very fine mill and a long chute of ore.” This was
swallowed without demur, although no reef had been cut
in the new main shaft, and no gold chute was proved to
exist. u As to the alleged fine mill it consists of 20 heads
of 6501 b. stamps over six years old, the utmost capacity
of which, on a comparatively soft, oxidised ore, was less
than 400 tons a month. Divs. of £15,000 to £16,000 a
year are promised. As this means over £3 a ton treated
it does not need a clairvoyant to foresee fresh disappoint-
ments in store. Cos. has already existed, by the aid of
sundry corpse-revivers, for a period of eight years. Of
divs. there have been none, and there is never likely to be
any.
• * * *
North Boulder (W.A.), reconstructed only a
year ago, is again in dock . f der repairs. In conjunction
with the Kalgoorlie Bank of England it is to start on
another stormy voyage. New co. will have 400,000 shares
of 10s. each, of which Bankites will get 55,000 fully paid
th’e' Northites 260,000 paid up to 7s. 6d. Balance of
85,000 will be held in reserve. Chairman buoyed up
desponding shareholders with numerous fairy tales
among others “ that the rich western chute of the Orova
may pass through our property.” As the Oroya is on the
west, arid the “ western chute ”is underlying still further
west, North Boulderites must be marvellously sanguine
or verdantly green if they base any hopes on the chair-
man’s ‘‘ may.”
* * * *
The Associated (W.A.) has cut a lode at 800 ft.
in Tetley’s shaft, and another at 1050 ft. in Judda’s The
former is a highly mineralised body about 6ft. thick, and
may prove of value ; blit the latter is no good, so far as
tested. . These finds are the first ore bodies discovered
below the 600 ft. level, and for that reason the most will
be made of them, but the mine is hopelessly overweighted
with its half-million treatment plant, during the exis-
tence of which it can never be made to pay.
* * ¥ *
The’ Atlas, Kalpini (W. A.), will ere long join
the list of producers. The main incline shaft is down
320 ft. and levels are well opened up at 200 ft. and 3joft
A 12-drill compressor is being erected, and the 10-head
Martin battery will be on the mine shortly. Two years’
supply of 15 to 20dwt. ore is already in sight, and this
will be greatly augmented when the rock-drills get to
u VO ,; ,Tifis mine is being splendidly and economically
handled, and, as the reef is a very free milling quartz,
costs will be comparatively low.
* * * * r
Westralia Mt. Morgans is eagerly pushing on
developments so as to be in a position to supply the extra
30-head mill now under erection. Main shaft is now down
500 ft. on the lode. On Guest property the shaft is to be
pushed down and levels opened up to correspond with
those on main property. July yield, 40300 z. from 3600
toifs, practically the same as immediately preceding
returns. &
"V-. * * * *
Merton’s Reward (W.A.) has been thoroughly
overhauled and put into shape since taken over from the
original owner. The 30-head mill has been practically
re-built, while 10 heads have already resumed crushing
which are as many as the scanty water supply will run.’
Kaufmann and Rothschild have exercised their option on
Merton’s 100,000 shares, and taken them over at £1
apiece. The scrip will be put on the market as soon as
the occasion is favorable, and, till they are unloaded
good returns may be looked for, whatever may happen
subsequently.
* • * *
Queen Margaret, Bulong (W. A.), is not looking
too well, and the patchiness of the mine is again being
emphasised. There is a hitch in the negotiations for the
long-promised Govt, bore, as the co. wants to hold the
big end of the stick, in the event of anything good being
found. It will be an uncommon event if they don’t hold
the whole of the stick.
• * * *
Great Boulder (W.A.) is now down 1600 ft., and
opening out at that level will be started shortly. The
main ore bodies seem to go down regularly, but
unfortunately, outside of them, the property appears to
be a blank, both to east and north. The six Merton
furnaces are now on the mine and in course of erection.
Probably they will supersede instead of aiding present
furnaces, as the mine appears to be worked pretty well to
its full capacity under existing conditions.
* * * *
Lake View Consols has beaten several records,
but none so conspicuously as thatfor ephemeral brilliancy.
It went up like a gorgeous rocket and the stick has
dropped like a lump of lead. Not long since it held the
world in wonder with its marvellous yields and, seem-
ingly, magnificent prospects. Now, its controllers are
going cap-in-hand to the shareholders asking for money
with which to continue operations. Reconstruction with
a fresh issue of 100,000 shares at ss. premium has been
agreed upon. Nothing of any value has as yet been
located in the lower workings, and great difficulty is
being experienced in maintaining the returns. Unless
a fresh discovery takes place soon the monthly output
will shortly drop to 2000 oz. Doubtless the £125,000 of
additional capital now sought will be subscribed. To
complete its record-breaking career the Consols may yet
have to acquire another property.
* * * *
Hannan’s Oroya (W.A.), besides breaking out
fabulously rich ore from No. 6 level, is still crosscutting
eastwards for the continuation of the rich chute at No. 8
level. Capt. Parkes is to be sympathised with. He has
nursed the mine for years, hampered by financial diffi-
culties, and, on the eve of success, sees all his hopes
blighted and work rendered futile by an amalgamation
"bat has nothing practical to recommend it and which he
did his best to frustrate. As Moreing invariably installs
his own men, Parkes’ tenure of office must be very in-
secure. About 1000 tons of rich ore are bagged ready for
smelting. J
* * » ■»
Paringa Consols, Kalgoorlie (W.A.), has been
lying very low lately, and the bootnsters are probably
awaiting the usual Sept, flutter ere making any more
flattering announcements. The main shaft is being
pushed ahead and is now down 1100 ft. and has 200 ft. more
to go before another search for the lode is made.
* * * *
Bewick, Moreing & Cos., who now boss most of
the leading mines of W.A., threaten to freeze out local
traders by importing mining supplies direct from the
manufacturers. Their idea is to establish bulk stores at
i?remantle and supply from there explosives, machinery,
steel, cyanide, and other leading lines as required. Store-
keepers are raging furiously at the proposal. From a
mine-owner s point of view it has everything to recom-
mend it. There is no reason why companies should not
co-operate and get the benefit of the enormous profits
made by middlemen and retailers. It is only by such a
combination that, for example, mine-owners can get on
even terms with the Explosives Trust, which now charges
Australian cos. over 30 per cent, more for blasting com-
pounds than has to be paid by S’African companies.
„** -A.8.0.’* to The Bulletin concerning the
alleged Tarcoola (S.A.) goldfield After 600 miles of
tramping, part of the way through country where
the squatters have advertised they won’t give' tucker,
arrived at “ the Kalgoorlie of S.A.” My mate delivered
himself thus : “It’s only a diggings and backward at
that. I know gullies in the mountains in Vic. that turn
out more gold than Tarcoola, and they don’t put on anv
side about it. There’s a mine in a back yard in Bendigo
turned out more gold annually for years than they’ve
done here since it started—and even that Bendigo mine’s
crowded into one corner to make room for a foundrv ”
Biggest Tarcoola mine has a whip ; t’others good old
swinging on the handle. Our cousin down to Moonta has
been jeered at even by Orowlanders themselves, but a
Cambourne man would scoff at the wav they develone
mines here. Freight isn’t so much (£lO per ton) as in
some parts of Vic. (Gippsland Boulder paid up to £l7
per ton.) Still they run up 300 miles of telegraph and
Ca goidfield. Govt, runs the place and gets what
profit there is. They got £l2 balance from their mine (4
men employed) ; a nice bit for water from their wells and
charge 12s. lOd. ton at their battery—noted that nearly
every crushing takes cyanide—and a mine isn’t healthy
when it has to take that drug’. A week ago one lot of 224-
tons went ldwt. 12gr. per ton. Still the Blocks get on to
a good shoot now and then ; they're short but rich. Co«t
up to £l3 ton raising and treating, so it needs to be
pretty yellow. If M’s.P. were barred from taking up the
20-acre leases that Govt, chucks away by dozens, Tarcoola
might get on. Miles of country are held bv dummies
without a tap being done on them. If Tarcoola were in
Vic. they might make a goldfield of it; but being in S.A
here’’ take yearS t 0 open Up the wealfch that possibly is
* * * .
Barn Bluff is the name of anew copper show in
Tasmania which is alleged to have as large a formation
as Mt. Lyell, carrying about 3 per cent, of copper. May it
not be Barren Bluff ? 1 y
( Victorian barrister lately thus derived
“smooger ” for the benefit of an unsophisticated
±5encn : Smoo —smooth, ger=jaw; an oily-tongued
scoundrel.
A bachelor is defined by a woman as a
bargain-hunter at the social remnant-counter
whose supposed economies are more than balanced
by having bad stock so often palmed off on him.
A REAL PICK-ME-UP.—“ Talk about cham-
pagne, said Byron, “there is nothing which
cheers your spirits up like a dose of salts.” But
had he known Hunyadi Janos he would certainly
have preferred this, the best and safest natural
aperient,
S.A. Civil Service is not to suffer any
special salary reduction, but its hours will in
f f u ir i e -i 36 fron }n? t0 5 P’ m \’ with a Plentiful supply
of holidays. The mechanical departments are not
let off work when the clerical branches go, and
they were kept at their posts on Coronation Day
because the Govt, found that the wages-sheet
amounted to £2000, and there would be nothing to
show for it. 8
The average miner is handier with the
pick than mth the pen. This is how the officers
of Chiltern (Vic.) branch of the A.M A
in their last half-yearly report, deal with
the neglect of successive State Govts, to enact a
law for the establishment of industrial boards of
arbitration:
; ; • • Tbis ha , s npt bee n done and as the passing politi-
cal van rattles o er the stony roads of time we notice in
every instance that this is the first occupant to be hurled
from the window. We have from time to time to raise
this battered and slaughtered innocent from the gutter
and succour unto it new life. This political infant has
been nursed at the hustings by every candidate for politi-
cal honors, and no candidate expressed shame for the feed
bottle being nestled close to his breast, and, more cried
for its mercy and pleaded for its future. But as soon as
the public trusted full charge of the infant care to him he
dashed it to the earth and blazed his teeth defiantly at
his constituents and indulged in the sweeter devouts of
his nature.
The Spear-Parker case in Westralia has
developed curious features. Mr. Spear, editor of
the Spectator, was tried twice on a charge of
libelling' Mr. Justice Parker; then & nolle prosequi
was entered, and Spear, who seems deadly anxious
for notoriety, objected to not being further prose-
cuted. 1 he Crown then produced a very pathetic
letter from Mr. Spear’s mother, begging a friend
of hers, to use influence to have the prosecution
discontinued; and then this letter from the
Judge to the Crown :
Rex v. Spear.
Hon. R. S. Haynes yesterday read me a letter from
defendant s mother, who is greatly distressed at her son’s
position. In these circumstances, I shall be content if
you abandon the prosecution. -Faithfully yours, S. H.
Jr ARKER.
Acting on this the nolle prosequi was entered.
■“j iix ai r s not being prosecuted is awful,
and Mr. Justice Parker’s calm way of interfering
with the course of the criminal law does not lack
humor. A Royal Commission has, at Mr. Parker’s
request, been appointed to inquire into the charges
made against him, and that should satisfy all
demands for investigation. The only thing it
won’t satisfy is Mr. Spear’s thirst for being prose-
cuted.
At Poverty Point.
“ A.D.” : Re your remarks (9/8/’O2) “ that Rostand and
Gross got their respective versions of ‘ Cyrano de Ber-
gerac ’ from the same source, which in itself is a satire on
the Academy’s exaltation of Rostand’s genius.” Surely
it will be admitted that the Academy crowned the work
for its exquisite literary quality, not for its story. There
are countless versions of the legend of Dr. Faust, but
those of Marlowe and Goethe are best known. Other
versions possibly have more incident, but the first two
take the palm for literary and philosophic merit. So
with “ Antony and Cleopatra.” Sedley’s has more gore
and melodramatic effect. Dryden’s is more coherent, and
preserves the unities better. Sardou’s is more adapted
to the modern stage than Shakespeare’s version, but the
latter’s will be remembered when the others are for-
gotten. Anyhow, a Sheecago judge’s opinion on literary
matters isn’t necessarily infallible. Rostand’s letter to
a friend on the matter is characteristic : “ I confess I
stole ‘ L’Aiglon ’ from Tom Sambo’s minstrel of Spring-
field, 111. The idea of ‘La Samaritinne ’ was derived
from an aprocryphal Gospel by the Rev. Hon. G. H. Augus-
tus YVormacott, of Hartford, Conn. I may add that, at
the present moment, I am in negotiation with a Virginian
planter for the purchase of a MS., and I have caused to
be stolen from a Louisiana ship-broker a grand play on
Joan of Arc, the Maiden of New Orleans.”
Veteran R. S. Smythe was so “knocked” by Henry
Lee’s performance of Cyrano de Bergerac that he had to
express his admiration in a letter to the actor. A travelled
Frenchman who has seen the hero of Rostand’s drama
played by several artists of repute reckons that Lee is
better than anybody— except Coquelin. This sounds
strange to Australians who have known Lee only as a
somewhat heavy and mannered impersonator of historical
personages on the variety stage, but it is quite in accord-
ance with the testimony of Kyrle Bellew. Speaking of
Lee in ’96, vvhen he first brought his “Great Men” to
Australia, friend “Curly” remarked that his “imper-
sonation ” entertainment gave the public no idea of his
fine powers as an actor.
“ Melb.” : Cyrano makes too much of a draft on the
knowledge of a modern English-speaking audience. A
host of intelligent people say they don’t know what it is
all about, and it is not worth knowing. I would give a
lot of Cyrano knowledge for a little more about the Com-
monwealth. I would give a lot of French for a little more
German. Also, a lot of Latin for a little more Greek.
Like many more, I began with the wrong tongues.
Another success in London has been made by the Aus-
tralian, Oscar Asche, as Master Ford, in “The Merry
Wives of YVindsor,” at the Haymarket. According to
some outspoken critics, Asche outshone all the men in
the piece, including Beerbohm Tree, the fashionable
manager, who murdered Ulysses some time since, but
who to the lickspittle press is as unimpeachable an insti-
tution as the House of Lords.
With what sort of a stage character has Haddon
Chambers caught the fancy of Sarah Bernhardt on the
one hand, and Nellie Stewart on the other? Stated as a
fact that Sarah intends to play the heroine in a French
translation of Had. Cham.’s new work, whilst Nellie
creates ’’ the part for Australia. But it was the Cable’s
statement, and the Cable has such a very lively
tlo !'"' herß the preliminary advertising of a Musgroveian
or Wilhamsonian show is concerned.
Madame Lydia Yeamans-Titus, the sweet-voiced mimic
now at Melbourne Opera House, should be tolerably used
to her singing-baby turn (her trade mark) by now, as she
has been doing it almost nightly for a score or more of
years. And she has become so familiar with it that there
is not the faintest deviation in action, or difference in the
inflection of her voice, on any night. Madame was formerly
Miss Lydia Yeamans, and has probably found the devo-
tion of a beautiful though small voice to mimicry a much
more paying game than the concert platform. But the
organ s early training must have been excellent.
A.E. M. : With all the available talent Rickards has
at present in Australia, what an ideal vaudeville pro-
gramme of say, nine or ten turns could be arranged 1
bandow and Cinquevalli would, of course, be the biggest
stars with the Florenz Troupe, Peggy Pryde, Jackson
Fanuly Derenda and Breen, the Nawns, Lydia Titus, and
either Callaghan and Mack or Fagan and Byron compris-
ing the rest of the programme.
Maggie Moore seems to have picked up some fairly good
comedies in America this last trip. “The Widow from
Japan,” for instance, is a wildly improbable name-part
calculated to suit Maggie very will. She descends upon
the household of her son-in-law as a giddy actress from
Japan, and when he has palmed her off as somebody else
and gone mad after the manner of all young husbands
who descend to deceit in farcical comedies, the calami-
tous visitor turns out to be his disguised mother-in-law.
.this must be the first case on stage record of a plump lady
pretending to be the actress who used to tickle her
daughter’s husband before he lapsed into respectable
married life. And a new brand of mother-in-law deserves
encouragement, anyhow.
May Yohe, the much-advertised future duchess (of
Newcastle) whose future duke divorced her a while ago
seems to have made an awful mess of her infidelity.’
Colonel Strong, the co-respondent in the case, promised
to marry May, but a recent cable stated that the gallant
Colonel had got away with her jewellery, pawned it for
£lOOO, and sent the pawn-tickets to his mother with a
note to the effect that he would commit suicide shortly
May Yohe is another addition to the long list of actresses
who, after taking down” every well-to-do fellow who
got infatuated with them, have been eventually taken
down themselves by a bounding adventurer. The actress
and the barmaid are the representative female “ fly-flats ”
of this world. They get to know such a lot about men
that at last they believe in nobody except the most prac-
tised of deceivers. The cunning trickstress is the cunning
trickster s softest snap. 6
One London paper, the Lady’s Realm, published full
accounts of the original Coronation functions which didn’t
take place. The performance at Covent Garden Theatre
was quite severely criticised. Jean de Reszke had lost
some of his wonderful power, Melba’s singing was no
better than it ought to have been, one of the other princi-
pals was “ distinctly disappointing,” and the prices it
was stated, fell with a sickening thud at the last moment.
And yet there never was any last moment, or any per-
formance. Said that the Coronation number of Lady’s
Realm sold at fancy prices as a historical work of fiction
—exposed fiction. The market price for newspaper fiction
is always normal, except when circumstances divulge its
untruthfulness. 8
“ Nani ” : “ Vul.” (Bul. 2/8/2), re Cinquevalli’s catching
a cannon-ball on back of neck, terms it “a unique feat.”
It, daringly and cleverly executed though it be, is cer-
tainly not such. I have seen it done by others, notably
by a certain Holtum, a Dane. “Cannon-ball” Holtum
he was called, from his really wonderful manipulation of
these projectiles. He used to throw a 321 b. shot to a
height and let it fall on the nape of his neck, but he did
not retain and balance it there as Cinquevalli does. He
also caught a ball fired from a cannon. The ball had not
the initial velocity of a shell from a Krupp gun, but it
travelled fast enough to hinder anybody else from attempt-
ing the feat. Apropos, I remember a street-performer
who threw a large raw potato—previously passed round
for inspection about 30 feet into the air, and allowed it
to descend on his forehead, where it smashed itself
There are many ways of making a crust besides jour-
nalism. J
Manager Williamson has sent Harold Ashton to S’Africa
to inquire into the prospects of an Australian theatrical
export trade with that country. The jingoism of English-
speaking showmen is at least animated by a pure com-
mercial spirit of loyalty to the language. By the way
when is J.C.W. going to send an Australian co. to
America ?
The net profit on the amateur “ Runaway Girl ” per-
formances, at Melbourne, is understood to have been
£2OO or thereabouts.
Alice Crawford got good notices in S’Africa for
her playing of the Queen-mother to Wilson Barrett’s
Hamlet. Alice is 24. The first time she was given the
elderly part (in Maoriland), she said to the august YV.B.,
“ I suppose I shall be Ophelia by the time I’m 48.” The
future is full of compensation for a stage-girl. If she
sticks to her business, and doesn’t die in the meantime,
she has the hero half mad for love of her fresh young
beauty when she’s 48. And the hero is usually a gallant
experienced boy of 60, which makes her triumph all the
more enviable.
“ A private concert given here ” (writes The Bulletin’s
London correspondent) “ this ill-fated Coronation week
by Mrs. Cooper, the latest millionairess, cost in fees for
artists and artistes alone, £750. ‘La Ballade de D6sesper6,’
by Bemberg, was said and sung in duet by Sarah Bern-
hardt and Melba, accompanied by the composer. Herr
Arens, Plaugon, the great French baritone, M. Coquelin,
the celebrated French actor, and one or two others filled
the bill, which was truly great.”
From Wellington, M.L.:—Things theatrical are kept
going here, chiefly by the Pollards and the fast-prospering
'» former, at Opera House, are doing “ The Messenger
™y to splendid takings. Wonderful how this versatile
combination draws ; if pushed, it would be quite equal to
putting on ‘‘Sign of the Cross,” “Rigoletto” and
Hamlet” consecutively, and including in each the
same uneven, knock-kneed ballet and wet-nosed ballads.
Hix, at the Royal, has a really good show, the only
objection to which is that eight out of the ten turns sing
and talk about split pants.
Circusman Tom Fitzgerald, back from N.Q., extols
that part of Australia as an unexcelled winter
resort for shivering Southernites. His panegyric is
worthy of Artemus Ward at his best—only-that the Fitz
1S W < e . earnest. He says the cost of a trip to Japan
and back would maintain one in luxury’ up North for six
months, and keep the money in the country.
The story, published by a Yankee paper, of how Melba
discovered a wonderful Australian singer named Miss
Muriel Mayston at Monaco, looks as though it must have
been intended for contradiction. Tiib Bulletin is
solemnly informed that Miss Muriel Mayston, a Melbourne
singer, has never been out of Melbourne. Therefore, it is
certa'n she wasn’t the Miss M.M. whom Melba discovered,
if there ever was such a person.
While the cable lines were clear t’other
Sunday, a trial of speed was made on the Cape
cable to London, with Perth, Cocos, Rodriguez,
Mauritius, Durban, Capetown, St. Helena,
Ascension Island, St. Vincent, and Porthcurnow
in circuit. When all was ready Adelaide sent a
short message and leceived a reply (both via the
Cape) in three minutes !
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.


MOIR’S
Table-Jelly Powder
In Pint Packets. Assorted Flavours.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
ißGsenss
THE
Coronation Spoon
A Special Treasure to British
People in Far-off Lands.
Size
of Spoons !
4 3 A&VA
In Solid Silver or Gold. Price from 8/-» post free. Designed
and manufactured by Pearce and Sons, Silversmiths, Hud-
dersfield, England, by whom it is being sent to all parts of
the World.
liver
gistoric Sift for 1902.
If you have an 1837 Souvenir of Queen
Victoria’s Coronation you know its
value, and will he anxious to secure
early the choicest Historic Souvenir
of KING EDWARD VII. This
registered emblematic spoon is a
rg
new departure in souvenirs: a rare combination of the
beautiful, valuable, historic, and useful. No marriage
presents will be complete without a set of these emblematic
spoons. A gift for every Child of the Empire born in
this Coronation Year. No Souvenir could be more highly
appreciated. Send for illustrations of Sizes and Prices-
The Historic Gift of 1902.
Description— The Bust of the King, surmounted by His Crown
the reverse bearing the Rose, Thistle, and Shamrock—Great Britain and
Ireland ; these support the Royal Monogram, E.R. VII., 1902, and are up-
held by Iris-like leaves, each representing one of our Great Possessions;
the leaves uniting form the Empire Stem. The Roots of this Empire
Plant run round the Royal Arms, the Emblem of our Constitution,
right into the Heart of the Peoples.
Special Attention and Care given to
Golonial and Foreign Orders.
Colonials and those Abroad will affect a real Saving of Money in
; purchasing direct from Messrs. Pearce & Sons. Send for their
Pictorial Price list of Solid Silver Novelties and High-Class
Presents.
PEARCE & SONS , Silversmiths, &o. r
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
ear
C
ft.tJ
O
e
©
Nl
&
T
19
02
©
R D N
38349
MOTHER
CURATIVE
/ AN IDEAL TONIC
/ is one that restores tone and efficiency to the
stomach, liver and kidneys impaired through
worry, overwork, climatic changes, unhealthy at-
mosphere in factory or office, disease or any other
cause. It promotes the thorough digestion and assimi-
lation of food, which are the foundation of good health.
Such a tonic is Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup. Mr.
Alex. Cochrane, Eva St., Tooranga, Victoria, in a letter
describing how he had for five years suffered from acute
indigestion and been completely cured by Mother Seigel s
Curative Syrup, says. “ Though it is eighteen months since I
took the last dose I feel better and stronger than ever I did in
my life before.” Such is the power of Mother Seigel’s Curative
Syrup. V
MADE FROM ROOTS AND HERBS.
sdr
OWEN’S DANCING POWDER
For Ballroom Floors.
No Preparation Required.
Sprinkle it on the Floor.
The Dancers do the Rest.
2s. 6d. Packet covers
600 feet.
Sample Packet sent on
receipt of'B stamps.
H. OWEN, 436 Collins-St., Melbourne
Business, Robbery, etc.
“J.F.”: Be Sydney firm advertising for man,
to see how many of its own hands would apply. A man
out of work advertised for a smart man—“man just
leaving job preferred.” Got 17 replies, and then went
round applying for the billets which his correspondents
stated they were just vacating. At the fifth try he struck
an employer who “didn’t think Mr. Smith intended
leaving ” : but when shown Smith’s application for a new
job, the boss took the smarty on out of pique. The
“ fly ” man ended by showing the employer a point. In
fact, the latter might have known that a man who would
work such a trick would go “ cronk ” first opportunity.
• * • . *
There was a grand gamble open to anyone who
“ knew something ” as late as June 9th. On that day the
rate for insuring at London Lloyd’s against postponement
of the Coronation was 2s. 6d. per cent.— Boo to 1 against !
And just two weeks later the postponement was an-
nounced.
• * » *
Re loss of telegraph-forms (8., 5/7/’O2), this is a
bigger item than may be thought. At one Q. office (not
Brisbane) the annual return of messages sent and forms
supplied, for one year, showed a leakage of one hundred
thousand forms —which, at 3s. per thousand, means £l5.
What is the Commonwealth’s loss ? In a broker’s office
writer saw a pile being used for memoranda.
* * * *
Telegraph-forms are largely stolen by small
publicans who don’t subscribe to race-news-agencies.
They get news by ’phone and then transfer to a tele-
graph-form to be posted up in a conspicuous posi-
tion. The leakage must be large, as the ordinary man
uses two forms to word his message properly, and I have
myself seen a woman use seven forms, and then the mes-
sage read “ Yes Six.”
* » * •
The attention of H. Gyles Turner, late of the
Commercial Bank (Melb.), is specially directed to the fact
that numbers of (valueless) £lO notes of the defunct
Provincial and Suburban Bank are now being “put
off ” in Melbourne by some smart forgers. There
is nothing unusual about this—but it is the sort of
thing that doesn’t happen to a State Bank. By way of
another case in point: About two years ago an aged
bushman—a bush fossil from Queensland’s farthest back
—came into civilisation with his little fortune. He ex-
plained that he had found himself in possession of a good
sum of money in his middle life, and had hoarded it
away as a provision for his old age. He hadn’t been able
to add to it, but he had kept the original sum intact, and
being now past work he meant to retire on it. Then he
put the little fortune on the bank counter for safe keep-
ing. It was in notes of the Bank of Queensland, which
perished in 1866, and the paper was just as valuable
as Hannibal’s I O U. That also is the sort of thing that
seldom happens to a State Bank.
• * ■ * *
“Eller”: Re faked liquors (B. 12/7/’O2). On
our way to camp at George’s Basin (N.S.W.) once, we
bought a bottle of (ostensible) Usher’s whisky, but found
the cork, when drawn, bore the name of a well-known
N.S. W. brewing firm burnt-in. Yet the bottle, externally,
looked as if it had never been tampered with. Why don’t
bottlers attend to such a detail as the cork ?
* * • *
“ J.F.D.” : Visiting a Sydney publican, t’other
day, I took from his bookshelf an American encyclopaedia
of recipes, Which opened of itself at “ Imitation brandy
and whisky—2B recipes.” Significant! [Nothing secret
about this book. It Was openly advertised (and maybe
still) for sale in a trade-organ well circulated among
Australian publicans.—Ed. B.]
* * * *
Auckland (M.L.) papers are agitating for the
shiling-per-week telephone, on the ground that the Id.
post and 6d. telegram have proved profitable. The pro-
posal will need serious consideration, but meanwhile the
P.M.G. of every Australasian State might make a decent
turnover by establishing public bureaux from which men
could ring-up the wife when out with the best girl, to
inform the old Dutch that there was a terrible rush of
business on at the office, which makes it impossible to
come home to dinner, my dear. Any man would gladly
pay 3d. for the facilitation of this harmless little lie.
* * * *
“S.P.”: Vic. mill-owners seem just now to be
struggling hard to ruin their own trade. Ever since the
collapse of the Flour-Millers’ Association prices have been
everywhere cut to the utmost, apparently without any
thought of the total smash that must inevitably come to
many. At present, a balance-sheet showing no loss is a
rare exception. Cash has to be paid for wheat, but the
product is sold on terms —often covering several months
— and sold below par at that. And yet people continue
to put their money into such a rotten business. Com-
panies are floated, boom for a bit, bleed the shareholders
dry, then go bung ; and another co. rises from the ruins ;
and so on afresh. The individual mill-owner can’t make
a living, and either goes insolvent or, more prudently,
shuts down. Rarely the latter, however, as everyone is
waiting “ for things to change,” but making no attempt
to help that change. A great evil is the reciprocal dis-
trust of the millers, which prevents them banding
together to bring about a wholesomer state of the trade.
• * * *
There is a big slump in butter-factory property
throughout Victoria. The once phenomenally prosperous
Fresh Food and Storage Co. is feeling the fall of late.
Home-separators have made the small dairying “ cookies”
independent of the citv octopus.
♦ * * *
The Bill to come before N.S.W. Parliament
obliging firms to register the true names of the pro-
prietors is energetically pushed by Hebrew influence to
get at pious Christians from England and Ireland who
run loan-offices and such like institutions under Jewish
names.
* * • *
“ N. 8.” : A swaggie intending to go from Syd-
ney to Bourke (N.S.W.) told me that he would get on a
train without a ticket, and when he reached Bourke.
would do li days’ gaol. Explained that it would take six
or seven weeks to tramp it, with hard graft and little
tucker all the way, so that he would save time and get
food by sneaking a Wain-trip'.- 1
* * * *
The newest thing in insolvents : A Melbourne
official assignee has filed. Main trouble —having unre-
munerative estates to deal with. Few of the estates that
go into Melb. Insolvency Court nowadays are remunera-
tive. Nearly half belong to small railway and other
public employees, who have drifted into the hands of the
public service money-lenders. 1
* * » *
There promises henceforth to be a good deal of
Australian fruit shipped direct to Continental Europe
per the big French and German liners. There is plenty
of room for foreign competition in this trade, fruit-
shippers being at present not too tenderly treated by the
British carrying co’s.
» * * *
A civil servant (now ex-civil servant) of 30 odd
years’ service Suffered at the hands of a tardy Nemesis in
a neighboring State. ‘ Some 20 years ago Govt, called
tenders for a supply of timber. The c.s. gave the tip to
a “ great friend,” and the great friend was successful
tenderer, and made enough out of the contract to start a
pub. Their offsprings consisted of a son each (the cussed-
ness of things—if one had only been a girl!) and the pair
both (more cussedness) grew up with a desire to go on
the land, and (stiß more cussedness) the same piece of
land. The c.s. appealed to the great friend to “ remem-
ber what I did for you once.” The g.f. admitted the
obligation, but couldn’t, in fairness to his son, forego an
application for .this piece of land. A Gazette, notice, some
little while after, showed the c.s.’s son in possession of
the land. Then the g.f. took out the hoarded documents
as to his successful tender for the timber contract, and
sent them to thy c.s.’s chief, Investigation, and the c.s.
asked to leave the department.
♦ * * *
Availing themselves of the reduced rates on
fodder for starving stock, a northern N.S.W. firm lately
managed to get a quantity of potatoes trucked as fodder,
and undersold local farmers who had been holding their
spuds for a rise.
* • * « •
The very latest spieling dodge is that of the
person who arrested a man as he came out of the train at
Melbourne, took him aside and searched him, and then
decided that he had made a mistake and set the prisoner
free. The alleged ’tec was gone before the staggered vic-
tim discovered" that a good deal of the property taken
Out of his pockets during the search had departed also.
Something Aboriginal.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Kendall’s poem on the “Last of his Race,” he
mentions “the nulla, the sling, and the spear.
Kendall was evidently not aware that the sling,
like the bow and arrow, was absolutely unknown
on the Australian continent. The sling was the
favorite weapon of the New. Caledonia aborigines,
and they could use it to some purpose, as was
promptly discovered by the French soldiers in
their first conflicts with the primitive inhabitants.
The intense conservatism and spirit of isolation
of the Australian tribes is nowhere more sharply
illustrated than in the northern point of Cape
York Peninsula. There I found that the Straits
islanders, who are pure Papuans, were using the
bow and arrow of New Guinea, and the woomera
and woomera spear of the Cape York Australians,
obtaining the latter by barter. Though this
barter must have continued for unknown hundreds
or thousands of years, the Australian copied
nothing from the Papuan. You expect a reason,
and I surmise that the Australian aborigine repre-
sents the oldest living race of mankind, in the
stage when all weapons are thrown or used as a
club, long before the advent of the bow and arrow.
The deltoid throwing-muscle of the Australian
aboriginal is more developed than in any other
race at present in existence. An old grey-headed
myall, or a youth of 16, or a thin eight-stone man
of any age, whose muscles are in working order,
can throw a missile with a force that the most
robust white cricketer could only feebly imitate.
The old, grey-haired blackfellow who speared
Sub-Inspector H. P: Kaye on the Woolgar, west
of Cooktown, on Sept. 14, 1881, was about 60
years of age, and certainly not more than Bst.,
yet he jerked the woomera spear from under his
arm and drove it through lungs, heart and chest,
and Kaye fell dead from his horse into the grass.
A white man was speared beside me, in 1881, on
Liverpool Creek; the black palm woomera spear
was driven through him, and penetrated the grass-
tree beside which he was standing, so that it had to
be cut out with a tomahawk.
The Australian aboriginal with the boomerang,
nulla, and woomera spear is to be credited with
making the most formidable wooden weapons men-
tioned in the history of mankind. With him, the
wooden weapon had reached the maximum
development, and there was no further stage of
evolution.
The woomera spear, when properly made and
effectively thrown, is a much deadlier weapon
than the bow and arrow. The return boomerang,
weighing from 4oz. to 90z., will either mal e
frightful gashes and ricochet, or go clean through
a man. I have seen a boomerang, striking
end-on, go through a gin. pine board as_ if
it were a sheet of paper. The Australian aborigi-
nal, being in the “ throwing stage,” has therefore,
so far, not adopted the weapons of any other race.
In the early history of Victoria, two or three
aborigines were at large, with rifles and ammuni-
tion, and did considerable damage, but their
example was never imitated. It is a curious fact
that hundreds of aborigines have since been
owners of firearms and skilled in using them, and
yet there are not more than four deaths credited
to firearms in the hands of pure-blooded abori-
gines in the last 50 years of Australian history !
The astounding conservatism which prevented
one tribe from either adopting the weapons or
learning the dialect of another, was curiously
illustrated by the distribution of the woomera
spear and boomerang, and the separation of two
dialects by a river, or range of mountains, or an
arm of the sea.
The woomera spear in use by the Sydney blacks,
and thence round the Australian continent, west-
ward and northward and eastward to the Cape
York peninsula, stopped abruptly on the east
coast at the Bellenger River, and from there
north for 1200 miles was unknown until it re-
appeared at Townsville beyond the Burdekin.
The return boomerang was absolutely unknown
in Cape York Peninsula, or anywhere north
of Mackay, until taken there by blacks from
boomerang-throwing tribes.
Three entirely different dialects were spoken
on Stradbrooke, Morton, and Bribie Islands,
though all three are in sight of each other. Three
different dialects were spoken on Fraser’s Island,
the negatives being “warr,” “wacca,” and
“cabbee.” Still, as there are three entirely
distinct languages—English, Gaelic, and Welsh —
and numerous dialects, spoken on the very small
island of Great Britain, and an astonishing
variety on the continent of Europe, two languages
being occasionally only separated by a river or
range of mountains, this is less extraordinary than
it looks.
The Australian aborigine must die with his
language and his weapons. All three will become
extinct together. It is well that it should be so,
for one is not worth preserving without the other.
They are doomed —that ancient and venerable
Trimurti.
The Australian aborigine has come down to
the present direct from the first-born of Human
Protoplasm, when it was breathed on by the spirit
of Life, rocked in the cradle of the Primeval Deep,
and lullabied by the music of wild Silurian storms
far back in the misty morning of the World.
Weirdly and unspeakably pathetic is the picture
of that rapidly-disappearing ancient race, of whom
the few melancholy survivors stand to-day amid
the oldest existing flora and fauna—the gloomy
Araucarias, the feathered Macrozamias, the black-
stemmed Xanthorrhea, the last of the Marsu-
pialia, and the Dipnoid Ceratodus, “Children of
Elder Time,” the Deep of the present calling unto
the Deep of the Mesozoic through the measureless
Ether and the awful silence of unknown ages
recorded only in the Doomsday annals of God ! !
QUEENSLAND.
ARCHIBALD MESTON.
An Episode.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Noon, on a bush-section. A thin, small-boned
wiry-looking woman at the wood-heap of a small
bush-whare, splitting a large rata-log with the
aid of maul and wedges. As she works she
listens for a cry from her sleeping first-born and
wonders wearily if her husband will return that
night or stay in the township to spend the £lO
due to him for railway-timber. A shadow falls
across the log, and she is confronted by one of the
bad class of ‘ ‘ swaggers ” —one of the men who'
have been the cause of many honest but unfortu
nate travellers being shunted.
“What do you want here?” asks the woman,
sharply.
“ Is the boss in, missus ? ”
“Yes, he’s in all right; and he’ll soon be out if
you don’t clear.”
A fitful wail is heard from the whaiA : “ Why
don’t you look after that chi’d, Tom?” cries the
woman to an imaginary man n the house.
The child’s cry comes louder.
‘ ‘ Guess Tom must be dead,” the man says with
a ghastly grin, and seats himself on the log.
The woman strikes desperately at theiwedge until
it is driven right home. The child’s cry ceases.
“I don’t want much, missus, but what I want I
mean to have. I want a good square feed, in the
first place ; some tucker to carry me on the road,
and a kiss. I might be satisfied with one; but
we’ll see about that later on.”
The woman’s face hardens suddenly, and she
thinks a second of the hammer in her hand ; and
then her eye is caught by the crack in the log. It
has crept almost to where the man is seated.
“ Meet anyone on the track as you came along?”
she asks, starting another wedge alongside the
first.
‘ ‘ Not a soul, missus; so don’t let that worry
you.”
The split travels along the log till it is an inch
wide where the man is seated. The woman’s face
softens into a pleasant smile as a fold of greasy
cloth drops into the crack. Bang! one well-
directed blow and both wedges fall to the ground.
Two minutes suffice to loose the dogs—one of
them half-bull, and the best pig-dog in the district.
Towards evening the woman might have been
seen gathering pieces of cloth from the log and
the first wire fence for patching purposes.
M.L.
RAUPO.


That remarkable trade society, the Car-
penters and Joiners, which takes in four continents,
htus now 67,018 members and £181,665 cash.
With one exception, the increase in membership
was, last year, the poorest for 12 years ; while the
funds went back over £20,000. Average pay for
the year in England ran to s|d. per hour in the
country to lOJrd. in London. In Ireland the top
pay is B£d. ; in Scotland 7d. is lowest, and lOd.
(Clyde and Glasgow) highest. In the TJ.S. it runs
from lOd. to 2s. Id., the latter in New York : in
Canada from 74d. to Is. 4£d. ; in Australia from Is.
(Ballarat and Hobart) to Is. Bd. (Charters Tow rs'
and Is. lOid. (Coolgardie and Kalgoorlie).
Speaking at an L.O.L. lodge at Korum-
burra (Vic.), Bro. Snowball said :
The Right Hon. Joseph Chamberlain once said:
“ Thank God, the Bible is still worth fighting for.”
Can anyone verify ? The B. has an excessively
bad opinion of Joseph Chamberlain, but never
suspected him of that degree of cant.
Methodist Times on Rhodes’ will :
Public opinion will deceive itself if it thinks such things
can atone for a past which is now bearing such terrible
fruit, not only in war and devastation, but in the
debauchery of political life, political statesmanship, and
the political press.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s (Ltd.))
CIRCULAR-POINTED PENS )
Seven Prize Medals Awarded.
Neither scratch nor
spurt, the points
being rounded by a
new process.
Attention is also
drawn to their new
“CRADUATED
SERIES OP
PENS.”
■ ■
gs
•Jl
9
312 H
Each pattern being made in four degrees of flexibility and Points.
Ask your storekeeper for an Assorted Sample Box of either series. Works: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND
Hearne’s Bronchitis Core.
THE FAMOUS 'FtFIvrFPY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA. ’
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing Hoarsened Pain
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure If is m t
folding in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develon
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dnso
*nd a Complete Cure is certain. egmmng, a close is generally sufficient,
OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION
TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —I am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks. —Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
email bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenvvellyn,
“ Katunga, Vic.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very had coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now’, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.’’
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my ow n doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and" was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better w'hen, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.’
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows “As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,’
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir
yours most respectfully,
'“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“ Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
tune I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well. —Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.’’
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville
Queensland, writes .—“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it ”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states-—“'i
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE
BRANCH DEPOT
- PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARN E, Chemist; > Geelong, Victoria,.
o® ce: First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street Svdnev Tel
Sma Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Fast to any 9 Address when not obtainable Locally.
The SMELTING & REFINING CO
of AUSTRALIA
Momna
aval
H3AIIS
JO
KJK-I N I Tran
cinv
sumtmives
‘lo6l
" 1, -11-"0, 3L*a,lx.€3 Illa'warj’
(56 MILES FROM SYDNEY)
1 i
Assay Offices, General Offices, Store and Sulph
uric Chamber.
Highest Price paid for GOLD, SILVER, LB .ID and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, and JEWELLERS’ SWEEP, &c.
For all information regarding Rates, apply to HEAD OFFICE, DAPTO.
MAKERS Of
S. Co, of Australia
AND
“ ILLAWARRA’'
BRANDS OF
SOFT LEAD.
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of A ssas.
W. L. HOYT, Manager.
“Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medicaj Record.
“‘Benge:' 6 Food’
has by its excellence
established a repu-
taton of its own.”
British Medical Record.
Bet
For Infants,
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
Invalids , and the Aged. Delicious , Nutritive, and Ligsstibls
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., E rerywher@-
Extracts'from Private
Letters.
“ My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
el.ild it would be difficult
t > find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Benger’s
Food’ everywhere.”
“ If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


The latest variant. The recipient of a
N.S.W. Govt, order for a shilling or two’s worth,
issued in honor of the Coronation which did not
come olf, endorsed her order to her storekeeper,
“This is as good as cash. Send coupons.”
They have no special consideration for
Gent One in England. A leading solicitor in
Worcester, ex-mayor, County councillor, &c., has
just received seven years penal servitude for
misappropriation, though most of the big men of
the county attended to give him the highest
character as a public man.
The feelings that actuate some people
would puzzle Solomon. Some days ago a man at
Temora (N.S. W.) was sent to gaol for two months
(the P.M. regretted he couldn’t give him more), for
brutality to a harmless little tyke that had not
even sniffed at him as an excusable provocation.
After kicking and beating it to death, he knelt on
it, and pummelled it with his fists and knees till
every bone was c usned.
“ Paterfamilias ” writes to the Argus on
the administration of the Vic. Truancy Act—•
“ what may happen to a man in Victoria”: —
For not sending two children to school the required
number of attendances I was, at a court of petty sessions,
fined 2s. 6d. each, in default 48 hours. The children had
been sick. Having been out of employment for several
weeks, I decided to take it out. I was sent to Melbourne
Gaol to do a sentence of 48 hours for a ss. fine. I was
herded with criminals, my description, height, weight,
marks, religion, where born, what ship I arrived in,
taken down by a prisoner, after which I had to strip in
the presence of a warder, and while a prisoner was turn-
ing my clothes and pockets inside out I was told to take
a bath. Eventually I landed in a cell with two others
about 5 p.m., with my bed under my arm, a few inches of
candle, and one match, being cautioned if it missed fire
not to howl out, as I would not get another one. At 8
a.m. next morning I received my first meal for 24 hours,
a pint of hominy. In the afternoon I had solitary and
some oakum to pick. At 4 p.m. more hominy, and then
locked up without the bed, and one match, till 9 p.m.,
when I was let out.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If 80, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
» ( *7»sed to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CUKE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured,
tend at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
Price, in Great Britain, 1/lid. per box. Prepared by
A 1 BEK I, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents •• ELLIOTT BliOS., Sydney.. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
gieen label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
DRUNK CURED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
IUTSee my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, igoi, wherein I agree to
accept ioo Test Cases, and prove that my
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliable remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions, no
hypodermic injections. Full particulars free.
W. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S.. Eng.,
68 Russell St., Melbourne.
ENNESS
30 Days’ Trial.
m
a
V' '
We grant every purchase*
of our
EL EC TRIO
KELTS and
AT ELI A NCR 8
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Eleotrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing:, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
TOOTH
POWDER
IS THE BEST DENTAL
PRESERVATIVE.
Has the Largest Sale of any Dentifrice.
Sold by Chemists, Stores, &c.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
.MM—im
SPOONER’S
SPOONER’S
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
LOVELY COLORS
BRILLIANT
GLOSS.
REJECT
IMITATIONS.
:v
,-'i
*
»»
1
LLS
EB
FECTi
gsn^ooN;
m
LO
,y
/m
See that Asp!nail’s name
and Medals are stamped
on every Tin.
MANUFACTURED BY
ASPINALL’S ENAMEL, Ltd., NEW GROSS,
lONSSON, ENGm
Dr. Clarkson’s Electric Belt
will fill your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give you new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years* study and
experiments. It is unlike any of the old style belts, and is warranted to be stronger
han any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without any
for renewals or repairs.
Or. Clarkson’s Re-Invigorator
brings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. It charges the Nerves with
renewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
vigour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
peptic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general collanse of all vital
parts, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-IN VIGOR ATOR
will biing happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and Organs is trulv wonderful.
„ . THEIR TOUCH IS MAGNETIC.
Price ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; RE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
V
* «
OAViJj OR WRITE—
OWL r c a u t t e drug store,
CORNER ELIZABETH AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.'
sSa jLJp C) "JStfBL •
SAVE YOUR
MONEY.
&
#
m WHERE TO
Sfy-
V
PROSPERSTY
CAN’T LAST FOR EVER WITHOUT THE
PUBLIC’S CONFIDENCE AND APPRECIATION,
Co,
%
SAVE YOUR
TIME.
m
Wma
EVIDENCE OF WHICH IS DAILY RE-
CEIVED IN THE FORM OF TESTI-
MONIALS AND GRATEFUL LETTERS
BY
Herr RASSMUSSEW
THE WORLD-FAMED DANISH
HERBALIST & BOTANIST,
PROPRIETOR OF THE
ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
REGISTERED.
A FEW WORDS TO THE UNINITIATED.
PERSONAL AND PERTINENT.—Those who have not met ITerr Rassmussen, and
who have not given his Alfaline Herbal Remedies a trial, may find it beneficial to become
acquainted with the good work which he has done in the interest of suffering humanity for
the last twenty years.
ALONG BACK IN THE BEGINNING OF THE EIGHTIES
Ilerr Rassmussen introduced his now world-famed Alfaline Herbal Remedies to the Australian public at 547 Geotv
Street, Sydney. Australia was then flooded with American importations and proprietary remedies, manufactured
by doubtful persons with assumed names and fictitious addresses, who took the' people’s money without
responsibility, and very often without giving them fair value for same.
HERR RASSMJ3SEN BROUGHT ABOUT A REVOLUTION
by straightforward and fair dealings with the public, offering to stake his reputation and future if his remedies
were not as efficacious as he claimed them to be, accepting all responsibility, and willing to abide by the people’s
verdict.
THE HAPPY RESULT IS KNOWN TO EVERYONE.
Over twenty years have passed away, hundreds of remedies have come and gone—many of them were forced on
the public in numerous designing ways—thousands of pounds spent on advertising same with the assistance of the
world's greatest experts in laying traps for the unwary; but the public would have none of them, and they have
disappeared as suddenly as a flash of lightning.
“THE ALFALINE REMEDIES EXCELL ALL OTHERS,”
and are well known to be more popular to-day than they have ever been. They have not only obtained, but
have retained the goodwill and confidence of the Australian public, and have become famous throughout the
civilized world. The first Sydney Office not only yet exists, but offices have been opened up for their sale at
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Wellington, N.Z., and in West Australia at Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie and
Boulder City, with Agencies throughout the world,
LET THE PUBLIC JUDGE FROM THE FOLLOWING:—
The Alfaline Remedies have held their own for over twenty years in Australia, and Herr Rassmussen has
been awarded the Parisian Acadamies’ Gold Medal and Diploma of Honour ; Gold Medal, Sydney, and several Silver
Medals; honourably mentioned in almost every newspaper in Australia; received many thousands of unsolicited
testimonials—every one of the originals open for inspection at his Offices. The Alfaline Remedies have never been
known to fail to cure in a single instance.
ARE THEY NOT WORTH A TRIAL?
if they are, why not try them today ? why leave it till to-morrow and, perhaps, lose your chance and time? No
order so small that it is not welcome ; no order so large that it cannot be executed at once. If you first wish
evidence of the efficacy of the Alfaline Remedies,
SEND FOR HIS FREE BOOK,
and read what the experienced have to say, and what the Australian newspapers have to say—the double distilled
extracts from the Press speak for themselves.
A FEW OF THE ALFALINE REMEDIES:
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS never fail to cure Nervous Diseases, Weak Spine,
Troubled Brain, Fatigued Nerves, Despondency, Poor Memory, Debility, Want of Confidence,
restore Vital Strength, and preserve the system against being affected by age more than any
known remedy. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; course, 23/6 posted.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS area permanent cure for all Chronic, Blood and Skin
Diseases, no matter how caused, or of how long standing—Blotches, Blood Disorders, Gravel,
Diseases of the Urinary Organs, etc., etc. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; courses, 23/6 posted.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS completely cure Wasting Diseases in Women
—Anaemia, Whites, Poverty of Blood, Sallow Complexion, Dull Eyes, aud act as a perfect
Blood and Nerve Tonic. Boxes, 6/- and 12/-; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE RHEUMATIC PILLS cure Rheumatism, Gout,Sciatica, Lumbago, Ravages
from Rheumatic Fever, Chalky Formation in the Joints. Boxes, 3/-, 6/-, and 12/-; courses, 23/6.
ALFALINE LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS remove all Stomach Troubles, Costive-
ness, Indigestion, Flatulence, Heartburn. Wind, Biliousness and Headache. Boxes, 1/-.
GENERAL ALFALINE REMEDIES.
Alfaline Pile Powders cure internal and external Piles, boxes 3/- and 6/- ; Varicocele
Powders, boxes 6/-; Blood Capsules or Globulus, 6/-; Fat Reducing Powders, which remove
Corpulency, 6/-; Hair Restorer, 6/-; Corn Cure, 1/-; Ointment, 1/-; Eucalyptus Oil and
Jujubes, boxes 1/-; Flesh-Producing Powders, 6/-; Complexion Beautifiers remove Pimples
and Freckles, 3/- and 6/-; Alfaline Embrocation removes all sorts of Muscular Pains, Stiff
Joints—good for Footballers, bottles 1/6 posted; Worm Tablets, 1/-; Headache Tablets,
Instant Cure, 1/- ; Soluble Quinine Pessaries, 5/- ; Electric Belts, Suspenders, Bandages,
Enemas, Glass Syringes, etc. Circulars with all particulars sent Free.
REMEDIES BY POST A SPECIALITY.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has made special arrangements for attending
personally to his Clients living in the Country, and letters will receive
most careful personal attention. Advice or information sent free and
unobserved. Patrons may rely on skilful, honest and confidential treatment.
His Remedies will he forwarded to sufferers, packed in plain cover and
unobserved, together with Advice and Directions. Letters should he addressed
to Herr Rassmussen’s full name—HANS PETER RASSMUSSEN—and
Registered if containing Money, and may be sent to any of
Herr Rassmussen’s Addresses:
Head Office : 547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
ALSO AT
MELBOURNE—ISO Bourke Street
BRISBANE—3O9 Queen Street
ADELAIDE —15 Pulteney Street
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington
W.A.—PERTH—4BI Hay Street
KALSOORLIE—Hannan Street
BOULDER CITY-Piesse Street
PREMANTLE-117 High Street
A FREE BOOK SENT ON APPLICATION,
with Advice, Testimonials, and List of Alfaline Remedies.


presents that mill Please
fOU cannot possibly be disappointed by visit-
ing us, so come here whether you have
a definite idea of what you want or not.
We offer you the biggest variety and the most
reasonable prices it is possible to offer.
If you have not seen our new Catalogue,
ask us for one. If you live out of town
send us your name and address on a post-
card and you will get one by return mail.
Ko. F 4703.
Silver-plated
and Pearl
Bread' Fork
11s 6d.
No. F3462.—Fine Leather, and Silver-
Mounted Pocket Book, .10a 6d.
wm
No. F3939.—Uent.’s Silver Hair
Brush, 21s.
No. 374 A.—6 Silver-plated Tea Spoons
and Tongs, 10s 6d.
No. 363. —A 1 Silver-plated Sugar Tongs,
3s 6d.
55-
No. 253. —Solid Silver Match Box, 10s 6d.
Silver
Glove
Buttoner,
Is 6d.
drg
sd
No. 20.—Gent.’s Opal
Ring, 18ct. gold,
£4 103.
No. EBo3l.—Tasteful 9ct. Gold Bangle, £ll7s. 6d.
No. B4S9o.—Dia-
mond Ruby and
18ct. Gold Ring-,
£3 103.
No. M.—lsct. Gold and Opal Fly Brooch, £llss.
No. 120.—15cfc. Gold, Diamond and lluby
Brooch, £2 7s 6d.
No. 121A.—15ct. Gold Anchor Brooch,
£ll2s 6d.
No. E6251.—0ct. Gold Bird and Heart
Brooch, 12s fid.
lCct. Gold Heavy Band Bracelet, £4 4s. Smaller, £3.
No. E6659.—9ct. Gold Engraved Bracelet, £l l7s 6d.
No. E7707.—0ct. Gold,
Pearl and Turquoise
Lace Brooch, £1 Is.
No. 193.—Links, Oct.
Gold, 15s 6d. 15c.
Gold, £llos. Silver,
4s 6d.
No. 197.—Links, 9cb. Gold,
£1 ss. 15ct. Gold, £2 ss.
Silver, 6s 6d.
Fine Diamond Marquise
Ring, £4O.
No. 241.
Diamond - set
Scarf Pin,
No. F6l2B.—Silver-plated Toast
Rack, 12s 6d.
i
F!3
STo. F3s62.—Silver Cabinet Photo.
Frame, 16s 6d.
No. E 6444. Engraved
A 1 Silver-plated Napkin
Ring, 5s 6d.
No. E 7072.— Silver
and Ivory Rattle,
13s 6d.
Fine Opal and 15ct.
Gold Heart, £5 5s
Smaller, 755.
No. E8499.-Purse and Card Case,
4 Silver Corners and Lock, £1 Is.
No. 359. —Silver-plated Breakfast
Cruet, 13s 6d.
Silver-plated
Spectacle
Case, 14s 6d.
NATURE’S GREAT PICK-ME-UP.
The Greatest Life Invigorator in the World.
Prof. LAWSON TAIT, M.D., wrote: “LAWSON TAIT highly recommends KUTNOW'S POWDER.”
CONVINCING
TESTIMONY.
SIR JOHN B. MONCKTON,
Town Clerk of London, writes:
“ Guildhall, London, E. 0., 4 Nov., 1901.
“ Gentlemen, —I have much satisfaction in stating that
for the last two years I have regularly used KUTNOWS
POWDER, with the result that Troublesome and Frequent
Attacks of Lumbago, with other Gouty Symptoms that
had troubled mb for years, seem to have entirely
DISAPPEARED.
“Yours truly,
“JOHN B. MONCKTON."
“49 Grange Street, Clayton-le-Moors,
“Nr. Accrington, Oct. Ist, 1901.
“ Dear Sirs, —Have much pleasure in very gratefully
acknowledging receipt of bottle of Kutnow’s Powder, and
I beg at the same time to give my testimony as to its
efficiency and value. It has in each case (when used by
me) given me material relief from acute indigestion.
“ I am, dear Sirs, yours truly,
“ (Rev.) JAS. WRIGHT,
“ Primitive Meth. Minister."
“ Addingham Vicarage
"Langwathby, R. 5.0., Cumberland,
“ April 3rd, 1901.
“ Dear Sirs,—l am much obliged for the bottle of Kut-
uow’s Powder. I consider it an excellent remedy for the
Liver and !•: dneys. It has the best advantage of being
pleasant to .ake.
“ Yours faithfully,
“(Rev.) T. W. STEPHENSON, Vicar."
HUNDREDS OF DOCTORS RECOMMEND IT.
THE MEDICAL JOURNAL (April, 1901) says:
i AS A SUBSTITUTE for the European medicinal spring treatment for CONSTIPA-
TION many eminent medical men and the most prominent medical journals have recom-
mended KUTNOW’S POWDER, as the same is a portable, economical, reliable, and very
agreeable remedy, extensively employed by the profession, to whose further attention it is
recommended. It exercises a beneficial effect on the liver, gall-bladder, kidneys, and
stomach. The flavor is refreshing, and it is readily taken by women and children. It has
also been successfully prescribed in diabetes and for the cori’ection of the lithic and uric
acid diathesis, with or without jaundice, constipation, acid dyspepsia, and hemorrhoids.
“ Its advantages,” says a medical correspondent, “ appear to arise from its possessing the
power to eliminate from the body the excess of bile and acids, thereby purifying the blood
and strengthening the general tone by improving the assimilative processes of the
debilitated system. Consequently it has a salutary effect in cases of hypochondriasis
associated with low spirits and general depression.”
For the above reasons KUTNOW’S POWDER has been employed, under the highest
medical authorities, for patients leading sedentary lives and those suffering from abnormal
accumulations of fat. For corpulent women, in particular, physicians will find it a pleasant
remedy when aided by the appropriate diet. The well-to-do classes, with leisure to com-
mand, periodically seek the cleansing and health-restoring medicinal Spas of the European
Continent. Of the million of sufferers, however, only comparatively very few are favored
by such fortunate circumstances as to enable them to indulge in the luxury of a trip to the
Continent. Therefore, as a boon to suffering humanity, Kutnow’s Powder won by sheer
sterling merit the approval of such authorities as Sir Spencer Wells, M.D., Professor
Lawson Tait, M.D., Sir Morell Mackenzie, M.D., Sir Andrew Clarke, M.D., and the most
eminent physicians everywhere.
Beware of Fraudulent Imitations.
KUTNOW’S POWDER may be obtained in capsuled bottles, of all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors. See that the Registered Trade Mark, “ Hirschensprung ” (or Deer
Leap), and the autograph facsimile signature, “ S. KUTNOW and CO. (Ld.),” are on the
label and carton. ONLY THESE ENSURE GENUINENESS. INSIST ON “ KUT-
NOW’S,” AND FIRMLY REFUSE ANY SUBSTITUTES ; THEY ARE WORTHLESS
AND OFTEN INJURIOUS.
TRIBUTE WHERE
TRIBUTE IS DUE.
“ Maplecote, WoodhouBe Eaves,
“ Leicestershire, May Bth, 1901.
“ Dear Sirs,—l have proved the great value of Kutnow’s
Powder even in extreme cases of delicate patients, and
should be glad of its being made more-widely known. J
have recommended it to a great many people, most ol
whom have received great benefit from its use and do
not like to be without it.
“ Yours faithfully,
“ (Nurse) L. BYWATER."
'* 402 West Ohelten Avenue,
“ Philadelphia, July 2nd, 1901.
“ Gentlemen,—l would now no more think of doing
without Kutnow’s Powder than my daily food. I only
wish every soul in the land used your powder, they
would experience great benefit. Four of my family be-
sides myself take your powder daily.
“ Cordially yours,
“ F. 11. GBIFFIN, M.D."
u 11th Coy. Ist Btn. Rifle Brigade,
“ Field Fo:02, .South Africa,
“ Uch May, 1901.
“ Gentlemen,—Thanks for Louie of Kutnow’s Powder
safely received. For years I have suffered severely from
Liver Complaint, contracted during my tour of service
with my Regiment in India. I commenced taking your
powder immediately I received it, and have felt most
beneficial effects from it. My appetite has returned, and
I may truthfully say I fee) better than I have for soma
years. I shall always recommend it.
“ Yours gratefully,
“ (8757) Pte. W. HAMPSON."
Great Chance for those Weary of Sickness
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 Parringdon Rd., London, E.C.
Proprietors In U.S.A.: KUTNOW BROS., LTD., 863 Broadway, Now York,


A tingling of the tender skin—a sudden sharp
stab from some angry nerve—then come piercing
paroxysms of pain.—That’s neuralgia.
Neuralgia—cruel, burning, nagging, agonising
neuralgia—neuralgia, making life unbearable.
No food—no sleep. No' strength—no peace.
Each day—distress, despair. Each night—a night-
mare.—That’s neuralgia.
Neuralgia—King of Torturers! The cause :
disordered nerves, thin blood. The cure
strong nerves, rich blood. The means of cure
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. -
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills still the stabbing
pains—soothe the nerves —strengthen the system—
purify the blood and cure neuralgia.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills strike at the root of
the trouble. They cure neuralgia when all other
treatments fail. Read this proof :—•
“The burning, piercing pains of neuralgia used to shoot
along the nerves of my face and head,” says Miss Charlotte E.
Hone, of Sawyer’s Creek. Binda, near Goulburn. “After an
attack my face would be quite sore—just as if it had been
bruised. My health was very irregular in every way. I could
neither eat nor sleep. All my strength seemed to vanish. My
face became white and my lips blue. Heart palpitation caused
me great suffering. But after using l)r. Williams’ Pink Pills for
three days I felt better. Before long the neuralgia left me and
my old strength returned. Now I eat and sleep well. My
cheeks are rosy and I enjoy perfect health.”
Dr. Williams Pink Pills.
Sold by all dealers, or sent post paid for 2s 9d a box, or six boxes for 15s 3d.
The Dr. AVilliams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney. C 5
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd
Price, 65., Postage Bd., from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
TOOTH & CO., Limited,
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
; '' ' ; ' ' - • : ■ -Vv ' >
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o DEFY GOMFETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only-of
&
SPIRITS
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, Sea.
Kent
SYDNEY
At Her Feet.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Acland rode into town at dawn and found Doctor
Clive in bed. He sent word to him that a woman
lay very ill at Percival’s selection.
“I feel sick and nervous,” said Clive, entering
the room.
The droop of his lower lip and the redness in
his eyes told a story which Acland was not slow
to read.
“ Take a straightener,” said he, “ and, for God’s
sake, make haste.”
“Is she very ill?” inquired Clive, pouring
brandy into a tumbler.”
“Very—with fever.”
Clive raised the liquor to bis lips.
“ What name did you say ? ”
“Percival.”
Clive’s head went back, leaving his lips dry.
“Is she married ?”
“Yes.”
“ And her husband’s name ? ■”
“Percival, of course.”
“Ah!” —of course. Where do they come
from ? ”
‘ ‘ Melbourne—settled next to me six weeks ago.
Her husband’s a brute.”
“No,” said dive, in a loud voice, “only a
drunkard.”
Acland looked at him in surprise.
“ He never tastes liquor, Doctor, says he hates
it, but he treats her like a brute.”
Clive emptied and re-filled his glass. “ Power
to his arm ! ” he muttered.
Acland stirred impatiently.
“ Get your horse —it is a long ride.”
“ One word.”
"Well?”
“ Her eyes—-are they brown or blue ? ”
“Brown.”
“ Very soft, eh ? ”
“ Yes—how well you know her 1 ”
“Perhaps ; I have seen her once or twice ”
drinking half his brandy.
After a pause—
“ And her hair is brown also, Acland ? ”
“Yes.”
“ With tints —golden tints, at times.”
“ Not that I know,” said Acland.
Then Clive asked a more curious question still—
“ Has she a scar here, Acland ? ” and he pointed
to his chest.
“How should I know ?” said Acland in amaze.
“Only her husband knows that.”
“Only her husband should know,” Clive re-
marked in a quiet tone.
Then he finished the brandy, and his unsteady
hand went towards the bottle again but up stood
Acland with a gathered brow.
“Enough ! ” he cried ; “ would you let a sweet
woman die for the sake of a cursed drink ? ”
“Who made me a drunkard?’’—and at the
question the frown of impatience passed from
Acland’s brow, lifted thence by wide wonder.
The doctor moved to the window and, drawing
the blind, looked out.
“ Raining still, Acland ? ”
“ Yes. The river is up, and if we don’t hurry
the bridge at Calvert’s Crossing may be swept
away.”
Clive did not answer but continued,to gaze out.
From far away came the sound of chopping.
“ Always ringing, ringing, ringing,” he said dis-
contentedly, “making the green trees into dead
wood.”
“It is necessary,” remarked Acland.
“ But, to make green lives into dead hearts—is
that necessary, too, Acland ? ”
Acland said nothing.
“A week ago,” resumed Clive, “ the limb of a
tree he had ‘rung’ fell on Peter Henson and
killed him.”
Then he continued, turning round and ap-
proaching the other: “And I will save the
woman, Acland.”
He went to a drawer and drew from it a pink
envelope.
“With this powder, Acland,” he added, “I
will save her.”
His flushed face had paled, and there was a
smile at the corners of his mouth —a white, fore-
boding smile. Curiously enough it recalled to
Acland thB storm of a few days previous, when
an ashen wreath, livid with venom, streaked
against a background of black-blue cloud.
Half-an-hour later they rode from town toge-
ther. The doctor carried the pink powder in his
top vest pocket and near his heart, as though he
dearly loved it.
Acland hurried him persistently. Every
moment made a rise in the river, and even now
they might be too late. If that were so, it would
be good-bye to the woman. Acland pitied her.
That was what sent him from home at midnight
on a 20-mile ride for Doctor Clive. He told no
one of his purpose—least of all Percival, because
he was sure Percival would sneer.
Doctor Clive rode behind, silent, chewing a
different kernel. It rained heavily and he felt
cold. The brandy had passed from his veins, and
reaction crawling in filled him with desolation,
making him heave and sigh and yawn. Some-
times he said silly things to himself, and some-
times savage things to another, but that other
was not Acland. And sometimes he awoke and
shook off a strange feeling, the feeling that a dead
man might have who knew that he was dead.
Little by little he had wasted his will. None
of his present associates knew the reason, but
some guessed it was a woman. The pity of it. Five
years before, many mouths spoke to many ears,
saying grand things of Doctor Clive, who would
make a name for himself, a gilded name. With
D gifts God had given him, he would cheat
Death of many a victim, and take the tears from
tender eyes. But Clive had suddenly given the
lie to these good-natured forecasts.
Men went about saying, “Have you heard?”
and women said, “Ah, the hussy! she was not
worthy of him.”
For the rest, his friends pitied him, and were
sorry, and it is a good deal to say that even his
enemies were not glad.
All of this seemed very long ago, and now he
was riding through the rain to save a woman’s
life. “To save” —Clive smiled, again, and
Acland, turning in the saddle, wondered what
made the doctor merry.
The road was soft, and they found it heavy
going. The sticky clay glued their horses’ hoofs,
so that, after every lifting of them, a sound of
suction followed. At noon, they had made but
10 miles, but were near the river. They heard it
long before its murky tide rolled in front of them.
It had a voice, which it used like a giant. For
18 months the river had waited for this voice,
sleeping like a long, yellow, silent serpent beneath
its lord, the Sun. Its hollow roar rumbled now
through the trees, and the drip, drip of the rain
from the pointed leaves falling into the little
leaves lying under, was as if sound should fall on
sound.
Presently, the two men halted.
“ Gone ! ” exclaimed Acland, pointing to where
the bridge had been.
“ Gone ! ” echoed Clive.
“No use, now,” said Acland.
“ What does it matter ? ”
“Everything,” Acland replied, bitter at the
callous question. “The next bridge is 10 miles
away. ”
“Too far,” said Clive, quietly ; “what are we
to do ? ”
“Go round ; it’s the only thing.”
“No; there’s another way,” said Clive. Acland
opened his eyes and stared at him. He had the
calmness of one who cares no longer for anything.
“ But you will drown,” said Acland.
The doctor rode down the slope to the water’s
edge.
“Itis a life lost, anyway,” he replied. Acland
did not answer. He was too wrapt in the doctor’s
peril to say anything.
Clive spoke again.
“If I live—she dies!” he said. “If I die,
she lives—perhaps ! ”
The river was boiling and surging and swirling.
There was no method in its motion ; it was a mad
thing indeed.
“ Did he mean that, or is the river in his
brain ?” said Acland.
Clive did not wave his hand, nor say good-bye,
nor do anything to make him seem a hero. Acland
might have thought him one, but for the smiles, the
pink packet of powder, and the words he had just
uttered. The doctor’s horse, with the water at
the stirrups, made an effort to evade the perilous
adventure, trembling violently and turning to
regain the bank. Clive pulled him round with a
jerk and spurred him. The animal reared, leapt
forward, and next moment was out of depth. It
was going to be a great fight, and the doctor,
slipping from the saddle, swam beside the horse,
his hand on its mane.
Acland, sitting still, watched the struggle. It
was the trifles that attracted him most. The tree-
root that came down stream was one of these, and
he calculated to a nicety that it wuuld just miss
them. The red nostril of the horse as he swerved
up stream was another, and the pink thing in che
horse’s mane a third. What was this powder
intended for ? —and Acland remembered the smile.
Strange to say, while his eyes were bent upon the
struggling pair, his mind had gone tracking, and
found a faint impression among dead leaves.
They were in midstream now, and anon beyond
midstream, but here was a huge log coming down
on them—a riotous, reckless thing, leaping and
falling, like a hobbled horse in pursuit of a teasing
terrier. A chill fear struck through Clive, and he
breathed some long-forgotten words of a kind that
men refuge in when death menaces. The log
slipped by with no harm to man or horse, and
then Clive remembered that he was utterly in-
different to any happening.
A minute after, they drew out on the farther
side, and shook themselves free of wet. Then
Clive turned towards Acland and held up the
pink packet as a victor waves a flag.
Acland nodded that he saw. He watched the
doctor mount and ride away. Then he lit his pipe
and smoked. The smile and the words and the
pink powder troubled him more and more. At
length he laughed bitterly. “He went to bring
life and brought death,” he said—and ’twas of
himself that he spoke.
When a half-hour passed he knocked the ashes
from his pipe, and rode down to the river, to take
his chance, as Clive had done. The faint impress
had become a well-defined footprint.
It was late in the day when Doctor Clive came
to Percival’s selection. The plover in the near
grasses shrilled at his approach. A chestnut horse
dropped its head over a fence, and near by, on a
rail, sat a magpie, lost in dreams of fresh furrows
and fat worms. Far away a man was cutting
timber, flaking the air with sappy wood, and
filling the silence with echoes.
“ Percival! ” said Clive, “ she will be alone.”
He dismounted at the open door, and an old
woman, coming from an inner room, bade him
enter and be seated.
“ Can I see Mrs. Percival ? ”
“ She is asleep and much better. Would it be
well to wake her?”
Clive moved across the room and paused at a
door that stood ajar. “In here ?” he whispered.
The woman nodded, and Clive gently pushed the
door and followed it. Then he swung it to again,
and darkness was about him. There was a bed to
one side, and on it someone who breathed slowly
and gently. Clive listened for a moment, and his
practised ear perceived that it was the sleep of
one who had passed a crisis. But the fact did
not cause him to smile, nor to feel in any way
relieved. He only clutched the pink powder
more tightly, as though it were a conscious thing.
Moving noiselessly to a window, he arranged
the blind so that the light of the sunless day came
in. Then with slow steps, as of one very ill, he
approached the bed.
The woman did not stir as he opened the
curtains. He looked at her pale face and wonder id
what had stolen its rose tint. Her brown hair
lay massed on her shoulders. It was soft as ever
—the same that swathed his face in silk when he
was strong and young.
“I loved you,” whispered he.
The coverlid was at her throat. He turned it
down and saw the scar.
“ No child of mine,” said Clive, but it was not
of the scar he spoke.
Then, as he stood above her, the old days
trooped back and looked him in the face. One
reminded him of how he and the woman first met;
a second of their first kiss, and the perfection that
he regarded as his for all time. A third was his
marriage day, and he remembered the revelation
of the scar, and the pain it had brought him to
see such whiteness so disfigured. Then came the
bitterest remembrance of all—the sin on her soul
that was worse than the scar on her flesh.
And now hell presented him with a gallery of
pictures. He saw a life, his own, drifting from
shame to shame, and remembered incidents that
draped his heart in humiliation. He that was
fashioned to walk erect had been made to crawl
on all-fours, for in such attitude he imagined the
world saw him. All the little meannesses of
which he had been guilty and the sorry situations
that he had been in returned to him, and made
his eyes fill and his cheeks burn. But worst of
all was the terrible thirst that led to the theft
from the blind beggar at the street corner.
“Through you!” he growled, and shook the
sleeper.
She had started and opened her eyes. It had
grown dark, and neither could distinguish the
other’s features. The woman, however, sighed a
deep content and stretched her arms to enfold
him.
“I have been calling for you all day,” she said.
Clive turned to a table at the bedside and mixed
the powder.
“I could not come before,” he murmured.
“I thought I should die without seeing your
face.”
He stopped in the middle of the mixing and
breathed deeply.
“ Did you care that much for me ? ” he said.
“Bend down that I may kiss you.”
Clive’s heart quickened and he told himself that
the memory of her voice had been even less sweet
than the voice itself.
“ Then you love ? ”
Her reply came up to him softly.
“ Always,” she said.
A very low, regretful wind was feeling round
the house, saying things that conveyed a world of
sadness.
“ You love me,” he continued—“ more than you
do him?”
“Him !—who?” she breathed quickly, peering
up at Clive's face. Then, unable to distinguish
him, she called in a startled voice—“ Nancy!
Nancy ! ”
“ Hush !” said Clive. “You did not know me,
then?”
She was silent and raised herself on an elbow so
that her face came close to his. Clive felt her
breath hot on his eyebrows.
“Do you know me?”
“ Ah !” she whispered, sinking backwards.
“ So it is not me you loved ? ”
She made no reply.
“ You cheated me,” said Clive.
With a look of agony she brushed the palm of
her hand against her forehead.
“ You made me a drunkard,” he said.
“It should have been different,” she sighed,
“ but the heart will have its way.”
“ I treated you as a queen.”
“He treats me otherwise,” she said.
“ I would have died for you.
“I would live for him,” she replied, sobbing
quietly.
It was tender and fitting for the gentle rain to
sob, too, falling from the eaves without.
“You love him very much ?” said Clive.
“Very much,” she answered.
“ And you would like to live ? ”
Clive’s voice was soft now. ■
“ Ah, if it could be ! ’’—with a sudden spirit in
her tones that was like a light leaping up in the
darkness.; . .■ : : ' z :
“ I have brought you life.”
“ You—you to do so. Where ? ”
“ Here. ”, The door opened and the room filled
with light. Acland and Percival came in quickly.
‘ ‘ Take it—take it, ” said Clive eagerly, ‘ 1 it will
make you well.?’
“ Give it to me ; ” she trembled so that some of
the liquid lapped over and made a red streaking
on her fingers. She rose and raised it to her lips,
but Acland coming forward, caught her wrist with
a quick hand.
“Ha ! ’’ lie said, looking into Clive’s eyes, “ too
clever for you, Doctor Clive.”
Clive stood dumbfounded; his fingers in his
hair. Then he suddenly straightened himself,
reached for the glass, and grasped it.
“See,.it is harmless,” he said, “you have a
great wit, Acland—pity you should waste it on
little things,
He raised the glass to his lips.
“Your health, however”—and he drained the
liquid.
They remained silent for along time, the woman
looking vengefully at Acland for having robbed
her of the life-giving draught and the doctor
gazing down at her with eyes that slowly dimmed,
In a little while he began to tremble like a leaf, or
a lark’s wing in a clouded sky, and his lips to
twitch and gather as thdugh with unutterable woe.
“Shall I live?” said the woman. “Tell me,
for you must know.”
“Yes,” he answered—“but I shall die.”
Acland was watching him narrowly.
“ When ?” said he.
“ Now ! ”
Clive drooped a little, more and more, and at
last slanted sideways and leaned upon her bed.
“ At your feet, my wife ! ”
“ It was poison then ! ” whispered Percival.
“ Ah ! ” and the woman shuddered terribly.
“ But,” said Acland, “ how he loved you ! ”
RODERIC QUINN.


A SPRING TONIC
I
s
T CERTAIN SEASONS of the year the human
system needs strengthening and toning up. This
is one. Winter leaves the blood charged with
impurities, the bowels clogged, and the liver
sluggish. One feels tired, languid, and weak,
and it is with great difficulty that work of any
kind can be done. This state applies most
particularly to women who are not too robust. A
panacea to remedy all this, put new life and blood
into one, drive out all impurities, tone up the
system, and make one fit and strong, will be
found in BILE BEANS FOR BILIOUSNESS.
For debility, lack of energy, and change-of-season
ailments, they are unequalled.
Such symptoms as boils, pimples, blotches,
sores, eruptions, rashes, tetter, and nearly all
skin diseases are proof that the blood is impure,
and, if not cleansed, these troubles may be
followed by severe symptoms, such as ulcers,
tumors, abscesses, old sores, scrofula, and cancer-
ous affections. In BILE BEANS FOR BILIO-
USNESS we have a remedy that has cured the
severest forms of Bad Blood, from a common
pimple to the worst scrofula sores, and they are
a purely vegetable preparation, so that the user,
while certain of benefit, has no fear of any harm
resulting through the presence of any deleterious
substance in their composition, which, unfortu-
nately, are only too frequently found in many so-
called blood purifiers. By purifying the blood
and stimulating the liver, stomach, and digestive
organs to proper action Bile Beans are an
undoubted cure for Biliousness, Indi-
gestion, Constipation, Files, Bad Blood,
Pimples, and all skin eruptions, Head-
ache, Debility, Female Weaknesses,
Ansemea, Nervousness, and a host of other
ailments that owe their origin to defective bile flow, assimilation and digestion*
Obtainable from all chemists and storekeepers, price per box, or
Australian Depot, Bile Bean Manufacturing Co., 39
Pitt-St., Sydney.
For All Change of Season Ailments
• ••• T-A-IKIZE ....
D
U
ILE -
BANS f?f
ILIO0SNESS
A
A
/IV. a
N.
1
m
'A
**•
m,
m
k
>
V
•' .u
* - 4^***~*
and so does
PEARS
The Anguish of a God.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A god sat up in his big white throne,
Carved in ivory, chased in gold,
Sat in his dignity all alone,
Midst bloodless beauty and grandeur cold,
While a choir of thin pale angels white,
tn passionless voices sang his praise,
And a, heavenly radiance swept its light
As chill and blue as an arc-lamp’s rays
A mighty feeling that’s seldom known’
Is to be a god on a big white throne.
But this god, he shivered, and bade them cease,
As he sadly gazed on his wide domain—
Its pallid purity, paltry peace,
With never a sign of a sinful stain.
He warmed his hands at a star’s red side
That flamed with folly and bled with sin •
Then, raising his arms in his passion cried :
“ Is this the Heaven that man would win—
This ty ? Give me life,
With its wars and women, and strength and
strife.”- '
And the god looked down from his throne above,
To scan the worlds to their utmost ends.
He looked on the girls that he might not love
The men that never he’d name as friends ;
He thrilled with the wars that he might not fight,
Fretted for hate that he could not raise ;
For the sorrow and sin of the mortals’ night,
For the sun and snow of the mortals’ days.
Then he rose and cursed at the lot so lone
Of a mighty god on a big white throne.
The mortal lay on the mortal’s breast -
In the clasp of love or the grasp of hate ;
With the flush of joy and the careless jest,
When they faced their god for their final fate.
Little they cared for the laws he made ;
For the look of love and the gage of strife
They plunged to the torment unafraid,
As they gave, or they took, or they marred a life.
And the men of the world who live and die
Seemed gods to that god who ruled on high.
These things that grovelled in mire and clay
Could rise to a grandeur not his own,
Weaker was he in his strength than they,
Defying the power of his big white throne.
The god as he pondered angry grew
That joys were theirs that he could not feel ;
And he pelted the worlds with his lightnings
blue,
And smudged a few ’neath his potent heel.
As they rose through the dust in their grief and
pain,
He saw them gather and sin again.
To a greater god (if a one there were)
He knelt and did as a prayer up-raise—
That he might the joys of those creatures share
Or be a god of the olden days,
From the stifling bonds of his godhead free,
For the field of fight or the maiden’s bower—
Away from the Heaven so chill, where he
Sat impotent in his awful power.
At the foot of his throne in the upper air
The god in his anguish wept his prayer.
W.D.
A Good Quarter-of-an-hour.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A cheeky, brown minah sat on the fence. The
man paused to look at the minah and saw the girl.
A distant piano-strumming came from a house
somewhere behind the trees.
“Isn’t he an impertinent chap?” he asked,
looking at the minah.
She blushed.
“ Isn’t he ? ”
Still silence.
“You know you think he is”—
“ I know I think someone is.”
“Who?”
She smiled.
The man smiled, too. He could enjoy a joke
against himself. Then they laughed together.
“ We’ve never been introduced,” said the girl.
“ Don’t know each other’s names.”
“ What’s in ”
“ Oh please ! ” she interrupted.
“Forgive me, I’m a ‘phrasey ’ beast.”
‘ ‘ I’m, unbearable ! ”
The man stared.
‘ ‘ ‘ Butter for fat ’ —exchange of attributes. You
said you were ‘ phrasey.’
“ But— ‘ unbearable ’! ”
“Dad said that. That’s Dad playing.”
“ Disagreeable man ! ”
The man climbed over the fence. A book lay
open on a chair, and a wet cambric ball. “ You’ve
been crying ! —on whose account ? ”
She was charmingly pretty—an embodiment of
Spring. Brown hair with a wave in it, tantalising
dimples, blue eyes. The grace of a daffodil—
Spring !
“I’m forty,’’confessed the man. “I am poor
my name is Brown ! "
The girl laughed.
“ Don’t do that—pity me ! ”
“ Why ?—because pity is akin to ? ”
“Just that.”
The girl blushed, from sweet-pea to peony.
“I would not call you unbearable. You’re just
what I want for my ‘ Spring/
“ Oh, you’re an artist! ”
“ And in love.”
“ Dad’s a music-master— and in love ! ”
“Stepmother?”
The girl nodded.
“ Don’t / compare favorably with a stepmother ?
If ‘ Spring ’ succeeds ? — But —my name’s Brown ! ”
“ I like your looks,” said the girl, impertinently.
“ Well, if I call to-inorrow (with references)
will you engage me?”
“ We might consider an engagement.”
“ Thank you. . . It’s so lovely to be uncon-
ventional—till to-morrow!
THE YOUNG ’UN.
The Vigilance at Coolaba.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Foe several months the crushings at the big mine
outside the township had been exceptionally good
so good that a number of prominent citizens
had sent for their wives, and had determined to
settle down in this desolate corner of the out-back.
Thereupon it was agreed that the moral atmos-
phere of the place would be refined if the “tea-
shop ” of Kumasura was permanently closed ; and
word to that effect was sent to the proprietor.
The stock of his establishment comprised a
dozen empty tea-cases, a few packets of cigarettes,
and six lady assistants. How we younger men,
passing on our way to work, were wont to look
at the tiny round faces peeping over the window
curtains.! The painted cheeks, the gilded lips
parted in wide, innocent smiles and showing
pretty teeth, the gay kimonos . But respect-
able women were coming, and the Japanese must
go. Kamasura was given a week’s notice, and on
the Saturday morning specified for departure very
few turned up to work at half-past seven. In-
stead, we waited in groups along the street.
The Japs, had to walk several furlongs down a
hill which the coach would not climb ; thence they
would embark for Esperance, where they could
get the train and go to the devil. The train left
for him once a day. All trains in Westralia go
there or thereabouts.
The coach was run out from the pub. at the foot
of the hill, the horses were put in, and the blast
of a horn announced that within ten minutes
intending passengers must be aboard.
Five minutes later the procession issued from
the tea-shop. The girls were loaded with mats
and various household gods. Kamasura alone
went unburdened, as, with head lowered and
hantjls in his coat pockets, he led the way down
the hill. The little women seemed scared and
bewildered. Surely they had done no wrong ?
They did not steal ; they did not kill people.
O Dura San, smallest and prettiest, came last,
trotting along on sandalled feet, and keeping
close to the girl before her. Accidentally she trod
on a stone and fell, her bundle rolling yards away.
Then she burst into tears.
Dick, Weston was the first to reach her. He
tossed the bundle to the nearest man* and, picking
the lilliputian up in his arms, bore her to the
coach, holding his head up, looking defiantly
around him.
A wave of sympathy ran through the crowd.
We didn’t carry the o'.her girls, but each had at
least two men to make the wav as easy for her as
possible. Then we saw them off. No word was
spoken, and no sound but the heavy rattling of
the coach accompanied them on the way. Our
eyes followed the lumbering vehicle until, wrapped
in its enveloping cloud of dust, it disappeared
over the shimmering horizon. A bell tolled
angrily up at the mine, calling us to work.
.The cause of righteousness and truth had been
vindicated. The moral atmosphere was cleared.
And we felt we would have been a good deal hap-
pier if we had left the moral atmosphere as it was.
C.N.
The Melb. monument to late baronet
Clarke has been placed just near to where Flem-
ing’s unemployed hold their daily gatherings.
“ I asked for bread and they gave me a stone.”
“ Raupo ” from Maoriland :
Dear Bulletin.— Re a recent par. The fall of 9,000,000
bushels, since ’9B, in M.L.’s annual wheat crop may have
been caused, to an extent, by the contingenting craze.
The Millers’ Trust may also have had a say in it, but,
without doubt, the primary cause is that the South
Island cookies, who did practically all the cropping, have
found that they can make more money in less time at
dairying. I am too far away anywhere, at present, to
look up statistics, but am confident that you will find the
increase in the annual butter exports since ’9B knocks
spots off that 9,000,000 bushels of wheat. At the same
time, even my unsophisticated brain can grasp the fact
that no country is going to get out of debt by giving
away men and money. M.L. bids fair to become one long
dairying district, with a few jumbucks on the highest
hills. It is already dotted with creameries, a few miles
apart, from end. to end ; and sheep-runs are being con-
stantly cut up into dairy farms.
The Transcontinental land-grant railway
party is so strong in S.A. Parliament that the
thing looks a 3 good as done—but for the trifling
fact that the syndicate hasn’t been found yet.
The average English land co. in Australia makes
large profits, yet it makes just about a quarter as
much out of its land as it might do. As a rule, it
has a pathetic faith in blocking settlement and
sitting down hard on its bare acres as a means of
making money, and so it gets a wildly exaggerated
idea of the amount of land required to make a
good big swindle. Some co. may yet ask for all
the Territory and a bit of S.A. thrown in, also a
present of the existing *iilway, as its price for
finishing the line. All the same, if Premier
Barton had been half as anxious to take over the
Territory, which was his business, as to help
Burns, Philp, and Co.’s New Hebrides fakes,
which weren’t, a great danger would have been
averted.
Alma Mater, the Melbourne University
paper, flogs Prof. Tucker for disparagement of
Australian literature. Alma Mater says :
Among the many fettering recollections our Professors
and our administrators fetch with them from lands of
more cultivated thought, surely the most galling is that
which tethers them and us to the opinion that Australian
literature must be British literature, writ small and writ
over again. . . . The things that made for. British
literature must be allowed free sway here in Australia,
or we will have tenfold worse disasters than any that
wrecked Chatterton, Byron, Keats, Shelley, Kendall,
Gordon, or Clarke. The plain fact is that in Australia
we have conditions answering rather to ancient Greece,
or ancient England, than to more modern times. Yet a
sapient newspaper article, of local manufacture, recently
declared that until Australian writers produced stuff
equal or alike to that of Thackeray, Carlyle, and such
complex products of an older nation, we had better not
look for a local literature ! We have flocks and herds,
droughts, floods, fire, old convict days, horses and horse-
men, Burke and Wills, savages, wild bush lands and
barren steppes, impassible mountain chains, coral reefs,
great sea captains and bold young navigators like Cook,
Flinders, Dampier, Bass, founders of cities, finders of
gold. Where in all the literature of Britain shall we find
these things to imitate? When the mother-land was
nearest to those conditions her singers were nearest to
our own hearts, but they sang in a tongue uncouth, that
we do not care to imitate. It suits our ridiculous critics,
and worse than ridiculous poetasters, to observe that
“ We have no past, our past is all before,” but I doubt
whether even the poetaster who said so would care to
live up to his words. The one real and all-inspiring fact
in Australian story is so absolutely the direct contrary of
that silly antithesis, that there is no other country in the
whole world with so intimate and large a past as ours. It
is yonder at our window waiting, Valentine-like, to be
admitted into our hearts, a great, wide-eyed, panting,
beautiful crowd of sinewy men and heroic women and
gigantic impulses eager to be written into everlasting
remembrance. . . . Yet local critics stand aloof in
giant ignorance or gaze askance with inuendo and
superior quip whenever some new planet of the Austral
firmament swims into their ken. ... We have founded
our Universities to teach us Creation, not Imitation;
Worship, not Slavery; Observation and Experiment,
not the reading of text-books.


Weak and Nervous
Loss of Appetite. Indigestion. Impure Blood. Severe Headaches.
An Easy and Prompt Cure.
>T
* -
•** t
SHTk
'~5,
n.
4
m
Mrs. Marian Pascoe, of Christ-
church, New Zealand, sends a photo-
graph of herself and little boy and
says:
“I had indigestion very badly.
My food rested heavy on my stom-
ach. I lost my appetite and rapidly
grew weak. My blood became im-
pure and I had almost constant
headache. I was so nervous I hardly
knew what to do. A friend sug-
gested that I try Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla, which I did, and only a few
bottles made me strong and hearty
again. My little boy began to com-
plain, said he was all tired out,
could not play, nor do anything.
He lost his appetite, and grew weak
and languid. I tried the Sarsapa-
rilla on him also, and he was soon
perfectly well.”
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
When you lose your appetite, when your food distresses you, and when
your nerves are weak, you may know that severe disease is not far away.
Taken in time, the cure is easy and prompt. You must strengthen your
digestive organs, purify your blood, and put your whole nervous system into
better condition. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will do this for you every time. And
it will give to languid and thin children the energy and vitality natural to them.
Experiments are dangerous. Avoid imitation Sarsaparillas. Insist always
upon getting Ayer’s, the oldest, strongest, best Sarsaparilla.
AYER’S S arsaparilla
Makes the Blood Rich and the Nerves Strong
Constipation, biliousness, sick-headache, all cured by Ayer’s Pills.
27
YEAES’ SUCCESS
AS
the UNIVERSAL REMEDY foe
Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Hoarseness, &c.
HAS MADE
£ung Tonic
AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY TO EVERYBODY.
Important Notice:
SUBSTITUTION. — There are so many imitations
of this successful, and therefore popular, remedy that j
it is of the utmost importance you should use the
word “ OWBRIDGE ” when buying Lung Tonic,
and TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, M.P.S, Chemist, Hull.
Sold everywhere in bottles, at Is. 1 id.
2s. 9 d., 4s. 6d., & 11s., by all
Colonial Medicine Vendors.
COPYRIGHT.
DnLL.Smith,
Consults by Letter, £l.
41 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East.
THE BROWN=SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
P?LLS^
•POR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
JT Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Gold Ghills, flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. UiJi DiKhl PPM
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no Action. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to he A
G-UIhTFA A BOX.” m. „
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health, ihey
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge oi appetm V
arousing with the Rosebud ol<' Hkai.tr the Whole Physical Energy ot the human ftarae./
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guaran
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beer,ham's Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieme m
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PBEPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is lid, and 12s 9d each.
MELLIN’S
FOR INFANTS FOOD AND INVALIDS.
Is adapted for use from birth.
Send for Pamphlet and Samples to GOLLIN & CO., 562-4, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
50, Clarence Street, Sydney ; Grenfell Street, Adelaide ; and Wellington.
Mellin’s Food Company for Australia and New Zealand, Ltd., 56, Cannon Street, London, Eng.
NAuFthaWM
ml
/A-.
lUr-- .
I
iiA/ ! '<:;'/'/ij^y
i 'ft <>/.
liar'A*-
m,-.: I
(/ . *-%.
tf/lt
$&}UhM WsS. '' 'P
fa v #
Blacking
is the best dressing made for all bright finished leathers.
It is easily applied with a cloth, and produces a polish that is unequaled for brilliance
and permanence. Men, women, ana children who use “ Crozine ” once want “ Crozine ”
always, as it is the most satisfactory waterproof dressing made for all varieties of shoes.
Sold almost everywhere. Made and guaranteed only by
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS, Boston, Mass., U. S. A.
fgsd
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
fg
DINNEFORDSI
MAGNESIAj
u
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS
French’s Acting Edition.
sdf
Bare Books
French Novels
Books
the
Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Hooks Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
DON’T MISS THIS
OPPORTUNITY, if you are suffering with WEAKENING,
NERVOUS, and DEBILITATING Diseases. Our CON-
CENTRATED BOTANIC REMEDIES will CURE YOU.
So CONFIDENT are we of this that we will send to any
sufferer a TRIAL COURSE (Free of Charge) and abide
by the RESULT. Send NOW and your ultimate CURE
is CERTAIN. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.


FOR
WATERPROOF GOATS
RUGGER ROOTS
- GOLOSHES
PERDRIAU and COMPANY,
(between Bond & Hunter Streets) 270 GeOfge StrOOt, Sydney
60
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES
■W. G. ELDBIDGE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended'to.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK-
MR
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Worthington Pumps
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send, for Catalogue.
silvern
Spoons, .
Pocket-Inives & Si
I OB* If
issors
CUTLERY
Celebrated
PLATE and
MAR
mmm
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York-St.
SYDNEY.
Also as
“■±■13053 BLOCK,”
Collins-st.. MELBOURNE.
S. FREEMAN SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S
FREEMAN’S
TJ*
2
NO
m
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP
BLACKING.
TOMATO SAUCE.
BLUE
VINEGAR.
(Bag or Square).
FLOUR.
JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE ■
WYNYAKD
ALL WHO DESIRE TO
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN.
GAN OBTAIN
BY USING
:
t-
-0
V
&
fie 9
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers—til, BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND.
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
■J : ■
w B
Portable Drills, Radial Drills, Drill Presses, Lathes, Planing
Machines, Slotting Machines, Punch and Shears, Steam
Hammers, Pipe Screwing Machines, Metal Saws, etc., etc.
WOOD WORKING MACHINERY.
Ingersoll-Sergeant Bock Drills and Air Compressors, Knowles Pumps, Gates
Rojekbreakers, Roger Rolls, Vertical and Horizontal Engines and Boilers of
all kinds, Engineers’ Fittings and Mine and Mill Supplies.
WRITE FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS.
Clarence
Street,
533 Collins Street,
* *
Melbourne.
Street
San Francisco.
r . 1 •
Rescued
From Drink
by * new discovery, odorless and taateles , w ich any lady can
five in tea, coffee or food. It d*ee its work so silent y and surely
that while the devoted wife, sister or daughter looks on, the
drunkard is reclaimed even against hr* will and without hi*
knowledge or co-operation. Send name and address to THE
EUCRASY CO., 62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY, N.3.W., and
they will send you booklet and particulars free,
». P. SRESORS S CO.
Machinery Merchants,
Melbourne & Sydney.
HAVE IN STOCK—
Blake's Steam Pumps.
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery.
Mundy’s Hoisting Engines-
Empire Co.’s Laundry Machinery-
American “All Steel” Pulleys-
Harris *■Champion” Lubricating Oils.
Mason Reducing Valves-
Ludlow Sluice Valves-
Korting’s Injectors and Ejectors-
Tanite Emery Wheels.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS. PRICE, 4s. 6d.; POSTAGE 6d.
Sole Distributing Agents—
Edwards , Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
GET A GRIP OF THIS FACT.
THE
PIPE WRENCH
away ahead of all others.
A REALLY SPLENDID TOOL. WON’T LOCK ON THE PIPE.
10in., 6s. 9d.; 131 n., 10s.; 24m., 155.; 36in., 325. 6d. Easily Adjusted.
p 'A.3FE.3E3 KLOTXSIESS or „
N. CUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
71 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
SOL.E AGENTS.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10hS. .^CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FUBNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
Of various sizes supplied.
Xl 1
MW*
JJOTICB TO MELBOURNE VISITORS,
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite Sf-
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
