

1
McEWAN’S ALE.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
Jfc&*
Mining
Gr. WATKINS 00.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR—
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
MEDICAL CERTIFICATE.
“ Ararat (Victoria), 25th Aug., 1902.
" During the past few years Eczema has become of very
frequent occurrence, especially in children. In the treat-
ment of this troublesome affection the usual medicinal
remedies failed' in many cases to give relief, and I was very
pleased to have a new preparation, named ‘ Oleac,’ put into
my hands for trial. I can recall to my mind three cases of
children in which the usual remedies had no beneficial
effect, and the application of ‘ Oleac' according to the
printed directions.removed all the irritation of the skin.
I"have also heard of many adults using the ‘ Oleac ’ with
great benefit.—JAMES SMEAL, Surgeon, &c., Ararat "
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK :
By Sixty Bulletin writers. Cloth, 800 pages ;
price, 4s. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS t
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane
=
THE
m
The Perfect Motor Vehicle. Driven toy Steam.
Climbs any hill. No Noise. No Smell. No Vibration.
Manufactured by the jCocomohile Co. of Amerioa.
In Stock and to Arrive. Send for further,particulars to
, V.. •
SOLE AGENTS:
85 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.
s.w
■
“ RACKAROCK,”
R. A. HERVEY,
Cor. Clarence & King-Sts.
SYDNEY.
THORNE’S
Estbd. 1831.
WHISKY.
HOBART.
— }em —
[jadleys Orient [jotel.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.
CITY HOTEL
(Fibst Quads), ,•
J. A. TURNER • -
Proprietor.
PERFECT
ASSISTS'
DIGESTION
SHOULD
|BE|
ICED
PENFOLD’S WINES.
Grand Champion Prize of Australia at Melbourne, August 22, 1902.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
THe Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N.S. Wales, Tasmania,
' and Queensland.
PRICES PER FOOT OF SINGLE AND DOUBLE
BELTING :
2' 2J 3 3J 4 5 6 8 10 12 inch.
-/7 -/9, -/10£ 1/- 1/2 1/6 IAI 2/8 3/4 4/-
1/2'-' 1/4 1/7 1/10 2/2 2/11 3/5 4/5 5/7 6/9
Agents in every State.
Made by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
order to introduce our Gold Wire Jewellery
J to the Australian public we have decided to
offer one of the greatest bargains ever seen in the
jewellery trade— viz., the above handsome Brooch
tany name or three initials) made of extra quality
9ct. gold-filled wire, with heart pendant ; guaran-
teed the same quality as the broooh advertised,
complete. Sent post-free on receipt of P. 0.0. or
M.O. for ss. in'round wire or sq. twisted toirq, 15ct
gold,, filled, Ss. 6d. Illustrated catalogues sent free.
SIMS and ELRICK, Manufacturing Jewellers.
,i - fr- ? J 'PUtjni lifiq.iidivxs —; ; ■; •, :
COLE’S rOOK ARCADE, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA
Mining and Dredging Plants. * Engines,
Fowler Traction Engines.
The Clyde Engineering C?y.Lt?
Desiccating Plants.
■o* *suo SSvm jaddOH
m
PROOF
$
USE
V » Ift Rllftll CT
Office:
10 BLICH ST., SYDNEY
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
'CLOTH, 300 PAGES.
.BY SIXTY BULLETIN WRITERS. PRICE, 4s. 6d. ; POSTAGE 6d.
... Sole Distributing Agents—
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
A NICC PRESENT.
The New Combination PIN-
CUSHION, THIMBLE & REEL
HOLDER, nickel plated, plush
top. Clamps on to any table
by means of a spring. Price,
only 2s. ; post free.
Star Novelty Company,
229-231 Collins-st.,
Melbourne.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE -
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 25 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
THE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in the
Colonies. 100 rooms. Magnificent situation, facing
Beach. Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
i-hour by tram. Billiards, etc.
TA HEN buying a KEROSENE GAS STOVE insist
on getting a noiseless
JUPITER
The Very Latest
Invention.
Burns Noiselessly,
Without Smelt
or Smoke,
Perfectly Safe.
Obtained First Prize
wherever exhibited.
Stocked by all Leading Hardware Merchants and
Storekeepers. '
Sole Agents for Australasia —
Nelson and Robertson,
17 LOFTUS ST., SYDNEY.
The Bullein
Vol 23.—N0. 1185.]
[Thursday, October 30 ? 1902.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE LATEST BOOKS BY THIS WEEK’S MAIL.
Geo. Robertson & Co.
Morris, Glare Nugent, 3s 6d, \
Pemberton, The House Under the Sea, 2s 0d & 3s 6d, p. (id.
Sergeant, Lydia Mainwaring, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Greenwood,' Prisoner in the Dock, 3s 6d, p. Bd.
Warden, A Hole and Corner Marriage, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Harrison’s John Buskin (Eng. Men LeUers) 2s (id, p. 4d
Irvine and Alpers, Progress of N.Z. 19th Century, 6s, p. Bd.
Lee, The Frown at Majesty, 3s (id, postage 6d.
De Crespigny, From Behind the Arras, 2»6d &3s 6d, p. 6d.
Godfrey, The Winding' Road, 2s 6d & Ss'6d, p. (id.
Praed(Mrs. Campbell), My Australiao-Girlhood, 16s, p. Is6d
Miles, Avenues to Health, 4s 6d, p. 6d.
Roller, Cosmetics, 6s, p. 6d.
Hopkins, Progress of Canada in 19th Century, 6s, p. Sd.
71 CASTLEREAGH ST., 3YDNEY (4 Doors South of King- St.) & at Melbourne. Adelaide, Brisbane k London
The Biotin publications.
Forwarded to any address in return for postal
notes, stamps, or P. 0.0. for prices stated.
Send Id. stamp for The Bulletin Book Circular,
No. V.
Pair Girls and Gray Horses, wi l h Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvik. New Issue. Blue
cloth, blue edges, with portrait; price, ss. ;
postage, sd. *** A charming presentation
volume.
/ . ,
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top ; price,
55,; postage, 3d. *** Australia’s bes&book
of sea and sailor verse.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; price, ss. ; postage, 3d. *** The best
book of Maoriland verse yet published.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). New
Issue. With about eighty illustrations by
Mahonv', Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher
and Fell wood ; 6s. : postage, Bd. *** “ The
jolliest book yet printed in Australia.”
The Last of Six:
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By Ernest
Favenc. Paper covers, 141 pp. ; price, 6d.;
postage, 2d-
A Rose of Regret:
Verses by James Hebblethwaitk ; being
No. II of The Bulletin Booklets.
Enveloped, Is. 6d. ; postage, Id.
The Circling Hearths:
By Roderic Quinn. No. 11l of The
Bulletin Booklets. Enveloped, Is. 6d. ;
postage. Id.
THE BULLETIN BOOKS.
Sole Distributing Agents :
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
Special Wholesale Agents :
New South Wales .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
Queensland .. .. Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd
Victoria . . .. .. George Robertson Proprietary.
Tasmania George Robertson Proprietary.
South Australia .. E. S.. Wigg & Son..
Westralia .. .. E. S. Wigg & Son.
Auckland and district Wildman, Lyell, & A raw.
Others to be appointed.
Sold by All Leading. Booksellers...
The Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd.,
214 Gborge-st., , Sydney, , Australia.
BUSHHAN AND
BUCCANEER.
The Life and Writings of Harry Morant.
Gives the true facts as to the liushveldt Carbineers
and certain Australian scapegoats..
Wholesale from EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE.
Retail from all BookssHers, and Post-Free from
“The Bulletin.” Officers. Id.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For
COUGHS, COCOS
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(REGISTERED).
-m.
R 2
oV-
v.vD»
—~
i?J TINS, Is. 6d.
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Sinyera
and Public Speakers.
Sol D BY ALB CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,.
G. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE ; and FELTON, GRIM WADE & CO., MELBOURNE, AGENTS.
They ease a Tired Throat; and are helpful in Indigestion and .Dyspepsia*
THE RED PAGE.
Black Australia.
MESTQN is right (B. 16/8/’O2). Despite the
undeniable brain-power of the blacks,
their extreme conservatism has completed
its circle in a certain feckless pliancy,
which is not adaptability. They welcome the
steel tomahawk, but they keep it no sharper than
the old diorite implement. Ironbound prescrip-
tion has atrophied the initiative of the race, doom-
ing it to a future like its past, or no future at all.
Therefore distraction means collapse and dissolu-
tion. Actual injury could only accelerate an end
which the mere advent of a disturbing element had
made inevitable.
Nonebutthe very earliest settlers could accurately
note the primitive characteristics of this unique
race. And the pioneer settlers of our older dis-
tricts have let the opportunity slip. For one
thing, there was no money in ethnology. lor
another thing, all British text-books, in their
large, off-hand way, placed the Australian abo-
rigines lowest in the scale of humanity. And
what argument from fact or experience can with-
stand a British platitude?
But civilisation, at best, is comparative; and
these people had reached a degree beyond that of
our own lineal forefathers in the mere yesterday
of ethnographical record. Moreover, though so
hopelessly fettered by the tyranny of immemorial
precedent, the intellectual competency of the race
was by no means exhausted at this stage. W e
have aboriginal skulls which indicate a mental
capacity beyond that of the average white man ;
some showing even a mathematical faculty of
very high order.
The aborigines of the tipper Yarra, amongst
whom my own earliest years were passed, differed
considerably in armament, tribal usages, and
modes of life, from the blacks described by Mes-
ton, Stoekdale, Dr. Roth, and other first-hand
authorities. (I may mention that my father and
mother were Fort Phillip immigrants of Feb., ’4l
Batman and Fawkner by only
years—and that they spent their first 11 years on
the Upper Yarra, where I was born in ’43. Hence
my own early recollections of the blacks are
checked and authenticated by the maturer obser-
vation of my parents.) And it may be borne in
mind that, at the time and place referred to, the
shadow of extinction had not perceptibly closed
round what was virtually the last generation of
that primeval race. In those days the black-
fellows unconscious skill in the use of his weapous
was so perfect that a mere description would be
likely to excite the cheap incredulity which so
often veils lack of information.
The wimmera spear was about sft. in length,
and |in, in diameter; straight, hard, and of uni-
form thickness. It was the single stem of a suit-
able kind of scrub, peeled clean, burned and
scraped to a point at one end, and hollowed at tiie
other to receive the claw of the wimmera. The
momentum of this weapon was terrific, and its
level trajectory must have rendered it almost in-
visible from the front; yet the nerve and
alertness of the blackfellow were such that his
light box-wood shield—its Gin. of width presented
diagonally—-was a sufficient protection. Touching
accuracy of aim—rnv fat' er saw a blackfellow, at
40 yards distance, send his three spears, in rapid
succession, through the finger-hole below the
latch in the closed door of. an empty hut. The
hole would not be more than lAin. diameter.
The barbed spear, about 6|ft. in length—or its
equivalent with a fin of sharp flints along each
side—was always made of ironbark, and was, of
course, cut out of the standing tree. This weapon
was used only as a lance, never as a missile. I
remember that one of the performances required
from a candidate for the degree of manhood was
to run down a doe kangaroo, and impale her on
his “jag-spear.” The rite of initiation consisted
of knocking out the two upper front teeth of the
aspirant, and seaming his cheat with a dozen, or
more, formidable-looking scars. No adult male
aboriginal was without these badges of virility.
Our blackfellows had two varieties of boo-
merang, distinguishaoie at a glance, but both
invariably made of wattle, and taken from the
junction of trunk and root. The boomerang for
direct flight was longer, heavier, and straighter
than the other. It was thrown horizontally, with
a flat, or even hollow, trajeetory. This was
a formidable weapon, of astonishing range,
though serviceable only in open country.
The return boomerang was a scientific master-
piece ; a marvellously successful adaptation of
simple means to a difficult end. According to
Brough Smyth, Major Mitchell was so impressed
by the anomalous properties of this weapon,
during his famous expedition of ’35, that he after-
wards turned the principle to account by patenting
a “boomerang propeller” for steamboats. But
this must be incorrect, as there is no correspond-
ing record in the long line of patents issued for
that appliance. In any case, the suggestion
betrays a scientific misconception. The object of
a propeller is to obtain the maximum of thrust
with the minimum of peripherieai disturbance ;
whilst the boomerang is fashioned to reduce serial
resistance to the lowest possible amount, mean-
time enlisting the air itself as a _ support
against . gravitation. It is this ferial sup-
port, commanded by the shape of the return-
boomerang, which causes the weapon, when its
projectile foroe is exhaused, to return diagonally,
with its original vigor diminished only by the
fraction expended in air-resistance.
This boomerang has two distinct motions ; the
direct impetus, and the axial revolution. It is
the latter alone which fixes the inclination of its
plane and engages aerial support. The apex of its
flight is reached when the direct force is spent;
then the weapon, inadequate to further advance,
and held in perfect poise by its rotary motion,
returns at an angle determined by its axial incli-
nation. And the whole aerial career of the
boomerang—this studied transition from direct
motion to retrograde—was regulated with a view
to the final striking-point.
The weapon is usually described as a missile
which will strike an object in its flight and return
to the feet of the thrower. This is entirely mis-
leading. The whole course of the boomerang,
direct and return, depends on an equilibrium
which would be fatally disturbed by impact with
any object during its flight. Nor was the weapon
designed to return to the feet of the thrower.
According to original purpose, it was usually made
to descend a spear-cast in front of the thrower,
after passing far beyond the vertical line of that
point. The weapon was designed to search cover
—to force a sheltered enemy into frontal encounter,
And, apart from explosives, no other engine so
efficient in that branch of tactics has ever been
invented. Besides this, it was similarly used to
confuse an enemy’s guard by rear-attack. The
aboriginal warrior was far from regarding it as a
toy. An incident, illustrating the potency of the
weapon in actual combat, holds place amongst my
own early recollections.
I remember a blackfellow—a young man, tall
and athletic, genial and intelligent—who fre-
quented our place, with his lubra. In compliment
to my father he had assumed the name of “ Sam.”
My father—then incidentally collecting specimens
for a private museum in the old country—offered
to treat with Sam for his shield; but the good-
natured blackfellow forced the shield on him as a
present. Otherwise fully armed, Sam left our
place ; and next day his lubra returned alone,
half-distracted, her face lacerated by self-inflicted
tomahawk cuts. Her husband had fallen in single
combat, a victim to inter-tribal vendetta. When
Sam met his assailant his lubra was, as usual,
travelling 50 or 100 yards in the rear, to avoid
startling kangaroos or other game. Each warrior
took cover behind a tree, and the fight began.
My memory does not hold the details clearly
enough for precise description. But, at all events,
each combatant was driven from shelter by the
return flight of the other’s boomerang ; but while
the opponent covered himself with his shield
during exposure, Sam was transfixed by a spear.
Then the victor rushed upon Sam as ho fell,
gashed his loins with repeated tomahawk blows,
and tore out his kidney-fat. When he had gone
his way with his ghastly trophy, Sam’s lubra
approached, and stayed with her husband till he
died. At our place she found others of her tribe,
who buried Sam with the observances of his race.
This took place not more than 30 miles from
Melbourne, early in ’sl—say 15i years after
Fawkner’s Enterprise was moored in the Yarra.
At that time the blackfellows had entirely
vanished from many districts of Victoria. No
historian has had access to the details of then-
passing. Doubtless, sheep were occasionally
speared ; doubtless, poisoned flour was occasion-
ally dropped from station drays. But let it be
recorded, to the honour of the Ryries and other
pioneer settlers on the Upper Yarra, that, from
first to last, their treatment of the blacks was
irreproachable.
TOM COLINS.
N.S.W. Public Library.
Re N.S. W. Public Library, administration,
Arno d Denham writes :
When critical, it is just as well to be accurate. To
begin with, the title of the book “C.C.C.” had great diffi-
culty in procuring is “ DrtHeries Po6tiques,” and not
“ Droleries Joyeuses,” and the reason of its inclusion in
the “ Chamber of Horrors” is that it is an 18vo., or
32m0., or some other mo. that renders it of a convenient
size for transference to the vest pocket of anyone who
might take a fancy to it. The attendants are not
authorised to request anyone not to keep any book too
long, unless someone else happens to want it. In filling
up a form for a book on the reserve list, the applicant,
when unknown, is required to state name, addiess, and
occupation, but there is nothing on the diminutive slip
to justify “.L.B.’s” assertion that he (or she) had to sup-
ply age and purpose in reading as well. I don’t propose
logo into the question as to whether the library authori-
ties are right or wrong in agreeing with Byron that:
“ Ovid’s a rake, as half his verses show him,
morals are a still worse sample,
oatullus scarcely has a decent poem,
I don’t think Sapho’s ode a good example :
And then what proper person could be partial
To all those nauseous epigrams of Martial ? ”
As a matter of fact, all these authors and those men-
tioned by your critics used to be accessible, both in their
original and translated form, to the general public.
They are still there, naked and unashamed, in their
original form, and it was only when that highly-cultured
and discriminating individual, the aforesaid G. P., and its
representatives shrieked for a removal of tsheirpolluting in-
fluence in translated form, that the Augean labors of the
Librarian andhisassistantscommenced. Ingivingevidence
before the Library Commission the late W. M. D.yniock
worked himself into a fine frenzy because an offending
copy of Casanova was exposed to public view on the
library shelves. “The result being,” as the Chief Libra-
rian remarks, “that I was besieged from morning to-night
by people of both sexes anxious to have a look at the
incriminating book.”
The admirable defence by Whibly of Rabelais and
Petronius leaves little for anyone else to say in
favor of this class of literature, but it has
often struck me that the editors of these
works are, in their way, just as mealy-mouthed
as their detractors. What the pornographic book-
sellers term “the spicy bits” are rendered into Latin.
This seems hardly logical, though it only requires a
very schoolboy knowledge to get at the meaning of this
dog stuff. If an author is worth translating, it is surely
well to do it thoroughly or not at all. Stevenson had a
good deal of the Puritan in him, but he complained
bitterly when, having purchased Wheatley’s edition of
“ Pepys’ Diary,” he found that portions had been expur-
gated at the editor’s discretion. ‘ ‘ Why should a literary
man who buys a book at a pi'actioally prohibitive price,”
he remarks, “be placed on the level of a child ?” A man
may be a great literary genius and not know Latin,
though your University undergrad., who isn’t quite certain
whether Dante’s Christian name was'Gabrtel Rossetti or
Allegrini, may doubt this. To know an age thoroughly
one must know the best and the worst of it, and the
future Australian Shakespeare with little Latin, or the
future Keats with none at all, might find himself handi-
capped when delving into Bohn’s “Erotica” for local
color for his magnum opus on ancient Athens or
mediseval Rome.
“G.C.B.”and “L. 8.” complain of the Sydney Public
Library. Have they any idea how they would fare at,
say, the British Museum ? Before you can enter the pre-
cincts of that sacked building you have to be provided
with a reader’s ticket—then it is necessary to fill in a
form before the attendant will get any book, and you are
lucky if you get it within half-an-hour ; you may possibly
have to wait forty-eight.
As a matter of fact many people will be inclined to
think that the public gets too much freedom in the
Sydney Library. Take what is now a prieeh ss book —
Gould’s “Australian Birds,” and you will find the
plates disfigured by tracings and water-color stains
—the aftermath of the artists who did the work
of another book on the same subject. Or take
Paine’s “Boccaccio”—printed ior subscribers only—the
volume will open of its own accord at the story of the
hermit Rusticus. The library authorities are not so much
concerned as to whether people have filthy minds, but ?s
to whether they have filthy hands. Mutilation of valu-
able art works either by the wet-string trick or by obscene
embellishments is not unknown, while the egotistic ass
who makes'iuarginal notes on other people’s property is
in evidence everywhere.
C.C.C.’s remark that “authorsare mixed up in endless
confusion, and often without the least attempt at classifi-
cation,” is, to say the least of it, aimusing. Competent
experts describe the system here as superior to the method
adopted in the British Museum, the Bodleian Library and
the Bibliotheque Nationale. The former has only an
authors* catalogue, while the two latter haven t even that
in complete form. Here there is a full authors catalogue
from 1869-1902 as well as a subject index from 1896-1902.
This is a considerable improvement even on the American
dictionary-form responsible for such unconscious humor as
Mill on Liberty
' Ditto on The Floss
While nothing could be more admirable than Dewey’s
decimal system of notation. The Sydney subject index
from 1869-95 has recently been compiled, and is now in
the printers’ hands—a little job that will alone cost
£lOOO, containing as it does 51,129 volumes. Put a dozen
men to subject-index books under cross-headings and the
result will be chaos. Each man will work in a different
manner, and this will give some idea of the unified
system, care and labour that has to be expended on this
class of work. Everything is found here except the
analysis of British and American magazines, which is
done every year by Poole and Fletcher. Six closely-
printed pages are devoted in the 1869-95 subject-catalogue
to Australian aboriginals, and Baldwin Spencer was
glad to pay £3 3s. for a copy, as it contained
a list of many authors, magazine articles and
pamphlets issued by scientific societies, &c., that had
not previously entered into his ken. If people want to
bark about Library matters let them bark, and bark
loudly, for more money from the N.S.W. Government. In
1879 the Parkes Ministry voted a grant of £150,000 and
only a small portion of this money has so far been
received ; while the maintenance fund has this year been
decreased by £7BO. Public money may be wasted on
every conceivable kind of foolery ; but the purchase of a
nation’s books and an adequate building to house them
in—“ that’s another story.”
HENRY LAWSON.
HENRY LAWSON’S latest book, “Chil-
dren of the Bush,” bears many evidences
of the want of final revision by the
author (he was obliged by illness to
hurry away from London whilst it was in the
press). The arrangement is clumsy and inartistic,
the “get-up” generally poor. But that is not of
very much importance. The writing—does it
show a better or a worse Henry Lawson than
Australia now knows? That question it is not
possible to answer in a word. Henry Lawson,
with growth and development, has improved
his technique: he has more of the art of
the story-teller now than he had before ; his
yarns are composed with more skill, have more
incident, and are, in one sense, more interesting.
But there is not the same amount of rugged life
in them. The old Henry Lawson shows in occa-
sional vivid flashes, in startlingly strong bits of
characterisation ; but with them there is a great
deal of the padding of the common or magazine
order of story-teller. It is almost inevitable that
it should be so. Lawson’s strength is in his mar-
vellous insight into the life and character of the
bush and its inhabitants ; it is not so much im-
agination, but clear mental vision. His first stories
were the naive and artless relations of the
impressions which were strongest in his mind ;
future work must give impressions which
were not so vivid. Very wisely, Mr.
Lawson is supplementing his strength with some
of the arts and graces of the professional story-
teller. And to the public, particularly the English
public, “Children of the Bush” may appear
more attractive than the earlier, stronger, but less
composed work, with all its faults and crude-
nesses. The future judgment of criticism will,
however, certainly give the palm to that earlier
and more vitally original work.
One or two of the stories making up this volume
have already appeared in The Bulletin; several
others in different Australian papers. The standard
of merit is rather uneven. “ The Lost Souls Hotel ”
is a tine essay in human philosophy; “Getting
Back on Dave Regan” is an uninteresting narration
of an unpleasant joke. One yarn, “Shall we
Gather at the River ? ” would be more in place in
Maclaren’s Scottish than in Lawson’s Australian
gallery. But all faults are lost sight of when
the book is considered as a whole, for it stands
then as a masterly interpretation of Australian
bush life by a writer whose skill is still unchal-
lengablfe. (From Methuen and Co., London).
Received.
“ Morganeering, ” by Prof. Bickerton (Wainoni
Publishing Co., Christchurch, M.L.); an interest-
ing satire in short story form of the money power.
“Sunshine and Shadow,” by Mr. S. R, Tucker,
of Burwood, Sydney (from Geo. Robertson and
Co.); a collection of pleasant though essentially
trifling verses. The binding is neat, but the
letterpress is disfigured by many printing errors.
“The Gospel of Strength” by Sandow (T. S.
Fitchett, Queen-st., Melbourne), is mainly an
advertisement by Mr. Sandow of his machines,
his embrocation, and his patent food; but it is
written in a chatty style, which makes it in a
measure interesting.
“The Empire’s Greeting” (Isbister and Co.,
London), is a collection of the 70 best Coronation
odes forwarded in response to a prize competition
by the publishers of Good Words. So much loyal
poetry in one volume irresistibly suggests the pig
and butter sections qf an agricultural show. But
this great aggregation of slobber has its interest.
It is curious to note how so many of the writers
“Kipple.” Most of the verse is of good tame
quality.
Melbourne University is getting into a worse
mess than ever, with the result that its
is becoming more and more impaired. _ The other
day the Bacteriological School lost £l5O of work
for the Agricultural Department. It seems t.uxt
there will be a gradual loss of professors. Two, it
is said, are already contemplating resignation ;
and when they resign it is certain that their
positions will not be filled by full-blown pro-
fessors, but ill-paid lecturers. The Modern
Languages chair has remained vacant since the
death of Prof. Morris ; and the Registrars hip,
since Alexander Sutherland’s death, also remains
unfilled.
J*
Maggie Sullivan writes : —•
As to making copy out of one’s own affairs (8., 4/9/’O2),
which Mrs. Rawson avers to be impossible, of my own
knowledge I know to the contrary, and could, if it were
not bad taste, name more than one Au SC ™.a~-
writer who does so, whenever said affairs on the
interesting-. Their realism is their greatest claim on the
mind of the copy-seeker. For my own P» rfe > 1
with Nietzsche that it is not possible to iinderstandother
people’s blood. “Of all that is written I love only that
which the writer wrote with his blood. Write with blood
and thou wilt learn that blood is spirit.”
“S.T.S.”: Good all, R. A., in failing for £ll,OOO,
pleaded the decreased value of art by living
artists. ‘ ‘ So, artists, die that your pictures may
live” (8., 27/9/M2). Curious that this is the
whole plot of the late Mrs. Oliphant’s best short
story, “Mr. Sandford..” He lived to see his work
going begging, but a kindly accident removed him
just as his expensively-educated sons and
daughters had begun to complain- of pa’s sudden
stinginess; and then, with the output blocked,
prices went up again. Fact is that fashions
change completely every 40 years or less, and a
popular idol who happens to live long enough is
likely to find the public cruel. Just at present
the notable slump is in Landseers.
J*
Who says all the genius is gone out of religious
writings? This is a verse from a poem in a
sectarian paper:—
When we creep so slowly upward,
When each day new burdens brings,
When we strive so hard to conquer
Vexing sublunary things,
When we wait, and toil, and suffer,,
We are working for our wings.
The last line deserves immortality.


WINCHGOMBE, CARSON, and CO., Limited,
WOOL BROKERS AND PRODUCE SALESMEN
SYDNEY.
flfflougall’s Fruit-Tree |||ashes
Chief Agents; F. LASSETTER & CO.
INS
SEND ALL SKINS TO
Kangaroo,
Wallaby,
Rabbit,
Opossum.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY,
The Leading Salesmen. Full Values and Quick Returns.
~-^- TTTMTInr —mi.w.ii "inwin
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 11 PHILLIP STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY. Stores: PYRMOMT,
Sole Charge : 3 Per Cent, to the Giro wera
We are Ihe Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge id. per lb. to the Bayers.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
•X'O DEPX COMPEXITIOIsr.
WINES n ‘ Be “ B '^ <Mv 01 SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, Sets.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
BY
“Steele Rudd/
Cant B Beat
Briar Root Pipes
Gu^ ee V
NOT TO 7
CRACK /
OR /
burn/
LATEST**" MOST
\ UP TO DATE SHAPES
price
1
/.
Quality
(SitiaraQtee,
not toetytesr in a, G-uinea Fipe.
Should any of our Celebrated C. 8.8. Pipes crack or burn a new one will
be exchanged for it immediately on application.
When Ordering 1 , Please Mention Shape of Pipe Required.
C. 8.8.
0.8.8. Pipe, Sterling Silver Mount, 2/6
each.
0.8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, with Ster-
ling Silver Mount, polished Vulcanite
Mouthpiece, in Morocco Leather
Case, 4/-each.
0.8.8. Meerchaum Pipe, guaranteed
genuine, Sterling Silver Screw, Best
Quality Mouthpiece, Morocco Gold-
lined Case, 21/- each.
0.8.8. Pipe, hand-finished, Sterling
Silver Mounted Rim and Band, in
Morocco Gold-lined Leather Case,
8/6 each.
0.8.8. Presentation Companion, con-
taining two Silver Mounted, hand-
finished Pipes, Superior Quality
Mouthpieces, Red Morocco Gold-
lined Case, 15/6 each.
C. 8.8.
C. 8.8
9'"'
JEOATofBLADE
SffOM/VG Gi/AED
Use the
Can't-B-Beat
Safety Razor
Shave every morning with
absolute ease, comfort,
and security ... *
Shaving
with ordinary
razors is not
easy for anybody. It
takes months, yes, years of
practice, and few during
the period escape many
and serious cuts. Even
with experience, despite
Particularly Useful at Sea. care, cuts may be inflicted.
PRICE COMPLETE, in Case .. .. ss. 9d.
In Leather Case, with Extra Blade .. Bs. 9d.
EXTRA BLADES 2s. 3d.
Every Razor Guaranteed and Set ready for use.
TOILET REQUISITES-Lowest Price at . . .
%4r
J/OLLM
GROUND
’t-B-Bfiat Kazors are manufactured from
the very finest English Razor
Steel, and warranted ground by the most expert
workmen in the world.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, J-inch .. 4s. 9d.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, §-inch .. ss. 3d.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, |-inch .. ss. 9d.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, in case, |-inch .. 6s. 3d.
Can’t-B-Beat Razor, with ivory handle.. 108- 6d.
Presentation Case —containing Two
Can’t-B-Beat Razors, ivory handles .. 21s.
C. Brown & Sons’ Hair-Clippers, 5s each. Victory
Cream Shaving Soap, 3d tablet. Shaving Brushes,
6d, 9d, Is, 1s 6d, 2s, 2s 6d, Bs, 8s 6d each.
StrODS “ The Victory,” 2s each. Cant-B-Beat
" Razor Strop, recommended by all the
leading hairdressers, 3s 6d each. Satisfaction
guaranteed or money returned.
MICK SIMMONS} haymarket, SYDNEY
as
os
ME
'iiiiiH
I|\\N
l"
IT WILL CURE YOU.
How can anyone remain in doubt as to the value of this grand lemedy when
you see so many cures by it ? Do you still doubt it? Woo'd von believe your
neighbor if he told you it had cured him? Would you believe the “vidence of
respectable people in your own town? Then see our testimonials. They come
from everywhere—from all classes of people—and prove our claims over and over.
Tie Or. j!)c[aighlin £e
85 King St., Sydney
Melbourne Offices :
167 E SWANSTON STREET.
It Gives VITALITY!
Every man knows how false have been the claims of QUACKS, who promise to cure him with DRUGS.
DRUGS never Cure Weakness, never stop the drain of Vitality, never Cure a Weak Stomach (they cause a good
many). Drugs excite, but they have no lasting effect, no substantial strength in them ; hence they never cure.
There is only one certain way to Restore Vigor, to Renew Strength to Cure LAME BACK, NERVOUS-
NESS, VARICOCELE, DEBILITY, RHEUMATISM, WEAK KIDNEYS, and in fact all Chronic Ailments.
That way is to Strengthen the Parts with a Steady, Soothing, Invigorating Current of Electricity, given to you
while you sleep.
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC CELT
offers the surest and most economical way to get back your lost nerve force. The current
from it is constant and steady. It invigorates the circulation, expands the tissues, developes
the organs, in fact, it practically renovates the entire nervous system, and gives you new
vigor and happiness. Try it, and you'll never regret it. No Drugs forced on you.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co. Bendemere, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs, —In answer to your letter just received, when L
ordered a Belt I had a bad back, and also weariness in the
morning. Now, after wearing your Belt about four hours a
day my back is all right, and I feel quite fresh in the morn-
ing. The weariness has also left me, and the Belt has done
me a great deal of good, considering that I am 72 years of
age. Yours truly,
JOHN DIXON.
INDIGESTION AND CONSTIPATION.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
Sirs,—Since I have been wearing one of your Electric
Belts I feel quite well, my food agrees with me, and I have
no rushing of sour water to my mouth now, as formerly, in
fact, I feel better all over.
Since I have had your Electric Belt I feel a new man, and I
get up in the morning as fresh as a daisy.—Yours very truly,
Korruinburra, Victoria. S. 0. BRAY.
jV(’) , T'ir7p Don’t fail to write for one of our FREE Illustrated Books, which show practical methods of applying Electricity
1 1 to any part of the body; they are sent post-free to any address. We will make you a FREE WRITTEN
diagnosis. NEVER PAY ANYONE FOR SUCH SERVICES. We give good SPECIALISTS’ ADVICE, and make no charge what-
ever. You waste your money if you pay for Advice, when we stand ready to give you the benefit of years of study and
practical experience FREE. We have confidence in our opinions, and deem this the only fair treatment of prospective
patients. , HOURS: 9 a.m. to 8.30 p.m.
ROB ROY pens.
Hinks, Wells & Co. beg to draw attention to this new series of
turned up pointed and other pens, made of the same material, by the
same tools by the same process and at the same works, as the well
known series of Waverley Pens, which Hinks, Wells & Co. have for
30 years and upwards (prior to September 1901), manufactured for
and supplied to the proprietors thereof.
Sold by all
Stationers in 18
varieties in
6d.. Is. & gross boxes;
HINKS, WELLS & CO., Birmingham, England.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manuf. Company,
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY ? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sfilkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Oar Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia. £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and made
to Ordet HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent, more for your requirements.
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
OUJi SPECIAL Ne. 2
£8 18/6
ftelirered at any Wharf e r
i.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
THE
‘PLUM’
Tlil
THE
‘PLUM’
"C^J-ENTLEMEN. —This razor is superior to any other. It Is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, ring*
hke a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
The “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 79. Sd.
“RAZOLES” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d cake.
Price
/.Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s 6d; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Oa-ia
l Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful oase, i Js.
Hi.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part op the World.
kS 7 " Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
Sole Agents CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 Georg , e>st> y Sydney
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Harry Morant
His ’Ventures,
and Verses.
Price 1/1 y renar. y
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney.


TATTERSALL’S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania).
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
NOW OPEN.
Melbourne
To Tattersall,
Please allot
C. Nov. 4.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
ne _____ shares in the above.
Name
•.... Address
£
Subscribers will please note that GEORGE ADAMS (“ TATTERS ALL ”) STILL
CONTINUES his business in HOBART, under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT, and that clients can send their subscriptions by letter to any friend
or acquaintance in HOBART, who will there have no difficulty in delivering the appli-
cation and securing the despatch of tickets and results direct to clients.
Money can also be paid through any Bank in Australasia, to the credit of GEORGE
ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart. Clients when so doing will please
request Bank to advise GEORGE ADAMS of amount, with their name and full address.
Small Parcels addressed to me can be forwarded to Hobart through any PARCEL
DELIVERY CO. doing business with Tasmania.
Melbourne C.
Drawn Morning of the Race
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
Special.
To Tattersall,
Please allot me_
shares in the above.
Name.
Address.
Melbourne C. Nov. 4.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To Tattersall,
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
Address :
Sandhurst C.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
Nov. 26
To Tattersall,
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address—
£


I Colds often hang on.
You try this thing and
that thing, every kind
of home remedy and
cheap cough mixtures,
and yet your cold con-
tinues to hang on.
You must not deal
lightly with these old
colds. You must get
rid of them just as
soon as possible. You
must take something to
oreak their hold.
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
soothes irritable throats, heals inflamed
bronchial tubes, and quiets congestion
in the lungs. This is why it so quickly
controls these old coughs and pre-
vents pneumonia and consumption.
“I was troubled with a very hard
cough which I could not get rid of.
When I read of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
I sent to Johannesburg and procured
a bottle. It completely cured me, and I
have many comrades here who have had
hard coughs cured in the same way. ”
Wm, Sessions, Company C, Second Royal
Berks. Reg., Nel’s Spruit. Transvaal, S. Africa.
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them! Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
W. H.Wigzell.
FRINGES: Best Natural Curly
Hair, 3/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6,10/6 each.
TAILS and PLAITS : 20in. long-,
5/6 ; extra thick, 7/6; 24in., 10/6;
extra thick, 12/6 up to 40/-. Cut-
tings and Combings worked up,
2/6 per oz. Don’t be misled.
Our Plaits and Tails are twice as
thick as sold elsewhere at the
same price. Send color of Hair.
Only one address : 110 WILLIAM-
ST., cor. of Palmer St. SYDNEY.
Cable trams will stop at door. All work guaranteed.
Illustrated Catalogue post free. Prompt attention given
to country orders. Wigs made on shortest notice. All
Hainvork sent to the other States free of duty. Transfor-
mations, entire covering for the head, 30/- each.
VU Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover)
1 to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 108. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
The Remit.
CRAIG & AITKEINI, N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House. 680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
s«
fcffj
This New
Fashionable
Mount,
TWO TIPS WITH
OSPREYS,
In black, white, cream
or black tipped with
white,
3/ THE BUNCH.
i Post Free.
We make this special offer to
advertise our
Ostrich Tips.
Write To-day. Send Postal Note.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
Mention The Bulletin.
'9/Z ‘Oil ‘*P*6
•Xjasjnsi a/ aiqnnißAaj
■3ano aisiv
3A3113U HIM
WVSIVfI S.NVWAVH
AUdlNOdd assn
A MOO
HOnOOVnOA3AVH
CURES
COUCH
L A
COLD
STOPS
cou>
cures!
COUGHJ
FITS CURED
From tbs first dose ol Ozerine fits cease. It has cored
permanently the very worst cases ol Epilepsy when
every other remedy had lailed. Price 4/6 and 111.
Thousands ol testimonials.
OF Alili CHEMISTS, STORES. ETC.
WHOLESALE agents:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. NICHOLL, Pharmaceutigal Chemist,
26 HIGH STREET, BELFAST. IRELAND.
BALSAM OF HOREHOUJNi)
OLD’S
OLD’S
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
BALSAM
For Coughs and Colds.
Every Dose Effective.
Will Cure when Others Fail.
For Pain in the Side.
Best for Influenza.
In Bronchitis and Loss of Voice.
Whooping Cough and Croup.
For Children, Safe and Sure.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. , For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle .
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand,
_A.fc Lowest Cia.rrcin.-fc Rates of Interest.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per cent,
of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman ; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker; J. Abbott, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; F E Winchcombe, Esq., M.P,
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 109.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
MT Send for a
Catalogue.
Bent Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles.
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, i3o Sussex St., Sydney
Straight Shaft 3>Spring Sulkies, £8 10s.
Sarven Sulky Wheels Tyred, £2 4s 6d pair
Discount to Wholesale Buyers. Send for Catalogue.
PLAYER’S
WORLD
FAMED
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES.
WHOLESALE
Distributing Agents
New South Wales—
M. RUTTY & GO.,
SYDNEY.
Victoria —
■l. E. Hunt, Melbourne
South Australia—
Hart, Lawrence & Co.
Propy. Ld., Adelaide
Western Australia —
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle
Queensland —
Thoe. Brown & Sons, Ld.
Brisbane
Burns, Philp & Co. Ld.,
Townsville
Tasmania—
Watohorn Bros.,
Hobart
John McKenzie & Co.,
Launoeston
New Zealand—
D. Benjamin & Co.
Dunedin, iteilingcon
and Christohuroh.
WINCHESTER
SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
"New Rival" and “Repeater"
F you are looking for reliable shotgun am-
munition, the kind that shoots when you
pull the trigger and where you point your
gun, buy Winchester Cartridges: “New Rival,”
loaded with Black powder; and “Repeater”
loaded with Smokeless. ® Insist upon having
Winchester Cartridges, and accept no others.
ALL DEALERS KEEP THEM.
D
we stock^all.... wiNCHFSTRP GOODS.
M'LEAN BROS. & RIGG, Ltd
ELIZABETH ST., fIELBOURNE ; GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
The Australian Commission Agency Co.
IS IN CONSTANT COMMUNICATION WITH
“TATTERSALL,” care of GEO. ADAMS, HOBART.
Write or call. When writing enclose
Addressed Envelope and Stamp.
Offices: 101 Swanston St,, flelbourne,
Will Not Affect the Nerves.
m fc
Tlie ECiglieat Class
SMOKING MIXTURE.
THREE STRENGTHS?
MILD. MEDIUM. FULL.
IN £lb. AND £lb. AIR-TIGHT TINS.
Obtainable from ....
5. HGFFNUNG & CO., Merchants, Pitt=st., Svdnery,
Sole Manufacturers : ARDATH TOBACCO CO., 4-4 Worship Street, London, England.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Botha is regarded as the greatest South
African of the period. This is the verdict alike
of Boer and Briton.
South o’ the Line.
Listen very carefully ;
Listen for the sake of Love.
For, beneath the Southern sky
With dense rimu shade above,
This message do I send you—l.
Fern-flanked mountains lure you back.
Tuis call insistently,
Wekas watch the bush-hewn track.
Harsh down the wind comes the scream of gulls,
Wheeling and riding in flashing brine,
Where the long green rollers crash on the cliffs
Of our lonely sea-coasts —South o’ the Line !
Listen very carefully;
Do you hear the tussock grass
Rustle as the horses fly,
Or the sharp quick beats that die
On the hard earth as we pass ?
See the white bit-foam go by—
Hear the saddles creak and strain—
Were we happy, you and I,
Long ago, upon the Plain ?
The threshing-mills whirr and the brown stalks
wane,
The fences circle and stretch and twine ;
Oh, hold ye a place in your memory yet
For the broad lands calling you—South o’ the
Line ?
Listen, for I call you—l:
Here are spoils you left behind ;
Brown trout waiting for the fly ;
Hill-bred horses, free and kind.
Nuggets in the mountains lie ;
Sheep bleat in the shearing-shed ;
Listen very carefully—
Is your joy in these things dead ?
The quick stars wheel, and the old ones die ;
Our star glows yet. Your country and mine.
To each man is his Homeland—yours waits you
here —
The strong seas are holding it —South o’ the
Line !
G. B. LANCASTER.
Bolling' In.
See the gray dawn breaking slowly
With a sullen sky above her,
And a white mist hanging lowly
Over sodden leaves a-drip,
And the creek’s bed running over
Where the yellow flood is rolling
With a ten-knot current bowling
. Underneath the timber-tip.
And a-glint with rain flecks shining
Where the laggard light is breaking,
See five hundred logs reclining
All in stately lines a-row;
And behind, their stations taking,
Twenty sodden souls a-shiver
With their pulses all a-quiver,
And their score of hearts a-glow.
‘ ‘ Pass the word—twelve feet and rising ;
Stand by—knock the chocks from under.”
“ Heave ! ” And twenty shoulders prising
At the signal, “ Let her go ! ”
Break the level lines asunder ;
And five hundred logs abashing
Hurtle through the air, and, crashing,
Cleave the seething flood below.
Oh, there’s music in the ringing
Of the yellow pines a-clashing,
And a merry lilt a-singing
In the lapping of the tide
When the rain in torrents dashing
Scuds before the gale a-blowing
With a roaring flood a-flowing,
And a golden freight a-ride.
A. CAR B.
The Men of the Outside Run.
We’ll chorus the song of the reckless gang,
The song of the laughing slave ;
The ballad of old that the whirlwind sang
High over the gumtrees brave.
We’ll voice it loud on the rough old road,
In the noon of a blazing sun—
To lighten the weight of the year-worn load
Of the men on the outside run.
’Twill echo again as it did of yore,
As music in their ears;
And the echo will hurry them back once more
To the portal of careless years.
And stifled awhile shall be their sighs
O’er shackles they failed to shun—
And fresh fires gleam n the sunken eyes
Of the men on the outside run !
So chorus the lay of the reckless gang,
The song of the patient slave—
The song that our staunch old forbears sang
On their way to the unmarked grave.
Then voice it over your thorny tracks,
Ye pilgrims every one—
’Twill lighten the yoke on the low-bent backs
Of the men on the outside run !
N.S.W.
WILLIAM COYNE.


USB i
SPOONER’S
SPOONERS
V
*
,J.%» lm— y •*»♦*
«TENT LEATHER BOOTS
'OU2£D AIDS t e -
. fao*iU+*“+ tf* f**-
•<•«•« .>*»•»** *w'««mo** , ** , *’ h
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning' and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and 13.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
. Begin as
[Motorman
3R
New electric roads are being built all the time,
requiring strong, intelligent, reliable
Young rien for Motormen.
You might get such a position if you were
fitted for it, and, once in, there’s a chance to
rise. Our Correspondence Course in Electrical
Engineering teaches you the whole thing. We
teach also Steam and Mechanical Engineering,
Mechanical Drawing, Plumbing, Heating, Ven-
tilating.
Write for information and Handbook B.
American School of Correspondence, Boston,
i Mass. Sydney Address : Box 629, C.P.O.
“ON OUR SELECTION,”
By STEELE RUDD.
MEN
If
you
are
suffering from Yarico
cele, Atrophy, Weak
ness, enclose 6 stamps (postage and packing), and
I will send
MEDICINE FREE
FOR YOUR INDIVIDUAL CASE.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING
to try my Life Syrup Remedies, which give back
strength of body and brain—not a free prescription
dodge, but a trial of my wonderful remedy free for
the asking.
Professor H. READ,
165 Collins St-eet, Melbourne.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English
Hair Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and
write for any Information. Country Orders receive
our prompt and careful attention.
Hairdressers &. Wigmakers.
Send, to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair,
jgf" Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
Hairdressers Engaged and sent to
any Part of Australasia.
CR.A.IG & AITKBN,
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
680-682 George Street, Sydney.
EVERY MAN IS
More or less interested in the curative powers of
MEDICAL GALVANISM and the proper method of
applying this wonderful agent. Before purchasing
Electric Belts or Batteries send for our valuable FREE
BOOK entitled “THE MODERN TREATMENT OF
DISEASE BY ELECTRICITY.” It will tell you what
you ought to know, and may save you time, money
and disappointment. Address—
ARTHUR HALE & SON,
44 Castlereag'h Street, Sydney.
DR. J. COLLI3 BROWNE’S
rNLORODYNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
GENTS.^-
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address.— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourno
WOOL PRODUCE. GRAIN.
The New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Coy., Ltd., SYDNEY,
A.CT A.S SELLIKTG BROKERS OKTLY.
Consignors are absolutely protected under a clause in the Memorandum of Association of this Company.
WOOL
COMMISSION FOR SELLING THREE-QUARTERS (f) PER CENT.
WAREHOUSING
'(lncluding Receiving into Store, Fire Insurance,
Weighing, Lotting, Repacking, Sample Bales,
Advertising, Cataloguing, etc.) on Wool real-
ising over SIXPENCE per lb. the charges
• will be 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising SIXPENCE and over Four-
pence per lb • 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising FOURPENCE per lb. and
. under Is. 6d. per Bale.
Perfect System of Weighing 1 . Way Bills sent on Application.
PRODUCE
SALES of Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, Marsupial Skins, etc., HELD WEEKLY.
WHEAT.
Every inducement is offered growers to consign their grain for realisation by the Company
Ample accommodation is provided. Three months free storage is allowed. Circulars are sent when
desired giving cost of railage and full particulars as to Charges, Advances, etc., etc.
AGENTS POE, McDOUGALL’S SHEEP DIP.
J. BARTRAM & SON,
34 & 36 Market Street, Sydney Clarence Street)
19, 21, 23 King Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES . . .
The ENGLISH DE LAVAL STEAM TURBINE CO. LTD., Leeds.
Makers of Steam Turbines, Turbine Dynamos, Turbine Pumps, Turbine Fans.
(Over 80,000 Horse-power in use.)
Messrs. GREENWOOD 6t BATLEY LTD., Albion Works, Leeds.
Machine Tool Manufacturers and Electrical Engineers, Dynamos, Motors, Pumps, etc.
Messrs. CONNOLLY BROS. LTD,, Manchester.
,n iMQninfori cables, Wires, Tapes, etc.
ARE YOU WEAK ?
Low-spirited, Tired of Life, Have you utterly
failed in your efforts to regrain Health? ,
Go to the Fountain Head
And consult Old Surgeon Langston, who will Cure
you. Forty years’ practice as a Specialist is sufficient.
Guarantee of the doctor’s ability.
AVOID unskilled pretenders, flaming advertisements and specious
cure-alls.
Vigor and Strength T°
OLD SURGEON LANGSTON,
Member Royal College of Surgeons, England, located in Melbourne
since 1886, has so perfected his method of treatment that it can
almost be said there are no hopeless or incurable cases.
Be the equal of your fellow man.
If you are a sufferer from any nervous, chronic Blood or Skin diseases, or interested in the subject of
Neurasthenia and associated evils, write at once for book of information, blank forms, etc., and have the
old doctor diagnose your case.
Seels, tiie Trixtli, it costs KTotliing!
All communications strictly confidential. Address—
SURGEON LANGSTON, cor. Russell & Collins Sts,, Melbourne.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Ohromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 1902 edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public-speaking made easy : is 6d post
Practical Palmistry (latest), post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards illus
Is ; post Is 3d. Aristotle (complete), 3s 6d posted"
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is. Maria Monk Is 9d
How to Become a Ventriloquist, post free Is ’
The Art of Wrestling, post Is. Hoyle’s Games post 2/6
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette (Parties, Love, Dress, etc.), Is 3d post
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 3d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor Is
Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s
Sure Guide), price Is., post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work, Is posted. Camille, Is 3d
Secret History of the Court of England, 1/6 post free
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus., Is 6d posted!
Lover s Letter W riter, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d. The Amateur Photographer Is 3d
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history) Is 3d
Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s 3d post.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional, Is 6d
posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
Up-to-Datb Comic Reciter (newest), Is 3d post free.
How TO Bead Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs
Is 3d post tree. How to Play Billiards, Is 3d. ’
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted. Tokology, 10s 6d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted. . Sappho, Is
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d posted.
Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-Boilers’ Assis-
tant, 2s 6d. Write me for any Book you want.
The Wife’s Handbook, Is 2d posted.
The Slide Bulb and How to Use It, Is 6d post.
100 New Recitations and Readings, Is 3d.
Nervousness and Its Cure, Is 2d posted.
Webster’s Large Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages,
1600 illus. Leather bound, my price, 15s post paid’
Complete Farrier and Horse Doctor, Is 6d.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete Mechanic,
1016 pages, cloth bound, 10s 6d posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance. Is 3d.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s posted.
200 Old-Time Songs (words and music complete), Is 6d-
The Age of Reason, by Paine, posted Is 6d.
Napoleon’s Fortune Telling Cards, 2s.
Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d posted.
Send for my Illustrated Big: Book
Catalogue—post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park-st., Sydney.
Or. J. W GEBBS’
. , Electric Massage Rollers . .
For use on Face and Body.
For NERVOUS HEADACHES
NEURALGIA and RHEUMATISM
a specific. Removes Wrinkles.
Gold, 21/- Silver, 16/-
Post Free. Pamphlets Free.
AMERICAN AGENCY COMPANY,
_ Box 440, G.P.0.,
Melbourne.
Mention
this
Weals.
IMCOUI women
i Can obtain strength and vigor
I by the use of DR. PIERCE'S
ELECTRIC BELT." A Won-
derful Restorative. The most
Scientific Electrical Appliance
ever made. Drags do not cure.
I This Belt does. Send stamp (any sort)
for “Booklet No. 2.” Write to-day:
„ . . Pierce Electric Co., 206 Post St.
S#n Francisco,U.S. A., W. It. Soul & Co.,4ffts. Sydney
yta di cjix a\en
F JNDIGE;7ioJJ
\ % r AcimTy §
UVerVous
meadacke
gM
\toj
BLAIR’S
GOUT $ RHEUMATIC
FllaliS.
The Great English Remedy for
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBACO & NEURALCIA.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured rix a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
ASTHMA CURE
I RRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES I
Fop Asthmatic people who suffer from
OPPRESSION in breathing, HOARSENESS
and BRONCHITIS, INSOMNIA, and DIFFI-
CULTY in EXPECTORATION.
Grimault’s Cigarettes render the respiration
easier, cut short the paroxysms, and remove the
feeling of tightness across the chest.
GRINAULT & Co., Paris. Sold by ail Chemiatß.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdestre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
R X CORD’®
,tSSC.t* cE of F £•
The only Infallible Remedy for W EARN ESS.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled and
unprecedented success throughout the World.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Lrife restores Health and, Strength
to the most shattered constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; Wholesale Agents for New South Wales —
F. H. Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
IEAf
]
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I [Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free. g
Address—A. M, NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.


A Quiet
Nip ••••
Four Crown
Whisky
o
x
\ '
Wasted Vitality
Totally Incapacitated.
a A Cheerful Mind and a Vigorous Body.”
The Case of Mr. C. W. HACK.
(for the “times.”)
With the view of obtaining some idea as
to his opinions on the general trend of events
m which he was once the principal partv
concerned, Mr. Charles William Hack, of
liveleigh-streeb, Redfern, courteously
granted an interview to our representative.
Ihe Reporter : “If you will carry your
memory back to three years ago I would
like you to tell me exactly how you stood
from a physical standpoint.”
Mr. Hack : “If it will render a service
to anybody else, I will tell you with plea-
sure although the subject recalls such a
wretched period of my existence that I
would like to forget it altogether. My
trade is a carpenter, and I am glad to say
that 1 could always get plenty of work ; but
three years back I was so thoroughly run
down that I could not doit. I had been
m an indifferent state of health for
some months previously, being generally
out of sorts,’ as people term "it, and
I thought I had caught a chill and re-
quired a rest. On the Monday morning
1 felt so fatigued that I dropped a note
empioyer stating that I was not
well, and that I hoped to be able to go to
work a,t the commencement of the following
week, but when the time came do you think
I was able ? No. I had less energy then
han ever. If I thought about my work
t distressed me, for I knew that my
vitality had wasted away to such an extent
that I was powerless to perforin it. My
condition fluctuated a little, as some days I
fancied I was slightly better, and that I
would start next Monday, hut when the
day came l could not get up steam. Occa-
siona ly I did a little about the house,
and then 1 was so prostrated with ex-
haustion that I had to go to bed for three
°i four days. . This went on for three
months, by which time you Cay be sure I
was very downhearted.” J
ainhat r Ume?” Were yOU aWay work
Mr. Hack : “Every day of it and if
everything did not go straight I ’became
dted me g y T ltab r le - least tllin S ex-
cited me, and as I could do nothin* but
tion thJT l h<3 helplessness of m y condi-
tion the unhappiness of my life can be
but 1 what lerSt< i od ' 1 I ; esorted t 0 medicines,
ng o°- W i re fc , hey t 0 me ? None at
till t fc ne klnd a »d then another I tried,
~. j® av f the,n up in despair. I then
ninS! 4 } f hos P i f ta1 ’ bufc the medicines dis-
pensed to me from that institution were
seen them 6 rT a- than if 1 had
me rnore C lhos ® made
me more low spirited than ever, and at
ast my mind was harassed by the awful
ST' 10 / would get strlg
L, C Iby )od y was drained of all its
xtal force, and there were no means of
repiemshing it, because the medicines did
traitor alr me ’fk ld a PP et ite had turned
traitor altogether. Some days I fancied
Kot°it d I co iS ld S °? ething nice > bu t when I
was more , eat - At °ther meals I
was moie successful m taking a little food
but when it was down then the misery
began. My stomach filled with wind and
S^fV 6l7 uncomfortable, while the
Lbearable^Th 638 ! ’“,7 chest was almosfc
un Dearable. The shoulders were also the
seat of much trouble, as between them
there came a pain which was very dl™
agreeable ; and as for aches— well y those
K 3 thei e d Small °J my baok Were acute
that they depressed me with their intensity.
desirahle g ' efctlu 2 more bitter and more un-
used to day ’ aa up to that time I
used to keep a And take great
interest in most matters, but now all hfnni-
nesswas gone, and I could not apply Ty
mind to any thing. My head aehed P to dil
traction, so no wonder I was suffering
miafcv SS ,. of memory. There was a duU,
misty feeling about my eyes as if they had
swollen, but, rightly or wrongly, I put that
down to having so many sleepless nights.
The coating on my tongue and the bitter
taste in my mouth were most disagreeable,
though perhaps not such a serious matter
as having my nervous system in such a
shattered condition. Noises set my nerves
shaking at once, while even the conversa-
tion of people was annoying, so I had no
desire to mix in company. My brain was
so unsettled that one minute I would make
up my mind to do a thing and the next
minute I could see no necessity for it ;
but, losing weight and strength so rapidly,
caused more anxiety than anything else,
especially as nothing could check my infir-
mities."
Reporter : “ But you are not an invalid
now ? ”
Mr. Hack : “Thank Heaven, I am not !
I am also grateful to Clements Tonic, for it
was the only medicine which restored my
lost energy. I was anxious to get better,
and did not care what I tried, but I can
safely say that Clements Tonic did me an
immense amount of good from the start.
Its invigorating effects shed a brightness
over my gloomy surroundings, and gave me
hope when everything seemed lost. From the
first couple of bottles of Clements Tonic my
appetite improved greatly, and what pleased
me more still was to observe that the same
medicine was putting my digestive organs
in good working order. Before taking
Clements Tonic I remember one morning in
particular getting up as usual, and shortly
afterwards I fell senseless on the floor
through experiencing violent and over-
powering pains in the stomach ; but a few
weeks use of Clements Tonic drove all
pains and flatulence away, and about my
chest and shoulders the freedom from tor-
ture was equally marked. So distinctly
did Clements Tonic strengthen my worn-out
system that I felt its beneficial influence
with each dose, my nerves in the meantime
getting as steady and true as they had ever
been. To know that I was no longer a
slave to an incurable complaint was a fact
which Clements Tonic alone could set at
rest, for my headaches and backaches simply
drifted away, and in course of time there
was not an ache in any part of me.”
Reporter : “ Were you sleeping better,
too?” s
Mr. Hack: “ That was one of the prin-
cipal features of Clements Tonic. It made
me sleep splendidly, and its toning effect on
my brain was so grand that I did not
dream at nights, and I have not since been
inconvenienced with a bad memory. The
flesh I had lost was regained, and nobody
could have been more thankful than I was
at again being able to go back to work with
the cheerful mind and vigorous body which
nothing but Clements Tonic could restore.”
“ Reporter: “ Can your statements appear
in the press ? ”
Mr. Hack “ You can publish them as
you please, because Clements Tonic made a
thoroughly healthy man of me, and to all
delicate people its true worth should be
made known.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
b Charles William Hack, of 23 Eveleigh-street,
Redfern, in the State of New South Wale 3, Common-
wealth of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare
that I have carefully read the annexed document,
consisting’ of four folios, and consecutively numbered
from one to four, and that it contains and is a true
and faithful account of my illness and cure by
Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission
to publish in any way my statements which I
give voluntarily, without receiving any payment j
and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of
tue provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Redfern, this twelfth
day of April, one thousand nine hundred and two”
before me, 6 ' vo »
T. D. P. HOLDEN, J.p.
n
AERTEX CELLULAR
Cellular Dress Shirt.
Fitted best Belfast Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 0.8. or 0.F., one stud.
Cellular Cotton Body-
-63 6d to 8s 6d
Cellular Lisle Body—
-9s 6d and 10s 6d
Cellular Short-Front Shirt
for every-day wear.
Open behind, 2in. linen wrists—
-5s 6d, 6s 6d.
Open front or behind, square
cuffs— 6s 6d, 7s 6d
SHIRTS
Cellular Tennis Shirt.
With Collar and Pocket. The most
comfortable for all out-door sports
of all kinds. A great variety of
patterns stocked.
Plain Colors, 4s. 6d. to 7s. 6d.
Fancy Designs, 7s. 6d. to 11s. 6d.
Cellular Day Shirts.
Silk neckbands and soft wrists.
White and Self Colors, 4s to 7s 6d
Fancy Designs, 7s 6d to 9s 6d.
Cellular Neglige Shirts.
Soft fronts of plain or pleated
Cellular Cloth ; wrists, French
Print, Linen, or Cellular. Recom-
mended for Golf, Cycling, &c.
White body, 7s 6d ; colored, 8s 9d
Aertex Cellular Fabric _ is the ideal form of body covering, possessing all the necessary
hygienic qualities, and being also most comfortable and of attractive appearance, and for those
reasons is recommended by the Medical Faculty wherever introduced.
Illustrated Catalogues, Samples, etc., post free on application.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.,
73 and 75 KINO STREET,
Sole Agents in N.S.W.
SYDNEY.
The VOLCANIC
CRATING
MACHINE
£23}
|HM|unmi > »uinnuii»|tnm.ii/„,,m ! ,mi l ,n <
A Great
Saving
.... TO
HOTELKEEPERS,
CAFE PROPRIETORS. ETC .
CRATED WATERS of the Highest Quality
produced with the utmost rapidity
WITHOUT SKILLED LABOR.
Absolutely the best and simplest
Machine in the market. pr Price
TUBES CONTAIN 57lbs. GAS.
CAPACITY OF WATER CYLINDERS, lOGals.
VALVE ACTS AUTOMATICALLY.
Write for Descriptive Pamphlets with Testimonials
from people who have used the Machine f.r years.
W. JAMES, Proprietor,
Office ;
Depot
101 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
130 CECIL ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE,
GOOD 3EIA.IR FOR.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Deoay Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair Is falling off, TRY' IT If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price-35., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
83$* For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASTTrGAr
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD BATCHES. Price, 5s ; postage, 9d. extra
. HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively,
rice, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
CONSULT HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE
Sold by all Chemists, and by
HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street,
A.LT a !
HAIR.
MELBOURNE
all Chemists
Washington H. Sour, & Go.,
Pitt-street., Sydney.
S. FREEMAN * SONS |JMITEP
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers. .- 3
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO'S BAKING POWDER
FREEMAN'S PRIZE PICKLES
EXTRACT OP SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDWEY.
DRUNK
ENNESS
,CURED
Absolutely Conquered in 20 Days.
ySee my proposition to the Government,
November Bth, 1901, wherein I agree to
accept 100 Test Cases, and prove that mv
Vegetable Cure for Alcoholism is a positive
and reliaWe remedy Home treatment
within the reach of all. No restrictions no
injections. Full particulars free
W. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S.. Eng ,
68 Russell St., Melbourne.
((
99
They are
Dust Proof.*
Lever Movement.
17/6
» ~ Compensatlon^Baiance.
»» »» Accurately Adjusted.
CHARLES READ & CO.
420 Ceorgre-st., Sydney.
WATCH
Gun
Metal
Case.
BLOW FLIES.-i-
-~1
The ONLY destroyer—The “Buzz"
Window Trap, with Fauldiner’s
Insoot Powder. All Stores


A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
THE
Joins* Velveteen.
t
NOTE WELL!—Each Yard of Genuine “LOUIS” Velveteeni
bears the name (spelled L-0"U“l-S and in no otheri
- way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear. i
HEALTH GIVING,
ENO’S
COOLING, ‘FRUIT REFRESHING,
AND INVIGORATING. SALT.’
HENNESSY’S
THREE STAR
BRANDY
Hennessy’s
Old Battle Axe
Brand
is
known
and
appreciated
all the
World
over.
BOTTLED IN COGNAC.
£
SLi
A
flr
7
G'V
so*
sft.
«c-
-e<>
CA 1 ”
SATISFY!
Franz Josef
APERIENT WATER
Is the ONLY PALATABLE NATURAL
APERIENT WATER.
Sole Agents:— Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne.
CAPILLA
HAIR
TONIC
The Wonder of the Age
ALL CHEMISTS
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA.
a
You know a good thing when you see it. But do you always know a better when you see it ?
It is easy to know a good thing. A thrippence is a good thing. But the goodness there :s in a
thrippence can never be enjoyed until you spend it. And you don’t speud it until you know something
better than a thrippence. The value of a thrippence, therefore, is as much in your own quick insight
and keen perception as in the money itself. If your good sense tells you that a better thing than a
thrippence is a tram car ride over that long, dusty road you are travelling, you are indebted to your
own sagacity for at least half the benefit you enjoy by the exchange.
Then, what you and all the rest of the world seek is something that is better than your money,
so that in the spending of your money you will get more than its value. Is there anything at this
particular time that will give you better return for your money than a Ruberoid Roof?
Full Particulars from
Fremantle, W.A.
J. M. Ferguson, I/ed.
Adelaide, S.A.
A. W. Sandford & Co.
Melbourne, Vic.
Brooks, Robinson & Co.
Launceston, Tas.
Heduuy Button.
Wellington, N.Z.
Jamus W. Jack.
E. RICH & CO., Limited,
Sydney
Brisbane


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission as a Newspaper.
Vo L. 23.—N0. 1185.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1002.
Price 6d.
SQUARING THE CIRCLE.
George Reid, in a recent Victorian address:
He would warn Protectionists that they need not give any votes to him either in the House or out of it, for the moment he got the power he would make the tariff an honest tariff. He looked
upon protective duties as the downward path which led to poverty and corruption, and as long as he lived he would be squarely against them.
The news that George is going to be honest for the first time in his political existence, and that the man who protected such a wonderful lot of things
when he was a Freetrade Premier in N.S.W., is going to be Squarely against Protection at last, is indeed a staggerer. The physically globular Reid
and the politically crooked Reid are both familiar. The Square Reid would be the last straw. This country can’t stagger under three Reids.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
<< Australia for the AMStrnlianB. ,>
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the o..ice of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS AFTER
Ist NOVEMBER , 1902
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• f 9
Half-yearly 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ••• 0 7 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to 3 P.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceed-
ing two columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are speci-
ally acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper
clippings. All communications will be regarded as
Strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that toe
ire not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
~—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions r under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown ;
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal ; Solomon
and Wilson, 22 Rout St., Capetown; Solomon and
Wilson, Commissioners Street, Johannesburg ; Granger
Bros,, Johannesburg; Isaacs and Co., Durban ; Argus
Printing Co., Rhodesia; Gwelo News Agency,
Rhodesia.
Ceylon. —Colombo Apothecary Co., Colombo.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.
Honu Eons. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queens Road, Hong
Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 81 Wanking Road, Shanghai.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1902.
The Preferential Tariff Lunacy.
When the second session of the Australian
Parliament opens it will be a fair oppor-
tunity for the people and the people’s repre-
sentatives to explain to Premier Barton
that there is not going to be any preferential
tariff with Great Britain. At the conference
of Premiers it was Australia’s misfortune to
be represented by the Noblest Son, whose
shameful ignorance of financial matters made
him an easy prey to the basilisk glare of
Chamberlain’s eye-glass, and qualified him
to cheerfully promise any impossibility that
was asked of him. But Australia has carried
the Noblest Son business far enough, and it
is time to rebel. If this country grants
reduced duties on English imports, and the
reduction doesn’t effect its purpose by in-
creasing this country’s purchases of English
goods, then the matter is best left alone.
And if the reduction does effect its purpose
by largely increasing our purchases of
English goods, the Commonwealth will go
insolvent and fail to pay its English creditor
—in which case, also, the matter is best left
alone.
m * * *
Australia, being a country in a hideous
state of national, municipal and private
indebtedness to extraneous lenders, has
to export £12,000,000 or £13,000,000 or
£14,000,000 worth every year more than it
imports, if it is to pay the interest out of its
own resources. So far it pays a little of the
interest out of its own resources and borrows
the rest; it floats big loans in London, and
pays interest-bills with them in London, and
thereby hangs up the evil day for future
consideration. But borrowing must diminish
as the worm of suspicion gnaws at our credit,
and the question of importing a great deal
less, or exporting a great deal more, must be
solved somehow. The prospect of exporting
a great deal more looks next door to hopeless
for these reasons :
(1) Drought, and the diminution of our flocks and
herds,
(2) The comparative barrenness of Australia even in
moderately good years. It is necessary to cultivate two
acres here in order to raise as much produce as the
American or Russian often gets off one.
(3) Heavy freights to the European market, Australia
being the remotest of all the States that try to seriously
compete in that market.
(4) The enormous growth of Argentina and Siberia,
which makes the competition, already severe enough,
more difficult every year.
(5) The refusal of Britain to give us any preference in
its markets, while demanding a preference from us.
(6) The fact that it is only the products of indus-
tries which pay miserably low wages which we export
even now at prices which will enable us to compete in
the British market, and we don’t desire to increase the
proportion of our people working in grossly-sweated in-
dustries.
(7) The fa ct that our exports are already larger in pro-
portion to population, than those of any other country on
earth, save Holland—therefore, in the natural order of
things, they are likely to diminish rather than to increase.
• • *
For these reasons the salvation of Aus-
tralia from public insolvency must be rather
in buying less than in selling more. In
regard to this matter the following figures
throw some light on the case. They cover
the last year (1900) which is fully dealt with
in Coghlan’s published statistics :
Great Britain All
and Maoriland. Other
Ireland. Countries.
Australia’s purchases
from .. .. £25,363,346 £1,904,453 £14,120,145
Australia’s sales to .. 25,215,911 1,389,351 19,352,594
Balance against Aus-
tralia .. .. 147,435 515,102
Balance in favor of
Australia .. £5,232,449
The tendency of these figures is to show
that, at present, the cash by which Aus-
tralia is enabled to pay even the small part
of its interest bill that it does meet out of
its own resources, is made solely by its
non-British trade. But if it is to keep
solvent it must somehow raise that net
surplus of exports from £4,500,000 to
£13,000,000 or so. We can hardly hope
that France, Germany and Belgium, our
present trade mainstays, which already
buy so much from us, and sell us so little,
and pay us the difference in cash—the cash
which enables us to partly stave off the
importunate British creditor—will be willing
to buy still more from us while selling us
still less. The only possible resource, when
foreign borrowing has to be cut down, is to
buy less from Britain and Maoriland—
especially from Britain.
• • * •
The proposal of the unspeakably cheeky
Chamberlain is that Australia, which already
buys much more from Britain than it can
afford to pay for, and more, in some years
at all events, than Britain buys in return,
should make special tariff concessions directly
designed to lead to an increase in its pur-
chases from Britain. And there is to be no
corresponding concession on the other side—
no arrangement tending to increase Britain’s
purchases from Australia. In making these
proposals Chamberlain shows himself foolish
and short-sighted as well as impudent.
Three obvious propositions which he utterly
fails to take into account are these :
(1) If Australia continues to buy from and sell to
Britain at the present rate, it can only pay the interest
due to its British creditors so long as the present frantic
borrowing policy continues, and no longer.
(2) Just as soon as foreign borrowing ceases or seriously
diminishes, Australia must greatly reduce its purchases
from Britain, or else pay its British creditor about ss. in
the £ of his interest.
(3) By granting preferential terms to Britain we may
increase our imports from Britain, which is making
bankruptcy all the nearer and more certain. We may
also provoke France, Belgium, Germany, and a few other
countries to which we now sell much, and from which we
buy little, to retaliate in a way which will greatly reduce
the profits of our trade with them, and that will bring
bankruptcy very close indeed. And whichever way
bankruptcy comes it is our British creditor who will fall
in.
If Chamberlain carries his proposal, and it
does' what Chamberlain wants—the only
thing that Chamberlain possibly can want
—by largely increasing British exports to
Australia, then Chamberlain will simply
have hanged himself by the neck till he is
quite dead. The hanging of Chamberlain
or the foolish suicide of our British creditor
would not matter to us if someone else were
at the loose end of the rope. But if we,
through adopting the British Government
proposals, fail to pay our British creditor,
the disgrace of insolvency will be our dis-
grace, and certain unpleasant consequences
will be ours also. The fact that Canada has
given Britain a trade preference without any
serious results arising does not affect the
case. Canada has no such foreign debt as
we have, and it isn’t under an obligation, as
we are, to keep its imports some £13,000,000
a year below its exports in order to pay
interest on its public and private borrowings.
* * * *
According to its own latest available trade
returns Britain buys from the rest of the
empire £7,000,000 more goods per annum
than it sells to the rest of the empire. On
the other hand, it buys from foreign
countries £160,000,000 worth more than it
sells to foreign countries. Obviously, there-
fore, if it seeks to sell more, the fair thing is
to demand that these foreign countries
(especially the United States, which grabs
£101,000,000 of this £160,000,000 profit to
its own stupendous cheek) shall trade on
more even terms. To demand that Aus-
tralia, which already buys as much from
Britain as it sells to Britain, shall buy still
more, while allowing the United States to sell
to Britain £138,000,000 worth of goods per
annum and only buy £37,000,000 worth
in return, is a cowardly attempt on Britain’s
part to loot a weak friend, while allowing
itself to be looted by a strong enemy without
so much as a protest. Further, for Britain
to demand a preference over the American
and the Frenchman in Australia, while not
having the courage to give itself a preference
over them in its own country, is ridiculous,
as well as cowardly. Undoubtedly it is a
good thing to help along the industries of
the empire and to give a preference to
British subjects, and Australia, which already
gives a preference up to 25 per cent, to
nearly 4,000,000 British subjects, is doing
its duty already on Chamberlain s own
lines, much better than Chamberlain s own
country is doing. Australia is trying hard,
by Chamberlain’s own policy of trade
preference, to build up the empire for
Australia is the empire just as much as
England is ; while England itself is letting
the empire slide. Australia gives this much
preference to the empire already, that it
loots the foreigner of some £5,000,000 a year
cash by selling much to him and buying
little from him. Britain reverses the pro-
cess, and buys from the foreigner
£160,000,000 worth a year more than it sells
to him, which, under a Government which
wants to foster an export trade, is a wildly
ridiculous state of things.
» * * *
But these latter points are mere side
issues compared to the overwhelming fact
that Australia must export some £13,000,000
worth yearly more than it imports if
it is going to pay its multitudinous
British creditors, public and private, out of
its own resources —and it must pay them
out of its own resources in the end, if
it pays them at all. It fails badly to
do this now. It doesn’t see its way to do
it by increasing its exports, so it must
reduce its imports. It can’t hope to cut
£9,000,000 a year off its purchases from
foreigners, seeing that in that direction the
balance of trade is already so greatly in its
favor, therefore it must make the reduction
on its British purchases. Under these cir-
cumstances, supposing the preferential
tariff idea doesn’t lead to an increase in this
country’s imports from Britain, it is useless ;
if it does, it is ruinous. If Premier Barton
can’t realise a small and simple thing like
that it is time he went out of the Noblest
Son business. It is also more than time
that his colleagues refused to follow their
floundering chief any further. For Turner,
O’Connor, and Kingston, the really capable
men of the Government, to commit them-
selves to Barton’s newest foolishness would
be a national calamity.
Joseph Carruthers’ “Reform” Policy.
No one named Joseph was ever an entirely satisfactory
person. —Saying by a forgotten philosopher.
Ip there were only a whole man in N.S.W.
politics somewhere, instead of a lot of half men
and scraps and apologies, that whole and com-
plete person would just now have an opportunity
such as no previous Cornstalk politician has been
blessed with. At present, N.S.W. politics are
rotten and paralytic, and the State is being
steered towards a financial abyss by a crowd of
delirious fools whose incapacity would be
humorous were it not so pitiable. Under such
circumstances the leader of the Opposition
naturally gets up with a reform policy, if the leader
of the Opposition has sufficent wit to devise one. It
is what the leader of the Opposition is for, and if he
can’t produce a reform policy when it is wanted, it
is hard to see why there should be any such person.
Last week J. H. Oarruthers, who in N.S.W.
fills the billet of Permanent Applicant for the
Premiership, made a heavy deliverance at Bur-
wood about the distracted condition of N.S.
Wales, and told many truths concerning the bad
things that were done by the See Government.
Then, when it was time for him to explain how
much better he would do these things if entrusted
with authority, he supplied this valuable informa-
tion (S. M. Herald report):
The Liberal party—or, as it will be known at next
elections, the Liberal and Reform party, will do its work.
When the time comes to lead the people of this country
at an election, they will have from me such a ringing cry
for reform, economy, and a return to stable government,
that many of those men who are talking so glibly to-day
will hardly be able to keep up the pace that X will set
them. I am not going into details at the present time,
because there’s such a thing as leaving your political
clothes about for the other fellow to steal. But the
Liberal platform will have in its forefront the reform of
the Legislature, perhaps even a little more reform than
the People’s Reform League want. I do not believe in
reforming the Legislative Assembly alone ; I believe in
reforming also the Upper House, which does not in any
way represent the franchise of the people. We are in
favor of reform, economy, and a return to sound consti-
tutional and responsible government, and I wish to make
this as plain as daylight, so that there need be no
mistake.
* • • »
The easiest way out for the incapable man with
no policy at all, or the insincere man who doesn’t
want to commit himself till he is quite sure which
policy will pay best, is to say that he has a policy,
but it is so precious and beautiful that it mustn’t
be exposed to the weather, or left where thieves
may get at it. The latter excuse is especially
thin. If J. H. Oarruthers has a policy which is
anything like the one which N.S.W. needs just
now, there is not the slightest fear of its being
stolen by the Treasury. Such a policy as the
following, for instance, might be left hanging on
O’Sullivan’s fence for weeks with perfect safety :
(1) Abolition of the Upper House.
(2) Reduction of the membership of the Assembly.
(3) Abolition of the Agent-General and other useless
officers.
(4) Reduction of the State Governor’s salary to £2500 a
year.
(5) A graduated income-tax.
(6) A graduated land-tax which, in the case of very
large estates, would run as high as 4d. or 6d. in the £.
(7) Increase of land and income-tax by 50 per cent, in
the case of absentees.
(8) No more borrowing except for the renewal of
existing loans.
(9) The establishment of a sinking fund for the repay-
ment of existing loans.
(10) The setting aside of at least £2,000,000 a year out
of revenue as a Public Works Fund—this to be a first
charge on revenue.
The fact that J, H. Oarruthers is afraid to
expound his policy lest it be stolen by the enemy
is tolerably clear evidence that it isn’t anything
resembling the above.
• * • •
In effect, the man who proposes to save
N.S.W. from the impending financial wreck
says that his policy—the one with which he is
going to save N.S.W, —would bo so eminently
suited to the corrupt, extravagant and ruinous
crowd of political adventurers who now run public
affairs, that if they once saw the thing they might
assimilate it and leave J. H. Oarruthers with
no policy at all. This isn’t promising. The
only policy that can do what is required
is one that the See-Owe’Sullivan Government
wouldn’t touch with a pole half-a-mile long, and
one that it wouldn’t steal any more than it would
try to embezzle a healthy tiger with its bare
hands while the animal was raging in its native
jungle. As matters stand, J. H. Oarruthers
promises to raise a ‘ ‘ ringing cry ” at some future
time—but time is precious, and every day wasted
makes things worse, and N.S.W. wants a reform
leader whose cry will ring immediately. There is
no need to wait for the general election. If the
right leader stumped the country with the right
programme, he could raise such a storm that J OHN
See’s majority would desert him inside a month
in order to save its own sordid job. But no
great reform movement will ever start if the
reformers are simply bidden to holler for the great
noble, heroic programme that Joseph Carruthers
is to expound by-and-bye. The public won’t
enthuse over the magnificent idea that Joseph is
going to mention, when he has quite made up his
mind what it is. Even the most foolish punter
who ever put his half-crown on a lame horse wants
to know the name of the horse he is backing; and
when Moses, the bookmaker, offers to take his
money and put it on an animal that is too sacred
to be mentioned, he objects—virulently. He is
liable, under such conditions, to call Moses a
sharper and a confidence-man.
* * * *
There is nothing in the past career of J oseph
Carruthers to call for the blind confidence
which he demands. N.S.W. remembers him as a
Treasurer who brought in one budget —-with an
atrocious deficit in it; and his struggle to show
that the deficit, which was there for everybody
to see, wasn’t there at all was pathetic. It re-
members him as a member of that Parkes-
M ‘Millan Ministry which spent nearly £5,000,000
of loan money in one year—which, allowing for
the fact that it had no great land resumptions to
pay for, was even a worse financial leprosy than
John See’s combination. It remembers him as
the accomplice in all George Reid’s disgraceful
faking of the public accounts, and the defender
of all George Reid’s political dishonesty. A
repentant Carruthers, who had come out of the
stye of his old political associations, and taken his
fore feet out of the old political trough, and who
tied himself down to such a definite programme
of reform that it might be looked upon as a
guarantee that he would be a very different
Carruthers from anything yet seen, might be
endurable. But when the same old Joseph asks
N.S.W. to follow him blindly on the strength of
his past political reputation, it is only fair to tell
him frankly that his past political reputation is
just the reason why no one should follow him—
that it is only fit for the garbage-tip.
• m * *
There is still room for a whole man in N.S.W.
politics. Meanwhile this spectacle of the half-
men, the scraps, fossils, remnants, old hacks, and
political deadbeats wrangling the old wrangles
over the old husks and the old platitudes makes
the State feel tired.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The 112,000 Emigrants from Victoria.
During the last decade about 112,000 more people
left Victoria than entered it, which fact George
Reid— he of the dreary fabrication and the arid
dog—has quoted incessantly as a conclusive proof
that Protection is a precarious and accursed thing.
The fact that N.S.W. in the same time gained
336 people by excess of immigration is held to be
a counter proof that Freetrade is the one pure,
beautiful and spotless gospel on the face of the
earth. Certainly there are large leakages in the
evidence, but even when the evidence leaks like a
sieve, that makes no great difference to the
bounding Freetrader in his wrath. For instance,
during the ten years above quoted :
Westralia (Protectionist) gained 117,503 people by
excess of immigration.
Maoriland (Protectionist) gained 28,642.
Queensland (Protectionist) gained 21,505.
Victoria (Protectionist) lost 111,814.
S.A. (Protectionist) lost 16,390.
Tasmania (Protectionist) lost 1955.
N.S.W., during its Protectionist period up to 18l*v
gained about 19,674.
N.S.W., during its semi-Freetrade period from 1890 to
1901, lost about 19,300
During the same period the rush of the world’s popula-
tion was, as usual, from Freetrade Ireland, England,
Scotland, and Scandinavia, and from semi-Freetrade and
heavily directly-taxed Italy, to Protectionist Canada,
United States, and Argentina.
Still, despite the many obvious lies and exag-
gerations in the Shoddy Party’s story, it can
always fall back on the bare statement that, in 10
years, Victoria 105t111,814 immigrants, and, though
its population increased during the decade, it didn’t
increase very much. And presumably these
111,814 people left Victoria through want of work
and want of money. Yet, during the 10 years,
manufactures increased more largely in Victoria
than in N.S.W. Also, when the product of all.
industries are combined (agriculture, pasture,
dairying, mining, forestry, fishing, manufactures}
their yield per inhabitant shows up somewhat as
follows (no later figures than those for 1899 are
available): —
Value of all Production per Inhabitant.
1891. 1899. Decrease.
N.S.W. .. £32 9 0 £2B 8 9 £4 0 3
Vic. .. 26 11 8 26 10 8 0 1 0
These are Coghlan’s figures, and judged by them
it is Victoria which should have had the great in-
crease of population, and N.S.W. which should
have been losing by immigration. In each State
drought and other circumstances reduced the
people’s earnings, but in N.S.W., since it took to
something partially approaching Freetrade, the
decline has been enormous; in Victoria it has been
almost nil. Clearly, therefore, it was something
quite apart from the State’s own earnings that
made people come to N.S.W. while they were
leaving Victoria, and the only other resource,
or reason, or explanation is Loans. Since
1893 Victoria’s borrowings have averaged about
£500,000 a year; N.S.W.’s have averaged over
£2,000,000. The first year of the new decade
finds Victoria spending a little over £1,000,000
of loan moneys, while N.S.W. spends nearly
£6,000,000. For the financial year'just closed
Victoria spent £2,000,000 less of loan money
than in 1890; N.S.W. spent £2,500,000 more.
Victoria has cut off the employment of 20,060
men and their families—assuming the men 'em;
ployed building public works out of loans to
average £l5O per annum each ; and that, inelud-
ing the families, means about 60,000 or 80(000
people turned adrift. N.S.W. finds employ;
ment for nearly 17,000 more men—say 50,000
to 60,000 people, including dependents—out
of loans, than it used to do. So the class
which lived on loans drifted away from Victoria
nd drifted into N.S.W., and the Dry Dog hag
been proud of himself ever since. But so far as
concerns visible means of support of its own,
N.S.W. has fallen behind badly. And when
the Freetrade man is trying to get Premier
See’s billet he doesn’t mind acknowledging
this, and strongly denounces the condition of
N.S.W. as one of unwholesome boom arising
from the accumulation of debt. But when
the same man is holding forth on the blessings of
shoddy he declares that the of N.S.W.


is one of healthy prosperity, and that the pro-
gress it made under Freetrade in the last ten
years (for five of which it was under Protection) is
an indubitable evidence of &c., &c.
Some Groper Ideas of Reform.
So far, Westralia has never had any but Brumma-
gem brands of self-government. Down to 1870
no such new-fangled notions as elections were
encouraged ; after that there was a curious hybrid
growth, which developed into Responsible Govern-
ment in 1890. Since then there have been two or
three constitutional changes, but none of them
has advanced popular government to any ex-
tent worth mentioning. For the Legislative
Council not only is there still one-nian-
several-votes, but there is also many-men-
no-votes. There is not even a democratic
Assembly. Irwin, Gascoyne, Kimberley East,
Kimberley West, and Roebourne have among
them 1399 possible electors; Hannan’s, Kalgoorlie,
Kanowna, Menzies, and Mt. Margaret have
22,121. Thus in one part an average of 279 people
elect a member; in another part, 4424. The
bullock-puncher of the North has from 10 to 30
times more electoral power than the miner of the
f oldfields. Nominally, that is. In reality the
ullock-puncher probably has no power at all, or
very little ; the representation of Northern cattle
is actually fixed up as a rule by a little
stock - raising coterie in Perth. The new
Westralian Reform Bill makes only a weak
pretence to end this. In fact, class repre-
sentation is deliberately continued. The 3359
Kalgoorlie miners are to return one member, the
3667 of Hannan’s another, the 3816 at Menzies a
third; but the 1000 farmers and squatters in
Beverley, the 1065 in Sussex, and the 1078 in
Nelson are to return three members. In this “ re-
formed ” Assembly 3143 agriculturists are to be
equal to 10,842 miners. Further, bullock-punching
Kimberley is to have a member for 524 electors,
Gascoyne one for 750, Roebourne one for 550
three for 1824. According to the Westralian
“ Reformer,” the new table of weights and mea-
sures runs something like this :
3£ miners = 1 agriculturist or retail cow-rearer.
l| agriculturists or 6 miners = 1 wholesale cow-rearer.
And Premier James apologised for not making
one farmer or retail cow-rearer = six miners.
“Still,” he said, “there will be 12 farming
members—l 2 safe agricultural seats.” Some-
body in the House laughed when the Premier
said that; and the Premier wanted to know what
the joke was. Even if the proposed Assembly
were possible, the provisions relating to the
Council condemn the scheme. It was a bad
Council before, and most of its badness is left to
it. A joint sitting is provided for in case of dis-
agreement, which is something. But the Council
is to consist of 24 members, the Assembly of 47;
and a three-fifths majority of the members pre-
sent can carry a new law in the joint sitting.
Therefore, a two-fifths majority can block the
repeal or improvement of an old law, and that is
where the Upper House will come in. It doesn’t
want to bring in new ideas—only to preserve old
ones ; and at a joint sitting, where both Houses
are fully represented, 29 votes —the votes of the
Council and five of the cattle-members of the
Assembly—can block all progress. The Council,
as a matter of fact, will be able to block
progress almost, though not quite, as effectu-
ally at a joint sitting as it can now, when
sitting by itself. The joint-sitting provisions of
the Federal Constitution are a very fair way out
of a difficulty. But it is no use making a difficulty
in order to provide for the same way out. And,
anyway, this isn’t the same difficulty at all. In
the Federal Parliament a second chamber was
essentia], simply because it was a Federal Parlia-
ment. There is no such justification, or any other
sort of justification now, for a second chamber in
a State Parliament. No second chamber being
necessary, no deadlock provisions are necessary.
When the Federal members are in joint sitting it
is a meeting of men elected on the same broad de-
mocratic franchise. The people rule, no matter
which side wins. Even when a deadlock occurs it
is a difference between the representatives of the
people. On the other hand, should a deadlock
occur in Westralia, it would be between the
People and Property; and a joint sitting would
be a meeting of the People and Property on
an equality. To that the People, whether with a
big Por a little one, should not consent. Yet, as
shown just now, it is only nominally that the
people m this joint sitting are even the equals of
property, since in practice the representatives of
four-fifths of them may easily be defeated. About
the best thing that can be said for Premier
James’s Reform Bill is that, if it passes, it will
take the Council and five Tory voters from the
Assembly to block the abolition of the Groper
Upper House, where just now the Council can do
the blocking single-handed. That is certainly
something, but it might be a lot more.
Police Pensions.
The Victorian Assembly spent 4min. 25 2-ssecs.
passing a Bill to abolish police pensions to future
constables; and not one of those seconds was
occupied by any member in pointing out the dan-
gers of the provisions. The fact that a man of 20 is
sft. 9in. high, well built and, nominally, of “good
moral character ” at the time of joining the force,
is no proof that he will be honest by the time he
is 40, and the police force offers peculiar tempta-
tions to men who are not either unusually honest
or fitted with a sense of what is best policy.
Under the pensions provisions which have
prevailed in Victoria for the past half-cen-
tury, the young constable who chose to adopt
crooked courses of supplementing his income,
was not only unscrupulous but blind to his own
interests, while the man of senior rank who did
so wrote himself down a blithering ass. It is
scarcely to be supposed that the Vic. police force
is more honest or upright than any other 1800 men
picked haphazard from those in permanent em-
ployment ; and statistics show that a consider-
able proportion of the latter will come
within the meshes of the criminal law before
they reach the age at which policemen retire
from the force. A still larger proportion
will- be guilty of things sufficiently devious
to lead to instant dismissal in the case of a
policeman. And yet the great mass of those who
enter the force go through their years of service
without even suspicion attaching to them. They
do so, obviously, because they recognise honesty
to be the best policy. There is no question of
ethics about the matter. It pays them best to be
straight. And Chief-Secretary Murray's little
Bill, which went through the Vie. Assembly
like a pin through paper, will remove this
incentive for ever. The future policeman
will have no pension rights. He will be re-
quired to insure his own life—privately and
for himself. Dishonesty, dismissal, criminality
itself will have no effect upon the validity of his
insurance. He may stand in with burglars and
murderers and conspirators and be found out;
yet the discovery will entail no loss of the amount
for which he is insured. Worse than all, it
is not the recruits, the new constables, who will
be most severely tempted. The man nearing
his retiring age will have no pension to look
forward to, and dismissal will entail nothing
further than the loss of wages in the meantime.
A chance of making perhaps as much as the
amount for which he is insured comes along and
he takes it. By this time he is a sergeant, sub-
inspector, possibly a superintendent. What effect
will the exposure, possibly conviction, of high
police officials have on the morals of the force and
the respect of the public for its police ?
«
■ The Sunday Banana.
The N.S.W. Govt, promised, some months ago,
that legislation on the subject of Sunday observance
would be immediately introduced. That promise
has been shamelessly broken. The subject is one
surrounded with difficulty, calling for firmness
and wisdom. The See Government does not like
difficulties, and it is conspicuously lacking in
firmness and wisdom. So it is safe to predict that
this important question will continue to be
neglected, and the present savage and foolish laws
continue unrepealed, though, in many respects,
consistently ignored. Yet, if there were a
tatter of decent feeling in the N.S.W.
Cabinet, the system in force now, with its
dishonesty and hypocrisy, would not be allowed
to exist for a week. Legally, all breaches of the
Jewish idea of the Sabbath (which idea Charles
11. legalised in England as a concession to the
Calvinists, as a compounding, so to speak, of his
lecheries) are punishable by law in N.S.W. But
the Govt., by running trains, trams, punts, ete.,
on Sundays, is itself the greatest offender against
Sabbath observance, whilst it pursues with savage
intolerance the shop-keeper who wishes to sell a
little fruit, or other light refreshment, to the public.
The Cabinet is in the position of sinning in whole-
sale fashion itself, whilst crushing remorselessly
the small retail offender. That position would
be intolerable to any but the political mind,
that is to say, the mind in which all ideas of right
have been smothered in considerations of expedi-
ency. But the See-Owe’Sullivan combination
seems quite comfortable, and when reminded of
its promise to put the matter of Sunday obser-
vance on a fixed basis, by the cropping up of a
private bill last week, made no sign that it had
anything on its conscience. The private bill is
framed by Holy Wolly Affleck, the Calvinistic
member for Yass, and, sourly narrow and illiberal
as it is, represents some improvement on the
existing state of things. The Bulletin would
welcome it as a measure of reform; it would
indeed welcome an Act of Parliament which
declared for the full and relentless administration
of the laws providing for a Calvinist Sunday,
stopping trains and trams and 'busses and cabs,
and freeing the domestic servant of her work on
the Lord’s day, and making the fashionable city
churches (which flourish on the systematic
‘ ‘ breaking of the Sabbath ” by traffic employees)
wildernesses in which no amount of howling
could raise a decent collection. A sensible,
rational, human Sunday would, of course, be more
welcome.' But, at any rate, the present degraded
hypocrisy should be ended —the system which
allows John See to force thousands of State
employees to “break the Sabbath,” and hauls
before the police court Giovanni Mare for selling
a banana to a hungry child on Calvin’s day.
—♦
The Philp-Tozer Moan.
Horace Tozer, Queensland’s Agent-General in
London, has explained. He says in a large,
vague fashion, that “the discontent in Queens-
land is the result of the Federal Government’s
unreasonable interference with the freedom of the
States to work out their own destiny,” which
sounds imposing but doesn’t necessarily mean
anything. What was Queensland’s destiny under
the old regime, and would Tozer know a destiny
if he found it lying beside his plate at breakfast
with a label on it ? All this lordly and perfunctory
slush about a “destiny” implies that there is
some great blaze or culmination ahead, and
that our one business is to reach there,
and when we get there our duty will
be completed and a load lifted off our
minds. Which is bosh. No one knows what
any country’s destiny is. No one can say for
certain whether any country has a destiny or
not. If it has, it just struggles on much the same
way after it has reached its destiny as before, and
when it gets to one destiny it starts toiling along
the interminable road to another one. Spain
reached its destiny when it was mistress of most
of America, and Britain when it was the world’s
workshop, and Rome when it bossed the earth,
and as all three have lost their destiny again, and
have just the same difficulty in finding a
square meal as if it had never been, it
doesn’t seem as if a destiny matters much
after all. Apart from the undefined howl about
the destiny, it is understood that the Tozer-
Philp crowd complains chiefly because the
Federal Government, at the demand of Queens-
land’s own Federal members, abolished the
Kanaka; and because it has been proposed to
make it the sole channel of communication with
the British Government, which would deprive
small State snobs of their right to communicate
directly with persons of quality in England. It
seems rather strange that Philp and Tozer, if they
really believe their own tale about the general
discontent created by the Federal Government’s
proceedings, should trouble so much about pro-
testing and explaining. The next Federal election
is only about 15 months off; then Australia,
according to Philp and Tozer, will cast the
present Australian Ministry into oblivion and
start on new principles. With such a glorious
revenge before them (Philp, at least, says it is
before them) one would expect them to sit
around and gloat comfortably, instead of
putting in peevish, sore-headed protests. But,
as a matter of fact, it is probable that if a
Federal election happened now the Barton
Ministry, despite the vagaries of its chief, would
come back considerably strengthened. It is im-
possible to say what may happen 15 months
hence, but that is almost certainly what would
happen now. The first Australian Ministry has
made enemies certainly, the principal ones being :
(1) Certain newspapers, which have been deprived of
the right to cadge on the people for free postage.
(2) Certain small State politicians, who are shocked at
the diminution of their importance.
(3) The fossilised and antiquated Tory crowd, which is
all broken-up at the Barton Government’s democratic
leanings.
(4) The nigger-labor push.
(5) The foreign importers—partly beeause it prosecuted
them when they tried to swindle the customs, and partly
because it endeavours to promote Australian industries,
which are utterly accursed, and tend to deprive the
foreign importer of a market for his sweater-made goods.
(6) The great army of land-jobbers, because it proposes
to keep the new Federal capital and territory as the
people’s property for ever.
These classes among them pretty well own the
press, and the press says, at their dictation, that
the country is growing weary of Federation, and
that it is in a state of incipient revolt against the
Ministry. If it is, the fact will appear 15 months
hence. But The Bulletin does not think
so, and predicts that at the 1904 elections
Queensland in particular will return a stronger
body of Government supporters than it did
in 1901, and that State Premier Philp, who
hangs on to his ignoble job by virtue of the
property vote and by the disfranchisement of
political opponents, will conceal himself in a
barrel.
♦
The Way to a Navy.
The report of a select committee of the Senate
appointed to inquire into the means of improving
steamship communication between Tasmania and
the mainland contains this paragraph :
Evidence has been given relative to the advisableness
of the Government of the Commonwealth owning a line of
steamers to connect Tasmania with the qtljer States of
the Commonwealth. Your Committee are of opinion that
such a proposal should be considered in connection
with any movement for the acquisition by the Federal
Government of the railways of the several States, and in
connection with the question of defence, respecting
which evidence has also been given to your Committee as
to the possibility of constructing steamers .for the Tas-
manian-Australian trade with a view to their utilization
in time of war as a valuable adjunct to Commonwealth
defence.
That points the way to an Australian navy. It
is inevitable that when the Commonwealth finds
its feet and begins to use in earnest the powers
with which it is invested, the railways will be
federalised. Almost as certain is it that with pro-
gressive government the coastal shipping service
will either be a Commonwealth monopoly or will
be so buttressed by Commonwealth protection,
and so regulated by the Inter-State commission
as to be a semi-State service. And in that mer-
chant shipping there can be the nucleus of a navy
which, in comparison with Australian needs,
might be described as powerful. It is probable
that the Commonwealth may find it necessary to
own a line of steamers trading to Tasmania ; it is
possible that it may consider it desirable in the
near future to own all the coastal steamers. It is
certain that, with the growth of a national
feeling and of a consistent system of Pro-
tection, the Commonwealth will decide to keep
the coastal trade of Australia exclusively for
Australian vessels, manned by Australian citi-
zens, and liable to be called on in case of
need for the guarding of Australian interests.
In any case, the Australian navy would
be provided at once with its men, and with the
lighter class of ships necessary in naval warfare.
The provision of the other war vessels would not
be a matter of very great expense—certainly not
of expense greater than that incurred under the
proposed new naval subsidy agreement, by which
Australia pays a big subvention to England and
gets nothing—simply and absolutely nothing—in
return.
♦
Tlie Yankee Evangelists.
After hearing a good deal of those raging
missioners, Torrey and Geil and Alexander,
the general verdict is that the American brand
of faith will never be permanently popular.
What Torrey presents is a hot, perspiring,
shouting, hustling deity, incessantly hollering
his orders in a huge and gorgeous hotel, which
is heaven; and furiously driving an ill-made
universe on an ungreased axle. When the
Asiatic, who is the only successful maker of
religions on this earth, depicted his god, the
one expression which was always there was an
expression of profound calm. The Asiatic god
had eternity behind and eternity before; in one
hand was omnipotence, and omniscience in the
other; and he was so vast that time and space
were casual happenings and the universe a passing
circumstance —so why should he be otherwise than
oalm ? It takes an old, vast, patient, tired people
to work out a conception like that —a people who
are so old that they begin to realise something of
what Eternity may be through having a sample of
it on the premises. There is at least vastness
and dignity in the Asiatic conception even
if there is uselessness also. But a new race
has arisen of the most desperate hustlers
the earth has seen in historical times—and
its deity, however little it may be aware of
the fact, is just an enormous bagman carry-
ing samples of stars and nations and comets
in his “ grip.” The manufacturer of tinned soup
looks up with admiration on the manufacturer of
suns as a vastly greater hustler than himself—but
the hustle element is always there. The idea
of a deity who can wait, because the waste of
a million years is nothing to one who
makes centuries and aeons and geological periods, is
beyond the comprehension of a nation which has
set its shop teeth in a fixed determination to make
more dollars before it dies than any other race
ever made in the same time before. The Ameri-
can evangelist always comes to teach the faith of
the perspiring hollering deity, and it is only a
temporary creed of nerves and jumps at the best.
The attractive forms of religion belong to the
slow, ruminating peoples. When once a com-
munity learns how to put up 2,000,000 cans of
ox-tail per minute it has lost its hold of the. old
order of things; and religion belongs essentially
to the old order of things.
Concerning 1 Hutton.
General Hutton has received so many humilia-
tions, has had so many schemes frustrated during
his short term of office as Federal commandant,
that there seems to be some excuse for the rumor
that he intends to throw up his command. But
it is safe to say he will not take such action with-
out extreme compulsion. If he loses the Aus-
tralian command, Gen. Hutton will have to go
back to England as a half-pay officer. He has
such a knack of falling out with the civil
authorities, that this Australian command
looks like his last chance. When N.S.W.
commandant he could not get on with Premier
Dibbs, and was always m hot water. In
Canada he did worse, and it would seem that
only the chance of the S’African war breaking
out then saved him from going on the retired list.
In Africa his impulsiveness was shown again, and
he left the front after but a few months ot service,
although he had proved himself a good fighting
man. In the Commonwealth command he has now
a last show; if he does not make a success here his
days of active service will probably be over. But
he came here with German ideas of militarism
which were too big and too expensive altogether
for Australia. The brief madness of the days
of the first contingents has proved only a
temporary aberration, and Australia, back to
sanity, wants no huge standing army, no large nor
expensive Headquarters staff. So Gen. Hutton
must give up his ideas or his position. From all
appearances the former will be tiis choice. The
firmness of Minister Lyne and of the Federal
Parliament has allowed no middle course. But
the last thing to go will be the General’s beloved
and gaudy “staff.” His personal staff, which
costs the country more than £15,000 per annum—
is as large as, if not larger than, was Kitchener’s
with his vast army in S’Africa. The £62,000
reduction, which must be effected before Dec.
next, should bring this staff within proper
proportions. That is well; for not only is the staff
absurdly large, but its personnel is poor, the
General having made some very queer appoint-
ments. Most of the members took part in the
S’African campaign, and most returned without
covering themselves with very much glory. The
six Commandants of the different States draw an
aggregate of £4300 a year in salaries. These
should be done away with altogether. The posi-
tions are useless, and the men are not so particu-
larly brilliant that they should be given sinecures.
Certainly, the £22,000 reduction will get rid of a
number of excrescences, as General Huttons
hands are tied, and his retrenchment must be
made in the ranks of the gilded ones, and not, as
is usual, at the expense of the citizen-soldier.
The Commandant, in consenting to this, showed
himself well amenable to discipline. His Com-
monwealth experience is doing him good.
“T.D.” writes:—
There are two very distinct sides to the question of
dealing with the money raised in Melbourne for the un-
employed ; and little reason to speak contemptuously of
the proposal to devote the money to assisting men to gain
farming experience on a labor colony, from which they
can he placed on good land by the Govt. What is
intended is to obviate the experience “ that drives
farmers to stick straws in their whiskers, and take to the
trees, howling.” The unemployed, such as really do want
to work, are to be sent up to Leongatha labor colony,
there to learn a little about practical farming before
going on land of their own. The plan up to the
present has been to turn a man on to a 50-acre block
without even the knowledge to sow potatoes, and with a
vague notion that raspberries grow underground. The
Leongatha colony is a State institution, specially designed
to give temporary employment to those in need of it, and
it wouldn’t hurt anyone to go up there for a few weeks’
farming. At all events, the carefully cultivated notion
that Vic. Governments ruthlessly assist brave pioneers to
go in for the planting of straw in their hair is getting to
be just a little exploded. Row enough is made from time
to time by the settlers on Moe and Kooweerup swamps
when they are discommoded for a few days by being
flooded out, but the truth is that as soon as the periodical
flooding ceases those swamps will be good for nothing.
One man who went on to Kooweerup penniless four years
ago, and has “ suffered ” through every one of the floods
since, is now on a holiday trip to Europe, having cleared
about £lOOO a year. It is to Kooweerup swamp that some
of the unemployed are to be sent, ready equipped with
money raised from the Melbourne citizens, and if they
don’t succeed, it will probably be because they have got
the deputation habit badly, and believe that one of the
State’s duties is to send up a woman every Monday to
assist “ the missus” with the family washing.
C
“Shellback ” on “ Why coal-ships founder” :
In a recent issue you commented at length re the above,
remarking that a larger proportion of marine accidents
occurred among the collier class. Seems to me that the
root of the whole question lies in the matter of free-
board. Certainly, up till quite recently, and even at the
present moment for all the writer knows, the standard of
efficiency for ships carrying no passengers (or not more
than 12) is considerably lower than that for those
licensed for a larger number. Why ? Well, in my many
talks with many fellow-members of the cloth I have never
been able to discover. But freeboard —well, in many of
our colliers, or vessels occasionally employed in the coal
trade, the term is conspicuous by its absence. Note the
average collier proceeding to sea from our coal ports. In
many of them it looks almost possible to stick your arm
over the rail and dip up a bucket of water with the
greatest of ease. Another point: No matter what age
the ship is, the tell-tale bar is always painted in at the
same position as when she left the ways at the builders’
yard, quite regardless of the fact that the vessel’s tensile
strength may have diminished to the extent of possibly
25 per cent. Right up to the day of the final falling-to-
pieces it is assumed that the vessel's weight-carrying
capacity is just whac it was when new. And it isn’t —
any more than a 20-year horse’s capacity for winning the
Melbourne Cup.
♦
Iff Iceberg Ibvine and his Tory crew are able to
bear down wages and salaries in Victoria they will
have done all they really set out to do. They have
known all along that the 48 large waist-bands in
the Upper House would never pass their “re-
form ” measure, and they never intended that 48
should. Even the men in the Upper House
selected by the Government to move and second
the motion for the adoption of the Address in
Reply told the Government plump and plain that
the House would knock the Bill endways.
Baillieu, the mover, calmly remarked that the
Upper House did not believe that the country was
to be saved by a reform of the Constitution. “ The
Kyabram reformers, ”h e asserted, “ never intend ed
that House to be radically altered.” Again!
“There is no reason why the Upper House should
stand to the Leg. Assembly in the relation of one
to two.” The seconder of the motion, one
Williams, stated emphatically that he knew
“the Leg. Council would not pass a Bill pro-
viding that the ratepayers’ roll should be the fran-
chise for the election of members of the Council.”
Later on he said —“This House will never pass
adult suffrage, because it does not believe in it.”
Then he finished off with this remarkable state-
ment —“ It certainly looks to me as if the Govern-
ment were introducing a radical Bill in the Leg.
Assembly in order to have it thrown out in the
Leg. Council.” This even brought a protest from
Solicitor-General Davies, who objected to a mem-
ber, put up by the Government to second its
motion, giving away the show so barefacedly.
*
The Jenkins Iscakiot Ministry’s Transconti-
nental Land Grant Railway scheme is expected to
pass S. A. Assembly by a substantial majority,
and its passage through the Leg. Council, now
dominated and possessed by the Eat Party, is, of
course, a certainty. The J enkins scheme is with-
out question the most shameless ever placed
before an Australian Legislature. It is proposed
to hand over 75,000 acres for every mile of
railway constructed by any syndicate that
comes along, and included in the bargain will
go all mineral rights for ever ! Even Maori-
land and Westralia, when they concluded their
land-grant agreements, declined to part with
mineral rights. Moreover, it is questionable
whether South Australia has any right to dispose
of the fee-simple of a single "acre of the N. Terri-
tory without express Federal authority, for she
only holds that portion of the Commonwealth
as trustee. But the Tory crowd is deter-
mined to pass this monstrous robbery so that the
concession of 90 million acres of Territory lands
may be hawked about London. The Government
is aided and abetted by the Opposition leader,
and, bar only half-a-dozen Liberals, the sole
opponents of the measure are the Laborites. As
for the Leg. Council, which contains but two
Labor members, that Chamber, inhabited as it is
by such Tories as Riddoch, Duncan, Brookman,
Stirling and Parsons, will probably only alter
the conditions to make them even more enticing
to Bullcohen.
*
The latest Bent-Irvine dodge to make the Vic.
railways pay simply amounts to highway robbery.
Evidence given to the recent Inquiry Commission
showed that the traffic, repairs and maintenance
branches of the Railway Department are griev-
ously under-manned, but Bent says this is not so,-
and so he proposes to put all, except the “ sala-
ried ” hands, on short time—five days a week.
“Where it is necessary to work the full time,
they won’t be paid for it, but will be allowed time
off later on, to make up.” And that is just where
the swindle comes in, for most of the men will be


The equitable life assurance society
of the United States.
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOB YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBER, 1901.
ASSETS
INCREASE IN ASSETS .. .. .. ..
SURPLUS
INCREASE IN SURPLUS
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
INCREASE IN ASSURANCE IN FORCE ..
THE NEW BUSINESS EXCEEDED THAT OF 1900 by ...
LOCAL DIRECTORS:
Sir WM. M‘MILLAN, K.C.M.G., Chairman; Hon. C. K. MAOKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C. !
F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
S. W. H’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S.,
F. 0. COWLEY, Secretary. Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
£68.966,608
£5,508,678
£14,797,717
£1,039,973
£245,682,651
£13,000,350
£8,088,718
SAWMILL MACHINERY.
SINGLE and DOUBLE CUTTING BAND SAW
MILLS. Satisfaction guaranteed. CIRCULAR
SAW MILLS. Complete Outfits of any capacity.
BAND RESAWS, indespensible in Modern Mills.
ENGINES, BOILERS, etc.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
At the Blue Mountains,
The...,
CARRINGTON
HOTEL PRPTY.
KATOOMBA.
A. L. PEACOCK.
C. T. H. WAKE.
M. EMIL CHIBOUST.
An Ideal Holiday Resort.
worked six days a week, as usual—they will have
to be, unless the engines are to clean and run
themselves, and even Bent can’t bluff them into
that—and there will eventually be such an accu-
mulation of these extra days that it will be im-
practicable to make them up. The result will be
the same as during the last depression, the extra
time will simply be wiped off the slate. This is just
as much plain robbery as if Bent stole from the
men a day’s pay every Saturday ; yet it is about
as far as Irvine’s “financial reform ” scheme has
got at present. There seems to be no lie, steal, or
infamy the Vic. Tory wouldn’t prefer to paying a
land-tax.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Town Hall.. Dolores.
Lyceum . “A Million of Money."
Royal “ Sherlock Holmes.”
Palace “Oyranode Bergerac.”
Criterion “Little Christopher Columbus.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ Sorrows of Satan.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Toreador."
Theatre Royal “ The Favorite.”
Bijou “In the Soup.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
° L (Prince ; s Bridge) '' } Fi tzgerald Bros.’ Circus.
Exhibition Building. .. Federal Exhibition.
«
Mdlle. Dolores gave the first of her trio of
recitals in Sydney last Saturday—P.P.C. recitals,
so to speak ! For the pretty, and pretty plump
French-Italian singer is going away, “it may be
for years and it may be for ever.” She wants to
debut in Vienna, and if there’s one people
Who will appreciate and hold a great singer
it is the Viennese. Mdlle. gave her 11 pro-
gramme songs, which, with four encores, made
a total of 15 numbers. She sings Scotch
ballads, “I’m ower young to marry yet,” and
“Cornin’through the Rye” with a charm that
must make Scotland’s patron saint, McAndrew,
mention her favorably to the Great White Throne.
A music ; excited crowd surrounded the soprano’s
carriage after she had left the hall, and cheered,
and waved its Panamas and billycocks at her, and
the only reason that it didn’t take the horses out
and get into the shafts itself was that it was too
numerous by a thousand. Clarence Newall played
on the elaborate piano with his usual grace and
brilliance.
** * *
“ Little Christopher Columbus” made a
good impression on opening night at Sydney
Criterion. It is bright and lively, and crowded
with characters, most of which are Sheridan.
Johnny is about eight or ten persons in “Little
C.C.” His sketch of Sandhow with a William-
goat skin round his waist, and his explanations
about the arm muscle which he uses to knock
down “women and other things,” and the back
muscle with which he backs horses, are pleasing
follies in a small way; but as Sister
Giggle, Johnny is an even more perfect work
of art. As a lord, a navvy, a Governor, and other
varied animals Johnny shines. He is all sorts of
men, and also all sorts of girls. Florrie Barns
enacts a hoy who afterwards disguises himself as
a girl, while Celia Mavis is a dancing girl who
doesn’t dance. Everyone dances except the
dancing girl. Mrs. Block, formerly a Widow
O’Brienesque character played by Sheridan him-
self, is enacted by a tall, nice, pink-frocked girl
who was meant to be a lost heroine in the snow.
She could probably do that better than she does
Mrs. Block. Leon Roche, who takes the place of
Charles Kenningham (suffering from relaxed
throat) acts better than he sings, his interpolated
song not being a success. A number of other per-
sons do nothing to annoy the public, except by
keeping it rather late for its tram. The ballets
are a good picture, and Minnie Hooper’s graceful
dancing deserves a line to itself.
* # *
The last days of “ Sherlock Holmes " are
not yet announced, so it may be inferred that he
will proceed swiftly on the track of the evil-doer
at Sydney Royal for another fortnight. But
familiarity with the great discoverer’s methods
begins to breed contempt. He finds out a lady’s
taste in music by the pieces on her piano, and if
she simply replied that the pieces were there
when she took the house furnished, and that,
personally, she couldn’t play a note, his perspi-
cacity would fall in. He knows by the dust on
the piano that sh > hasn’t played for three days,
owing to a load on her mind ; but an energetic
servant with a broom can raise more dust in one
day than some other servants raise in six ; and
some ladies dust the piano without playing ;
and some play without dusting the piano; and
some leave off playing, not through mental dis-
turbance. but owing to a pain in the back, com-
bined with specks before the eyes and an uneasy
feeling under the shoulder-blade. “Sherlock
Holmes ” is a rather interesting and preposterous
drama built on deep reasoning with large holes in
it. A good part of The Bulletin’s regard for the
professor, whom Atholwood plays so brilliantly, is
based on the fact that he deduces things inwardly,
as a rule, and doesn’t give his wisdom away by
explaining the wrong manner in which he arrived
at right conclusions.
** * *
Bland Holt’s “Million of Money” is
doing as well as can be expected at Sydney
Lyceum, and that very large sum will be per-
formed nightly for some time yet. In a hard-up
day and stony generation. it is comforting to be
able to drop in and look at all this cash, and at
the pretty women who hover round it. One of
these women, by the way (Harrie Ireland, the
adventuress) gives way to a common delusion,
saying that if she had been a man she
would have been a Napoleon. A good
many adventuresses whose stock-in-trade is a
little talent, a shoreless sea of cheek, beautiful
hair and a lot of lovely but unpaid-for clothes,
have probably thought the same way. And most
of them, if they were dressed like Napoleon,
would never get beyond petty larceny. A ten-
dency to ascribe to her head what is really the
result of her hair is not infrequent in the
ambitious woman.
*# # #
“The Messenger Boy ” departs forMaori-
land from Sydney Palace this week, and on
Saturday “Cyrano de Bergerac ” will be staged,
with Henry Lee in the first part. Mr. Lee’s
impersonation of Cyrano was enthusiastically
praised by leading American papers, and Mel-
bourne critics endorsed that verdict. Sydney has,
so far, not seen Mr. Lee in any work at all worthy
of his reputation, and will await with interest
Saturday’s performance.
** * *
Definitely reported now that there is to be
a Melba opera season in December —“ Lucia di
Lammermoor”; “Romeo and Juliet”; and
Gounod’s “ Faust ”; for one night each in Sydney
and Melbourne.
#* * *
There was an almost complete change of
bill at Sydney Tivoli on Monday. The Harbecks,
appearing for the first time, showed astonishing
skill in juggling with hoops and on the slack wire.
Mr. Victor Kelly, “a tramp comedian,” proved
to be not much of a comedian, but a quaint, eccen-
tric dancer. The Nawns presented a new sketch,
“ Pat and the Genie,” more elaborate than either
of their previous comediettas, and genuinely
funny. Mr. Nawn himself has a fine capacity for
“silent acting;” his Irish characterisations are
varied, always funny, and never vulgar. Another
new-comer at the Tivoli is Miss Eileen Boyd,
a child-singer with a voice of remarkable volume,
who has appeared before in Sydney pantomimes.
She was very heartily applauded.
** * *
On Tuesday evening, Nov. 4th, for one
night only, Pinero’s “Schoolmistress ” will wield
the pointer of instruction and authority at Sydney
Queen’s Hall, on the occasion of a farewell com-
plimentary performance to Mr. F. L. Hodgkin-
son. Mr. Hodgkinson has rendered many services
to the gentle goddess, Sweet Charity, and deserves
all the recognition that he is likely to get.
** * *
The hasty production of “Oh! Mr.
Pennilove ! ” lasted only a week at Melb. Bijou,
and on Saturday the Hawtrey co. turned its
attention to “In the Soup.” This is about as
bright as the average farcical comedy, in which
all the misunderstandings are impossible, and
everybody’s conduct seems to have been borrowed
from a lunatic asylum. An impecunious young
couple, named Gillibrand, let their suite of rooms
twice over, and draw rent in advance from both
tenants; also, they conspire to fill the places of
the cook and butler, who were supposed to be let
with the lodgings. One tenant is a long-lost uncle
from India (the British farcical uncle always
comes from India), on whom they depend for
present necessities and future expectations. Uncle
doesn’t know them. Farcical uncles from abroad
never discover the truth about their relatives
until the third act. The other tenant is an
Anglo-French family, including a daughter who
is engaged to the married couple’s bachelor
friend, and a mother who was beloved by the long-
lost uncle before she married the French father
of the bachelor friend’s best girl. Some of the
parties are densely ignorant concerning the things
they ought to know, whereas the other people
have just enough knowledge to lead them astray
in their reckonings, and, when the original impe-
cunious couple can’t see which way to turn for a
new lie, the female conspirator wards off the
approaching catastrophe by pouring a pint of
sleeping draught into the soup of their unsuspect-
ing tenants—or some of them. Then the doctored
citizens, male and female, fall asleep at meal-time
upon one another’s shoulders, and are discovered
by the wide-awake residue of the company who
took no soup. The wrath of the discoverers, the
discomfiture of the Gillibrands, and the blessings
of uncle are the last act.
» * * *
The Hawtrey Co. plays the soup comedy
moderately well, although Oily Deering and Mrs.
Lewis are the only two members of the co. whose
voices don’t want oiling at the joints. It is the
sort of fiction in which a creaky voice
serves the purpose. “In the Soup” will pre-
sumably be carried over Saturday, because next
week is Cup time, and the title of this show should
strike a sympathetic chord in the soul of all who
back the wrong animal.
* * *
Ada Willoughby, who died of heart
disease in Melbourne last week, was a particu-
larly fetching little woman when she first appeared
in Sydney, playing the part in “The Gay
Parisienne ” which was afterwards filled by Ada
Reeve. The obituary notices would make her out
to have been only 20 years of age at that time, but
she was probably older. Ada Willoughby’s second
visit to Australia was an unlucky venture. Her
engagement with George Musgrove for his
“ Aladdin ” panto, season lasted only nine weeks
or so—eight weeks at Melbourne Princess’s, and
the rest in Sydney, where Musgrove cut short all
the pantomime engagements on account of the
plague, and disbanded the co. Then George
Willoughby got a divorce from his wife,
and soon afterwards she joined the World’s
Entertainers Co. There wasn’t much in that
for her. Then she popped up as manageress at
the Victoria Hall, Melb, with “ The Wrong Mrs.
Wright,” and what time her show was suffering a
frost she had to meet some legal proceedings by
Willoughby and Geach, the proprietors of
“ Wrong Mr. Wright.” A brief and frosty season
at the Gaiety Theatre (Melb.) didn’t improve Ada
Willoughby’s health. Nothing more was heard of
her until she was engaged by Rickards to appear
at Melb. Opera House last Saturday. Hearing
that she was ill, Rickards postponed the date of
her first appearance for a week, but the future
had no more salary in store for poor little Ada.
She dropped dead last Wednesday night, and her
second husband buried her.
** * *
This is the last week of the saddest season
Maggie Moore has ever struck in Melbourne.
“The Widow from Japan” was tried at the
Royal on Saturday with cheerless results. Three
nights of that unfortunate experiment are now
being followed by the same period of “Uncle
Tom’s Cabin,” wherein Maggie Moore appears—
if the advt. spoke truth—as Topsy, a Black Imp
of mischief. This Saturday (Nov. Ist) the Ander-
son Co. returns to business at the Royal, refreshed
by a month’s absence. The drama chosen for the
occasion is “ The Favorite,” a tale of dissipation
and Gee-gee, decorated with choicest Turf effects.
#* * *
At Her Majesty's they are getting along
well enough with “ The Toreador.” A large per-
centage of bucolic audience that has not pre-
viously experienced three or four similar comedies
is just now regarding “T.T.” with respectful ad-
miration. Melbourne in general would have been
more taken by the latest Williamsonian frivolity
if it had happened a year earlier. The trouble
with musical comedies is in their feeble spirit of
emulation as regards plot and characters and
chorus drill. Six men were employed to manufacture
“The Toreadoi',” and not one of them had a strik-
ingly new idea, or even a half original idea. They
plagiarised from plagiarism in some eases. They
took various bits of old material and dove-tailed
one bit into another. And when the “ book ” was
ready the stage-managers directed the chorus-
singers to range themselves in the regulation
line, or orthodox semi - circle, and nod or
shake their heads in unison this time ex-
actly as they nodded or shook them last time.
The sameness of musical - comedy is more
marked than the sameness in other and older
branches of stage industry. There’s an English
variety of sameness and an American ditto ditto.
The English article has held possession of the
Australian market for some years. A reversion
to the American musical comedy (which begins
with everybody wanting to go to a masquerade
ball, and ends in them all getting there) is just
about due. We begin to yearn for the fat tenor
who sang of a love which was sweeter than a
purloined chicken.
** * *
Frank Thornton is finishing a farewell
season at the Princess’s in the silent goloshes of
Rev. Robert Spalding, and on Friday night he
will suffer his very last insult at Uncle Catter-
mole’s hands and feet. The Musgrove Comedy
Co. resumes practice on Saturday, when Mel-
bourne will get its first introduction to Marie
Corelli’s well-known friend, “Satan, the Sor-
rowful.”
** * *
A new “turn” at Rickards’ is supplied
by Cartini and Sambo, who commit somersaults
and other muscular gambols on a succession of
tables placed one above the other. When their
multiplication table is complete Cartini, or Sambo,
leans backwards from the topmost piece of furni-
ture and falls 120 feet through space, landing
on his chest, and seeming none the worse
for his rashness. The Drews continue to
escape from the Chinese Boxers for the
purpose of getting married instead of massa-
cred. A noticeable point in their neat one-
act drama is Mrs. Drew’s assurance that Drew
needn’t worry about her deceased husband. She
has married and buried him, and gone through the
form of mourning his loss. All the same her late
lamented is not a tender subject with the lady—
so she tells Drew. The characteristic of the
modern stage widow is simple candor. Schenk
Brothers put their heads together and arrive at a
perfect understanding as usual, but Paul Cin-
quevalli broke his rule of excellence on Saturday.
When he had got through the first half of his
entertainment with difficulty, the juggler begged
to be excused from attempting any heavy feats.
The risky cannon-ball is not a congenial toy for a
sick Cinquevalli. Also, he owes a duty to
assistant Walter, who would probably get damaged
in his sense of humor if the boss were to let him
fall from his proud position of chairman in the
second part.
*» * *
The Melba concert announced for Nov. 5,
at Melb. Town Hall, will have the advantage of
an orchestra, which was the one thing badly
wanted at the previous five concerts. Slapoffski
is to conduct, and the joy of hearing
Melba warble to a full accompaniment will
be shared by all the vice-regal persons who are
coming to Melbourne on Cup business. There is
something humorous in suggesting that the official
Earties aforesaid will serve to “shed lustre”—as
iord Brassey would have said —on a Melba con-
cert ; therefore this journal rises to repeat the
statement that Lord Tennyson and others will be
there. Guinea tickets to hear Melba and witness
the presence of Tennyson are now on sale, and the
half-guinea rush begins on Saturday morning.
** * *
Fitzgeralds’ circus is booming in Mel-
bourne, not quite as it boomed last year, but with
all the boom possible these times to any entertain-
ment which isn’t a Queen of Song or a Simul-
taneous Mission. Melbourne likes the circus
because it is unusually large, and exceptionally
smart in its fixings, and full of that noble animal the
’orse. An interesting artist in the horse line is
the Russian pony Oscar. Oscar was imported
for the purpose of walking round the ring with
his fore-feet reposing on Lizzie’s back. For the
first year or two Oscar had a soft billet, but
Lizzie has been growing taller all the time until
at last Oscar can only carry out his contract in a
series of spasmodic efforts. And he shakes his
head each time his fore-feet slip from
Lizzie’s back—shakes his head and takes
all the blame upon himself. Next Satur-
day, or some time later, Pagel, the Australian
Strong Man, will appear in the Fitzgerald arena,
and do a number of astounding things which San-
dow didn’t. There are no reasonable limits to the
lifting and hoisting powers of the appalling Pagel,
and it is believed that unless brothers Dan and
Tom keep their Pagel under control, he will either
lift the elephant from the ground with his front
teeth, or perish in the attempt.
The Federal Exhibition which Jules
Joubert has been preparing for some months past
will be opened at Melb. Exhibition Building on
Friday afternoon. State Governor Clarke and
the ladies of his local vice-regal family, likewise
their suite, will smile upon the occasion, whilst
the orchestra and a choir of 400 voices perform a
new Australian hymn.
#* * *
“A Modern Magdalen,” Haddon Cham-
bers’ play, produced for absolutely the first time
at Adelaide Royal, is something between “ Magda”
and “Iris.” It would be very like the former,
only that the monumental German father is
here represented by a kind of moral hole in the
ground. At the last moment, obligation to “the
Danish of A. Jensen ” was announced. The yarn
probably came to Chambers (who is not suspected
of reading Danish in the original) through a
French translation, which peeps out in such
phrases as: “What are you telling me? My
God ! You are killing me ! ” Dolores is a quiet
but attractive girl, to whom men seem to
habitually make giddy proposals at sight.
Perhaps they know best, for when her family
badly needs money she departs to guilty splendor
with one gentleman who had left his card on the
off-chance. And she soon ruins him. Still there
remain two standing offers of marriage—from
Allan, who is a nice boy but penniless, and Bed-
dington, who is stout and wealthy and middle-
aged and very resolute. “I don’t care a damn
whether you come to me as wife or mistress,
so that I get you,” he tells her cheerfully.
Then, for no valid reason, Dolores tries to
poison herself, but Allan dashes the glass
from her hand, which makes a nice curtain
for Act 3, but renders suicide artistically
impossible as an end to the play. And the author
hasn’t the pluck to hand her over to Beddington,
so Allan decides to go and shoot some Spaniards
and take her to nurse them. After which it is
understood they will marry on the same empty
purse that has hitherto kept them apart. The last
act is weak, especially in view of the strong ending
of “Iris.” Beddington is first cousin to Mal-
donado, and he has the stage to himself at the
finish ; but he only bites his thumb, and breaks
nothing but the third commandment. The acting
is splendid—much better than the play. Nellie
Stewart, in a part of gloom, with hardly a smile
in it, scores heavily all the time, whether scornful,
alluring or reckless. Haddon Chambers need not
look further for his heroine. Harcourt Beatty is
finely artistic as the father of Dolores, a character
two-thirds Mieawber and the rest Eccles. The
chief humor of the play lies in his moral plati-
tudes, varied by a mechanical reach for the
whisky. The violent person who dominates the
whole action, and gets everything he wants,
except Dolores, might have been written for Gran,
and Sapping revels in the burlesque part of a
journalist, long-haired and offensively pious, whose
mission is “to expose the vice of this great city,”
and who works hard to accumulate experience
and material. The laugh of the evening is his
when he speaks of leaving the Press for the pulpit,
“having been approached by the Wesleyans.”
Other people lend effective help in a scene of
devilry by night, the uproarious banquet behind
folding doors at the back being pleasantly adapted
from the customs of one Marcus Superbus. The
scene of the play is understood to be New York,
though nothing (except the Cuban war) goes to
show it. The actors haven’t the trace of an accent
among them, which is odd, considering how many
players now in Australia talk United States
because they can’t help it.
The Wild Cat Column.
The National Bank of Australasia (Mel-
bourne) shows a slight improvement in profits :
Dividends. Added
Profits. Ordinary Preference to Re- Re-
-3 p.c. 5 p.c. serves, serves
March, 1896 ..£10,523 £7,644 £2,879 £12,437
Sept., 1896.. 11,706 7,644 4,062 16,499
March, 1897 .. 14,711 7,644 7,067 23,566
Sept., 1897.. 18,275 7,644 10,631 84,197
March, 1898.. 15,471 7,644 7,827 42,024
Forfeited Capital added to Reserves .. 45,456 87,480
Sept., 1898.. 17,602 7,644 9,958 97,438
March, 1899.. 12,323 7,644 4,679 102,117
Sept., 1899 .. 19,245 7,644 11,601 113,718
March, 1900.. 22,152 7,644 14,508 128,226
Forfeited Capital added to Reserves .. 4,977 133,203
£68,000 written off Reserves 65,203
Sept., 1900.. 27,065 £17,887 7,644 1,534 66,737
March, 1901 .. 28,448 17,887 7,644 2,917 69,654
H p.c.
Sept., 1901.. 32,050 20,868 7,644 3,538 73,192
March, 1902.. 34,394 20,868 7,644 5,882 79,074
Sept., 1902.. 35,038 20,868 7,644 6,526 85,600
The earnings represent £4 Bs. lOd. per cent, per annum
on the shareholders’ funds as at the commencement of
half-year, which is not a large or prosperous-looking per-
centage, though a little better than the £4 7s. 7d. per
cent, earned six months ago.
Compared with six months ago, there is a
decrease in note circulation, bill circulation, deposits,
State debentures, liquid securities generally, and advances
—in fact, there is a decline in the size of the business all
round. Compared with a year ago, which is probably a
fairer method, the principal items are :
Sept., Sept., .
1901. 1962. Increase.
Reserves .. .. £73,192 £85,600 £12,408
Note Circulation .. 288,448 295,327 6,870
Profits 32,050 35,038 2,988
Deposits 6,070,579 6,066,709 3,870
Advances .. .. 5,225,288 5,044,374 180,914
Cash&LiquidSecurities 2,920,814 2,634,226 286,588
Bill Circulation .. 969,332 413,970 555,362
These are considerable shrinkages, but a good many
things are shrinking in Australia just now. The National
Bank’s progress, however, is decidedly slow ; its earn-
ings are only moderate, and the reserve is taking a long
time to get up to the £lOO,OOO limit again.
* * * *
New South Wales 3 per cent, securities dropped
in London late last week to £9l 2s. 6d. per £lOO. That
means that N.S.W. would be very lucky to float a new’ 3
per cent, loan now at £B9 net. It is the lowest figure
N.S.W. 3 per cents, have ever reached, also it is consicteij'-
ably below the price of 3 per cents, of any other
Australasian State. Even Queensland’s 3 per cents, are
quoted at £92, and Victoria’s at £93 15s.
* * * •
The Australian Alliance Assurance Co.
(Melbourne), which does life, fire, marine, and fidelity


TRA.MWA.-STS. TRAMWAYS.
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Proprietary, Ltd.,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Representing ORENSTEIN & KOPPEL LTD., of LONDON and BERLIN,
Equip Complete TRAMWAYS and supply Every Description of Tramway Material
Locomotives from. 10 to 250 h.p.
STOCKS IN SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE include Rails and Accessories, Steel
Sleepers, Turntables, Switches, Side Tipping Trucks, Steel Wheels, &c. Technical
advice gratuitously rendered. Flying and Permanent Surveys arranged. Illustrated
Catalogues and Photographic Albums showing Tramways constructed in different
parts of the World, upon application. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
FOR SALE...
Assaying & Metallurgical Business.
Principal City. Plant and Fixtures Complete.
Splendid opportunity progressive energetic man.
rtETAL, “Bulletin,” Melbourne.
Norman Godkin, of 31 Qneen-street, Melbourne*,
Is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big- prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “ Option,”
Melbourne.*
* » * »
If you want to borrow money, go to N. S. W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * » •
A. Kozminsky, 106 Queen-street, Melbourne,
having returned from his visit to England, is now pre-
pared to purchase approved Mines and Mining Properties
situated in any part of Australasia requiring Capital for
Development and Machinery. Only genuine and
legitimate ventures, capable of bearing the strictest
examinations, will be entertained.*
* * * *
A revolution in smelting furnaces seems pro-
bable. The aid of gasoline has not been recognised.
Ernest de Beer, 439 Bourke-street, Melbourne, supplies
forms to suit assayers, which are marvellous in their
efficiency.*
* * * *
The Gardner Electric Rock Drill, which has
been lately introduced into Australia, is being very
largely adopted in the mines of the United States, and is
giving great satisfaction. This electric drill is filling a
long-felt want now that electricity is being so largely
adopted for all mining purposes. The Gardner Electric
Drill is very simple and easily handled, drills as fast as
the air drill, and costs much less to instal in a mine,
especially in out-of-the-way places. It requires only one-
fifth of the power required to operate an air drill ‘doing
the same work, so the saving in fuel soon pays its cost.
The Gardner Drill at the North Gippsland Proprietary
mine, Victoria, has been in use for eight months, has
done all the drilling for a tunnel 1500 feet long in very
hard country, and the manager speaks highly in favor of
it. The Tarcoola Blocks Co., South Australia, has ordered
a complete equipment for six electric drills and lighting
plant for the mine to be worked by an oil engine of 16-
horse power. The Sole Australian Agents, the Austral
Otis Engineering Co., South Melbourne, will supply
catalogues and estimates on request.*
• • • •
The Money Market Review, London, writes
of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society’s latest
report: “ The report reflects cautious, vigorous, econo-
mical and successful administration in every department,
and shows that the Colonial Mutual is not only holding’
but steadily improving its grip on the public respect and
confidence.”*
* * * *
Mine managers, engineers, &c., will learn with
interest that the Dunlop Rubber Mills, Melbourne, are
now prepared to quote prices and submit samples of
suction, drill or air hose, packing, valves, &c., of the
highest quality at prices previously unobtainable in
Australasia. Depots in all States. Correspondence
invited.*
* * * *
Complaints of stagnation in the engineering
trade are as rife as ever, but, judging by the large stock
of Refrigerating and Ice-making machinery now at the
engineering works of Mephan Ferguson, Melbourne, he
must expect to do a large business in these machines
during the coming summer season. The prices for all
sizes have been greatly reduced, and purchasers are
invited to inspect and test these Refrigerators before
purchasing. This firm has also introduced up-to-date
machinery for manufacturing bolts and nuts, rivets, do°-
spikes and every discription of ironwork.*
•_* * .
The best investment in Australia is buying land
at Esperance, Western Australia, the natural port of the
Kalgoorlie goldfields. With a railway, Esperance will
become one of our busiest ports, as the trade with the
goldfields will pass through it. A permanent survey is
now being made. The railway is a certainty. Get in
early and make a fortune by purchasing a few blocks
before the great rush sets in. Price, £2O block; terms,
£1 a month. Write for plans and particulars to The
Perth Land Company, 101 Swanston-street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
Many doubtful claims have been advanced on
behalf of duplex pumps. Some makers state that their
duplex pumps are “ double the capacity of single pumps
of same diameter and stroke.” An A. S. Cameron single-
acting pump can be run safely and comfortably at a speed
that would knock a duplex pump to pieces. But even at
a low speed, duplex pumps seldom attain even their
theoretical capacities, and the reason for this can be
readily explained. Apply to the Agents, Messrs. W. and
J. Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, for
further particulars. The A. S. Cameron pumps are noted
for their simplicity, durability, and absence of outside
valve gear.*
* * • •
“ The first authentic information given to the
public” re the Great Australian Quicksilver Co., Yugil-
bar, Clarence River (N.S.W.), was published in a Sydney
evening paper, the other day. It is stated that “ depart-
mental assays of the ore have been made on several occa-
sions, and they have all returned not less than 50 per
cent, of quicksilver, and one about 60 per cent.” Mer-
cury is worth at least 2s. 6d. per lb., so that the value of
50 per cent, ore will be £l4O per ton. The Bulletin has
expressed some doubts about this show, but in view of
this “authentic” statement it must unreservedly with-
draw all that it has said and offer its congratulations to
the “many prominent residents of Sydney" on their
being the possessors of that which, on such showing, is
the biggest thing of its kind on earth. In other parts of
the world 2 percent, is high-grade ore. This “ authentic”
item establishes three records for Sydney: (1) It has
struck a big thing ; (2) it has stuck to it; (3) it has taken
no “steps whatever either directly or indirectly, to
advertise or boom it."
SWEET SLICED MANGO
“SUN BRAND” INDIAN CHUTNEY
Quarts and Pints, obtainable from all reputable
Grocers and Storekeepers throughout the Com*
monwealth of Australia and New Zealand.
Insist on getting - - “SUN BRAND.'
business, closed a profitable year on 31st August, 1902.
This co. had, up to 1893, a paid-up capital of £50,000,
and very large reserves, but by capitalising £75,000 of the
reserves it made its capital £125,000 ; and its 40 per cent,
dividend accordingly began to look like 16 per cent.
The following statement is based on the £50,000
original capital, and shows the real dividends. It exhibits
the profits of the fire, marine and fidelity business, sup-
plemented by the occasional annexation of surplus profits
from the life branch: —
Share-
Prnflf-a Dividends on Written
Profits. £sojooo Capital . off. °^ al
Reserves
1892 £282,341
1893 £22,748 40 per cent. = £20,000 285,089
1894 16,230 40 „ „ 20,000 £22,972 258,347
1895 9,304 27$ „ „ 13,750 1,335 252,566
£18,874 life branch surplus added to reserves 271,440
1896 19,865 30 per cent. = 15,000 10,654 265,651
1897 11,850 30 „ „ 15,000 14,790 247,711
Loss.
1898 14,974 15 „ „ 7,500 439 224,798
£9236 life branch surplus added to reserves 234,034
Profits.
1899 18,044 25 percent. = 12,500 34,182 225,396
1900 14,779 25 „ „ 12,500 6,581 221,094
1901 12,634 25 „ „ 12,500 997 220,231
1902 13,593 25 „ „ 12,500 46 221,278
For once in a long course of years the disastrous fading
away of this big concern seems to have been checked—to
a very small extent. But the shareholders’ funds are
still £61,000 less than they were ten years ago, a result
which is largely owing to the payment of ridiculous, reck-
less, and exorbitant dividends, and the failure to make
any serious attempt to provide out of earnings for the
depreciation of the assets. The co. describes itself as
having £125,000 of paid-up capital (£75,000 of this is
capitalised profit), and £96,278 of reserves. But whether
there are really anything like these reserves it is impos-
sible to say. Much more than half the assets are described
as “ book value,” and “ book value” often has a dismal
habit nowadays of being a long way above real value.
Sometimes it isn’t, but these times are exceptional. In
any case, “ actual present value ” would sound much less
non-committal than “ book value.”
In its life department, the Australian Alliance
Assurance Go. does very little new business, as a rule.
This year, however, there is a sudden boom, apparently
mostly in single-premium assurance. The new premium
income for 1901, apart from annuity business, was £l6.
For 1902, it is set down as £12,561, which is a remarkable
difference. The life department record for the last few
years has been as follows :
Total
Receipts. Outgoings. Assurance
Premiums. Interest. Claims. Expenses. Fund.
1896 £20,800 £11,033 £30,604 £4065 £280,328
1897 21,029 10,717 23,111 4177 284,786
1898 17,921 10,965 27,100 4158 282,414
£9236 written off assets .. .. 273,178
1899 16,957 10,794 24,044 3731 273,154
1900 14,900 9,448 33,568 3761 260,173
1901 14,340 10,416 31,237 3914 249,778
1902 25,625 10,340 25,531 2743 257,469
The increase in the income and the reduction in expenses
are both good features. Still it doesn’t appear that the
Australian Alliance has any intention to resume active
life business on a large scale. It is rather a pity that
what was once a very respectable connection should be
thus allowed to die out, just when proprietary life assur-
ance business is coming into fashion again, and is being
practised by much worse institutions than the old
Alliance.
• • * *
N.S.W. Statistician Coghlan has just issued his
“ Statistics of the Six States of Australia and Maoriland ”
—probably the largest, most useful and most interesting
mass of statistics that was ever condensed into 84 pages.
It is difficult-to remember when the financial misdeeds of
seven reckless Governments were put in a smaller space.
• * * *
The County of Bourke Permanent Building
and Investment Society (Melbourne)
8 Pro P ert y Dividends. Reserves.
1895 .. Sa —‘ Nil £14,686
1896 .. £l2l £4,511 Nil 10,296
1897 .. 1,731 5,657 Nil 6,370
1898 .. 3,758 2,917 Nil 7,211
£66,812 capital written off, of which £2,449
was added to reserves 9,660
This proceeding reduced the capital from £164,962 to
£98,150, and the County of Bourke Society practically
commenced afresh:—
Net
Business Profit on
Profits. Property Dividends. Reserves.
Sales.
1898 £9,660
1899 .. £4,888 £1,740 6p.c. = £5,889 10,405
1900 .. 6,010 1,561 6 „ „ 5,889 12,087
1901 .. 7,363 2,869 6 „ „ 5,888 16,431
1902 .. 8,338 3,913 7$ „ „ 7,361 21,321
These figures represent good substantial progress, still, it
is a question whether the society isn’t putting up its
dividend rather too fast. Since 1898, the reserves have
increased by £14,110, made up as follows :
Capital written off and added to reserves.. .. £2,449
Capital applied to write-down properties ; and
afterwards recovered as profits on property
sales ... ... ... ... 10,089
Undivided profits ... ... ... „. ... 1,672
£14,110
The two first-named items are not profits, but capital.
Out of the actual profits of the business, very little indeed
has been saved towards strengthening the institution.
The earnings are increasing very handsomely, and it is
highly advisable to build up a solid reserve out of these
earnings in order that the institution may be in a strong
position when the next public disaster comes along.
The County of Bourke Society now owes a little
less than £ll,OOO to depositors. It owed near £190,000
under this heading 12 years ago, so it has paid off practi-
cally £lBO,OOO. The present position is much the safer of
the two, and, if the institution wants to recover its old
dimensions, the best way to do it is to accumulate
£lBO,OOO of reserves and give the deposit business a wide
berth.
* » * V
The Castlemaine Brewery and Wood
Brothers and Co. (Newcastle, N.S.W.), a concern with
£250,000 paid-up capital :
Written XT . ,
Profits. Dividends. off (depre-
ciation). reserves.
1900.. £41,890
1901.. £13,093 4 p.c. =£lo,ooo £3OOO 41,983
1902.. 13,185 4„ = 10,000 3000 42,168
The principal item in the balance-sheet is still described
as “ Freehold and Leasehold Properties, Buildings,
Machinery, Plant, Goodwill, Rolling-stock, &c., £211,102.”
How much of this is goodwill doesn’t appear, but the
amount, whatever it may be, requires to be deducted
from the above nominal reserves before the real reserves
can be arrived at. Shareholders can’t bear too carefully in
mind: (1) That goodwill is always a dubious item, and often
a purely paper item ; (2) that it is an item which may vary
to almost any extent according as the valuer is sanguine
or pessimistic, and in the present case one authority
might put it down at £5OOO and another, quite as con-
scientiously, at £50,000. Under these circumstances, the
habit of lumping in goodwill with real assets, so that the
exact amount of this debateable item is concealed, should
be suppressed by Act of Parliament. The Castlemaine
Brewery and Wood Brothers and Co. is doing only
moderately well; the profits are small enough to suggest
that some writing-down of values might not be amiss.
Also, the co. has a net overdraft of £34,755, which must
entail a heavy burden in interest, though as the liability
a year ago was £35,968 a considerable improvement has
been effected on this item.
The Colonial Permanent Buildino and
Investment Society (Melbourne), dating- from the time
it left off paying dividends (it paid 8 per cent, in 1893) :
Profits. Reserves.
Sept., 1894 «. £lO4 £11,342
Loss. „ • „
„ 1895 .. 1501 _
Deficit.
„ 1896 .. 823 £9495 477
„ . 1897 .. 920 1. 397
„ 1898 .. 284 9827 H. 508
„ 1899 .. 559 12,067
„ 1900 .. 548 12,615
„ 1901 .. 549 1005 14,169
„ 1902 .. 310 1244 15,723
The paid-up capital of the Colonial Permanent Building
and Investment Society is £48,000, so there still remains
intact on paper £32,277. How much, if any, of the
capital will remain when the £68,967 (nominal value) of
properties in possession are realised upon, and the losses
written off is another thing. A little progress is being
made at paying off liabilities, as shown below :
Owing to creditors
other than Paid off during
shareholders year.
1898 .. .. £57,911 .. ..
1899 .. .. 54,949 .. .. £2,962
1900 .. .. 52,796 .. .. 2,153
1901 .. .. 51,670 .. .. 1,126
1902 .. .. 48,065 .. .. 3,605
In this case, as in many others, the old deposits are being
paid off under the scheme of arrangement, the old
advances are being called in, and the foreclosed proper-
ties sold off ; and as no new deposits seem to be coming
in or new business being done, the institution grows
steadily smaller. It will almost certainly in time become
so small that the earnings can’t possibly pay office ex-
penses, and then the rent and the gas bill will eat it up.
If some of the shareholders would put up £30,000 or so
of preference capital the institution might become a live
and prosperous concern again ; but the present process
of living on its own tail leaves it practically no hope.
*•• * *
The Mutual Fire Insurance Co. op Tas-
mania (Launceston, Tasmania), dating from the time
when it gave up the old conservative idea of secrecy and
commenced to publish its accounts
Net Dividends and Added to Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves. serves.
1898.. £17,417
1899.. £4978 7 per cent. =£2756 £2222 19,639
1900.. 4403 7 „ 2756 1647 21,286
1901.. 3793 7 „ 2756 1037 22,323
1902.. 4541 7 2756 1785 24,108
The reserves consist of reserve fund, £13,000; contin
gency fund, £4OOO ; re-insurance fund, £2914 ; and
undivided profit, £4194 (why so large an amount
should be kept under the last heading is diffi-
cult to say). Paid-up capital is £37,500, so, by compari-
son, the reserves are very solid. The premium income is
increasing steadily, but even now it is only £5828, so the
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. of Tasmania is in the remark-
able situation of having a reserve fund which equals four
years’ premiums, while the total shareholders’ funds
equal nearly 11 years’ premiums. The income from
investments alone (£2839) more than pays the 7 per cent,
dividend. There are very few fire offices which can show
such solidity as this. Shares are £1 paid-up, with a£4
liability—which is a drawback from an investment point
of view.
• • * «
Tooth and Co., Limited, brewers, Sydney:—
Added
Net Dividends to Re “ Re "
Profits. Dividends. serves . gerveB
March, 1897 £40,055 7 per cent. = £31,500 £8555 £78,441
Sept., 1897 33,074 7 „ „ 31,500 1574 80,015
March, 1898 40,278 7 „ „ 31,500 8778 88,793
Sept;, 1898 33,625 7 „ „ 31,500 2125 90,918
March, 1899 40,741 7 „ „ 31,500 9241 100,159
Sept., 1899 35,706 7 „ „ 31,500 4206 104,365
March, 1900 37,979 7 „ „ 31,500 6479 110,844
Sept., 1900 36,451 7 „ „ 31,500 4951 115,795
March, 1901 39,898 7 „ „ 31,500 8398 124,193
Sept., 1901 37,269 7 „ „ 31,500 5769 129,962
March, 1902 41,536 8 „ „ 36,000 5536 135,498
Sept., 1902 40,768 8 „ „ 36,000 4768 140,266
Of the. reserves £130,926 is invested in N.S.W. State
securities, which is a very solid guarantee that the
prosperity is genuine. Otherwise the above accounts
require no comment. Beer is mighty and will prevail—
if rightly administered.
• * * »
Willoughby (N.S.W.) municipality, which has
hitherto been doing very well, now intends to borrow
£3OOO to build a town hall. One can almost divide the
solvent and the embarrassed municipalities by separating
them into two classes, those that have no town halls and
those that have them. A town hall is very rarely a
paying spec.; it generally is only a monument to the
vanity of the aldermen responsible for its erection ; and
it should never be built out of borrowed money. There
are about 44 town halls in and around Sydney—practi-
cally all built with borrowed money. Some of them have
bailiffs in or thereabouts, and some haven’t.
• * • ■
The Tasmanian Permanent Executors and
Trustees Association (Launceston, Tasmania)
Dividends Added
Profits. and to Re-
Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
Sept., 1896 ... £ll7 5 p.c. = £262 £428
March, 1897 ... 237 5 „ „ 262 403
Sepc., 1897 .. 264 5 „ „ 262 £2 405
March, 1898 .. 387 5 „ „ 262 125 530
Sept., 1898 .. 405 5 „ „ 262 143 673
March, 1899 .. 316 5 „ „ 262 54 727
Sept., 1899 .. 376 5 „ „ 262 113 840
March, 1900 .. 454 5 „ „ 262 192 1032
Sept., 1900 ..397 5 „ „ 262 135 1167
March, 1901 ..760 6 „ „ 315 445 1612
Sept., 1901 ..623 6 „ „ 315 208 1820
March, 1902 .. 465 6 ~ ~ 315 150 1970
Sept., 1902 ..626 6 „ „ 315 311 2281
This little institution appears to be making respectable
headway and to have got over the long preliminary
period of stagnation from which it suffered.
• • • #
Atlas Co., Kalpini (W.A.), which will start
crushing shortly with a 10-head mill, is so weighed down
with capital that failure seems inevitable. Co.’s Camellia
lease is opened up to 300 ft. and contains a good-sized
reef worth from 12 to 15dwts., or, say, 50s. a ton. The
mill will treat 1000 tons monthly at a maximum profit of
£1 a ton, or (say) £12,000 yearly. This will mean a pos-
sible return of 4 per cent, on the capital, which is an
absurd figure for such a “ security."
**- • *
Sinking of the main shaft of the Associated
Northern (W.A.) has been resumed, and will be pushed
down to prove the ground prospected by boring. To
reach the point where the first bore cut 12Jft. of 17Jdwt.
ore 340 ft. will have to be sunk, and another 200 ft. with a
70ft. west cross-cut to reach the rich ore pierced by the
second bore. Theory now is that the lode which was
underlying rather strongly to the west has been straight-
ened up by an intrusive dyke from an angle of 35' to 75'
at 900 ft. Co. has taken over the Lakeside battery from
the Boulder Perseverance, and will treat about 1700 tons
of oxidised ore monthly. Ore now en route to smelters
tots up to 3000 tons, worth £lOO,OOO. Since flotation of
co. 8500 tons have yielded 75,0000 z., worth £300,000. Of
this amouno costs have mopped up £42,500, while £87,500
has been divided, leaving about £170,000 in hand in
addition to the original working capital of £lOO,OOO. As
the warden has refused to grant further exemption on the
outlying blocks which have been shepherded for the past
eight years, the Menindie Hill and Iron Monarch are to be
shortly tested by bores.
* * • *
Great Fingal has been under a cloud lately, but,
so far as inquiries go, developments are not the cause of
the scrip sagging away. No. 8 level has followed the gold
chute 350 ft., and No. 7 900 ft., the ore in both levels being
of average payable grade. Below No. 8 one winze isdown
120 ft. and another 100 ft., both in very high-grade ore.
' Day Dawn shaft sunk BOOfb. west of Armstrong shaft—
which passed through the reef at 400 ft.—is down 120 ft.
below No. 8 level, and should cut the reef at 1000 ft.
Blasting by electricity has been introduced and proved a
great success. During Sept, the 60-head mill ran 29 days
and treated 7327 tons for 12,0320 z., worth £38,783. This
works out at £5 6s. lOd. a ton, exactly the same value as
for August, and 2s. Bd. less than for July. The mill
return was again poor, dropping from 24.7 dwt. to 23.7
dwt., but the cyanide return rose from9.sdwt. to 11.4dwt.
Owing to this fact the value of the gold shows a fall from
£3 ss. lOd. in Aug. to £3 4s. 6d. in Sept., as against
£3 7s. lOd. in July. Costs are still relatively high, as
building operations are still in progress, Profits are,
nevertheless, in the neighborhood of 50s. a ton, or nearly
£20,000 a month. Some apprehensive shareholders have
received authority for Mr. J. Youlden, late of Boulder
Central, to examine the mine on their behalf. Rumors
of an increase of treatment plant are afloat, but are
premature.
* * * »
The Oroya-Brown Hill (W.A.) made a better
showing for Sept, than for Aug. and increased its out-
put by 1000 oz., the figures being 85060 z. from 4014 tons.
The value of a ton of ore in Aug. was £6 Bs., and £7 15s. 6d.
in Sept. Aug. costs are given at the exorbitant figure of
£4 3s. 9d., of which £1 Is. 2d. is relegated to capital
account. According to the last balance-sheet of Brown
Hill co., £6OOO royalty was paid on the 20,000 tons treated
since the installation of the Diehl process, or at the ex-
orbitant rate of 6s. a ton. In addition to this, cyanide
cost Bs. a ton against Is. 6d. by the ordinary process. In
the Brown Hill report very little information is forth-
coming regarding the mine, and the usual map is
missing. Is it a fact that the lode has been fol-
lowed perilously near, if not actually into, the True
Blue West, owned by Hannan’s Central co., now
merged in the Kalgurli Amalgamated ? There is still no
news regarding the rich chute in Oroya No. 8 level.
Brown Hill scrip is to be used for the new co. with the
name Oroya prefixed.
* • * •
Boulder Main Reef (W.A.) has great difficulty
in keeping its treatment plant going, and like its neigh-
bor, Hannan’s Star, is likely soon to give up the
struggle in despair. During Sept., 1966 tons were
treated for 14610 z., or 14dwt. 20gr. per ton, the worst
average ever returned by the mine. At annual meeting
in May, chairman stated that an offer had been made for
the property on the basis of £1 per share, but this had
been scornfully rejected by the hoard. According to
present prospects, shareholders will be lucky if they
eventually get 6d.
• • • •
Boulder Perseverance still holds the pride of
place among W.A. producers, the Sept, figures being
16,5470 z. from 11,748 tons. Besides being the record
output of the mine, it also shows the best average of the
past three years. Of the gold won, 12340 z. came from
oxidised ore treated at the Lakeside battery. _ As this
source of supply has run out, the sulphide mill will have to
treat some 800 tons extra in future to fill the gap. Treat-
ment costs are 21s. a ton, and if the other items are put on
the liberal basis of the Ivanhoe, the total works out at
455. . As the ore is worth £5 a ton the net profit is 555.
a ton or £32,000 monthly, more than sufficient to return
200 per cent, on the nominal capital. So far as it is ascer-
tainable in this close preserve, the mine continues to
develop splendidly, and can easily maintain its present
output. The 900 ft. level is being opened up and the shaft
being carried still deeper.
* * * •
Morning Star, Mt. Magnet (W.A.), now under
working option to Bewick, Moreing and Co., does not
seem to be in very good fettle, the latest results only
running between 6 and 7dwts. per ton. A Ballarat co.
has held the property since 1894 and treated 68,200 tons
for 43,1000 z., the profit being about £30,000. The Ballarat
Co.’s capital was £45,000, of which £20,000 odd was called
up. The property is equipped with a dilapidated battery
and cyanide plant, both of which are quite out of date.
The proposition hardly looks like lending itself to a Bull
capitalisation.
• • * *
Lake View Extended (W.A.), which was formed
into a co. of £115,000 in 1896, vendors receiving £40,000
cash, was sold by the liquidator the other day for £3400.
The next that will be heard of it will probably be an
attempt to float it as the Oroya Something-or-Other.
• • * *
Mt. Garnet directors say : “If large quantities
of payable siliceous ore could be purchased, the co.’s low-
grade basic ores could be treated with perhaps some
profit.” On the Garnet tariff there would be no “perhaps”
about it—there would be enormous profits out of other
mines. Published returns of ore (over 50 per cent, excess
silica) sent by Tartana co. to Garnet show an average of
about 12 per cent, copper and some silver. Claimed that
as Tartana quarries are opened up on a bigger scale,
cleaner ore, with higher copper contents, could be
delivered. Could Tartana make a profit? The reply may
be figured out from the Garnet tariff : Deduction for loss
in smelting, I‘s unit; smelting charge, 255. per ton;
realization charge, 6s per unit, or £25 per ton of copper.
These combined charges represent nearly £5 per ton of
ore, and the value of the metal allowed for would be
about £5 10s. per ton. Garnet is not likely to get enough
“customs" work on these terms to pull it out of the fire.
These figures illustrate the general extortion practised by
smelting cos. Garnet, on manager’s showing, can mine,
smelt and dispose of the product of £4 ss. ore at a profit
of 15s. per ton, yet for smelting outsiders’ ore—specially
valuable to it as a flux—it charges £5 per ton; it takes
the oyster—shell and all.
a • • •
Mt. Garnet failure should be a warning to
speculators to avoid mines which are burdened with
debentures. System is pernicious; it is not generally
prompted by any legitimate mining consideration, but
rather as a device to help a few to make piles by market
manipulations. Garnet expenditure on mine equipment
was about £65,000 which, presumably, was paid out of
subscribed capital, but its railway, which cost £95,000,
was covered by debentures secured not only on the line,
but also on mine and plant. Figures are not available to
show what mine development ran into ; but say it was
£50,000, and we have about £200,000 as the total cost of
mine and railway which ought to have been provided for
out of capital. Shares for a long time had a market
value of £450,000, and, once, reached £600,000. Specu-
lators being willing to deal in the stock on these terms,
was there any just reason why they should not have
been asked, in the first instance, to put £200,000
into the coffers of the co. and thus have secured
the property—for what it might be worth—to
themselves ? Of course this would not be good business
from a “first robber’s” point of view ; the only proper
place for money is in his pocket. It is said that the chief
promoters of Garnet did not realise on their stock ; if so,
they will have the consolation of hearing the average
mining-man dub them fools. Anyhow, advantage
was not taken of the boom to put the co. in a strong
financial position; the mine was starved so that
“ scrippers ” might fatten. It is not contended that
debenture issues are condemnable under all circum-
stances. With a thoroughly proved mine, to properly
equip which a large sum of money has to be raised, a
debenture issue may be a convenient way of financing,
although it is not sound business to mortgage
anticipated profits to cover expenditure which ought to
be provided for out of capital. But in the case
of a mine in the purely prospecting stage no possible
justification can be offered for it. As the result of this
wrongful system Ohillagoe, Garnet, Stannary Hills, Giri-
lambone, Chesney and other mines which might be
named, are, in reality, properties which do not belong to
the scrip-holders ; latter are merely tentative possessors,
and they may pay ever so much in calls without improving
their security. Blayney mine would probably have been
working to-day and giving a good account of itself, if it
had not been cursed with an issue of short-dated deben-
tures, the money raised being squandered in many
extravagances, but, principally, as with Garnet, in pro-
viding equipment much ahead of developments. In most
instances it is a case of easily got, easily spent, without
any useful or desirable purpose being served.
» * * »
Lyell Blocks (Tas.) to be reconstructed in a co.
of 300,000 shares of ss. each. Present co. is in 300,000
shares of £1 each. Proposed to issue shares in new co.
paid to 3s. 6d., on the payment of 6d. per share. Why
the roundabout process of liquidation and reformation,
instead of increasing capital of existing co. by Is. per
share, which amount directors state will be sufficient
to provide machinery that will earn large profits ? This
is a puddling proposition—native copper in pug. 5720
tons of this material have been treated for 104 tons of
copper, or 2*62 per cent.; costs of producing concentrates
under 10s. per ton of ore; pug in sight, 600,000 tons.
This is the official estimate ; but evidently Melbourne
people doubt it, as, since it was published, shares have
become almost unsaleable. On these figures there is a
profit of £125,000 to be earned on an expenditure of
£15,000, yet Melbourne shareholders say to Londoners —
“ keep it.” Wonderful self-denial or abnormal greed, or
a fixed belief that Ananias is abroad I
• * » *
Briseis (Tas.) shares still on the down-grade.
The Solons of the daily press assert that the reason is
forced realisation by big London holders who have
been heavily hit in Kaffirs. It is only natural that a
bashed “ bull ” should mount the house-top and bellow
his woes—“ my right eye has been bunged in the Kaffir
circus ; now, step up, gents, and bang me on the left ! ”
Bulletin’s advices are that there is a fear in tin-circles
that there will be a fall in the value of the metal. Fur-
ther, it is alleged that the removal of the overburden at
Briseis is proving more costly than was estimated. But
all these reports may have a common source —a well-
organised “ bear” movement.
• • • *
Coolgarra Tin Co.’s (N.Q.) battery is telling
the usual tale. Last return, 14 tons 14 cwt. of tin oxide
from 870 tons of ore, or about I'7 per cent. Reduced to
metallic tin, the return is only a trifle over 1£ per cent.
Adelaide may skite its head off, but it will never
convince any outsider that this is a payable average.
Before the battery had its say Ooolgarra was nothing less
than a 5 per cent. show. Presently it will come down to
a decimal point before the 5.
* * * *
Lachlan Goldfields (Forbes, N.S. W.), an English
co., has declared its second dividend, making Is. 6d. paid
to date. Co. consists of 75,000 shares, and it is antici-
pated that a quarterly distribution of 6d. per share will
be made. Operations have been much restricted of late
for want of water, but there is now an abundant supply.
Reported that there are large quantities of payable ore in
sight. Adjoining property being developed by another
English co. which has deserted Hauraki (M.L.), to try its
fortunes in N.S.W.


DAVID JONES & CO.
' J
HIGH-CLASS HATTERS
Panama Hats
(AS ILLUSTRATION),
37/6, 42/=, 45/= to 63/=.
Genuine Fine-Grade
Hand Selected.
George & Barrack Sts., Sydney
MARTELLS
“A genuine
old Brandy
made from
Wine.”
Medical Press.
THREE STAR
“Particularly suitable
for Medicinal
Purposes.”
Tha Lancet
BRANDY
SOCIETY
Will N.S.W. members who retrenched an
assistant stableman make a cut at anomalous
waste for purely social functions? For instance,
every M.P. is entitled to a free carriage to take
him to a Governor’s levee, and since the beginning
of Responsible Government most of them jump at
the free ride. The Devil’s Brigade are also treated
to free carriages on such occasions, and show a
spirited loyalty by jumping in. These things
don’t go into the Estimates in all their nakedness,
the Speaker managing one set and the Attorney-
General the other, but the public pays all the same
same.
* • • *
The Coronation medal presented by the
King to oversea troops invited to the Coronation
(Australian Coronation Corps amongst the rest)
represents something like a record in official
meanness and parsimony. The medal is of the
type found in children’s packets of sweets. Only
officers receive silver medals; the men’s are of
bronze, this being, as in the case of the Jubilee
medal, a departure from the tradition that the
drummer-boy and the field-marshal shall receive
identical medals. Finally, the tawdry trinkets
were coined with the date, 26th June, 1902, and
when the Coronation didn’t take place on that day,
the Imperial Government was too “near” to have
fresh ones with the correct date struck. The
decoration is about the paltriest ever issued by
the British Govt.
MISUNDERSTOOD.
VISITOR TO THE FOOTBALL-M ATCH: “ Yes, we
know now that our sons are always ready to
fight for the Empire .”
BARRACKER (chipping in): “Some of us blokes is
going to wait for the umpire after , so you
can tell your blooming sons that if they don’t
want to be dealt with, too, they’d better keep
out of it .”
“ Graciousness ” on the part of Royalty con-
sists in doing very ordinary actions half the
time, and in having them invented by the news-
papers the other half. When the oversea troops
received the Coronation medals from the King at
Buckingham Palace, Aug. 12, the Australians on
returning to their places in the line promptly sat
down and began smoking. The smoking was
suppressed by the officers, but the men were not
made to rise, and they lay at ease on the grass a
few yards from the King and other Royalties,
and watched the rest of the troops receiving their
Coronation trinkets. Many papers mentioned the
incident next morning as an indication of Aus-
tralian free-and-easiness. The cables, however,
published in Australian papers made the King
give his gracious permission to the men to lie
down and smoke, “ as if off-saddled on the veldt.”
* ♦ * *
Extracts from letters re various returned
soldiers to the M.L. papers :
I found that my billet had been taken up, and I am
therefore out of work—a poor reward for twelve months’
service at the front.
My son served in the Tenth Contingent, and three
years in the Seddon Horse, rising to the rank of ser-
geant. Volunteering cost him fully £4O. His position
was filled up during his absence, and he is unable to get
work. Surely it is the duty of the Government to find
work for returned troopers or place them on the land.
My experience is, if you want a job and say you are a
returned trooper, it kills you, the usual answer being that
there are a lot of doubtful characters about.
And so on and so on. They are absent-minded
beggars, the stay-at-home patriots who sent other
men out farm-burning whilst they sold their
frozen meat and butter and got their titles. And
the social grade of the soldier is just as bad in
England : a last week’s cable tells that the English
authorities have had to threaten to withdraw the
licences of such theatres as refuse to admit men in
uniform.
* * • •
At Melb. Morgue hundreds rolled up
daily to view the formalin-pickled body of
murderer and suicide Shaw, and tell one another
what a hideous-looking ruffian he was. As a
matter of fact, Shaw’s features had no obvious
criminality about them. He was rather a good-
looking man, verging on the elderly ; and, if well-
dressed, would have struck one as being very like
a prosperous sharebroker. The post-mortem
shows that his brain was healthy ; and physiog-
nomists and surgeons alike are at a loss to account
for the desperate criminality of the man. He was
probably identical with Yates, old-time Vic.
criminal, who took part in the sensational Simp*
son’s-road Bank robbery of ’B4, only to turn
Queen’s evidence. One of his pals was young
“ Montgomery,” probably the most daring burglar
who ever drew breath in Australia, hanged at
Darlinghurst in ’95 for seriously injuring a police-
man who chased him after he and his mate Wil-
liams (hanged at the same time) had burgled the
Union s.s. Co.’s Bridge-street office. “ Mont-
gomery ” was a lad of 18 at the time of the
Simpson’s-road conviction, and it was his maiden
sentence. People who know the sort of man he
was, marvel that he did not kill Yates at first
opportunity.
The law in Australia apparently never per-
mits a post-mortem of the man who has been
hanged by legal sentence; it is feared that the
revelations of science would do too much to dis-
credit capital punishment. The law has an uneasy
feeling that three-fourths of the criminals it hangs
are maniacs, and does not want the question to
be put to absolute proof.
Tisler, hanged for the murder of Sangal, was,
without a doubt, nagged to the noose. From all
appearanoes he didn’t even “love” Mrs. Sangal
in anything but a perfunctory fashion. She, how-
ever, “ loved ” him with a red-hot, volcanic love,
and once he had drifted into intimacy he had to
play the game to what she considered its logical
conclusion —the death of Sangal. Tisler was a
somewhat soft and easy-going German, and when
he fell a victim to Mrs. Sangal’s love he had no
more control of his own life or actions than a
mouse in the mouth of a cat. Having been
nagged into murder, he was just as easily nagged
into fervent religion by a benevolent olergyman.
• * * •
Some persons have a mania for identifying
that is worse than a disease ; to gain a little tem-
Eorary notoriety they would identify a bull-ant
y its footstep, and swear to it. Suoh a one made
it her business to drop in at Melb. morgue lately
and view the head and feet of murderer Shaw,
whom she identified as her long-lost brother,
whom she hadn’t seen for 24 years 1 She “remem-
bered him by his mouth, nose and moustache.”
The lady gave interesting particulars about his
early days and his family. She would have given
a complete history and pedigree of the whole out-
fit, but the detectives hurriedly choked her off.
They wanted the man’s identity fixed, but a lady
who rushed up to recognise at a glance a notorious
criminal as her long-lost brother, whom she hadn’t
seen for 84 years, struck them as altogether too
anxious for publicity. And that is at the bottom
of a good many “identifications.”
» • 9 *
Admiral Beaumont was granted an escort
and a military guard of honor when he visited
Adelaide, and then it was discovered that he was '
not entitled to either of them. However, as the
soldiers were paid for their extra services, they
did not mind the blunder of their superior
officers.
* * * »
In connection with the unvarying lump-
sum-allowance of £BOO to Yic. Judges for travel-
ling expenses, recently debated in Parliament, it
has been whispered in Gath that the desire to
broaden the margin between the allowance and
the actual expenditure has frequently been a not
inconsiderable factor in hurrying through assize
business by means of midnight sittings. It is by
no means unlikely that the Book of Life may
contain such entries as this : “John Jones —
hanged because Mr. Justice Blanky Hurry desired
to catch the early morning express and pocket a
day’s hotel expenses.”
• * *
Adelaide is breathlessly discussing the
details of a divorce suit which will be before the
Court early in November. Petitioner is a humble
civil servant, and co-respondent a financier high
up in society. A principal witness suddenly dis-
appeared a few weeks ago, and all efforts to settle
the case have so far failed. Another suit, in which
the lady is very well known in “select” society,
was suddenly settled the other day by the death
of the petitioner.
* * • *
A larger proportion of the population is
Hebrew in Westralia than in any other State.
Where the shindy kit is there will the Tribes be
gathered together.
A LITERAL TRANSLATION.
At Temora (N.S.W.), t’other day, was
witnessed the unusualspectacle of a real cremation,
the subject being the body of Goodyer Singh, an
Indian hawker who had died in the local hospital.
Some of his compatriots made a pile of logs in the
scrub, and the body was slowly charred for a few
hours, what then remained being placed in a box
for shipment to India. The primitive nature of
the crematorium made the spectacle a most
revolting one, on which, nevertheless, about a
score of Australian shemales feasted their eyes for
a couple of hours —though even the Hindus
themselves cleared out during the process.
* • * 9
S.A. Cremation Society, after having a
speoial Act unused for some years, has at last
started to build its furnace. Its financial methods
are evidently borrowed from the State, for sub-
scribers of 10 guineas are “entitled to have one
cremation effected” without charge. This reads
oddly enough, but its meaning is evident. The
cash now received goes in building, and the
society will, for years to come, have to conduct
most of its operations without getting anything
for them. Float a loan now to pay for anything
you desire, and let the vague Future see to redeem-
ing it!
• • * •
Judge Williams, lecturing at Bendigo on
Education and the wisest ways of diffusing it,
recommended the study of astronomy as a cure
for Australian “ irreverence and disrespect.”
At the Salvation Army farm, near
Manly, Sydney, the workers are paid from
2s. to 4s. a week, and tucker. The farm
manager gets £3 a week. Moral: “Go on the
land, young man”—as a S.A. farm-manager.
Nearly as good as going in the Lands.
* * * *
The partially-paid and partially-clad
forces—the Scottish Rifles.
* » * •
“ The scattered location of the Common-
wealth Agents-General,” writes The Bulletin’s
London correspondent, “will be intensified by the
removal of Victoria from Westminster to the City.
At present W.A., Tas.. Q., Vic., and N.S.W. are
in Victoria-street, Westminster, far from business
circles—about two miles from the Bank of
England. S.A. is in the City a mile further on
from the Bank. Before Christmas Vic. saves
£650 a year by consolidating its mining, agricul-
tural, and agency centres into one building in
Queen Victoria-street. It only needs N.S.W. to
go to Hampstead, Q. to Kew, Tas. to the ‘ Ele-
phant and Castle,’and W.A. to the ‘Angel’ to
thoroughly disseminate the offices over the whole
metropolitan area. It is screamingly laughable—
but, nevertheless, a condemned nuisance”.
In S. Australia, a few years ago, a young-
ster “got vaccinated ” just as he got measles and
the snuffles —as a matter of course. In 1892 there
were over 90 vaccinations per 100 births. By last
year the percentage had dropped to 47- Change
of sentiment has, no doubt, saved some youngsters;
but it seems likely that the mothers’ tiredness has
saved more.
• • * *
A criminological episode :
The head of a prisoner at Melb. Sessions lately was a
lesson in criminology to those who have learnt the
language. The upper part seemed to have been com-
Eressed during growth, just as if a tight skull-cap had
een fitted on during babyhood and kept there till man-
hood. With his hat on the prisoner looked quite normal—
in fact, rather a desirable acquaintance, but,
bareheaded, the abnormal shape of the skull
suggested a new kind of lunatic. He was con-
victed of housebreaking—a calm, casual sort
of housebreak as if he didn’t care tuppence
whether anyone saw him or not; also he owned
up to 10 previous convictions in 20 years.
These sentences were, of course, read out in
court, and the remarkable head was noticeable
to all who cared to look, yet despite that and the
futility of previous sentences, the Law, per
Judge' Johnston, after lecturing him on his
stupid neglect to gain a good position in society,
put him away for three years more. A
wiser judge might have seen the
idiocy of lecturing a man with a head
made in two sizes—the top half being
a No. 3 while the lower half was a No.
6. There was the curiosity glaring at
him—something after the manner of
half a cricket ball joined on to half a
football in a vain effort to make one symmetrical ball out
of the combination—yet even that wasn’t sufficient for
Judge Johnston. If a prisoner died in the dock, a
judge like that would admonish the body from wooden
force of habit, just as he would speak severely to a
stone-deaf man, or a lunatic, or a three months’ old
infant charged with having no visible remunerative occu-
pation.
■•* * •
Melbourne University seems in almost
hopeless financial straits. Sydney University is
more prosperous because it lias received much
more generous aid from the taxpayer ; but were it
stripped of Govt. subsidies and compelled to erect
its own buildings, instead of being able to come
to the public purse for their cost, its condition
would also be desperate. And, as it is more than
likely that, when the borrowing boom bursts, the
State will simply have to shear off some of its luxu-
ries, Sydney Uni. roosts on the edge of disaster.
Trouble with both the big Australian institutions,
and more particularly with the Sydney one, is
that far more money has been spent on buildings
than the state of the country warrants. Uni-
versity Senates have been governed by a muni-
cipal-council frame of mind—that state of thought
which regards a big building as the one certain
sign of greatness.
* • • •
One public scandal which the Minister for
Justice and Attorney-General in N.S.W. should
promptly abolish is the frowsy and often obscene
jocoseness which so often marks the proceedings of
the Police Courts. Stipendiary magistrates tolerate
in solicitors and witnesses, and occasionally them-
selves join in, this ghastly “humor.” The “lowest”
of courts shouldn’t be low in its conduct of business;
A COOMMODATING.
SONNY: “ Reverend Mr. Holy more is in the draw-
ing-room and wants to see you. I said you
weren’t dressed .”
MOTHER : “ Well? ”
SONNY : “ Sends his compliments and wants to see
you , anyhow .”
every offender has a right to be judged decently
and decorously, as well as justly. Perhaps the
best remedy would be in a new class of magis-
trate, chosen as the District Court Judges are.
Some of the Sydney stipendiary magistrates are
fairly well-fitted for their duties; but there is,
generally speaking, a low tone about all the
Police Courts. The Minister for Justice could
force some reform by stringent censures on
magisterial buffoonery.
Now, the casual young man,
Oaring naught for Nature’s plan,
Disrespectful to religion,
And addicted to cigars,
May be led to ways polite
By instruction in the Light
Of the airy vaulted region
Of innumerable stars.
If he’ll only fix an eye
On the wonders of the sky,
He will realise the folly
Of his previous contempt
For the things he didn’t know
In this sordid world below,
And reflect with melancholy
On the dreams he never dreamt.
He will take in Faith and Hope
Through the tricky telescope ;
His words will not be babbled,
To the Hebes at the bars.
And his soul he’ll want to save
For a life beyond the grave,
When his intellect has dabbled
In the science of the stars.


Wild’s, in the Sydney Arcade, is the most
fashionable gentlemen’s hairdressing saloon in
Sydney. Every attention possible is paid to the
customers by six expert hairdressers. Address. —
30 Sydney Arcade, entrance from George-street
or King-street, Sydney.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.
Ladies recommend Martin’s Apiol and
Steel Pills. All chemists sell them throughout
Australasia. Agents for N. S. Wales: Sayers,
Allport and Potter, Sydney. Sole proprietor, W.
Martin, pharmaceutical chemist, Southampton,
England.*
SILVER
STAR
STARCH
THE
BEST
IN
THE
WORLD
Pi
9 a
There is a difficulty in N.S.W. in getting
doctors for the insane asylums. The pay
offered is inadequate for the work, and medi-
cal officers are forced to attend to
so many administrative duties that
their opportunities for the study of
mental aberration are not so good
as they might be. Nevertheless,
the N.S.W. system can boast a
gratifying recovery rate.
» * * *
Hobart Museum was lately
presented with an ancient man-
trap. The diabolical contrivance
had been in a city store for many
years, but as there is no sale for
such toys nowadays the article be-
came dead stock, and only of curio,
value. A bit of the published des
cription:—
When the trap is sprung, the
jaws close suddenly with a
loud crash. Any person un-
fortunate enough to be caught
would stand but a poor chance
of ever being able to walk
again ; for the powerful springs
impart to the jaws sufficient
force to make their sharply-
pointed teeth meet in a man’s leg.
An ungallant brute remarks that
the most effective man-traps in
use in Hobart nowadays also
have teeth, often removable. But
they bite a man in the marriage-
oertificate—not in the leg.
“Casa B.”: Be “ Proo-
shan” on teacheresses and marriage
(8., 27/9/’O2) :
Certainly some girl-teachers marry, but
a lamentable majority do not and
speedily develop all the charac-
teristics of tough spinsterhood.
At Xmas or Easter, when the
school-marms are abroad, they
can be easily picked out from
other passengers. A uniform
facial expression marks them
as plainly as a helmet does a
policeman. Of a number of girl
schoolmates, those who take to
the chalk and duster trade will, in a
few years, show a bigger percentage of
unappropriated blessings than those in any other pro-
fession, more especially since women are compelled to
resign from the Education Department on marriage.
» * * *
“ A.C.H.” writes corroborating “Sprat”
(8., 30/8/02) re the infrequency of women-teachers’
marriages:—
Fewer marriages take place among them as a class than
with any other wage-earning body. Reason—not lack of
charms, but lack of opportunity of displaying them. The
first six or seven years of teaching mean close application
to study ; and whereas shop-girls, typist-damsels, &c.,
are constantly seeing and being seen, the teacher re-
mains pretty well from 8.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. in one room,
and when she goes home is too fagged to notice a man
from a monkey. After about seven years of teaching, the
vitiated class-room air kills all complexion in a woman,
while the constant talking and nagging harden her lips
into two unlovely lines. So, when exams, are done and
she has leisure to look round for a husband, her feminine
charms have mostly departed. Another notable point is
the rareness of marriage between male and female
teachers; and it may be added that the best women
teachers (always the worst scholars and, incidentally,
the most attractive), failing mostly to pass the exams.,
retire early from the ranks and get married. I have often
thought it would pay theP.l. Dept, (from a humanitarian
point of view) to ascertain who are the best teachers, and
keep them on instead of letting them drop out through
exam, failures. It is the magnetic alive women who can
teach— though they can’t “cram” enough to get through
their own tasks—while the soulless she-pedant conies out
on top and is valued accordingly by a wooden-headed
Department.
« * • *
Something new in pastoral staffs, pre-
sented to Anglican Bishop Riley at Kalgoorlie :
Of polished sandalwood, ringed here and there with
silver. The crook is of the same metal, studded, back and
front, with gold specimens. The small cross within the
curve is also of silver, the centre stuck with a handsome
nugget. Wood, minerals, and fashioning are local pro-
ductions.
There’s an idea in this to make your bishop a
travelling museum and bureau of information for
his district. For instance: —
For his Lordship of Tasmania : Of varnished Huon
pine, ringed with silver and tin. The crook of copper.
The small cross within the crook of gold, with an apple
in the centre.
For his Lordship of (say) Riverina : Of mulga, ringed
with silver. The crook a ram’s horn (for preference, a
starved ram). The cross of blasted hopes, with a White
Cliffs opal in the centre, if they’ll carry it.
Note that the centre of the Westralian bishop’s
cross is “ stuck with a handsome nugget.” Pre-
sumably the church-people know what is the right
thing to nowadays pin to a bishop’s cross, which is
the symbol of his faith ; but if the matter had been
left to The Bulletin it wouldn’t have made such
a nasty suggestion as that.
* * ♦ •
Quaint little item from a Sydney paper :
The Bishop of Goulburn is decidedly averse to taking
things for granted. He regards the practice as a bad and
an unwise one, and warns all and sundry off it. Speaking
at the Diocesan Festival last night he gave instances of
how persons who had relied on things turning out all
right had been sadly disappointed. “We had,’‘he pointed
out, “ a striking instance just recently in the political life
of N.S. Wales, When a year or two ago this State
responded to her Federal sweethearts and Federal wooers
and yielded up a right largely her own on the under-
standing that she was to be provided with, as a marriage
dowry, a Federal city and a Federal home, she took it for
granted that she would get them —and what has been the
result? you know what has happened. The State has
been left in the lurch, and I am not sure that she might
not yet be driven into a breach of promise case if not into
a divorce action —just all because she took it for granted.’
The Federal Parliament has been sitting about
17 months, and-hasn’t built a new capital in that
time, so the Bishop of Goulburn says N.S. W. is
“left in the lurch” and talks secession. And the
Bishop’s Church has been promising the millennium
and other things for nearly 1900 years, and still
expects the community, which has been left in the
lurch for 19 centuries, to have faith in it. It
even expects us to take for granted, after all these
years of drought, that it can bring down rain by
prayer. When a stupendous confidence-trick like
that talks of anyone leaving people in the lurch
it deserves a big leather medal.
* * * •
Owing to the reduction of endowment on
Queensland hospitals, numbers of the country
institutions will have to close. This means that
the doctor in the Q. country town will be com-
pelled to leave, as the hospital salary is the main
part of his income. And the departure of the
doctor means that any poor bushman who meets
with an accident will have to be dragged, in some
cases, over 100 miles to get medical assistance.
Twenty-two aborigines signed a petition
against the opening of a public-house near their
station at La Perouse (Syd-
ney). The petition should
be, from a social and moral
point of view, quite as in-
fluential as most petitions
readied up by antj-groggites.
At the same time, it is wise to
keep grog a good distance from
where black brudders sit
down.
OVERHEARD NEAR THE ZOO.
“Nuts for the monkeys, sir?”
(From Phil May's “ Summer Ammal.")
S. Australia (writes a Bulletin corres-
pondent) is being made to suffer because of its
expressed indignation re the military extrava-
gance of the Commonwealth. The totally inade-
quate reduction scheme is inflicted on the
officers and men who have long done duty
in that State, while, at the same time, the
expense of the staff, consisting almost entirely
of favored individuals from beyond the border,
has been largely increased. The natural
result is seen in the attenuated companies which
face the instructors week by week.
• • » *
Yic. Artists’ Society has abolished its
dummy “Academicians” and “Associates,” and
has reverted to its old position. Thus every man
starts off the same mark, and the competitors are
not also sole judges and referees. The attempt to
follow the traditions of the English R. A. was a
ridiculous piece of Toryism—doomed to failure
from the first. But at one time it seemed that
the artists would have difficulty in removing the
obstacles they had themselves erected, for the
privileged ones were very hard to shift.
V * • •
“Hermes ” concerning a lady of muscle :
The tram pulled up at Park-street and a wet, draggled,
bad-tempered crowd of people in evening dress swarmed
into the front car. They had been to hear Melba. There
were dresses of pink chiffon, soaked, sopping, and hang-
ing like freshly-dyed dishcloths. The only unruffled
person in the whole car was a stout, well-preserved
dowager, and she spread her beautiful glossy silk skirt
all around and looked at the wet and sodden confections
beside her with a smile of amusement. The rails were
wet, the stoppings were sudden and jerky, and the con-
ductor was new and hadn’t acquired his car legs. Also
his boots were muddy, as though he had encountered
heavy weather on his way to duty. The car gave a ter-
rific lurch, and then stopped. The conductor swayed,
clawed the air wildly, gripped a woman’s back-hair, and
then recovered his balance, standing on the dowager’s
beautiful silk skirt. The lady choked with indignation
and, unable to speak, prodded the conductor with a
neatly-gloved fist. The conductor stood off the silk.
Next stopping more people got in and sat down beside
the silk dress and looked at it admiringly, and as the
conductor gave them their tickets he once more stood on
that dress. That time the dowager made wild threats,
and the conductor answered her softly: “Beg pardon,
lydy ; road’s orfully jerky ter-night, lydy; can’t help it.”
After that he carefully swung himself along by the
straps and gave the skirt as wide a berth as possible.
The car was bowling along at a great rate. Suddenly there
was a jumble of noises, made up of women’s screams,
loud clangings of the bell, and shouts of “ loork out,
loork out! ” The tram stopped suddenly, and the muddy
conductor, quite unprepared, careered wildly down the
passage and trampled heavily on the dowager’s dress.
Something went crack, and it sounded like silk tearing.
The conductor swayed off the skirt, and as he did so
that bejewelled, well-preserved matron arose in her
wrath, and hit straight out with her right. It caught
the conductor under the jaw, and he spun round and
shot back towards the other end of the car amid a storm
of exclamations. Then the lady sat down with an air of
relief, and gathered her skirt up over her knees, and
showed an underskirt that was a dream, and shoes, and
well-filled hose that had a look of solid domestic comfort
about them. The car rumbled on, and for the rest of the
journey it was worth 10s. 6d. to see the way that con-
ductor navigated round Juno and stood on the dress no
more.
* * • . *
A correspondent:
After all, the present scarcity and costliness of meat in
N.S. W., may possibly be the best thing that ever struck the
State. People might now turn their attention to the
fish, with which our waters abound ; and adopt up-to-date
methods of catching and canning them. At Lake Mac-
quarie, recently, I saw a small boy in a few minutes haul
in 10 large salmon—72lb. of good food. Shoals of this
fish, shark-chased, swarm into the lake almost daily now,
and men go out in boats and waddj r them wholesale.
Have seen a boat filled in a very short time. Good eating,
too, though epicures consider them coarse and flavorless.
Bleed the fish at the tail, boil 20min., and you’ll find it
will go well with parsley sauce. Anyhow, it’s poor fish
that isn’t preferable to the poverty-stricken, leathery
meat put on the market nowadays.
* * * *
A recent Govt, official examination of the
cans in which milk and cream are brought to
Melbourne disclosed a disgusting state of affairs.
Nearly all the tins were dirty ; and many were
rusty. Some people squeezed filthy rags into the
can-lids in order to make them fit; old socks were
among the rags used for this purpose.
“ The aerial postman is being considered
by the G.P.0.,” writes Thk Bulletin’s London
correspondent. “He is the invention of Taeggi, an
Italian, whose country and England are seriously
testing the reliability and capacity of the automa-
ton. Roughly, poles and lines are required, and
along the latter run aluminium boxes motor-
driven by electricity. The poles act as letter-
boxes, in which, when a missive is deposited, it is
postmarked automatically, the stamp defaced,
carried to the top of the pole, and passed in to the
aluminium carrier. The carriers are borne to a
central office, where they empty their contents
and return to duty. There are many other won-
derful deeds done by the aerial postman, who
doesn’t ‘ sneak ’ letters, or delay their delivery.”
* « * *
Sydney has had another police-cell
tragedy. An obstreperous drunk, who had been
dragged to the cells after a severe struggle, was
found dead with a fractured skull, how or when
caused there was no evidence to _ show. The
coroner’s jury returned an open verdict. The affair
shows the folly of requiring a policeman to secure a
violent drunk, who may be as strong as, or
stronger than, himself. One of the two is bound
to get hurt sometimes. The remedy is to provide
that assistance shall always be within call of every
constable’s beat, and stretchers available with
straps to secure rowdy prisoners. The frequent
spectacle of a rough-and-tumble fight in the streets
between a policeman and a drunken woman is in-
expressiblv disgusting.
A man was charged in Adelaide last week
with cutting his own arm with a knife, but
Gordon, P. M., promptly ruled that it was not an
offence known to the law. There seemed to be
no evidence to justify the charge of attempted
suicide, and tattooing or other self-mutilation
apparently goes free.
THE CHECK ON
ENTHUSIASM.
TRUSTFUL GENTILE : “ I reckon it's a certainty for
the colt. What’s to stop him from winning?"
UNBEIVING JEW: “ Well, the jockey might have
a try.”
The S.A. earthquake has now added a
lunacy case to the two deaths for which it was
directly responsible. He was, of course, mentally
shaky, as they were physically, and the ’quake
just pushed him over the edge. Another tragedy
is not unlikely to follow. One nervous individual,
who was desperately upset, has since been much
tormented by kerosene-tin and other rumblings,
arranged by practical jokers who know his weak-
ness, and he writes to the papers that he proposes
to shoot at sight any fools who play at being
Outraged Nature in his vicinity.
* • • •
In a recent Redfern (Sydney) assault case
the lady declared that the elderly gentleman (an
auctioneer, agent, and J.P.) who called for the
rent kissed her without her consent. He said he
didn’t, and as there was no corroborative testi-
mony on either side, it looked like a deadlock.
Nevertheless the court fined defendant £2. In
the absence of evidence, that plainly meant either
that a J.P. was likely to do such things, or that
plaintiff was the sort of woman that any man,
J.P. or otherwise, would naturally want to kiss,
It is a matter of little importance, still it was a
pity that the bench didn’t explain which view it
took.
* • * *
Premier See informed Mr. Kelly, M.L. A.,
last week, that both the Public Works Committee
and the Govt. Architect had condemned as unsafe
the George-street Asylum, Parramatta, where 798
old men are confined. He added that nothing can
be done “until the recommendations of the Works
Committee are passed by Parliament, or some
other scheme devised.” The Premier did not
mention that the old, ramshackle Asylum was
condemned years ago, and is notoriously a stand-
ing menace to the lives of hundreds of helpless
old men. Nor did he express his opinion as to
what would happen to a private individual who
kept on using his premises for months after they
had been condemned, even if he simply housed
goods in them, let alone hundreds of his helpless
fellow-creatures.
* * • •
Some men have strangely inopportune
habits and ideas. For instance, a NS.. W. man who
was tired of life recently locked the door on his
wife, who was out on an errand, then sharpened the
knife carefully and waited. When he heard her
knock he cut his throat vigorously and opened the
door. The daily newspaper report goes out of its
way to state that she was shocked to see him with
his head nearly cut off and hanging by a thread,
so to speak. The daily press is always saying
superfluous things like that.
* • * *
The Bulletin’s London correspondent: —
Convicted on the strength of mere finger-imprints only,
a burglar has just been sentenced to seven years’ impri-
sonment. It is the first time such evidence has been
accepted here as absolutely damnatory. The theory of
the palm or finger imprints is that no two humans have
the identically same convolutions and lozenge markings.
Therefore, when a criminal leaves a thumb print behind
an imprint is taken of any arrested suspect. Both are
prepared as magic-lantern slides and put in parallel in the
focus. If the markings correspond identically, the suspect
is considered guilty.
« * • *
A Bulletin correspondent tells of a
railway-adventure :
I had the carriage to myself, but just
as the train was moving, a young lady,
very white and breathing hard, jumped
in. “ Does this train go to Burnley (” she
gasped. I said yes. “ I thought it did,
but I had no time to ask,” she said.
“My word, I am puffed. I was right
down the end of the station when the
whistle went, and I did run. I’ve got
a first-class ticket, but I’d get in any-
where rather than miss the train,
wouldn’t you? And I can easily
change at the next station. Not
that I mind much, because the
second-class carriages are good
on this line ; but one’s friends
talk so much if they see you
riding second, don’t they?
So silly, I think.” Taking
breath she went on. “ I’ve
got such a pain in my left
side. I had it this morning
when I woke up, and it’s
been with me all day. I
think it must be caused by
sleeping on my left side last
night—a thing I never do as
a rule, as the doctors say it
interferes with the action of
the heart, but I woke that
way this morning. I have
a sister who always sleeps
with her head under the
clothes. I couldn’t do that,
I’d smother wouldn’t
you ? I like to lie on
my left side for awhile,
and then turn over
on my right and go
to sleep ; but I must
have fallen asleep on
my left last night.
It’s such a horrid
pain, catches me
when I take a long
breath. I hope my
heart is not affected ;
but I know plenty of
people who sleep on
their left side and
feel no bad effects.
So the doctors are
not always right, are
they ? Why, the
lady I am going to
visit alwa3's sleeps on
her left side, and
she’s as well as you or
I. Such a sound sleeper
you never saw, and it’s
strange that it should
affect me after once only.
And a gentleman I know
sleeps ” But we were at
Richmond now, and as she
didn’t make any movement
to change carriages I did. A
man is still judged by the
company he gets out of.
TEMPTED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]]
I feared the wrath they called Divine ;
I feared the world, so hard and gray ;
I did not fear his heart or mine :
“ I love him. He will be my stay ! ”
The Sinai thunders never stirred,
Naught heard the world, so calm, so wide,
God whom I served not spoke no word ;
Man whom I served has turned aside l
The lips still kiss ; the arms still fold—
The soul that loved has judged and weighed.
There comes a whisper, keen and cold :
“ This god loves best when disobeyed ! ”
CONSTANCE CLYDE.


Dress Fabrics
Are Stocked bv the
Leading Drapers.
THE VARNISHED BOARD
A SET OF TEETH ONE GUINEA
Beautiful and Lifelike in Appearance and Guaranteed Perfect Fit. Absolutely Painless
Extractions and Stoppings Guaranteed.
Special Attention Given to Regulating Children’s Teeth;
Mr. J. SPENCER NOLAN, R.D.S., Surgeon Dentist, 43 Oxford-st. Sydney
Sold by all Drapers and Hosiers.
KNEIPP LINEN
UNDERWEAR
Porous. Cool. Clean. Unshrinkable
Recommended by Medical Profession.
Prevents Prickly Heat, Eczema,
Allows the Body to Breathe.
A graceful form and well-moulded bust
are essential to perfect beauty. Lactd, the
wonderful “Skin Food” is nature’s remedy for
giving back those essentials when lost through
sickness or action of time, and for supplying them
when constitutionally deficient. It fills all hollows,
develops and gives a charming roundness to neck
and arms. Price 7s. 6d. per jar, post Bs. 3d.
Westall Guest, Toilet Specialist, 229 Bourke-st.
Melbourne. Wholesale, Elliott Bros., Sydney.*
c
°
* \
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
' , Sydney, Ootober 28, 1902.
My Dear Arini.—
‘‘Good-bye forever, good-bye, good-bye,” were
the last words Melba sang at a Sydney audience,
but she didn’t mean ’em—they were Tosti’s, and
Melba will give us a week of opera in December
The rushing of the Town Hall on the last night of
Madame’s concert, by a horde of persons who had
no tickets, who didn’t pay at the door, and who
•bviously hadn’t any more beer-money to spend
•utside, let alone five shillings for classical music
within, was a great sight. Also, it delayed Arens’
opening song till 8.30. Up behind the Governor,
society, critics, and other dead-heads in the guinea
seats wandered the kind of men, women and girls
vou may see pour out of the Water Police Court at
lunch time. One man, a real Domainer, carried a
disreputable fox terrier against his shirtless bosom
and with ashamefaced, angry defiance, looked about
for some means of escape ; but there was none—
every exit was densely blocked with chairs and an
army of standers, so he subsided on to the floor,
either kneeling or sitting. If some humorist had
let go the double-contra-posaune on the big organ,
and brought down fragments of plaster and
stained-glass window, or done something else to
cause a stampede, Sydney would have been a week
burying its dead.
In addition to trying Miss Mylott’s contralto
and one or two other voices, Madame has, by
request of Lady Rawson, hearkened critically in
private to that of Miss Nora Long, a young
Maorilander, who first appeared with Newbury
at the Centenary Hall, and got considerable
encouragement in the way of applause and
criticism. Melba’s opinion is highly favorable,
and she will arm the tall, slender lyric soprano
with a letter to Marchesi. Miss Long is going to
sing her way through M.L., in order to raise funds
to present that letter and do the necessary study.
As a preliminary, however, she and Miss Mylott
will tour the N.S.W. Northern River district.
The season has been good up there, and the two
songstresses hope to take the proceeds of the sale
of the giant pumpkin.
Dressmakers say that there will not be much
shine about the Cup of 1902, and dressmakers
are a fairly good society barometer. The State
Governor and family leave for Melbourne this
week. They are among the few persons to whom
the Cup, as a. spectacle, is not a sucked orange.
Miss Rawson is more anxious to get to her Moss
Vale home than to go Cupping. At Moss
Vale she may ride—riding is her favorite pastime—
on miles of fairly level turf. Here she has only
the South Head Road, “the ’ard, ’igh road ”of
which her steeds are weary. Whilst his Ex. is
absent Mr. Justice Stephen will do the “Acting.”
Melba and her gowns will be rival attractions to
the Cup favorite. When Madame returns here in
December for her Opera week she will stay with
the Rawsons at Cranbrook. That’s just the luck
of those persons who can well afford to pay for
their board and lodging.
General opinion last week about Mdlle. Dolores’
visit was that she was coming at a bad time.
“ Melba had taken all the money for music out of
the place.” “ The slump would be so great that
everyone would Ml tone-deaf, &c.” Well, Dolores
dimpled before an audience of 4000, the number
which the hall is supposed to seat. She got a
most magnificent welcome, and for nigh 10
minutes her round head, with its plainly parted
hair, was bent in emotion before the one-woman
concert was allowed to proceed. Most Australians
have heard Dolores’ beautiful voice—if only she
had Melba’s taste in dress ! On Saturday she wore
something that looked like a cataract of slender
bamboos depending from her neck to the hem of a
gown that didn’t suit her, and posied here and
there with pink roses.
In future it will be the price of the man’s hat,
not the woman’s, which will bring suitors to the
bankruptcy court. An Englishman has just paid
£lOO for a Panama of so fine a texture that be can
put it through a ring, and Panama hats priced at
£lO a,re now on view in Sydney shop windows.
Talking of hats, I recall a memory of two at the
Mayoress’ reception to Melba. One was a very
sunburnt straw, the brim of which rose bigh and
sharply off its wearer’s face; on top of its precipi-
tous ascent were erect, quivering stems of barley,
ripe and unripe. It was really Swinburne’s line
“Up on the yellow cliff the long corn quivers and
shakes” in hat-form. Another lid was made of
five rows of wire, curving upwards, with white
and pink sweet-pea climbing in and out as it does
over a verandah trellis.
There’s a bit of pathos about “Sherlock
Holmes ” that narrowly escapes bathos, all
because there is something in a name. “Won’t
you step into the drawing-room and see Mrs.
Watson?” says Dr. Watson, and the detective
with the martyr’s face, stands at the door as if
arrested by the significance at the back of the
words, and in low despairing tones soliloquises:
“‘Mrs. Watson, ’ love, life, home!” then exits
with trembling lip. Watson is a perilous name
to use under such conditions. But Jobson (as
good a name as Watson, one would think) would
be quite hopeless. “ Mrs. Jobson, love, life,
home! ” How the audience would yell!
By the way, the circumstantial evidence on
which the detective acts recalls Thoreau’s epigram:
“Some circumstantial evidence is so very conclu-
sive, as, for instance, when you find a trout in the
milk.”
A weird case of theft was related to me lately
by a young woman from a near State, whose
mother had died. The daughter placed a porcelain
wreath with green leaves on the grave, and a few
days later it was missing. The daughter had a
Sunday-school class, and at next assembly there
came a new girl wearing an old toreador straw,
trimmed with porcelain leaves and flowers that
the Sunday-school teacher had last seen on ber
mother’s grave. The girl lived in the neighbor-
hood of the cemetery, and when taxed with the
theft, said, “Thelydy couldn’t make any use of
it, as she was dead, and me other trim min’s was
wore out.” Concerning the robbing of cemeteries,
I see that what Christie Murray called that
unbroken hell called Broken Hill ” has brought
several women before the local J’s.P. for stealing
flowers, ornaments and plants from graves. As a
feminine vice this robbing of graves is almost as
original a sin as the stealing of apples.
Mr. Pharazyn, the Maorilander who has just
celebrated his 100th birthday, is a rich man,
though he has made over considerable of his
property to his numerous heirs. He is quaintly
economical. Some years ago he lost a pair of
spectacles, and, instead of putting an advt. of his
loss in the local paper, he pinned it on to his back
and so took his walks abroad. The centenarian,
who is bent nearly double, says he is rather tired
.' ls accumulated years. Sandow ought to get
hold of him as a pupil, for Sandow has pupils only
~) years younger in his London schools. One
tor whom Sandowism has done great things
t? m Xfa H .®^ on °f a surplus is Minister
VS O Sullivan, who now looks a rather
tnn twin of what he was. Of course, he went
the whole Sandow, baths, dieting, &c., as well as
lunch tle of Hercules in place of eating
Sydney’s first Dental Hospital has had, or is
going to have, a chance of making a “ tem-
peramcnt ” set of teeth. What the advts. call
ah. and p. maid,” who has few teeth and those
few not worth keeping, took a copy of an English
penny weekly to her mistress, and in an illus-
trated article on teeth pointed out the kind of
masticators and biters she would ask the dentist
to make for her. “I’ll have the two top front
teeth broader than the others, because the article
says that that kind means that ’you are literary
and thoughtful, and I’ll get him to make my eye-
teeth sharp at the point, because that kind means
that you are faithful and affectionate, and I know
that I am that.” The dazed employer meekly
asked if there were no teeth that indicated a capa-
city to polish silver properly, or to rise in the morn-
ing without being called. She meant it for sar-
casm, but the h. and p. girl carefully scanned the
article and read aloud with great innocence,
. protruding upper teeth are one of the worst
signs, especially in a woman. They indicate a
disagreeable, spiteful and deceitful temperament.”
Then she paused a moment and said—“No, I
don’t see anything nasty, or about housework in
the article.” The mistress, whose upper ivories
are somewhat obtrusive, is wondering yet if the
innocence was assumed.
Poor little Ada Willoughby was a great sufferer.
When she first came out here under engagement
to Mr. J. C. Williamson she would dance and
sing in the most acute pain, and collapse in her
dressing-room directly after leaving the stage,
then pull herself together, and in the same acute
pain run back to take a recall or continue her part.
She married Mr. Sheldrick soon after the dissolu-
tion of her marriage with Mr. Willoughby of “ The
Wrong Mr. Wright” co. Ada died of heart
failure last week in Melbourne. She was to have
appeared at the Opera House next night.
A London correspondent writes: “ The wife
of a rich Australasian was, during her Coro-
nation stay in London, asked to dinner by
the Prince and Princess of Wales. Of course, she
accepted, but was in such a state of nervousness
that she said ‘No 1 ’ to every course, and her share
of the dinner was two glasses of water. But after
sitting in the seats of the mighty her modest
lodging-house became too paltry for her, and she
moved to a swell hotel, which, after a few days,
she left, because of an objection taken to her fry-
ing sausages in her bedroom.”
Result of local observation : plantigrade feet are
worn by bears and Americans.
A pretty waltz, “Paka,” by J. S. M'Cready,
to hand from Paling’s ; also the same firm’s piano
album, containing 22 very choice and fairly easy
excerpts.
A Brisbane correspondent writes :
“ Melba.has arrived, and the public discusses
with avidity every detail of her actions. Her
dress, her jewels, her attendants, the hamper
which awaited her pleasure at Wallangarra are
breathlessly discussed. Our vested rights in the
Queen of Song fill our hearts with gentle contempt
for the mere southerners who can only claim her
birth-place. Brisbane points with pride to the
little Presbyterian manse—now, by the way, in
course of demolition—where Nellie was married.
We supplied her with a husband, Mr. Armstrong, a
native of Mackay; and his best man, Mr. Adolf
Eeez, a leading local legal light; we can produce
a godchild who has travelled from Rockhampton
to be present at god-mamma’s triumphs ; we own
her school-mate, Miss Janet O’Connor, daughter
of an old Grammar-school mistress, and herself
teacher to the daughters of Premier Philp and
other political leaders. As a matter of fact, we
can produce every gradation from friend to foe,
except the woman who did Melba’s washing; and
that is a dead secret. Hotels and boarding-houses
are full, and the squattocracy, far and near, are
treating their women folk to a week in town and
Melba.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
‘ ‘ Interest in Madame de la Juveny and curiosity
anent Silver-king Worthington took many gossa-
mered women, unaccustomed to court proceedings,
to hear. the case last week. The widow stepped
lightly into the witness-box—no full-blown beauty,
no fashion-plate. There is none of the ‘ interest-
ing intrigue’ look about her small, neat, black-
garbed figure. With her little, worried, rather
sallow face, Madame looks an ordinary busi-
ness woman, one who has had her peck of
troubles, and is settled down and resigned to
existence, brightened by a banking account. Her
manner of giving evidence was deliberate. She
made a pause, as if counting 20 or invoking the
aid of a Rosicrucian, before each answer. This
gave a hesitating air to her evidence, but when
she obtained permission to relate something in
her. own fashion, she was precise, positive, pains-
taking, and business-like. Madame rigidly re-
frained from looking at the accused, whose
influence, she confessed, was terrible even behind
the spikes.
“Pastor Worthington was a fine study, taking
notes on his knee during the teasing cross exami-
nation. His head was picturesque and well-
poised. His silver locks were parted at the side
and brushed down silkily, sleekly. The big bald
face was very calm and peaceful. A high close collar,
a black parsonic tie, a buttoned-up coat, all sug-
gested reserve, secrecy, an effort at decorum. The
prosecutrix was not the only woman in Court who
had thought him divine. The dramatic, or per-
haps the melodramatic pose, of the man made the
dock seem a throne for him in the feminine eye.
“The warmest moment of the Worthington
trial was when counsel Gaunson, striking a tre-
mendous attitude of impressiveness, asked the
widow where the prisoner spent a recent Monday
night. There was a breathless wait. The witness
hung her head, plucked at the chenille fringe of
her ruffle, and made no reply. 4 Then you do not
wish to answer,’ said Gaunson, with a comprehen-
sive look round the Court. ‘No,’ she replied, and
the case proceeded. Gaunson has clever tricks of
cross-examining. In this case he played with his
witness, turned the laugh on her, confused her,
sarcastically and in a splendidly large fashion,
begged her ‘to pause and do herself justice,’ when
every moment increased doubt and confusion.
“Widow de la Juveny was a gentle witness.
All the bluff and bounce of the examining counsel
(Gaunson) did not sting her into a vexed retort.
Only once when the man of the law asked her if
this, and this, and this (all damaging to her
probity) were correct, she answered emphatically,
but not in the least hastily or hotly : ‘lt is a lie.’
The wigged one adopted an expression of very
pained and shocked surprise. Madame looked
uncomfortable; the growing silence of the legal
man’s pose pricked her politeness. *ltis an un-
truth,’ she corrected. ‘Ah ! ’ chuckled counsel
Gaunson, ‘that is nicer.’
“Snobs, who had snubbed Melba in her callow
youth, ran against a snag when they went to weep
on her be-diamonded bosom in the hour of her
full-fledged triumph. At a reception, held in the
Diva’s honor, a Toorakienne, who had never con-
descended to be decently civil to Nellie Mitchell
when they were school-girls together, elbowed
aside a group of ‘ nobodies ’ —genuine old mates of
the star’s —and exclaimed, gushingly, ‘Of course,
you remember X. Y. ? ’ Time had dealt cruelly
with the speaker, and Melba’s slow, searching
gaze seemed to dwell upon every detail, and she
said, ‘ You X. Y. ? Good Lord ! ’
‘‘Local smartest are rather relieved that at last
their pet tenor is to ‘bid them good-bye and go,’
for he, to tell the truth, has been on the minds of
his patronesses long enough. Ages ago, the breezy
wife of our then military commandant had a habit
of suddenly interrupting discussions as to social
jinks ahead by exclaiming abruptly: ‘ Look here,
girls, the minute we’ve got this spree safely
through I must turn to and see about sending little
What’s-his-name Home.’ Probably the curly-
headed warbler might be still suffering from post-
ponements had his fate depended upon the efforts
of mammas, but, fortunately for him, the girls in
Melbourne came to the rescue and worked up his
recent successful benefit. He has always ‘ had a
way ’ with the daughters of the mighty, towards
whom he comports himself with a sort of reveren-
tial adoration, languishing his ardent brown eyes
‘just as the lily looks up to the light.’
_ “Poor little Ada Willoughby, who died of heart
disease in a cab on her way to the hospital, was a
gentle little woman to meet in private life. There
was always something wistful in the big, brown
eyes, shining out of a small, pale face. A simple
white muslin frock and big, black hat added to
the quietness of the picture. When scribe last
met the sometime ‘French Maid,’ she wore a tiny
skull, suspended on a single string of pearls, and
talked constantly on a subject in keeping with the
ominous trinket. A fellow-mummer, in the last
stage of consumption, had come to Australia in
ignorance of the seriousness of his condition, and
Ada Willoughby had been deputed to take him
for a walk in the Fitzroy Gardens and tell him
how ill he really was, and let him down gently as
to his. chances of an engagement. One purple
patch in Miss Willoughby’s experience seemed to
be that she had ‘created’ the ‘French Maid ’ in
Australia before she hurried home to fulfil an en-
gagement, leaving the ‘Julie Bon-bon’ to Ada
Reeve.
“ Terribly sudden was the death of Mrs. Greene,
wife of the ex-Rail way Commissioner, on Caulfield
day. Her two girls were at the races, and Mrs.
Claude Macdonald (who was the eldest daughter)
was in town for the Cup junkets, when the ener-
getic matron became suddenly ill. She was dead
when her girls returned home from the races.
Mrs. Greene was the first Society woman to make
dressmaking recognised in Melbourne as one
of the ‘arts.’ She started her eldest daugh-
ter in the Art costuming business, and when
that one married a N.S.W. squatter the
two other daughters were initiated into the
paying concern. One, Miss Dove Green, was just
about to be married. Her mother had worked all
the lace for the wedding-gown.
‘ ‘ Charity balls have been distressing failures
this year. Strong committees, with the inevitable
Clarkes at the head of affairs, failed to draw the
expected crowds. Amateur theatricals, ping-
pong, and the thinning ranks of full-grown, male
partners are the reasons of the decline of the polka
fever. Matrons declared they were ‘off’hops with
aldermen and University students as partners;
and debutantes were fearful of launching their
untried affections into a sea where so few life-
buoys were afloat.
“The swing of the pendulum! Since women
barbers have been switched on with fair success at
some of the Collins-st. shops, an enterprising
bootmaker has started with a staff of naice male
assistants for his Woman’s Department. Girls
can now enjoy the pleasant sensation of lolling
back in an easy chair getting nice, soft boots
drawn on and off, the ankles rubbed, the instep
smoothed over by nice, soft men. The proprietor
of that kid store knows something of human
nature.
“ One man—one solitary male—turned up at the
fourth 4 Rippon Lea ’ musical shivoo of the season,
last Tuesday. This was Consul Bosschart, of the
Netherlands. He felt the full enormity of his
guilty manhood, and seemed to cling to the
vicinity of the waiters and two male musicians—
his only trousered brethren. The programme was
split into three parts, intervals being granted for
taking tea and the air on the grassy lawns.
The special view of the new children’s ward
in the Alfred Hospital, last Friday, showed the
picture friezes lately executed by a number of
local artists, princi pally by Hugh Patterson.
These friezes, fringing the two long walls of the
ward, are bright, familiar fairy-tale subjects
designed to catch the fancy of the youngsters.
Some of the artists have had frank and rude
criticisms from .the mouths of the babes. *Do
you like that nice lady.?’ asked one artist of a
wistful-eyed sufferer, pointing to a highly decora-
tive female mounted in peacock feathers. * That
ain’t a lady—that’s a hen.’ And the aggrieved
artist bowed his crested head.
“ In a certain musical academy one male student
—as big and as soft as an india-rubber doll —
looms up as the solitary thing in trousers, among
a legion of girls. They must love something, so
they lavish their affection on this large, soft
infant. It is * Hand me my manuscript, darling,’
and ‘You may have my tneory-book, dear,’ and
‘Are you going into Interpretation, duckie?*
And Tom laps it up.
“Youthful bridegrooms are the fashion of the
day. At one swagger hitching-up not long ago
the ’groom seemed to have just advanced from
Eton suits. Two other recent brides looked years
older than their newly-harnessed mates, and the
latest Melb. engagement provides a ridiculously
youthful example of a Benedict-elect.
“The summer neck fashions are worthy of
note. Dress-builders are giving them particular
study. The swan necks are built up to the very
lobe of the ear with whaleboned tulle and inser-
tion. The fat swallow neck, on the other hand, is
left quite uncovered. One matron at Caulfield Cup
showed a bare neck and ropes of pearl embedded
in the layers of fat.
“ Battalions of ex-pupils were sorry to read the
announcement of the death of their old dancing-
master, Mr. Lowe. The dead dancer came of a
dancing family, whose ancestral privilege it was
to teach the ‘ positions ’ and steps to the Royal
family. He himself, before he came to Australia,
had a finger in the pie in connection with the
tuition of the present King’s sisters, whom he
described as ‘just as heavy and stupid as other
girls.’ In Australia and Tasmania he taught the
Smartest for many a year, till his thorough methods
began to be discarded as ‘old-fashioned.’ Mr.
Lowe latterly lived in retirement as a professed
woman-hater. He never had been indulgent to
his girl pupils but, somehow, they were all
attached to him.
“A wealthy court-widower (No. 1 decree nisied)
spends much of his income giving gorgeous sprees
to very young and tender pullet-parties. He
prefers the society of the callow youth and the
unsophisticated girleen to that of more seasoned
and frisky people. He gave (it is a record) five
young peoples’ parties to ‘Holmes’ during the
season, and took his fun out in watching the
thrills, starts, and general rhapsodies of the
young things during the show.
“The Mayor and City Councillors are all turn-
ing out to a knot-tying this Wednesday (29th),
the happy parties being Miss Florrie, daughter of
ex-Mayor Strong, and Mr. Stuart Brunton,
youngest hope of the moneyed miller and M.L.C.,
Thomas Brunton. It is to be an imposing mar-
riage feast.
“The R.C. bazaar falls away from its past
profitable records. One of a colossal order failed
dismally a little while ago ; so two others about to
be launched will be postponed for a while.
“Mrs. George Chirnside has just suffered the
loss of an infant daughter.
“The Tennysons are forward with a Cup ball.
They will have a full house party for the Cup
junket. The Adelaide Ways are to put up at the
Glass House for the Carnival, so are the Ran-
furlys from Maoriland.
“ The Huttons, having no chicks of their own,
foster tenderly other folks’. At present, two
girls—Misses Duff and Norman—are housed at
the ‘Grange.’
“ A correspondent tells of an interesting meet-
ing with Tay Pay O’Connor. He ‘looks for-
ward’ (same old gag) to a canter through the
Commonwealth capitals, with a platform debut in
each. His dramatist wife originated in America,
but was courted in Ireland. It is a literary union
—a successful one.
“Bridesmaids should regulate the wearing of
their bridal turn-outs better than they do. At
the Caulfield Cup there was a simultaneous out-
burst of three golden-yellow frocks by sweet
majdens who had marched to the ‘Voice that
breathed o’er Eden ’ some time ago. The three
took up distant points of the compass and glared
for the whole of the meeting.
“The engagement of a popular musician to a
pupil of tender years is the topic of the hour.
There never was a masterly musician yet who was
not beloved of his pupils. Shrewd parents know
this and generally send chaperones with their
tootling daughters, but love often manages to
elude chaperonage.
“Two well-known girls have started a pere-
grinating manicure business. They start off in
the morning with Gladstone bags full of gear and
visit swagger friends professionally. Practice is
said to be large and lucrative.
“ The 4 flat ’ craze is spreading to others besides
artists, Bohemians, spinsters and such. Families
are flying from servant troubles to the flats that
top so many big city buildings. Take a tour of
the city streets in the west end about 8 o’clock,
and you’ll see the windows of the big office
buildings aglow with light, hear music float upon
the evening breeze, and note the faint scent of
flowers in the air. The windows at the top of
the fortress-like buildings are open ; mignonette
and other box-blossoms give life to the ledges. In
one Bourke-st. building a set of book-lovers herd
together in the top storey. In Flinders-lane
there is a corresponding drove of daubers. In a
Collins-st. building writing-hacks and teachers of
all kinds are domiciled in the same way.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


YOU NEED A TONIC.
This is just the season when you need a tonic to brace you up—and the best tonic is Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills.
Many think Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are purging Pills—like common pills. That’s a mistake.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills don’t purge—they’re tonic pills.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are absorbed gently into the system, toning the nerves and filling the veins with
new, pure, rich, red blood.
That’s why they cure all blood and nerve diseases—anaemia, indigestion, palpitation, neuralgia, skin
complaints.
That’s why they’ll give you new strength and energy now.
Better start taking them to-day—they’ll do you a world of good.
Cured in North Sydney. —“ I used to be a ruddy-complexioned, strong- man,” says Mr. E. McKay, of Rock
Lily, “ but I became weak and subject to fits of biliousness. I lost all appetite, and my skin was as pale as parchment.
Doctors said I was debilitated and dyspeptic. Learning of the virtues of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills in a case like my own, i
tried them. A few doses brightened me up. One box made a world of difference—two more boxes enriched my blood to
such an extent that I was able to digest my food properly and gain strength from it. Now I am sound, healthy and hardy,
and no amount of work can tire me. That’s the truthful record of the great blood-building and nerve-toning remedy in
my case.”
Sold by retailers and by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney, 2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d. post free.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
George Lambert, The Bulletin hears,
has left Paris and settled down to study in
London.
In George Darrell’s 51-lined welcome
poem to Melba the word “ she ” occurs 24 times
and “ her ” 20 times.
N.S.VV. has now but one District Court
pensioner, receiving £750, and one Supreme Court
pensioner, drawing £lB2O.
Governor Denison was the first direct
advocate for the construction of a bridge to North
Sydney. He contemplated running a wooden
railway across the bridge.
Of “Banjo” Paterson’s “Man from
Snowy River” 25,000 copies have been sold to
date, at five shillings. In a few weeks Messrs.
Angus and Robertson will issue a new book of
“Banjo” verses.
One of General Hutton’s very expensive
'staff officers has no war or administrative record
of any note, but he certainly does carry the
general’s coat very nicely—always taking care to
fiash the scarlet-silk lining.
One of the most frequent things in Maoriland
is the country newspaper. Mr. J. Ivess, a candi-
date for a Southern M.L. seat at the general elec-
tion, has established no less than 28 of them. He
is known as “ the rag-planter.”
Another early-day Westralian prospector
pegged his last claim the other day—Henry Leary.
With his son-in-law, “ Charley ” Porter, the
prospector of half-a-dozen fields, he took up the
Mt. Charlotte; that was their only good Wes-
tralian “float.” Porter died a few months ago.
Let B. R. Wise take heart of grace. At
the S.M. Herald office welcome to the returned
“Mister James” Fairfax, general-manager Sam
Cook was good enough to say that “ there may be
some points of advantage about the N.S. Wales
Arbitration Act.”
A Governor at Cranbrook does not seem
to be so awesome as a Governor at the old house
in Macquarie-st. Tradesmen yell out their wares
and seem to think the Cranbrook head of the
house should run down in shirt and trousers and
take personal delivery.
THE PORTION OF THE WOMAN.
“ Can’t we go, George, dear, one night—I should
so like to see a man.”
“I have found Kate Kelly,” writes a
Bulletin correspondent. “She is living atGreeta,
the old home of the family, and is a widow with
three living children. Her mother also survives.
I had a conversation to-day with her brother, who
was until lately working at Bendigo (Vic.).”
Melba acts with the cheerful irresponsi-
bility of an Oriental potentate, and orders her
management about as if it were a messenger-boy.
A whole multitude of high-class, artistic pro-
grammes had to be cast aside at the last moment
because the diva objected to an advt. on the last
page.
It seemed cruel to get Tom Mann to dip
his finger into the hottest corner of the Vic. elec-
tion pie as soon as he landed. Presumably he is
not too prosperous, and wants to make a little
money, and that wasn’t a good start. He has
gone on to Adelaide and Broken Hill to let things
cool off in Melbourne.
Admiral Sir Harry Rawson will be 59
years old next Tuesday (Nov. 4), and President
Lancelot Stirling, of S.A. Leg. Council, will be
exactly the same age on the following day. The
Admiral has been connected with the Navy for 45
years, beginning as a cadet when he was a boy of
14, and on 18th Feb., 1897 he captured the city of
Benin.
Minister Bent began his political life in
Victoria by defeating George Higinbotham at
Brighton about 30 years ago, and nothing he has
since done could possibly wipe out that political
misdemeanor. His career has been just what
might have been expected of a man who would
seek to shut legislators of Higinbotham’s stamp
out of public affairs.
The popular yell for retrenchment in the
Victorian Railways seems to have turned the
heads of some people. A Spring poet positively
perpetrated a “Eulogy of Thomas Bent” in
about 15 verses, and sent it along to Melb. Herald,
but that humorless newspaper forbore from print-
ing the doggerel. The Eulogy of Bent would
have been one of the choicest curiosities of litera-
ture.
Of the Anglican bishops at the Adelaide
inter-State corroboree, a visitor who followed most
of the proceedings without prejudice awards the
kidney fat (or whatever the bishop’s dainty is) to
Mercer, of Tasmania. Julius, of Maoriland,
oftener hits the crowd ; but, this spectator says,
he hasn’t got the force of the newcomer from Tas.,
who, if he weren’t a bishop, might easily pass for
a successful comedian.
It is to be hoped the publication of Dean
Cowper’s autobiography will not be long delayed'
Almost a fatality attaches to Australian works of
the kind. Where is the life of Dailey ?—of the
late Chief-Justice Stephen ?—of Archbishop
Vaughan ? Materials for bulky volumes on these
and others were collected, and in some cases the
MS. was ready for print, but then hitches
occurred, or interest fell away.
It will be news to many that Earl Ran-
furly, the ex-Mildura fruit-grower, now Governor
of M.L., was in the Old Country a fervent leader
of Evangelicalism. Among his good work was a
book that he published “On Being Filled with
the Holy Spirit.” Being Filled with Victuals is
much more practical; but while so huge a share
of Britain’s wealth is monopolised by theßanfurly
clan that is impossible with many.
An Argus correspondent points out that
Prof. Larry Rentoul, of Melb., is a blood-relation
of the Rentouls of the late Boer Republics. The
Rentouls were originally French, but were driven
out with the Jouberts and others by religious
persecution. The Argus holds that this accounts
for the milk in Prof. Larry’s cocoanut. But it is
fairer to hold that Prof. Rentoul’s attitude is
accounted for by the brains in his cocoanut.
When Speaker Peter Lalor was lighting
in Eureka Stockade at Ballarat, Speaker Duncan
Gillies was working on those goldfields, and he
probably saw the fight from a distance. S.
Australia had two Speakers (Kingston and Bray)
who died at sea, and were buried in the Indian
Ocean; but, save for this gruesome parallel,
the coincidence in the Lalor-Gillies case is the
most remarkable in Australian political history.
If the last accusation made against General
Hutton is true —that he is deliberately making
officers who have risen from the ranks the chief
victims of his forced retrenchment—it should lead
to a summary ending of his command. Alleged
that Colonel Campbell (W.A.), Colonel Stuart
(S.A.) and Captain Mailer (Vic.) —all of whom
have been promoted from the ranks —are to be
retired ; and that looks like something more than
a coincidence.
A yarn about the gorgeous, recently-de-
ceased Panmure Gordon, a London stock-broker
who helped to handle so many Australian
loans, etc. :
A friend once asked him how much he spent on him-
self. “ About £2OOO a month. That is the cost of the
bare necessaries of life for a gentleman—clothes, horses,
carriages, a yacht, a grouse moor, a place in the country,
and all that, you know. Of course, if you want luxuries
it costs you more.”
Jack Want, K.C., it is told, was once
invited to enter for a fish-story competition, and
did so. Next day the secretary of the affair came
along with: “Mr. Want, you have won that
prize.” “But,” said the eminent advocate, in
surprise, “ I haven’t yet told mystery.” “Ah,”
replied the secretary, “ you’ve had a, walk over.
When the other fellows heard you’d entered they
all scratched ” ' -r
Dr. O’Brien, who succeeded Dr. Beattie
Smith as Vic. Inspector of Asylums, and ended
the M‘Birnie deadlock, was 12 years at Sun bury
asylum. He sometimes lectured in the local ball,
and once, the subject being anatomy, he explained
that some people have too much lime in their
bones, while others have a superfluity of oil, and
the results thereof. When he had finished, a
“cookie” farmer moved a vote of thanks
and spoke enthusiastically of the benefit he
had derived from the lecture ; for he once
knew a young man who was always break-
ing his legs and arms, and he had often
wondered why. Now he knew—it was
fcecause he hadn’t enough lime. The
doctor said he was pleased Mr. Blank had
learnt something, and that he wished to
relate an anecdote. “ Thank you, doctor,”
said Mr. Blank. Then O’Brien, in a grave
and kindly way, related how Mark Twain,
collecting relics in the Crimea, labelled
the headpiece of a mule, “ Skull of a
Russian General.” The sarcasm was
too subtle for the bucolic audience;
but Mr. Blank didn’t say “Thank
you,” any more. He looked like a
man who smelt a rat and couldn’t
locate it.
The windy Tay Pay O’Connor on Bun-tuck
Seddon:
1 will never forget the immense sensation he created
in one speech he delivered when he used these words :
“ God forfend the day should ever come when England
would count the cost in money when her honor is in-
volved.” The words are not original, of course, nor the
sentiment; but spoken in the thunder-notes of this man,
with his huge head, his masterful look, his overwhelming
personality, etc., etc.
“ Overwhelming personality ” sounds much better
than “ big stummick.”
MR. BARTOW SHOWS SIGNS OF
CHAMBERLAINIC INFLHENCE.
Speaker Lee Sbeere, of the Westralian
Assembly, was a member of his State’s first part-
elective Leg. Council, and has been in Parliament
ever since. That first election was a remarkable
affair. The huge territory was roughly divided
into six parts. No rolls were prepar 'd, but any
person who looked like a male and 21 at least
could drop in and vote. It was left to his honor
and the memory of the man in the booth that the
person didn’t drop in twice. But there was no
rush ; in fact, in the sixth (far-northern) section
nobody at all dropped in, and a member had to be
nominated. That was in ’6B.
Reminiscing 1 over men who have lived a
while after being shot through the heart or brain,
says veteran Melb. post-morternist, Dr. Neild:
“There is , who still carries his
wife’s bullet in his head. She came to me and
asked if he would live 24 hours. I said he might
live 24 years. I had a long chat with her. She
was a most interesting woman but like most such,
a devil. I said to her, ‘ You did shoot him, didn’t
you?’ ‘I did,’ she replied, ‘and serve him
damned well right.’ I asked her where the
revolver was, and she pulled it out and levelled it
on me. ‘ I had better be civil to you,’ I said, and
she laughed. Ah ! she was a very interesting
woman. ”
Melba, besides distinctly “knowing her
way about,” has evidently a sense of humor. A
person who had some business relations with her
when she was in Australia formerly, thought he
might turn her present visit to account, and wrote
to her to say that there was still a balance owing to
him from that time. She replied that she didn’t
know of any such liability, but that the applicant
had better communicate with her secretary. He
accordingly sent in some kind of statement, and
received in reply six autograph photos, of the
diva, with the intimation that he might make
some money—as that was evidently what he
wanted—by selling them.
“ Melb.” : Demise, Edwin Hoey, aged 78.
He was Coroner Youl’s morgue policeman, and
long held the gruesome billet. As “rounds”
reporter, I used to have the beastly job of getting
the key of the leprous-looking white old morgue
from the constable on Prince’s Bridge, and going
to see if there were any corpses on the slabs. But
when Hoey happened to be there it was almost
delightful. He was a fat, oily, jolly fellow. You
would find him on a hot-wind day, in his shirt-
sleeves, with a very short cutty in his mouth. He
would be applying a stream of water from his
hose to keep all the bodies fresh, as they lay on
three sides of him upon the slabs, ladies and gen-
tlemen perchance. Dear old Hoey ! It was
Izaak Walton, tickling the trouts as if he loved
them.
The Methodists of Adelaide, among whom
Chief Justice Way has long been a bright and
shining light, as well as a favorite pulpit illustra-
tion concerning the benefit of Sunday-school
training, are much shocked at his acceptance of
%n invitation to form one of Lord Tennyson’s
house party for the wicked Melbourne Cup. But
then he has, within the last few years, married an
Anglican wife who aspires to lead in everything
that society holds sacred, and who does not take
kindly to the trammels of Methodism.
The testimonial to Mr. Quong Tart, the
amiable Sydney Chinese trader, who had his head
hit by a till-thief the other day, reached £330 !
Mr. Tart is a very worthy personage, whose hos-
pitality to the male tabby sections of the Euro-
pean community has been bountiful and warm
(the Evangelical party in the State is always being
invited to tea with Mr. Tart) and who is deserving
of sympathy in his little misfortune. But what
entirely humorless persons are the gentlemen who
made it an occasion for a testimonial and a public
presentation!
Now that Minister Drake is back in Q.
among his old political associates, there is a
general wonderment at the metamorphosis his
hair and clothes have undergone since he took up
residence in Melbourne. Drake was never slovenly
in his attire; but in former days he affected a
negligi style, suggestive of the pensive, superior
democrat who feels himself in tolerably honest,
but hideously vulgar, society. It is well for the
transformed P.M.G. that we have passed the days
when dirty finger-nails and unwashed linen were
the hall-marks of all-wool democracy.
Kyrle Bellew has published an auto-
biographical sketch in London, full of details of
ups and downs in his pre-dramatic career. Curious
he should say that he was a reporter for Melb.
Age when Melb. Daily Telegraph was the Aus-
tralian newspaper with which he was connected.
He also omits to mention that, ere leaving Mel-
bourne for ’Ome, he recited before a committee
(whereof Chas. Bright, now of Sydney Unitarian
Church, was one), which he had asked to give its
opinion as to his fitness for a stage career. The
decision arrived at was unanimously adverse.
William (“ Ginger ”) Clarke, Minister for
Justice in a Parkes’ Executive (the politician who
got into Parliament for Orange, N.S.W., by
advocating a tax on imported cereals, and thee
calmly clambered into a portfolio as a Freetrader),
has not been heard of in N.S. W. for 15 years. He is
now living with his three daughters at Wynberg,
the fashionable suburb of Capetown. The ladies
manage a comfortable boarding-house. “ Ginger,”
who once scaled 17st., or over, is now not more
than 12st., and never bothers his head about
politics. He is not the only ex-N.S.W. minister
buried alive iif S’Africa.
But for Irish Home Rule, Attorney-General
B. R. Wise might never have become known to
Australian politics. His career at Oxford was
shaping towards academic life and on a fellowship
falling vacant he applied for the appointment.
He had his B. A. and was otherwise qualified, and
had he attained it he would have settled down to
scholastic pursuits for years at any rate. But
Home Rule filled the air at the time, and Wise
espoused it and the Land League tactics to boot.
He crowned his enthusiasm by inviting T. P.
O’Connor (“Tay Pay”), then a straight talker
and not as now a mere society twaddler, to come
to Oxford to lecture. Wise lost the fellowship on
that account, and, quitting Oxford, turned to the
Bar.
It struck three recipients (occupying
similar posts in three of the Australian States)
of Duke-of-York diamond shirt-stud gifts that it
was curious they didn’t get the baubles in their
original cases. Comparing notes afterwards they
found that the thrifty mannikin had cut up one
set of diamond studs to provide gifts for three
people ! The Duke must have found his tour a
most profitable spec. ; he and his wife received in
all 900 presents, some of them of great value, and
probably worth in the aggregate £90,000 ; and in
return they gave away—photoes and sections of
stud-sets. Almost the sorriest advt. Imperialism
ever had in Australasia was the visit of the Duke
of York. It was almost as disastrous as the visit
of that champion mean man, his Royal uncle.
Concerning the candidates described by
themselves as “Gentlemen,” who failed at recent
Vic. elections, one N.S.W. Labor M.P. had the
misfortune to go down, partly owing to the fact
that, another fellow called him a “gentleman.”
An intelligent constable, calling at his suburban
residence during his absence, to collect the roll,
inquired of Mrs: Labor-Member her husband’s
occupation, and being told he wasaM.P., wrote
down “gentleman.” Member never saw the roll
until near election time (he wasn’t running for the
electorate he lived in), too late to get it altered.
He consulted a legal friend and was told that it
wasn’t safe to be described on the nomination-
paper by any other term than that used in the
electoral-roll, as he might be unseated on petition
if elected. He let this view prevail, and
appearing as “So-and-So,” occupation “gentle-
man,” was duly anathematised by some and ridi-
culed by others as a jumped-up person, and lost
the election by a small handful of votes.


QUALITY AND FLAVOUR UNSURPASSED.
MACONOCHIE’S
DELICIOUS TINNED FISH.
Swift & Company, 7 Spring Street, Sydney, Australian Agents.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Before booking: your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers’
Gazette & Sailing List, with map.
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins-st., Melbourne. 4 Hunter-st., Sydney.
GrO TO TTTIT.T..
KiOfiANji for Prelty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis.
K uppers Elberfeld Lager.
Aboriginalities.
To Contributors.— In the ease of ethnological and
natural-history items, etc., always give date and
place of experience ; or as nearly as possible. Thus
many interesting observations will have scientific
value.
“Walnic”: The existing drought has
made havoc amongst native fauna. I counted
10 dead emus recently between Trangie and
Narromine, N.S.W. The kangaroo is slain for
its skin, but emus are killed out of pure wanton-
ness, and opportunity is seized when they are
weak to slaughter them in scores. (Emu eggs
also are taken in large numbers—about 400 were
sent away from Trangie last year.) In fenced
country the weak ’roos and emus cannot travel,
and when water and grass give out in one paddock
they have to stay and perish. Govt, should long
ago have set apart an area in the West, with
frontage to, say, the Darling, for the preservation
of these characteristic types. The late H. J.
M’Cooey advocated something of the sort years
ago, and the point is well worthy the attention of
the Museum and University authorities.
* * • *
The generosity of Private Enterprise
towards a drought-stricken brother, as set forth in
Melbourne Argus :
AN OFFER OF ASSISTANCE.
A Bairnsdale farmer has written to the Minister for
Lands stating that he is willing to assist any northern
dairymen who are anxious to save their cows from star-
vation. In his letter he says he is willing to make terms
with any dairyman who has any cows in milk, or cows
about to come into milk, and who has no grass for them.
“ I am prepared,” he writes, “ to take up to 30 head of
cows free of charge, provided I am allowed to milk the
same. I have 150 acres of well-grassed country six miles
from Bairnsdale, and I can run 30 head for a few months.’
In other words, be offers to take the milk without
paying for the cows. This sort of thing may be
called Charity, but it looks a great deal more like
Loot.
* * * *
The “ vast natural resources ” of Victoria
are putting in a heavy time at present. The
THE LADY OR THE RAGOUT.
CANNIBAL HEAVY FATHER (pointing to newly-arrived lady missionary):
“My son, you must either cherish this lady or digest her. Per-
sonally lam strongly disposed to keep her in the family; but if
you view the matter differently to the pot she goes!”
(Reader, what would you have done?)
northern half, from which the population seems
to be fast departing, is practically a desert.
Below the range the usually-reliable medium
country is experiencing a blistering that “ lays
over ” anything the oldest identities can recall.
The Gippsland cornei, a patch of Ballarat country
and a fragment down Warrnambool way are
almost the only bits left of the “great natural
resource ” backbone that is sup Dosed to be keeping
Vic. on its pins. Mallee and Wimmera men—all
hope of a harvest being gone—are hunting their
teams into S.W. plains for grass; but it is a
“goat’shouse for wool” sort of a mission.
* * * *
From Horsham Times (Vic.):
Mr. W. Langley is sending his sire to Mount Gambier,
this season, owing to the scarcity of grass.
The suggestion that Bangley, sen., exists on grass
says something for the success of “natural indus-
tries.”
* * * *
So far as far-west (N.S. W.) shearing sheds,
at any rate, go, the A.W.U.’s recent contention
that present prices are not good enough is fully
proved by the fact that at least half of the
remote stations are stuck up for want of men.
* • • •
Two farmers recently deserted their farms
in Oarrieton (S.A.) district, taking their waggons
and horses only, and started out trying to keep
the latter alive. In the waggon of one were a
couple of foals, too weak to follow.
A few of the worst-off among far-west
N.S.W. squattages, including a couple of river
stations, are shearing in the paddocks —the sheep
haven’t the strength to get to the sheds.
* • • •
The compression of fodder, now a fair-
sized business in S. Australia, has been a god-
send to those far-west N.S.W. and northern S.A.
squattages which have had to keep their working
stock alive on camel-carried stuff. A “brick ”of
it measures only Gin. x 14in. x 10in., and, as a
rule, includes 201 b. chaff, 61b. crushed oats, 21b.
bran—steamed and pressed and dried down to
251 b. Four of these are put up in a handy-sized
bale.
* * * •
One never knows for certain how or when
his mail will arrive in Queensland back towns.
It has been known to finish the journey in a
wheelbarrow, in the “poisoners’” cart, per the
Afghan’s camel, and a variety of other ways. The
latest is the mail-tramp. His horse died on the
way in from the Diamantina, and he humped the
mail-bags 40 miles to Winton, arriving a day
behind schedule time.
» * • *
The Irvine Government, having rushed
to the rescue of the drought-stricken, poor
farmer of N.W. Victoria by carrying his sheep to
the Gippsland pastures practically for “nix”—
they are trucked across tne State “on tick,” the
farmer promising to pay the froight “ when he is
able”—said agriculturist is now rushing away
animals that have no earthly hope of surviving
the journey. T’other day, what remained of three
train-loads of jumbuclc skin and bone—7ooo of
them—reached Bairnsdale from the West. When
the trucks were opened nearly 2000 were dead
from exhaustion, and these had all the wool eaten
off their. backs by the survivors. More died
before they could be got from the trucks to the
water; and some were saved by a horde of children
bringing them water in jam-tins and pouring it
down their throats. Hard to say whether greed
or stupidity is mainly responsible for such cruel
folly- ....
Concerning rab-
bits “W.L.” writes:
“Bobrid” (B. 27/9/02)
replies to me that he
“ merely stated what
he actually saw, not
what he thought.” If
so, he saw “ a trap,
with a rabbit in it, left
at a warren, and not a
rabbit went near it for
three months." Imagine
“ B.” standing sleepless
sentinel over bunny’s
corpse through ninety
weary days and nights !
Again : “On Erinvale
station trappers showed
me scores of gravid
does.” But will “ B.”
contend that the pro-
portion of gravid does
during the drought was
even 5 per cent, of the
normal number ? From
some of the most in-
fested areas in Bathurst
district trappers shifted,
owing to poor market
condition of bunny ; but
instead of the respite
stimulating the birth
rate, the rabbits all
died ; and where, six
months ago, you could
not walk a minute
without seeing rabbits,
you may now travel for
an hour without seeing
one. Trapping, alone,
would never have re-
duced the rabbits to
controllable limits in
the heavily - infested
areas ; but the drought
(by slopping, or almost
stopping, breeding), to-
gether with trapping,
has so reduced the pest
that it is now possible,
by continual and sys-
tematic trapping, to
keep bunny within
reasonable limits, and
make him a source of
revenue instead of a loss
to the State.
“ Lake ” Buloke, in the Donald (Vic.)
shire, is now used as a racecourse—having been
dry for years. The land about this old water-
basin is so elevated that the settlers- cannot be
supplied with water from the channels of the
Wimmera United water-trust.
* * * *
Told of the nine-year-old son of a mallee
farmer staying with some relations in St. Kilda
(Vic.). On the evening after his arrival in the
metropolis he came into the house, his eyes
bulging with excitement and his felt hat full of
dirty water. “ I found it out there in the street!”
he cried.
• * *
There was a par. here lately re a bush
youngster who, riding alone 10 or 12 miles from
home, had his thigh broken, yet caught his horse,
dragged himself up and rode in. The story illus-
trated the grit of bush Australia; the sequel
illustrates its recent luck. While the parents
were taking the boy in to the nearest doctor, at
White Cliffs, 50 miles away, their home was
burned, every stick of their furniture was des-
troyed, and the girl who had been left in charge
was injured in making her escape.
* * * *
“J.F.”: A pigeon - breeder told me
yesterday that he gave away three eggs from a
Erize homing strain, and two young pigeons
atohed from them returned to him as soon as
they could fly. He lived 12 miles from the man
he gave them to. How’s that for heredity ?
MRS. EUGEN SANDOW.
The Sirius Studios, Melbourne.
Mildura, Australia’s most prosperous
irrigation village, now cultivates 8455 acres. It
lias 4644 acres under vines (nearly all for raisins
and currants), 998 under oranges and lemons, and
1386 under apricots, peaches, and figs. Pumping
and other water-trust expenses cost £13,085 during
the last 12 months ; in addition, the community
humps an annual interest-swag of £l4OO.
• * * *
Tom Coward, the veteran explorer, writes
to an Adelaide paper for information re the
bottle-tree. Why is there nearly always a long
slit in it ? Who cut the trees, and when and why ?
And what portion, if any, has been or is used for
food ? No naturalist or scientific man, he says,
has touched the question.
* « * *
The remarkable sand-binding properties
of the grass known as “marram” are being
demonstrated just now on the beach at Bondi,
Sydney. Marram was introduced into Australia
by Baron Von Mueller about 20 years ago, and
through its agency have been reclaimed about 50
miles of sandhills on the Victoria!) coast. This
grass—once it gets a footing—is practically
ineradicable. And it is an excellent fodder, 100
acres of it having, in one instance, carried a beast
per acre for six months.
• * * ♦
Economics are wasted on our black brud-
der. King Billy, who was going to Longreach,
Q., to do some shopping, was advised
by the overseer not to buy cheap rub-
bish. “ Always give a good price for
a good article.” When William ar-
rived at the shop he first examined
a felt hat. “ What price that pfel-
ler?” he asked. “Five bob,” said
the shopman. “Well, here, I gib
you one poun’ for him. I alwas
pay good price for good arkittle.”
“ R.A.P.” : The reason
why Hindu hawkers “ work ”
particular beats nowadays (8.,
4/10/’O2) is that they are organ-
ised by boss-niggers who im-
port them in droves and teach
them pidgeon-English. When
one group has acquired the
regulation grin, and learnt how
to say, “ Velly cheap, tank you,”
“Onlee sikpence, yes please,”
they are provided with packs and
assigned routes. They never get
really bushed; they pick up a
wheel-track and follow it till they
arrive somewhere. As long as the
cringing Hindu can live on 2s. per
week and grin like an earthquake
when Mrs. Cockie says, “Hooki-
la,” or something equally witty, lie’s
sure to prosper out here.
One admirable characteristic of many bush
people in Queensland is the desire to get their
youngsters a good education. A Queensland
M.L.A. told in the Assembly recently how a
boundary-rider, in receipt of 255. a week and one
ration, gave the ration and 10s. a week to a tutor
to educate his children, and contrived to support
himself and family on the other 15s. Bush ohil-
dren in Queensland often walk distances of from
two to five and six miles to attend the local pro-
viqlrmsil sebnnl
‘ „
, , „ , T , . . T .
“ Ancona (from Mulwala) : I saw, a few
days ago, a dead steer with four white ibises
perched on the carcase, like . crows, digging-in
vigorously. I had thought previously that the
ibis was a graminivorous bird. Accepting the
conditions forced on it by hard times, I sup-
pose ?
“F.M.” gives a few irrigation facts :
In 1886, in the Goulburn Valley, Victoria, there was a
leanness. The fields were white, the harvest thin, the
stock poor. But one Kavanagh slapped his pocket,
puffed his cheeks, and said, “ I have found it. Come an
see.” We passed through the lean folks and saw. On
five of us in it,” said Kavanagh, so far. There s 1 agan,
West, M'Leod, D’Arveniza, and myself.”
“ nfl hal ” P? aid Kavanagh. “In red-flag days it was
drao' the stuff up and put it through the water , now,
turn the water on and let it find its way down, bee
D’Arveniza’s vines, leaves like plates, berries bke wal-
nuts; M'Leod’s wheat, surer to go 30 bushels than the
Valley is to average ten ; Pagan’s lucerne, 20fat bulocks
on ten acres of it; he will fatten 60 through the year
West’s fruit trees, all sorts and all thriving; my little
paddock of apricots and lucerne, too ; I d rather have
them than any 500 acres of wheat outside.
These five men went on and prospered; a few others
have since joined them. , n i.
Year 1838, Murray River. Dust, flies, and desolation
all aroun 1, and Mildura beginning. Lord Ranfurlya
settlement alongside. One Izard, starting lone-handed
to deal with ten acres of sand and scrub on Mildura.
Ranfurly (His Ex., of Maoriland) is in Sydney in the later
nineties' And what of Mildura ? w
“Our settlement by Mildura, capital! capital! we
liave increased the capital to £30,000, not one share gone
outside. We make, and are sure of 10 per cent, or more.
Izard, in the early nineties, had got up to £2OO a year,
and was going strong. One of a class, Izard, just a little
brainier and harder-working than his neighbors.
Culgoa River, North Darling, 1877 (or thereabouts): A
bad year. I came dead-beat to Tommy French’s dam.
B jundary rider Tommy, with a bit of digging experience.
“ Beef's hard,” said he, “but lean cook you a cabbage
or make you a salad, and we’ll tackle a 201 b. water-melon
“Is the champagne on ice, Tommy, and are the wood-
cocks fat V”
“ Come and see,” said Tommy. We saw a patch, 40ft.
by 10ft., staked round, and inside green stuff enough to
stock a Chinaman’s cart, with a couple of hundredweight
of water-melons lying about.
’O5 and thence on to date. Pera Bore, despite all the
wrongheadedness of management, an oasis.
’92 again, culmination of Western horror, and while
folks generally are picking dead wool and stacking bones,
Nelson, on his homestead lease, south of Hungerford, is
carting in his oaten hay; a farm around a bore in the
desert. Men forking and raking, horses moving com-
fortably to a “ gee-woa,” and half-a-dozen squatters rid-
ing up to see if Nelson will sell.
*92 still, on the old river, Sugar country, Queens'and.
Cane generally poor, but two plantations have turned on
the golden water, and- —well? “Of course it’s well .
Who ever saw better?” It is like a patch of jungle
growth or Gippsland scrub amongst sparse mallee or
niggard mulga. ~ , ...
’92 in Riverina, the fat land that should be, and Mr.
Sam M'Oaughey speaks: “I have irrigated the ordinary
red soil of Riverina, and under sorghum it will grow food
equal to the support of 40 sheep to the acre.” Now, sup-
pose Walter Hall had said : “ I have washed the ordinary
red soil of Riverina and have found that under proper
treatment it will yield 4wt. to the ton.” What sort of
rush would there be 1 How would the North and the
South and the East and the West empty themselves into
Riverina? llow would England and America pour out
their millions and their millionaires? And yet the pros-
pect in the latter is certainly not better than in the
former case. Water is the one essential of either. And
its use in the one way would make the land a Paradise ;
in the other a mullock-heap.
• * * *
“ Jack-a’-Clubs ” : Can any Bulletin
reader explain why, if you get in a direct line
with two hills (near together) you cannot hear a
noise which is between you and the hills ? I make
a point of listening to my bullock-bell, and as
soon as the beast with it on gets in line with me
and the hills, the ringing becomes inaudible.
“ M‘Lirr ” : If “ J.A.F.” (8., 6/9’/02)
will hang some small mirrors on the branches of
his fruit trees he will not be troubled by green
leek parrots, or by any other birds.
WATER-ECONOMY.
CISSY : “ Mother, please speak to Johnny; I want
to get a drink, and he won’t take his toe out
of the tap.”
WfIT , Q ” . nmutirm nf diseased
U °P a . • J. i(i consumption ol
u'eat. During the three years I lived on a
Queensland station I don t believe I ever a e
anything but diseased beef. We were not allowe
)° kill anything that wasn t either lumpy
(cancerous) or pleuritic. The worst parts were
out out and given to the blacks, but even they
often wouldn’t take it on. Yet I can’t say that I
know of any evil effects having arisen from eating
such meat,
• * • *
Order received by a Tas. country store-
keeper
P i ease ' send me lib. candels, 31b. salt, i peper, a
packet magnesur, a pint yest, and have you a enty carin-
seen tin.


A Drink! A Tonic! A Medicine!
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Call for WOLPB’S Schnapps and make sure that
you take nothing else.
£
■ I
IB
The Ladies’ “Fx. & R.” WATCH
at £6 6s
IS a f-plate Lever.
IS Jewelled in 10 holes.
HAS a Ruby Roller Jewel.
HAS Solid Heavy 14ct. Gold Case.
HAS Brequet Hair Spring.
HAS Compensated and Adjusted Balance.
IT IS Guaranteed for 15 Years, and kept in order for Two
Years (breakages excepted) without charge.
IT WILL stand Hard Riding and knocking about.
IT IS made in Every Style of Case.
IT goes with profound accuracy.
Ladies’ Three-Quarter Plate Movement,
Solid Gold Case, £6 6a.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, 23 hun'te&streetC SYDNEY.
“ Bobrid ” : Be “ Scotty’s” lost
reef (B. 4/10/’02): In my salad days I
spe it much wearisome search for the
alleged El Dorado of the miner who
died carrying his golden secret with
him, but I never found it. Nor did
anyone else find it. It is a mighty
poor goldfield that can’t remember
s : x miners who found fabulously rich
reefs and then died without giving
the address, and no single one of these
reefs has been discovered so far as
my knowledge goes. There are dead-
broke goldfields which wouldn’t sell
for two-pence, but which are surroun-
ded by the immensely rich but undis-
coverable reefs found by old men who
died immediately afterwards. The ex-
planation is probably simple enough.
The old prospector is finding reefs all
his life, and not one in a thousand
is* much good, though a certain pro-
portion yield a specimen or two. A
certain proportion of old prospectors
must die immediately after finding a
specimen or two and locating a reef
which they propose to examine further
in the.morning. And though, in the
course of a long, unremunerative
existence, the ancient has found many
casual specimens and many casual
reefs, with little profit out of any
of them, a halo gathers round that
last specimen ; and that last reef, just
because it can’t be found, becomes
a Golconda. On many a goldfield some
individual |who wishes he could drop
on the lost “jeweller’s shop” which
olrl Prospector Smith found and lost
again just before he pegged out, is
probably working Prospector Smith’s
lost reef all the time without knowing
it, and breaking his heart trying to
make 10s. a week out of it.
* * * *
In Westralia they are trying
an experiment with a cross between a
corduroy read and a tramway. Stone
being scarce in some of the timber country,
they are laying jarrah planks lengthways for
a wheel-track, with a strip of macadam between
for the horses.
* * • •
A young Chinese market-gardener, sued
by his landlord at Melbourne county c ,urt, t’other
day, for rent, sent this epistle in reply to the de-
mand for payment:—
139 Bourke-street, Melbourne, 15th November, 1899.
Dear Sir, —To support our public doctrine of the
prestige illustration to restore salubrious enjoyments
prime to demonstrate the Cup season. I acknowledge
your transit will supervise the same your prime of health,
I appreciate you. As to the detouration of the season, it
will prophesize to fortell the thirstiness of the consecuting
months ; occasion with heavy rainfall. Household dwel-
lers, with inferior roof, will soon complaint and suffer
same. Strange to say the Being’s spending most of the
hour in dwelling houses, is the bedroom ; but due to
inferiority of the roof and walls. Sufferers (sleepers) are
compel to retire from their natural slumber. At the same
time foundation of houses are generallydestroyed through
neglect of improvements. However, this matter refer to
the same idea of our dwelling place. The best time to
inspect and improve is during the rainy season. In con-
clusion, with best wishes, and sustain, confirm interest to
aid the sufferers.—Yours truly,
WING MOW.
And it all meant that the roof leaked !
« * * •
“ Cripps C.” : There’s a lot of take-it-on-
trust about some prevailing bush notions. Was
told once that yon can’t poison a goanna. I gave
one a “ bait,” and kept it up a tree until it fell
out stiff ; and as my informant handed me over
his wager, he remarked that he’d always heard
it was impossible. Just that. He’d never tried it.
MADAME MELBA: An Old-Time Portrait.
Photo, by Johnstone O’Shannessy &c Co., Melbourne.
The best money-making dodge at country
shows is the weight-guessing competition. A
bullock, cow or sheep is yarded, and the public at
a “bob” ahead, are allowed to guess its weight
when dressed. “ Guess ”is the proper word, for
skill hasn’t a chance—and it’s always “hit,”
generally by some counter-jumper or publican (a
dressmaker landed the prize at one N.-S.W. show),
but never by the expert meat man or bleeder.
HENRY LEE as GYRANO DE BERGERAC.
Photo, by Talma, Sydney.
“W.”: Re tick remedy, from S’Africa
(8., 4/10/’O2): —
The old-time Laimatone-and-treacle remedy has been
successfully used about Kilkivan (Q.) for months past.
Maryborough Chronicle (Aug. ’O2) reported that “ the
ticks shrivelled up and dropped off completely, and a
thorough cure seems to have been effected. Rough
ground sulphur is said to be better for the purpose than
flour of sulphur.” A W. Queenslander informed Gladstone
Advogatb (June,’o2) that “a sure cure for tick-infested
horses is to give them a good sea-bath, which is the best
tick dip he has met with. After a short swim the
animals are entirely freed from the pest.” Another W.
Queenslander (“ 5.M.H.,” Jan., ’02)“ I lived five years
on the Georgina River, on the travelling stock route of
the Gulf and tick-ridden country, and never a beast
coming from that sour country but what was affected
with ticks at starting from their respective runs. As
soon as they struck the salt-bush and Mitchell grass
country the ticks began to die off them. . . How is it that
the runs on the Georgina are free of ticks, notwithstand-
ing that stock from the tick area have been travelling
along their frontages for the past 15 years ? From obser-
vation, and from what I gathered from experienced stock-
men, the tick is indigenous to certain parts of Queens-
land and all tropical coasts, and it is as reasonable to
expect the tick to thrive in the salt-bush country as for a
whale to live in a fresh-water pond. I travelled 12 months
in the. redwater and tick country, and kept my horses
free from disease and tick by giving them salt now and*
then.” It is a fact that no cattle-ticks have ever been
found in salt-bush country, and stockowners might take
a hint from this and spread a little rock-salt on their
runs, or, better still, sweeten their sour runs with salt
bush.
* * • •
Three stations in Trangie (N.S. W.) district
have just finished shearing 87,000 sheep among
them, against 290,000 last year. One station has
lost 92,000.
“A.P.R.”: The reason why
the use of arsenic or strychnine
doesn’t keep down crows is because
both have immediate effect. When
a crowd of crows start feeding on a
poisoned carcase, the first bird that
feels a grip at his intestines at
once squawks, whereupon the ban-
quet ceases, and that carcase is
thereafter strictly tabooed. Phos-
phorised fat is much more effec-
tive, as it gives time for all to have
a square meal before anything un-
pleasant occurs.
• * * *
“ W.N.” : Re deciduous Aus-
tralian trees. The kurrajong (ster-
culia diversitalia) also sheds its
leaves, though at irregular inter-
vals, the new leaves remaining
much lighter in color for some
time than the old ones. Silky oak
(greirllea robusta) has no regular
period, but seems to prefer hot
weather. The “oaks” at Warren
(N. S. W.), by the way, were
shedding their leaves four weeks
ago—probably as a result of
drought.
* * * *
“ Nym.” : Country townships
that have seen better days have
always their cherished legends.
When the Echuca (Vic.) citizen
takes his visitor for a twilight stroll
over the Murray bridge he pauses
mysteriously about midway across,
clutches his companion’s arm, and
tells him in sepulchral tones that
when the pillars of the structure on
which they are standing were being
cast, a workman fell into a cauldron
of molten metal and perished hor-
ribly. Then the said eitizen wipes away the tear
that conies of long practice and leads mournfully
on. The legend is a lie, but the Echuca people
have told it so often they believe it now.
* • * «
“E.M.S.”: Re the different colors of
crows’ eyes. We had a crow given to us about
two years ago. It was then about six months old,
and had hazel eyes, but since then it has become
“ white-eyed.”
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any State) accompany.
G-.M. : Anything we use is paid for. Skit is
out of our line. And, by-the-way, a great singer isn’t
likely to snore in sleep : snoring is a sign of throat or nose
trouble, which would interfere with success as a vocalist.
A.B. : On an average 20 people a week send us poems
about a first kiss, or a second kiss, or a last kiss, or a soft
kiss, or a squashy kiss, and one line always is “ Heavens,
what ecstasy 1” or words to that effect. We’re very tired
of that kiss G.E.S. : Your informant was a lovely
liar. The Australian “ porcupine ” (echidna) has no
teeth, and, consequently, no use for apples W.J.D. :
It would add a new agony to an already painful life were
we to undertake to interpret poems published in “ B.”
Have sent your letter on to perpetrator ; he may reply
and explain what he ifieant Jobo : There are stronger
instances than that. For instance, it is recorded that
around the grave of the Mormon elder, Taylor, there
stood 40 stalwart sons of his... .E.M.P. : The “Esq.” is
an absurd convention. As a matter of fact, there are few
technically entitled to it in Australia but solicitors and
J’s. P.—two classes by no means the most worthy
in the community....T.H. : Mere album verse
Little Daniel: The yarn that David Syme has bought a
lot of stock in the Arqus is no doubt mere bosh
Jaynol: You dogmatise gaily upon a slender knowledge
of physiology. Kangaroo-tail question threshed out in
Bulletin long ago. You don’t say when and where you
saw your colossal bird P.II. : Politics, thy name is
Organisation. Be an organiser, young blatherskite, and
you will sooner or later get elected to Parliament in pre*
ference to a worthier man who doesn’t “know the
ropes.”.... J.B. : It’s Omar and water ; and Omar doesn’t
mix well with water... .R.W.K.: “ Some of your poetry
is first-class,” you say; why send us the 20th-class stuff ?
Lewart: The demand for kiss-poetry in this office is
strictly limited ; yet half male Australia wants to gloat
over his best girl in our columns John Byrnes : Differ-
ence is this : the N.S.W. Attorney-General’s intervention
in the Friedman case was on the side of liberty, whereas
Judge Docker’s interference in the other case was with a
view to punishing severely where the jury had prescribed
mercy. The cases were thus by no means on all-fours....
Andrews. : Some grace, but no innards J.W.D. : (1)
Not quite up to mark. (2) Requires an explanatory
dictionary. But there ought to be some good copy on
your beat; try again Awakimo : Not exactly cn the
ground of morality, but of taste. If a love rhapsody
suggests such a place it gets a hint of the sordid and
repulsive. As revised, probably use X.X.X.X. : Out
of our line Harold F. : We really don’t know the cir-
culation of the other widely-distributedpaper named....
Nym. : Why “ Knights of the shears”? Why not
“shearers”? Boil it all down. ...Yar. : Kookaburra-
and-snake and big death-adder themes long ago played
out Jimmy: Impossible to deal with such closely-
written MS. . J.A.T. : We can’t absolutely guard
against such plagiarisms, but we do our best. And we
altogether differ from your opinion as to the work of the
artist in question, which is admired by judges probably
more competent than either you or ourselves T.H.
(M.L.): Hideously long-winded... . 3. Yran : We don’t
risk libels of that sort.... Unsuitable: Geebung, Oktis,
T.S.M., 11. F., V4G., L.S.R., John P 0.0. W. :
As a rule, the writer who starts out by talking
about his copyright and fixing a price for his
matter doesn’t produce anything worth buying
H.O. : You would have a better chance with, say, The
Australasian R.K. : The wholesale man (presuming
there was a wholesale man in those cases) has nothing to
do with the retailing of rotten fish to the public. Nor
does he impose rotten fish upon the retailers, unless they
have lost the faculties of sight and smell. The evidence
of tinned fish being rotten is the “ blown” tin. A retailer
doesn’t innocently purchase “ blown” tins for sound tins.
. ...E.D. : “Murray” covers far too much space....
0.H.L.: Theory about Javanese device for producing
sleep is impossible as you put it, for anatomical reasons.
. . .Naraden : Not a hitof swing B.M. : Good promise;
not strong enough yet... .Berthe: A good deal of
promise. You need to be more careful with your rhyming
and metre... Gilaomi : Horse-yarn as old as Noah
Maggie K. : Rather too thin Smith-H. : “Audi” far
below the mark F. B. Fraser: Absolutely nothing in
it.. ..Wilga : Treatment not skilful, enough L.F.R. :
The verse lias merit, but hardly enough for print.. ..
Nad Dyall: Will be considered W.D.W. : Nothing in
all that Miner: Too natural, in the circumstances, to
call for comment Thos. M. : Haven’t the slightest
idea Deeby : Sub judice —so no comment yet
G.G.G. : Well conceived, but dramatic opportunity
missed R.A.K. : Not a bad idea, but treatment in-
artistic and slovenly Sidney P. : Not up to print-
level Jonah : Style over-florid and pretentious
J-nib : You’ve got your personages hopelessly mixed-up...
O.R.P. : Never call ’em “poems”; always say verses.
Anything labelled “ poem ” by the writer thereof is always
a hopeless thing... .J.11.R. : Somebody has been filling
you with nonsense 0.H.L.: Interesting, but too tech-
nical for Bulletin J. 0.8.: That discussion is now
ancient history... .Lux : “A humble attempt.” Well,
your humility disarms criticism G umsucker: Not well
enough put together Guitar : You have no story-tell-
ing gift Petramos : That idea has been used already in
Bulletin F.B.S. : You send not one usable item
T.P.W. : Thanks ; but, having been already at least par-
tially published, they would not suit this paper Sid J. :
Aboriginal-twin question settled. The other matter can’t
even be mentioned in Bulletin Jerong : Can’t make
out what it’s all about Joseph C. : Not much point in
it A.F.B. : Bulletin has no use fora story “laid” in
an English village... .Aurora: Treatment not bright
enough E.E.B. : Too trifling for print Edgar B. :
Hopelessly cheap and conventional H.C.P. : Lacks
force and finish 11. Heath: Too stiff and prosy
Smith 11. : “ Missed the ’bus ” once more Piebald : A
foolish production Bunnie : Can’t stand a whole tale
in jargon.... N. O’F.: Will be considered. Your pen-name
is also that of a Sydney writer. Better take another
Doosha : Indifferently versed, and much too long for the
interest. Send address for return... .E.W.M. : The lum-
bering style slays the humor Diggles : No Bulletin
interest.. ..Gerald B. : Would have made a paragraph
0n1y... .M.E.D.: Hasn’t finish enough. .Wattle-blossom :
Rather conventional and weak, and too long for this
paper, anyhow. W.A.W. : Flat and feeble ending
I. V. : “ Western Queen ” a good deal too long for the
interest C.L.R. : “Into Town” joggles too much
Zad. : We’ve had a great deal on same subject before,...
Sun : Essentially of the British type of “ humor.”
Gascoigne : Not enough in it Percy : Fancy that any
public body can get the same privilege E.O. : Too
jingly Iris : A London Journal story adapted to the
bush ; and it doesn’t adapt well.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
L.G. : Photos, so faint as to be hopelessly irrepro-
ducihle, aDyhow D.F.L. : But why color anything
designed for black-and-white reproduction? H.:
Somehow your drawing doesn’t accentuate the “ Essen-
tials” idea. But it is promising... .W.R.M. : Utterly
hopeless sketches....Od. C. : The big one is an
excellent groundwork for a political sketch, and will be
so used ; hut your drawing is far too laborious. As you
have ideas you should get along if you study under intelli-
gent direction at a life-class. “Mates’ Amenities” will
also serve as an idea Rutherford 0. : The drawings he
sends are obviously mere copies, and of no use to any-
body Heather B.: "Helping H.” will do; others re-
turned A.B.H. : A good enough idea, but the drawing
quite fails Unavailable: V.H., E. 8., R.M.1., D.S.S.
(returned), Harold W. 8., Roy, J.A.0., H.S., E.R.M‘O.,
T.M.0., Helen Banks, Graeme D., Smith Hill.
“ F.H.” concerning “slinks ” :
Allow me, as having 15 years’ experience of the country
produce business, to say that the writer of the item on
“ slinks ”(B. 11/10/’O2) doesn’t know what he is talking
about. That country forwarding agent, who is alleged to
have sent 700 slinks to Melb. in one day, did more than
“ put up a record ” —he did the impossible 1 Firstly,
there are seldom more than 1000 calves of all sizes (say
from 401 b. to 2001 b.) sold in Melb. in any one week, and of
these not 5 per cent, weigh under 421 b. or 431 b. (the Meat
Supervision Act minimum is 401 b., exclusive of head and
feet). Also, the great majority of Yic. farmers send their
produce direct to the selling agent, without the inter-
vention of a forwarding agent. Again—since a calf whose
bare carcase, when offered for sale, must weigh 401 b.,
will, alive, weigh 601 b. to 701 b.—the statement that "many
of them were not a week old ”is pure rubbish. 1 fail to
see also how a calf of from 401 b. to 451 b. (which is certainly
not a slink), whose price has rarely, if ever, exceeded 2d.
per lb., can be worth from 7s. to 18a. I don’t know any-
thing about sausage constituents, but I do know that
slinks are very rarely sent to Melbourne, and that the
man who does send one for sale loses money thereby.
ANOTHER EMPIRE-WRECKER.
This may not be a portrait of Australia’s new
Governor-General, but it is the portait of Eden
George, leader of the N.S.W. Secessionist
party.
Eden Photo., Sydney.
“Russian Designs and British Policy”
was the title of an article with which Sydney
Telegraph filled up a vacant moment, the other
day. The Australian press, when news is scarce,
is strangely given to spilling good damp ink about
tho dark proceedings of Russia, and in these
scare articles Russia always has “designs” and
“insidiously encroaches,” while Britain has a
“policy” and “expands.” Yet Russia only
takes one acre where Britain grabs five or ten,
and where Russia eats up one State Britain eats at
least three. How would it be if Britain “ en-
croached ” for a while, and Russia “expanded”?
Turn about is a fair thing.
A man suffering from scarlet fever asked
admittance to Melbourne Hospital, the other day,
and was declined without thanks. He spent his
last half-crown on a voyage to Geelong, in the
hope of getting into the hospital at the Hollow.
Geelong wasn’t taking him, and the patient
walked back to Melbourne (45 miles), and asked
the city police to do something for him ; but the
Law said it could do nothing unless he committed
a crime, so he knocked about Melbourne till he
was nearly dead, and then appealed to the Charity
Organisation Society. The Society took him to
the hospital, and he was again warned off, “ being
in a highly infectious state.” The patient was
left in the hospital yard till dark while the City
Council was appealed to. The Council provided
money for a bed in a cheap doss-house. Next
morning a brother of the sidle man turned up.
The brother was as poor as the patient, and hi 3
home was 80 miles off. When last heard of, the
pair had started out to walk that distance, scatter-
ing germs freely by the way. The infectious
diseases hospital, to the honor and glory of Queen
Victoria, is still the desolate home of a few thou-
sand Melbourne sparrows.


Extract of letter from Osiris to Isis
“I went without any tea, and from 7 * 9 talked to a hot,
crowded audience until my underworks creaked.
Meaning his new boots, no doubt: ,
Fragment of bas-relief representing Isis laying
offerings at the feet of Osiris.
Isis is here seen trying to explain to the court and a jury of 12 more-
or-less good men and true how difficult it is to separate sentiment
, _ from business.
In another
epistle was
"*] the following:
“ They sent me £lO,O
Up about a week, ago, but
f the lawyer and the old
-m —■ woman got it.”
His Honor “ Who’s 1 the old
woman’?”
Witness “ His mother-in-
law.” (Loud laughter.)
Osiris with a mother-in-law ! j
•• He told her repeatedly that Mrs. S
Osiris suffered terribly from her heart, j
and that the doctor had said she could;
not live more than 12 months. He also ?
said it had been prophesied by the Roai-
crucians’ lodge that she could not possibly j
Jive He asked her if anything hap- ]
pened to Mrs. Osiris would she then be ;
his wife and mother to his children, i
When 12 months expired, and what he j
had told her had not come true, she did \
not write to him for two months. ” \
»He wrote and asked her what her I
attitude would be when he came to Mel-
bourne, and she answered • ‘ My attitude
towards you cannot be more than
sisterly ' ”
Mrs Osiris, it would seem, had a
better constitution than the doc-
tors and the Rosicrucians had
counted upon
“ Osiris had got her by this time so
: much muddled by his psychic training
| and mental telepathy that she really
i believed that one of the Indians bad
visited her psychically.”
The question is whether or mot these
psychical Indians come under the
Aliens Immigration Restriction Act!
ISIS UNVEILED. "OWN CABUH .
TROM SOME EAS-RELIEFS AND PAPYRUS MANUSCRIPTS RECENTLY UNEARTHED FROM THE ANCIENT PYRAMIDS OF MELBOURNE BY “THE BULLETINS


MB. M'CUTCHEON ENTERTAINED.
H3B IMPRESSIONS,OP PARLIAMENT.
While he was delighted to rub shoulders
with the working man, that individual
must not be allowed to govern this country*
entirely. (Cheeis.) Those who represented
the so-called classes in Parliament, and tried
to govern the country, were not fitted for
i the duty, oecause they lacked the mercan-
tile training required in the conduct of a.
State business. (Cheers.) '
D-^
V ,n ?
k Vi P 1 * 6 )
(Vfc.tye«>i
fa
o(
L do ri r
' '
, 'joIX 'Kl'wd l*|«'
styovfef—
rt/ 'tlje cheque kooK
tTHEIDROCGHT. WASTED
pisTßiors.
jTossee the fields slowly besoming desolate
and the stock crying out for food brings
teaiM to one’s eyes.
„ W. H. Fitch ktt,
President of the Methodist Church, Oct. 17
Wpfought' Qw (s^Kli^i^yJ
tad v>
. H&T w'on
O' O
id" |)^on
VilUiyJ 1 '
'UNIVERSITY FINANCES.
THE OOUNCJL PROCEEDS CAUTIOUSI?.
We are. in the fullest sense of »
word, beggars,*’ eaid John Madden, *• and |
beggars cannot b- choosers.”
:—"A r v°s+' b^ n^ or 7 iiTot]td
J°bn !
Before the prorogation it was practically
arranged that the House should meet in
May n;xt year, and sit until about the end
of September. Ministers therefore view
their leader’s declaration for a short recess
with alarm, and they say, "It’s all very
well for Mr. Barton ; he’s had his holiday,
and we want ours now.”
#elcJ) fro*? <
A ; —'-jfolfo jJeaX'r? -
"Hje toys V&vb*r 'ts '.. .
&i<k\oiArr) Conjt .Oo AgA» rj r kfs, P'et" tijl—
- ncVcr Ifnyor'e WorK it j life.
i\e fo^e
( yAofi fo|)ery “— Ga*>l" yfea
See yo«na. on tvjy
S?"
S uc t 'pef
k
im
IP
h 7A*’Vyev: > 'tkK.oo
" \ If • 4h>
M/y if"s 'lmpty!!
MELBOURNIAN A.


Key,
£3los,
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMEN AND MINERS.
ROTHERHAM SPECIAL MADE ENGLISH
LEVERS, Full Cap, Haud Finished, Extra
J ewelled W orks, Perfect Timekeeper, with Pure
Silver Cases, Dust and Water Tight, £3 10s.
Extra Quality, with Chronometer Balance,
£4 10s, £5, £5 10s, £6, £7, £8 ;
Solid Gold, £lO, £l5, £‘2o.
A written certificate for 3,4, and 5 years.
Try one ; you will not regret it.
Keyless,
£5.
Free-
trade
Prices.
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong-, Reliable WATERBURY WATCHES.
Long Wind, 8s 6d ;
New Short Wind, 10s ;
New Model, «*., 13s tid ;
Extra duality, f-plate, 18s (id and £l.
Silver, 35s ;
Gold, £2 15s.
The reputation of these Watches is a sufficient
guarantee of the reliability.
No
Advance
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Unrivalled non-magnet LEVER.
Perfecl Timekeeper, Screw Cases,
dust and water tight, 20s.
Solid Silver, 35s ; Double Case, £2.
A written Guarantee given with
each Watch.
20s.
Black or
Nickel,
30s.
t mu>v l »u ll yiii | ii„
.\ v \
k /'*/
€-N=*
A.IAUftDIRa tfgjlaiS GlORdii ~l
* Ist
t Mi
•: /
U'. I.
"H I!rr.iij',ni l iui
“ PLY-BACK CHRONOMETERS.'
Ply-back only. In Solid Nickel or Black, 30s ;
Extia duality, £2, £2 10s ; Split Seconds, £3 10s.
Pure Solid Silver, as above, £3, £6, £7, £B, and £lO ;
Solid Gold, £l5, £2O, £25, and £3O.
A written certificate for 2,3, 4,5, and 6 years.
TRY ONE.
Silver,
£5.
Solid
Silver,
£2 10s.
WALTHAM LEVERS.
We are Direct Buyers.
Pure Solid Silver Hunting Cases, Extra
Quality Movements,
£2los, £3, £8 10s, £4, and £5 ;
Gold Patent Cases, Walthams, £4 4s, £5 5s
Solid Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2los,
£l5, £2O, and £25.
8,4, 5, and 6 Years’ Guarantee.
Gold
Cased,
M 4s,
Solid Gold CHAIN (Single or Double), £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5. 15ct. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6,
£6 10s, £7, £B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
Gold Bar Amethyst BROOCH, 12s 6d.
Eng.ish Hall Marked.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Style 2-Bar Gold BROOCH,
Diamond and two Red Stones, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15et. 2-Bar Pure Diamond, Double Cut,
£2 ; with Ruby, 85s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Style, 15ct. Gold Pearl Set Buckle 2-Bar
BROOCH, 32s 6d. English Hall Marked.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Style, Gold BROOCH, Hall-marked,
Diamond and 2 Red Stones, 22s 6d.
Gold BROOCH, 2-Bar Diamond, with Four Red
or Blue Stones, 20a.
A. SAUNDEBS.
Diamond BBACELET, 15ct. Gold, three Pure Double Cut
Diamonds, with Safety Chain, £5.
m
Ladies’ Curb Gold
Chain, Snap Padlock,
255, 30s, 355, £2 ss,
£3; 15ct., £2 10s, £3,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6,
£7 10s, £B, £9, £lO.
10s extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Gold Eorget-Me-Not BROOCH,
English Hall-marked, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Our 2 Bird Gold BROOCH, 10s.
Very neat.
A. SAUNDERS (Registered).
Good-wish Gold BROOCH, 12s 6d ;
loot. Gold, 255.
No. 1.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Long MUFF CHAINS,
Hand Made, Extra Strong, £3, £3 10s, £4 ;
loot. Gold, £4los, £5, £6, £7 10s.
Price According to Strength.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bamboo Sold BRACELET, all the style, price according
to width, 255, 80s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £8 10s ;
15ct. Gold, £B, £4, £5, £6.
Very Pretty Gold BRACELET Diamond, Red, or Blue
Stones, £2 10s; 15ct. Gold, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Peace Offering' Gold Bird and Pearl Set
Leaf, 25s ;
loot. Gold, 32s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Motto Registered Gold “ Dinna Forget ”
BROOCH and Amethysts, 9ct. Gold, 17s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 30s ; 18ct. Gold, 355,
No. 2.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Long MUST CHAINS,
Hand Made. Extra Strong, £3, £3 10s, £4
15ct. Gold £4los, £5, £6, £7 10s.
Price According to Strength.
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Solid Gold Name BROOCH, 7s 6d;
with Raised Flowers each side (Any Name),
15ct. Gold, 15s. Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
loot. Gold Ivy and Knob BROOCH, 25s ;
9ct. Gold, smaller, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold 2-Heart Amethyst and Love Knot
BROOCH, 20?.
9111
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-Bar Diamond Double Cut
BROOCH, £2.
Bmmssm&xssmmm
No. 3.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Long MUFF CHAINS,
Hand Made, Extra Strong, £3, £3 10s, £4 •
15ct. Gold, £4 10s, £5, £6, £7 10s.
Price According to Strength.
A. .iUNDEKS.
Gold Sword and Pearl Spray BROOCH, with Diamond
Heart, 25s ; 15ct. Gold, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Peace Offering Twin Dove BROOCH,
with Enamelled Leaf, 17s 6d ;
loot. Gold, 255.
or
A. SAUNDERS.
loot. S-Bar Gold BROOCH, Pure Diamond,
Double Cut, £3 os. Very strong 1 .
Hi
A. SAUNDERS.
2-Bar English Hall-Marked Gold BROOCH,
Diamond-cut Amethyst, 20s;
15ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold, Hall-Marked, Forget-Me-Not
BROOCH, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Very Neat 15ct. Gold, Pearl, and Turquoise
BROOCH, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
High Grade -Ladies’ Solid Silver LEVERS,
Full Jewelled, f-plate,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, and £4 10s.
In Solid Gold, £o 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £8 10s, 10 guineas,
£l2 10s, £l5, and £2O.
Guaranteed 3, 4, 6, and 6 years.
A. SAUNDERS.
loot. Solid Gold Pure
Pearl STAR, £3.
Ollier styles, £4, £5,
£6, £9, £lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
Any Name.
Secret Name Gold
LOCKET. £1 ;
Pearl and Red
Stone Set,
loot. Gold, 308.
MIZPAH
CHAKM,
4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Beautifully Chased, 9ct. Gold,
large size LINKS, 22s (jd.
Plain, 21s, or with Initials,
nicely Chased, 22s 6d.
loot. Gold, £2; Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
(Registered).
Gold LINKS, 20s
loot. Gold, 32s 6d
Silver and Gold, 10s;
all Silver, ss.
m£T CALL AND SEE OUE
JEWELLERY EXHIBITION.
A SPLENDID DISPLAY.
OE SEND POE OUE
1902 COMPLETE ILLUSTEATED BOOK,
POST FEEE ANYWHEEE.
Photo Locket
A. SAUNDERS.
New Photo. Gold
LOCKET and CHAIN,
255, 30s, £2 ;
screw top, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
OUR PEACE RING.
18ct. Solid Gold,
Diamond and 2 Rubies
or Sapphires, £2.
Extra Heavy, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Sold Gold Opal Band,
17s 6d ;
3 Opals, 22s 6d ;
loot. Gold, 30s;
3 Opals, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 2cs, 30s, £2,
£2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5 ;
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
ALL GUARANTEED.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Solid Gold Opal
DINKS, 30s ;
15ct. Gold, £2los. Extra strong
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold LINKS, very pretty, 12s 6d.
Large size, 15s and 20s.
Silver, 3s 6d and 4s 6d.
18et. Gold,
pure five Double-cut
Diamonds, £5 ;
3 liubies or Sapphires
and 2 Diamonds,
£3los and £4 10s.
Larger Diamonds,
£ti, £7los, £lO, to £5O.
fj! !i l ili ! j! !: ! | iii{l![
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, 5 Opals,
J-Hoop,
£2, £2 10s, £3,
£3los.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Solid Gold,
Extra Strong and
Ilea's y, one or three
Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, 2 Hearts,
Diamond,
and Ruby, 35s ;
2 Diamonds, £2 ss.
With Name,
Band KINGS.
9ct. Solid Gold, 12s Od,
15s ; loot. Gold, 20s,
255,; 18et. Gold, 255,
30s, 355, £2.
For Size, cut bole in Cardboard.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keepers.—9et. Solid Gold, 5s 6d
7s 6d, 10s each; 15ct. Gold, 15s; extra heavy, 255; IBct. Gold, 20s
extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Quality of Gold and Finish First-class
A. SAUNDERS,
SAVE 25 to 50
PER CENT.
LEADING ART JEWELLER,
SAVE 25 to 50
PER CENT.
815 & 817 GEORGE-STREET,
Nearly Opposite
Railway Station,
SYDNEY


PUBLIC NOTICE
To Frustrate Base and Worthless Imitations, FISHER and
COMPANY have registered the word “ ALOK ” as a TRADE
nARK. In the future their Famous and Original Tonic (freshly
prepared from the celebrated KOLA NUTS) will be known as
“ ALOK.” Any Bottle without this word cannot be the
GENUINE ARTICLE.
FISHER & COMPANY have expended over £20,000 in
placing their Famous Tonic “ ALOK ” on the AUSTRALIAN
flarket. Imitators spend comparatively nothing and care not
what they sell, so beware of IMITATIONS.
ASK FOR “ALOK,” AND HAVE NO OTHER.
ALOK”
The Most Famous of
all Modern Tonics^
Strengthens the Heart,
Removes Headache,
Cures Indigestion,
Creates Appetite.
W. P„ WILSON, Esq., late owner of St. Albans, Geelong, Victoria, wrote the following,
one of tLe many esteemed orders received from the same gentleman:
“ Broken Hill Chambers, 31 Queen-street, Melbourne, 11th January, 1890.
“ Messrs. Fisher and Co.
“ Dear Sirs,—Oblige by sending a dozen of your ‘ MIGHTY ALOK’ to me at St.
Albans, Geelong, by ss. Courier, and a dozen to Robert Brough, Esq., 2 Parlia-
ment-place, Melbourne. “Very truly, WM. R. WILSON.”
“ Send a case of a dozen out to Andrew Macgregor, Esq., Peterleigh,
Essendon. “ W. R. WILSON.”
“ Send another case to W. P. Macgregor, Esq., Ruaru, 102 Albert-street, East
Melbourne. Send account to this office. “W. R. WILSON.”
6C
Every Horning and Before Each Meal drink . . .
“MIGHTY ALOK”
‘ ALOK” Makes you Eat and Makes you Strong.
IT CLEANSES THE PALATE, CLEARS THE HEAD, STRENGTHENS the HEART,
AND REGULATES THE STOMACH, LIVER, AND KIDNEYS.
IT SAVES DOCTORS’ BILLS.
UNINTOXICATING, but containing more SUSTAINING POWER THAN ALCOHOL.
EVERY HOTEL, WITH SOOA WATER, 6d. PER GLASS.
All Chemists and Grocers 2s. 6d. and 3s. 6d. per bottle.
Be sure and get the Genuine Article.
ASK FOR “ALOE”
either in the “Usual” or “Extra
Bitter ” form. Both contain the same
wonderful therapeutical Virtues.
It will certainly.
PICK-
O TT-TT
The Great Morning Drink at Every Hotel, with Soda
Water, 6d. per Glass.
& <J»
_ t^P
Sf
&
v-
? qQ
t-.-
i
m
&
*2
«_>
MADAHE ALBANI,
The Queen of Song, and friend of her late Majesty-- Queen Victoria.
What iTadame Albani says about “ALOK,” flighty “ALOK.”
Messrs. FISHER and CO. Hotel Australia, Sydney, March 29, 1898.
Dear Sirs, —I shall be obliged if you will send me two bottles offyour preparation, “ ALOK.” lam
very glad to tell you that this Tonic was of great service to me on the sea, and in helping me to recover from
the effects of my long voyage. It is of great benefit in stopping sea-sickness, and of great assistance to
anyone who has FATIGUING work to tlo. I am, yours very truly, G. ALBANI GYE.
All Hotels, with Soda Water, 6d. per glass ; all Chemists, 2/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
ALOK
AIOK
ALOK
GAZE HARD AND WATCH THE RINGS TURN INSIDE OUT.
In the MORNING—Before
taking Fisher & Co/s
Mighty “Alok.”
Australian Agencies:
Adelaide —S'. H. Faulding & Co.
Brisbane —Elliott Bros., Ltd.; Taylor
and Colledge.
Perth —P. H. Paulding & Co.
Rockhampton —Walter Reid & Co., Ltd.
Broken Hill —South Australian Brewing
Company.
New Zealand:
Auckland —Seegner, Laugguth & Co.
Wellington —Castendyk <k Eocke.
Kempthorne, Prosser and
Co.
Christchurch— James Shand & Co.
Dunedin— w. Scoular & Co.
Sole Manufacturers :
FISHER AND CO.,
Wholesale and Retail Chemists and Druggists,
337 George St., SYDNEY.
Melbourne Agents : Messrs. Taylor Ferguson & Co., Flinders Lane.
In the AFTERNOON—After taking
Fisher and Co/s Mighty 44 Alok/'


Hotel
Australia—
RATES:
12s. 6d. per Day,
and upwards.
This beautiful hotel is fireproof from tower to
basement.
For cuisine, comfort, style, appointments, and
perfection of attendance, The Australia is the
first hotel of the Southern Hemisphere.
It is Sydney’s great summer hotel, being
situated on a lofty site, and catching every
breeze. Visitors to The Australia sleep in a cool,
pure atmosphere.
J. URE SMITH (Late of Menzies’), Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
HOW TO KEEP COOL.
We strongly recommend all who suffer
from the heat to add a few drops of Condy’s
Fluid to the Daily Bath or Foot Bath.
A Condy’s Fluid Bath imparts a most
delightful sensation of coolness, freshness
and purity, it invigorates the body and
braces the nerves. The strengthening and
cooling, effects are Simply Magical. Tired
or Tender feet are instantly relieved. Book
on bottle contains full directions.
Condy’s Fluid is sold by all Chemists
throughout the British Empire. Beware
of substitutes. Insist on having “ Condy’s
Fluid.” Condy & Mitchell, of London,
England, are the only Makers and their
name and address is at foot of label.
“Don’t shout”
I hear you. 1 can hear now
as well as anybody.
••• How?’ Oh some-
thing new— The Wilson." 1
Common-sense Ear--;
Drum. I've a pair in my
ears now. you can't see them
they’re invisible. I wouldn't
know I had them in myself,
that I hear all right."
k The Wilson Ear-Drum is
really a substitute for the
.working parts of the
natural ear. Has no
wire. Invisible, easy to ad
just, comfortable Totally
different from any other de-
vice Descriptive pamphlet sent upon request
.1. CWAtHlgff. 229-231 Collins. &l„ Well*.
SPECTACLES
—FOR—
DEFECTIVE
VISION, r.
COUNTRY READERS
who cannot visit us
personally, we send,
Post Free to any ad-
dress, with full in-
structions and Price List, ourmarvellously-accurate
and popular SELF SICHT-MEASURINC PATENT.
By its use you can Test your own sight and de-
termine for yourself the style and quality of the
glasses you may need. Write for it to—
H. A* BARRACLOUGH, Optician,
371 Georgre-st., Sydney, next A.J.S. Bank.
■
POLITICAL
POINTS
N.S.W. Political Labor League, very jus-
tifiably, wants to pick a bone with the Labor
party in Parliament over the “counting-out” of
Griffith’s Free Education Bill. Why were not the
Labor members present to “ keep a House ” ?
N.S.W. Estimates for 1902-3 provide only
a trifle over £3OOO to meet pensions to the survi-
vors of the four Churches that were State-fed
in anti-abolition days. C.E. gets £1531; R.C.,
£950; Presbyterian, £300; and Wesleyan, £3OO.
The exodus from Victoria to N.S.W.,
about which so much was said, was accompanied
by a silent exodus the other way. In 1891 there
were 19,792 persons born in N.S.W. residing in
Victoria. In 1901 the Cornstalk residents in
Victoria numbered 22,417.
The English Tory Govt, is going the right
way about causing grave trouble in Ireland.
Cabled on Monday that it had arranged in the
House of Commons to block any discussion of the
reoently-revived coercion laws. Suppressing the
ventilation of a grievance doesn’t end it; sitting
on the safety-valve doesn’t ensure the safety of
the boiler.
Victorian
Premier
Irvine got
into Par-
liament
originally
as a land-
taxer, and
he remain-
ed one till
the prospect
of getting
office b y
pandering to
the Tory
party rose be-
fore him. By
making the
land - tax an
all-round im-
post of Id. in the
£, as it is in N.S.W., Irvine
could get at least £lOO,OOO
towards his deficit and save
his alleged principles at
the same time. Appar-
ently he is willing to
pay £lOO,OOO in
order to lose his
principles.
In July, 1895,
the Victorian Minis-
ter of Railways, in
reply to a deputation,
said that squatters’ land gave
poor returns to the railways. The annual
railway revenue from 10,000 acres of such
land was only £95, while the same area of
farmers’ land brought in £3500. This means that
for railway purposes, whereas farmers pay 7s. an
acre in a year, squatters pay only 2|d. an acre.
Plainly, the cutting up of the big squattages is
one way of reducing the railway deficit.
If the Bent-Irvine Ministry had any states-
manlike ideas of economy it would start a
collier-service to bring coal from N.S.W. to the
Victorian railways. A shipping combine at
present bleeds the Vic. Govt, freely on freights,
charging about 9s. a ton; half of that would be a
fair thing, and would represent a saving of many
thousands annually.
The Federal Government is always being
severely reproached for extravagance, but every
time it tries to save a little money the epithets
aimed at it are dreadful to listen to. Last week
it endeavored to economise by refusing to carry
shipping telegrams gratis, and the language used
about murderer Tisler was nothing compared to
what the economy-and-retrenchment papers said
to it.
Honest and fair criticism of the Federal
administration is a thing absolutely unknown to
the Sydney freetrade papers. By the D.T. in
particular every point of grievance is thrust home,
not to the Federal Government but to Federation.
Sample from that linen-drapers’ organ in regard to
some trumpery point about shipping telegrams :
The term Federation is fast becoming in business
circles here synonymous with artificial commercial em-
barrassments, and the harassing control of the post-office
by Mr. Drake finds its parallel in Mr. Kingston’s arbitrary
and incommoding administration of the Customs Depart-
ment.
If the Federal Government appoints. all
the gentlemen who are anxious to represent the
Commonwealth at the great Hindu debasement
before of a power which is now bleed-
ing India white, it can send 500 men. If it wishes
to preserve a correct sense of dignity it will send
not one. Australia should have no sympathy
with the abjectness of a conquered and servile race
before the throne of its oppressor.
Rumored that Queensland Govt, has gone
so far op the path of “secession” as to formally
complain to the British Cabinet of the tyranny of
the Commonwealth legislation, “ especially in
regard to Kanaka legislation.” Said that Mr.
Barton, in reply, pointed to the fact that the anti-
Kanaka Bills were passed with the approval of a
majority not only of Australians, but of Queens-
landers. And then nothing happened.
More George Reid :
If the revenue tariffists win at the next general elec-
tion, there will be no need of preferential duties. Pre-
ferential duties are really a development of a Protectionist
policy. When we in N.S.W. were a Freetrade colony it
was not necessary to talk of having preferential duties on
British goods. We simply had no duties.
Which, from the fat gentleman who collected
£1,300,000 a year in customs duties, practically all
of them protective, is distinctly good.
The Victorian Government has decided to
get a railway manager, regardless of cost, from
England, Canada, or the U.S. Why England
was included Heaven only knows. In England
there is an enormously larger population for each
mile of line to supply traffic ; the charges
are as high as in Victoria, and are about the
highest in Europe; the railways pay worse
than in Victoria; and the clamor of shareholders
for reform, for a complete alteration of methods,
and for the repair of their fading dividends, is
deafening. In fact, as far as profits are concerned,
the English railway system is about as much run-
down as that of Victoria.
A PATRIOT.
KINDLY STRANGER (to weeping drwnk) : “What
are you crying for? ”
W. DRUNK: “See ’ere (hie) mister, it ain't me
private troubles I'm a weepin' over (’ic), but
this pore blanky country is gain' straight to
'ell” (sobs bitterly.)
Hobart Mercury, in common with most
of the papers addicted to barracking for Private
Enterprise and deploring the “baneful socialistic
tendencies ” of the age, is braying very hard at
the Federal Government’s attempt to discourage
deadheadism by the abolition of free shipping
wires. Now what’s the matter with the shipping
companies and the daily papers providing these
wires by private enterprise and dispensing with
“baneful socialistic” support!
Whatever George Reid meant by his Yes-
No-Yes letter to the Protestant sectarians, they
took it as a definite pledge to Orangeism. Extract
from a “lodge” report:
When he touched upon Mr. G. Reid’s recent conversion,
their enthusiasm nearly went out of bounds.
Rev. Dill-Macky, by the way, tells Mr. Reid
straight that the bloody-shirt adherents don’t
intend to go over to his Freetrade party; the
Freetrade party must come to them.
An attempt was made in N.S.W. Assembly
to abolish the votes (£4OO in all) for C. of E. and
R.C. chaplains to the asylums, and some com-
plaint was made about “State-aid to religion.”
But paying a chaplain for services rendered isn’t
State-aid to religion, while the exemption of
churches from taxation is. That exemption also
is an insidious, underhand, surreptitious and
wholly objectionable aid, inasmuch as it doesn’t
appear in the estimates, and so escapes observa-
tion.
Leadership of N.S.W. “Secession” party
is between Mr. Eden George and Mr. R. D.
Meagher. Latter, last week, tried to move the
adjournment of the House to call attention to
“Hie vexatious and harassing administration of
the Federal laws in N.S.W,” but was knocked
out on a point of order. Judging by the amount
of fuss made just now, it would seem as if there
had never before been honest and impartial
administration of the Customs Dept, in N.S.W.
All that Mr. Kingston has done is to “ change the
venue” of customs cases from the Ministerial
backstairs to the judicial bench.
SHOVING THE OLD RELIC ALONG.
“On Thursday week last the annual Congress of British Trades
Unions, sitting in London, rejected a proposal for the reference of
trades disputes to compulsory arbitration courts by a three to one
majority, the delegates against it representing 961.000 trades
unionists, and those in favor of it 303,000. This is the third year in
succession that the congress has emphatically declared that
organised labor in Great Britain prefers to keep the settlement of
trade disputes in its own hands.”
“You don't seem to be getting on very fast —try my jigger."
“No, mister; even this ’ere goes too fast for this blessed
old track.”
The S.M. Herald gravely stated in a
recent leading article that Protection “had cost
Victoria the foremost rank among the Australian
States.” There is a specially drivelling Freetrade
legend that it is Victoria’s duty to maintain more
people and grow more produce on 88,000 sq. miles
than N.S.W. does on 311,0005 q. miles, and if it
can’t do that the case for Protection is Lost. The
fact that Victoria supports three times as many
people as N.S.W. in proportion to its size counts
for nothing.
Mr. Watkins, M.H.R., at the Newcastle
eight hours’ demonstration the other day, gave
the reason—an excellent one—why the Labor
party insisted on the wholesale lopping of the
military estimates. Many people were curious to
know, he said, how the lump sum was arrived at.
Well, as it took not more than £600,000 to pay
for the defence forces in six separate States,
managed by six separate administrations, it
should not take more to pay for them when
administered under one head.
A Tory majority now rules S.A. Assembly,
and the Jenkins Ministry recently allowed
Darling and his associates to cut thousands off its
expenditure estimates. It is generally understood
that there is actually a secret alliance between
Ministry and Opposition. Jenkins, Attorney-
General Gordon and Treasurer Butler have always
been strong opponents of land-grant railways, yet
they have now fathered the most audacious poli-
tical swindle of recent times, and this practically
at the bidding of their Tory bosses. How South
Australian democrats miss Kingston !
A Federal Labor Conference is to be held
-in December, when, among other things, it is pro-
posed to resolve in favor of old age pensions.
But there seems to be nothing on the notice-paper
about resolving as to how the money is to be
raised. Federal old-age pensions are a most com-
mendable idea, but no party should give its solid
vote for them unless it is prepared with an equally
solid vote for some feasible method of finding the
money. The easy, lazy, friendly tendency to vote
money away and leave the rest to Providence is
the bane of many well-meaning parties.
Sydney Telegraph wants to know if the
trade of the Northern Rivers is to be lost to
N.S. W. As Queensland has no intention of
trying to annex that portion of N.S.W. territory
it is hard to see how any portion of the trade will
be lost to N.S.W. What the Telegraph meant
to yelp was that the trade of the Northern
Rivers would be lost to Sydney. Mistaking
Sydney for all N.S.W. has been the Telegraph’s
blunder right through, and every time there is an
election, or a convention, or any public movement,
the same weary old error lands the journal in the
gutter.
The arrival of Premier Barton in Queens-
land, after his coronation trip, gave the Philp
Government an irresistible opportunity of exhibit-
ing its meanness of spirit. The anti-colored-
labor legislation of the Federal Govt, has cut
Philp and his crew to the quick, and Philp refused
to travel to Pinkenba —a mile or two from Brisbane
—to give the returned Australian Premier a hand-
shake and a friendly greeting. Minister Leahy
—who jumps every position which suggests suc-
cession to Philp—was the only Q. Minister on the
wharf. The Mongolian black-laborites, headed
by the Courier, are laying, strong and deep, the
foundations of another great victory for White
Australia at next Federal elections. The acri-
monious hostility of the Kanakaites carried Drake
into third position at last Senatorial contest; the
same influence will probably put him on top next
time.
Barton and the other Premiers in London
seem to have carried their complaisance to a dan-
gerous length :
No resolution was put to the Conference on the subject
of the land reserve forces, but there was a general readi-
ness on the part of the Prime Ministers to endeavor . . .
to assimilate . . . the forces within their limits to the
Imperial forces, at any rate to such an extent as would
enable them to be brigaded together when a national
emergency arose.
That’s how Toby puts it, and it is so cunningly
worded that its real sense is not at once apparent.
If an Australian regiment is in a British brigade,
there will be a British general with a British
staff, and all the British colonels will be senior to
the Australian colonel, who, therefore, can never
hope to succeed to the command of the brigade.
The blawsted colonial must be kept in his place !
lii the Federal House of
Reps, it is the custom —or rather
it is the practice of a number of
members —to repeat the Lord’s
Prayer after the Speaker. In the
other House the Senators listen in
silence. The Reps’, custom recalls
the old Scotch parish school, which
always opened with supplication
and the Lord’s Prayer. The latter
was generally ehorussed in haste,
for the first morning caning came
immediately after it, and the
master was in a hurry to whack
somebody.
About once a month, Laun-
ceston (Tas.) Examiner girds up a
rather inferior set of loins, and
wades in to explain how “Labor
legislation ” has ruined the indus-
tries of Maoriland, N.S.W., and
Victoria. Tasmania, as a place
with no Labor legislation, ought
naturally to be black with the
smoke of huge and prosperous in-
dustries, but just when the Ex-
aminer might be expected to start
pointing them out, it changes the
subject suddenly. This makes its
wail unfinished and unsatisfactory.
The most valuable ide a
brought back from the Coronation
trip seems to have been fetched by
Austin Chapman, M.H.R. “One
thing that has been impressed on
me,” says Chapman, after viewing
Washington and Ottawa, “is the
absolute necessity for never parting with the land
in fee simple in our Federal territory.” To bring
back an idea like that is better than dining with
16 dukes.
N.S.W. Opposition leader Carruthers’
speech at Burwood consisted mostly of fervid ex-
hortations to “close up the ranks’’—whatever
that may mean—an announcement that his
particular gang is no longer “The Great Freetrade
and Liberal Party,” and will henceforth run under
the title of “The Liberal and Reform Party”
and a promise of “ reform, economy, and stable
government.” That nothing was said about “the
resources of this great country” was the most
creditable part of the oration, which didn’t mean
anything in particular except that the outs were
very hungry and were quite tired of sharpening
their teeth.
Even the individuals that the Irvine
Government put up in the Vic. House of Land-
lords to move and second the Address-in-Reply
gave the show away in a very crude fashion.
Baillieu said that the 48 Landlords “were not
going to yield to popular clamor.” Williams
said : “We are not going to pass the ratepayers’
roll for the franchise; we are not going to pass
adult suffrage.” Melville said he was against the
reform proposals. Old man M’Culloch was against
any large reform. Embling wanted old age pen-
sions abolished, and things in general rejected
wholesale. Cuthbert didn’t see why the property
qualification for members should be altered.
But the unkindest cut of all was that the M’s.L.C.
talked of the Irvine crowd off-handedly as a Con-
servative Government, and asked in wonder why
on earth it pretended to want to reform anything..
The vote by which N.S.W Assembly
stopped the pensions payable to certain retired
military officers looks a disreputable proceeding.
It was, if not the actual repudiation of a bargain,
yet so near to it that the difference isn’t percep-
tible. The act of repudiation was done by a com-
bination of two parties, one of which wanted to-
st op the pensions entirely, while the other said
that the Federal Government would pay them if
the State didn’t. One crowd sought to save
money, and the other thought it had found a way
of annoying the Commonwealth Parliament. Of
course, if the Commonwealth paid the pensions
it would simply charge them to N.S.W., so there
would be no real saving; but it is questionable if
it can legally pay them. It has taken over the
military establishment, but the battered and
retired veterans are no longer on the establish-
ment.
A big effort is being made to discredit the
Bill Lyne Defence administration in the eyes of
Mr. Barton. Significant signs of a rift in the
lute from one issue of a daily paper :
On the journey down from Albury the Prime Minister
and the Minister for Defence travelled in the gor-
geous ducal car. Mr. Lyne occupied a compartment
in an ordinary carriage in company with one or two
Tasmanian friends. . . . Mr. Malcolm M'Eacharn, M.H.R.,
who is a volunteer colonel, made some allusion to the
growing dissatisfaction with the defence service, and
obliquely hinted that Mr. Lyne was not altogether
free from responsibility. Mr. John Forrest, in his reply,
declined the bait.
Mr. Barton may be persuaded by Major-General
Hutton and others into reversing much of Minister
Lyne’s policy; but in doing so he will fly directly
in the face of Australian public opinion, and
Mr. Barton should recognise that he hasn’t the
physique for such a feat.
In the Victorian railway department more
than one-third of the staff now consists of ‘ ‘ tem-
porary employees.” These are mostly the friends
and relatives of politicians too incapable to pass
the examinations and get on the permanent staff,
and shunted in by corrupt influences. A very
large number are illegally in the service, for by
law no man shall be employed as a supernumerary
longer than six months ; if at the end of that time
he can’t qualify for a permanent job, he must go.
Bent can clear out all the alleged superfluous rail-
way employees simply by refusing to act illegally
any longer, and he can also have the satisfaction
of knowing that the men who will go are the
incapables, and, at the same time, the ones with
influential political friends to find them new jobs.
Yet, strangely enough, Bent, who is a whirlwind
of activity in other directions, doesn’t whirl in this
direction worth a straw.


THE CALLAGHAN BOOT
FOR LADIES.
POST
FREE.
' ' - ;
V , J
.
■ i Ml
isSIPtISK
'
mm
:
H
DUTY
FREE.
WHY DENY
YOURSELF
ABSOLUTE
FOOT
COMFORT ?
We can fill orders exactly, througl
our Mail Order Department, for this
very stylish Boot. It is made of fine
American Glace Kid, with Patent Caps.
15/11—Post and Duty Free, 16/6.
“Messes. CALLAGHAN & SON,
“Dear Sirs,- 1 am very pleased with your Boots; they are a perfect fit, and I
shall be very pleased, when ordering again, to get the same kind from you.—Yours truly,
“July 6, 1902.
“ C.H.E.
“ Braid wood.”
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 ceorge st., Sydney.
Liver Complaint,
Indigestion,
..AND..
General Weakness
ALL SUCCUMB TO
VITADATSO
„ August 19th, 1901.
Mr. S. A. PALMER,
Agent for Webber’s VITADATIO.
Sjl;— l wish t 0 add my testimony to the value of
viiADAriO. For over five years I was a great sufferer
from Liver Complaint, Indigestion and General Weak-
ness, I was unable to follow my usual occupation, and for
years had been under several medical men ; I have also
taken courses of almost all the well-known patent medi-
cines without any beneficial results. Whilst living at
Marlborough, about two years ago, I heard of the wonders
being performed through the agency of VITADATIO, and
after making enquiries, I decided to give it a trial, which
I did, with the result that at the present time I am fully
restored to health, and feel it my duty to let others know
what VITADATIO has done for me.
I will be glad to enquiries about my case
personally, or by letter, which must have stamped
addressed envelope enclosed.
I remain, yours gratefullv
WILLIAM STEWART DRUMMOND.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The Price of Medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
Do You
Wear a
Truss ?
If So,
TRY
Denyer's Elastic Truss*
IT IS THE VERY BEST.
No Discomfort to Wearer. Suits any Rupture.
P "°- S "|7/6 Sinslb ; 25/- Double.
Send Measure and P.O. Order.
RRfIS 281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
OBWO. opp Hunter St.
AND AT MELBOURNE.
DENYER
Newman's
Antiseptic Pastilles.
The Best for all Affections of the Throat
try THEM. ■■ PRICE—ONE SHILLING.
S. HARRIS, M. P. S., Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Telephone 2288, 82 KING-ST., SYDNEY.
At Dawn and Dusk;
V. J. Daley. In handsome cloth,
with portrait. Price ss. postage, 4d.
Latest form of See-O’Sullivan economy in
N.S.W. is the spending of £BOOO on a house
named “Tresco,” at Elizabeth Bay. When
Garden Island was handed over to the Imperial
authorities for a naval depot, N.S.W. received in
exchange several properties in various parts of the
State. A condition of the bargain was that house
accommodation for the naval officer in charge of
the island should be provided. So what Mr. See
calls a “very satisfactory arrangement,” has been
OA^ lv f? spending £BOOO ! Meanwhile, nearly
800 old men are still allowed to herd together in an
asylum,” which will one day burn out in 20
n mutes
Apropos that cable from Somaliland.
Strange that whenever a British force of a couple
of thousand drilled Asiatics strikes a snag in the
shape of several times as many fanatical savages
armed with reasonably modern weapons, the
cable liar at once reports that a Russian or Aus-
trian officer is advising the niggers’ naked, brown-
skinned tactician. There’s a similar fetish in
.Russia, where any good shooting by Russia’s
enemiesis always put down to English artillery-
men trained on a mythical ship called the Alert.
Ao white European race cares to acknowledge
that the Asiatic or African, no matter what the
odds, can beat the lordly white man on his own.
lhe Russians swore that the destructively-
accurate artillery fire at Tientsin was the work of
Europeans, _ whom they could distinctly see
through their glasses ; and yet, in the long run it
was proved that it was the work of Li Hung
Lhang s artillery brigade.
The Veterinarian.
I GALWAYS
is GIVES YOU*
mw
The
Standard
Preparations
of ... .
SALVITIS
RESTORING AND CONSERVING
THE HEALTH OF
FOR
Horses Pigs
Cattle Poultry
Sheep Dogs
SHOULD
BE TRIED !
Used by Leading Stockowners.
SALVITIS INDEX of DISEASES
To be had of Storekeepers, etc.
Direct Agents for New South Wales—
E. RICH & COfIPANY, Ltd., SYDNEY
A young woman, recently operated on in
Wangaratta (Vie.) hospital, for an abdominal
abscess that was constantly re-forming, was found
to have a bone —2in. long, and as thick as a match
—embedded in her liver. It is thought that at
some time the patient swallowed a fish-bone,
which penetrated the stomach, and became cal-
lous. The young woman has left the hospital
cured after years of suffering, thanks to this sur-
gical discovery.
The day “Mister James” Fairfax came
home, his Sydney Morning Herald inadver-
tently printed a reference to the “depressing
effect of the National Anthem.” And the
next issue of a publication issued from his
office printed, again inadvertently, two pictures
in such a way that, when a sheet was held
up to the light, an objectionable effect might
be imagined. There seems to be in every city a
number of people with leisure enough and silly
obscenity enough to go through the illustrated
papers and study their pages upside-down, side-
ways, under a magnifying-glass, and as trans-
parencies, to search out something which will
tickle their filthy minds; if an indecency can
be construed out of a picture by any means, almost
everybody hears of it within 24 hours of publica-
tion.
King Seddon is most mindful of the small
things that make for successful advertising. At
Hobart, the returning Maorilander hadn’t time to
land, as the Tongariro only put in at midnight for
a few tons of coal, sailing again soon after day-
break. But the morning papers had a grateful
message from Seddon thanking and praising
Hobart Hospital authorities for their kindness to
returning Maoriland soldiers. That an occasional
M.L. “ return ” cohentingenter had stayed a day
or two at the hospital had been forgotten by
Hobart folks, but the artful thanks “knocked
’em,” and Richard may have the freedom of the
Cascade Brewery any time he drifts to Tas.
A year or two ago Vic. Government
bought Wando Vale and Walmer estates, and
settled a number of men on them at prices which
attracted 10 applicants for every block. Now the
successful settlers are pressing Government for a
remission of the interest on arrears of payment,
and, in addition, an extension of the time—3o
years—in which they agreed to pay the purchase
money. Of such is the class of Kyabram—anxious
that the State should rob others so that it may
with profit rob the State.
An Author’s Telling Letter.
The well-known Manx author, Mr. C. Frederick
Wilson, who, under the pen-name “ Max Fax,”
has written “The Missing'Will,” “A Woman’s
Life,” “His Own Enemy,” “Brothers,” “Trump
Cards,” “Convict's Daughter,” and “Love and
Life,” has sent the following to the proprietors of
Bile Beans for Biliousness :
Gentlemen.—
“ 1 should like to inform you that your Bile
Beans have done me a wonderful amount of good.
I was in the South of England with an opera all
last winter, and scarcely a day passed but what I
suffered terrible agony. In the end I became so
bad that I felt I must terminate my engagement
and rest, as a short time after meals I began
to swell with indigestion, the pain being unbear-
able. I returned home no better, and continued to
suffer acutely. Eventually I met a friend, an
officer on the Medic. He said, ‘ Why don’t you
try Bile Beans?’ and showed me your advertise-
ment. I tried them, and the result was amazing.
lam now as well as ever 1 was in my life. Per-
sonally, I am convinced of the excellency of Bile
Beans, and if anyone doubts my case, let them
write to me personally, or, better still, give me a
call. You can make full use of this letter in any
way useful to others.”*
Yours respectfully.
PHOTOS
Models from Life, Beautiful Stereo-
scopies, etc. List with 100 Minia-
ture and 3 Cabinet size photos.
5s. P.O.C. or stamps.
RECKNAGEL NACHF, Munich, 1 Brieffach, Germany.
Toilet (Otto) Vinolia Soap has
been examined by bacteriologists,
who report that it contains no
bacteria whatever. Vinolia is
Safest for the Complexion, Toilet,
Nursery and Bath.
m
sG
The
co 3
CORSETS
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦ i
The Recognised Standard
Corsets
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦*
LATEST SPECIALTY
. STRAIGHT FRONT
- NOUVELLE FORM
Obtainable from Leading
, Drapers Everywhere.
Avoid Inferior Imitations, and see that
'dach pair bears the Manufacturer’s “Trade
Mark 55 on band inside, as above.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
mm
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
C#>
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
nxr.s/w.
(Qont deplete DJI. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEREAGH ST. f *7^.
1 SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
’—Tins—,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - • 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. 3 F. Burns, Chairman ; lion. O. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Millbr.
Accumulated Funds, £2,595,870.
Policies issued 88,299—assuring £26,826,380.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,767,115.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
*l9 & *2l COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
The Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 900 ... £350,000
Royal Bank of Queensland
* LIMIT1SI).
CAPITAL PAID-UP £451,307
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 181,859
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 56,000
£689,166
Head Office-. BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Enwn. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Queensland Smelting jjompg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Mary borough.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street. Melbourne.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £lOOO to £15,000, on City,
Town and Suburban Properties,
and £2OOO to £25,000 on BROAD ACRES,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright &Co.), Hon. John See, Lt.-001. Burns (Burns,
Philp & 00., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlanu ; Brisbane, K. Wilson ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australia,
131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Bquitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,500,000
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
E. W. Knox, Esq.
Auditors :
W. L. Docker, Esq. Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H S
Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout; the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (used in Company’s
business) £9576 13 4
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq. ;
0. M. Officer, ltsq. ; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Managei
Shipping.
HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West&Sooth Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
warrnambool
Tyrian, Friday, October 31, 5 p.m.
Konoowarra, Monday, Nov. 3, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer Early.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer Early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 1, 2 p.m.
Gabo, Tuesday, November 4, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 8, 2 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 1, 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 8, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot of King-street.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
MORAVIAN
AUSTRALASIAN
SOPHOCLES
A. Simpson
T. F. Spalding ...
H. A. Schleman
Noon, Nov. 14.
Noon, Dec. 5
Noon, Deo. 26.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. £55 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. £3l 10s .. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Palgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
Huddart, Parker & (Jo’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
AMERICA
CANADA
EUROPE
A.KTD
X 3XT E
via
San Francisco,
California.
NEW
SERIES
OP
EXCURSIONS
TO THE
RIVIERA
OF
AMERICA.
FIRST-CLASS THROUGHOUT,
COSTS £6O.
Covering Beturn Passages, Steamer and Bail, Hotel
Expenses in San Francisco, and Hotel Del Monte,
Southern California, about Ten Days’ stay in America,
with liberty to remain longer. Steamers leave as
follows:
TgIHE Directors of the PERPETUAL
JL TRUSTEE COMPANY, Limited,
Sydney, have TRUST FUNDS to LEND
in sums from £3OO to £50,000 on security of
revenue-producing City and Suburban Properties
or Country Broad Acres, at from 4 per cent.
Special facilities given for payments in reduction
without fine or notice.
United Co.
(LIMITED.)
Head Office:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
Marine Eisks
ture, etc. Bents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Hates very Low,
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
°“T No. 56 ACETYLENE CAS Catalogue
is the MOST COMPLETE
and COMPREHENSIVE
ever issued.
Tells all about the Best
ACETYLENE CAS GENER-
ATORS, LAMPS, and
everything in connection
with ACETYLENE.
Nearly 400 of our
Reliable Automatic
Acetylene Gas
Generators
in daily use.
Large Stocks of the
Best
Carbide
of Calcium
Quotations on application.
James MARTIN & GO. J Nr. King-st., Sydney.
EVERY WOMAN
S 3
m
is interested and should know
about the wonderful
Marvel Whirling Spray
The new Vaginal Syringe.
Injection and Suction. The best,
safest and most convenient.
i. It Cleanses Instantly,
If your druggist cannot
supply the MARVEL,
accept no other, but write us for
Illustrated Book, sent free
sealed. It gives price by mail,
particulars and directions invalu-
able to ladies. Endorsed by Physicians.
MARVEL CO., Times Building, N. Y.
Sole Australasian Agents—
The Marvel Co. of Australia,
(Box 623 G.P.0.) CA/IDEN BUILDINGS,
418 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Medical.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED
Eye Lotion.
Sold Everywhere.
TAKE KTO OTHER.
THE GREAT
/ OVERSEA )
l OVERLAND /
HIGHWAY
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM,
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, and AMERICA.
The NEWEST, LARGEST (6000 Tons each), FASTEST,
and ONLY TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS engaged in
the TRANS-PACIFIC PASSENGER SERVICE from
Australia and New Zealand.
Round the World Itineraries compiled.
OCJSA NIC STEAMSHIP CO., I'l'l).
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Managing Agents,
Pitt and Bridge Sts. SYDNEY.
KT. X). L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Three-Weekly Mail Service
OF
Twin Screw Steamers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-screw steamer.
Leaving MELBOURNE Wednesday after Sydney.
Interstate First Glass Return Tickets are now available
for Return by the Steamers of the P. and 0., Orient
Pacific, or M.M. Co.’s.
TO SINGAPORE,
via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA
MACASSAR and BATAVIA.
G.M.S. STETTIN, 26th NOVEMBER,
And Regularly Thereafter.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO. LIMITED, 7 and 9 Bridge-
street, Sydney.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL :
Nov. 3, Dec. 1, Dec. 29.
SEE AMERICA IN NOVEMBER,
DECEMBER, JANUARY.
The Rocky Mountains and Niagara
Falls in Winter Garb, as seen from
Train, are the Grandest Sights in
the World.
EVERY COMFORT AND LUXURY ON
TRAVELLING.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
RUPTURE
CURED
without
operation or pain,
k Jsr\i
no detention from work, or depend-
ence upon Trusses. The only
humane treatment. Hundreds
cured. Write to-day for illustrated
Treatise No. io. Address:
1 SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C-S., ENG.,
Cor Russell & Collins Sts.,
Throw away
your Truss.
Melbourne:
GO
o
cz:
so
m
Mr. Robert E.
PARKHURST
of Pitt St., Sydn y, says if any Sufferer from DEBILITY,
KIDNEY or BLADDER 1)1.-"EASE will write him he will inform
them of the perfect home cure that did the work in his case..
Shipping,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE •>
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingat Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Innaminoka,
Friday, October 31.
S.S. Marloo,
Saturday, November 8.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns
S.S. Allintra, Friday, Oct. 31.
S.S.lnnamincka,Sat., Nov.l
S.S. Warrego, Sat., Nov. 8.
S.S. Bockton, Sat., Nov. 15.
Jiest, and Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. 8. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THU POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Maokay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Twice weekly, via Bris-
bane, Maryborough, and Bundaberg.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Brls
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
via MELBOURNE—Fortnightly.
Passeni/er A eco ni.inoda.tion, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Agents, 1(1 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports
D AND Q COMPANY’S
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERB
FOR MARSEILLES, PLYMOUTH, and LONDON
(connecting at Port Said with the 20-knot Express
Steamers ISIS and OSIRIS for Brindisi), leave Sydney
on the subjoined dates, and calling at the usual Ports.
Main Line Steamers have permission to call at Brindisi.
FIRST AND SECOND SALOON ONLY.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B to £77
Ditto Ditto Return, £66 to £ll5
Return Tickets (First Saloon) between Inter-state Ports
are available for return by P. and 0., Orient-Pacific,
Messageries Mari times and N.D.L. Steamers having room.
EDWARD TRELAVVNY,
63 Pitt-street. Superintendent in Australia.
Messageries Mari times
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with tha
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT
SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meeli
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Custom*
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.,
Orient Pacific and N.D.L. steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
. . TO . .
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. |Tns Commander. iLeave Sydney
EASTERN . 3600 Winthrop Ellis .. November 15
AIRLIE 2500 St. John George. JDecember 6
AUSTRALIAN .. 3000 P. T. Helms .. January 3
EMPIRE .. 42001 W. G. McArthur.. January
The above steamers u’ere specially built for the Eattern
passenger trade, and are fitted with EVERY CON-
VENIENCE FOR TROPICAL TRAVELLING.
Through bookings to points in Canada, United States
of America and Europe at special rate 3.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
Lowest Fares and Freights.
For further information apply to
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.,
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
. SMOKE .
4^
A
on having this Brand
and no other.
Largest Depot:
231 CLRR€NC€ STR€€T,
SYDJXTEY.


An Australian swaddy sends this story
from Pretoria :—
A man in khaki sauntered into a hotel here, t’other
day, and, leaning lazily over the bar, called for a brandy.
The barman said he couldn’t serve khaki. “But I’ni'a
Dutchman,” expostulated the visitor. “ Oh ! that’s all
right,” and the snake-juice was poured out promptly.
“ The greatest loss ever sustained by the
nation is the loss of an honest belief in its devil.
So far, there has arisen nothing to make up for
this loss. A devil at least preserved us from this
giggling ease in sinning, the scourge of our time.”
—An old lady in new novel by “Iota” (Mrs.
Mannington Caffyn.)
The decline of man ! Melb. Age advt.,
wherein a man wants a woman’s billet, and is
willing to accept a girl’s wages to keep it! —
A/I AN, respectable, steady, elderly, seeks home,
town or country ; pay 5s. weekdo house work,
mind children ; open till Wednesday next. Domestic,
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, is the largest buyer of
Opals, Sapphires, Pearls and other Australian
gems, and consignors will find it to their advantage
to send their parcels direct to him. The firm has
a reputation for straight-dealing, extending over a
period of 40 years, which is a sufficient guarantee
that they will be honorably treated. A trial par-
cel, which will be followed by direct remittance,
is solicited.
V
&
HARLENE
The Great Hair
Producer and Restorer.
FOR
THE
THE FINEST DRESSING. SPECIALLY PREPARED AND DELICATELY PERFUMED.
A LUXI/1Y AND A NECESSITY TO EVERY MODERN TOILET.
“ HARLENE ” produces Luxuriant Hair. Prevents it Falling Off and
Turning Grey. Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the Beard and
Moustache. The World-Renowned Remedy for Baldness. For preserving,
Strengthening, and Rendering the Hair Beautifully Soft; for Removing
Scurf, Dandruff, &c. ; also for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour.
ROYAL TESTIMONY.
* Monsieur Philosophow is commanded
by
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN OF
GREECE
to forward cheque for the six bottles
of * Harlene ’ duly received.”
H.I.H. THE GRAND DUCHESS OF
MECKLENBURG-BGHWERIN
“ Requests large bottle ‘ Harlene ’ for
the Hair sent at once.”
H.B.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF CREECE
writes : “Messrs. Edwards’ Prepara-
tion, ‘Harlene’ for the Hair, has given
entire satisfaction. H.R.H. wishes
six more bottles of ‘ Harlene ’ sent as
soon as possible.”
H.I.H. THE GRAND DUCHESS CEORGE
OF RUSSIA
writes: “ Please send at once six
bottles of ‘ Harlene,’ the same as
formerly sent H.I.H. when still
Princess Marie of Greece.”
m
Jx
88
Stf
M
t.'--J
I/-, 2/6, and (3 times 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle, from Chemists and Stores all over the World
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE” CO.,
95 & 96, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON.
Mrs. LANGTRY, t6e e/jarming Hetress Manager,
writes: “Previous to my using HARLENE, my hair had become
Wa , S o fa lEng off. I have used your prepara-
tion daily for 18 months, and my hair is quite restored.
I cannot recommend Harlene too highly,”
"ACROSS THE BLACK SOIL PLAINS."
( George Lambert’s Picture in N.S.W. National Gallery).
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O NOBLY manned must be the land, and
nobly horsed as well,
Has such a sight as this to show, such
story has to tell,
The teamster who so sternly strides, the team so
strongly strains
Till stride and strength be come at length across
the Black Soil Plains
And many poets have we had, as poets still have
we,
Could Lambert’s art transmute to theirs, with all
of skill may be ;
But were they not our poets real, the Epic in
whose veins,
With graft and grit the rut-rune writ, across the
Black Soil Plains ?
“More Light! More Light!” these men they
cried, for this their war-word vow,
Who swear to set the choke a-crash, to leave the
clearing plow.
Let there be Light ! and fierce to fight forth
fared the thews and brains,
Begot the bale thus tugged to sale across the
Black Soil Plains.
Give us this day our daily bread by them was
rightly prayed,
Whose helves and hilts made shine the sweat the
bedesman best beti ayed,
For sure that way the stalwarts pray, for whom
the weighty wains
Of corn and w:;ol must be, to pull across the
Black Soil lb. ms.
And sore from Custom’s leaden links, and sad for
those whose bread
Is but the stone Convention—thrown where fools
are falsely fed,
’Tis pleasant here to stand and clear the mind
such memory stains,
With this the limner Lambert named “ Acress
the Black Soil Plains.”
Pleasant to turn from creed and deed, that fraud
and fear taint-tinge,
To find ones still nor threat nor ill can force to
cheat or cringe,
For here no swerve of will or nerve shall slack the
care and chains,
Where man and horse keep straight the course
across the Black Soil Plains.
But not alone of horse and man this canvas speaks
to me,
For with its work a word seems weaved of great
sights still to see ;
When sham and sloth shall tumble both, before
the Right that reigns,
When further yet mankind shall get across the
Black Soil Plains.
A symbol-subject Lambert’s seems, a visioned
emblem-theme,
Would tell of how toils on and on, the teamster
Time’s staunch team;
The teamster and the team whose tread, despite
of all detains,
No moment’s rest has e’er confess’t across the
Black Soil Plains.
That so must move the point to prove whereto the
teamster steers
Whose loading is that Larger Light the sightless
turns to seers,
Until of Cant’s rust-rotted rules not one last-left
remains
Of all delay our speed to-day across the Black
Soil Plains.
Go on, stern-striding teamster, and strain, tre-
mendous team,
I hear your hoofs and harness while drones and
dullards dream,
And watch among the mileage the wheel that
gradual gains,
Whatever mire may clog the tyre across the Black
Soil plains.
MOUSQUETAIRE.
The Wrong Man.
Some years ago a private in the Prussian army
was declared guilty of a certain offence and sum-
marily sentenced to receive twenty lashes with the
cat-o’nine tails. He was accordingly tied up to
a triangle, and a couple of farriers told off to
administer the punishment. From the first the
culprit’s face had borne an expression denoting
amusement, which developed into loud laughter
as the flogging proceeded. At a loss to account
for this, the farriers completed their task with
extraordinary vigour, but their energy only served
to increase the merriment of their victim. Having
carried out the sentence, the farriers released the
private, who was doubled up as much from laugh-
ter as from pain, and as they did so they inquired
the cause of his mirth. “ Why,” said the thrashed
one, as he laughed and writhed, “ you’ve been
flogging the wrong man. It’s the other fellow of
the same name you should have flogged.”
Now if this blunder constitutes a joke, one
would have supposed that the man who was
flogged would have been the last to perceive it,
and the man who should have been flogged, but
was not, the first. But then, you see, tempera-
ments differ, and this is a strange world, anyway.
Mr. P. Gardner, of 99, Cyclorama Buildings,
Hindley-street, Adelaide, S.A., was five years ago
a victim to chronic dyspepsia. In his effort to
find a cure, Mr. Gardner tried a number of patent
medicines ; but from the best of them he got no
more than a little temporary relief, a circumstance
which recalls the incident of the Prussian private.
If it be a joke to give a man medicines unsuited to
his case, and which do him no good, then was
Mr. Gardner’s experience a joke. But we doubt
very much if Mr. Gardner regards it in that light.
Very few people view things as that Prussian
viewed them. “In the early part of 1898,” says
Mr. Gardiner, “I could retain no food ; whatever
I ate I vomited within an hour. My tongue was
furred, I was subject to severe headaches and a
sense of crushing weight about the chest, and
became very thin and weak. My doctor said I
was suffering from, dyspepsia, but his medicines
did me no good whatever, and only as much can
be said of numerous patent medicines which I
tried. Some of these, however, did afford me ?
temporary relief, but no more. One day a cus-
tomer strongly urged me to try Mother Siegel’s
Curative Syrup, and I decided to give it a trial.
After taking a few doses, I felt much better. I
continued the medicine and gained in health,
strength, and weight day by day. Three bottles
of Mother Siegel’s Curative Syrup were sufficient
to restore me to health ; but though I keep a
bottle of it at hand for any emergency, my diges-
tion is now perfect, and I take pleasure in volun-
tarily testifying my appreciation of that which
has brought about this happy result.”


AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
Bought, Sold & Exchanged
Gibbons’ Philatelic Albums
and all requirements. Price lists gratis.
J. H. SMYTH & CO., 88 King-st.,
SYDNEY.
FACILE PRINCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
RED
RED
RED
RED
RED
RED
RED
RED
RED
BEST
BICYCLE
BUILT
GOOLD BICYCLE CO., 64 King-st., Sydney.
Branches in every State,
BIRD
BIRD
BIRD
BIRD
BIRD
BIRD
BIRD
BIRD
BIRD
The Australian Commission Agency Company,
101 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE,
Communicates with
“TATTERSALL,” HOBART.
A LL THE First and Second Prizes for Port Wines
at Adelaide Wine Show, October, 1902,
Were Taken by
Hardy’s Adelaide Wines
Cellars : 15 CROSVENOR ST., SYDNEY, and at ADELAIDE and MELBOURNE.
Cant and Cuddle.
The tendency of religious humbug to develop on
lines of cant and cuddle was never more pic-
turesquely displayed than during the “ Worthing-
ton Case ”in Melbourne. The combination seems
to be invariable, displaying itself always, from
organisations such as the Agapemone and Mormon
city, which more or less frankly founded their
appeal on “ Love,” to the more timid ventures in
which sensualism is wrapped up in mystic
Janctity. The cuddle is always there in about the
same proportion ; the cant varies in the mixture ;
Mormonism had very little, “Brother Prince’s”
Agapemone very much.
Pastor Worthington has worked on the tradi-
tional lines the game of the religious humbug, on
two continents. In the United States of America
he seems to have founded many churches and
loved many ladies, and lived comfortably the
while on the proceeds of his double devotions.
In Maoriland, as head of “The Temple of Truth,”
he proved himself a shepherd with a fine taste for
lamb. Then he transferred his piety and his
Eassions to Australia, and had a brief run in
lelbourne and Sydney. One of his transac-
tions in the former city led to his trial last
week on a charge of obtaining money on false
Sretences from a little widow, Madame Miranda
lay de la Juveny. His defence at the time
was, practically, that he hadn’t gone outside of
the rules and customs, as allowed by law, of the
religious confidence-game.
Pastor Worthington is a clean-shaven, pink-
skinned beauty, with fine, blue-grey eyes, and
that electric-silver hair which frames a youngish,
clean-cut face so effectively. One couldn’t imagine
a more magnetic personage with the ladies; and
he charmed men also—even Scotchmen. Madame
Miranda May de la Juveny, petite, with a svelte
figure and romantic eyes, fitted her name to a T.
What more description is wanted ?
The evidence scintillated with gems of humor.
Worthington’s strong card with Madame was
opcultism, Egyptian occultism, with a silver
Pyramid in the foreground, and the Nile waiting
in the background, and a clinging robe of white
silk for the lady, and as pet-names Isis and Osiris.
The “properties” were certainly picturesque.
But they were hardly managed with discretion.
Osiris Worthington occasionally disclosed the
traits of a Yankee bagman—his friend, real or
imaginary, who wrote to him letters which he
showed to the lady, addressed him as “dear
Buck ” ; Bulls of Apis, fancy ‘ ‘ Bjjclc ’ ’ Osiris ! Isis
Juveny failed always to respond to the situation,
and once signed a letter to Osiris, “ your little Isis,”
which was presumably the best idea of an awesome
Egyptian deity that an importer’s widow could
get to. It was the contrast between the humbug
of the Egyptian occultism and the essentially
modern and commonplace actors that made the
humor of the drama.
The money which Isis loaned to Osiris was
between £BOO and £lOOO. Osiris seems to have
held out a hope to Isis that Mrs. Osiris was going
to die of heart-disease ; when this didn’t happen
and Osiris shifted his residence to Sydney and
didn’t fly down to Melbourne very frequently
there was trouble and the law action. One of the
letters of the little widow Isis to Osiris: —
Oh, my God ! Oh, my Osiris ! Oh, I have never felt
anything like this—oh, this separation !It is the first
time in my life. I cannot bear to be alone. I was caught
in the terrible storm. I sheltered, oh darling, enveloped
in your arms, and I felt so afraid. It was so hard to face
the afternoon, and harder still to face the evening. I in-
tended to go home with auntie, but I could not bear to
be alone. After all I did not. I was so afraid I would
cry my heart out. I have been braver than I thought.
Oh, darling, while you were here I could not realise it
was to come to an end, not until it was time for you to
go. You will remember the hymn, “God Speed the
Bight.” Oh, mine, I chose it for you. God will speed
the right. lam doing right, and he will speed me to
you. Yes, we have so much to be thankful for. Oh, it
seems but five minutes—your coming, your visit, your
going. And when you saw me I had so many
questions about the lodge, about the work, to hold, but
I could not ask them when you were so weary. Only do
pardon me about the money. It is only right to agree
about it, is it not, dearie ? You showed me your account,
and I have given you mine—there is some mistake, yours
or mine. Ah ! one beautiful. lovely vision as you stood
singing the hymn, oh, so noble, so powerful, that stays
with me. Oh, you will only think of me as brave, loyal,
true, kind, devoted only to you, the work, the children—
they are my little ones, too. Oh, cast out any other
thought of me, and this will help me to be stronger,
nobler, wiser, and that will lead me sooner to you. When
you write I want you to promise, to say to me every day
as one hour approaches, Isis, I have perfect faith and
trust in you. I think only kindest words, Isis. I will
nourish my body, I will strengthen my brain, and when
you come to me you will fold me to your heart full of life,
strength, and power, Osiris. I have taken home the
little white flowers you gave me. I am unnerved, dar-
ling, so don’t notice the writing, Ever, ever, ever yours,
ever little Isis.
To this Osiris used to respond in something
after this fashion :
Isis, Isis, Isis. Oh, you say you have kept the hours.
Never mind, dearest soul 1 life, health of my life ! My
heart’s holy, spiritual priestess. Oh, I’ve almost for-
gotten everything. Death seems so near, and all else so
far away. Isis, look, look ! oh, daily give me your eyes.
Treat me quick ! quick !oh daily mine. Oh, only, only
you, dearest, to see, hear, look, touch, know that you
love me. . . .
God bless your dear eyes. How they talk to me some-
times when your tongue has to he still. Kiss me now,
darling, and bring me some envelopes on Thursday, and
lay your face against mine, and call me your own, own,
own. My darling little hearts-ease. You are my sweet-
heart and my hearts-ease both. Never fear but I will open
your power to you, and show you things you little dream
of now.
But the correspondence didn’t even keep up to
that somewhat stodgy level. Osiris had a wife
(whom Isis expected to die), and children, and a
mother-in-law, and an unpaid rent bill, and duns,
and a friend named Dunn (real or imaginary) who
addressed him as “Buck”; and Isis had an
essentially suburban soul; and it wasn’t possible
to keep up the Egyptian-god business under those
circumstances. And when the inumbo-jumbo
began to sag in the middle, the participants
couldn’t come down to practical common-sense
hugging, but must needs drag their foolish humbug
and its ridiculously damaged properties into the
law courts ; Mr. Worthington, in the elegant
vernacular of his native land, “bit off more than
be could chew.”
SPORTING NOTIONS.
This year’s Melbourne Cup is not a very open-
looking race at time of writing. After 4 o’clock on
Saturday afternoon it will probably present itself to the
average hopeful punter and tipster as a “ certainty ” for
one of three, or, at the most, four horses, according to
how things shape themselves in the Melbourne Stakes
and the Derby. Parenthetically, it may be remarked that
the winners and runners-up in the Stakes and Derby
ought to fill two, if not three, of the Cup places between
them. This is a year when w.f.a. “form” will look ex-
ceptionally dangerous for the big race before the event,
and when the Derby winner— should he win handsomety
—may be expected to start first favorite. Of the older
nags engaged in the Cup, present scribe takes Sir
Leonard, Blue Metal, The Victory, Felicitous, Flagship,
Patronage, Lieutenant Bill, Vanity Fair, The Persian, and
Patronus as having considerable chances. Patronage is
the most fancied. The 5-year-old brother to Patron has
the reputation of being a “good thing” for the Cup;
nevertheless the “Racing Calendar” gives little
encouragement to back him for a two-mile race.
Patronage certainly carried a light weight into second
place for the Metrop. last year. With that exception he
has always run badly when the distance exceeded 11
furlongs, whereas he was fairly brilliant over shorter
courses. Ruenalf, another own brother to Patron,
showed a lack of stamina when he was put to the Melb.
Otsp test, and Patronage looks more of a Ruenalf than a
Patron. He may win the Cup easily, but there are
reasons for preferring The Persian, wiio ran second for
this year’s Metrop. (in which he met Patronage at exactly
their Melb. Cup weights), and has performed more like a
stayer than the other fellow. Anyway, The Persian is
preferred to Patronage in this sermon.
Aiso the writer likes The Victory, Vanity Fair,
and Patronus rather than Sir Leonard, Blue Metal, Felici-
tous, Flagship or Lieutenant Bill, for reasons of his own.
As a matter of fact Vanity Fair showed more stoutness
than any of Ins mates in the Caulfield Cup field. He was
always in the front rank, and he outstayed others that
were Deing “ run off their legs,” finishing only a length
and a half behind the winner. The Victory, fit on the
day, should have a big chance, for he is an impressive
little battler with two or three good performances to his
credit. And seeing that Patronus, in the same stable,
has been backed for much money, it is permissible to
fancy that rank outsider, although he has never yet won
a race. Money talks every time, and the backing of
Patronus, in the face of his bad record, amounts to a
strong stable tip. He must have been satisfactorily
galloped with The Victory. Moreover, he can be made
out to have a better chance than Flagship or Felicitous
on paper. Patronus, Vanity Fair, The Persian and The
Victory strike this scribe as being better investments
at their prices than Patronage, Flagship and co.
As for the Derby, one is bound to reckon it a
race between three—Strata Florida, Brakpan, and Abun-
dance. There are other 3-year-olds with a possible
chance in the Oup, but the Derby favorites look to be
better specs., even at short prices, than Oak-
wood, and Rienzi. The Derby will show whether Strata
Florida is another Newhaven. If he wins, he will have to
carry 7.6 in the Oup—the same weight as Abundance and
51bs. less than Brakpan. Should he get beaten in a tight
finish for the Derby by Abundance or Brakpan, he will
still have a fine Oup chance. Backers of Strata for Derby
and Oup stand on velvet at present. As only one horse
can win the ribbon on Saturday, and the Derby victor,
however tight the finish may be, will probably
prove the boss 3-year-old in the Oup, this scribe
must venture a straight-out vote for Abundance.
Taking Abundance to beat Strata in the Derby, the
selected six for the Oup are : The Persian, Abundance,
Strata Florida, Vanity Fair, The Victory and Patronus.
Placing them for purposes of investment, the tip is :
The Persian 1 -
Abundance .. ... .. 2
Strata Florida .. .. 3
Patronus 4
Patronus should at least win the Hotham Handicap on
Saturday—if he goes for it.
* * * *
The violent inconsistency of Lieutenant Bill’s
performance in Caulfield Cup, as compared with his
previous defeats, gave some of the Melbourne horse-
reporters a chance to make apologetic objects of them-
selves. The public was supplied with full and particular
details to explain how Mr. M'Culloch’s gee-gee had won the
Oup without inflicting the least stain on the “stable’s”
character. Nobody had backed it. The owner was so dis-
appointed at its previous bad running that he would have
scratched it for the big race had the trainer not implored
him to reconsider his determination. Also the owner’s
brother —Mr. Sam. M'Oulloch—advised him to give the
jockey new instructions, which were duly carried out
with marvellous success. And so forth. Lieut. Bill’s
“ reversal of form ” was above suspicion because the
owner happened to be a M'Gulloch and a provedly straight
man. As a matter of fact the excuses offered for this
staggering surprise seem quite genuine ; nevertheless the
turf reporters would not have been so anxious to make
things pleasant in the event of a bookmaker’s horse doing
what Bill did at the Caulfield meeting. By the way,
whose money was it that went on L. 8., weeks ago, when
he ranked as actual first favorite for the Cup ?
* * * *
‘ Indra : Talk about luck ! Shortly before the
Caulfield Oup I sent to a bookie and backed Flagship
straight out. The b.’s clerk by mistake booked it as a
“ place ” bet, but I was satisfied. Then at the last
moment the b.’s clerk discovered his mistake and rectified
Result, Flagship second. D !
* * • *
The scratching of Wakeful and other of Leslie
Macdonald’s horses for Melbourne Oup six days before the
final acceptances for that event fell due, was a good
example to those owners who never show the least regard
for the outside public. At a rough calculation, this
withdrawal of Wakeful would save a couple of thousand
punters scattered all over the country from wasting their
shillings, half-sovs. and quids on a non-starter.
* * » *
The Idler was said to have “never taken hold
of his bit ” in the Caulfield Oup, which habit of not trying
to win is apt to grow upon a nag that rarely finds itself
“ wanted.” The Idler has run many times when he was
short of condition, or in w.f.a. races where he had no
chance of beating, say, Wakeful, and was only taking it
easy behind the mare. None but constant “ triers ” can
be trusted to do their best when the money is on. Rogue
horses on the turf are more frequently made than born.
A Carbine or a Wakeful in the hands of a too “ clever ”
manager might have proved a wayward animal instead of
a generous battler.
* * * *
“Bob” Phillips, whose view of the situation is
none the less to be respected because he, unhappily, is
almost blind, reckons that Strata Florida will need to be
all there on the day to beat Abundance for the Cup.
* * * *
The winner of the first prize in Tattersall’s con-
sultation on the Caulfield Oup—£67so—was H. Beeching,
chief cook on the steamer Warrego.
• * * *
Since Duke of Grafton won the Debutante
Stakes the running of some that he donkev-licked in that
scramble has made the big colt look a good thino- for the
Maribyrnong Plate. The penalty is not likely to stop
Duke of Grafton on Saturday. Obverse is another 2-year-
old worth following through the V.R.C. meeting. In
two races at Caulfield the black filly seemed to be run-
ning on at the finish, so the extra distance at Flemington
should suit her complaint.
• * * *
At last! Remarkably consistent second and
third place-getter, T.M.S., got home at Warwick Farm,
Saturday. Punters had no chance of getting back any-
thing like a fair percentage of their losses, as Mo asked
threes and, in some places, fours “ on ” before he’d bet.
* * * •
The talk of Melbourne and Sydney is the singular
luck of visiting French sport—brandy man Hennessy.
He was among the biggest winners over Lieutenant Bill’s
Caulfield Cup, and Killua’s win of Windsor Handicap
same day. Hennessy has, as the second leg of a double
with Lieutenant Bill, The Persian going in Melb. Cup to
win him £5OOO atop of big straight-out bets. He has laid
The Persian’s lessee and trainer, Sam Fielder, £lOOO to a
cigar on the result. Said that the cognac distiller also
won heavily on The Persian and others at Moonee Valley
Saturday last. In Sydney this same fortune-pampered
party, when few others would “ touch ” Stillwater at
Ranchvick, backed him to a lively tune, and the nag,
starting at twelves, romped home. A month or so since
at Warwick Farm, a prad being exercised about the
paddock bumped against Hennessy. “ What’s the name
of that horse?” he asked. “ Bar One” came the reply,
and the foreigner went straightway and backed Bar One
to land a good weight of coin, in face of the fact that the
owner and trainer didn’t fancy the nag’s chance at all—
but Bar One nevertheless passed the judge first.
Hennessy is after La Carabine for breeding purposes.
Rupert Clarke wants £2500, and at that the matter
stands. Might also be told in this connection that
sensational scratching of Seclusion for Caulfield Cup is
attributed by many to the fact that the brandy man
backed her heavily.
* * * *
Elimination of Wakeful last week from Mel-
bourne Cup hit punters hard in both straight-out bets
and doubles. For long, nothing better than 100 to 1 the
biggest outsider in Caulfield Cup with Wakeful was
obtainable, and even at that combinations were rushed.
Kinglike, Bullion and Irwell went out at same time,
leaving Mr. C. L. McDonald without a trier in the big
race. With Wakeful’s absence, Melbourne Cup field
looks more like an important week-end handicap than the
biggest plum of the Australian turf ye; -.
* * * *
The marked hostility displayed towards The
Persian for Melb. Cup by Melbot \e ringmen, whose
attitude in the matter appeared 1 ) indicate that they
“knew something,” completely scared the cutest of
punters off him for Moonee Valley Cup. Subsequently to
the race, however, the rush to “get on ” caused the nag’s
price to harden to eights, which, at moment of writing,
is the best available. The Persian’s Melb. Cup load is
exactly what he humped so meritoriously in the Metrop.
More than probable that Frank Fielder will ride him, and
that he’ll consequently carry in the neighborhood of 41bs.
over weight. The Persian is owned by present Mayor of
Casino (N.S.W.), Mr. J. B. M’Dougall, and was bred on
the Richmond River. Trainer, Sam Fielder, has the
horse leased.
• *
The Persian’s win of Moonee Valley Gup Satur-
day was impressive and the manner in which he wore
opposition down in the short straight should more than
satisfy his backers for Melb. Cup. He humped a bigger
load (9.7) than any previous winner and the time (2.21£)
was 2sec. better than the best done before. The Persian’s
weight in Melbourne Cup is lib. less than his M.V. Cup
figures reversed.
• •
‘ Read ” : Carbine won 33 races, representing
£29,476 in stakes. Malua did not win more than halj
that amount at most. We cannot give exact amount of
Malua’s winnings.
• • *
Pingpong is a declining craze since picking up
the balls lost its charm. The pingpong ball, like all others,
ever rolls into the most inaccessible places, and when the
supply was used up the whole company, players and on-
lookers, simultaneously dived under the tables, sofas, and
caught as caught they could. It was a delicious gamble,
as one never knew whose best girl, wife, or mother he
was going to get hold of. There was but one cert, in the
whole thing. If there was a particularly pretty married
woman present under the care of her mamma, owing to
hubby being on night-shift, or at the club, or somewhere
else, the man who hunted that pretty married woman
was always certain to catch her mother, no matter what
table or sofa he dived under. All this pleasant human
interest has vanished from pingpong since a meddling,
puritanical Scotchman invented a patent “pingpong
ball piclcer-up,” consisting of a rubber-cup on the end of
a stick about the length of a billiard-jigger. Immediately
the rubber comes in contact with the celluloid ball suction
does the rest, and there is no possible excuse for anyone
to dive into anyone else’s arms under the furniture.
* * * *
The Scotchbyterian conscience of Vic. panels
Minister McKenzie revolted so at the recent Felix-
Doherty glove-contest that he rounded up Fitzgerald
Bros., and, threatening to cancel the lease of their circus
building, where the fight took place, gave them a lecture
of an hour’s duration on the text that the little hands of
Doherty and Felix were never made to black each other’s
eyes. The lease having now expired, Minister Mac is
rubbing the sermon into Dan and Tom by raising the
rent of the ground on which the circus stands.
• * * *
Tim Hegarty, who has tne reputation of being
the cleverest Australian lightweight since Griffo, is back
from ’Frisco, much disgusted with “ ’Murka ” and the
’Murkans. He swears he never had a chance in his class,
and is burning to mend his reputation. He has a fixture
with Micko Walsh, Vic.’s best “ fedder, but is probably
hungry for Jack M’Gowan’s scalp. These two have met
often, but have never fought a good fight. It would be
different now that M'Gowan has much to lose, and Aus-
tralia couldn’t supply a better battle than these two
could make if really in earnest.
* • • *
Dan Creedon was paraded at Fitzroy, Melb.,
Athletic Club Hall, the other afternoon, to satisfy sports
that, although grey, he is still good. He boxed with
champion feather Micko Walsh like a young ’un, and
afterwards stripped in a manner that would have won
roars from a variety audience. Oreedon looks strong and
spry enough to get the beans from Doherty on Oaks
night, unless the latter is a heap better than he was when
M‘oall got a cheap championship from him.
* * * *
Latest acquisition to Sydney pugdom is blocky-
built, light-middleweight Maber—the very antithesis of
his brother, “Shadow” Billy, prominent 12 years ago.
Present Maber is an aggressive, hard-hitting fighter who
takes battery as well as he gives it. T’other night, at
Sydney Gaiety A.C., though comparatively green, Maber
slugged Mason (10.8) right out in five rounds.
* • * *
Some of the remarkable Heckenburg family, of
Liverpool, N.S.W., are bidding for heavyweight bruising
honors, with plenty coin behind them. There are eight
sons all told. The “little ’un ” of the family scales 12.11,
and stands sft. lOin. Others average 6ft. 2in. Heaviest
scales I7st., another 16, a third 15, and a fourth 14. A
couple of them are champion axemen, who have success-
fully toured Tas. and Clarence River district (N.S.W.),
where wood-chopping competitions are frequent and of
high standard. One of the household (“ Alf ”) is matched
with Broken Hill “Ted” Murphy. Another (“Bill”),
who’ll scale 14st. fit, wants to fight negro Ike Stewart,
Queenslander Booth, or any man bar top-notchers
M’Call, Scanlan, Doherty, or Felix, exempted only
because this particular Heckenburg has never had a fight
yet. Judged by appearances, if Larry Foley could be
induced to take the brothers in hand they’d supply thl
pugs. Australia and England are badly in need of now—a
couple of champion heavj-weights. There’s a big fortune
waiting for another Jackson, Fitzsimmons, or Paddy
Slavin.
• « *
Recent bruise between J. Goode (Gunnedah)
and Alf. Heckenburg (Liverpool), for £250 a-side, at
Moree (N.S. W.), which ended inside four rounds, saw last-
named bested. Over £5OO went from Heckenburg’s party
to t’other side. Whipped man’s friends attribute his
defeat to weakness caused by taking 2st._ off in three
weeks. Another match for bigger money is confidently
looked for. Goode looks like turning out a top-notcher
if given the opportunity.
* » *
Vio. heavyweight Fred. Preston’s easy smash-
ing of Sydney middle-pounder, Ike Stewart, in Melbourne
last week, hit Sydney pugdom in the wind, as Preston
was mostly reckoned fairly easy game for the West Indian
darkey. Stewart, probably through being among strangers,
and because of the weight disparity (Preston scaled nearly
15st, and Stewart list. 21b), offered little resistance, and
proved nothing more nor less than an animated punching-
bag for the pot-bingied Melbournite. When Preston got
the knock-out thump home in the third round he in-
dulged in some flash crowing that contrasted hideously
with those occasions when Mick Dunn hammered him
badly, and when he went under in short order to Snowy
Sturgeon after the poorest attempt at fight ever a man
with any sort of a reputation made.
* * * *
M‘Gowan-Frost fight at Sydney “National,”
Monday night, drew something in excess of 1200 people,
despite that the match did not, on form (an unreliable bruis-
ing barometer), impress too well, as Palmer beat Frost in
four rounds and M‘Gowan smashed Frost in nine. Cur-
tain-raiser, limited to 10 rounds, saw Dick Swift (10.0 j),
first time in public, opposed to Harry Dawson (11.4), an
old-time victim of late Otto Cribb and Snowy ,Sturgeon.
The thing looked like being vimful until Swift, after
being forced on one knee in his own corner rose, while
his own seconds screeched warnings to “ stay there for
10 seconds,” and so confused him that he dropped down
again, whereupon referee Harry Beckett promptly and
properly disqualified him for going down without a blow.
Conditions enjoined that M’Gowan and Frost should
scale not more than 9.6. Former barely pulled the
weight, Frost made 2£lb. less. Both showed excellent
“ fix,” but champion lightweight M’Gowan looked
below himself, and mostly moved heavily, and ap-
peared weak at critical junctures. Frost forced the game,
and, operating always with an occasionally effective left,
invariably followed up with a right rib drive, which shook
the Melbournite visibly. McGowan rushed and swung the
left on the stomach or ribs, but Frost always moved from
it, thus lessening the force materially. McGowan was in-
variably cool, and, while t’other shifted and ducked
about, remained steady and not in the slightest discon-
certed, watching for a chance to home the right. But
Frost, wary always, dodged or clinched when things were
torrid, and for 1.0 rounds was ahead on points. Then
McGowan shook himself up and began to score, till the 16th
gave him the long-looked-for chance. A short arm
right on the jaw, and, as Frost staggered, another jolt on
the temple stretched him beyond recall.
• • * •
N.S.W. National Rifle Association’s meet, con-
cluded Saturday, saw some acceptable innovations among
competitors. Most notable (“ The Finn ”) was a mechani-
cally-worked “marching man,” moving 100yds. in 60sec.
at 200yds. range. Shooters had to fire eight shots in the
time. Entries totalled 750. Winner (Haley) hit the
figure every shot, and many others got close. Oraclt
fixed-target shooters generally, contrary to often ex-
pressed expert opinion, shaped capitally. Another event
(“ The Hutton”) was rapid firing at disappearing targets
200yds. away. These showed eight times for 4sec. each
occasion, with an interval of 6sec. between appearances.
A third (“The Rawson”), contested at 200yds., intro-
duced a single target bearing a figure
in the act of firing. This was exposed eight times at
different places and at intervals of from 5 to lOsecs. Each
competitor had to take cover behind anything, and
umpires watched and deducted points if individual mem-
bers of contending teams unduly exposed themselves to
fire from the direction of the target. Bananalanders
gathered first and second in the “ Hutton,” with 21 and
20 of a possible 24. Twenty combinations of ten tackled
the “ Rawson,” and Bathurst Co. of 3rd Infantry Regt.
won after a tie with the ’Varsity Vol. Corps’ cracks.
Most competitors were beaten through neglect to take
proper cover. Feature of the shooting throughout the
gathering was remarkable success of visiting riflemen,
those from Vic. and Q. particularly.
• « * •
Th e Australian fixture between the Australian
aI. and the Rest of Australia, on Dec. 12, is getting close,
and speculation on the Restralian team is varied.
Everyone wants to know where decent bowlers are to
come from. Good ones, bar blackfellow Marsh, are not
expected, but even mediocre talent seems unknown in
Adelaide and Melbourne, as well as in Sydney. The match
ist o be played in Sydney.
'* * * •
Sydney first grade cricket last Saturday had
alternating rain and sunshine conditions but wickets
were not materially affected. Sensational thing
of the day was defeat of last season’s premiers,
Sydney, by Redfern, who notched 1 to the good.
Scores were 173 172. Absence of aboriginal bowler
Marsh made much difference to the defeated side.
Excitement was great last stages of the match.
Burwood (last year’s weak combination) accounted for
Paddington with a surplus of 23. Central Cumberland
had 6 wickets and 20 runs to the good from North Sydney.
Towards the winners’ total Pye (n. 0.) brought 150 (the
season’s top compilation so far) and gathered thenl with-
out giving a chance. Leichhardt-Balmain, declaring
innings closed with 9 down for 334, beat ’Varsity by 247.
Exceptionally fine bowling of Duckworth, w T ho bagged 9
for 41, was a huge factor in this result. Waverley-Glebe
match opened late and ended in a draw. Central Cum-
berland tops the list now.
• • • •
“Demon” Spofforth was first in the Veterans’
70 yards, and third in the 120 handicap at Hampstead
C. C. (his club) sports, the other day.
* * * *
Australasian golf championship, with attendant
Victorian golf cup, decided in Melbourne, last week, fell
to Sydney crack and ex-N.S.W. champion H. Macneil.
One round on the first day saw him do the 18 holes in 77
—the best recorded for Sandringham links, as they are
now, with recent alteration of tees adding to difficulties.
Though Mac Neil had a surplus of six on the first day, only
one point separated the four leaders entering the last of
the four rounds, thus leaving ownership of the title still
doubtful. By dint of exceptionally brilliant play Mac Neil
went round in 78, and finished the competition six better
than W. J. C. Riddell (previous Victorian champion), who
tied with P. C. Anderson, said to be an ex-world’s
premier. Entrants totalled 34, and embraced the conti-
nent’s best players, only notable absentee being C. E.
Gillies, champion in ’99.


Frozen Fish
Has the same FRESH*
NE.SS and DELICACY
of FLAVOR as when
newly caught.
0
It can be sent with safety during the winter
months to almost any far distant railway
station in the State.— =
SMOKED FISH {our own curing) forwarded
by Parcels Post to back*country districts
Please send foe Catalogue of
the different kinds and prices
75he N.S. Wo FresH Food (Si Ice Co. Ltd.
Head Office and Refrigerating Works, Harbour St., ■Sydney '
BREEDING
Open on
Saturday
Afternoons.
is admitted by all to be a very important subject. It certainly receives a very
large amount of attention. You cannot mistake the brand of
riassey=Harris Cycles.
They lave that aristocratic air about them that stands out and speaks of their
splendid.history. They are bred on Brains and built on Honor. For speed
MASSEYS are easily first.
Call and see our New Models.
THE CANADA CYCLE & HOTOR CO., Ltd.,
Branches in Every State. 357 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Franz Josef Lager
.... THERE IS NOTHING BETTER
YOU GET THE BEST VALUE FOB, YOUR MONEY WHEN YOU
BUY A
REMINGTON
Double-Barrel .
Hammerless Gun
Thoroughly Guaranteed.
Kept n stock by the Largest Gun Stores in Melbourne and Sydney.
Remington A.rms Company,
Head Office: 315 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
REMINGTON GUNS, £5 ios. to £lO
REMINGTON RIFLES, 23/6 post free
McLEAH BROS. & RIGG, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-St., Melbourne.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
THE HARVEL
OF THE
JUST PUBLISHED.
AUSTRALIAN PUBLISHING WORLD,
The Commonwealth Annual
Price IS. Post Free, 2d. extra.
CONTRIBUTORS Banjo” Paterson, W. Jeffery, Dorrington, R. Quinn, Ogilvie,
Evison, Ethel Turner, J. A. Barry, H. Lawson, Steele Rudd, V. Daley, B. Dibbs, etc.
ARTISTS : —F. Leist, Taylor, Dancey, Groose, Lindsay, Fisher, Souter, Sass, McCrae, etc.
Daily Telegaph says : —“ The best shilling’s worth of the kind that has yet been offered to
the Australian Public.”
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL COMPANY, 861 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
All Branches and Booksellers.
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OF INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER and
A PEN CARBON BOOK
makes a complete outfit with
which any
MAN,
WOMAN OR
CHILD
can write a letter, and at the same
tiipe make an exact copy without
leaving the slightest sign of copy-
ing on the original.
'A
s,
A
&
A
Va
s/
It keeps a duplicate of bills you send out, of orders, receipts, bank checks. It leaves no vague
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original.
. From its testimony there can be no appeal. It will save any house or family much money by its
indisputable record.
There is no man or woman, professional or not, who would not at some time or other find
THE PEN CARBON LETTER BOOK
For fullest particulars, price, etc., write to the sole
A True and Valued Friend.
Assents For Australasia.: E. RICH & CO. LTD., Sydney BRISBANE
By Special
Appointment.
Cr. H. SMITH and SON,
TROPICAL HELMET
•with special air-space,
in white drill , ds'c.'dnd
in all colors in felt.
10/6 and 12/6
Eat and Cap Manufacturers
and Importers,
302 George-st, Sydney
Sombrero Soft Felt Hats,
All Shades and Sizes.
Soft Felt Hombergs.
In all Sizes and Colors.
Straw Hats. Stetson Hats.
Polo Caps, Military and Naval
Caps, Livery Hats, Clerical Silk
Hats, Eto., Made to Order
SHARPSHOOTINg
V/For Sport and War,
By W. W. GREENER.
HITS THE MARK!
180 Pages, 100 Illustrations, 1/. nett. •
Posted, 1/2. ’ ’
The best 1/- worth ever Published,
IP you wish to get good work and value
■ you should purchase W. W. GREENER'S
World-Renowned GUNS and RIFLES,
a Large Stock of which are always kept on
hand. Catalogues and all particulars on
application to—
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Greener’s Representative).
Single sculls supremacy of Victoria (over 2Jm.
of Lower Yarra), Saturday, went to last year’s winner,
P. O. Ivens, by 1J lengths from H. Brasch, after a fresh
start necessitated by fouls and further faulty steering in
the second effort. Time (15min. lOsec.) lowers previous
best by nearly 4min. N.S.W. and Tas. champions, Daley
and Bourke, did not enter as expected. First of these
fixtures was decided 14 years ago, when J. O. Fitzgerald
won.
A woman’s petition in Sydney against the
unspeakable brutality of hanging Mrs. Sangal,
after waiting for the birth of her child, makes
this strong point:
It is argued that nursing back this woman to life for
such a consummation is no worse than nursing back the
man for the same purpose, but it must be remembered
the man is always nursed back before conviction, while
this woman will be nursed back after conviction. The
man may be buoyed up with hope during the time, while
this woman will be suffering all the tortures of despair.
Lately wrote Melb. Age :
The Australian naval station will shortly be raised in
status by the placing in commission of the Spartiate as
flagship, and the Telegraph, a vessel of nearly equal
strength.
It quite forgot to say that those magnificent
battleships, H.M.S. Umbrella and Hot-Cross
Bun would also be added. The Spartiate, it
seems, is a useless tub, which has been for several
years the joke of the navy. “But anything is
good enough for the colonies.”
Tasmania’s Council has resolved by a
majority of six that payment of members ought to
be abolished, so that only rich men with time
hanging heavily on their hands, or persons with
profitable axes to grind, may sit in Parliament.
Nobody pays much attention, however. Even
the Tory Launceston Examiner recently com-
plained that the same fossils are perpetually re-
turned without a contest; that they have “out-
lived their usefulnessthat they seldom attend
to business, and have so few ideas that they never
propose any legislation of their own, but merely
throw out the Assembly’s measures. When even
the Examiner practically describes the Council as
consisting of 19 superannuated chuckers-out it
has become a bad case of throwing stale eggs at
sacred things.
Now that the Melb. racing season is in
full blast, to pick the winner is the dearest—if not
the most expensive—wish of every right-thinking
citizen. The best oracle to consult on this, or any
other, subject is D.C.L. Whisky. Taken at the
right moment and in the proper spirit, it braces
the courage and illuminates the mind. It doesn’t
make one “see things” in the d.t. sense of the
term, but it stimulates the prophetic instinct.
D.C.L. the Whisky of the Wise Punter.*
Now, when fiery summer is upon us, we fall
gladly back upon our old friend and pick-me-up, Mighty
Alok. This remarkable tonic, freshty prepared from the
African kola nut, embraces also valuable constituents
known only to the inventors and manufacturers, Fisher
and Co., 337 George-street, Sydney, and produces a most
magical effect when, on hot mornings, there is a great
lack of appetite and energy. Taken then, with a cold
soda, Alok makes you feel like a giant refreshed. Madame
Albani, the famous singer, when in Australia, regularly
used Alok, which, after fatiguing work, she found indis-
pensable, and, when leaving for S’Africa, Madame had a
case sent on board for her. Almost every hotel through-
out the Commonwealth and Maoriland now stocks this
splendid tonic, and, as a matter of course, there are now
on the market many worthless imitations, against which
the public is hereby cautioned. Fisher and Co.’s trade-
mark is registered in all the Australian States, Maoriland,
the U.K. and the U.S.A.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Mr. A. M'Guire writes re B. par (25/9/’O2)
that the “Sydney Metropolitan Branch of the
A.N.A. has a small deficit for the year”—that
there is no “ Sydney Metropolitan Branch,” and
that Sydney Branch No. 1 had a credit balance of
£B7 2s. 7d. last year.
At the Standard Brewery (Toohey’s, Ltd.),
Sydney, there has just been installed an extensive
and elaborate pneumatic malting plant, costing
£28,000. The new plant, according to director
J. T. Toohey, “ will enable the co. to turn out for
its own use some 100,000 bushels of high-grade
malt in prime condition every year, which will
place the brewery on a basis independent of the
fluctuations of the foreign market in respect of
much of the raw material required in its success-
ful management.”
RAMEY'S MEDIC A TOR
For the Treatment of Catarrh. Hay Fever,
Bronchitis. Influenza, Catarrhal
Deafness, etc.
Medicator, with complete treat-
ment, only 101-, post free.
WRITE FOR FREE PAMPHLET.
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY
229,231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE. j
rrmi 11 1 u rn
I
i.r
cm
Jiuiil
s
;iiji
01
iTTim i
M
mm
mafia
m
EOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,” -»1
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor—GEO. IF. ELLIS.
SOAPS dubbed Shaving
are rarely
Shaving Soaps.
In a Class by Themselves
The World’s Standard Shaving Soaps
Williams’ Barber’s Bar
and
Williams’ Shaving Stick
“BARBER’S BAR”
While the natural Ally
Of the Deft Artist
And his Trusty Blade
Is also the Ideal Soap
For Home Use
Fits your Birthday Mug
Once tried, never changed
“Won’t Dry on the Face.”
Send a Penny Stamp and we will post you Williams’
Changing Face Puzzle. Can you explain it?
J. B. WILLIAMS CO., Glastonbury, Conn., U.S.A. ;
and at 232 Clarence-st., Sydney.
O O o C o °o o
°z 0 o°°ooP°o:
0 0 0
fra
OoSL
wmmv&sMslsfc,
o °
o Oo
000
Oo?0
0 0° 0 °S £/&) Vo°00O ogQ
°o
wimmmmsm
00 0 n °0 0 00 0X093 o o O Q
op5?o;;9Xoooo
000
00^0
00050
°?<&g U o°XcO u o <teO°°&d
oxo
So?*
oopb
oS
&q.°cgo 0 0r>
fei
bo^OqI.® 1 .®
\ USE <:
DUNLOP
HOSE
It does r\ot
Cro.ck
or Burst . ~
Ask your Storekeeper to procure
you Dunlop Hose if he
does not stock it. It is absolutely
the finest obtainable and will last
for years. Price and sample on
application.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. OF AUS., LTD.,
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane and Christchurch (N.Z.).


r
•s
Os'
&
''o
co
A
V#>,o
S 3
\
5^
\
m
H
///
8@
*“1(11
i° D o
wy
The Photos. Packed with GUINEA GOLD CIGARETTES are Worth Keeping.
They are an education in themselves as they
save up 100, bring them to us, and we’ll give you a
cover such a tremendous range of subjects. We are now giving away Albums to put them in.
HANDSOME CLOTH-BOUND ALBUM to put future GUINEA GOLD CARDS in.
If you live out of town we will mail (free) the Album on receipt of 100 Cards.
All that is necessary is to
OGDEN’S, LIMITED, 45 York Street, Sydney.
Lighthouse-tending in Bass Straits is not
an idyllic pastime. During the past two years
the Wickham tower, 180 ft. high, and said to be
the tallest lighthouse in the Commonwealth, has
been twice struck by lightning. First time, the
arrow-head of the conductor was fused and con-
siderable damage done to the tower and to under-
keeper Knight’s nervous system. Second time,
the tower suffered hardly at all, but Mr. Knight’s
nerves were again badly shattered. The light-
house at Kent’s Group has been struck by
lightning thrice; on one occasion, considerable
damage was done. The head-keeper’s house,
two miles away, is connected by telephone. Once,
when the lightning struck the tower, the wall-
paper of the sitting-room was scorched for some
distance all round the transmitter.
An outbreak of diphtheria in the school at
Bagshot (Vic.) led to investigations. Some of
the results :
The doctor proceeded to a farm and inspected the
milking- shed, right opposite the school. There was ac-
commodation there for at least two dozen cows. The
proprietor was not at home, bub his man informed Dr.
Arkins, in the presence of Constable Germaine, that the
cows were milked daily, and the milk sent to Bendigo.
Not 10 yards from the milking-shed was a heap of rotten
manure, and under that heap, the man informed
him, two dead cows and a dead calf had been
buried for the last month, and a couple of
days previously had been removed and burnt in
Constable Le Page’s presence. The children of the school
had been inhaling the poison for that period, and the
Bendigo people received milk from that hotbed of filth.
Of the cases of diphtheria, one was fatal. There were
also several cases of sore throat in the district. He called
on the proprietor in reference to his farm, but that gen-
tleman refused to see him. The doctor alleged that the
condition of these premises during that time helped in a
degree the causes of diphtheria and other throat diseases
in that district.
Cow inspection in Victoria is entrusted to the
local bodies—in other words, the dirty-cow pro-
prietor is a shire councillor, and appoints the
inspector, with the general understanding that, if
he seriously inspects any influential person’s cows,
he will lose his job.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, 01
advised to submit to amputation ; hut do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; hut l WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT ana PiLLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&e, Price, in Great Britain, l/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Gras-ln pper on a
green iahel on each box. (R»g't copyright).
/
i
a
)//
WEAK MEN CURED FREE.
We have the most powerful and practical cure ever
yet invented_ for the positive, certain, and radical cure
of Rheumatism, Lumbago, Weak Back or Kidneys,
Nervousness, Liver, Bladder, and Stomach troubles;
in fact, all chronic diseases. In 20 years we have cured
50,000 weak men and women. Our method cannot
possibly fail. No matter what other treatment or belt
you may have used, WE WILL CURE YOU, and we
are so positive of the tremendous therapeutic properties
of our latest improved Belt that we will send our Latest
Model Full Power No. 8 Belt, complete with all
attachments, to any person writing us, and you can
wear it for 90 days, and you only
PAY WHEN CURED.
This is the most generous offer ever yet made, in
order thoroughly to introduce throughout the Common-
wealth this splendid Belt. Our New Belt is positively
the only guaranteed Belt now in use which does not
require vinegar to generate its current. It is guaranteed
for 3 years, and you have the advice and care of a
physician till cured. One Belt can be worn by 8
persons. It generates a powerful vitalising current of
electricity, which you feel the instant applied. You
can wear it at night. It cure? while you sleep. If you are weak or ailing in any way ;if you
are not the man or woman nature intended you to be, then try our Belt. It will cure you. If
not it won’t cost you a penny. We will take any other Belt in exchange at half-price. We
have just published a New and Beautifully Illustrated Medical Book, which is absolutely
FREE TO ALL
writing us. It will interest and help every adult reading it, so delay no longer, but write to-day
for our FREE BOOK and Powerful Belt. Write to-day.
THE DR. J. M. AUSTIN ELECTRIC CO., 39 Queen Street, Melbourne .
LEARN TO HYPNOTIZE!
m
PROF.
Reader, do you desire to become a Hypnotist? Do you want to know how to utilize the most
powerful and mysterious force of nature? Do you value control over others? Do you value the
means of securing friendship, love and personal influence? Do you value the power to conquer
pain and banish sickness, to reform a misguided friend, to gain business success, to win wealth,
position and happiness ? If you do, you must learn to Hypnotize. Why not ? No other accom-
plishment is so easily acquired. It can be mastered in a few hours time, without leaving your
home. It costs nothing to find out all about it. The greatest Hypnotist of the century has just
issued in book form a large and exhaustive TREATISE, OR INSTRUCTOR IN HYPNOTISM,
covering the whole ground of his Science, and he will send it while the edition lasts, absolutely
FREE TO ALL who apply. The book is profusely illustrated, containing beautiful and artistic
engravings, and shows as never was done before the principles, features, wonders
and uses of this mysterious Science, all in a popular and pleasing style. It tells
you just what Hypnotism is and hat you may accomplish with it. It shows you
how you may sway the minds of others, perform astounding feats,
and produce amusement by the hour. New and instantaneous
methods. Success absolutely guaranteed. Remember this grand
work costs you nothing. It benefits everybody who reads it. It
places you in touch with the wonder-science of the age. Read
it anyhow. It is absolutely FREE, Apply at once to—
R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
*>•?
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Yankee Rubber Baby, can be carried in vest
po?ket and blown out to life-size (causes roars of
laughter), Ali Baba’s Disappearing Jewel Casket, Book of
Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 Coin and Card
Tricks), Three Blind Mice Puzzle, The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character), The Mafeking Grub (or
nerve-strengthener), and, last of all, that side-splitting
Look and Laugh Glass, Instructions enclosed.
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
Box 3. p 0., Haymarket.
11. L. HUTCHINSON,
XNEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 George-street, SYDNEY.
CAN’T YOU BREATHE
freely ? Have you to sit up in bed gasping for
breath? If so, you are only one of a countless
number whose lives are made a burden to them by
ASTHMA.
If you wish to rest again at night, and breathe
with head erect by day, send ss. to NEWHAM
WATERWORTH, Edward-st., Brisbane,
who will forward post free a sample bottle of a
New Remedy for Asthma, a few doses of which
will prove to you that life i 3 still worth living.
Publications.
N€W som
i&Ki
VI
£
fit
IS
7
4V „ ” UTHOII 09
~After the Ball "
Theme ll Come a Tmi'Bmm the Nuts to Mothc.
P/IGC 2j‘
t
Allan & Co. Prop. Ltd
Melbourne
Read the Words
If You Please, Miss, Give Me Heaven.
“ Papa, I’m so sad and lonely,”
Sobbed a tearful little child ;
“ Since dear mamma’s gone to Heaven,
Papa, darling, you’ve not smiled.
I will speak to her and tell her
That we want her to come home;
Just you listen, and I’ll call her
Through the telephone:
Chorus—
“ If you please, Miss, give me Heaven—for my Mamma’s
there;
You can find her with the angels on the golden stair.
She’ll be glad it’s me who’s speaking—call her, won’t you,
please,
For I want to surely tell her we’re so lonely here.”
When the girl received this message,
Coming o’er the telephone,
How her heart thrilled in that moment,
And the wires seemed to moan ;
“ I will answer, just to please her:
‘ Yes, dear heart, I’ll soon come home.’ ”
“ Kiss me, Mamma, kiss your darling,
Through the telephone.”
Chorus —“ If you please, Miss,” etc.
+
If
PROP., Ltd.
276-278 COLLINS-ST., MELBOURNE.
LADIES-
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l.l 300 Collins St.j Melbourne


I do not ask you to spend
money to test "whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’
Dance, etc. All I ask of you
is to SEND for a FREE
Bottle and to try it, X abide
by the result. A safe remedy-
approved by the Medical
Profession.
H. G. ROOT, 28,Endsletgh
Gardens, London, N.W.
Free for Asking 1 .
%A#RITE to us and we will forward you our scientific
* * book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and bod3' will
vanish like magic, and you will be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
to Proprietor, Box 135, G.P.0., Adelaide, S.A.
TOOTH-ACHE
CURED INSTANTLY BY
Prevents Decay, Saves
Extraction, Sleepless Nights
Prevented.
Neuralgic Head aches & all Nerve
Pains removed by BUNTER’S
NERVINE. Of all Stores.
NERVINE
“As a specific for Tooth ache it has no equal. I have
used it successfully for years."—Prof. W. Wilson, M.D,
The BEST FAMILY MEDICINE
KAYE’S WORSDELL’S PILLS
Are a certain Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Head ache,
Dyspepya, Constipation, Liver and Kidney Complaints, &c.
Of all Stores.
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY,
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CDRE, 'will forward the same, free of
Charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER, G.P.0., BYDNEY.
FREE!
Send your name and
address to—
Chamberlain Medicine Co.
64 Elizabeth St., Sydney
(A Post Card will do).
and they will forward you a
Free Sample of
Chamberlain’s
.Stomach and
Liver Tablets
JUST WHAT YOU NEED,
<i¥lMtom\AYSC&
tK WEJKS AHT PHVS\C
C\.tKHS'C.*me5TOV\K«
V RiecvSiATt t v\t. un
\ ***
\Cm VftsmAW wd;
\ «TH3WMMt£.s>s££££
Vb
BETTER THAN PILLS.
The question has been asked : “In what
way are Chamberlain’s Stomach and
Liver Tablets superior to pills?” Our
answer is—they are easier and more pleasant
to take, more gentle and kind in their action
and more reliable, as they can always be
depended upon. Then they cleanse and
invigorate the stomach and leave the bowels
in a; natural condition, while pills are more
harsh in effect and their use is often followed
by constipation. Try and be convinced.
NOTE!.—If not able to obtain Chamber*
lain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets locally,
a package will be sent, post paid, upon
receipt of 1/6, or six packets for 8/-, by
addressing Chamberlain Medicine Co., 64
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. 119
B
THE ROAD
TO HEALTH IS
PAVED WITH
GOOD
DIGESTION.
VEGETABLE
Charcoal
Speedily cures Acidity. Flatulence, Heartburn,
Impure Breath, Indigestion, Diarrhoea, Sea. It
destroys all disease germs, and,absorbing all impuri-
ties in the stomach and bowels,gives a healthy tone
to the whole system. Wards off all attacks ol Typhoid
and other Fevers. Prevents many an illness.
BRAGG’S PURE CHARCOAL, POWDER in
Bottles; LOZENGES and BISCUITS in Tins
(pleasant to take). Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Having had complaints of the injury done by other
preparations,please see that each Bottle orTin bears
the Trade Mark ‘J.L.B., in monogram,'on the wrapper.
30 Days’ Trial.
V
m
£
c,
' V
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
KELTS and
ATELIAN CMS
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our“ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that i
will permanently cure you. If it does nob, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), trivintf
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
German Electric Appliance Agenoj?
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
* EVERY MAH 1
SUFFERING from DEBILITY and WEAKNESS should
s lid for a valuable Pamphlet explaining- how all
Nervous and Organic Derangem. nts may be success-
fully treated without stomach medication. The method
is easy and pleasant, and will effect a perfect and per-
manent cure. Sent in a plain sealed envelope free of
charge. E. NORTON, 59 &60 Chancery Lane, London,
m Eng. Over 30 years’ continuous success. ’
Why not buy Jewellery at Wholesale Prices
Note Well. WE are selling all kinds of Jewellery, Solid Silver Novelties, Brushes, Combs,
Shaving Mugs, Pin Trays, Match Boxes, and hundreds of other varieties
of the Silversmiths’art at clbSOl ITtcly Wholesale Rates,
Such a thing: has never been done before
in Sydney.
A few prices Plated Belts for Ladies, guaranteed to keep their colour, 4s.
are herein Solid Silver Hair Brushes — Just Fancy !—only 12s. 6d.
quoted :
Solid Silver Combs
4s.
We have over two thousand Ladies’ and Gent’s Gem Rings to select from at a clear saving
of Twenty-Five per cent, to the retail purchaser.
Come and see for yourselves, at
THE ENGLISH HALL MARKED
Federal Jewellery Company, Strand Arcade, Sydney
GOODS SENT POST FREE.
Make your own Stereoscopic Views.
%
The..•
No. 2
STEREO
KODAK.
. . . Price £4 3s. 6d.
LOADED AND UNLOADED IN DAYLIGHT.
iiiiiimiiimtimiliimmmiimiimiimiiiuiimiiimmniiiiiiiii
Send for Illustrated Ixeaflet, and mention this pap r.
KODAK Limited,
284 COIyIvINS BTRBBT, Melbourne.
PRIZE MEDAL DRESSING.
HAUTHAWAY’S
PEERLESS GLOSS
takes first prize medals at Boston, Vienna, London, Phila-
delphia, Melbourne, and all other leading cities, for pro-
ducing the finest possible polish, and absolute freedom
from all substances injurious to the leather.
It is the favorite dressing of the world for
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
shoes, as it is easily applied, retains its brilliancy, and will
not rub off and soil garments. Try it once and you will
use it always. Sold nearly everywhere. Made only by
€. L. HAUTHAWAY £> SONS,
BOSTON, MAS?
U. S. A.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEF.ORDS
MAGNESIA]
Dr. Clarkson’3 Electric Belt
vill till your Nerves with Electricity while you sleep; will restore the blood to a
healthy condition, and give yow new vim and confidence.
This Belt has been brought to the highest state of perfection by 20 years’ study and
xperiments. It is unlike any of the old style; belts, and is warranted to be stronger
ian any other body appliance made. It is guaranteed for one year, without auy
xpense for renewals or repairs.
Dr. Clarkson’s Be-luvigorator
rings the dawn of new life to every organ of your body. Ife charges the Nerves with
n ewed energy and causes your heart to beat stronger with the gladness of youthful
'gour.
To men who are Failing in Health, Sleepless, Despondent, Losing Memory, Dys-
optic, Weak in Stomach and Kidneys, who notice a weak, general coliaipse of all vital
'its, the combined treatment of Electricity with Dr. CLAKKSON’S RE-IN VIGOR ATOR
*.
ill bnii<>' happiness and health. The influence of these two agents on the Nerves and (Wans is truly wonderful.
THEIR. TOUCH IS MAGNETIC.
Price—ELECTRIC BELT, 10s. ; BJE-INVIGORATOR, 7s. 6d. per bottle, or Three Bottles for £l.
A„,,OEWRIT E - QWL CUT DK XJG- STORE,
y . CORNER AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
Lake Eyre.
Writes Ernest Favenc:—
Rightly or wrongly Home Sec. Lyne has been credited
with favoring the gigantic scheme of turning the waters
of the ocean into the thirsty bed of Lake Eyre (S.A.).
Some months ago in the Argus Prof. Gregory dealt ex-
haustively with this idea and proved, to the satisfaction
of most people, that the realisation of such a scheme is
impossible on account of its cost. Summed up: the
southern shore of the lake is 30ft. below, and the centre
is estimated to be 60ft. below the level of the sea. The dis-
tance from the centre of the lake to Port Augusta, at
the head of Spencer Gulf, is 266 miles. There is, there-
fore, a fall of 1 l-sin. to the mile, so that there is nothing
absolutely impossible in the scheme, as the fall, though
slight, would be sufficient for sea water to keep
the channel clear when it was made. But then comes
the question of evaporation. Roughly speaking the
evaporation of Lake Eyre is about Jin. per day,
and Lake Eyre, proper, if full, should cover 3200
sq. miles. But Prof. Gregory in support of his argument
is willing to accept only 2000 sq. miles. It may be
mentioned that, despite the mighty floods that in ex-
ceptional seasons come down the Cooper and Diamantina
Rivers, the oldest inhabitant has never seen Lake Eyre
full. Accepting the area to be flooded as 2000 sq. miles
the evaporation would total a daily loss of 7,000,000,000
gallons, so that the channel would have to have a carry-
ing capacity of that extent. Such a channel,. according
to the calculations of A. S. Kenyon, of the Water Supply
Dept., would need to be 1000 ft. wide and 10ft. deep. For
200 miles of the way the channel would be cut to a depth of
over 100 ft., and in one place 200 ft. Its cost would amount
to about £740,000,000 ! In return Australia would obtain
the doubtful benefit of a central salt lake 2000 sq. miles in
area, and of an average depth of 9ft. The atmospheric
moisture produced by this body of salt water would
probably induce a growth of turf sufficient to run sheep
on. The rain clouds would probably be too high to be
affected by its presence, and if, as Prof. Gregory says,
the sheep grew a golden fleece, the experiment might
pay for a while. But in time, possibly, ceaseless evapora-
tion of the sea water would create a deposit of salt which
would choke up the lake.
♦ * —“
“ iiilby ” discourses on the unfindableness
of dogs:
Did you ever try to locate a howling dog-fiend at the
dead of night? It is the most oonfusing job you ever
tackled. It is generally something like this : Your wife
and self have each pressed your pillows for, say, one hour
and a half, during the whole of which time the canine
horror has not found it necessary to slow down, not even
to scratch at a flea. Wife at last asks you straight out
whether you are a man—whether you really do mean to
let her be kept awake the whole night without even
making an effort to do something. You spring out of
bed with clenched teeth, the swear-words inside of you
fairly sizzling for want of an escape vent. You fling
open the window and look out. Then, after a careful
listen, you locate the exact yard from which the trouble
is coming, and as you slouch your way towards the back
door you draw pleasing pictures of your stick and that
dog’s body engaged in solid argument. Also, you vaguely
wonder why the owner of the dog does not himself rise
up and demolish him. All the way to the door the howl
continues, but the instant you open it the silence of death
is around you, except that from a far distant roof come
the faint strains of an pld tom-cat. You stand there a
full five minutes with your teeth chattering, and then,
hoping that it is really over, you return to bed,
better-half complaining that you make her feel
positively cold getting in and out of bed like this.
Directly your head reaches the pillow the howl begins
again. You strive not to think about it. Then you
spring out of bed, and if determination and curses can
stop it, this time it shall be done. You know that after
rain there is a puddle close to the back gate on the left-
hand side, or at all events it is so in daylight, and so by
keeping carefully to the right side you flop clean into it.
As you have only slippers on your bare feet the chill
of the water at once reduces their temperature to that of
an iceberg. Also one slipper comes off You grab hold
of it, shake out the water, jam the cold clammy leather
on to your foot, and grope for the gate latch which has
also during the night shifted its position from one side of
the gate to the other. At length you step out into the
back lane A huge dog in the opposite yard at once
starts music on his own account, which is instantly taken
up by others, and thus in about 30 seconds the identity of
the original howler is quite lost. He has established an
alibi, so to speak. You still stick to your old opinion,
however, and as soon as you reach the gate you begin to
frantically kick at it, calling out, “ Lie down you brute ! ”
Every dog within a radius of at least a quarter
of a mile is going strong. In desperation you try
the gate ; it is unlocked, and you look in. Not the
faintest vestige of a dog can you see. In fact, the more
you look the more convinced you become that it is
altogether the most undoggy-looking yard you ever did
see. Then you suddenly realise that the pandemonium
around you must have startled from slumber quite half a
hundred people by this time, and you yourself are in a
grand position to be potted as a runaway burglar, so you
scoot for your own gate, give a vigorous spring over
where you know the puddle ought to be, and land right
•n it again. After that you limp silently back to bed.
Wife has fallen asleep during interval in spite of extra
noise, but wakes as you enter to ask—“ Well, dear, did
you catch him?” You sullenly draw the blankets over
you, inwardly vowing that not all the dogs ever invented
will drag you out again. The last sound which reaches
you before falling asleep is the same old howl, coming
from the very yard you have just looked into—the yard
where there was dead silence and no dog.
A way-back Mayor, sent down with a col-
league to attend the Municipal Conference in
Sydney, and voted a liberal allowance beforehand
for the picnic, dropped clean out of sight and
sound for a fortnight. Then the acting-Mayor
got a wire: “I have been bad. Has alderman
(say) Firkin (the colleague) turned up yet ? ” And
alderman Firkin hadn’t.
A cave on the shores of Lake Rotoiti, in
the thermal district, Maoriland, recently gave up
its dead, and the bones of the defunct were so
huge that it was held that Maoriland was once
inhabited by a race of giants. An adjoining cave
gave up some more gigantic bones and also a
single-furrow plough and an old gun barrel.
What this last discovery “proves” the scientists
have not yet decided. A German exploring ex-
pedition recently discovered a large piece of an
American type of cross-cut saw at a great depth
among the ruins of Babylon. This doubtless
proves that Hezekiah and Merodach-Baladan used
to take tree-felling exercise for the good of their
health when they grew a trifle bloated with
reigning.


Piles and their Cure. —The pamphlet by
Albert Sharp, “Piles and How to Cure Them,”
without operation, by the latest Cannalin treat-
ment, sent free on application to 257 George-st.,
Sydney, or F. Buckhurst, Chemist, Melbourne,
or W. Wastell, Chemist, Adelaide.*
Martin’s Apiol and Steel Pills are sold by
all chemists throughout Australasia, price 4s. 6d.
Agents: Sayers, Allport, and Potter, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor, W. Martin, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.*
FLUID
OIL
CRUDE FLUID
POWDER
EMBROCATION
SOAPS
DISINFECTORS
INHALERS
FUMIGATORS
ANfTi
fiISINFECTINfi
FLUID.
I/-
COLORLESS
FRAGRANT
NON-
POISONOUB
DOES NOT
STAIN
KILLS ALL
DISEASE
CERMS
OXYGENATES
THE AIR.
Sulphur Candles - \
Formic Fumigators /
KINGZETT’S
PATENTS.
“HOW TO DISINFECT ” Book Froo
The “SANITAS ” CO., Ltd.
Bethnal Green, LONDON,
Missing Friends.
WILLIAM VALENTINE SINCLAIR,
LATE OF SPRINGSURE, QUEENSLAND ;
BOUNDARY RIDER, DECEASED.
THE NEXT-OF-KIN are requested to communicate
at once with
SWAN WICK & KAVANAGH,
Solicitors,
ROCKHAMPTON, Q.
HENRY LUCAS will learn of something to
his advantage by communicating with
ANNANi) & LEICHNEY,
Auctioneers,
Toowoomba, Queensland.
TJDWARD EGAN 7 son of James and Sarah
Egan (nee McVay), once settled in Volet
Town, and Kyneton, Vic., please communicate
with J. T. FIDLER GOORAM, Gong, Victoria.
Money awaiting you.
amusements.
HE AT RE ROYAL, MELBOURNE. ~
Lessee Mr. Bland Holt.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
Bus. Manager, James Hendv. Treas., Julius Grant.
S.W FRIDAY, OCT. 31st,
LAST NIGHT of the MAGGIE MOORE SEASON.
LAST NIGHT of UNCLE TOM’S CABIN.
SATURDAY, NOV. Ist, Return of . . .
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S Famous Dramatic Organisation
in the Successful TUC CAIffIRITE
Adelphi Drama, * iIE rAVUnIIE.
Prices —3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 6d and Is. Box Plan at Allan's.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Under the Direction of Mr. Frank Thornton.
IS* - FRIDAY, OCT. 31st,
LAST NIGHT OF THE FRANK THORNTON SEASON.
LAST NIGHT of the Evergreen Farcical Play,
THE PRIVATE SECRETARY.
PRICES—Dress Circle and Orchestra Stalls, ss. ; Stalls,
3s. ; Amphitheatre, One Shilling. Box Plan at Allan’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., E. J. Tait.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE TOREAPOR,
The Most Sumptuously Beautiful Production yet seen at
this Theatre, and a Superb Attraction for the
Racing Carnival.
Prices as Usual, Box Plan at Allan's.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. William F. Hawtrey.
Business Manager .. Leonard Davis.
EVERY EVENING, THE HAWTREY COMEDY CO.
First Production in Melbourne of the Great London
Success, the Uproariously Funny Farcical Comedy,
IN TNE SOUP.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. Matinee every Wednesday.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’ and The Grand.
R. BENTLEY YOUNG, Representative.
pITZGERALD BROS?
HUGE CIRCUS & MENAGERIE,
IN THEIR OWN PERMANENT BUILDING,
JUST ACROSS PRINCE’S BRIDGE, ST. KILDA RD., MELB.
GREAT CUP ATTRACTION.
A CIRCUS AND WILD ANIMAL SHOW SECOND TO
NONE IN EUROPE.
THERE IS NO BETTER CIRCUS BUILDING!
TO-DAY IN THE WORLD.
The New Combination of Continental and Australian
Artists forms the GREATEST SHOW IN AUSTRALIA,
and nightly wins the Enthusiastic Appreciation of
Immense and Brilliant Audiences. Such enterprise by
Australians is fully deserving the
GIGANTIC SUCCESS IT HAS ACHIEVED.
PRICES—4s., 35., 28., and One Shilling. Children half-
price to all parts (except the pit).
FRANK JONES, Representative.
Amusements.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Lessee Mr. Wm. Anderson.
Sub Lessee .. .. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING. EVERY EVENING.
BLAND HOLT’S Sporting and Spectacular Melodrama,
A MILLION OF MONEY.
POPULAR PRICES—3s,, 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
SOLE LESSEE .. .. Mr. JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
Manager ... Mr. Frank Weathersby.
OH! WHAT A HIT!
THE COMIC OPERA SEASON.
Enormous Success of the Bright Operatic Burlesque,
LITTLE
CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS
12
JOHN F. SHERIDAN
as
O’HOOLIGAN, THE DETECTIVE,
assuming;
Distinct Characters, including the Mighty
SAND-HOW.
Greeted with Screams of Laughter Nightly.
12
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY at 2.30.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES —35., 25., Is. 6d., & Is.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessees .. .. Henry Lee and J. G. Rial.
SUB-LESSEE and MANAGER, WILLIAM ANDERSON.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER i,
Special and Extraordinary Production of “ THE PLAY
OF THE CENTURY,”
Edmond Rostand’s Fascinating Poetical Romance,
CYRANO P€ BER<S€RAC.
By Special Arrangement with
MR. HENRY LEE,
who will appear in his Famous Impersonation of
CYRANO,
Assisted by Miss Eugenie Duggan and a complete
and adequate company.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is. Plan of Seats at Elvy’s.
ALEC. MIDDLETON, Business Manager.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Every Evening, at 8. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2,
The Latest and Greatest Dramatic Novelty,
SHERLOCK HOLMES.
Mr. CUYLER HASTINGS as SHERLOCK HOLMES,
Supported by Mr. Williamson’s
SPECIALLY ORGANISED DRAMATIC COMPANY.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Prices as Usual.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards
WONDERFUL SUCCESS OF THE NEW TIVOLI
VAUDEVILLE AND SPECIALTY COMBINATION.
The Great Harbecks
Mr. Victor Kelly
Magnificent Success of the
Miss Florrie Callimore
Little Eileen Boyd
MONTROSE COMPANY.
A G 'SPRY, TOD CALLAWAY, LES. WARTON,
Mr.' WALLACE BROWNLOW, DORA TAYLOR.
Dress Circle & Orchestra Stalls, 4s. ; Stalls, Ss. ; Family
Circle, until 7.40, 2s. ; after 7.40, Is. No Booking Fees.
ICKARDS’ NEW OPERA HOUSE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor and Manager—Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.30 p.m.
PAUL CINQUEVALLI.
Mr. & Mrs. SIDNEY DREW.
Willie SCHENCK BROTHERS Charlie
SAM HOLDSWORTH. FRED. POPLAR. KITTY WAGER.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. George Musgrove.
SATURDAY EVENING, NOV. Ist,
Mr. Geo. Musgrove’s New English Comedy Company.
FIRST PRODUCTION in Melbourne of the
Fascinating, Fantastical drama,
The Sorrows of Satan.
founded on G. A. Sala’s story of “ Margaret Foster,” and
Marie Corelli’s Famous Novel, The “ Sorrows of Satan.”
USUAL PRICES. Box Plan at Allan’s.
V < j
/
%
Refreshing and Agreeable.
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC
TOILET SOAP.
A pleasirit Antiseptic Soap (containing 10%
pure Carbolic Acid). Should be used regularly
to improve the skin and complexion and prevent
infection.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
Too Stout
I was for years ; by chance I came across a simple
remedy that reduced me from 17st. to lOst. 121 b., and
I will Willingly send particulars FREE to any sufferer
sending stamped and addressed envelope to
Madame Eugene, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney
Sending, mention this paper.
Psi
*v
*
Those
suffering
from weak
and sore eyes,
and blight, should'
SINGLETON'S OINTMENT
Never Fails. Restores Eyelashes.
ALL CHEMISTS.
MARY’S
LINIMENT
AN OLD-ESTABLISHED CURE
FOR All Chest Troubles, Lumbago,
Rheumatism, Sore Throat,
Sprains, Stiff Neck, Backache
and Kindred Complaints.
WHOLESALE AGENTS—
ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Limited,
C’Gonnall-street, Sydney,
AND TO BE HAD OF
ALL CHEMISTS.
MAKE YOUR OWN AERATED WATERS.
Soda Water costs
One Penny per Dozen,
Lemonade, Ginger Ale, etc.,
costs under 4d. per Dozen.
The “AUSTRAL" Machine
is vised by the H.M.S. Royal Arthur, etc.,
etc., of the Australian Squadron ; also in use
all leading Hotels and Railway Refreshment
Rooms throughout the Commonwealth.
kV\ \WV-
CAUTION. —Attempts are being made to
palm off spurious and clumsy imitations of our
AUSTRAL Machines. We have always been,
and still are, the SOLE PROPRIETORS and
ONLY MANUFACTURERS of these justly
renowned Machines.
Note the Address—
ECKERSLEPSONS,
214-216 Queen St.,
Melbourne,
A Distinct Advance iin Infant Feeding.
liR Tai first 3 mo*t*s
•“Ttriitßoar, Bind"*
N-> °* D»*J
f n 4 Hanbo
™n & Ha®ur?
iohdom.^OT^
Vi
?t>e"
THE
00 CIS*
The Allciiburys ” Foods provide nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers
of itfhe Infant, and constitute an altogether distinct advance on the mischievous expedient of trying
to make the child’s stomach accomodate itself to a food essentially unsuited to its digestive powers.
Ftrlmomus foods of all kinds are totally unfit for infants under five or six months of age such foods
being a potent cause of digestive troubles, rickets, and many disorders arising from mal-nutrition.
Allenburys” Foods are especially valuable in hot
The
climates. They are in the form of powder and keep perfectly
Pamphlet on “ INFANT FEEDING ” (48 pages) free, from
495, Bourke Street, Melbourne.
ALLEN & HANBURYS, Ltd., London, Eng.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to three months.
MILK FOOD No, 2.
From three to six months.
MALTED FOOD No. 3.
From six months and upwards.
At Poverty Point.
“ E.” : Touching the things that Sandow said “ pant-
ingiy ” to the crowd of Sydney medicoes and pressmen,
vide Sporting Notions, 25th October. Unless the muscle
exponent had changed his doctrines since he met the
medicoes and pressmen in Melbourne, he did not advise
his audience against taking a cold bath “ immediately ”
after violent exercise when “ the body is steaming.” He
said the athlete should not take a bath instantly, but
should give the heart a chance to resume its normal
action. The advisable pause is very brief. A heated
body doesn’t get its full steam on until the heart-excite-
ment has abated. Then, as to Sandow’s “ panting ” when
he addresses the critical crowd. Surely no one supposes
him to be so “out of condition” that he is incapable of
speaking a few words without getting blown. The
breathlessness in question may be ascribed to Sandow’s
nervousness and his nationality—especially the latter.
He talks much the same as all Germans talk in any
foreign tongue. The endeavour to get away from his
native accent is always rather distressing to a German,
and Sandow labors in that direction.
“S.S." : After sitting out Maggie Moore's staging of
“ Arrah-Na-Pogue," at Melb. Royal, the other night, I
came away, thinking very kindly' of the dead-and-gone
Boucicault. How very superior were the audiences who
delighted in this kind of thing to those who can only be
attracted now-a-nights by locomotives, steam-cranes,
explosions, or a sensational house-afire ! Boucicault’s are
legitimate melodramas ; not the best art, of course, but
art nevertheless and very worthy. “ Arrah-Na-Pogue ”
is a well-told story, the characters are fully conceived
and cleverly drawn, the dialogue neat, natural and
spangled with wit, the sentiment honest and healthy.
Alas, that it should be only the hand-to-mouth com-
panies that stage these things now! With artistic
scenery and accessories and a picturesque company,
surely “Arrah” would fetch them again. Surely the
lovers of melodrama have not wholly abandoned human
interest for the sake of the dramatic bricks and mortar,
amongst which the wooden puppets of the present day
cockney dramatists bob about on their several wires?
Giving evidence before the Arbitration Court in con-
nection with the pro. musicians’ trouble, J. O. Williamson
remarked that he paid £lOOO for the Australian rights of
“ San Toy,” and an additional £6O for every week that he
played it. How green the shades of the mid-Victorian
dramatists must be with envy ! The author of “ Box and
Cox” was glad to get a fiver for his farces, while Albery,
Byron, and even Robertson thought themselves lucky to
get £5O for the sole rights of a drama. Gilbert was about
the first to demand the percentage principle, he and
Sullivan receiving 12J per cent, of the nightly takings.
Pinero is supposed to receive 7£ per cent, of the gross,
which explains Harry Paulton’s perhaps envious remark
that Arthur lives on his failures.
“D. le R.”: An opinion frequently expressed after
hearing Melba : “ I would as soon listen to Dolores.” As
well compare an exquisite water-color with a master-
piece in oils.
Ada Delroy, now appearing at Melb. Opera House in
Loie Fuller’s spectacular dances, is a sister of the famous
Marie Loftus, and aunt of the still more famous Cissie
Loftus, Irving’s leading lady.
Wilson Barrett is said to have made so much money,
and suffered from so many flesh-reducing ailments in
S’Africa, that he is now looking years younger than when
he left Australia. The idea of W.B. renewing his youth
is decidedly painful.
The next attack on Australia with brass and drum will
most likely be from the North of England. Boosey’s
agent, out here in connection with the Ballarat trombone
contest, says that the Besses o’ the Barn Band is coming
next year, if it can raise the wind. There are in England
between 300 and 400 brass-band contests every season ;
and if this threatened invasion should set the same thing
going here, Ooghlan will have to make numerous severe
changes in his statistics.
G. W. Elton’s comedy, which Hawtrey produced under
the hopeless title of “Oh! Mr. Pennilove” (Hawtrey
invented that title), had been pretty considerably
dealt with by the stage manager, it seems. The
author meant it for a humorous comedy, and Hawtrey
turned it into a farce. There is no holding a stage
manager who happens to be sole boss of the show.
He does as he likes with a piece, and sees nothing but
improvement in the alterations he makes. Your stage
manager is the most egotistical of editors. Present scribe
recalls to mind the failure of a play called “ The Lost
Paradise,” at Melb. Princess’s many years ago. It was
taken firstly from a German drama of socialistic interest
—Labor o. Capital—and if the original translation had
been adhered to, it might have been a draw. But the
accepted German work didn’t please Emery, who was
then stage-managing for “ the Firm.” Wouldn’t do at
all, bless you 1 Emery had to take it in hand. Out
hunks out of it, put “ nice little bits” into it—in tact,
“improved” it beyond all possibility of success. And
didn’t he glory in those mutilations and amendments !
Polly Emery, the most naturally-humorous actress this
country ever saw, plays the cockney slavey Fi Fi in one
of the English co.’s touring with “ A Chinese Honey-
moon.”
In Westralia they are still dreaming about
walling out the rabbit from the settled districts,
and a scheme is on hand for a loan to build a per-
manent and reproductive wire fence, and for the
supply of wire netting to farmers on 20 years’
credit. It seems a hopeless game, but one excuse
for a loan is about as good as another.


TWO TENORS SING PRAISES
OF THE NEW END WONDERFUL ELECTRO-MEDICAL SYSTEM.
When men are weak and practically disabled in life, they should avoid disaster which may end in Death. Mew Vigor, new Life, new
Strength, and unlimited Physical Power can be given by adopting for a short period the Electro-Medical Treatment or the judicious
uses of Electricity and Medicine. People are cured daily by this system who were otherwise classed as “INCURABLE.”
REMARKS.
WE have from time to time demonstrated, as leading physiologists and pathologists in the scientific world,
the fact that the permanent healing of grievous health destroying diseases lies in the possession of a perfect know-
ledge of the causation and phenomena concerning them, and the accurate methods of treating them. Any practi-
tioner can prescribe for a complaint and treat it with that professional care embodied in set formula. 1 >ut evei y
practitioner cannot heal or cure a disease. Honestly they endeavour, and unsuccessfully fail. Everywhere men and women try their doctors, receiving
little benefit. Millions of people suffer from chronic nerve and vital functional disorders, and never become cured of them, because they do not appeal to
the right sources. What the average medical man CANNOT CURE WTTPI HIS SE1 1 FORMULAS and obsolete forms of treatment, the
SPECIALIST, with his new ideas and modes of treatment, assisted by special knowledge, can. This is proven
BY THOUSANDS OF UNIMPEACHABLE TESTIMONIALS
received by THE SPECIALISTS of the FREEMAN and WALLACE INSTITUTE, in cases undertaken (and which they guarantee to cure) of nerve
and muscular disorders, stomach affections, etc.
Their new methods of nerve and physical strength restoration, by the employment of Electro-Therapeutic agents, is a new system, qualified by
singular success. Patients OCCUPYING THE HIGHEST POSITIONS in the world of Art and Letters, Sport and Commerce, gladly testify to great
cures. Electricity is Life, if judiciously applied by means of an ELECTRIC “ INVIGORATOR ” with reconstructive remedies, and such diseases as
HYSTERIA, INSOMNIA, PALPITATION, SCIATICA, EPILEPSY, BRAIN-FAG, EXHAUSTED VITAL FUNCTIONS, RHEUMATISM,
LUMBAGO, ABDOMINAL WEAKNESS, PILES, ST. VITUS’ DANCE, or CHRONIC or FUNCTIONAL NERVE DISORDERS, are surely
and permanently cured.
A DISTINGUISHED
PATRON.
♦
MR. PHILIP NEWBURY, the
famous English robust tenor, so
intimately known and so popu-
larly appreciated by all Australian lovers
of exquisitely superb vocalisation, was so
benefited by a course of the Electro-
Medical treatment that in a letter to the
SPECIALISTS he says :
“A fetv weeks 9 course of your
Klectro-Medical Treatment, during
which, I wore one of your famous
Aerve - Restoring Electric * IN-
VIGOHATOItS,’ has benefited me
greatly. For years I suffered from
Uric Acid in the Blood, with Rheu-
matic tendencies, but, thanks to
your Electric ‘IN VIGORATORf
I am note completely cured.
Fours faithfully,
Graceful as this eulogy is, it is none
the less sincere, expressed by one whose
attainments are generally beloved
throughout Australasia. It verifies the
fact that in the cure of nerve diseases,
electricity judiciously applied by a skilled
SPECIALIST is unequalled as an im-
mediate remedy.
MR. PHILIP NEWBURY, the Distinguished English Tenor.
AN EXQUISITE
EULOGY.
c> ~
CARLO DANI, the sweet
Italian operatic tenor, the vocal star
of the ROYAL IT ALT ANT
OPERA COMPANY, recently suffered
from inertia of the nerve system, and
great lassitude. For a few weeks he
wore one of the Electric “ INVIGOR-
ATORS ” manufactured for the SPECI-
ALISTS. In a graceful tribute written
to their skill he says :
“I have much pleasure in in -
forming you that owing to the great
lassitude I have experienced here,
due, no doubt, to sudden climatic
changes, 1 have been induced to try
one of 'your Electric ‘ Invigorators,’
from which I have obtained great
benefit to my nervous and muscular
systems.
Yours cordially,
Such a testimony from such an eminent
source proves the value and efficacy of
the only supei’ior Electric “ Invigorator ”
sold in the States, the full particulars of
which are below appended. Be careful
when purchasing an Electric “BELT”
that you secure one certified by local
electricians.
If you suffer from Insomnia, Functional Heart Trouble, Epilepsy, Hysteria, Weakness, Kidney Dis=
order, Aching Back, Rheumatism, Uric Acid in Blood, Sciatica or Neuralgia, an Electric “ Invigorator,”
with reconstructive remedies, will soon put you right. Electricity goes right to the Spot. Eor many weak-
nesses peculiar to women the “ INVIGORATOR ” is an infallible cure.
All attestants may be interviewed. The SPECIALISTS’ treatment is sure and effective. Improvement is rapid and certain.
You need not fear but that you WILL REC O VER if you try a course of Electro-Medication. It acts at once on the nervous centres, animating the nerves, re-strengthening the muscular
system, equalising the circulation, improving the bl'ood-stream. It clears the brain, strengthens and regulates the beating of the heart, and makes a man or woman healthy and strong, AS
NATURE INTENDED THEM TO BE. A man is no longer feeble under this treatment; he REGAINS ALL HIS LOST STRENGTH, and finds no PHYSICAL TRIAL that he cannot
conquer. It is the finest medium in the world to physical peace and domestic harmony.
PRICES.
£3 ; Solid Gold, £lO (2oz. 18ct. Gold),
The Prices of these wonderful curative “INVIGORATORS” are as follow:
Copper Plate, £1 ; Silver Plate, £1 10s ; Solid Silver,
The Specialists hold Certificates of Efficacy unpossessed by others, and give private tests to anyone who cares to call. Two leading Sydney electricians
assert they are '‘electrically perfect, and their currents are continuous as used for medical purposes.”
These “.INVIGORATORS ” are the only Electric “ Belts ” sold in Australia which possess true non-conducting vulcanite insulation, without which no
Electric “Belt ” can give a continuous electric current useful for medical purposes. Any electrician will verify this fact.
The Specialists* Fees : Advice & Medicine, ONE POUND only.
CREDENTIALS.
N INE Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration of the Physician-in-
Cii'ief by the Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia,
England and America, open for public inspection at the Institute. Late Homoeopathic
Hospital, Melbourne, and British Imperial Army Medical Staff.
Sir DOMINIC CORRIGAN, Bart., Physician to the late Queen, speaking of the
Physician-in-Chief, says:—-“I entertain a high opinion of Dr. Wallace in regard to his
professional qualifications. ”
“ CLINICAL EXPERIENCES.”
CONTAINING 550 pages of medical literature, 150 full and half-page medical illustra-
tions, fully explains, in the chapter devoted to Electricity, the general laws governing
the application of electricity to the human frame. An exhaustive exposition of the systems
employed in the doctrine of Electro-Medication is given, showing the benefits to be derived
from a judicious use of the Electric Bath, Battery, or Belt. The uses of these are
individually explained. This valuable medical work is posted free to any address on receipt
of ONE SHILLING IN STAMPS.
™‘ FREEMAN * WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAI —b,
and SURGICAL INSTITUTE
ELIZABETH and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY,
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director. Medicines packed Free From Observation and sent to all parts oF Australia.
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R C.P., ( E,, L.F.P.S., E., L.M., Phytsician-in-ChieF. Letters treated with ProFessional Secrecy and promptly replied to.


Severe Attack of
Influenza
Followed by Bronchitis, which left
him weak, languid and depressed
Here is a case of a gentleman who was
left in a very delicate state of health
through a severe attack of influenza fol-
lowed by bronchitis. He lost flesh rapidly,
and became very weak, as the following
letter shows :
“ Robert Street, Plumstead,
“London, England,
“ December 2nd, 1900.
“ Dear Sirs, —About six months ago I had
a severe attack of influenza followed by
bronchitis, which left me very weak, languid
and depressed. I lost two stone in weight
and was so weak that my legs used to give
way, and often had to stop and rest to gain
my breath. I tried many things but gained
no benefit. Seeing an advertisement about
Scott’s Emulsion I prooured a bottle to see
what it would do for me. I soon began
MR. FRANK HOWARD-
IFrom a photograph.)
to feel it was doing me good, for I felt
stronger, my -appetite improved, I lost
the wretchedly depressed feeling I had
felt and became stronger and better in every
way. I continued the treatment and took
several bottles, with the result that my
health was completely re-established, and
words quite fail me to express the gratitude
I feel for all that Scott’s Emulsion has done
for me. I can with every confidence recom-
mend the preparation to anyone suffering
as I did, and remain,—Very sincerely yours,
“ (Signed) Fkank Howard.’’
The benefits people derive from Scott’s
Emulsion are in no way exaggerated. The
letters we publish from people who have
tested our preparation are published just
as they are written, and in each case every
effort is made to get at the exact truth.
Scott’s Emulsion will not accomplish the
impossible, of course, but that it is a standard
remedy, endorsed by all physicians, and
approved of by all who take it, is unquestion-
able.
You cannot judge of the possibilities of
cod-liver oil and hypophosphites until you
have tried the genuine Scott’s Emulsion,
which may be distinguished by our trade
mark of a man holding a big fish over his
shoulder. Where health is at stake, it does
not pay to experiment with cheap nostrums.
You can obtain a sample of Scott’s Emulsion
by sending fourpenceto Scott & Bowne, Ltd.
483 Kent street, Sydney, and mentioning this
paper. All chemists sell Scott’s Emulsion.
rHE GREAT
BENDIGO
EXHIBITION
ART UNION
To be drawn at Bendigo on
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24.
TOTAL PRIZES, £2400
£lOOO f<>f is-
£l 000 for Is.
PRIZES TO.THE.< £9^oo
VALUE OF XaHUW DISTRIBUTED.
lie full value of the first prize, less 10 per cent. ; for £250
rorth of the second prize, and for £l5O of the third prize
lictures. The winners of the fourth to the twelfth prizes
fill have the option of selecting their own pictures.
LAST WEEKS OF SALE.
Secure your Tickets Early from all Stores, Newsagents,
and Stationers throughout Australia.
GEO. V. ALLEN,
General Secretary,
17 Garraway’s Chambers, Queen’s Walk,
Oollins Street, MELBOURNE, opp. Town Hall
Nature’s Pleasant Laxative,
California Syrup of Figs
The Best Family Medicine.
=3*
Acts
Gently
on
Kidneys,
Liver
and
Bowels,
overcoming
Habitual
Constipation
WHY ITS FAME IS WORLD-WIDE.
The excellence of California Syrup of Figs is due to its pleasant
form and perfect freedom from every objectionable quality or substance,
and to the fact that it acts gently and truly as a laxative without in any
way disturbing the natural functions. The requisite knowledge of what
a laxative should be and of the best means for its production enable
the California Fig Syrup Co. to supply the general demand for a
laxative, simple and wholesome in its nature and truly beneficial in its
effects; a laxative which acts pleasantly and leaves the internal organs
in a naturally healthy condition and which does not weaken them.
The Good it Does is Permanent,
Aik for California Syrup of Figs, and look for the Name and Trade Mark of the California
Fig Syrup Co, O. all Chemists, is. ild. and is. 9d.
LONDON: 32 SNOW Hill. SYDNEY: 7 Barrack Street.
Skii
TRADE MARK.
m
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
(FURRED TONGUE.
(
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY in
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
They TOUGH
the
L
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
Be Sure they are
2h.p. to IOOH.p.
KBNO marine oil engines.
Launches built 20ft. to 80ft. overall.
i H\n9lWtrtllUtrTTWJf//A , .f>
Noiseless Uuderwater . . .
Exhaust.
Perfect Gas Generator.
Double Cylinder.
Automatic Oil Feed.
Simple Electric Ignition
with Dynamo.
J. F.
Telephone 2671.
WITH THc KINJ LNuINt —UNE LEVER CONTROLS THE WHOLE.
McDBBLMOTT & COMI* A3XTY,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Seraphina.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
* I.
She was a picture. If you have seen Greuze’s
children, or Sir Joshua’s angels, then you have
seen something like Seraphina. She was sitting
on a log, a little away from the cluster of cottages
which mainly composed the township, looking up
at the evening star as it nestled dreamily in the
soft blue bed of the sky.
But Seraphina was not dreaming. She was
listening to the sound of footsteps swish-swishing
through the long, dried grass.
“ So you have come, dear,” she said, greeting a
man’s lips with a woman’s kiss, for all her child-
ishness. “And now, Dick,” she continued, in a
voice which sounded almost too practical, coming
from such sweet little lips—“now, Dick, what do
you propose to do ? ”
“What can I do ? You know I have not a
shilling to bless myself with.”
“Nevertheless, you will have to marry me,
Dick, dear. What would you say if your little
girlie found you £500? Would you marry her
then ?”
I “Well, yes, little one, I suppose so. But where
is the £5OO to come from ?”
“Where money generally does come from, the
bank. You know that spooney ninny, the new man-
ager; he says he would die forme. I won’t trouble
him to do that. I’ll just test his sincerity by asking
him to borrow all the gold in the safe for me.”
“He will never be such an ass! But suppose
he does?”
“ There is no suppose about it. I can make any
man in the world do as I wish —all except you ! ”
she added ruefully. “Only promise you will
marry me, and you shall see.”
The man’s face darkened perplexedly for a
moment, then, as if struck by a happy thought,
he laughed softly.
“Oh, I promise.” he said, “I swear it —on the
Bible, if you like.”
“No, swear it on my lips. So! that is better,
Now go. Quick Dick ! Don’t kiss me ; hurry,
here comes our financier.” And the sweet child-
woman resumed her contemplation of the evening
star.
11.
Again a step was heard upon the grass, and
again the Greuze-maiden smiled a welcome into
admiring eyes—grey-greenish this time —timid,
craving, cowardly, but deadly earnest all the
same.
“ What, you, Mr. Gaskin ! Oh, lam so glad ! ”
“Glad, are you ?”
“Oh, awfully ! Come, sit down,” purred the
child-woman, drawing her skirts coquettishly
round her, and making the most of every curve of
her graceful, fairy shape. “There now!” she
continued, taking the clammy hand that throbbed
through all its clamminess. « t ‘Mr. Gaskin—
William ! ”
The man had never before been called caress-
ingly by his Christian name by a pretty woman’s
lips in all his days.
“Yes, William! Don’t take your arm away—
so ! How cold you are ! Yes, and lam going to
tell you something. You love me, dear, don’t
you ? And I am worth loving, am I not ? ”
Seraphina turned her angelic face to the moon-
light, and the moon and all the stars and William’s
eyes said “yes, a thousand times.”
“William, I had a dream last night. Would
you like to hear it ? Of course you would ! ”
Seraphina shifted her lover’s awkward, inexperi-
enced hand up from her waist till it rested on her
little, soft, warm, fluttering bosom. “What was
I saying ; oh, my dream ! Yes, that was it. I
dreamt that the bank was robbed.”
William started.
“Yes, you went to bed one night, and when
you awoke in the morning you found the safe had
been broken open and all the gold stolen—no
papers, no cheques, no notes, nothing but the gold
was taken. Of course no one suspected you, but
somehow you had the money —you and I. You
had given it to me to take care of till the noise of
the burglary quieted down. Then, in a few days
or weeks, the nine days’ wonder was forgotten,
and we were married. We went away together,
you and I ; far away from this stupid place, and
began a new life—a life of happiness, and content,
and unending love ! ”
Again she turned the irresistible loveliness of
her face towards the trembling creature at her
side, and again he gazed into the unfathomable
depths of those compelling eyes, and from thac
moment he was lost.
“William,” she whispered, “shall my dream
come true? Ah, yes, it will, it must —no, no
words —to-night, kiss me to-night, to-night ! ”
He lowered his haggard face to meet her up-
stretched arms, and throwing them around his
neck she kissed him. And he never felt the
shudder that shook her from his arms.
111.
Again the evening star was dreaming in the
sky, and again the Greuze child-woman sat upon
the fallen log, while overhead the gum-trees
whispered. And sometimes they had listened,
too, as Nature will, on a moonlight night, and this
is what they heard :
“ Ah, William, you have the money ! Oh, you
darling boy ! Give it me- quick ! How much is
it ? Oh, it is heavy ! Good night! No, not now
—kisses will keep. Good night! ”
“Dick, Dick, darling Dick ! Yes, it’all came-
off. I have the money. What! Give it to you ?
Why, Dick ? Isn’t it safer with me ? What! I
don’t trust you ! Oh, Dick, have I not trusted you
—with ray life—and more ! ”
All this the tall gums heard, and never told.
And Seraphina stood by the fallen tree, once more
alone. She was dressed in her riding-habit now,
and beside her stood her beautiful mare, Trixey, a
gift from her wealthy and elderly admirer, Mr,
Robert Huncks, of Misery Station. The mare
seemed impatient; so did Seraphina. Soon the
canter of a horse was heard approaching. But
Seraphina sighed when she saw the rider was only
Sergeant Connolly.
“Morning, Miss Carlyon,” said the sergeant.
“ Heard the news, Miss Carlyon ? ”
“ About the burglary ? ” asked Seraphina, turn-
ing pale.
“No; about the wedding. Masher Dick and
Gracie Frilling, of the Black Swan. Runaway
match. Married at 10 this morning by Father
Maroney; off by the 10.30 to Sydney. Sudden,
wasn’t it ? ”
Seraphina turned and walked towards her horse,
placed her tiny foot on the stirrup, hesitated, and
faced round. “Mr. Connolly,” she said, slowly,
“are you sure, quite sure, it was Dick—Mr.
Alston, you know?”
“ Rather ; saw them off myself. But why ? ” '
“Oh, nothing much; only, do you know, I
saw Diok Alston here last night. He passed me
at eleven o’olock. I wonder what brought him
here so late” Seraphina broke off perplexedly
and looked up meaningly as if for confirmation of
something she feared to ask.
“ What ! Alston here—so late, too ? By than
der ! —it’s like enough ! ”
“Surely,” said Seraphina, “you do not
suspect?”—
The Sergeant wheeled round.
“Good-night, Miss Carlyon,” he laughed, as he
rode away—“shouldn’t wonder if you have put a
new stripe on my sleeve ! ”
* * * ■
“ G’d evening, my pretty, ” said old Mr. Huncks,
who happened to pass at the moment. “Going
for a ride, my dear ? ”
“I was,” said Seraphina.
Excerpts from Abagona Chronicle :
Jan. 17, 1902. Concluding, his Honor said : “ Richard
Alston, you have been found guilty of burglariously enter-
ing the Bank of Australia, at Aragona, and stealing there-
from £529 and a bag of gold-dust, on the night of December
the 10th last. The charge has been clearly proven. You
were seen lurking near the bank late on the night of the
robbery, you were arrested with the gold in your posses-
sion, under circumstances which suggest an ample motive
for your crime. But your offence does not end there. In
your defence, you have dared to assert that this burglary,
of which you stand convicted, was conceived and planned
by this innocent and virtuous young lady, and carried
out by her accomplice, Mr. Gaskin, a gentleman whose
character is as much above suspicion as yours is ques.
tionable. More than this, you have the infamous effron-
tery to ask the jury to believe that this sweet
and guileless child—for she is but a child —has been
guilty of conduct which, if one could for a moment
credit it, would blast and blacken all her fair young life.
The sentence is that you be imprisoned for ten years
with hard labor, and I only regret the law does not
allow me to award the heavier punishment which your
conduct deserves.”
Jan. 27, 1902. At St. Paul’s, Aragona, Seraphina,
daughter of David Carlyon, to Robert Huncks, Esq., of
Misery Station.
June 20. Robert Huncks, Esq., of Misery Station,
aged 72 years.
June 22. At Misery Station, Mrs. Seraphina Huncks of
a daughter.
M.


When Dry Dog George was stumping
Ballarat district recently he was button-holed by
an old Scotchman with regard to the points
of his city as a Federal Capital. “What advan-
tages are possessed by your town?” haughtily
queried Reid. The ancient enumerated fully a
score and finished up by fervently exclaiming,
“Why, mon, luke at oor ceemetary. Ye cudna
be buried in richer groon’ in a’ the warl. Maybe,
for a’ ye ken, fhere'll be a fine big nugget or twa
lyin’ on tap o’ ye, an’ thot’s no to be sneeshed at.”
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK
A Handsome Cloth-bound Volume of oyer 300 pages.
The Best Collection of Short Stories and Literary-
Sketches yet produced in Australia. Price, 4s. 6d.;
postage, 6d.
According to the Federal Attorney-Gene-
ral :
Since the passing of the Pacific Islanders Act, Kanakas
have decreased by 3000. Next year, only 600 can be
introduced to Queensland, and the following year prohi-
bition will be absolute.
Milner’s hair has turned grey and his
shoulders have stooped during the past three
years. That despatch recommending the suspen-
sion of the Cape Constitution — advice rejected.by
boss Chamberlain—has wrecked him in S’Africa,
and he realises it. So they are “ promoting ” him
to India.
Beanie's Bronchitis Cure.
■X’-JdLJbS FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OP ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OIF* COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
‘Mr. Hearne. —
“ Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of Lo ndon, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
Aementioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You nan see for yourself what an immense success
it was. —Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That,was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS* TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Dergholra, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“Yours faithfully,
“ JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS
“I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
•
“Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending- for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M‘DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
•
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAIIILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
•
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
O
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at w’hat it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W."
•
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne."
•
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous. —F. A. PACKER, Qujera, Neutral Bay, Sydney', N.S.W."
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
•
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle. —W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” •
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of mv brief trial.—JOHN C.’
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
•
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness. —HENRY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
•
“ The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
“169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
yvho during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony.
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 38
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
‘ THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Es(j. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
branch depot Qffi ce . jf o Yirst Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally .
The SMELTING & REFINING CO. of AUSTRALIA
1902., Limited. WORKS: DiLPTOi Lalse Illawarra (56 MILES FROM SYDNEY)
SMELTERS
AND
REFINERS
SILVER
LEAD
BULLION
BRt ii *
■- • •' )
mm
< .'■
V. Sss*
. ?/
Assay Offices, General Offices, Store and Sulphuric Chamber.
MAKERS OF
S. Co, of Australia
AND
“ ILL AW AURA”
BRANDS OF
SOFT LEAD.
Highest Price paid for GrOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, and JEWELLERS’ SWEEP, &c.
For all information regarding Rates, apply to HEAD OFFICE, DAPTO.
AsH- Jri.Txt3.<3.er &: CO.,
■Agents.
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay»
W. L. HOYT, Manager.
“ Retained when
all other Foods are
rejected. It is in-
valuable.”
London Medical Record.
Food’
has by its excellence
established a repu-
tation of its own.”
British Medical Record.
GOLD MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged. Delicious, Nutritive, and Digestible.
Benger’s Food is sold by Chemists, &c., Everywhere
Extracts from P< ivate
Letters.
“My last little boy was
fed entirely upon it from
birth, and a healthier
child it would be difficult
t > find. My wife sounds
the praise of ‘ Benger’s
Food ’ everywhere.”
“If every mother knew
of its value, no other
would be used.


Presents that mill please
fOU cannot possibly be disappointed by visit*
ing us, so come here whether you have
a definite idea of what you want or not.
We offer you the biggest variety and the most
reasonable prices it is possible to offer.
If you have not seen our new Catalogue,
ask us for one. If you live out of town
send us your name end address on a post*
card and you will get one by return mail.
No. F47OS.
Silver-plated
and Pearl
Bread Fork,
11 s 6d.
No. F3462.—Fine Leather, and Silver-
Mounted Pocket Book, 10s 6d.
m
No.
F3939.—Gent.’s silver Hair
Brush, 21s
No. 374 A Silver-plated Tea Spoons
and Tongs, 10s Gd.
No. 363.—A1 Silver-plated Sugar Tonga,
3a 6d.
No. 253.—501 id Silver Match Box, 103 6d.
Silver
Glove
Buttoner,
Is 6d.
No. 20.— Gent.’s Opal
Ring, 18ct. gold,
£l los.
No. E 8031.— Tasteful 9ct. Gold Bangle, £ll7s. 6d.
No. B4B9o.—Dia-
mond Ruby and
18ct. Gold Ring,
No. M.—l6ct. Gold and Opal Fly Brooch, £llss
No. 120.—15 ct. Gold, Diamond and Kuby
Brooch, £2 7s Gd.
No. 121A.—15ct. Gold Anchor Brooch,
£ll2s 6d.
No. E6251.—9ct. Gold Bird and Heart
Brooch, 12s 6d.
15ct. CoU Heavy E..nd Bracelet. £4 4s. Smaller, £3
No. E6659.—9ct. Gold Engraved Bracelet, £1 17s Od.
No. 193.—Links, 9ct.
Gold, 15s 6d. 15c.
Gold, £llos. Silver,
4s Od.
No. 197.-'Links, 9ct. Gold,
£1 ss. 15ct. Gold, £2 ss.
Silver, Cs 6d.
No. E7707.—0ct. Gold,
Pearl and Turquoise
Lace Brooch, £1 la.
Pine Diamond Marquise
Bing, £4O.
No. 241.
Diamond - set
Scarf Pin,
£3 17s 6d.
No. 240.
15ct. Gold
and Pearl
Pin, £1 6s.
No. F 6128. —Silver-plated Toast
Rack, 12s 6d.
'
No. F 3562. —Silver Cabinet Photo.
Frame, 16s 6d.
No. E 6444. Engraved
A 1 Silver-plated Napkin
_ Ring, 6s 6d.
No. E 8499.— Purse and Card Case,
4 Silver Corners and Lock, £1 Is.
No. 859.—Silver-plated Breakfast
Cruet, 13s 6d.
No. E 7072.— Silver
and Ivory Battle,
13s 6d.
Fine Opal and 15ct.
Gold Heart, £6 5s
Smaller, 755.
Silver-plated
Spectacle
Case, Us 6d.
GE
GE
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL ELECTRIC
INCANDESCENT LAMPS.
THE EDISON LAMP abs ?he t lest,
Annual Sales, 18,000,000.
After Competitive Tests, 63,750 were purchased by the Melb. City Council.
LONG LIFE, HIGH EFFICIENCY.
!Large Stock always on hand.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.,
Equitable Buildings,
Melbourne & Sydney
Motors, Dynamos, Steam Dynamo Sets, &c., also in Stock.
GE
GE


A S’African correspondent to The Bul-
letin :
“ A White Australia ” with a vengeance I Australians,
rushing S’Africa, and landing at Durban, are herding with
Coolies—in Coolie locations. They are grateful for any
hovel. And Australia-bound boats from S’African ports
are already crowded. The sequel of the S’African mirage.
A. <& F.
PEARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Notice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd.
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Ltd.
Explorations in Civilization.
(BEING THE LETTERS OF AN AUSTRALIAN IN
EXILE.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Day After To-Morrow. —I slept at my
Australian friend’s diggings last night, and am
installed there. The chambers are quiet except
for the many church bells, whose name is Ana-
thema. Our windows look on to the rude walls
and part of the churchyard of St. Anne s, Soho.
As a matter of fact, these flats are built on por-
tions of the cemetery. To look out of the win-
dows of a morning, and see the naked trees
dripping on the still existing tombs, and the
church spire lost in the fog, is to have a
truly hilarious time. And I begin to feel
like howling for a sight of Australian sun —to lust
for a clean atmosphere as a sailor for port and
shore-leave, or a bullock for milk-bush in drought-
time. After leaving the city yesterday, we had a
delirious evening. Dinner at one club, and
drinks at many others, and supper at a place, or
places, unknown. The excess has done me a
world of good. But for it I would be incurably
melancholy to-day. You can get through a lot of
whisky in a fog. It has never hurt me yet, but
I’m beginning to think of my great, great grand-
children being constitutional teetotallers.
Had a dispute last night with two cubs who
left Australia when they were four months old, or
thereabouts, and now claim to represent Aus-
tralian opinion. They vapored Empire and
Eatronised my country until I sickened and left—
ut not silently—not silently ! —strange as the
statement may be. I am getting out of my old
habit of being dumb during an argument.
To-day, I really discovered London—that is, I
began to discover it.
London is in lat. !>o° 31' N., long. O' 10" W. It is
300 miles from Dublin and 397 from Edinburgh. I
mention this so that you may not lose the track
on the way here. There are millions festering
on 688 square miles. The poor are supposed to be
on the Surrey side, and in the East End, but they
are everywhere. There are 35 King-streets in
London, and 3000 ’buses and 15,000 cabs to take
you there.
There are a few big parks, where few except the
rich go, and many small squares where only the
well-to-do live. Soho Square, which is just at the
rear of our chambers, is very old, and as dirty as
any of the other squares. It doesn’t interest me
to know that in a house in the square lived the
Duke of Monmouth, son of Charles the Waster;
but it does interest me to know that a greater
man—Joseph Banks, of Captain Cook’s Botany
Bay voyage—lived there.
Strange how these people cling to things that
have outgrown their use, if they ever had any.
Kings and the House of Lords, and empty titles
they have, and names for places that have not
suited the places for two centuries. St. Martin’s-
in-the-Fields is surrounded by streets more or less
squalid. So is St. Giles’-in-the-Fields, which
formerly filled the position of a hospital. At this
place the condemned, on his way to Tyburn, took
his last drink. Shirley, the dramatic poet, is
buried in St. Giles ; so is the Countess of Shrews-
bury. This perfect lady held the horse of the
Duke of Buckingham while he killed her husband.
Near by is the church of St. George’s, Blooms-
bury, its steeple surmounted by an abortion in
stone —the statue of German George I.
When I do not take the “ tube ” railway to the
City, I walk thereto through the Seven Dials—a
place which has killed more men by disease than
it ever did by violence, except in a Surreyside
melodrama. Other days, from the Seven Dials
through Drury Lane to Fleet-street; or, along
Holborn, I go through Lincoln’s Inn, where Wil-
liam Russell was beheaded in 1683. They took
off his head because he had brains in it, and that
made him so conspicuous at Court that it became
a scandal.
In Holborn again, I find the Staples Inn, the
most picturesque building I’ve seen in England.
It was built in 1603; so, my dear old Bill, it was
there when you were in London. It must have
been either that, or you carry your age splendidly.
Dr. Johnson is said to have lived there in
1700 —but I don’t believe it. There were much
dirtier places on the Gray’s Inn Road side, and
Johnson was not a lazy man, and is certain to
have travelled the extra distance for the extra
dirt. Eligh Holborn Bridge, of 1867, is just a year
older than I am; so that you must have known
the Old Brownie —the ditch now covered in. And
over the road from Staples Inn is the Black Bull
—a pub. which hasn’t changed its sign for a
century, nor its barmaid either.
I wrote you earlier of the difference of the
nomenclatures of English and French and Italian
streets. Now, the Continental names hint at
romance. The names of the English streets
mostly hint at something to eat or drink or to be
beaten with. There are Bread Street and Milk
Street, and Honey Lane and Fetter Lane. The
Great Fire began at Pudding Lane and ended at
Pie Corner. St. Sepulchre’s Church, the lively
place of amusement whose bell clanged the con-
demned of Newgate to the gallows, and cheered
the waiting crowd in Newgate Street, is at Pie
Corner. In Newgate Street, too, is the Salutation
Tavern, which was opened in 1371. Judging by
the bad smells there, the present is the original
building.
Down by the Smithfield Meat Market, and at
St. Bartholomew’s Church is a tablet in memory
of those who were burned at the stake. Strange
that Smithfield has always been in the meat trade.
I took a walk without object, and found myself
at St. John’s Gate, Clerkenwell. It was originally
the monastery of the order of St. John—one of
those very temporal “religious” bodies which
used its charter to commit all sorts of excesses.
Wat Tyler burned the priory, and beheaded the
prior, who deserved it anyway. The priory,
according to “history,” was “seven days a-
buming.” If so', it must have been a very slow
fire. It was “burning ” for probably twelve hours,
and smoking for the other 156. All but the gate
was destroyed; and, during the burning, Richard,
the King, hid under the bed, Later on Dr. John-
son worked there for Cave) the publisher. The
Hanoverians, of course, had to have a hand in the
perpetuation as a living thing of this dead monu-
ment of a corrupt time. In 1893, Edward VII.
unveiled a memorial to Prince Eddy, who had
been made sub-prior of the order. “ Sub-prior of
the order ” ! ! and there was no order! The
idiocy of it all. Furthermore the records of the
gallant gentlemen of St, John state that un-
publishable offences were common. Good old
Wat Tyler 1 »
The County Council, in the face of Tory
opposition, is gradually making London tolerable
to live in. The Strand improvements are wiping
out a few theatres; among them the Globe and
the Gaiety. This is the home of all those London
Theatres which are not very modern. The
Lyceum, and the Adelphi, and that shocking
place, the Savoy, and the Covent Garden Opera
House, and Drury Lane are all within a radiusi of
a few hundred yards. On the opposite side of the
Strand, and almost in Fleet Street, is the letnple
Church, once the home of the Templars; now the
forcing house of lawyers. The Temple was
founded in 1185, and the helpless lamb of the
Templars is carven above the doors even of the
new building. Once it represented the Lamb ot
Q-od—now it is the symbol of the public who are
by the lawyers shorn. . . „ .
I saw Oliver Goldsmith’s grave in the Temple
Churchyard, and sat on his sunken tomb, and
smoked a pipe, and thought what a fine thing it
was to be alive, even in this fog. . ;
To be alive, ivhile alive, that is the. mam thing,
even if you’re foolishly alive. Excess is better than
the mediocrity of temperance, although the re-
spect always goes to temperance, without a
thought being given to its cause. I remember a
dog near Toowoomba (Queensland) who used to
chase trains and bark ; and the railway gangs
pelted him with rocks and begged him to observe
the sensible behavior of an old dog in the camp.
And that was just it. The old dog was old . ( The
world is always miscalling “ want of fire ‘ the
judicial manner.”
The people in the Strand are not much alive—
they work as if there were but one boon, night;
and a night as long as can be before morning
comes. „ , , ,
Several Days Later.— l have been haunting
the old churches whose wondrous names have much
fascination for me. But the climate seems to
break them up quickly, so that a 400-year-old
church has been altered and renewed out of all its
original shape. A church which calls itself “ St.
Bartholomew-the-Great-in-the-ward-of-Farring-
don-without ” (mind your hyphens) is near by the
place where Queen Mary burned the Protestants.
It is stated that before striking the safety on the
box she said, ‘ ‘ Methinks thou dost protest too
much.” A Protestant certainly is a terrible
nuisance on occasions. But so is a Baptist, and a
Catholic, and a Rechabite, and a Freetrader.
Anyway, Mary should have drawn the line at
children, but they went to the stake with the rest.
Yet many people style the first Revolution of
France, which did so much to punish oppression
and broaden the ways of liberty for us who now
are, un unexampled Terror. It is a greater crime
to forcibly cut a man’s nails in the name of Reli-
gion than it is to hang him in the name of Liberty.
The church of the priory of St. Mary Ovary (is
the possession of an obstetrical relic, as in the
case of that unnameable church in Rome, hinted
at here?) dates from 1540, although it was various
kinds of Gospel mill as far back as 1107. John
Fletcher, Philip Massinger, Fletcher, Henslowe,
and Edmund Shakespeare (brother of Bill) are
buried here. Are the English really in earnest
when they say they believe in the rights of kings ?
At any rate, they forget where the biggest of
these kings is buried, and remember always a
tenth-rate literary man like Dr. Johnson, who yet,
in comparison to a king, was as Shakespeare to
Fitzgibbon. And they remember, in books any-
way, where the smallest of their poets has his dust.
Oliver Cromwell married at St. Giles’, Cripple-
gate ; and Milton is buried there. So is a man
whose name is perhaps better known than Milton
—Foxe, author of the “ Book of Martyrs.”
Inigo Jones built St. Paul’s, Covent Garden, in
1551, and the tombs there include those of Butler,
the author of “Hudibras,” Wycherley, the
dramatist, Mrs. Centlivre, and Peter Lely, the
painter, and that bad prophet, Dr. Arne, who
wrote “ Britannia Rules the Waves.” Arne did
not foresee Pierpont Morgan. If he had, the
result would have been the same—in “ patriotic ”
songs or ‘ ‘ loyalist ” speeches fact and sense are in
the way.
Christopher Wren, when not engaged in chasing
the Government for his salary, built many
churches —which, with the houses of nobles and
the shops of tradesmen, represented nearly all the
building operations in his day. Building for the
masses as we know it to-day was unknown. Of
the Wren churches the best are 9t. Mary-le-Bow,
in Cheapside, St. Stephen’s, Walbrook, St.
Bride’s, Fleet-street (which holds the bones of
Richardson, author of “ Clarissa Harlowe ”), and
St. James’, Piccadilly. The last-named contains
the tombs of Tom D’TJrfey, the dramatist, and of
Mr. Akenside, a kind of poet.
St. Martin’s-in-the-Fields (mind the hyphens) is
the most useful of the lot. The old churchyard
and its graves have been filled in and raised Bft.
or so above the street, and there the children of
the streets around Charing Cross play when there
is no fog. The show things of St. Martin’s are an
old whipping-post, and stocks which stood in the
lower corner of Trafalgar Square, and the entry
of Lord Bacon’s birth in the parish register. For
the Shakespeare-Bacon controversy I have but
this to say—it is impossible that a titled man like
Bacon wrote the democratic sentiments of Shake-
speare ; there is not one instance on earth of a
man born to the purple approximating to the
genius that is only of the people. Generally
speaking, the man who is fit for a position is
never born to it—he must win it before it can fit
him. There is hope for me in this view. I shall
go to lunch and eat mightily.
Next Day. —l have not had time for the galleries
yet. I went as far as the Tate Gallery, which is
built on the site of old Millbank Prison, and at the
door I met a friend from Australia, and we went
away to an hotel, and drank whisky, and talked
of sunshine, and cursed the weather.
I am gradually becoming used to the swindle of
the tip habit; to the fog ; to the wonderful Eng-
lish spoken here; to the absence of daylight, and
the necessity of electric light the whole 24 hours
round ; and I am learning not to laugh at liveries.
I do not believe, though, that liveries are a
very long-lived habit. The motor car is becoming
very popular, and the chauffeur, being a skilled
mechanic, wears a plain leather suit, and will not
have a livery. So that the substitution for the
horse brougham of the motor carriage means that
the powdered coachman is replaced by the
chauffeur; and the footman, and all the rest of
the ridiculous circus will go too. Even the non-
doers haven’t the gall to connect a livery with an
electric motor.
But at present you can’t throw a brick in the
street without hitting a livery. At the theatres a
man in livery (not uniform) takes your ticket, and
at even fairly cheap clubs the waiters wear knee
breeches and powder.
Meantime, the American gets the ships, builds
the tramways, buys the Consols, and takes the
trade. The American deserves no better fate. He
should be punished for his energy and his foolish
Protectionist policy, which makes his nation the
richest on earth.
You know how Englishmen in Australia speak
of the “ Bank of England,” with an occasional
burst of humor, by styling it “The old lady of
Threadneedle-street.” The Bank of England’s
fame is another superstition. Neither by volume
of business nor reserve is it the first bank of Eng-
land. It has long since been distanced by some of
the younger banks, and is scarcely in the second
rank now, although it has almost a monopoly of
note-issue. Yet people pass the Bank buildings
and worship the bank, seeing its gorgeous beadle
in the court-yard, and an officer and 12 men of the
Royal Artillery come every night to guard the
bank, as if it were still in the early part of the
18th century, and there were no electric-light, and
no police force, and no burglar-alarms. The
officer and 12 men stay in the bank all night, and
each is paid and given his dinner; the officer
receiving a bottle of wine in addition. To abolish
that ridiculous beadle would be worse than a run
on the bank—so much do these people cling to
beadles, and god Mayor’s shows, and liveries,
and brass bands, and generally to circus exhibi-
tions. Meanwhile, the American takes the trade.
The Bank of England was founded in 1694 by a
Scotchman, William Paterson. He devised in
his will that no Scotchman should ever again be
a director of the bank. The bank is proud of that
foolishness also. The Scotchman of 1900 is a
different man to the Scot of 1700. If Scotchmen
were directors now, the bank might lose its
beadles.
I have not seen many of the palaces. St. James’
Palace is a dingy, low-down, red-bricked building,
and surely one of the ugliest on earth. It is built
on the site of St. James’ Hospital for lepers —nob
such a great change from a leper hospital to the
housing of a system which implies a mental
leprosy in the people who maintain it.
The best sight in the way of sites is the old site
of Whitehall Palace, where Charles I. lost his
head —for the last time.
Some of the statues in Trafalgar Square are in-
expressibly ugly. Napier and Havelock both are
shown with monkey shaves. The facts all point
to the belief that modern statues with our style of
modern fashionable dress—frock coat and pants —
only look ridiculous. Modern memorials should
stop at busts or bas-reliefs.
Queer also the ideas of proportion they show in
their monuments. The unnecessary Duke of York
is memorised by a column 120 ft. high. Yictoria’s
harmless uncle was so utterly unnecessary that
they probably gave him such a high pedestal to
guard against his being overlooked. J ohn
Franklin, who certainly attempted to do some-
thing, has a column 6ft. high. The Duke of York’s
column is a bad copy of the Napoleonic memorials
at Paris.
I go very little to the West End. Bond-street
is small, dirty and expensive. No. 14 in Old
Bond-street was occupied by Laurence Sterne,
and later by Boswell. To-day I walked from
Bond-street to Verrey’s and Jennings’—two half-
high-class, half-fast drinking houses, and found
at Jennings’ a place so full of women drinking and
talking loudly, that, for one of the few times in
my life, I felt really bashful.
I cannot become used to this habit of women
drinking in bars. They are equal in numbers
with the men. The habit is not confined to the
trollop—gilt-edged or otherwise; the great-bulk
of drinkers are married women and engaged girls.
They stew in poisoned back bars, in a worse fog
than that outside; or they go from pub. to pub.
with their husbands and lovers. Yet the. English
parson asks us to build the Australian nation after
the English model—and not to open our libraries
on Sundays, lest we be pursued by the awful
Nemesis of the Continental Sabbath. Is it the
Sunday in Paris—full of light and music, the
theatres open, all Paris drinking its light beer or
wine or its coffee in the cafes, and to every cafe
its orchestra ? Is it Sunday in Rome, or Lyons,
or Marseilles —with rarely the sight of a drunken
man, and never of a drunken woman? Bring
along the Continental Sunday to Australia by all
means—without its habit of seven days a week
work, though. And even seven-days-a-week-work
is not so lowering as the “ play ”of the Londoner
of Stepney and Soho.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
The Bush Wooer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He mostly comes after tea, hitches his horse to
the split-rail fence, and makes his way round to
the kitchen. The dogs know him, and greet him
with wagging tails, convoying him to the back
door, where he sits on his heels, pulls out his
pocket-knife, and whiles away time by paring the
corns off his toil-worn hands. She comes out with
an empty bucket, and pretends to be surprised at
seeing him.
“ Oh !is that you, Bill ? ”
Bill says “Ya’as, what’s left of me,” and,
slowly upending himself,. takes a look about and
follows her into the kitchen. He sits down on
the nearest stool, places his hat carefully under it,
and gazes violently at his boots, varying the pro-
ceedings by occasionally spitting into the yawn-
ing fireplace. She sits on the far side of the room
with her hands lying one on the other in her lap.
After a lapse of about ten minutes he opens the
conversation :
“Bin pretty hot ter-day?”
“ Middlin’,” she replies.
Another long silence.
“Goin’ter start strippin’ter-morrer,” he says.
“Really, yer crops come in early ’’—from her.
The clock ticks on for 15 minutes.
“ Th’ rabbits is pretty bad,” he remarks.
“ Ya’as, there’s a good many about.”
“ Poisonin’ ?” he queries.
“ Not yet; goin’ ter start next week.”
After this outburst nothing is said for 10
minutes.
“Black Dankin’s mare died last night,” she
says.
“Yer don’t say so; which ’un ? ” exclaims Bill.
“ Th’ grey mare he useter drive in th’ sulky.”
“ Foalin’ ? ”
“Foalin’.”
More silence, during which Bill shifts uneasily
on the stool.
“Goin’ ter th’ darnce at Deegan’s, Friday
night ? ” queries Bill.
“Nobuddy axed me,” she says.
“If I axes yer?” says Bill, bravely.
“ I’ll go,” she says.
About 15 minutes elapse.
“ Jack Canty come home yisterday,” he says.
“Oh, did he?” she replies.
Ten minutes pass ; then Bill stoops and gets
out his hat.
“ Time ter skedaddle,” he remarks, standing up.
“Goin’?” she says.
“Goin’,” he.replies, walking to the back door.
She follows him and they stand at the door for
10 minutes in silence.
“Must be gettin’ late,” he says.
“ Must be,” she replies.
Another short silence.
“ Good night, Polly,” he says.
“Good night, Bill,” she says, and shuts the
door as he walks away to get his horse to ride
home.
BOB R.


Doan’s Reports Investigated.
No Return of Illness for Three Years*
El
111
i
%
m,
Patient : “ The pain is in the small of the back, Doctor.
Doctor: “Ah! That's kidney trouble.”
We are answering to-
day a very important
question, viz., Do the
people who say they have
been cured by Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills
stay cured ?
A medicine which
cui’es merely for a day or
a week is worthless, it is
only a tonic, or a purga-
tive.
But a medicine which
drives the illness away,
so that it stays away,
that medicine does all
medicine can do.
We have been verify-
ing our earlier published
cases, and we are pleased
to say the result of our
investigations has been
most gratifying.
THE CURES BY
DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS ARE
PERMANENT
CURES.
If there be any among
those cases which we have
before published, whose
illness has returned, and
whose cure is not perma-
nent, we .shall be glad if
they will write us about
it.
Mr. P. Smith, 1 Cheltenham-street, Balmain, this city, says:—“Over twelve
months ago I used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for kidney trouble, and
they worked a miracle in my case. I had been under three doctors at
different times, but their treatment did me no good. I used to be so bad
that I would have to be carried home in a cart if an attack came on when
working in the street. Sometimes when walking, I have had a bad attack,
and would be taken to the hospital. My wife said she never thought I would
live through some of these bad turns. I suffered with a kind of bilious-
ness, vomiting egg-like stuff. My secretions were in a frightful state. I
could never bend my back or move at all when I had a bad turn. The
people at the hospital gave me medicines, and recommended rubbing in lini-
ments, but it was no use; they did not benefit me. I saw an advertise-
ment for DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, stating that these Pills
had cured Mr. Dunn, and knowing him led me to procure this remedy. I only
took one box of DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNE Y PILLS, and they cured me.
The first dose relieved me. When I had finished them, I started work, and
have worked ever since. It is heavy work lam doing, but it does not affect
me. These Pills cured me after years of suffering, and the relief was almost
instantaneous. I might state that since then I have had a bad attack of lumbago,
which laid me up for one month. I never thought that DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS were good for this complaint. Then I remembered that I had
a few in the box, and not having any other medicine in the house I tried them.
They cured me.”
Mrs. Smith states later on Three years ago my husband gave testimony
regarding DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS. He has had wonderful
health since he used that remedy ; in fact, never having had a sign of the ailment
return. Some time ago he was lifting a heavy weight and wrenched his back.
He obtained a box of DOAN’S PILLS, and they rid him of his agony. I am
firmly convinced he owes his life to DOAN’S PILLS, for he could not have stood
the pain he used to suffer before he used these pills. I never saw anybody in such
agony. He has never missed a day at his work since he used DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS four years or more ago.”
Why Doan’s Cures are Lasting. The cures effected by Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills are lasting cures, because this medicine only claims to do one thing, viz., to cure
Kidney and Bladder diseases and attendant ills.
They are not a nerve tonic or purgative, which brace the system for the time only, and
which claim to cure every disease. DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS have no
action on the bowels at all. And a third reason is they relieve the clogged condition of
the kidneys, helping them to flush from the system the uric acid and other poisons which
the kidneys filter from the blood. These poisons cause most diseases.
We do not ask you merely to believe our claims, but we do ask you to place confi-
dence in the word of fellow-citizens, or at least to verify their statements for yourselves.
Doan’s Backache Kidney pills
May be had of Chemists and Stores at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes,
15s. 3d.), or will be posted, on receipt of price, by Foster-McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DOAN’S.
A Martyr to Itching' Piles.
For Over Twenty Years. Perfectly Cured
by Two Pots of Doan’s Ointment.
Mr. M. J. Ryan, J.P., a well-known resident
of Sydney, living at 398 Riley-st., writes the
following unsolicited letter for the benefit of
suffering humanity. He says : —“ It gives me
great pleasure to testify to the great worth of
Doan’s Ointment. I have been a martyr for
over 20 years to the dreadful disease of Itching
Piles, which very often nearly drove me mad.
I may tell you that during all those years I
have never had one good night’s rest. I tried
scores of doctors, both in Sydney and in the
country. I have tried lotions and ointments,
and I might as well have used water for all the
good they did me. lam sanding you this tes-
timonial so that you may use it in the interest
of my fellow creatures, as I am sure
there are hundreds of them suffering
the same as I did. Now, I may state
that two months ago I heard a gen-
tleman telling another of his terrible suf-
ferings, and how he got cured by Doan’s Oint-
ment. I at once purchased a pot, and lam
proud to say that from that very night I have
slept sound, and without being tortured, for
the first time in twenty years. I continued
the treatment, and before I had used two pots
I found myself entirely cured. This is two
months ago, and I have had no return of my
complaint since. I would willingly have paid
£5O to any doctor if he had guaranteed to do
what Doan’s Ointment did forme. You may
publish this statement in any paper, and
should anyone wish to call on me or write I
will be pleased to tell them of my cure in
detail.”
It cannot be repeated too often that
Doan’s Ointment will cure itching- niles TT
WILL CURE THEM ABSOLUTELY.
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all chemists and
storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per pot/ or will be
posted on receipt of price by Foster M'Clellan
Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
But, be sure it is DOAN’S.
Two Singers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There comes to me in solitude,
When nights are still and planets bright,
And only starlit thoughts intrude
The memory of a scented night.
They stood, set round with light and flower,
Two singing women, bright and brave,
And each with lovely, lyric power
Drowned soul and sense in music’s wave.
Their thrilling voices pulsed the air
And floated high like shining birds ;
And each was like a spirit fair
That calls from Heaven in haunting words.
And they were charged with wondrous charm,
A charm of gold and silver chimes,
That filled the blood with wild alarm,
Like kisses or melodious rhymes.
And they had power to lift the heart
And soothe the soul with magic ease ;
O Women, with red lips apart,
Whence gathered ye such melodies ?
None might discern, who heard them sing,
Which voice in sweeter measure ran,
Since each seemed, sure, the sweetest thing
That ever charmed the soul of man.
.Thereafter Fate, gift-laden, came
And sought the singing Two, and said
That they might choose the gift of Fame,
Or choose the Quiet Life instead.
And thus, and thus the women chose,
And silence reigned a little time—
Till, suddenly, in far lands rose
A fair, familiar, golden chime.
Her voice it was—the voice that stings
The blood with leaping, liquid fire ;
Men say that when this woman sings
Their hearts run molten with desire.
Queens judged their crowns a tinsel lot
Beside her starry diadem ;
And spell-bound Caesars, charmed, forgot
The doom for ever fronting them.
Pearls shone around her throat; her head,
With rubies red, was fair to see;
Her magic tide of music spread
Like many waters, wondrously.
Her voice the second singer lifts
No more in mad, melodious strife;
When Fate held out her varied gifts
She said : “Give me the Quiet Life.”
And with the Quiet Life came love
And home and all a home’s delight;
But, still, when stars burn red above
In some low-bending Queensland night,
A flower of Tropic song unfolds,
A rose that glows to ravish all;
What matter that its magic holds
No host of hearts in golden thrall.
That clarion voice rings rich and true
As gold kept pure of all alloys ;
And while she sings, in two and two,
Draw nigh the dark -eyed Island boys.
Ah ! this I know—larks singing clear,
Peace giving pause to groaning pain,
And love exulting, make me hear
Those singing women sing again.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Mortgage.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is not an imagined sketch, written in the
interval between drinks, but a bald, sober narra-
tion of the history of one family. That family is a
type of thousands that are “ on the land ” to-day.
Mason looked back over the slip-rails at 25 years
of toil, a never-ending procession of seasons, with
streaks of good fortune dimly visible here and
there. A flaring red ball on the horizon suggested
to-morrow’s furnace, and mosquitoes sang dirges
in the dry air around him. He killed an odd one
casually, and called to Jack, his youngest, to light
some cow-dung. But there were things stinging
Mason’s heart that no smoke could scare away.
“What use! what use! still mortgaged—and
that sun ! curse him ! ”
Another of the boys emerged from a cloud of
dust and said stolidly ‘ ‘ Twenty more. ” That left
100 out of the 2000 sheep he had begun the year
with. For the past month ha had been feeding
them on chaff, and a mental calculation assured
him that it would have been cheaper to
have brained the whole lot at the start. The
miserable skeleton remnant, with the jagged
ends of falling wool hanging from them,
seemed to him a sinister reminder of the fate in
store for humanity, and when one fell into the
trough and lay quietly drowning, he wondered if,
after all, sheep were not wiser than men thought.
He pulled it out and it lay down. The horses,
whose allowance had been shortened to save the
sheep, looked hungrily out of the bare home pad-
dock at a patch of green barley nearly half-an-inch
• long in November, and dusty cows chewed rags
.-■and bones around the milking-yard.
Twenty-five years ago he had started on his 640-
acre lot, with the help of a mortgage. There was
timber on it then, grass in plenty. Now there
was on it principally the Masons—and a mort-
gage.
The mortgage had gone through various vicissi-
tudes. It had swelled, and shrunk and swelled
again. It aemed like a bloated brewer under-
going fitful treatment from Anti-fat, and it varied
inversely with all other things. In the lean
years it prospered, and its greasy presence was more
objectionable than that of a family ghost. In the
fat years it shrunk away, but never quite disap-
peared ; and now, day after day, its hated, oily,
smiling, full-moon face was ever close to Mason’s
its podgy, bejewelled hand extended in-token of
friendship.
Out in the dim grey light of the winter morn-
ing, digging the frozen grease out of a jam-tin
with a stick, handling ice-cold trace-chains,
tramping throiigh the dull days, mud-spattered
trom head to foot, ploughing, sowing, harrowing,
till his brain seemed to have fallen into disuse
through the absence of any call on it, this had
been a part of his 25-year sentence." Or grubbing
stumps with never-ending roots, cutting tussocks,
burmng-off, digging rabbit-burrows, cutting and
splitting timber-fencing, through all varieties of
weather. Or harvesting in the hell of summer
suns, in the whirl of dust and chaff, blinded with
perspiration and blackened with the grease of
machinery. Or when fighting a bush-fire, he had
whirled gum-boughs, like a fiend seven times
damned flogging perjured souls. All this for the
mortgage. His master never let him out of sight
du rmg the whole of that 25 years’ slavery.
I here were six children. The eldest of the
three boys was 21, and had been in a train twice
in his life. Since the age of 12 he had been along-
side his father doing a man’s work, proudly at
* r’j '?ir as a matter of duty, and now with a
U U “difference begotten of the awful monotony.
He had been a brainy lad—the local school-teacher
had entered him for a scholarship, and he had
come out third on the list of 25. But just at that
time the mortgage was bloating itself with over-
indulgence, and Mason couldn’t afford the
necessary money to give the boy a pro-
fession. So he milked the dusty cows with the
air of a sullen convict, and at intervals, after a
ounday visit to Jones’s girl, hinted feebly at the
old man giving him a start.” But the mortgage
said distinctly “No” ; and another slave trudged
this way and that at his behest.
lhere were two girls also, good, homely lasses
with an indiscreet longing for accomplishments,
fostered by perusal of the journals. But always
when the purchase of a piano seemed imminent, a
lean year came and the music was a blend of dying
bleats and crow-caws, and the piano money went
in chaff, and another three years of existence
loomed ahead, in which nothing might be done
but drudgery—nothing but stolid tramping at the
heels of the mortgage.
. So Mason and his echo, Mrs. Mason, with their
six children, live to-day, bond-slaves to a set of
blue papers, toilers in a dull country, working at
a rate that in ten years should make man inde-
pendent, if there were justice on earth. So the
other farming families around live. And their
only solace is that at election time the legislators
and press speak of the farmer as the “ backbone
of the country,” and a person who is pursuing
Australia’s great natural industry. At present
there isn’t much sign of anything but backbone.
VIC.
L.M.D.
The. Good Old Days of “The
System.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Prison life in N.S. Wales in the ’2o’s was a very
different thing from what it is now. The “pub-
lished by authority” paper of that day thus
describes one phase of it
On Friday last a most disgusting 1 spectacle was wit-
nessed in Sydney gaol. The prisoners concerned in the
transaction must either have been in a state of actual
starvation or they must be completely brutalised by
crime—bereft of every human feeling. We have been
informed that a set of them got hold of an old dog that
had been for years in and about the prison—killed-
boiled—and devoured him !! ! The Sheriff, we under-
stand, has recently ordered their allowance, bread and
water, to be increased half a pound a day, each man.
Brisbane was Governor at the time, and, “ shocked
beyond measure ” at the disclosure, he ordered an
inquiry by a commission of three, composed of two
magistrates and the sheriff, to be made into the
condition and conduct of the gaol. Among other
things the commission reported :
The buildings within the gaol are in a very dilapidated
state. The wards and cells are filthy and neglected
and several persons, including the gaoler, deputy
gaoler, and others employed in the gaol, per-
form their duties in a very negligent and careless
manner. . . . The food at present allowed is insufficient •
it may support life, but cannot long keep the prisoners
in good health ; and we beg leave to recommend an
increase—namely, that each prisoner may have Mb. maize
meal prepared for breakfast, and lib. bread and a quart
of vegetable soup for dinner. . . . There is no regular
allowance of clothing, very few of the prisoners having
sufficient to cover them, and many of them being
nearly naked. . . The accommodation is very in-
different. The first room measures 32ft. by 22ft
and contains 68 persons, who all sleep on the
floor, which _is boarded. The second floor is of the
same dimensions. It contains 67 prisoners, has a flagged
floor, with sleeping benches for 35 prisoners only “the
others sleep on the stone floor. The third room measures
26ft. x 24ft., stone floor ; contains 50 prisoners ; sleeping
benches for 35 only. There are six cells, but none of
them contains any beds or bedding, and there are only
five blankets for the various prisoners confined therein.
On 29th June, 1822 (three years previously) it appears 30
blankets were given to the gaoler for the use
of the prisoners, and these are now reduced to
five, with two or three pieces. ... We regret
to find that many persons are improperly confined
m the gaol . . and we respectfully propose for your Ex-
cellency’s consideration that the present gaoler and
deputy-gaoler should be removed from their situations
and more efficient persons appointed.
Amendment followed. Shortly after the presen-
tation of the report an order was issued from the
Commissariat Department fixing the gaol allow-
ance at lib. of bread of wheaten meal, |lb. maize
4oz. fresh meat or 2|oz. salt meat, and £lb. vege-
tables per day—a discretionary power being
vested in the new gaoler of withholding the
allowance and substituting bread and water in
case of misconduct on the part of any of the
prisoners.
Be country auditors. Home-Secretary
Foxton (Q.) told a story recently, of a man elected
. as municipal auditor in a country town who could
only just sign his name but couldn’t add up a
column of figures. Foxton shouldn’t mention
such things. The Q. Government, some few years
ago, appointed more than one J.P. who had to
sign his name with a cross.
A travelling correspondent writes from
Auckland (M.L.): —
The town is built on top of a series of extinct volcanoes,
which must have been the centre of widespread activity
at one time. From the top of Mt. Eden one gets a
glorious view of no less than 32 extinct volcanoes, includ-
in# old Rangitoto with its one big and two little peaks
frowning darkly in the distance. Queen-st., the chief
thoroughfare, itself runs through an old crater, the
Herald office standing in the very centre. There is
grim irony in the fact that the crater which once threw
out fire and brimstone, now emits nothing better than
Jingo claptrap and denunciation of everything demo-
cratic. One of the craters of Mt. Eden has been turned
into a reservoir, which strikes one as a pretty sublime
sort of cheek. The district around has a novel and
picturesque appearance, with black, sponge-like scoria
everywhere. Houses, roads and fences—all are built of it
Although the inhabitants consider - that as long as
Rotorua, about 40 miles away, keeps on the fizzle, they’ve
got a reliable safety valve, there is evidence that the
place has been through at least two periods of eruption
with a long interval dividing them. I know a man who
bored for water some years ago, and went through two
separate layers of lava, with clay sandwiched between.
As this clay takes ages to form, and another layer now
exists, it looks as though Auckland may yet hope to go
skywards and take the reservoir and the Herald with it.


Reduced to a Shadow
Could Hardly Walk. Dootors Said Slow Recovery. Disapr'nted
* Doctors and Myself by Getting Well Quickly,
&
r
//
Mr. ffm. B. Mackie, of Dunedin, New
Zealand, sends us his photograph and
says:
“Not long ago I was run over by a
wagon and severely injured. For weeks
I was confined to my bed. I was reduced
to a mere shadow, so weak I could hardly
walk. The doctors told me it would be a
long time before I could regain my health.
I felt I could not wait, so procured a
bottle of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. You can-
not imagine how quickly my health and
strength began to return. The first day
I felt an improvement. In a week I had
a better appetite, and was much stronger.
And only a few bottles wrought a most
marvelous change in me. I like your
medicine especially because it seems to
give just the aid nature sometimes
needs.”
r “The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
If you have been sick and are not recovering rapidly, just try a bottle of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It is the strongest tonic you can buy, and it aids nature
wonderfully. The better way is to take the Sarsaparilla before you get really
ill. Take it wben you first begin to feel poorly. It will cure you quickly
then and save you much suffering and large expense. Yet even wben you are
sick, you cannot find a better medicine.
There are many so-called Sarsaparillas. Be sure you get Ayer’s, the oldest,
strongest, and best Sarsaparilla. Don’t experiment with imitations.
AYER’S § arsaparilla
Gives Strength to the Weak, Courage to the Depressed
Ayer’s Pills cure constipation, biliousness, sick-headache, coated tongue
Prepared by SB. J. C. AYES & CO., Lowell, Mbbb., U. S. A.
THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK; Price, 4s. 6d
A Handsome Cloth-bound Volume of over 300 pages. The best
collection of Short Stories and Literary Sketches yet produced in
Australia. Price, 4s. 6d., postage 6d. Wholesale: Edwards,
Dunlop and Co.
LIST OF contents. Postage 6d
At Y arrawong a
His Hair
Strawberry : A Love Story
The Patient’s Hand-8e11...
The Correspondence of a
Little Dressmaker
A Martyr of No Account...
Nick Yedder’s Gold
Products
An Error in Administration
A Bridal Party and a Dog
Broken China
The Dispersion of Mrs.
Black
White-When - He’s-Wanted
The Tramp
The Man who saw a Moa ...
From the Log of the Out-
ward Bound
On Our Selection
A Box of Dead Roses
A Stripe for Trooper Casey
Swamp-Swallowed
Bailifes I Have Met
Three Cups of Tea
Silhouettes : My Horse ...
Hanging and Hell
The School at Sergeant’s
The Burial Service of a
Musician
Selling Scripture Texts...
“ Colonial Experience”...
The Perryman
Barmy Barker’s Boots ...
The Benefit of Clergy ...
F. S. Delmer
Mabel Holmes
J. J. Poynton
F.M. W.G.
Maud Light
C. H. So it ter
A. Conway.
A. JRose-Soley
A. C. M‘Cay
“ Omega ”
‘ ‘ Hol y a ”
“Robin Studholme ”
A. B. Paterson
Barbara Baynton
“ Weka ”
J. H. Greene
Arthur H. Davis
Ethel Mills
Baderie Quinn
Alex. Montgomery
Victor J. Daley
F. Rollett
“A. Ghee ”
Phil. Mowbray
‘ ‘ Ponte ”
“ mcg:\
“ Boiling Billy ”
J.P.
L. De Bakker
E. S. Sorenson
Alex. Allen
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
CONJURING
APPARATUS
Price List of Tricks—Free.
PLAYS ZT~~
French’s Acting Edition.
Rare Books
French Novels
Books Married
Extra Special Catalogue of
Eoohs Free.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any
Colony taken.
WILL ANDRADE,
BOOK and MAGIC ARCADE .
201 Bourke Street, Melbourne
I
Consults K»y Letter, £l.
41 COIiZiINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Medicines (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the Basb
THE BROWN-SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
gEECHAMS
piLLS.
You will not have far to go before finding a friend, acquaintance, or neighbor
who can tell you from personal experience that BEECHAM’S PILLS are
the most efficacious medicine yet known for the cure of all forms of
Indigestion, Bilious Disorders,
Sick Headache, Poorness of Blood,
Nervous Debility & General Want of Tone
Such unquestionable testimony can be obtained by almost any-
one anywhere. Those who have taken BEECH AIT S PILLS
have realised the immense benefits derived from their use,
and have recommended them to their friends.
But notwithstanding the gigantic sale of over SIX MILLION
BOXES PER ANNUfI, there are still thousands of sufferers
who are spoiling their lives, and possibly ruining their health,
with experiments, while the old-establish remedy, BEECHAM S
PILLS, remains still untried.
Sold Everywhere in Boxes, price 1/1| (56 Pills) and 2/9 (168 Pills).
HONAi snoA aoph3 ooA <r iaiOH <SX'ESESO'3
George and Market Sts.)
SYDNEY.
APAKTMENTS:
BEDROOM (single), 3s. per DAY.
BEDROOM (double), 6s. per DAY.
Single Room, with Full Board, Bs. per
day, or JB2 2s. per week.
TERMS.—The convenient
system of paying for the
room on arrival and
meals as they are had
When you come fco Roberts’ Hotel
Dining Rooms ; and you not only
enjoy it, but it does you good as
well. There is always a large and
tempting variety of excellent food on
our menu, and on Fridays there is a
special fish luncheon for those who
want it in addition to the ordinary.
The luncheon is ready at twelve
o’clock sharp—from Is. —and there
is first-class attendance. Dinner and
tea from 5.30 to 7.30 —from Is.
upwards. Silver grill at work.
DON’T MISS THIS
OPPORTUNITY, if you are suffering with WEAKENING,
NERVOUS, aid DEBILITATING Diseases. Our CON-
CENTRATED BOTANIC REMEDIES will CURE YOU.
So CONFIDENT are we of this that we will send to any
sufferer a TRIAL COURSE (Free of Charge) and abide
by the RESULT. Send NOW and your ultimate CURE
is CERTAIN. Address—
BOTANIC INSTITUTE,
Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
rs
fQ)
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
N FT &
IRISH HO 5S
■saSfi^^Gb
||Pp£jf|P
o€ORQe'’b!)h"-.nGTOH v
v »BKaipS^;'A'ijqj^*
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION,


SIDNEY
Rubber Works
MANUFACTURERS OF
Sheet Rubber,
Washers,
Valves,
Gas Tubing,
Rubber Rings,
Rollers,
Buffers,
anci Every Description of
Mechanical Rubber Goods.
Works:
CAREY STREET, off Birkenhead Road.
City Office:
PERDRSAU & CO.
270 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Biiltf
WE SHIP ON APPROVAL
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles. Fully warranted.
test £2.10t0£;5.5.0
Dunlop Tyres, Steel or Wood Rims.
'■ Wheels, Mud Guards and Brakes.
odels
Junl
Free
CARRIAGE PAID
To any Tort in Australasia
TYRES, ACCESSORIES,
Sporting Goods and Sewing
Machines Half Usual Prices.
Write for Catalogue and Special Oiler
17c,„„ ... Dept 31811
Using aid. Stamp. Address
Mead Cycle Co. “T
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. o. ELDEIDGE & CO
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOEiE Si’EB.JLT, aYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
att/’uil.ed to.
SIMPSON BROTHERS
(Sole Australasian Representatives)
WORTHINGTON
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
r- •.
For all Services kept in Stock.
Send, for Catalogue.
Large
Stocks
CARRIED BY
BENNIE,
TEARE,
&CO.
GENUINE
BALATA
BELTING
AT
Sydney,
Melbourne,
Perth,
Coolgardie,
■ ■ ■
Sole Australian
Representatives
TANGYES
LIMITED.
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL' DO EYERyTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s back as long - as required, It will NOT injure the wool. It will dissolve out under
the ordinary scouring process.
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
FEtTfln, BRUMMIE * E 0„ IEEIME.
CK, R fJJ), and BLTJE (in 8-gallon
PRICE IN MELBOURNE
„ SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.) M
BRISBANE (E, Rich & Co., Ltd.) »
„ HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.)
Gallon
-gt/-
per
-a=/-
4/-
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
As well as Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers,
H
HAVE IKT c^oriTT
All Kinds of Engineers’Fittings and Supplies
Shafting
Hangers
Plummer I
uouars
Couplings
Drills
r- "i y\,
Reamers
Wrenches
Valves Valves Valves Valves
Oster Stocks and Dies and Taps, Crane Hinged Pipe Vyces, Emery
Wheels and Grinders, all kinds of Lubricators, Starrett Fine
Mechanical Tools, etc., etc., etc.
write for Prices to 60 Clarence-st.. Sydney. N.S.W.
Sufferers from Deafness or Head Noises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to The L. E. VEBNON CO.
fiO JfUNTER ST., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet describing an entirely new self-
applied method which we will send post
free on mentioning this paper.
H. P. GREGOR!) S GO.
Machinery Merchants,
Melbourne & Sydney.
HAVE IN STOOK-
Blake’s Steam Pumps.
Fay’s Woodworking Machinery,
Mundy’s Hoisting Engines-
Empire Oo.s Laundry Machinery*
American “ All Steel ” Pulleys-
Harris Champion ” Lubricating Oils.
Mason Eeducing Valves-
Ludlow Sluice Valves-
Kortings Injectors and Ejectors-
Tanite Emery Wheels.
Skins Soft&White
I BY USING
sa?
W
m
o'*
ki'l
Health vM'S'D?
Complexions Preserved.
BOOKS
FRENCH,
ENGLISH,
GERMAN,
2/-
Largest Catalogue, with
Specimen Photo. Apply
Box 116 Paris.
RAND DRILL CO.,
NEW YORK.
Manufacturers of
AIR COMPRESSORS
of New and Improved Design.
LITTLE GIANT & SLUCGER ROCK DRILLS
Stocks kept by
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
Sole Agents, 71 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10US.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FUBNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
üblic and
•rivate Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets anti
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Gable Trams: Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from 2 Guineas per Week.
